# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Radio Link Control protocol for the UE-
UTRAN radio interface.
Features for the current Release:
\- Transparent mode.
\- Unacknowledged mode.
\- Acknowledged mode.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 25.401: \"UTRAN Overall Description\".
[2] 3GPP TR 25.990: \"Vocabulary for UTRAN\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.301: \"Radio Interface Protocol Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.302: \"Services provided by the Physical Layer\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.303: \"Interlayer procedures in Connected Mode\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.304: \"UE Procedures in Idle Mode and Procedures for Cell
Reselection in Connected Mode\".
[7] 3GPP TS 25.321: \"Medium Access Control (MAC); protocol specification\".
[8] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC); protocol specification\".
[9] 3GPP TS 33.102: \"3G security; Security architecture\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
[2] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AM Acknowledged Mode
AMD Acknowledged Mode Data
ARQ Automatic Repeat Request
BCCH Broadcast Control CHannel
BCH Broadcast CHannel
C- Control-
CCCH Common Control CHannel
CCH Control CHannel
CCTrCH Coded Composite Transport CHannel
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
CTCH Common Traffic CHannel
DCCH Dedicated Control CHannel
DCH Dedicated CHannel
DL DownLink
DSCH Downlink Shared CHannel
DTCH Dedicated Traffic CHannel
FACH Forward link Access CHannel
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
L1 Layer 1 (physical layer)
L2 Layer 2 (data link layer)
L3 Layer 3 (network layer)
LI Length Indicator
LSB Least Significant Bit
MAC Medium Access Control
MBMS Multmedia Broadcast Multicast Service
MCCH MBMS point-to-multipoint Control CHannel
MRW Move Receiving Window
MSB Most Significant Bit
MSCH MBMS point-to-multipoint Scheduling CHannel
MTCH MBMS point-to-multipoint Traffic CHannel
PCCH Paging Control CHannel
PCH Paging CHannel
PDU Protocol Data Unit
PHY PHYsical layer
PhyCH Physical CHannels
RACH Random Access CHannel
RLC Radio Link Control
RRC Radio Resource Control
SAP Service Access Point
SDU Service Data Unit
SHCCH SHared channel Control CHannel
SN Sequence Number
SUFI SUper FIeld
TCH Traffic CHannel
TDD Time Division Duplex
TFI Transport Format Indicator
TM Transparent Mode
TMD Transparent Mode Data
TTI Transmission Time Interval
U- User-
UE User Equipment
UL UpLink
UM Unacknowledged Mode
UMD Unacknowledged Mode Data
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 General
## 4.1 Objective
This subclause describes the architecture of the RLC sublayer.
## 4.2 Overview of the RLC sublayer architecture
The model presented in this subclause is intended to support the definition of
the RLC sublayer only, and is not meant to specify or constrain the
implementation of the protocol. The RLC sublayer consists of RLC entities, of
which there are three types: Transparent Mode (TM), Unacknowledged Mode (UM),
and Acknowledged Mode (AM) RLC entities.
### 4.2.1 Model of the RLC sublayer
Figure 4.1 illustrates different RLC entities in the RLC model.
An UM and a TM RLC entity can be configured to be a transmitting RLC entity or
a receiving RLC entity. The transmitting RLC entity transmits RLC PDUs and the
receiving RLC entity receives RLC PDUs. An AM RLC entity consists of a
transmitting side, and a receiving side, where the transmitting side of the AM
RLC entity transmits RLC PDUs and the receiving side of the AM RLC entity
receives RLC PDUs.
Elementary procedures (see clause 11) are defined between a \"Sender\" and a
\"Receiver\". In UM and TM, the transmitting RLC entity acts as a Sender and
the peer RLC entity acts as a Receiver. An AM RLC entity acts either as a
Sender or as a Receiver depending on the elementary procedure. The Sender is
the transmitter of AMD PDUs and the Receiver is the receiver of AMD PDUs. A
Sender or a Receiver can reside at either the UE or the UTRAN.
There is one transmitting and one receiving RLC entity for each transparent
mode (TM) and unacknowledged mode (UM) service. There is one combined,
transmitting and receiving entity for the acknowledged mode (AM) service.
In the present document, \"transmitted\" is equivalent to \"submitted to the
lower layer\" unless otherwise explicitly stated. Each RLC UM, and TM entity
uses one logical channel to send or receive data PDUs. An AM RLC entity can be
configured to use one or two logical channels to send or receive data and
control PDUs. If two logical channels are configured, they are of the same
type (DCCH or DTCH). In figure 4.1, the dashed lines between the AM-Entities
illustrate the possibility to send and receive RLC PDUs on separate logical
channels, e.g. control PDUs on one and data PDUs on the other. A more detailed
description of the different entities is given in subclauses 4.2.1.1, 4.2.1.2
and 4.2.1.3.
Figure 4.1: Overview model of the RLC sublayer
#### 4.2.1.1 Transparent mode (TM) RLC entities
Figure 4.2 below shows the model of two transparent mode peer RLC entities.
The logical channels used to communicate with the lower layer are described in
the figure below.
Figure 4.2: Model of two transparent mode peer entities
##### 4.2.1.1.1 Transmitting TM RLC entity
The transmitting TM-RLC entity receives RLC SDUs from upper layers through the
TM-SAP.
All received RLC SDUs must be of a length that is a multiple of one of the
valid TMD PDU lengths.
If segmentation has been configured by upper layers and a RLC SDU is larger
than the TMD PDU size used by the lower layer for that TTI, the transmitting
TM RLC entity segments RLC SDUs to fit the TMD PDUs size without adding RLC
headers. All the TMD PDUs carrying one RLC SDU are sent in the same TTI, and
no segment from another RLC SDU are sent in this TTI.
If segmentation has not been configured by upper layers, then more than one
RLC SDU can be sent in one TTI by placing one RLC SDU in one TMD PDU. All TMD
PDUs in one TTI must be of equal length.
When the processing of a RLC SDU is complete, the resulting one or more TMD
PDU(s) are/is submitted to the lower layer through either a BCCH, DCCH, PCCH,
CCCH, SHCCH or a DTCH logical channel.
##### 4.2.1.1.2 Receiving TM RLC entity
The receiving TM-RLC entity receives TMD PDUs through the configured logical
channels from the lower layer. If segmentation is configured by upper layers,
all TMD PDUs received within one TTI are reassembled to form the RLC SDU.
If segmentation is not configured by upper layers, each TMD PDU is treated as
a RLC SDU.
The receiving TM RLC entity delivers RLC SDUs to upper layers through the TM-
SAP.
#### 4.2.1.2 Unacknowledged mode (UM) RLC entities
Figure 4.3 below shows the model of two unacknowledged mode peer RLC entities
when duplicate avoidance and reordering is not configured. The different
functions shown in Figure 4.3 below apply to different logical channel types
as described in subclause 6.1.
Figure 4.3: Model of two unacknowledged mode peer entities configured for use
without duplicate avoidance and reordering
Figure 4.3a below shows the model of two unacknowledged mode peer RLC entities
configured for duplicate avoidance and reordering. Because duplicate avoidance
and reordering is only specified for MTCH/CCCH in this release, ciphering/
deciphering is omitted.
Figure 4.3a: Model of two unacknowledged mode peer entities configured for use
with duplicate avoidance and reordering
##### 4.2.1.2.1 Transmitting UM RLC entity
The transmitting UM-RLC entity receives RLC SDUs from upper layers through the
UM-SAP.
The transmitting UM RLC entity segments the RLC SDU into UMD PDUs of
appropriate size, if the RLC SDU is larger than the length of available space
in the UMD PDU. The size of the UMD PDUs after segmentation and/or
concatenation shall be smaller than or equal to the largest UL UMD PDU size.
If MAC-i/is has been configured and the RLC PDU size is set to \"flexible
size\", the size of the UMD PDUs after segmentation and/or concatenation shall
be larger than or equal to the Minimum UL RLC PDU size. If data to be
transmitted is not enough to create a UMD PDU of the minimum size, it is
allowed to create a UMD PDU including all data to be transmitted, even if the
resulting size is smaller than the Minimum UL RLC PDU size. The UMD PDU may
contain segmented and/or concatenated RLC SDUs. UMD PDU may also contain
padding to ensure that it is of a valid length. Length Indicators are used to
define boundaries between RLC SDUs within UMD PDUs unless the \"Extension
bit\" already indicates that a UMD PDU contains exactly one complete SDU.
Length Indicators are also used to define whether Padding is included in the
UMD PDU.
If ciphering is configured and started, an UMD PDU is ciphered (except for the
UMD PDU header) before it is submitted to the lower layer.
The transmitting UM RLC entity submits UMD PDUs to the lower layer through
either a CCCH, SHCCH, DCCH, CTCH, DTCH, MCCH, MSCH or an MTCH logical channel.
##### 4.2.1.2.2 Receiving UM RLC entity
The receiving UM-RLC entity receives UMD PDUs through the configured logical
channels from the lower layer. When duplicate avoidance and reordering is
configured there may be one or more than one input from the lower layer.
Inputs can be added or removed without changing the buffer contents, state
variables or timers within the receiving UM RLC entity. Where duplicate
avoidance and reordering is not configured there is only one input from the
lower layer and it is not reconfigured.
When configured, duplicate avoidance and reordering is the first receive
function that is applied to the input UMD PDU streams in the receiving UM RLC
entity. It can only be configured in a UE, it is not used in UTRAN. It
completes duplicate detection and re-ordering of the UMD PDUs that are
received from the one or more inputs to produce a single ordered sequence of
PDUs that is passed to the next in sequence RLC receiver function.
The receiving UM RLC entity deciphers (if ciphering is configured and started)
the received UMD PDUs (except for the UMD PDU header). It removes RLC headers
from received UMD PDUs, and reassembles RLC SDUs (if segmentation and/or
concatenation has been performed by the transmitting UM RLC entity).
If a receiving UM RLC entity is configured for out of sequence SDU delivery,
it will reassemble SDUs and transfer them to the upper layers as soon as all
PDUs that contain the SDU have been received even if earlier PDUs have not yet
been received. It will store PDUs pending the retransmission of missing PDUs
by the transmitting UM RLC. PDUs are removed from storage after recovery of
all of its associated SDUs, or by a sequence number window function or a
storage timer. Out of sequence SDU delivery is configured only in the UE and
is only used with MCCH.
RLC SDUs are delivered by the receiving UM RLC entity to the upper layers
through the UM-SAP. If SN_Delivery is configured, the sequence number of RLC
PDU in which RLC SDU is mapped to is also delivered to the upper layers
through the UM-SAP.
#### 4.2.1.3 Acknowledged mode (AM) RLC entity
Figure 4.4 below shows the model of an acknowledged mode RLC entity.
The AM RLC entity can be configured to utilise one or two logical channels.
The figure 4.4 shows the model of the AM RLC entity when one logical channel
(shown as a solid line) and when two logical channels (shown as dashed lines)
are used.
If one logical channel is configured, the transmitting side of the AM RLC
entity submits AMD and Control PDUs to the lower layer on that logical
channel. If fixed RLC PDU size is configured the RLC PDU size shall be the
same for AMD PDUs and control PDUs. If flexible RLC PDU size is configured the
AMD PDU size is variable up to a maximum RLC PDU size.
In case two logical channels are configured in the uplink, AMD PDUs and
control PDUs except acknowledgement status report, MRW ACK SUFI and WINDOW
SUFI shall be transmitted on the first logical channel, and acknowledgement
status reports, MRW ACK SUFI and WINDOW SUFI shall be transmitted on the
second logical channel. In case two logical channels are configured in the
downlink, AMD and Control PDUs can be transmitted on any of the two logical
channels.
Figure 4.4: Model of an acknowledged mode entity
##### 4.2.1.3.1 Transmitting side
The transmitting side of the AM-RLC entity receives RLC SDUs from upper layers
through the AM-SAP.
If fixed RLC PDU size is configured, RLC SDUs are segmented and/or
concatenated into AMD PDUs of a fixed length. The segmentation is performed if
the received RLC SDU is larger than the length of available space in the AMD
PDU. The uplink AMD PDU size is a semi-static value that is configured by
upper layers and can only be changed through re-establishment of the AM RLC
entity by upper layers.
If flexible RLC PDU size is configured, RLC SDUs are segmented and/or
concatenated to create RLC PDUs larger than or equal to the Minimum UL RLC PDU
size and smaller than or equal to the largest UL AMD PDU size. If data to be
transmitted is not enough to create an AMD PDU of the minimum size, it is
allowed to create an AMD PDU including all data to be transmitted, even if the
resulting size is smaller than the Minimum UL RLC PDU size.
NOTE: In downlink, if flexible RLC PDU size is configured, RLC SDUs are
segmented if the SDU is larger than the maximum RLC PDU size. Concatenation
may be performed up to the maximum RLC PDU size.
The AMD PDU may contain segmented and/or concatenated RLC SDUs. The AMD PDU
may also contain Padding to ensure that it is of a valid size. If fixed RLC
PDU size is configured, Length Indicators or a special value of the HE field
can be used to define boundaries between RLC SDUs within AMD PDUs. Length
Indicators are also used to define whether Padding or Piggybacked STATUS PDU
is included in the AMD PDU. If flexible RLC PDU size is configured, the Length
Indicator size is configured by upper layers. The use of the special value of
the HE field is configured by higher layers.
After the segmentation and/or concatenation are performed, the AMD PDUs are
placed in the Retransmission buffer and at the MUX.
AMD PDUs buffered in the Retransmission buffer are deleted or retransmitted
based on the status report found within a STATUS PDU or Piggybacked STATUS PDU
sent by the peer AM RLC entity. This status report may contain positive or
negative acknowledgements of individual AMD PDUs received by the peer AM RLC
entity.
The MUX multiplexes AMD PDUs from the Retransmission buffer that need to be
retransmitted, and the newly generated AMD PDUs delivered from the
Segmentation/Concatenation function.
The PDUs are delivered to the function that completes the AMD PDU header and
potentially replaces padding with piggybacked status information. A
Piggybacked STATUS PDUs can be of variable size in order to match the amount
of free space in the AMD PDU. The AMD PDU header is completed based on the
input from the RLC Control Unit that indicates the values to set in various
fields (e.g. Polling Bit). The function also multiplexes, if required, Control
PDUs received from the RLC Control Unit (RESET and RESET ACK PDUs), and from
the Reception buffer (Piggybacked STATUS and STATUS PDUs), with AMD PDUs.
The ciphering (if configured) is then applied to the AMD PDUs. The AMD PDU
header is not ciphered. Piggybacked STATUS PDU and Padding in AMD PDU (when
present) are ciphered. Control PDUs (i.e. STATUS PDU, RESET PDU, and RESET ACK
PDU) are not ciphered.
The transmitting side of the AM RLC entity submits AMD PDUs to the lower layer
through either one or two DCCH or DTCH logical channels.
##### 4.2.1.3.2 Receiving side
The receiving side of the AM-RLC entity receives AMD and Control PDUs through
the configured logical channels from the lower layer.
If fixed RLC PDU size is configured, the AMD PDU size is a semi-static value
that is configured by upper layers and can only be changed through re-
establishment of the AM RLC entity by upper layers. In the case where the AMD
PDU size is not configured, it is determined based on the first PDU received.
The downlink and uplink AMD PDU sizes need not be the same.
If flexible RLC PDU size is configured, the AMD PDU size is variable up to the
maximum RLC PDU size, and the Length Indicator size is configured by upper
layers.
AMD PDUs are routed to the Deciphering Unit, where AMD PDUs (minus the AMD PDU
header) are deciphered (if ciphering is configured and started), and then
delivered to the Reception buffer.
The AMD PDUs are placed in the Reception buffer until a complete RLC SDU has
been received. The Receiver acknowledges successful reception or requests
retransmission of the missing AMD PDUs by sending one or more STATUS PDUs to
the AM RLC peer entity, through its transmitting side. If a Piggybacked STATUS
PDU is found in an AMD PDU, it is delivered to the Retransmission buffer &
Management Unit at the transmitting side of the AM RLC entity, in order to
purge the buffer of positively acknowledged AMD PDUs, and to indicate which
AMD PDUs need to be retransmitted.
Once a complete RLC SDU has been received, the associated AMD PDUs are
reassembled by the Reassembly Unit and delivered to upper layers through the
AM-SAP.
RESET and RESET ACK PDUs are delivered to the RLC Control Unit for processing.
If a response to the peer AM RLC entity is needed, an appropriate Control PDU
is delivered, by the RLC Control Unit to the transmitting side of the AM RLC
entity. The received STATUS PDUs are delivered to the Retransmission buffer
and Management Unit at the transmitting side of the AM RLC entity, in order to
purge the buffer of positively acknowledged AMD PDUs, and to indicate which
AMD PDUs need to be retransmitted.
# 5 Functions
The following functions are supported by RLC sublayer. For an overall
description of the following functions see [3]:
\- Segmentation and reassembly.
\- Concatenation.
\- Padding.
\- Transfer of user data.
\- Error correction.
\- In-sequence delivery of upper layer PDUs.
\- Duplicate detection.
\- Flow control.
\- Sequence number check.
\- Protocol error detection and recovery.
\- Ciphering.
\- SDU discard.
\- Out of sequence SDU delivery.
\- Duplicate avoidance and reordering.
# 6 Services provided to upper layers
This clause describes the different services provided by RLC sublayer to upper
layers. It also includes the mapping of RLC functions to different RLC
services. For a detailed description of the RLC services see [3].
**\- Transparent data transfer Service:**
The following functions are needed to support transparent data transfer:
\- Segmentation and reassembly.
\- Transfer of user data.
\- SDU discard.
**\- Unacknowledged data transfer Service:**
The following functions are needed to support unacknowledged data transfer:
\- Segmentation and reassembly.
\- Concatenation.
\- Padding.
\- Transfer of user data.
\- Ciphering.
\- Sequence number check.
> \- SDU discard.
>
> \- Out of sequence SDU delivery.
\- Duplicate avoidance and reordering.
\- Provisioning of sequence number.
**\- Acknowledged data transfer Service:**
The following functions are needed to support acknowledged data transfer:
\- Segmentation and reassembly.
\- Concatenation.
\- Padding.
\- Transfer of user data.
\- Error correction.
\- In-sequence delivery of upper layer PDUs.
\- Duplicate detection.
\- Flow Control.
\- Protocol error detection and recovery.
\- Ciphering.
\- SDU discard.
**\- Maintenance of QoS as defined by upper layers.**
**\- Notification of unrecoverable errors.**
## 6.1 Mapping of services/functions onto logical channels
The following tables show the applicability of services and functions to the
logical channels in UL/DL and UE/UTRAN. A \'+\' in a column denotes that the
service/function is applicable for the logical channel in question whereas a
\'-\' denotes that the service/function is not applicable.
Table 6.1: RLC modes and functions in UE uplink side
+----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | Service | Functions | CCCH | SHCCH | DCCH | DTCH | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | Transparent | Applicability | + | + | - | + | | | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Segmentation | - | - | - | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Transfer of user data | + | + | - | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | SDU Discard | - | - | - | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | Unacknowledged | Applicability | - | - | + | + | | | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Segmentation | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Concatenation | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Padding | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Transfer of user data | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Ciphering | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | SDU Discard | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | Acknowledged | Applicability | - | - | + | + | | | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Segmentation | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Concatenation | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Padding | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Transfer of user data | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Flow Control | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Error Correction | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Protocol error detection & recovery | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Ciphering | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | SDU Discard | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+
Table 6.2: RLC modes and functions in UE downlink side
Service | Functions | BCCH | PCCH | SHCCH | CCCH | DCCH | DTCH | CTCH | MCCH | MTCH | MSCH  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Transparent Service | Applicability | + | + | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| Reassembly | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| Transfer of user data | + | + | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
Unacknowledged Service | Applicability | - | - | + | + | + | + | + | + | + | +  
| Reassembly | - | - | + | + | + | + | + | + | + | +  
| Deciphering | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| Sequence number check | - | - | + | + | + | + | + | + | + | +  
| Transfer of user data | - | - | + | + | + | + | + | + | + | +  
| Duplicate avoidance and reordering | - | - | - | + | - | - | - | - | + | -  
| Out of sequence SDU delivery | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | + | - | -  
Acknowledged Service | Applicability | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| Reassembly | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| Error correction | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| Flow Control | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| In sequence delivery | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| Duplicate detection | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| Protocol error detection & recovery | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| Deciphering | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| Transfer of user data | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| SDU Discard | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
NOTE: Duplicate avoidance and reordering function is optional in UE.
Table 6.3: RLC modes and functions in UTRAN downlink side
Service | Functions | BCCH | PCCH | CCCH | SHCCH | DCCH | DTCH | CTCH | MCCH | MTCH | MSCH  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Transparent Service | Applicability | + | + | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| Segmentation | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| Transfer of user data | + | + | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| SDU Discard | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
Unacknowledged Service | Applicability | - | - | + | + | + | + | + | + | + | +  
| Segmentation | - | - | + | + | + | + | + | + | + | +  
| Concatenation | - | - | + | + | + | + | + | + | + | +  
| Padding | - | - | + | + | + | + | + | + | + | +  
| Ciphering | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| Transfer of user data | - | - | + | + | + | + | + | + | + | +  
| SDU Discard | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | + | + | +  
Acknowledged Service | Applicability | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| Segmentation | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| Concatenation | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| Padding | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| Transfer of user data | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| Flow Control | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| Error Correction | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| Protocol error detection & recovery | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| Ciphering | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
| SDU Discard | - | - | - | - | + | + | - | - | - | -  
Table 6.4: RLC modes and functions in UTRAN uplink side
+----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | Service | Functions | CCCH | SHCCH | DCCH | DTCH | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | Transparent | Applicability | + | + | - | + | | | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Reassembly | - | - | - | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Transfer of user data | + | + | - | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | Unacknowledged | Applicability | - | - | + | + | | | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Reassembly | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Deciphering | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Sequence number check | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Transfer of user data | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | Acknowledged | Applicability | - | - | + | + | | | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Reassembly | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Error correction | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Flow Control | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | In sequence delivery | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Duplicate detection | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Protocol error detection & recovery | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Deciphering | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | Transfer of user data | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+ | | SDU Discard | - | - | + | + | +----------------+-------------------------------------+------+-------+------+------+
# 7 Services expected from MAC
For a detailed description of the service provided by the MAC sublayer to
upper layers see [3].
\- Data transfer.
# 8 Elements for layer-to-layer communication
The interaction between the RLC sublayer and other layers are described in
terms of primitives where the primitives represent the logical exchange of
information and control between the RLC sublayer and other layers. The
primitives shall not specify or constrain the implementation.
## 8.1 Primitives between RLC and upper layers
The primitives between RLC and upper layers are shown in table 8.1.
Table 8.1: Primitives between RLC and upper layers
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Generic | Parameters | | | | | Name | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Req. | Ind. | Resp. | Conf. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RLC-AM-DATA | Data, CNF, | Data, | Not Defined | Status, MUI | | | DiscardReq, | DiscardInfo | | | | | MUI, UE-ID | | | | | | type | | | | | | indicator | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RLC-UM-DATA | Data, UE-ID | Data, | Not Defined | MUI | | | type | Seque | | | | | indicator, | nce_Number | | | | | DiscardReq, | | | | | | MUI | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RLC-TM-DATA | Data, UE-ID | Data, | Not Defined | MUI | | | type | Error | | | | | indicator, | _Indicator | | | | | DiscardReq, | | | | | | MUI | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CRLC-CONFIG | E/R, Stop | Not Defined | Not Defined | Not Defined | | | (UM/AM | | | | | | only), | | | | | | Continue | | | | | | (UM/AM | | | | | | only), | | | | | | Ciphering | | | | | | Elements | | | | | | (UM/AM | | | | | | only), | | | | | | | | | | | | TM\ | | | | | | _parameters | | | | | | (TM only), | | | | | | UM\ | | | | | | _parameters | | | | | | (UM only), | | | | | | AM\ | | | | | | _parameters | | | | | | (AM only) , | | | | | | S | | | | | | N_Delivery | | | | | | (UM only) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | C | N | Not Defined | Not Defined | VT(US) (UM | | RLC-SUSPEND | | | | only), | | (UM/AM | | | | VT(S) (AM | | only) | | | | only) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CRLC-RESUME | No | Not Defined | Not Defined | Not Defined | | (UM/AM | Parameter | | | | | only) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CRLC-STATUS | Not Defined | EVC | Not Defined | Not Defined | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Each Primitive is defined as follows:
**RLC-AM-DATA-Req/Ind/Conf**
\- RLC-AM-DATA-Req is used by upper layers to request transmission of an RLC
SDU in acknowledged mode.
\- RLC-AM-DATA-Ind is used by the AM RLC entity to deliver to upper layers an
RLC SDU that has been transmitted in acknowledged mode and to indicate to
upper layers of the discarded RLC SDU in the peer RLC AM entity.
\- RLC-AM-DATA-Conf is used by the AM RLC entity to confirm to upper layers
the reception of an RLC SDU by the peer-RLC AM entity or to inform the upper
layers of a discarded SDU.
**RLC-UM-DATA-Req/Ind/Conf**
\- RLC-UM-DATA-Req is used by upper layers to request transmission of an RLC
SDU in unacknowledged mode.
\- RLC-UM-DATA-Ind is used by the UM RLC entity to deliver to upper layers an
RLC SDU that has been transmitted in unacknowledged mode. If SN_Delivery is
configured, RLC-UM-DATA-Ind is used by the UM RLC entity to deliver to upper
layers also Sequence_Number.
\- RLC-UM-DATA-Conf is used by the UM RLC entity to inform the upper layers of
a discarded SDU.
**RLC-TM-DATA-Req/Ind/Conf**
\- RLC-TM-DATA-Req is used by upper layers to request transmission of an RLC
SDU in transparent mode.
\- RLC-TM-DATA-Ind is used by the TM RLC entity to deliver to upper layers an
RLC SDU that has been transmitted in transparent mode.
\- RLC-TM-DATA-Conf is used by the TM RLC entity to inform the upper layers of
a discarded SDU.
**CRLC-CONFIG-Req**
This primitive is used by upper layers to establish, re-establish, release,
stop, continue or modify the RLC. Ciphering elements are included for UM and
AM operation.
**CRLC-SUSPEND-Req/Conf**
\- CRLC-SUSPEND-Req is used by upper layers to suspend the UM or AM RLC
entity.
\- CRLC-SUSPEND-Conf is used by the UM or AM RLC entity to confirm that the
entity is suspended.
**CRLC-RESUME-Req**
This primitive is used by upper layers to resume the UM or AM RLC entity after
the UM or AM RLC entity has been suspended.
**CRLC-STATUS-Ind**
It is used by an RLC entity to send status information to upper layers.
## 8.2 Primitive parameters
Following parameters are used in the primitives:
1) The parameter Data is the RLC SDU that is mapped onto the Data field in RLC
PDUs. When AM or UM RLC entities are used, the length of the Data parameter is
a multiple of 8 bits, otherwise (TM RLC entity) the length of Data parameter
is a bit-string whose length may not be a multiple of 8 bits.
2) The parameter Confirmation Request (CNF) indicates whether the transmitting
side of the AM RLC entity needs to confirm the reception of the RLC SDU by the
peer-RLC AM entity. If required, once all AMD PDUs that make up the RLC SDU
are positively acknowledged by the receiving AM RLC entity, the transmitting
AM RLC entity notifies upper layers.
3) The parameter Message Unit Identifier (MUI) is an identity of the RLC SDU,
which is used to indicate which RLC SDU that is confirmed with the RLC-AM-
DATA-Conf. primitive, or discarded with the RLC-AM/UM/TM-DATA-Conf. Primitive.
4) The parameter E/R indicates establishment, re-establishment, release or
modification of an RLC entity, where re-establishment is applicable to AM and
UM RLC entities only. If re-establishment is requested, the state variables
and configurable parameters are initialised according to subclause 9.7.7. If
release is requested, all protocol parameters, variables and timers are
released and the RLC entity enters the NULL state. If modification is
requested, the protocol parameters indicated by upper layers (e.g. ciphering
parameters) are only modified, while keeping the other protocol parameters,
such as the protocol variables, protocol timers and protocol state unchanged.
AM RLC entities are always re-established if any of the uplink or downlink AMD
PDU size is changed. The modification of other protocol parameters does not
require a re-establishment.
5) The parameter Event Code (EVC) indicates the reason for the CRLC-STATUS-Ind
e.g., unrecoverable errors such as data link layer loss or recoverable status
events such as reset.
6) The parameter Ciphering Elements are only applicable for UM and AM
operations. These parameters are Ciphering Mode, Ciphering Key, Transmitting
Activation Time (Sequence Number to activate a new ciphering configuration at
the Sender), Receiving Activation Time (Sequence Number to activate a new
ciphering configuration at the Receiver) and HFN (Hyper Frame Number).
7) The AM_parameters are only applicable for AM operation. These parameters
are AMD PDU size, which can be either a fixed value or set to flexible size,
largest UL AMD PDU size (only used when flexible PDU size is configured by
upper layers, see subclause 9.2.2.8), Length Indicator Size, In-sequence
Delivery Indication (indicating that RLC SDUs are delivered to upper layers in
sequence or that they can be delivered out of sequence), Timer values (see
subclause 9.5), Use of a special value of the HE field (see subclause
9.2.2.7), Protocol parameter values (see subclause 9.6), Polling triggers (see
subclause 9.7.1), Status triggers (see subclause 9.7.2), Periodical Status
blocking configuration (see subclause 9.7.2), SDU discard mode (see subclause
9.7.3), Minimum WSN (see subclause 9.2.2.11.3), and Send MRW. The Minimum WSN
is always greater than or equal to the number of transport blocks in the
smallest transport block set. The Send MRW indicates that the information of
each discarded RLC SDU is sent to the Receiver, and the MRW SUFI is sent to
the Receiver even if no segments of the RLC SDU to be discarded were submitted
to a lower layer.
8) The parameter DiscardInfo indicates to upper layer the discarded RLC SDU in
the peer-RLC AM entity. It is applicable only when in-sequence delivery is
configured and it is to be used when upper layers require the reliable data
transfer.
9) The Stop parameter is applicable to AM and UM RLC entities only and
indicates to the RLC entity to (see subclause 9.7.6):
\- not transmit nor receive any RLC PDUs.
10) The Continue parameter is applicable to AM and UM RLC entities only and
indicates to the RLC entity to continue transmission and reception of RLC
PDUs.
11) The UM_parameters are only applicable for UM operation. It contains
Timer_Discard value (see subclause 9.5), use Alternative E-bit interpretation
(see subclause 9.2.2.5), largest UL UMD PDU size (see subclause 9.2.2.8), DL
RLC UM LI size (see subclause 9.2.2.8) and SN_Delivery. For a receiving UM RLC
in a UE, an additional parameter indicating use/ no use of out of sequence SDU
delivery is included (see subclause 11.2.3.2). If out of sequence SDU delivery
is used, the parameters OSD_Window_Size (see subclause 9.6) and the timeout
value of Timer_OSD (see subclause 9.5) are included. For a receiving UM RLC in
a UE, an additional parameter indicating use/ no use of duplicate avoidance
and reordering is included (see subclause 9.7.10). If duplicate avoidance and
reordering is used, the parameters DAR_Window_Size (see subclause 9.6) and the
timeout value of Timer_DAR (see subclause 9.5) are included. If out-of-
sequence support is configured, the parameter Configured_Rx_Window_Size is
included. If SN_Delivery parameter is configured, the receiving RLC entity
delivers an RLC SDU with Sequence_Number to the upper layers. When SN_Delivery
parameter is configured, the DL transmitting RLC entity should neither
concatenate nor segment RLC SDUs, the UL transmitting RLC entity shall not
concatenate RLC SDUs and may segment RLC SDUs.
12) The TM_parameters are only applicable for TM operation. It contains e.g.
segmentation indication (see subclauses 9.2.2.9 and 11.1.2.1), Timer_Discard
value (see subclause 9.5) and delivery of erroneous SDU indication (see
subclause 11.1.3).
13) The N parameter indicates that an RLC entity will not send a PDU with
\"Sequence Number\">=VT(S)+N for AM and \"Sequence Number\">=VT(US)+N for UM,
where N is a non-negative integer.
> 14) The VT(S) parameter indicates the value of the Send State Variable for
> the case of the AM.
>
> 15) The VT(US) parameter indicates the value of the UM Data State Variable,
> for the case of the UM.
>
> 16) The Error_Indicator parameter indicates that the RLC SDU is erroneous
> (see subclause 11.1.3).
17) The parameter UE-ID type indicator indicates the RNTI type (U-RNTI or
C-RNTI) to be used for the associated RLC SDU. This parameter is not required
at the UE.
18) The parameter DiscardReq indicates whether the transmitting RLC entity
needs to inform the upper layers of the discarded RLC SDU. If required, the
transmitting RLC entity notifies upper layers when the SDU is discarded.
19) The parameter Status is only applicable for AM operation. This parameter
indicates whether a RLC SDU is successfully transmitted or discarded.
20) The parameter Sequence_Number is the value that is mapped onto the
Sequence Number (SN) field in an RLC PDU. It is applicable only for UM
operation when SN_Delivery is configured for the UMD RLC entity.
21) The parameter Minimum UL PDU size is applicable for AM and UM operation in
the uplink. The Minimum UL PDU size determines the smallest size of the RLC
AMD or UMD PDU after segmentation or concatenation (see section 9.2.2.9). If
data to be transmitted is not enough to create a PDU of the minimum size, it
is allowed to create a PDU including all data to be transmitted, even if the
resulting size is smaller than the Minimum UL RLC PDU size.
# 9 Elements for peer-to-peer communication
## 9.1 Protocol data units
The structures defined in this subclause are normative.
### 9.1.1 Data PDUs
a) TMD PDU (Transparent Mode Data PDU).
The TMD PDU is used to convey RLC SDU data without adding any RLC overhead.
The TMD PDU is used by RLC when it is in transparent mode.
b) UMD PDU (Unacknowledged Mode Data PDU).
The UMD PDU is used to convey sequentially numbered PDUs containing RLC SDU
data. UMD PDUs are used by RLC when it is configured for unacknowledged data
transfer.
c) AMD PDU (Acknowledged Mode Data PDU).
The AMD PDU is used to convey sequentially numbered PDUs containing RLC SDU
data. AMD PDUs are used by RLC when it is configured for acknowledged data
transfer.
### 9.1.2 Control PDUs
Control PDUs are only used in acknowledged mode.
a) STATUS PDU and Piggybacked STATUS PDU.
The STATUS PDU and the Piggybacked STATUS PDU are used:
\- by the Receiver to inform the Sender about missing and received AMD PDUs in
the Receiver;
\- by the Receiver to inform the Sender about the size of the allowed
transmission window;
\- by the Sender to request the Receiver to move the reception window; and
\- by the Receiver to acknowledge the Sender about the reception of the
request to move the reception window.
b) RESET PDU.
The RESET PDU is used to reset all protocol states, protocol variables and
protocol timers of the peer RLC entity in order to synchronise the two peer
entities. It is sent by the Sender to the Receiver.
c) RESET ACK PDU.
The RESET ACK PDU is an acknowledgement to the RESET PDU. It is sent by the
Receiver to the Sender.
Table 9.1: RLC PDU names and descriptions
* * *
Data Transfer Mode PDU name Description Transparent TMD Transparent mode data
Unacknowledged UMD Sequenced unacknowledged mode data Acknowledged AMD
Sequenced acknowledged mode data STATUS Solicited or Unsolicited Status
Report, Change window size command, SDU discard command, or SDU discard
acknowledgement Piggybacked STATUS Piggybacked Solicited or Unsolicited Status
Report, Change window size command, SDU discard command, or SDU discard
acknowledgement RESET Reset Command RESET ACK Reset Acknowledgement
* * *
## 9.2 Formats and parameters
The formats of RLC PDUs and their parameters defined in this subclause are
normative.
### 9.2.1 Formats
This subclause specifies the format of the RLC PDUs. The parameters of each
RLC PDU are explained in subclause 9.2.2.
#### 9.2.1.1 General
An RLC PDU is a bit string. In the figures in subclause 9.2, bit strings are
represented by tables in which the first bit is the leftmost one on the first
line of the table, the last bit is the rightmost one on the last line of the
table, and more generally the bit string is to be read from left to right and
then in the reading order of the lines.
Depending on the provided service, RLC SDUs are bit strings, with any non-null
length, or bit strings with a multiple of 8 bits in length. An RLC SDU is
included into an RLC PDU from first bit onward.
#### 9.2.1.2 TMD PDU
The TMD PDU is used to transfer user data when RLC is operating in transparent
mode. No overhead is added to the SDU by RLC. The data length is not
constrained to be a multiple of 8 bits.
Figure 9.1: TMD PDU
#### 9.2.1.3 UMD PDU
The UMD PDU is used to transfer user data when RLC is operating in
unacknowledged mode. The length of the data part shall be a multiple of 8
bits. The UMD PDU header consists of the first octet, which contains the
\"Sequence Number\". The RLC header consists of the first octet and all the
octets that contain \"Length Indicators\".
Figure 9.2: UMD PDU
NOTE (1): The \"Length Indicator\" may be 15 bits.
#### 9.2.1.4 AMD PDU
The AMD PDU is used to transfer user data, piggybacked status information and
the Polling bit when RLC is operating in acknowledged mode. The length of the
data part shall be a multiple of 8 bits. The AMD PDU header consists of the
first two octets, which contain the \"Sequence Number\". The RLC header
consists of the first two octets and all the octets that contain \"Length
Indicators\".
Figure 9.3: AMD PDU
NOTE (1): The \"Length Indicator\" may be 15 bits.
#### 9.2.1.5 STATUS PDU
The STATUS PDU is used to exchange status information between two RLC AM
entities.
The format of the STATUS PDU is given in figure 9.4 below. The length of each
super field (SUFI) is dependent on its type and contents.
Figure 9.4: STATUS PDU
A STATUS PDU can include super-fields of different types. The size of a STATUS
PDU is variable and upper bounded by the maximum RLC PDU size used by the
logical channel on which the control PDUs are sent. If fixed RLC PDU size has
been configured by upper layers, padding shall be included to match one of the
PDU sizes used by the logical channel on which the control PDUs are sent. The
length of the STATUS PDU shall be a multiple of 8 bits. If flexible RLC PDU
size has been configured by upper layers padding is only included to make the
length of the STATUS PDU a multiple of 8 bits.
#### 9.2.1.6 Piggybacked STATUS PDU
The format of the piggybacked STATUS PDU is the same as for the STATUS PDU
except that the D/C field is replaced by a reserved bit (R2). This PDU can be
piggybacked in an AMD PDU if the data leaves out enough room in the AMD PDU.
The PDU Type field is set to \"000\" and all other values are invalid for this
version of the protocol.
Figure 9.5: Piggybacked STATUS PDU
#### 9.2.1.7 RESET, RESET ACK PDU
The RESET PDU includes a one-bit sequence number field (RSN). The value of
this bit is carried over in the RESET ACK PDU sent in response in order to
allow the peer entity to identify which RESET PDU it was sent in response to.
Figure 9.6: RESET, RESET ACK PDU
The size of a RESET or RESET ACK PDU is variable and upper bounded by the
maximum RLC PDU size used by the logical channel on which the control PDUs are
sent. If fixed RLC PDU size has been configured by upper layers, padding shall
be included to match one of the PDU sizes used by the logical channel on which
the control PDUs are sent. The length of the RESET or RESET ACK PDU shall be a
multiple of 8 bits. If flexible RLC PDU size has been configured by upper
layers padding is only included to make the length of the RESET or RESET ACK
PDU a multiple of 8 bits.
### 9.2.2 Parameters
If not otherwise mentioned in the definition of each field, the bits in the
parameters shall be interpreted as follows: the left-most bit string is the
first and most significant and the right most bit is the last and least
significant bit.
Unless otherwise mentioned, integers are encoded in standard binary encoding
for unsigned integers. In all cases, including when a value extends over more
than one octet as shown in the tables, the bits appear ordered from MSB to LSB
when read in the RLC PDU.
#### 9.2.2.1 D/C field
Length: 1bit.
The D/C field indicates the type of an AM PDU. It can be either data or
control PDU.
* * *
Bit Description 0 Control PDU 1 Data PDU
* * *
#### 9.2.2.2 PDU Type
Length: 3 bit.
The PDU type field indicates the Control PDU type.
* * *
Bit PDU Type 000 STATUS 001 RESET 010 RESET ACK 011-111 Reserved (PDUs with
this coding will be discarded by this version of the protocol).
* * *
#### 9.2.2.3 Sequence Number (SN)
This field indicates the \"Sequence Number\" of the RLC PDU, encoded in
binary.
* * *
PDU type Length Notes AMD PDU 12 bits Used for retransmission and reassembly
UMD PDU 7 bits Used for reassembly
* * *
#### 9.2.2.4 Polling bit (P)
Length: 1bit.
This field is used to request a status report (one or several STATUS PDUs)
from the Receiver.
* * *
Bit Description 0 Status report not requested 1 Request a status report
* * *
#### 9.2.2.5 Extension bit (E)
Length: 1bit.
The interpretation of this bit depends on RLC mode and higher layer
configuration:
\- In the UMD PDU, the \"Extension bit\" in the first octet has either the
normal E-bit interpretation or the alternative E-bit interpretation depending
on higher layer configuration. The \"Extension bit\" in all the other octets
always has the normal E-bit interpretation.
\- In the AMD PDU, the \"Extension bit\" always has the normal E-bit
interpretation.
**Normal E-bit interpretation:**
* * *
Bit Description 0 The next field is data, piggybacked STATUS PDU or padding 1
The next field is Length Indicator and E bit
* * *
Alternative E-bit interpretation:
* * *
**Bit** **Description** **0** The next field is a complete SDU, which is not
segmented, concatenated or padded. **1** The next field is Length Indicator
and E bit
* * *
#### 9.2.2.6 Reserved 1 (R1)
Length: 3 bits.
This field in the RESET PDU and RESET ACK PDU is used to have a multiple of 8
bits in length. Its shall always be coded to \"000\". Other values are
reserved and will be considered invalid for this version of the protocol.
#### 9.2.2.7 Header Extension Type (HE)
Length: 2 bits.
This two-bit field indicates if the next octet is data or a \"Length
Indicator\" and E bit.
* * *
Value Description 00 The succeeding octet contains data 01 The succeeding
octet contains a length indicator and E bit 10 This value is the special value
of HE field and indicates that the succeeding octet contains data and the last
octet of the PDU is the last octet of an SDU. 11 Reserved (PDUs with this
coding will be discarded by this version of the protocol).
* * *
#### 9.2.2.8 Length Indicator (LI)
Unless the \"Extension bit\" indicates that a UMD PDU contains a complete SDU
which is not segmented, concatenated or padded, or the HE field indicates that
an AMD PDU contains the last octet of the RLC SDU, a \"Length Indicator\" is
used to indicate the last octet of each RLC SDU ending within the PDU. If the
\"Extension bit\" indicates that the UMD PDU contains a complete SDU which is
not segmented, concatenated or padded, or the HE field indicates that an AMD
PDU contains the last octet of the SDU, no LIs are present in this RLC PDU.
Except for the predefined values reserved for special purposes and listed in
the tables below, the \"Length Indicator\" shall:
\- be set to the number of octets between the end of the RLC header and up to
and including the last octet of an RLC SDU segment;
\- be included in the PDUs that they refer to.
The size of the \"Length Indicator\" may be either 7 bits or 15 bits. The
\"Length Indicator\" size is determined independently for uplink and downlink.
The value of a \"Length Indicator\" shall not exceed the values specified in
subclauses 11.2.4.2 and 11.3.4.5 respectively for UMD and AMD PDUs.
The \"Length Indicators\" which refer to the same PDU shall:
\- not be reordered in case of retransmission;
\- be in the same order as the RLC SDUs that they refer to.
For AM uplink and for AM downlink when \"Fixed RLC PDU size\" is configured:
\- if the \"AMD PDU size\" is ≤ 126 octets:
\- 7-bit \"Length Indicators\" shall be used.
\- else:
\- 15-bit \"Length Indicators\" shall be used.
\- the size of the \"Length Indicator\" is always the same for all AMD PDUs,
for one RLC entity.
For AM downlink and AM uplink when \"Flexible RLC PDU size\" is configured:
\- if \"Length Indicator size\" is set to 7 bits:
\- 7-bit \"Length Indicators\" shall be used.
\- else:
\- 15-bit \"Length Indicators\" shall be used.
For UM uplink:
\- if the \"largest UL UMD PDU size\" is ≤ 125 octets:
\- 7-bit \"Length Indicators\" shall be used.
\- else:
\- 15-bit \"Length Indicators\" shall be used.
For UM downlink:
\- the \"Length Indicator\" size provided in \"DL RLC UM LI size\" shall be
used.
For UM:
\- between modifications of the \"largest UMD PDU size\", the size of the
\"Length Indicator\" is the same for all UMD PDUs;
\- if the RLC SDU begins in the beginning of the RLC PDU; and
\- if the RLC PDU is transmitted in uplink; and
\- if the \"Length Indicators\" indicating that a RLC SDU ended exactly in the
end or one octet short (only when 15-bit \"Length Indicators\" is used) of the
previous RLC PDU are not present; and
\- if the \"Extension bit\" does not indicate that the UMD PDU contains a
complete SDU which is not segmented, concatenated or padded; and
\- if the \"Length Indicator\" indicating that the first data octet in this
RLC PDU is the first octet of an RLC SDU and the last octet in this RLC PDU is
the last octet of the same RLC SDU is not present; and
\- if the \"Length Indicator\" indicating that the first data octet in this
RLC PDU is the first octet of an SDU and the same RLC SDU is one octet short
of exactly filling the PDU (only when 15-bit \"Length Indicators\" is used) is
not present:
\- if 7-bit \"Length Indicator\" is used:
\- the \"Length Indicator\" with value \"111 1100\" shall be used.
\- if 15-bit \"Length Indicator\" is used:
\- the \"Length Indicator\" with value \"111 1111 1111 1100\" shall be used.
\- in downlink:
\- if 7-bit \"Length Indicator\" is used:
\- the Receiver shall be prepared to receive the \"Length Indicator\" with
value \"111 1100\";
\- the Receiver shall follow the discard rules in subclause 11.2.3 both when
the \"Length Indicator\" with value \"111 1100\" is present and when it is
absent.
\- if 15-bit \"Length Indicator\" is used:
\- the Receiver shall be prepared to receive the \"Length Indicator\" with
value \"111 1111 1111 1100\";
\- the Receiver shall follow the discard rules in subclause 11.2.3 both when
the \"Length Indicator\" with value \"111 1111 1111 1100\" is present and when
it is absent.
In the case where the end of the last segment of an RLC SDU exactly ends at
the end of a PDU and there is no \"Length Indicator\" that indicates the end
of the RLC SDU, and the HE field of the PDU does not indicate that the last
octet of the AMD PDU is the last octet of an SDU, and the \"Extension bit\" of
the following PDU does not indicate that the UMD PDU contains a complete SDU
which is not segmented, concatenated or padded, and the \"Length Indicator\"
of the following PDU does not indicate that the first data octet in that PDU
is the first octet of an SDU and the last octet in that PDU is the last octet
of the same SDU, and the \"Length Indicator\" of the following PDU does not
indicate that the first data octet in that RLC PDU is the first octet of an
SDU and the same RLC SDU is one octet short of exactly filling the PDU (only
when 15-bit \"Length Indicators\" is used):
\- if 7-bit \"Length Indicator\" is used:
\- a \"Length Indicator\" with value \"000 0000\" shall be placed as the first
\"Length Indicator\" in the following PDU;
\- if 15-bit \"Length Indicator\" is used:
\- a \"Length Indicator\" with value \"000 0000 0000 0000\" shall be placed as
the first \"Length Indicator\" in the following PDU.
In the case where a PDU contains a 15-bit \"Length Indicator\" indicating that
an RLC SDU ends with one octet left in the PDU, the last octet of this PDU
shall:
\- be padded by the Sender and ignored by the Receiver though there is no
\"Length Indicator\" indicating the existence of Padding; and
\- not be filled with the first octet of the next RLC SDU data.
In the case where 15-bit \"Length Indicators\" are used in a PDU and the last
segment of an RLC SDU is one octet short of exactly filling the PDU and there
is no \"Length Indicator\" that indicates the end of the RLC SDU:
\- if a 15-bit \"Length Indicator\" is used for the following PDU:
\- the \"Length Indicator\" with value \"111 1111 1111 1011\" shall be placed
as the first \"Length Indicator\" in the following PDU;
\- the remaining one octet in the current PDU shall be padded by the Sender
and ignored at the Receiver though there is no \"Length Indicator\" indicating
the existence of Padding;
\- if a 7-bit \"Length Indicator\" size is configured for the following PDU:
\- if RLC is configured for UM mode:
\- if the \"Extension bit\" of that PDU does not indicate that the UMD PDU
contains a complete SDU which is not segmented, concatenated or padded, and
the \"Length Indicator\" of that PDU does not indicate that the first data
octet in that PDU is the first octet of an SDU and the last octet in that PDU
is the last octet of the same SDU:
\- the \"Length Indicator\" with value \"000 0000\" shall be placed as the
first \"Length indicator\" in the following PDU;
\- the \"Sequence Number\" shall be incremented by 2 before it is transmitted.
For UM and AM RLC:
\- if a 7 bit \"Length Indicator\" is used in a RLC PDU and one or more
padding octets are present in the RLC PDU after the end of the last RLC SDU:
\- indicate the presence of padding by including a \"Length Indicator\" with
value \"1111111\" as the last \"Length Indicator\" in the PDU.
\- if a 15 bit \"Length Indicator\" is used in a RLC PDU and two or more
padding octets are present in the RLC PDU after the end of the last RLC SDU:
\- indicate the presence of padding by including a \"Length Indicator\" with
value \"111 1111 1111 1111\" as the last \"Length Indicator\" in the PDU.
NOTE: After the \"Length Indicator\" indicating the presence of padding has
been included in the RLC PDU, the length of the padding may be zero.
In the case where the \"alternative E-bit interpretation\" is configured for
UM RLC and an RLC PDU contains a segment of an SDU but neither the first octet
nor the last octet of this SDU:
\- if a 7-bit \"Length Indicator\" is used:
\- the \"Length Indicator\" with value \"111 1110\" shall be used.
\- if a 15-bit \"Length Indicator\" is used:
\- the \"Length Indicator\" with value \"111 1111 1111 1110\" shall be used.
In the case where the \"alternative E-bit interpretation\" is configured for
UM RLC and the first data octet in this RLC PDU is the first octet of an SDU
and the last octet in this RLC PDU is the last octet of the same SDU:
\- if a 7-bit \"Length Indicator\" is used:
\- the \"Length Indicator\" with value \"111 1101\" shall be used.
\- if a 15-bit \"Length Indicator\" is used:
\- the \"Length Indicator\" with value \"111 1111 1111 1101\" shall be used.
In the case where the \"alternative E-bit interpretation\" is configured for
UM RLC and the first data octet in this RLC PDU is the first octet of an SDU
and the same RLC SDU is one octet short of exactly filling the PDU and a
15-bit \"Length Indicator\" is used:
\- the \"Length Indicator\" with value \"111 1111 1111 1010\" shall be used.
If a \"Length Indicator\" is still awaiting transmission and there is no RLC
SDU available, an RLC PDU consisting of this \"Length Indicator\", the
appropriate padding \"Length Indicator\" and padding may be transmitted.
Predefined values of the \"Length Indicator\" are used to indicate padding.
The values that are reserved for special purposes are listed in the tables
below depending on the size of the \"Length Indicator\". Only predefined
\"Length Indicator\" values can refer to the padding space. These values shall
only be placed after all other \"Length Indicators\" for a PDU.
STATUS PDUs can be piggybacked on the AMD PDU by using part or all of the
padding space. A predefined \"Length Indicator\" shall be used to indicate the
presence of a piggybacked STATUS PDU. This \"Length Indicator\" replaces the
padding \"Length Indicator\". The piggybacked STATUS PDU shall be appended
immediately following the PDU data. When only part of the padding space is
used, the end of the piggybacked STATUS PDU is indicated by one of the SUFI
fields NO_MORE or ACK. Thus no additional \"Length Indicator\" is required to
show that there is still padding in the AMD PDU.
If \"SDU discard with explicit signalling\" is configured:
\- an AMD PDU can contain a maximum number of 15 \"Length Indicators\"
indicating the end of 15 corresponding SDUs; and
\- the rest of the AMD PDU space shall be used as padding or as piggybacked
STATUS PDU.
Length: 7 bits
* * *
Bit Description 0000000 The previous RLC PDU was exactly filled with the last
segment of an RLC SDU and there is no \"Length Indicator\" that indicates the
end of the RLC SDU in the previous RLC PDU. 1111100 UMD PDU: The first data
octet in this RLC PDU is the first octet of an RLC SDU. AMD PDU: Reserved
(PDUs with this coding will be discarded by this version of the protocol).
1111101 UMD PDU: The first data octet in this RLC PDU is the first octet of an
RLC SDU and the last octet in this RLC PDU is the last octet of the same RLC
SDU. AMD PDU: [ ]{.underline} Reserved (PDUs with this coding will be
discarded by this version of the protocol). 1111110 AMD PDU: The rest of the
RLC PDU includes a piggybacked STATUS PDU. UMD PDU: The RLC PDU contains a
segment of an SDU but neither the first octet nor the last octet of this SDU.
1111111 The rest of the RLC PDU is padding. The padding length can be zero.
* * *
Length: 15bits
* * *
Bit Description 000000000000000 The previous RLC PDU was exactly filled with
the last segment of an RLC SDU and there is no \"Length Indicator\" that
indicates the end of the RLC SDU in the previous RLC PDU. 111111111111010 UMD
PDU: The first data octet in this RLC PDU is the first octet of an RLC SDU and
the second last octet in this RLC PDU is the last octet of the same RLC SDU.
The remaining one octet in the RLC PDU is ignored. 111111111111011 The last
segment of an RLC SDU was one octet short of exactly filling the previous RLC
PDU and there is no \"Length Indicator\" that indicates the end of the RLC SDU
in the previous RLC PDU. The remaining one octet in the previous RLC PDU is
ignored. 111111111111100 UMD PDU: The first data octet in this RLC PDU is the
first octet of an RLC SDU. AMD PDU: Reserved (PDUs with this coding will be
discarded by this version of the protocol). 111111111111101 UMD PDU: The first
data octet in this RLC PDU is the first octet of an RLC SDU and the last octet
in this RLC PDU is the last octet of the same RLC SDU. AMD PDU: [
]{.underline} Reserved (PDUs with this coding will be discarded by this
version of the protocol). 111111111111110 AMD PDU: The rest of the RLC PDU
includes a piggybacked STATUS PDU. UMD PDU: The RLC PDU contains a segment of
an SDU but neither the first octet nor the last octet of this SDU.
111111111111111 The rest of the RLC PDU is padding. The padding length can be
zero.
* * *
#### 9.2.2.9 Data field
RLC SDUs or segments of RLC SDUs are mapped to this field in transparent,
unacknowledged and acknowledged modes.
Transparent mode data:
\- the length of RLC SDUs is not constrained to a multiple of 8 bits;
\- if \"Segmentation\" is configured:
\- all the RLC PDUs carrying segments of a RLC SDU shall be sent in one TTI;
\- only RLC PDUs carrying segments from a single RLC SDU shall be sent in one
TTI;
\- otherwise (Segmentation is not configured):
\- TMD PDU size is fixed within a single TTI and is equal to the RLC SDU size.
Unacknowledged mode data and Acknowledged mode data:
\- the length of RLC SDUs is constrained to a multiple of 8 bits;
\- if \"Fixed RLC PDU size\" is configured:
\- the last segment of an RLC SDU shall be concatenated with the first segment
of the next RLC SDU in order to fill the data field completely and avoid
unnecessary padding unless otherwise specified in subclause 9.2.2.8 or
subclause 11.2.2.2. The \"Length Indicator\" field is used to point the
borders between RLC SDUs (see subclause 9.2.2.8).
\- if \"Flexible RLC PDU size\" is configured:
\- in downlink, the last segment of an RLC SDU may be concatenated with the
first segment of the next RLC SDU in order to fill the data field up to a
maximum RLC PDU size. The \"Length Indicator\" field is used to point the
borders between RLC SDUs (see subclause 9.2.2.8).
\- in uplink, the last segment of an RLC SDU shall be concatenated with the
first segment of the next RLC SDU in order to fill the data field at least up
to the Minimum UL RLC PDU size. It is allowed to concatenate up to the largest
UL AMD PDU size for Acknowledged mode data and largest UMD PDU size for
Unacknowledged mode data. The \"Length Indicator\" field is used to point the
borders between RLC SDUs (see subclause 9.2.2.8). If data to be transmitted is
not enough to create a UMD PDU of the minimum size, it is allowed to create a
UMD PDU including all data to be transmitted, even if the resulting size is
smaller than the Minimum UL RLC PDU size.
\- in uplink, if MAC-i/is has been configured:
\- if the UE pre-generates RLC PDUs for transmission in a later TTI and there
is only one activated uplink frequency:
\- provided that the UE has sufficient amount of data available for
transmission, the size of the data field of the RLC PDU shall be chosen so
that each RLC PDU to be multiplexed to the MAC-i/is PDU matches the maximum
amount of data allowed to be transmitted by the applicable current grant
(scheduled or non-scheduled) for the current TTI.
\- RLC PDUs may only be pre-generated if the amount of data in outstanding
pre-generated RLC PDUs for this logical channel is less than or equal to four
times the maximum amount of data allowed to be transmitted by the applicable
current grant (scheduled or non-scheduled) for the current TTI.
\- else if the UE pre-generates RLC PDUs for transmission in a later TTI and
there are two activated uplink frequencies for FDD or more than one scheduled
uplink frequencies for 1.28 Mcps TDD:
\- provided that the UE has sufficient amount of data available for
transmission, the size of the data field of the RLC PDU shall be chosen so
that each RLC PDU to be multiplexed to the MAC-i/is PDU matches the minimum of
the following:
\- For FDD,
\- maximum amount of data allowed to be transmitted by the applicable current
grant (scheduled or non-scheduled) on the primary uplink frequency for the
current TTI.
\- maximum amount of data allowed to be transmitted by the applicable current
grant (scheduled) on the secondary uplink frequency for the current TTI.
\- For 1.28 Mcps TDD,
\- maximum amount of data allowed to be transmitted by the applicable current
grant (scheduled) on the each scheduled uplink frequency for the current TTI.
\- For FDD, RLC PDUs may only be pre-generated if the amount of data in
outstanding pre-generated RLC PDUs for this logical channel is less than or
equal to eight times the minimum of the following:
\- maximum amount of data allowed to be transmitted by the applicable current
grant (scheduled or non-scheduled) on the primary uplink frequency for the
current TTI.
\- maximum amount of data allowed to be transmitted by the applicable current
grant (scheduled) on the secondary uplink frequency for the current TTI.
\- For 1.28 Mcps TDD, RLC PDUs may only be pre-generated if the amount of data
in outstanding pre-generated RLC PDUs for this logical channel is less than or
equal to 4N times the minimum of the following:
\- maximum amount of data allowed to be transmitted by the applicable current
grant (scheduled) of each uplink frequency for the current TTI.
NOTE: N is the number of configured uplink frequencies.
\- else:
\- the size of the data field of the RLC PDU shall be chosen so that the RLC
PDU size matches the data requested for this logical channel by the current
E-TFC selection.
\- if \"Flexible RLC PDU size\" is configured, the maximum size of the data
field of the RLC PDU is 1503 octets.
#### 9.2.2.10 Padding (PAD)
All unused space in a PDU shall be located at the end of the PDU and is
referred to as padding. Padding shall have a length such that the PDU as a
whole has one of the predefined total lengths.
Padding may have any value and the Receiver and the Sender shall disregard it.
#### 9.2.2.11 SUFI
Which SUFI fields to use is implementation dependent, but when a STATUS PDU
includes information about which AMD PDUs have been received and which are
detected as missing, information shall not be included about AMD PDUs with
\"Sequence Number\"≥VR(H) or \"Sequence Number\"≥VR(MR), i.e. AMD PDUs that
have not yet reached the Receiver or are above the receiving window.
Information about AMD PDUs with \"Sequence Number\"\ VR(H) nor \ 0, the Receiver has to discard the not yet successfully
received SDUs that have segments or \"Length Indicators\" indicating the end
of the SDUs in the AMD PDU with sequence number SN_MRW~LENGTH~ up to and
including the octet indicated by the N~LENGTH~:th \"Length Indicator\" field
of the PDU with sequence number SN_MRW~LENGTH~.
**N~LENGTH~**
Length: 4 bits
N~LENGTH~ is used together with SN_MRW~LENGTH~ to indicate the end of the last
RLC SDU to be discarded in the Receiver.
N~LENGTH~ indicates which \"Length Indicator\" in the AMD PDU with \"Sequence
Number\" SN_MRW~LENGTH~ corresponds to the last RLC SDU to be discarded in the
Receiver. N~LENGTH~ = 0 indicates that the end of the last RLC SDU was
indicated in the AMD PDU with \"Sequence Number\" SN_MRW~LENGTH~ --1 and that
the first data octet in the AMD PDU with \"Sequence Number\" SN_MRW~LENGTH~ is
the first data octet to be reassembled next.
##### 9.2.2.11.9 The Poll (POLL) super-field
The \'Poll\' super-field is used to request a status report (one or several
STATUS PDUs) from the receiver. The poll super-field in downlink can only be
used if flexible RLC PDU size is configured in the downlink. The poll super-
field in uplink can only be used if flexible RLC PDU size is configured in the
uplink. The format is given in figure 9.15b below.
* * *
Type = **POLL** Poll_SN
* * *
Figure 9.15b: The POLL fields in a STATUS PDU
**Poll_SN**
Length: 12 bits
When \"Poll\" is configured, the Poll_SN field shall be set to VT(S)-1.
#### 9.2.2.12 Reserved 2 (R2)
Length: 1 bit
This bit in the Piggybacked STATUS PDU is used to make the Piggybacked STATUS
PDU a multiple of 8 bits in length and for this purpose it is coded as 0.
Otherwise the PDU is treated as invalid and hence shall be discarded by this
version of the protocol.
#### 9.2.2.13 Reset Sequence Number (RSN)
Length: 1 bit
This field is used to indicate the sequence number of the transmitted RESET
PDU. If this RESET PDU is a retransmission of the original RESET PDU then the
retransmitted RESET PDU would have the same RSN value as the original RESET
PDU. Otherwise it will have the next RSN value. The initial value of this
field is zero. The value of this field shall be reinitialised when the RLC is
re-established. It shall not be reinitialised when the RLC is reset.
#### 9.2.2.14 Hyper Frame Number Indicator (HFNI)
Length: 20 bit
This field is used to indicate the hyper frame number (HFN) to the peer
entity. With the aid of this field the HFN in UE and UTRAN can be
synchronised.
## 9.3 Protocol states
The content presented in this subclause is intended to support the definition
of the RLC protocol states only, and is not meant to specify or constrain the
implementation of the protocol.
### 9.3.1 State model for transparent mode entities
Figure 9.16 illustrates the state model for transparent mode RLC entities
(both transmitting and receiving). A transparent mode entity can be in one of
the following states.
#### 9.3.1.1 NULL State
In the NULL state the RLC entity does not exist and therefore it is not
possible to transfer any data through it.
Upon reception of a CRLC-CONFIG-Req from upper layers indicating
establishment, the RLC entity:
\- is created; and
\- enters the DATA_TRANSFER_READY state.
#### 9.3.1.2 DATA_TRANSFER_READY State
In the DATA_TRANSFER_READY state, transparent mode data can be exchanged
between the entities according to subclause 11.1.
Upon reception of a CRLC-CONFIG-Req from upper layer indicating release, the
RLC entity:
\- enters the NULL state; and
\- is considered as being terminated.
Figure 9.16: The state model for transparent mode entities
### 9.3.2 State model for unacknowledged mode entities
Figure 9.17 illustrates the state model for unacknowledged mode RLC entities
(both transmitting and receiving). An unacknowledged mode entity can be in one
of the following states.
#### 9.3.2.1 NULL State
In the NULL state the RLC entity does not exist and therefore it is not
possible to transfer any data through it.
Upon reception of a CRLC-CONFIG-Req from upper layer indicating establishment
the RLC entity:
\- is created; and
\- enters the DATA_TRANSFER_READY state.
#### 9.3.2.2 DATA_TRANSFER_READY State
In the DATA_TRANSFER_READY state, unacknowledged mode data can be exchanged
between the entities according to subclause 11.2.
Upon reception of a CRLC-CONFIG-Req from upper layer indicating release, the
RLC entity:
\- enters the NULL state; and
\- is considered as being terminated.
Upon reception of a CRLC-CONFIG-Req from upper layer indicating modification,
the RLC entity:
\- stays in the DATA_TRANSFER_READY state;
\- modifies only the protocol parameters and timers as indicated by upper
layers.
Upon reception of a CRLC-SUSPEND-Req from upper layers, the RLC entity:
\- enters the LOCAL_SUSPEND state.
#### 9.3.2.3 LOCAL_SUSPEND State
In the LOCAL_SUSPEND state, the RLC entity is suspended, i.e. it does not send
UMD PDUs with \"Sequence Number\" greater than or equal to a certain specified
value (see subclause 9.7.5).
Upon reception of a CRLC-CONFIG-Req from upper layer indicating release, the
RLC entity:
\- enters the NULL state; and
\- is considered as being terminated.
Upon reception of a CRLC-RESUME-Req from upper layers, the RLC entity:
\- enters the DATA_TRANSFER_READY state; and
\- resumes the data transmission.
Upon reception of a CRLC-CONFIG-Req from upper layer indicating modification,
the RLC entity:
\- stays in the LOCAL_SUSPEND state;
\- modifies only the protocol parameters and timers as indicated by upper
layers.
Figure 9.17: The state model for unacknowledged mode entities
### 9.3.3 State model for acknowledged mode entities
Figure 9.18 illustrates the state model for the acknowledged mode RLC entity
(both transmitting and receiving). An acknowledged mode entity can be in one
of the following states.
#### 9.3.3.1 NULL State
In the NULL state the RLC entity does not exist and therefore it is not
possible to transfer any data through it.
Upon reception of a CRLC-CONFIG-Req from upper layer indicating establishment,
the RLC entity:
\- is created; and
\- enters the DATA_TRANSFER_READY state.
#### 9.3.3.2 DATA_TRANSFER_READY State
In the DATA_TRANSFER_READY state, acknowledged mode data can be exchanged
between the entities according to subclause 11.3.
Upon reception of a CRLC-CONFIG-Req from upper layer indicating release, the
RLC entity:
\- enters the NULL state; and
\- is considered as being terminated.
Upon detection of an initiating condition for the RLC reset procedure
described in subclause 11.4.2, the RLC entity:
\- initiates the RLC reset procedure (see subclause 11.4); and
\- enters the RESET_PENDING state.
Upon reception of a RESET PDU, the RLC entity responds according to subclause
11.4.3.
Upon reception of a RESET ACK PDU, the RLC entity takes no action.
Upon reception of CRLC-SUSPEND-Req from upper layer, the RLC entity is
suspended and enters the LOCAL_SUSPEND state.
#### 9.3.3.3 RESET_PENDING State
In the RESET_PENDING state the entity waits for a response from its peer
entity and no data can be exchanged between the entities.
Upon reception of a CRLC-CONFIG-Req from upper layer indicating release, the
RLC entity:
\- enters the NULL state; and
\- is considered as being terminated.
Upon reception of a RESET ACK PDU with the same RSN value as in the
corresponding RESET PDU, the RLC entity:
\- acts according to subclause 11.4.4; and
\- enters the DATA_TRANSFER_READY state.
Upon reception of a RESET ACK PDU with a different RSN value as in the
corresponding RESET PDU, the RLC entity:
\- discards the RESET ACK PDU (see subclause 11.4.4); and
\- stays in the RESET_PENDING state.
Upon reception of a RESET PDU, the RLC entity:
\- responds according to subclause 11.4.3; and
\- stays in the RESET_PENDING state.
Upon reception of CRLC-SUSPEND-Req from upper layer, the RLC entity:
\- enters the RESET_AND_SUSPEND state.
Figure 9.18: The state model for the acknowledged mode entities
#### 9.3.3.4 LOCAL_SUSPEND State
In the LOCAL_SUSPEND state, the RLC entity is suspended, i.e. it does not send
AMD PDUs with \"Sequence Number\" greater than or equal to certain specified
value (see subclause 9.7.5).
Upon reception of CRLC-RESUME-Req from upper layers in this state, the RLC
entity:
\- resumes the data transmission; and
\- enters the DATA_TRANSFER_READY state.
Upon reception of CRLC-CONFIG-Req from upper layers indicating release, the
RLC entity:
\- enters the NULL state; and
\- is considered as being terminated.
Upon detection of an initiating condition for RLC reset procedure described in
subclause 11.4.2, the RLC entity:
\- initiates the RLC reset procedure (see subclause 11.4); and
\- enters the RESET_AND_SUSPEND state.
#### 9.3.3.5 RESET_AND_SUSPEND State
In the RESET_ AND_SUSPEND state, the entity waits for a response from its peer
entity or a primitive (CRLC-RESUME-Req) from its upper layer and no data can
be exchanged between the entities.
Upon reception of CRLC-CONFIG-Req from upper layer indicating release, the RLC
entity:
\- enters the NULL state; and
\- is considered as being terminated.
Upon reception of a RESET ACK PDU with the same RSN value as in the
corresponding RESET PDU, the RLC entity:
\- acts according to subclause 11.4.4; and
\- enters the LOCAL_SUSPEND state.
Upon reception of CRLC-RESUME-Req from upper layer in this state, the RLC
entity:
\- is resumed, i.e. releases the suspend constraint; and
\- enters the RESET_PENDING state.
## 9.4 State variables
The state variables defined in this subclause are normative.
This sub-clause describes the state variables used in AM and UM in order to
specify the peer-to-peer protocol. All state variables are non-negative
integers. UMD and AMD PDUs are numbered by modulo integer sequence numbers
(SN) cycling through the field: 0 to 212 -- 1 for AM and 0 to 2^7^ -- 1 for
UM. All arithmetic operations contained in the present document on VT(S),
VT(A), VT(MS), VR(R), VR(H) and VR(MR) are affected by the AM modulus. All
arithmetic operations contained in the present document on VT(US), VR(US),
VR(UDH), VR(UDR), VR(UOH) and VR(UM) are affected by the UM modulus. When
performing arithmetic comparisons of state variables or Sequence number values
a modulus base shall be used. This modulus base is subtracted (within the
appropriate field) from all the values involved and then an absolute
comparison is performed. At the Sender, VT(A) and VT(US) shall be assumed to
be the modulus base in AM and UM respectively. At the Receiver, VR(R) shall be
assumed to be the modulus base in AM and VR(US) shall be assumed to be the
modulus base in UM when neither the \"out of sequence SDU delivery\" nor the
\"duplicate avoidance and reordering\" function are configured. When \"out of
sequence SDU delivery\" is configured, (VR(UOH) -- OSD_Window_Size + 1) shall
be assumed to be the modulus base at the Receiver in UM; when the \"duplicate
avoidance and reordering\" function is configured, (VR(UDH) -- DAR_Window_Size
+ 1) shall be assumed to be the modulus base at the Receiver in UM.
The RLC shall maintain the following state variables in the Sender.
a) VT(S) - Send state variable.
This state variable contains the \"Sequence Number\" of the next AMD PDU to be
transmitted for the first time (i.e. excluding retransmitted PDUs). It shall
be updated after the aforementioned AMD PDU is transmitted or after
transmission of a MRW SUFI which includes SN_MRW~LENGTH~ >VT(S) (see subclause
11.6).
> The initial value of this variable is 0.
b) VT(A) - Acknowledge state variable.
This state variable contains the \"Sequence Number\" following the \"Sequence
Number\" of the last in-sequence acknowledged AMD PDU. This forms the lower
edge of the transmission window of acceptable acknowledgements. VT(A) shall be
updated based on the receipt of a STATUS PDU including an ACK (see subclause
9.2.2.11.2) and/or an MRW_ACK SUFI (see subclause 11.6).
The initial value of this variable is 0. For the purpose of initialising the
protocol, this value shall be assumed to be the first \"Sequence Number\"
following the last in-sequence acknowledged AMD PDU.
c) VT(DAT).
This state variable counts the number of times a AMD PDU has been scheduled to
be transmitted. There shall be one VT(DAT) for each PDU and each shall be
incremented every time the corresponding AMD PDU is scheduled to be
transmitted or every time a STATUS PDU containing the POLL SUFI is scheduled
to be transmitted and the sequence number of the corresponding AMD PDU is
equal to VT(S)-1.
The initial value of this variable is 0.
d) VT(MS) - Maximum Send state variable.
This state variable contains the \"Sequence Number\" of the first AMD PDU that
can be rejected by the peer Receiver, VT(MS) = VT(A) + VT(WS). This value
represents the upper edge of the transmission window. The transmitter shall
not transmit AMD PDUs with \"Sequence Number\" ≥ VT(MS) unless VT(S) ≥ VT(MS).
In that case, the AMD PDU with \"Sequence Number\" = VT(S) - 1 can also be
transmitted. VT(MS) shall be updated when VT(A) or VT(WS) is updated.
The initial value of this variable is Configured_Tx_Window_size.
e) VT(US) -- UM data state variable.
This state variable contains the \"Sequence Number\" of the next UMD PDU to be
transmitted. It shall be incremented by 1 each time a UMD PDU is transmitted.
The initial value of this variable is 0.
NOTE: For the UTRAN side, the initial value of this variable can be different
from 0.
f) VT(PDU).
This state variable is used when the \"poll every Poll_PDU PDU\" polling
trigger is configured. It shall be incremented by 1 for each AMD PDU that is
transmitted including both new and retransmitted AMD PDUs. When it becomes
equal to the value Poll_PDU, a new poll shall be transmitted and the state
variable shall be set to zero.
The initial value of this variable is 0.
g) VT(SDU).
This state variable is used when the \"poll every Poll_SDU SDU\" polling
trigger is configured. It shall be incremented by 1 for a given SDU when the
AMD PDU carrying the first segment of this SDU is scheduled to be transmitted
for the first time. When it becomes equal to the value Poll_SDU a new poll
shall be transmitted and the state variable shall be set to zero. The
\"Polling bit\" shall be set to \"1\" in the first transmission of the AMD PDU
that contains the last segment of an RLC SDU (indicated either by the \"Length
Indicator\" indicating the end of the SDU or by the special value of the HE
field).
The initial value of this variable is 0.
h) VT(RST) - Reset state variable.
This state variable is used to count the number of times a RESET PDU is
scheduled to be transmitted before the reset procedure is completed. VT(RST)
shall be incremented by 1 according to subclauses 11.4.2 and 11.4.5.1. VT(RST)
shall only be reset upon the reception of a RESET ACK PDU ( i.e. VT(RST) shall
not be reset when an RLC reset initiated by the peer RLC entity occurs) unless
otherwise specified in subclause 9.7.7.
The initial value of this variable is 0.
i) VT(MRW) -- MRW command send state variable.
This state variable is used to count the number of times a MRW command is
transmitted. VT(MRW) is incremented by 1 each time a timer Timer_MRW expires.
VT(MRW) shall be reset when the SDU discard with explicit signalling procedure
is terminated.
> The initial value of this variable is 0.
>
> j) VT(WS) -- Transmission window size state variable.
This state variable contains the size that shall be used for the transmission
window. VT(WS) shall be set equal to the WSN field when the transmitter
receives a STATUS PDU including a WINDOW SUFI.
The initial value of this variable is Configured_Tx_Window_size.
The RLC shall maintain the following state variables in the Receiver:
a) VR(R) - Receive state variable.
This state variable contains the \"Sequence Number\" following that of the
last in-sequence AMD PDU received. It shall be updated upon the receipt of the
AMD PDU with \"Sequence Number\" equal to VR(R).
The initial value of this variable is 0. For the purpose of initialising the
protocol, this value shall be assumed to be the first \"Sequence Number\"
following the last in-sequence received AMD PDU.
b) VR(H) - Highest expected state variable.
This state variable contains the \"Sequence Number\" following the highest
\"Sequence Number\" of any AMD PDU received or identified to be missing.. When
a AMD PDU is received with \"Sequence Number\" x or a POLL SUFI is received
with POLL_SN=x such that VR(H)≤x\ This state variable contains the \"Sequence Number\" of the highest numbered
> UMD PDU that has been received.
>
> The initial value of this variable is set according to subclause 11.2.3.2.
f) VR(UDR) --UM duplicate avoidance and reordering send state variable.
> This state variable contains the \"Sequence Number\" of the next UMD PDU
> that is expected to be received in sequence. Its value is set according to
> subclause 9.7.10.
>
> The initial value of this variable is set according to subclause 9.7.10.
g) VR(UDH) -- UM duplicate avoidance and reordering highest received state
variable.
> This state variable contains the \"Sequence Number\" of the highest numbered
> UMD PDU that has been received by the duplicate avoidance and reordering
> function.
>
> The initial value of this variable is set according to 9.7.10.
h) VR(UDT) -- UM duplicate avoidance and reordering timer state variable.
> This state variable contains the sequence number of the UMD PDU associated
> with Timer_DAR when the timer is running. Its value is set according to
> subclause 9.7.10.
i) VR(UM) - Maximum acceptable Receive state variable.
> This state variable contains the \"Sequence Number\" of the first UMD PDU
> that shall be rejected by the Receiver, VR(UM) = VR(US) +
> Configured_Rx_Window_Size. This state variable is only applicable when out-
> of-sequence reception is configured by higher layers.
j) VR(X) -- Timer_Reordering state variable
> This state variable holds the value of SN following the SN of the RLC data
> PDU which triggered Timer_Reordering.
>
> The initial value of this variable is set according to 11.3.3.
k) VR(MS) -- Maximum STATUS transmit variable
> This state variable holds the highest possible value of the SN which can be
> indicated by LSN when a STATUS PDU needs to be constructed.
>
> The initial value of this variable is 0.
## 9.5 Timers
The timers defined in this subclause are normative. The timers shall be
considered active from the time they are started until the time they either
expire or are stopped.
a) Timer_Poll.
This timer shall only be used when so configured by upper layers. The value of
the timer is signalled by upper layers. In the UE this timer shall be started
(or restarted) when the successful or unsuccessful transmission of a poll is
indicated by lower layer. In UTRAN it should be started when a poll is
submitted to lower layer. If x is the value of the state variable VT(S) after
the poll was submitted to lower layer, the timer shall be stopped upon
receiving:
\- positive acknowledgements for all the AMD PDUs with \"Sequence Number\" up
to and including x - 1; or
\- a negative acknowledgement for the AMD PDU with \"Sequence Number\" = x -
1.
If the timer expires and no STATUS PDU fulfilling the criteria above has been
received:
\- the Receiver shall be polled once more;
\- the timer shall be restarted; and
\- the new value of VT(S) shall be saved.
If a new poll is sent when the timer is active, the timer shall be restarted
at the time specified above, and the value of VT(S) shall be saved.
b) Timer_Poll_Prohibit.
This timer shall only be used when so configured by upper layers. It is used
to prohibit transmission of polls within a certain period. The value of the
timer is signalled by upper layers.
In the UE this timer shall be started (or restarted) when the successful or
unsuccessful transmission of a poll is indicated by lower layer. In UTRAN it
should be started when a poll is submitted to lower layer.
From the time a poll is triggered until the timer expires, polling is
prohibited. If another poll is triggered while polling is prohibited, its
transmission shall be delayed until the timer expires (see subclause 9.7.1).
Only one poll shall be transmitted when Timer_Poll_Prohibit expires even if
several polls were triggered in the meantime. This timer shall not be affected
by the reception of STATUS PDUs.
When Timer_Poll_Prohibit is not configured by upper layers, polling is never
prohibited.
c) Void
d) Timer_Discard.
This timer shall be used when timer-based SDU discard is configured by upper
layers. The value of the timer is signalled by upper layers. In the
transmitter, a new timer is started upon reception of an SDU from upper layer.
In UM/TM, if a timer expires before the corresponding SDU is submitted to
lower layer, \"SDU discard without explicit signalling\" specified in
subclauses 11.2.4.3 and 11.1.4.2 shall be initiated. In AM, if a timer expires
before the corresponding SDU is acknowledged, \"SDU discard with explicit
signalling\" specified in subclause 11.6 shall be initiated.
e) Timer_Poll_Periodic.
This timer shall only be used when \"timer based polling\" is configured by
upper layers. The value of the timer is signalled by upper layers. The timer
shall be started when the RLC entity is created. When the timer expires, the
RLC entity shall:
\- restart the timer;
\- if AMD PDUs are available for transmission or retransmission (not yet
acknowledged):
\- trigger a poll.
f) Timer_Status_Prohibit.
This timer shall only be used when so configured by upper layers. It is meant
to prohibit the Receiver from sending consecutive acknowledgement status
reports. A status report is an acknowledgement status report if it contains
any of the SUFIs LIST, BITMAP, RLIST or ACK. The value of the timer is
signalled by upper layers.
In the UE, this timer shall be started (or restarted) when the successful or
unsuccessful transmission of the last STATUS PDU of an acknowledgement status
report is indicated by lower layer. In UTRAN it should be started when the
last STATUS PDU of an acknowledgement status report is submitted to lower
layer.
From the time an acknowledgement status report is triggered until the
Timer_Status_Prohibit timer expires, acknowledgement is prohibited. If another
such status report is triggered while acknowledgement is prohibited, its
transmission shall be delayed until the timer expires (see subclause 9.7.2).
The status report may be updated during this time. The transmission of SUFIs
MRW, MRW_ACK, WINDOW or NO_MORE is not restricted.
When Timer_Status_Prohibit is not configured by upper layers, acknowledgment
is not prohibited.
g) Timer_Status_Periodic.
This timer shall only be used when timer based status reporting is configured
by upper layers.
This timer shall be started when the RLC entity is created. When the timer
expires the transmission of a status report shall be triggered and the timer
shall be restarted. This timer can be blocked by upper layers. The timer shall
be restarted when upper layers indicate that it is no longer blocked.
h) Timer_RST.
This timer is meant to handle the loss of a RESET PDU by the peer entity, or
the loss of a RESET ACK PDU from the peer entity. The value of the timer is
signalled by upper layers.
In the UE this timer shall be started (or restarted) when the successful or
unsuccessful transmission of a RESET PDU is indicated by lower layer. In UTRAN
it should be started when a RESET PDU is submitted to lower layer.
Timer_RST shall only be stopped upon reception of a RESET ACK PDU (with same
RSN as RESET PDU), i.e. this timer shall not be stopped when an RLC reset
initiated by the peer RLC entity occurs. If this timer expires, the RESET PDU
shall be retransmitted.
i) Timer_MRW.
This timer is used to trigger the retransmission of a status report containing
an MRW SUFI field. The value of the timer is signalled by upper layers.
In the UE this timer shall be started (or restarted) when the successful or
unsuccessful transmission of a STATUS PDU containing the MRW SUFI is indicated
by lower layer. In UTRAN, it should be started when a STATUS PDU containing
the MRW SUFI is submitted to lower layer.
Each time the timer expires the MRW SUFI is retransmitted. It shall be stopped
when one of the termination criteria for the SDU discard with explicit
signalling procedure is fulfilled (see subclause 11.6.4).
j) Timer_OSD
> This timer is used with UM out of sequence SDU delivery. It is used to
> trigger the deleting of stored PDUs.
>
> The timer is started and stopped according to subclause 11.2.3.2.
k) Timer_DAR
> This timer is used with the UM duplicate avoidance and reordering function.
> It is used to trigger the transfer of PDUs to the next in sequence UM RLC
> receiver function.
>
> The timer is started and stopped according to subclause 9.7.10.
l) Timer_Reordering
> This timer shall only be used when so configured by upper layers.
>
> The timer is started and stopped according to 11.3.3. There is only one
> Timer_Reordering running at a given time. While it is running, any positive
> or negative acknowledgment is prohibited. The status report may be updated
> during this time.
## 9.6 Protocol Parameters
The behaviour defined in this subclause is normative. The values of the
protocol parameters defined in this subclause are signalled by upper layers.
a) MaxDAT.
The maximum number of transmissions of an AMD PDU is equal to MaxDAT -- 1\.
This protocol parameter represents the upper limit for state variable VT(DAT).
When VT(DAT) equals the value MaxDAT, either RLC RESET procedure or SDU
discard procedure shall be initiated according to the configuration by upper
layers.
b) Poll_PDU.
This protocol parameter indicates how often the transmitter shall poll the
Receiver in the case where \"polling every Poll_PDU PDU\" is configured by
upper layers. It represents the upper limit for the state variable VT(PDU).
When VT(PDU) equals the value Poll_PDU a poll shall be transmitted to the peer
entity.
c) Poll_SDU.
This protocol parameter indicates how often the transmitter shall poll the
Receiver in the case where \"polling every Poll_SDU SDU\" is configured by
upper layers. It represents the upper limit for state variable VT(SDU). When
VT(SDU) equals the value Poll_SDU a poll shall be transmitted to the peer
entity.
d) Poll_Window.
This protocol parameter indicates when the transmitter shall poll the Receiver
in the case where \"window-based polling\" is configured by upper layers. A
poll is triggered for each AMD PDU when J ≥ Poll_Window, where J is the
transmission window percentage defined as:
> where the constant 4096 is the modulus for AM described in subclause 9.4 and
> VT(S) is the value of the variable before the AMD PDU is submitted to lower
> layer.
e) MaxRST.
The maximum number of transmissions of a RESET PDU is equal to MaxRST -- 1\.
This protocol parameter represents the upper limit for state variable VT(RST).
When VT(RST) equals the value MaxRST, unrecoverable error shall be indicated
to upper layers.
f) Configured_Tx_Window_Size.
This protocol parameter indicates both the maximum allowed transmission window
size and the value for the state variable VT(WS).
g) Configured_Rx_Window_Size.
This protocol parameter indicates the reception window size. This parameter is
applicable both for RLC UM and AM. This parameter is only configured for RLC-
UM in case out-of-sequence reception is supported.
h) MaxMRW.
The maximum number of transmissions of an MRW command is equal to MaxMRW. This
protocol parameter represents the upper limit for state variable VT(MRW). When
VT(MRW) equals the value MaxMRW, the RLC RESET procedure shall be initiated.
i) OSD_Window_Size.
This protocol parameter indicates the size of the out of sequence SDU delivery
storage window.
j) DAR_Window_Size.
This protocol parameter indicates the size of the duplicate avoidance and
reordering receive window.
## 9.7 Specific functions
The functions defined in this subclause are normative.
### 9.7.1 Polling function for acknowledged mode
The Polling function is used by the Sender to request the peer RLC entity for
a status report. The \"Polling bit\" in the AMD PDU or the POLL SUFI indicate
the poll request. There are several triggers for initiating the Polling
function. Which of the triggers shall be used is configured by upper layers
for each RLC entity. The following triggers can be configured:
1) Last PDU in buffer.
When an AMD PDU to be transmitted for the first time is submitted to lower
layer, the Sender shall:
\- if the AMD PDU is the last AMD PDU scheduled for transmission according to
subclause 11.3.2 (i.e. no data received from upper layer remains to be
segmented into AMD PDUs); or
\- if the AMD PDU is the last AMD PDU that is allowed to transmit according to
subclause 11.3.2.2:
\- trigger a poll for this AMD PDU.
2) Last PDU in Retransmission buffer.
When a retransmitted AMD PDU is submitted to lower layer, the Sender shall:
\- if the AMD PDU is the last AMD PDU scheduled for retransmission according
to subclause 11.3.2; or
\- if the AMD PDU is the last of the AMD PDUs scheduled for retransmission
that are allowed to transmit according to subclause 11.3.2.2:
\- trigger a poll for this AMD PDU.
3) Poll timer.
The timer Timer_Poll is started and stopped according to subclause 9.5 a).
When the timer Timer_Poll expires the Sender triggers the Polling function.
4) Every Poll_PDU PDU.
The Sender triggers the Polling function for every Poll_PDU PDU. Both
retransmitted and new AMD PDUs shall be counted.
5) Every Poll_SDU SDU.
The Sender triggers the Polling function for every Poll_SDU SDU. The poll
shall be triggered for the first transmission of the AMD PDU that contains the
last segment of an RLC SDU (indicated either by the \"Length Indicator\"
indicating the end of the SDU or by the special value of the HE field).
6) Window based.
The Sender triggers the Polling function when the condition described in
subclause 9.6 d) (\"Poll_Window\") is fulfilled.
7) Timer based.
The Sender triggers the Polling function periodically.
UTRAN should configure RLC to avoid deadlock situations.
The Poll Prohibit function is used by the Sender to delay the initiation of
the Polling function. Usage of the Poll Prohibit function is configured by
upper layers. The Poll Prohibit function consists of starting the timer
Timer_Poll_Prohibit according to subclause 9.5 b) and delaying the Polling
function according to the following rules:
When the Polling function is triggered, the Sender shall:
\- if polling is not prohibited (see subclause 9.5 b)); and
\- if there is one or more AMD PDUs to be transmitted or there are AMD PDUs
not acknowledged by the Receiver:
\- initiate the Polling function by setting the polling bit according to
subclause 11.3.2.1.1.
\- otherwise (if there is no PDU to be transmitted and all PDUs have already
been acknowledged):
\- not initiate the Polling function.
Upon expiry of the timer Timer_Poll_Prohibit, the Sender shall:
\- if the Polling function was triggered at least once while the timer
Timer_Poll_Prohibit was active; and
\- if there is one or more AMD PDUs to be transmitted or there are AMD PDUs
not acknowledged by the Receiver:
\- initiate the Polling function once by setting the polling bit according to
subclause 11.3.2.1.1.
\- otherwise (if there is no PDU to be transmitted and all PDUs have already
been acknowledged):
\- not initiate the Polling function.
NOTE 1: In downlink, UTRAN can initiate the Polling function by assembling a
POLL SUFI according to subclause 9.2.2.11.9 when \"flexible RLC PDU size\" in
downlink is configured.
NOTE 2: In uplink, the UE can initiate the Polling function by assembling a
POLL SUFI according to subclause 9.2.2.11.9 when \"flexible RLC PDU size\" in
uplink is configured.
### 9.7.2 STATUS transmission for acknowledged mode
The Receiver transmits status reports to the Sender in order to inform the
Sender about which AMD PDUs have been received and not received. Each status
report consists of one or several STATUS PDUs. The Receiver shall trigger the
transmission of a status report when receiving a poll request. Additionally,
the following triggers for transmission of status reports are configurable by
upper layers:
1) Detection of missing PDU(s).
If the Receiver detects one or several missing AMD PDUs it shall trigger the
transmission of a status report to the Sender.
2) Timer based status report transfer.
The Receiver triggers the transmission of a status report to the Sender
periodically. The timer Timer_Status_Periodic controls the time period
according to subclause 9.5 g). When \"Periodical Status blocking\" is
configured by upper layers, the trigger shall not be active.
3) Void
There are several functions that can prohibit the Receiver from sending a
status report containing any of the SUFIs LIST, BITMAP, RLIST or ACK. Status
reports containing other SUFIs are not prohibited. Upper layers control which
functions should be used for each RLC entity. If any of the following
functions is used the transmission of the status report shall be delayed, even
if any of the triggering conditions above are fulfilled:
1) STATUS prohibit.
The timer Timer_Status_Prohibit is started according to subclause 9.5 f). The
Receiver is not allowed to transmit a status report while acknowledgement is
prohibited (see subclause 9.5 f)). If a status report was triggered during
this time, the status report is transmitted after the timer
Timer_Status_Prohibit has expired, as described below.
2) Void
3) Timer_Reordering
The timer Timer_Reordering is started according to subclause 11.3.3. The
receiver is not allowed to transmit a status report while the timer is
running. If a status report was triggered during this time, the status report
is transmitted after the timer Timer_Reordering has expired, as described
below.
When a status report is triggered the Receiver shall:
\- if transmission of status reports is not prohibited by any of the functions
\"STATUS prohibit\" or \"Timer_Reordering\":
\- assemble and transmit the status report to the Sender, as specified in
subclauses 11.5.2.2 and 11.5.2.3.
\- otherwise (if the status report is prohibited by at least one of the
functions \"STATUS prohibit\"):
\- if MRW, MRW_ACK, WINDOW or POLL SUFIs are required in the status report:
\- send a status report immediately excluding ACK, LIST, BITMAP, and RLIST
SUFIs;
\- if ACK, LIST, BITMAP, or RLIST SUFIs are required in the status report:
\- delay sending these SUFIs until the prohibit function terminates.
Upon expiry of the timer Timer_Status_Prohibit, the Receiver shall:
\- if at least one status report was triggered during the time the
transmission of a status reports was prohibited that could not be transmitted
due to prohibition; and
\- if transmission of a status reports is no longer prohibited by any of the
functions \"STATUS prohibit\" or \"Timer_Reordering\":
\- transmit one status report to the Sender, using the procedure described in
subclause 11.5.2.3.
Upon expiry of the timer Timer_Reordering, the Receiver shall:
\- if at least one status report was triggered during the time the
transmission of a status reports was prohibited that could not be transmitted
due to prohibition; and
\- if transmission of a status reports is no longer prohibited by any of the
functions \"STATUS prohibit\" or \"Timer_Reordering\":
\- update VR(MS) to the SN of the first AMD PDU with SN >= VR(X) which has not
been received;
\- transmit one status report to the Sender, using the procedure described in
subclause 11.5.2.3.
\- if VR(H) > VR(MS):
\- start Timer_Reordering;
\- set VR(X) to VR(H).
### 9.7.3 SDU discard function for acknowledged, unacknowledged, and
transparent mode
The SDU discard function is used by the Sender to discharge RLC PDUs from the
RLC PDU buffer, when the transmission of the RLC PDUs does not succeed for a
period of time or for a number of transmissions. The SDU discard function
allows to avoid buffer overflow. There are several alternative operation modes
of the RLC SDU discard function. Upper layers control, which discard function
shall be used for each RLC entity.
The following is a list of operation modes for the RLC SDU discard function,
which are described in detail in the subsequent subclauses.
Table 9.2: List of criteria that control when to perform SDU discard
* * *
Operation mode Presence Timer based discard, with explicit signalling Network
controlled Timer based discard, without explicit signalling Network controlled
SDU discard after MaxDAT number of transmissions Network controlled No_discard
after MaxDAT number of transmissions Network controlled
* * *
#### 9.7.3.1 Timer based discard, with explicit signalling
This alternative is only applicable to RLC entities operating in acknowledged
mode. It uses a timer based triggering of SDU discard (Timer_Discard). This
makes the SDU discard function insensitive to variations in the channel rate
and provides means for exact definition of maximum delay. However, the SDU
loss rate of the connection is increased as SDUs are discarded.
For every SDU received from upper layers, the Sender shall:
\- start a timer Timer_Discard.
When the timer Timer_Discard of a SDU expires, the Sender shall:
\- discard the SDU;
\- if \"Send MRW\" is configured, or one or more segments of the discarded SDU
were submitted to the lower layer:
\- utilise explicit signalling to inform the Receiver according to subclause
11.6.
NOTE: The support of the configuration \"Send MRW\" and the functionality
connected with this configuration is implementation dependent.
#### 9.7.3.2 Timer based discard, without explicit signalling
This alternative is only applicable to RLC entities operating in
unacknowledged or transparent mode. It uses the same timer based trigger for
SDU discard (Timer_Discard) as the one described in the subclause 9.7.3.1. The
difference is that this discard method does not use any peer-to-peer
signalling.
For every SDU received from upper layers, the Sender shall:
\- start timer monitoring of the transmission time of the SDU.
When the transmission time exceeds the configured value for a SDU, the Sender
shall:
\- discard the SDU without explicit signalling (for RLC entities operating in
unacknowledged mode apply subclause 11.2.4.3 for updating the state
variables).
#### 9.7.3.3 SDU discard after MaxDAT number of transmissions
This alternative uses the number of transmissions as a trigger for SDU
discard, and is therefore only applicable for acknowledged mode RLC. This
makes the SDU discard function dependent on the channel rate. Also, this
variant of the SDU discard function strives to keep the SDU loss rate constant
for the connection, on the cost of a variable delay.
If the number of times an AMD PDU is scheduled for transmission reaches
MaxDAT, the Sender shall:
\- discard all SDUs that have segments or \"Length Indicators\" indicating the
end of the SDUs in the AMD PDU; and
\- utilise explicit signalling to inform the Receiver according to clause
11.6.
#### 9.7.3.4 No_discard after MaxDAT number of transmissions
This alternative uses the number of transmissions, and is therefore only
applicable for acknowledged mode RLC.
If the number of times an AMD PDU is scheduled for transmission reaches
MaxDAT, the Sender shall:
\- initiate the RLC Reset procedure (see subclause 11.3.4.4).
#### 9.7.3.5 SDU discard not configured
If SDU discard has not been configured for an unacknowledged mode RLC entity,
SDUs in the transmitter shall not be discarded unless the Transmission buffer
is full.
When the Transmission buffer in an unacknowledged mode RLC entity is full, the
Sender may:
\- if segments of the SDU to be discarded have been submitted to lower layer:
\- discard the SDU without explicit signalling according to subclause
11.2.4.3.
\- otherwise, if no segments of the SDU to be discarded have been submitted to
lower layer:
\- remove the SDU from the Transmission buffer without utilising any of the
discard procedures.
If SDU discard has not been configured for a transparent mode RLC entity, the
Sender shall upon reception of new SDUs from upper layer:
\- discard all SDUs received from upper layer in previous TTIs that are not
yet submitted to lower layer;
\- submit the new SDUs in the first possible TTI.
For an acknowledged mode RLC entity, an SDU discard mode is always configured.
### 9.7.4 Void
### 9.7.5 Local Suspend function for acknowledged and unacknowledged mode
The upper layers may suspend an RLC entity.
When an RLC entity operating in unacknowledged mode is suspended by upper
layers with the parameter N, the RLC entity shall:
\- acknowledge the suspend request with a confirmation containing the current
value of VT(US);
\- not send UMD PDUs with \"Sequence Number\" SN≥VT(US)+N.
When an RLC entity operating in acknowledged mode is suspended by upper layers
with the parameter N, the RLC entity shall:
\- acknowledge the suspend request with a confirmation containing the current
value of VT(S);
\- not send AMD PDUs with \"Sequence Number\" SN≥VT(S)+N.
When an RLC entity operating in unacknowledged mode is resumed by upper
layers, the RLC entity shall:
\- resume data transfer procedure.
When an RLC entity operating in acknowledged mode is resumed by upper layers,
the RLC entity shall:
\- if the RLC entity is suspended and a RLC Reset procedure is not ongoing:
\- resume data transfer procedure.
\- otherwise, if the RLC entity is suspended and a RLC Reset procedure is
ongoing:
\- remove the suspend constraint;
\- resume the RLC reset procedure according to subclause 11.4.
### 9.7.6 RLC Stop, RLC Continue function for acknowledged and unacknowledged
mode
The upper layer may stop an RLC entity.
When an RLC entity is stopped, the RLC timers are not affected.
When a RLC entity is stopped by upper layers, the RLC entity shall:
\- not submit any RLC PDUs to lower layer or receive any RLC PDUs;
\- delay triggered Polling functions or status transmissions until the RLC
entity is continued.
NOTE: If the TFC selection exchange has been initiated by sending the RLC
Entity Info parameter to MAC, the RLC entity may delay the stop function until
the end of the next TTI.
When a RLC entity is continued by upper layers, the RLC entity shall:
\- if the RLC entity is stopped:
\- continue the data transmission and reception;
\- process the triggered Polling functions and status transmissions.
\- otherwise, if the RLC is not stopped:
\- take no action.
### 9.7.7 RLC re-establishment function for acknowledged and unacknowledged
mode
RLC re-establishment is performed upon request by upper layers.
The RLC re-establishment function is applicable for AM or UM RLC. For UM, the
whole RLC entity is re-established. For AM, upper layers may request re-
establishment of the whole RLC entity or only the transmitting or receiving
side of the RLC entity.
When an UM RLC entity is re-established by upper layers, the RLC entity shall:
\- reset the state variables to their initial value;
\- set the configurable parameters to their configured value;
\- set the hyper frame number (HFN) to the value configured by upper layers;
\- if it is a receiving UM RLC entity:
\- discard all UMD PDUs.
\- stop all timers;
\- if it is a transmitting UM RLC entity:
\- discard the RLC SDUs for which one or more segments have been submitted to
a lower layer;
\- if requested:
\- inform the upper layers of the discarded SDUs.
\- not stop Timer_Discard if the RLC SDU is not discarded.
When the transmitting and/or receiving side of an AM RLC entity is re-
established by upper layers, the RLC entity shall:
\- if the receiving side of the RLC entity is re-established:
\- reset the state variables specified for the receiver in subclause 9.4 to
their initial values;
\- set the configurable parameters applicable for the receiving side in
subclause 9.6 to their configured values;
\- set the hyper frame number (HFN) in the receiving side (DL in the UE) to
the value configured by upper layers;
\- discard the AMD PDUs in the receiving side.
\- if only the receiving side of the RLC entity is re-established:
\- discard acknowledgement status report, WINDOW SUFI and MRW_ACK SUFI in all
STATUS PDUs and piggybacked STATUS PDUs, RESET PDU and RESET ACK PDU (i.e.
discard all control PDUs except MRW SUFI and POLL SUFI);
\- if an RLC reset procedure is ongoing (i.e. Timer_RST is running):
\- stop Timer_RST;
\- abort the ongoing RLC reset procedure;
\- reset VT(RST);
\- restart a new RLC reset procedure after the RLC re-establishment
terminates.
\- stop Timer_Status_Prohibit;
\- for the remaining control PDUs and SUFI that were scheduled for
transmission before re-establishment but were not delivered to lower layer:
\- assemble the control PDUs and SUFIs that were not discarded into new
control PDUs with the configured RLC PDU size;
\- schedule the new control PDUs for transmission.
\- if the transmitting side of the RLC entity is re-established:
\- reset the state variables specified for the sender in subclause 9.4 to
their initial values;
\- set the configurable parameters applicable for the transmitting side in
subclause 9.6 to their configured values;
\- set the hyper frame number (HFN) in the transmitting side (UL in the UE) to
the value configured by upper layers;
\- discard SDUs in the transmitting side that have been completely transmitted
(the AMD PDUs containing segments of the SDU and the \"Length Indicator\"
indicating the end of the SDU have been transmitted);
\- the UE may also discard partially transmitted SDUs (at least one AMD PDU
containing a segment of the SDU has been transmitted);
\- segment the SDUs that were not discarded into AMD PDUs with the configured
RLC PDU size (that may be different from the size before the re-
establishment);
\- if only the transmitter side of the RLC entity is re-established:
\- discard MRW SUFI and POLL SUFI in all STATUS PDUs and piggybacked STATUS
PDUs, RESET PDU and RESET ACK PDU (i.e. discard all control PDUs except
acknowledgement status report, WINDOW SUFI and MRW_ACK SUFI);
\- for the remaining control PDUs and SUFI that were scheduled for
transmission before re-establishment but were not delivered to lower layer:
\- assemble the control PDUs and SUFIs that were not discarded into new
control PDUs with the configured RLC PDU size;
\- schedule the control PDUs for transmission.
\- if an RLC reset procedure is ongoing (i.e. Timer_RST is running):
\- stop Timer_RST;
\- abort the ongoing RLC reset procedure;
\- restart a new RLC reset procedure after the RLC re-establishment
terminates.
\- stop Timer_Poll, Timer_MRW and Timer_Poll_Prohibit.
\- if both the transmitter and receiver side of the RLC entity is re-
established:
\- discard the control PDUs in both transmitting and receiving side and the
AMD PDUs in the transmitting side;
\- if an RLC reset procedure is ongoing (i.e. Timer_RST is running):
\- abort the ongoing RLC reset procedure.
\- stop all timers described in subclause 9.5 except Timer_Poll_Periodic and
Timer_Status_Periodic, and Timer_Discard for SDUs that have not been
discarded.
\- if requested:
\- inform the upper layers of the discarded SDUs.
NOTE: If the TFC selection exchange has been initiated by sending the RLC
Entity Info parameter to MAC, the RLC entity may delay the re-establishment
function until the end of the next TTI.
### 9.7.8 Ciphering for acknowledged and unacknowledged mode
The ciphering function is performed in RLC, according to the following rules
if a radio bearer is using a non-transparent RLC mode (AM or UM). The data
unit that is ciphered, depends on the transmission mode as described below.
\- For RLC UM mode, the ciphering unit is the UMD PDU excluding the first
octet, i.e. excluding the UMD PDU header. This is shown below in Figure 9.19.
Figure 9.19: Ciphering unit for a UMD PDU
\- For RLC AM mode, the ciphering unit is the AMD PDU excluding the first two
octets, i.e. excluding the AMD PDU header. This is shown below in Figure 9.20.
Figure 9.20: Ciphering unit for an AMD PDU
The ciphering algorithm and key to be used are configured by upper layers [8]
and the ciphering method shall be applied as specified in [9].
The parameters that are required by RLC for ciphering are defined in [9] and
are input to the ciphering algorithm. The parameters required by RLC which are
provided by upper layers [8] are listed below:
\- RLC AM HFN (Hyper frame number for radio bearers that are mapped onto RLC
AM);
\- RLC UM HFN (Hyper frame number for radio bearers that are mapped onto RLC
UM);
\- BEARER (defined as the radio bearer identifier in [9]. It will use the
value RB identity --1 as in [8]);
\- CK (Ciphering Key).
### 9.7.9 Reconfiguration of RLC parameters by upper layers
The RLC parameters for an RLC entity may be reconfigured (modified) by upper
layers.
When an RLC parameter is reconfigured by the upper layer, the UE shall:
\- start using the reconfigured value of the RLC parameter.
If the parameter Configured_Rx_Window_Size is reconfigured:
\- the UE shall update the state variable VR(UM), (see clause 9.4);
> \- the UE shall update the state variable VR(MR), (see clause 9.4);
\- for AMD PDUs with \"Sequence Number\" x such that VR(MR)\ \- the UE may discard these AMD PDUs; if discarded, the state variable VR(H)
> should be updated accordingly;
>
> \- consider the discarded AMD PDUs as not having been received.
If the parameter Configured_Tx_Window_Size is reconfigured:
> \- the UE shall set the state variable VT(WS) equal to the
> Configured_Tx_Window_Size;
>
> \- the UE shall update the state variable VT(MS), (see subclause 9.4);
>
> \- for AMD PDUs with \"Sequence Number\" x such that VT(MS)\
> \- the UE shall not discard any AMD PDUs that are not positively
> acknowledged;
>
> \- the UE may discard AMD PDUs that are positively acknowledged.
>
> When the transmission window size or the reception window size is
> reconfigured the required buffer memory may temporarily exceed the size of
> the configured window and thus exceed the available buffer memory (see
> subclause 11.3.4.9).
If the parameter OSD_Window_Size is reconfigured:
\- the UE shall remove from storage any PDUs whose sequence numbers, SN, are
outside of the storage window VR(UOH) [>=]{.underline} SN > VR(UOH) --
OSD_Window_Size.
If the parameter DAR_Window_Size is reconfigured:
\- the UE shall remove from storage any PDUs whose sequence numbers are
outside of the storage window and deliver them to the higher RLC function to
perform reassembly specified in subclause 11.2.3 and update the state variable
VR(UDR) as specified in subclause 9.7.10;
\- the UE shall update the state variables VR(UDT) and operate the timer
Timer_DAR if needed (see subclause 9.7.10).
### 9.7.10 Duplicate avoidance and reordering for unacknowledged mode
The duplicate avoidance and reordering function can be configured for use
within a receiving UM RLC entity in the UE. It combines PDU sequences received
from several sources and/or repeat transmissions from a single source to form
a single ordered PDU sequence that is passed to the header removal and
reassembly functions. It completes duplicate detection, discard and re-
ordering based on the UM PDU sequence number. Where the UM RLC receives input
from several sources, inputs can be added or removed without changing the
buffer contents, state variables and timers associated with the duplicate
avoidance and reordering function or any subsequent UM RLC function.
The duplicate avoidance and reordering function makes use of the state
variable VR(UDR) and a receive window whose span is from VR(UDH) --
DAR_Window_Size + 1 to VR(UDH) inclusively. For re-ordering the function uses
a buffer for the temporary storage of PDUs.
For each PDU received, the duplicate avoidance and reordering function shall
(in the following SN denotes the sequence number of each PDU):
Setting initial values of state variables:
> \- If the PDU is the first PDU received by the duplicate avoidance and
> reordering function after establishment or re-establishment:
>
> \- VR(UDH) is assigned the value SN;
>
> \- VR(UDR) is assigned the value VR(UDH) -- DAR_Window_Size + 1.
Duplicate detection and re-ordering:
> \- if SN is within the receive window:
>
> \- if SN \ the buffer:
>
> \- the PDU shall be discarded;
>
> \- else:
>
> \- the PDU shall be stored in the buffer.
>
> \- if SN is outside of the receive window:
>
> \- the PDU shall be stored in the buffer;
>
> \- VR(UDH) shall be assigned the value SN, thereby advancing the receive
> window;
>
> \- for any stored PDUs with sequence numbers \ 1, i.e. outside the receive window after its position is updated, remove the
> PDU from the buffer and deliver them to the higher RLC function to perform
> the actions specified in subclause 11.2.3;
>
> \- if VR(UDR) \ updated receive window;
>
> \- VR(UDR) shall be assigned the value VR(UDH) -- DAR_Window_Size + 1.
>
> \- if PDU with sequence number VR(UDR) is stored in the buffer:
>
> \- for this PDU and any sequence of stored PDUs with consecutive sequence
> numbers starting at VR(UDR) + 1, remove the PDUs from the buffer and deliver
> them to the higher RLC function to perform the actions specified in
> subclause 11.2.3;
>
> \- VR(UDR) shall be assigned the value of x + 1 where x is the sequence
> number of the highest numbered PDU that was delivered to the higher RLC
> function.
Timer operation:
> \- if Timer_DAR is not active when a PDU is stored with SN > VR(UDR) by the
> duplicate avoidance and reordering function:
>
> \- Timer_DAR shall be started;
>
> \- VR(UDT) shall be assigned the value of the sequence number of the PDU.
>
> \- Timer_DAR shall be stopped:
>
> \- if the PDU with sequence number VR(UDT) is removed from the buffer before
> Timer_DAR expires.
>
> \- if Timer_DAR expires:
>
> \- for all stored PDUs with sequence numbers lower or equal to VR(UDT) and
> for any sequence of stored PDUs with consecutive sequence numbers starting
> at VR(UDT) + 1, remove the PDUs from the buffer and deliver them to the
> higher RLC function to perform the actions specified in subclause 11.2.3;
>
> \- VR(UDR) shall be assigned the value x + 1 where x is the sequence number
> of the highest numbered PDU that was delivered to the higher RLC function.
\- When Timer_DAR is stopped or expires, and there remain PDUs stored by the
duplicate avoidance and reordering function:
> \- Timer_DAR shall be started;
\- VR(UDT) shall be assigned the sequence number of the highest numbered
stored PDU.
# 10 Handling of unknown, unforeseen and erroneous protocol data
Errors and the handling of errors defined in this clause are normative.
## 10.1 Erroneous Sequence Number
A STATUS PDU or Piggybacked STATUS PDU including \"erroneous Sequence Number\"
is a STATUS PDU or Piggybacked STATUS PDU that contains:
\- a LIST, BITMAP or RLIST SUFI in which the \"Sequence Number\" of at least
one AMD PDU that is negatively acknowledged is outside the interval
VT(A)≤\"Sequence Number\"\ \- if \"out of sequence SDU delivery\" is configured:
\- perform the actions specified in subclause 11.2.3.2;
> \- else:
\- perform the actions specified in subclause 11.2.3.1.
#### 11.2.3.1 SDU discard and re-assembly
Upon delivery of a set of UMD PDUs from the lower layer or from the duplicate
avoidance and reordering subentity, the Receiver shall:
\- if out-of-sequence reception is configured and SN ≥ VR(UM):
\- discard the UMD PDU.
\- else:
\- update VR(US) according to each received UMD PDU (see subclause 9.4);
\- if the updating step of VR(US) is not equal to one (i.e. one or more UMD
PDUs are missing):
\- discard the SDUs that could have segments or \"Length Indicators\"
indicating the end of the SDUs in the missing UMD PDUs according to subclauses
9.2.2.8 and 9.2.2.9.
\- if the special \"Length Indicator\" \"1111 100\" or \"1111 1111 1111 100\"
is the first \"Length Indicator\" of a UMD PDU received on the downlink:
\- consider the first data octet in this UMD PDU as the first octet of an RLC
SDU.
> \- if the \"Extension bit\" indicates that the UMD PDU contains a complete
> SDU which is not segmented, concatenated or padded:
>
> \- consider the data part in this UMD PDU as one complete RLC SDU.
\- if the special \"Length Indicator\" \"1111 101\" or "1111 1111 1111 101" is
the first \"Length Indicator\" of a UMD PDU received on the downlink:
\- consider the first data octet in this UMD PDU as the first octet of an RLC
SDU and the last data octet as the last octet of the same RLC SDU.
\- if the special \"Length Indicator\" \"1111 1111 1111 010\" is the first
\"Length Indicator\" of a UMD PDU received on the downlink:
\- consider the first data octet in this UMD PDU as the first octet of an RLC
SDU and the second last data octet as the last octet of the same RLC SDU.
\- reassemble the received UMD PDUs into RLC SDUs;
\- submit the RLC SDUs to upper layers through the UM-SAP.
#### 11.2.3.2 Out of sequence SDU delivery
To enable the recovery of SDUs from UMD PDUs that are received in different
transmissions the receiving function shall store PDUs until all SDUs that are
associated with the PDU can be reconstructed or until they are discarded in
accordance with the procedures described below. SDUs are transferred to the
upper layers as soon as all PDUs that contain the segments of the SDU and the
\"Length Indicator\" indicating the end of the SDU have been received.
Upon delivery of a set of UMD PDUs from the lower layer, the Receiver shall
for each PDU (in the following SN denotes the sequence number of each PDU):
> \- If the PDU is the first PDU received (after the receiving entity is
> established or re-established or after Timer_OSD expires):
>
> \- VR(UOH) shall be assigned the value SN-1.
>
> \- if VR(UOH) [>]{.underline} SN > VR(UOH) -- OSD_Window_Size then:
>
> \- if a PDU with sequence number SN is already stored:
>
> \- discard the PDU;
>
> \- else:
>
> \- store the PDU in sequence number order.
>
> \- else:
>
> \- VR(UOH) shall be assigned the value SN, thereby advancing the storage
> window;
>
> \- store the PDU in sequence number order;
>
> \- remove from storage any PDUs whose sequence numbers, SN, are outside of
> the storage window VR(UOH) [>]{.underline} SN > VR(UOH) \-- OSD_Window_Size;
>
> \- if Timer_OSD is active then Timer_OSD shall be stopped;
>
> \- Timer_OSD shall be started.
>
> \- if a PDU with sequence number SN was stored:
>
> \- if the PDU contains one or more complete SDUs and/or if the PDU contains
> segments of SDUs for which all the remaining segments and length indicators
> are contained in stored PDUs:
>
> \- re-assemble the SDUs;
>
> \- submit the SDUs to upper layers through the UM-SAP;
>
> \- remove from storage any PDUs which do not contain any segment of a SDU
> that has not been re-assembled, and do not contain one of the special length
> indicators \"0000 000\", \"0000 0000 0000 000\" or \"1111 1111 1111 011\"
> that indicate the end of a SDU that has not been re-assembled.
NOTE 0: If PDUs are removed from storage after SDU recovery then retransmitted
PDUs may result in the duplicate transfer of SDUs to the higher layers.
> \- if Timer_OSD expires:
>
> \- remove from storage all stored PDUs.
NOTE 1: When configured for out of sequence SDU delivery, the transmitter
should consider the possibility that a loss of a number of 128 −
OSD_Window_Size consecutively numbered PDUs may result in an undetected
protocol error in the receiver, if the transmit state variable VT(US), at the
end of a time interval equal to the duration of Timer_OSD, is greater than 128
+ SN − OSD_Window_Size + 1, where SN is the lowest sequence number of any PDU
transmitted or retransmitted within that time interval.
NOTE 2: The transmitter should not concatenate within a single PDU, SDUs or
fractions of SDUs that contain MBMS Access Information messages with SDUs or
fractions of SDUs that contain other MCCH message types.
NOTE 3: SDUs are contained within consecutively numbered PDUs. To enable SDUs
containing MBMS Access Information messages to be transmitted at their
designated times, the transmitter may transmit PDUs out of sequence order.
NOTE 4: The transmitter should not transmit within a single PDU, SDUs or
fractions of SDUs that contain MBMS Access Information messages with the
special length indicator \"0000 000\",\"0000 0000 0000 000\", and \"1111 1111
1111 011\".
### 11.2.4 Abnormal cases
#### 11.2.4.1 Length Indicator value reserved for UMD PDU
Upon delivery by the lower layer of an UMD PDU that contains a \"Length
Indicator\" value specified to be reserved for UMD PDUs in this version of the
protocol, the Receiver shall:
\- ignore that UMD PDU.
#### 11.2.4.2 Invalid length indicator value
If the \"Length Indicator\" of an UMD PDU has a value that is larger than the
PDU size -- RLC header size and is not one of the predefined values listed in
the table of subclause 9.2.2.8, the Receiver shall:
\- ignore the UMD PDU.
#### 11.2.4.3 SDU discard without explicit signalling
Upon expiry of the timer Timer_Discard in the Sender, the Sender shall:
\- discard the associated SDU;
\- if requested:
\- inform the upper layers of the discarded SDU;
\- for the first UMD PDU to be transmitted after the discard operation, the
Sender shall:
\- increment VT(US) so that the \"Sequence Number\" field in this UMD PDU is
incremented with two compared with the previous UMD PDU;
\- fill the first data octet in this UMD PDU with the first octet of an RLC
SDU;
\- if the \"Extension bit\" does not indicate that the UMD PDU contains a
complete SDU which is not segmented, concatenated or padded:
\- set the first \"Length Indicator\" in this UMD PDU to indicate that the
previous RLC PDU was exactly filled with the last segment of an RLC SDU (to
avoid that the Receiver unnecessarily discards an extra SDU).
In the case where the TFC selection exchange has been initiated by sending the
RLC Entity Info parameter to MAC, the UE may wait until after it provides MAC
with the requested set of UMD PDUs before discarding the afore-mentioned SDU.
#### 11.2.4.4 Invalid PDU size
In the UE, if the \"DL RLC UM LI size\" is configured to 7 bits, if a received
UMD PDU has a size larger than 125 octets, the Receiver shall:
\- ignore that UMD PDU.
## 11.3 Acknowledged mode data transfer procedure
### 11.3.1 General
The acknowledged mode data transfer procedure is used for transferring data
between two RLC peer entities, which are operating in acknowledged mode. Data
is transferred from Sender to Receiver. This procedure should only apply to
RLC entities in DATA_TRANSFER_READY state or LOCAL_SUSPEND state. Figure 11.3
below illustrates the elementary procedure for acknowledged mode data
transfer.
The AMD PDUs shall be transmitted on the DCCH logical channel if the Sender is
located in the control plane and on the DTCH if it is located in the user
plane. One or several PDUs may be transmitted in each transmission time
interval (TTI) and MAC decides how many PDUs shall be transmitted in each TTI.
Figure 11.3: Acknowledged mode data transfer procedure
### 11.3.2 Transmission of AMD PDU
Upon a request of acknowledged mode data transfer from upper layers or upon
retransmission of AMD PDUs, the Sender shall:
\- when RLC SDUs are received from upper layers:
\- if \"fixed RLC PDU size\" has been configured:
\- segment, and if possible concatenate the RLC SDUs into AMD PDUs where the
fixed PDU size is configured by upper layer (see subclause 9.2.2.9);
\- if the last octet of the PDU is the last octet of an SDU and there is no
SDU concatenation inside the PDU, and the "use of the special value of the HE
field" has been configured by higher layers, set the HE field to indicate that
the last octet of the PDU is the last octet of an SDU (see subclause 9.2.2.7).
\- if \"flexible RLC PDU size\" has been configured:
\- the last segment of an RLC SDU shall be concatenated with the first segment
of the next RLC SDU in order to fill the data field at least up to the Minimum
UL RLC PDU size. If data to be transmitted is not enough to create an AMD PDU
of the minimum size, it is allowed to create an AMD PDU including all data to
be transmitted, even if the resulting size is smaller than the Minimum UL RLC
PDU size.
\- set a \"Length Indicator\" field for each SDU that ends in the AMD PDU
according to subclause 9.2.2.8, except for the SDUs where the end of the SDU
has been indicated by the HE field according to subclause 9.2.2.7;
\- if \"Timer based SDU Discard with explicit signalling\" is configured:
\- start a timer Timer_Discard for each SDU received from upper layer (see
subclause 9.7.3);
\- schedule the AMD PDUs for transmission;
\- for each AMD PDU which has been negatively acknowledged (see subclause
11.5.3):
\- if the \"Sequence Number\" of the AMD PDU is less than VT(MS):
\- schedule the AMD PDU for retransmission;
\- if a poll has been triggered by one of configured polling functions (see
subclause 9.7.1); and
\- if polling is not prohibited (see subclause 9.5); and
\- if no AMD PDU is scheduled for transmission or retransmission; and
\- if there is at least one PDU that has been transmitted, has not been
discarded and has not yet been acknowledged:
\- if the value of \"Configured_Tx_Window_Size\" is larger than or equal to
\"2048\":
\- select the AMD PDU with \"Sequence Number\" equal to VT(S)-1; or
\- assemble a POLL SUFI according to subclause 9.2.2.11.9 when \"flexible RLC
PDU size\" is configured;
\- otherwise if the \"Configured_Tx_Window_Size\" is less than \"2048\":
> \- select the AMD PDU with \"Sequence Number\" equal to VT(S)-1; or
>
> \- select an AMD PDU that has not been discarded and has not yet been
> acknowledged by the peer entity; or
>
> \- assemble a POLL SUFI according to subclause 9.2.2.11.9 when "flexible RLC
> PDU size" is configured;
\- if an AMD PDU was selected, schedule the selected AMD PDU for
retransmission (in order to transmit a poll), or if a POLL SUFI was assembled,
schedule a STATUS PDU containing the POLL SUFI for transmission:
\- if the timer Timer_Poll is configured:
\- start the timer Timer_Poll according to subclause 9.5.
NOTE 1: In downlink, if \"flexible RLC PDU size\" is configured, the UTRAN
should segment, and if possible concatenate the RLC SDUs into AMD PDUs with a
size not larger than the maximum RLC PDU size.
NOTE 2: In downlink, UTRAN can initiate the Polling function by assembling a
POLL SUFI when \"flexible RLC PDU size\" in downlink is configured. If a POLL
SUFI was assembled, UTRAN should schedule and submit to lower layer a STATUS
PDU containing the POLL SUFI.
NOTE 3: In uplink, the UE can initiate the Polling function by assembling a
POLL SUFI according to subclause 9.2.2.11.9 when \"flexible RLC PDU size\" in
uplink is configured. If a POLL SUFI was assembled, the UE should schedule and
submit to lower layer a STATUS PDU containing the POLL SUFI.
Each time an AMD PDU is scheduled for transmission or retransmission, the
Sender shall:
> \- increment the value of the corresponding VT(DAT);
>
> \- if VT(DAT) = MaxDAT:
\- perform the actions specified in subclause 11.3.3a;
> \- e1se:
\- notify the lower layer that data is available for transmission;
\- perform the actions specified in subclause 11.3.2.2.
In AM, a PDU shall be considered to be a padding PDU if it is:
\- an AMD PDU consisting only of an RLC Header with one \"Length Indicator\"
(indicating that the rest of the PDU is padding) and padding; or
\- a STATUS PDU consisting only of a NO_MORE SUFI.
#### 11.3.2.1 AMD PDU contents to set
If the AMD PDU is transmitted for the first time, the Sender shall:
\- set the \"Sequence Number\" field equal to VT(S);
\- if the last octet of the PDU is the last octet of an SDU and there is no
SDU concatenation inside the PDU, and the use of the special value of HE field
has been configured by higher layers, set the HE field to indicate that the
last octet of the PDU is the last octet of an SDU (see subclause 9.2.2.7)
\- set a \"Length Indicator\" field for each SDU that ends in the AMD PDU
according to subclause 9.2.2.8, except for the SDUs where the end of the SDU
has been indicated by the HE field according to subclause 9.2.2.7;
\- set the \"Polling bit\" to the value specified in subclause 11.3.2.1.1.
Otherwise if the AMD PDU is retransmitted:
\- use the same value of the \"Sequence Number\" field as in the original
transmission of the AMD PDU;
\- if the \"Length Indicator\" fields needed in the AMD PDU according to
subclause 9.2.2.8 has changed due to that a piggybacked STATUS PDU is included
in the AMD PDU or a piggybacked STATUS PDU was included in the previous
transmission of the AMD PDU:
\- update the \"Length Indicator\" fields according to 9.2.2.8.
\- set the \"Polling bit\" to the value specified in subclause 11.3.2.1.1.
##### 11.3.2.1.1 Setting of the Polling bit
The Sender shall:
\- if a poll has been triggered by one or several poll triggers (see subclause
9.7.1):
\- if polling is not prohibited, see subclause 9.5:
\- set the \"Polling bit\" in the AMD PDU header to \"1\";
\- otherwise:
\- set the \"Polling bit\" in the AMD PDU header to \"0\".
##### 11.3.2.1.2 Void
#### 11.3.2.2 Submission of AMD PDUs to lower layer
If one or more AMD PDUs have been scheduled for transmission or retransmission
according to subclause 11.3.2, the Sender shall:
\- not submit any AMD PDUs to lower layer that is not allowed to transmit. AMD
PDUs are only allowed to transmit:
\- if the AMD PDU has a \"Sequence Number\" \ VR(R):
\- start Timer_Reordering;
\- set VR(X) to VR(H).
\- if a received AMD PDU includes a \"Polling bit\" set to \"1\", or \"Missing
PDU Indicator\" is configured and the Receiver detects that a PDU is missing:
\- initiate the STATUS PDU transfer procedure;
\- reassemble the received AMD PDUs into RLC SDUs;
\- if \"In-Sequence Delivery\" is configured:
\- deliver the RLC SDUs in-sequence (i.e. in the same order as the RLC SDUs
were originally transmitted by the peer entity) to upper layers through the
AM-SAP.
\- otherwise:
\- deliver the RLC SDUs in arbitrary order to upper layers through the AM-SAP.
### 11.3.3a Reached maximum number of attempts
If VT(DAT) = MaxDAT, the Sender shall:
\- if \"No_discard after MaxDAT number of transmissions\" is configured:
\- initiate the RLC reset procedure, see subclause 11.4.
\- if \"SDU discard after MaxDAT number of transmissions\" is configured:
\- initiate the \"SDU discard with explicit signalling\" procedure for the
corresponding SDU, see subclause 11.6.
### 11.3.4 Abnormal cases
#### 11.3.4.1 Void
#### 11.3.4.2 Receiving an AMD PDU outside the reception window
Upon reception of an AMD PDU with \"Sequence Number\" outside the interval
VR(R)≤SN\ \- perform the actions specified in subclause 11.4.4a.
#### 11.4.5.2 Void
#### 11.4.5.3 Reception of the RESET PDU by the Sender
Upon reception of a RESET PDU, the Sender shall:
\- submit a RESET ACK PDU to the lower layer with the content set as specified
in subclause 11.4.3.1;
\- reset the state variables described in subclause 9.4 except VT(RST) to
their initial values;
\- stop all the timers described in subclause 9.5 except Timer_RST,
Timer_Discard, Timer_Poll_Periodic and Timer_Status_Periodic;
\- reset configurable parameters to their configured values;
\- discard all RLC PDUs in the receiving side of the AM RLC entity;
\- discard all RLC SDUs that were transmitted before the reset in the
transmitting side of the AM RLC entity;
\- if requested for the transmitting side:
\- inform the upper layers of the discarded SDUs.
\- set the HFN (DL HFN when the RESET PDU is received in UE or UL HFN when the
RESET PDU is received in UTRAN) equal to the HFNI field in the received RESET
PDU.
NOTE: If the TFC selection exchange has been initiated by sending the RLC
Entity Info parameter to MAC, the RLC entity may delay the RLC SDUs discard in
the transmitting side until the end of the next TTI.
## 11.5 STATUS report transfer procedure
### 11.5.1 General
The status report transfer procedure is used for transferring of status
information between two RLC peer entities, which are operating in acknowledged
mode. Figure 11.5 below illustrates the elementary procedure for status report
transfer. A status report consists of one or several STATUS PDUs.
In case two logical channels are configured in the uplink, only
acknowledgement status reports, MRW ACK SUFI and WINDOW SUFI shall be
transmitted on the second logical channel. In case two logical channels are
configured in the downlink, control PDUs can be transmitted on any of the two
logical channels.
The STATUS PDUs have higher priority than AMD PDUs.
Figure 11.5: Status report transfer procedure
### 11.5.2 Initiation
The Receiver shall:
\- if one of the following triggers is detected:
1) The \"Polling bit\" in a received AMD PDU is set to \"1\";
2) \"Missing PDU Indicator\" is configured and a missing AMD PDU is detected;
3) The \"Timer based STATUS transfer\" is configured and the timer
Timer_Status_Periodic has expired:
\- act on the trigger as specified in subclause 9.7.2.
4) Void
5) If the flexible RLC PDU size is configured and POLL SUFI is received:
\- consider that Poll_SN has been transmitted by the sender as specified in
subclause 9.4:
\- act on the trigger as specified in subclause 9.7.2.
#### 11.5.2.1 Piggybacked STATUS PDU
The Receiver may:
\- if STATUS PDU(s) to be sent fit into padding octets in AMD PDU(s) to be
sent:
\- piggyback a STATUS PDU on the AMD PDU to be sent.
Submission of a piggybacked STATUS PDU in an AMD PDU to the lower layer
follows the same rules as an ordinary STATUS PDU.
#### 11.5.2.2 STATUS PDU contents to set
On triggering of a status report, the Receiver shall:
\- if the \"STATUS prohibit\" is not active:
\- If Timer_Reordering is not configured:
\- include negative acknowledgements for all AMD PDUs detected as missing;
\- include an ACK SUFI positively acknowledging all AMD PDUs received up to at
least VR(R);
\- If Timer_Reordering is configured, for all SN such that VR(R) \VT(S):
\- update VT(S) to SN_MRW~LENGTH~.
\- start a timer Timer_MRW according to subclause 9.5.
If a new SDU discard with explicit signalling procedure is triggered when the
current SDU discard with explicit signalling procedure is still going on, no
new MRW SUFIs shall be sent before the current SDU discard with explicit
signalling procedure is terminated by one of the termination criteria
specified in subclause 11.6.4.
#### 11.6.2.1 Void
#### 11.6.2.2 STATUS PDU contents to set
The Sender shall:
\- if \"Send MRW\" is configured:
\- if no new SDU is present inside the AMD PDU which contains the \"Length
Indicator\" of the last discarded SDU or if the AMD PDU contains the special
value of the HE field to indicate the end of the last discarded SDU:
\- set the last SN_MRW~i~ field in the MRW SUFI to 1 + \"Sequence Number\" of
the AMD PDU which contains the \"Length Indicator\" of the last discarded SDU
or the special value of the HE field to indicate the end of the last discarded
SDU;
\- set the N~LENGTH~ field in the MRW SUFI to \"0000\".
\- otherwise:
\- set the last SN_MRW~i~ field in the MRW SUFI to the \"Sequence Number\" of
the AMD PDU which contains the \"Length Indicator\" of the last discarded SDU;
\- set the N~LENGTH~ field in the MRW SUFI so that the last data octet to be
discarded in the Receiver shall be the octet indicated by the N~LENGTH~:th
\"Length Indicator\" field of the AMD PDU which contains the \"Length
Indicator\" of the last discarded SDU;
\- set each of the other SN_MRW~i~ fields in the MRW SUFI to the \"Sequence
Number\" of the AMD PDU which contains the \"Length Indicator\" of the i:th
discarded SDU or the special value of the HE field to indicate the end of the
i:th discarded SDU.
\- otherwise (\"Send MRW\" is not configured):
\- if no new SDU is present inside the AMD PDU which contains the \"Length
Indicator\" of the last discarded SDU or if the AMD PDU contains the special
value of the HE field to indicate the end of the last discarded SDU:
\- set the last SN_MRW~i~ field in the MRW SUFI to 1 + \"Sequence Number\" of
the AMD PDU which contains the \"Length Indicator\" of the last SDU to be
discarded in the Receiver or the special value of the HE field to indicate the
end of the last discarded SDU;
\- set the N~LENGTH~ field in the MRW SUFI to \"0000\".
\- otherwise:
\- set the last SN_MRW~i~ field in the MRW SUFI to the \"Sequence Number\" of
the AMD PDU which contains the \"Length Indicator\" of the last SDU to be
discarded in the Receiver;
\- set the N~LENGTH~ field in the MRW SUFI so that the last data octet to be
discarded in the Receiver shall be the octet indicated by the N~LENGTH~:th
\"Length Indicator\" field of the AMD PDU which contains the \"Length
Indicator\" of the last SDU to be discarded in the Receiver;
\- optionally set each of the other SN_MRW~i~ fields in the MRW SUFI to the
\"Sequence Number\" of the AMD PDU which contains the \"Length Indicator\" or
the special value of the HE field to indicate the end of the i:th SDU to be
discarded in the Receiver;
\- if the MRW SUFI contains only one SN_MRW~i~ field and the value of
SN_MRW~i~ field ≥ VT(A)+Configured_Tx_Window_Size:
\- set the LENGTH field in the MRW SUFI to \"0000\".
\- otherwise:
\- set the LENGTH field in the MRW SUFI to the number of SN_MRW~i~ fields in
the same MRW SUFI. In this case, SN_MRW~1~ shall be in the interval VT(A) ≤
SN_MRW~1~ \ the SN_MRW~LENGTH~ field
in the transmitted MRW_SUFI, and the N field in the received MRW_ACK SUFI is
set equal to \"0000\";
\- a STATUS PDU/piggybacked STATUS PDU containing an MRW_ACK SUFI is received,
and the SN_ACK field in the received MRW_ACK SUFI = the SN_MRW~LENGTH~ field
in the transmitted MRW_SUFI, and the N field in the received MRW_ACK SUFI is
set equal to the N~LENGTH~ field in the transmitted MRW SUFI;
\- a STATUS PDU/piggybacked STATUS PDU containing an ACK SUFI is received, and
this STATUS PDU/piggybacked STATUS PDU indicates that all AMD PDUs up to and
including the AMD PDU with \"Sequence Number\" equal to (SN_MRW~LENGTH~ field
in the transmitted MRW SUFI) -- 1 has been received or discarded by the peer
entity.
Upon termination of the SDU discard with explicit signalling procedure, the
Sender shall:
\- stop the timer Timer_MRW;
\- update VT(A) and VT(MS) according to the received STATUS PDU/piggybacked
STATUS PDU;
The Sender shall not confirm to upper layers the SDUs that are requested to be
discarded.
11.6.4a Reached maximum number of attempts
If VT(MRW) = MaxMRW, the Sender shall:
\- terminate the SDU discard with explicit signalling procedure;
\- stop the timer Timer_MRW if it was started;
\- initiate the RLC RESET procedure (see subclause 11.4).
### 11.6.5 Expiration of timer Timer_MRW
If Timer_MRW expires before the discard procedure is terminated, the Sender
shall:
\- increment VT(MRW) by one;
\- if VT(MRW)\ \- else (if VT(MRW) = MaxMRW):
\- perform the actions specified in subclause 11.6.4a.
### 11.6.6 Abnormal cases
#### 11.6.6.1 Reception of obsolete/corrupted MRW SUFI by the Receiver
If the received MRW SUFI contains outdated information about the reception
window (reception window already moved further than MRW SUFI is indicating),
the Receiver shall:
\- discard the MRW SUFI;
\- set the SN_ACK field in the MRW_ACK SUFI to the current value of VR(R);
\- set the N field in the MRW_ACK SUFI to \"0000\";
\- include the MRW_ACK SUFI in the next STATUS PDU/piggybacked STATUS PDU to
be transmitted, according to subclause 11.5.2.
#### 11.6.6.2 Void
#### 11.6.6.3 Reception of obsolete/corrupted MRW_ACK SUFI by the Sender
The Sender shall discard the received MRW_ACK SUFI if one of the following
cases occurs:
\- no ongoing SDU discard with explicit signalling procedure; or
\- the SN_ACK field in the received MRW_ACK SUFI \ the SN_MRW~LENGTH~ field in
the transmitted MRW SUFI, and the N field in the received MRW_ACK SUFI is not
equal to \"0000\".
## 11.7 Void
## 11.8 Void
#