# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the _Service Area Broadcast Protocol (SABP)_
between the Cell Broadcast Centre (CBC) and the Radio Network Controller
(RNC). It fulfils the CBC - RNC communication requirements specified in TS
23.041 [5] and is defined over the Iu-BC -- reference point.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] Void
[2] Void
[3] Void
[4] 3GPP TR 25.931: \"UTRAN Functions: Examples on Signalling Procedures\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.041: \"Technical realization of Cell Broadcast Service (CBS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.414: \"UTRAN Iu Interface Data Transport and Transport
Signalling\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation X.680 (2002-07): \"Information Technology - Abstract
Syntax Notation One (ASN.1): Specification of basic notation\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation X.681 (2002-07): \"Information Technology - Abstract
Syntax Notation One (ASN.1): Information object specification\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation X.691 (2002-07): \"Information Technology - ASN.1
encoding rules - Specification of Packed Encoding Rules (PER)\".
[10] 3GPP TR 25.921 (Version 7.0.0): \"Guidelines and Principles for Protocol
Description and Error Handling\".
[11] 3GPP TS 25.324: \"Broadcast/Multicast Control BMC\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Elementary Procedure:** SABP consists of Elementary Procedures (EPs). An
Elementary Procedure is a unit of interaction between the CN (CBC) and the
RNC. These EPs are defined separately and are intended to be used to build up
complete sequences in a flexible manner. If the independence between some EPs
is restricted, it is described under the relevant EP description. Unless
otherwise stated by the restrictions, the EPs may be invoked independently of
each other as stand alone procedures, which can be active in parallel.
Examples on using several SABP EPs together with each other and EPs from other
interfaces can be found in reference TR 25.931 [4].
An EP consists of an initiating message and possibly a response message. Two
kinds of EPs are used:
\- **Class 1:** Elementary Procedures with response (success or failure).
\- **Class 2:** Elementary Procedures without response.
For Class 1 EPs, the types of responses can be as follows:
[Successful]{.underline}
\- A signalling message explicitly indicates that the elementary procedure
successfully completed with the receipt of the response.
[Unsuccessful]{.underline}
\- A signalling message explicitly indicates that the EP failed.
\- On time supervision expiry (i.e. absence of expected response).
Class 2 EPs are considered always successful.
**Message Reference:** This is defined as consisting of the following
parameters: Message Identifier, Serial Number, and SAI (Service Area
Identifier).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CBC Cell Broadcast Centre
CBS Cell Broadcast Service
CN Core Network
EP Elementary Procedure
FP Frame Protocol
PDU Protocol Data Unit
RNC Radio Network Controller
SA Service Area
SABP Service Area Broadcast Protocol
# 4 General
The protocol described in the present document is the protocol between CN
(CBC) and RNC needed for the CBC Application. The CBC Application is described
in TS 23.041 [5].
## 4.1 Procedure Specification Principles
The principle for specifying the procedure logic is to specify the functional
behaviour of the RNC exactly and completely. The CN functional behaviour is
left unspecified.
The following specification principles have been applied for the procedure
text in clause 8:
\- The procedure text discriminates between:
1) Functionality which \"shall\" be executed:
\- The procedure text indicates that the receiving node \"shall\" perform a
certain function Y under a certain condition. If the receiving node supports
procedure X but cannot perform functionality Y requested in the REQUEST
message of a Class 1 EP, the receiving node shall respond with the message
used to report unsuccessful outcome for this procedure, containing an
appropriate cause value.
2) Functionality which \"shall, if supported\" be executed:
\- The procedure text indicates that the receiving node \"shall, if
supported,\" perform a certain function Y under a certain condition. If the
receiving node supports procedure X, but does not support functionality Y, the
receiving node shall proceed with the execution of the EP, possibly informing
the requesting node about the not supported functionality.
\- Any required inclusion of an optional IE in a response message is
explicitly indicated in the procedure text. If the procedure text does not
explicitly indicate that an optional IE shall be included in a response
message, the optional IE shall not be included.
## 4.2 Forwards and Backwards Compatibility
The forwards and backwards compatibility of the protocol is assured by
mechanism where all current and future messages, and IEs or groups of related
IEs, include Id and criticality fields that are coded in a standard format
that will not be changed in the future. These parts can always be decoded
regardless of the standard version.
## 4.3 Specification Notations
For the purposes of the present document, the following notations apply:
Procedure When referring to an elementary procedure in the specification the
Procedure Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case
characters followed by the word \"procedure\", e.g. Write-Replace procedure.
Message When referring to a message in the specification the MESSAGE NAME is
written with all letters in upper case characters followed by the word
\"message\", e.g. WRITE-REPLACE message.
IE When referring to an information element (IE) in the specification the
_Information Element Name_ is written with the first letters in each word in
upper case characters and all letters in Italic font followed by the
abbreviation \"IE\", e.g. _Old Serial Number_ IE.
Value of an IE When referring to the value of an information element (IE) in
the specification the \"Value\" is written as it is specified in subclause 9.2
enclosed by quotation marks, e.g. \"Abstract Syntax Error (Reject)\" or
\"Background \".
# 5 Services provided by SABP
• During normal operation the CN (CBC) initiates all message transfer and
query operations. The RNC responds to the message transfer and query
operations initiated by the CBC.
• The RNC will open the connection only in case an error (Failure Indication
Procedure) or recovery (Restart Indication Procedure) is to be reported.
• The initiator of a connection is responsible for the termination of the
connection.
# 6 Services expected from the Transport layer
Following service is expected from the transport layer:
\- in sequence delivery of Signalling data TS 25.414 [6].
# 7 Functions of SABP
The SABP has the following functions:
• Message Handling. This function is responsible for the broadcast of new
messages, amend existing broadcasted messages and to stop the broadcasting of
specific messages.
• Load Handling. This function is responsible for determining the loading of
the broadcast channels at any particular point in time.
• Reset. This function permits the CBC to end broadcasting in one or more
Service Areas.
• Error Handling. This function allows the reporting of general error
situations, for which function specific error messages have not been defined.
These functions are implemented by one or several SABP elementary procedures
described in the following clauses.
# 8 SABP Procedures
## 8.1 Elementary Procedures
In the following tables, all EPs are divided into Class 1 and Class 2
Procedures.
Table 1: Class 1
* * *
Elementary Procedure Initiating Message Successful Outcome Unsuccessful
Outcome Response message Response message Write-Replace WRITE-REPLACE WRITE-
REPLACE COMPLETE WRITE-REPLACE FAILURE Kill KILL KILL COMPLETE KILL FAILURE
Load Status Enquiry LOAD QUERY LOAD QUERY COMPLETE LOAD QUERY FAILURE Message
Status Query MESSAGE QUERY MESSAGE QUERY COMPLETE MESSAGE QUERY FAILURE Reset
RESET RESET COMPLETE RESET FAILURE
* * *
Table 2: Class 2
* * *
Elementary Procedure Message Restart Indication RESTART Failure Indication
FAILURE Error Indication ERROR INDICATION
* * *
## 8.2 Write-Replace
### 8.2.1 General
The purpose of this Write-Replace procedure is to broadcast new information or
replace a message already broadcast to a chosen Service Area(s).
### 8.2.2 Successful Operation
{width="2.4069444444444446in" height="2.53125in"}
Figure 1: Write-Replace Procedure: Successful Operation
The CN shall initiate the procedure by sending a WRITE-REPLACE message to the
RNC.
The presence of a _New Serial Number_ IE will indicate that this is a new
broadcast. The presence of both the _Old Serial Number_ IE and a _New Serial
Number_ IE will indicate that this message is a replacement of an existing
broadcast.
The RNC will initiate broadcasting of a new message or replace a message
already broadcast as requested to the service areas as indicated in the
_Service Areas List_ IE.
The RNC shall uniquely identify the CBS message by the _Message Identifier_ IE
together with the twelve leftmost bits of the serial number in the _New Serial
Number_ IE and the _Service Area Identifier_ IE.
The RNC shall perform the broadcast according to the value of the _Category_
IE as follows:
\- The _Category_ IE, if given in the WRITE-REPLACE message, shall be treated
as follows:
1\. If the value of _Category_ IE is indicated as \"High Priority\", the RNC
shall perform the broadcast immediately;
2\. If the value of _Category_ IE is indicated as \"Background\", the RNC
shall perform the broadcast when no other broadcast message indicated as
\"High Priority\" or \"Normal\";
3\. If the value of _Category_ IE is indicated as \"Normal\", the RNC shall
perform the broadcast according to the _Repetition Period_ IE.
\- If the _Category_ IE is not given in the WRITE-REPLACE message, the RNC
shall perform the broadcast as the same category indicated as \"Normal\".
The RNC shall pass the _Data Coding Scheme_ IE transparently to the radio
interface protocol.
The RNC shall pass the _Broadcast Message Content_ IE Transparently to the
radio interface protocol.
The RNC shall broadcast the message frequently according to the value of the
_Number of Broadcasts Requested_ IE. If the value is set to \"0\", the RNC
shall broadcast the message until the CN requests otherwise. If the value is
different than "0", the RNC shall broadcast the message as many times as
indicated in the _Number of Broadcasts Requested_ IE, and after the completion
of the broadcast, the RNC shall release the involved messages and their status
stored for each service area.
Upon receipt of the WRITE-REPLACE message the RNC shall respond using the
WRITE-REPLACE COMPLETE message containing a _New Serial Number_ IE indicating
that resources are available as requested for the Service Area(s) specified
and a _Number of Broadcasts Completed List_ IE to indicate the number of times
the version of the old CBS message identified by the _Message Identifier_ IE
and the _Old Serial Number_ IE, has been successfully broadcast to the
particular Service Area(s). If the version corresponding to the _Old Serial
Number_ IE value is not recognized for a particular service area, the number
of broadcast completed shall be reported as '0' and the _Number of Broadcasts
Compl Info_ IE set to 'unknown'.
If the WRITE-REPLACE message sent from the CN:
\- contained a _New Serial Number_ IE but not an _Old Serial Number_ IE, the
_Number of Broadcasts_ IE within the _Number of Broadcasts Completed List_ IE
is set to \"0\" for each included Service Area in the corresponding WRITE-
REPLACE COMPLETE message..
\- contained both the _New Serial Number_ IE and the _Old Serial Number_ IE,
an entry is made in the _Number of Broadcasts_ IE in the _Number of Broadcasts
Completed List_ IE for each included Service Area in the corresponding WRITE-
REPLACE COMPLETE message. The RNC shall also release the involved old messages
and their status stored for each service area.
If _Paging ETWS Indicator_ IE is included in the WRITE-REPLACE message, the
RNC shall construct and send paging message towards the UE. The paging message
contains warning information based on _Warning Type_ IE. If the _Broadcast
Message Content Validity Indicator_ IE is included in the WRITE-REPLACE
message then the RNC shall ignore the contents of the _Broadcast Message
Content_ IE, _Repetition Period_ IE and _Number of Broadcasts Requested_ IE.
If the _Warning Security Information_ IE is included in the WRITE-REPLACE
message sent from the CN, the RNC shall send the _Warning Security
Information_ IE together with the paging message.
### 8.2.3 Unsuccessful Operation
{width="2.4069444444444446in" height="2.53125in"}
Figure 2: Write-Replace Procedure: Un-Successful Operation
If there is at least one Service Area specified in the WRITE-REPLACE message
for which the RNC cannot allocate all the resources requested or for which the
RNC cannot complete as requested, then the RNC shall return a WRITE-REPLACE
FAILURE message to the CN as an outcome of the procedure. A list of Service
Area(s) where the requested resources are unavailable or for which the RNC
cannot complete as requested and appropriate cause value shall be provided in
this WRITE-REPLACE FAILURE message in the _Failure List_ IE.
This WRITE-REPLACE FAILURE message may also include those Service Area(s)
where the requested resources were available and shall indicate in the _Number
of Broadcasts Completed_ List IE those Service Area(s) which completed the
request successfully.
If the WRITE-REPLACE message sent from the CN:
\- contained a _New Serial Number_ IE but not an _Old Serial Number_ IE, the
_Number of Broadcasts_ IE within the _Number of Broadcasts Completed List_ IE
is set to '0' for each included Service Area in the corresponding WRITE-
REPLACE FAILURE message.
\- contained a _New Serial Number_ IE but not an _Old Serial Number_ IE, and
the CBS message is already used by the RNC, it shall consider the Write
Replace procedure as failed for this Service Area and return a WRITE-REPLACE-
FAILURE message with the Service Area Identifier of this particular Service
Area included in the _Failure List_ IE together with the cause value "Message-
reference already-used".
\- contained both the _New Serial Number_ IE and the _Old Serial Number_ IE,
an entry is made in _Number of Broadcasts_ IE in the _Number of Broadcasts
Completed List_ IE for each included Service Area in the corresponding WRITE-
REPLACE FAILURE message.
\- contained both the _New Serial Number_ IE and the _Old Serial Number_ IE,
but if the old CBS message _is unknown to the RNC (i.e. it can not execute the
kill request) for a particular Service Area, it_ shall consider the Write
Replace procedure as failed for this Service Area. When the procedure is
completed, the RNC shall return a WRITE-REPLACE-FAILURE message which includes
the Service Area Identifier of this particular Service Area in the _Failure
List_ IE together with the cause value "Valid-CN-message-not-identified".
### 8.2.4 Abnormal Conditions
## 8.3 Kill
### 8.3.1 General
The purpose of the Kill procedure is to stop the broadcast of the indicated
message.
### 8.3.2 Successful Operation
{width="2.4069444444444446in" height="2.53125in"}
Figure 3: Kill Procedure: Successful Operation
The CN shall initiate the procedure by sending a KILL message to the RNC.
Upon receipt of the KILL message the RNC shall stop broadcasting the CBS
message, which is indicated in the _Message Identifier_ IE and the twelve
leftmost bits of the _Old Serial Number_ IE, in the indicated Service Area(s)
as indicated in the _Service Areas List_ IE.
The RNC shall respond using the KILL COMPLETE message, containing the _Old
Serial Number_ IE copied from the request and the _Number of Broadcast
Completed List_ IE when all Service Areas successfully stopped the broadcast.
It shall indicate in the _Number of Broadcast Completed List_ IE for each of
these Service Area(s), the number of times the version of the CBS message
identified by the _Message Identifier_ IE and the _Old Serial Number_ IE
received has been sent to this particular Service Area(s) for broadcast. The
RNC shall also release the involved messages and their status stored for each
service area. If the version corresponding to the _Old Serial Number_ IE value
is not recognized for a particular service area, the number of broadcast
completed shall be reported as '0' and the _Number of Broadcasts Compl Info_
IE set to 'unknown'.
### 8.3.3 Unsuccessful Operation
{width="2.4069444444444446in" height="2.53125in"}
Figure 4: Kill Procedure: Un-Successful Operation
If the RNC fails to stop broadcasting the CBS message as indicated in the KILL
message in at least one service area, the RNC shall return the KILL FAILURE
message to the CN. A _Failure List_ IE indicating the list of Service Area(s)
where the CBS message was not recognized or the broadcast could not be stopped
together with the appropriate cause value shall be provided in the KILL
FAILURE message. This response message may also -- if applicable - indicate in
the _Number of Broadcasts Completed List_ IE those Service Area(s) where the
KILL message successfully stopped the broadcast.
### 8.3.4 Abnormal Conditions
## 8.4 Load Status Enquiry
### 8.4.1 General
The purpose of this Load Status Enquiry procedure is to obtain the current
permissible bandwidth available for broadcast within particular Service
Area(s).
### 8.4.2 Successful Operation
{width="2.604861111111111in" height="2.53125in"}
Figure 5: Load Status Enquiry Procedure: Successful Operation
The CN shall initiate the procedure by sending a LOAD QUERY message to the
RNC. The message shall include a _Service Areas List_ IE. Upon reception of
the LOAD QUERY message the RNC shall respond with a LOAD QUERY COMPLETE
message containing the _Radio Resource Loading List_ IE indicating the
available bandwidth of the Service Area(s).
### 8.4.3 Unsuccessful Operation
{width="2.604861111111111in" height="2.53125in"}
Figure 6: Load Status Enquiry Procedure: Un-Successful Operation
If the RNC contains Service Area(s) for which the RNC was not able to respond
to, it shall respond with a LOAD QUERY FAILURE message which includes the
_Failure List_ IE.
The LOAD QUERY FAILURE response message may -- if applicable - also contain a
_Radio Resource Loading List_ IE for which the LOAD STATUS QUERY reporting was
successful.
### 8.4.4 Abnormal Conditions
## 8.5 Message Status Query
### 8.5.1 General
The Message Status Query procedure is used by the CN to obtain the message
status of a broadcast message.
### 8.5.2 Successful Operation
{width="2.9166666666666665in" height="2.53125in"}
Figure 7: Message Status Query Procedure: Successful Operation
The CN shall initiate the procedure by sending a MESSAGE STATUS QUERY message
to the RNC. The message shall contain the _Old Serial Number_ IE along with
the _Service Areas List_ IE containing the Service Area Identifiers the status
query is intended for. The status is requested for the version of the CBS
message identified by the _Message Identifier_ IE and the full value of the
_Old Version Number_ IE.
Upon receipt of the MESSAGE STATUS QUERY message the RNC shall respond using
the MESSAGE STATUS QUERY COMPLETE message.
Within this message the _Number of Broadcasts Completed List_ IE contains each
Service Area which successfully performed the requested operation and for each
of these Service Area(s), the number of times the version of this CBS message
has been sent to this particular Service Area(s) for broadcast. If the version
corresponding to the _Old Serial Number_ IE value is not recognized for a
particular service area, the number of broadcast completed shall be reported
as '0' and the _Number of Broadcasts Compl Info_ IE set to 'unknown'.
### 8.5.3 Unsuccessful Operation
{width="2.9166666666666665in" height="2.53125in"}
Figure 8: Message Status Query Procedure: Un-Successful Operation
If the requested operation fails (e.g. because the CBS message is unknown, or
when the RNC cannot send the status for a known CBS message) the RNC shall
send a MESSAGE STATUS QUERY FAILURE message to the CN containing a _Failure
List_ IE for Service Area(s) for which the requested operation failed.
The MESSAGE STATUS QUERY FAILURE message may -- if applicable - also include
the _Number of Broadcasts Completed List_ IE indicating those Service Area(s)
for which the MESSAGE STATUS QUERY message was successful.
### 8.5.4 Abnormal Conditions
## 8.6 Reset
### 8.6.1 General
The purpose of the Reset procedure is to end broadcasting in one or more
Service Areas in the RNC.
### 8.6.2 Successful Operation
{width="2.9166666666666665in" height="2.53125in"}
Figure 9: Reset Procedure: Successful Operation
The CN shall initiate the procedure by sending a RESET message to the RNC, in
order to end broadcasting in one or more Service Areas of the RNC.
Upon receipt of this message the RNC shall end broadcasting in the indicated
Service Area(s) and shall respond using a RESET COMPLETE message.
### 8.6.3 Unsuccessful Operation
{width="2.9166666666666665in" height="2.53125in"}
Figure 10: Reset Procedure: Un-Successful Operation
If upon receipt of this message the RNC can not end broadcasting in the
indicated Service Area(s), it shall respond using a RESET FAILURE message. The
RESET FAILURE message may contain the _Service Areas List_ IE and shall
contain the _Failure List_ IE indicating the relevant Service Area(s) in which
the RESET message was successful and unsuccessful respectively, along with the
appropriate cause value.
The sum of the Service Area(s) included in the _Service Areas List_ and
_Failure List_ IEs shall be the same as indicated in the _Service Areas List_
IE of the initiating RESET message.
### 8.6.4 Abnormal Conditions
## 8.7 Restart Indication
### 8.7.1 General
The purpose of the Restart Indication procedure is for the RNC to indicate to
the CN that a Service Area broadcasting related restart situation has occurred
in one or more of its Service Areas e.g. when a Service Area becomes
operational or when the RNC is initialised.
### 8.7.2 Successful Operation
{width="2.9194444444444443in" height="1.711111111111111in"}
Figure 11: Restart Indication Procedure: Successful Operation
The RNC shall initiate the procedure by sending a RESTART message to the CN.
This message shall contain a _Service Areas List_ IE for reference and may
also include the _Recovery Indication_ IE to indicate whether the previous
broadcast information needs to be loaded. In the absence of the _Recovery
Indication_ IE, the CN shall interpret it as \"lost\".
### 8.7.3 Abnormal Conditions
## 8.8 Failure Indication
### 8.8.1 General
The purpose of the Failure Indication procedure is to indicate to the CN from
the RNC that a Service Area broadcasting related problem is occurring in one
or more of its Service Areas.
### 8.8.2 Successful Operation
{width="2.9194444444444443in" height="1.8625in"}
Figure 12: Failure Indication Procedure: Successful Operation
The RNC shall initiate the procedure by sending a FAILURE message to the CN.
The FAILURE message shall contain the _Service Areas List_ IE to indicate
which Service Area(s) has a Service Area broadcasting related problem.
Upon receipt of this FAILURE message, the CN will not generate further WRITE
or REPLACE messages for these Service Area(s) until the CN is informed by a
RESTART message that the Service Area can resume normal Service Area
broadcasting operation.
### 8.8.3 Abnormal Conditions
## 8.9 Error Indication
### 8.9.1 General
The Error Indication procedure is initiated by the RNC to report detected
errors in one incoming message, provided they cannot be reported by an
appropriate failure message.
### 8.9.2 Successful Operation
{width="2.8493055555555555in" height="1.7916666666666667in"}
Figure 13: Error Indication Procedure: Successful Operation
When the conditions defined in chapter 10 are fulfilled, the Error Indication
procedure is initiated by an ERROR INDICATION message sent from the receiving
node.
The ERROR INDICATION message shall contain at least either the _Cause_ IE or
the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE.
Examples for possible cause values for protocol error indications are:
\- \"Transfer Syntax Error\".
\- \"Abstract Syntax Error (reject)\".
### 8.9.3 Abnormal Conditions
# 9 Elements for SABP Communication
## 9.1 Message Functional Definition and Content
### 9.1.1 General
Section 9.1 presents the contents of SABP messages in tabular format. The
corresponding ASN.1 definition is presented in section 9.3. In case there is
contradiction between the tabular format in section 9.1 and the ASN.1
definition, the ASN.1 shall take precedence, except for the definition of
conditions for the presence of conditional IEs, where the tabular format shall
take precedence.
NOTE: The messages have been defined in accordance to the guidelines specified
in TR 25.921 [10].
For each message there is, a table listing the signalling elements in their
order of appearance in the transmitted message.
### 9.1.2 Message Contents
#### 9.1.2.1 Presence
All information elements in the message descriptions below are marked
mandatory, optional or conditional according to table 3
Table 3: Meaning of abbreviations used in SABP messages
* * *
Abbreviation Meaning M IE\'s marked as Mandatory (M) will always be included
in the message. O IE\'s marked as Optional (O) may or may not be included in
the message. C IE\'s marked as Conditional (C) will be included in a message
only if the condition is satisfied. Otherwise the IE is not included.
* * *
#### 9.1.2.2 Criticality
Each Information Element or Group of Information Elements may have a
criticality information applied to it.\ Following cases are possible.
Table 4: Meaning of content within \"Criticality\" column
* * *
Abbreviation **Meaning** \-- No criticality information is applied explicitly.
YES Criticality information is applied. This is usable only for non-repeatable
IEs GLOBAL The IE and all its repetitions together have one common criticality
information. This is usable only for repeatable IEs. EACH Each repetition of
the IE has its own criticality information. It is not allowed to assign
different criticality values to the repetitions. This is usable only for
repeatable IEs.
* * *
#### 9.1.2.3 Range
The Range column indicates the allowed number of copies of repetitive IEs/IE
groups.
#### 9.1.2.4 Assigned Criticality
This column provides the actual criticality information as defined in
subclause 10.3.2, if applicable.
### 9.1.3 WRITE-REPLACE
This message is sent by the CN to the RNC.
Direction: CN  RNC
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1 yes reject Message
Identifier M 9.2.19 yes reject New Serial Number M 9.2.5 yes reject Old Serial
Number O 9.2.4 yes ignore Service Areas List M 9.2.6 yes reject Category O
9.2.7 yes ignore Repetition Period M 9.2.8 yes reject Number of Broadcasts
Requested M 9.2.9 yes reject Data Coding Scheme M 9.2.15 yes reject Broadcast
Message Content M 9.2.2 yes reject Warning Security Information O 9.2.23 See
TS 23.041 [5]. yes ignore Paging ETWS Indicator O 9.2.21 yes ignore Warning
Type O 9.2.22 yes ignore Broadcast Message Content Validity Indicator O 9.2.24
yes ignore
* * *
### 9.1.4 WRITE-REPLACE COMPLETE
This message will be sent by the RNC to the CN in a successful response to a
WRITE-REPLACE message.
Direction: RNC  CN
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1 yes reject Message
Identifier M 9.2.19 yes reject New Serial Number M 9.2.5 yes reject Number of
Broadcasts Completed List M 9.210 yes reject Criticality Diagnostics O 9.2.17
yes ignore
* * *
### 9.1.5 WRITE-REPLACE FAILURE
This message will be sent by the RNC to the CN as an unsuccessful response to
a WRITE-REPLACE message.
Direction: RNC  CN
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1 yes reject Message
Identifier M 9.2.19 yes reject New Serial Number M 9.2.5 yes reject Failure
List M 9.2.12 yes reject Number of Broadcasts Completed List O 9.2.10 yes
ignore Criticality Diagnostics O 9.2.17 yes ignore
* * *
### 9.1.6 KILL
This message is sent by the CN to the RNC to stop broadcasting of a specific
message.
Direction: CN  RNC
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1 yes reject Message
Identifier M 9.2.19 yes reject Old Serial Number M 9.2.4 yes reject Service
Areas List M 9.2.6 yes reject
* * *
### 9.1.7 KILL COMPLETE
This message is sent by the RNC to the CN as a successful response to a KILL
message.
Direction: RNC  CN
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1 yes reject Message
Identifier M 9.2.19 yes reject Old Serial Number M 9.2.4 yes reject Number of
Broadcasts Completed List M 9.2.10 yes reject Criticality Diagnostics O 9.2.17
yes ignore
* * *
### 9.1.8 KILL FAILURE
This message is sent by the RNC to the CN as unsuccessful response to a KILL
message.
Direction: RNC  CN
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1 yes reject Message
Identifier M 9.2.19 yes reject Old Serial Number M 9.2.4 yes reject Failure
List M 9.2.12 yes reject Number of Broadcasts Completed List O 9.2.10 yes
ignore Criticality Diagnostics O 9.2.17 yes ignore
* * *
### 9.1.9 LOAD QUERY
This message is sent by the CN to the RNC to gain an indication of broadcast
resources available.
Direction: CN  RNC
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1 yes reject Service Areas
List M 9.2.6 yes reject
* * *
### 9.1.10 LOAD QUERY COMPLETE
This message will be sent by the RNC as a successful response to the LOAD
QUERY message.
Direction: RNC  CN
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1 yes reject Radio
Resource Loading List M 9.2.13 yes reject Criticality Diagnostics O 9.2.17 yes
ignore
* * *
### 9.1.11 LOAD QUERY FAILURE
This message is sent by the RNC to the CN as an unsuccessful response to a
LOAD QUERY message.
Direction: RNC  CN
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1 yes reject Failure List
M 9.2.12 yes reject Radio Resource Loading List O 9.2.13 yes ignore
Criticality Diagnostics O 9.2.17 yes ignore
* * *
### 9.1.12 MESSAGE STATUS QUERY
This message is sent by the CN to the RNC to obtain the current status of a
Service Area broadcasting message.
Direction: CN  RNC
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1 yes reject Message
Identifier M 9.2.19 yes reject Old Serial Number M 9.2.4 yes reject Service
Areas List M 9.2.6 yes reject
* * *
### 9.1.13 MESSAGE STATUS QUERY COMPLETE
This message is sent by the RNC to the CN as a successful response to a
MESSAGE QUERY message.
Direction: RNC  CN
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1 yes reject Message
Identifier M 9.2.19 yes reject Old Serial Number M 9.2.4 yes reject Number of
Broadcasts Completed List M 9.2.10 yes reject Criticality Diagnostics O 9.2.17
yes ignore
* * *
### 9.1.14 MESSAGE STATUS QUERY FAILURE
This message is sent by the RNC to the CN in an unsuccessful response to a
MESSAGE QUERY message.
Direction: RNC  CN
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1 yes reject Message
Identifier M 9.2.19 yes reject Failure List M 9.2.12 yes reject Old Serial
Number M 9.2.4 yes reject Number of Broadcasts Completed List O 9.2.10 yes
ignore Criticality Diagnostics O 9.2.17 yes ignore
* * *
### 9.1.15 RESET
The message is sent by the CN to the RNC to request that the RNC end
broadcasting in one or more Service Areas.
Direction: CN  RNC
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1 yes reject Service Areas
List M 9.2.6 yes reject
* * *
### 9.1.16 RESET COMPLETE
This message is sent from the RNC to the CN as a successful response to a
RESET message where indicated Service-Area(s) are now not broadcasting any
messages.
Direction: RNC  CN
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1 yes reject Service Areas
List M 9.2.6 yes reject Criticality Diagnostics O 9.2.17 yes ignore
* * *
### 9.1.17 RESET FAILURE
This message is sent from the RNC to the CN as an unsuccessful response to a
RESET message to indicate that a Service Area broadcasting related problem
exists in one or more of its Service Areas.
Direction: RNC  CN
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1 yes reject Failure List
M 9.2.12 yes reject Service Areas List O 9.2.6 yes ignore Criticality
Diagnostics O 9.2.17 yes ignore
* * *
### 9.1.18 RESTART
This message is sent from the RNC to the CN to indicate a Service Area
broadcasting related restart situation in one or more of its Service-Areas.
Direction: RNC  CN
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1 yes ignore Service Areas
List M 9.2.6 yes ignore Recovery Indication O 9.2.16 yes ignore
* * *
### 9.1.19 FAILURE
This message is sent from the RNC to the CN to indicate that a Service Area
broadcasting related problem exists in one or more of its Service-Areas.
Direction: RNC  CN
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1 yes ignore Service Areas
List M 9.2.6 yes ignore
* * *
### 9.1.20 ERROR INDICATION
This message is sent by the RNC to CN and is used to indicate that some errors
have been detected in the node.
Direction: RNC  CN
* * *
PARAMETER PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 9.2.1 yes ignore Message
Identifier O 9.2.19 yes ignore Serial Number O 9.2.3 yes ignore Cause O 9.2.14
yes ignore Criticality Diagnostics O 9.2.17 yes ignore
* * *
## 9.2 Information Element Definitions
### 9.2.0 General
Section 9.2 presents the SABP IE definitions in tabular format. The
corresponding ASN.1 definition is presented in section 9.3. In case there is
contradiction between the tabular format in section 9.2 and the ASN.1
definition, the ASN.1 shall take precedence, except for the definition of
conditions for the presence of conditional elements, where the tabular format
shall take precedence.
When specifying information elements which are to be represented by
bitstrings, if not otherwise specifically stated in the semantics description
of the concerned IE or elsewhere, the following principle applies with regards
to the ordering of bits:
\- The first bit (leftmost bit) contains the most significant bit (MSB);
\- The last bit (rightmost bit) contains the least significant bit (LSB);
\- When importing bitstrings from other specifications, the first bit of the
bitstring contains the first bit of the concerned information;
### 9.2.1 MessageType
_Message Type_ IE uniquely identifies the message being sent. It is mandatory
for all messages.
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/GROUP NAME | PRESENCE | RANGE | IE Type and | Semantics | | | | | Reference | Description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | **Message | | | | | | Type** | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >Procedure | M | | ENUMERATED | | | > Code | | | ( | | | | | | Write-Replace, | | | | | | | | | | | | Kill, | | | | | | | | | | | | Load Status | | | | | | Enquiry, | | | | | | | | | | | | Message Status | | | | | | Query, | | | | | | | | | | | | Reset, | | | | | | | | | | | | Restart | | | | | | Indication, | | | | | | | | | | | | Failure | | | | | | Indication, | | | | | | | | | | | | Error | | | | | | Indication | | | | | | | | | | | | ,...) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >Type of | M | | ENUMERATED | | | > Message | | | (Initi | | | | | | ating Message, | | | | | | Succe | | | | | | ssful Outcome, | | | | | | Unsucce | | | | | | ssful Outcome, | | | | | | Outcome) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
### 9.2.2 Broadcast Message Content
_Broadcast Message Content_ IE is sent from the CN to the RNC containing user
information i.e. the message, and will be broadcast over the radio interface.
* * *
IE/GROUP NAME PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Broadcast Message Content M BIT STRING (1..9968) The size of the received
bitstring shall be multiple of 8.
* * *
### 9.2.3 Serial Number
_Serial Number_ IE is a 16-bit integer which identifies a particular message
from the source and type indicated by the Message Identifier and is altered
every time the message with a given Message Identifier is changed.
* * *
IE/GROUP NAME PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Serial Number O BIT STRING(16)
* * *
### 9.2.4 Old Serial Number
_Old Serial Number_ IE enables identification of an existing message to be
identified. The format of this IE is defined in subclause 9.2.3.
* * *
IE/GROUP NAME PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description Old
Serial Number M 9.2.3
* * *
### 9.2.5 New Serial Number
_New Serial Number_ IE enables identification of a new message for broadcast
to be identified, and is altered every time the message is changes. The format
of this IE is defined in subclause 9.2.3.
* * *
IE/GROUP NAME PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description New
Serial Number O 9.2.3
* * *
### 9.2.6 Service Areas List
The _Service Areas List_ IE identifies a sequence of one or more Service Areas
to which the message(s) apply. The _Service Areas List_ IE must include at
least one Service Area.
* * *
IE/GROUP NAME PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
**Service Areas List** 1 to \  
>Service Area Identifier M 9.2.11
* * *
* * *
Range bound Explanation MaxnoofSAI Maximum no. of SAI in Service Areas List.
Value is 65535
* * *
### 9.2.7 Category
_Category_ IE is sent from the CN to the RNC, and is used to indicate the
priority of the message.
+---------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/GROUP NAME | PRESENCE | RANGE | IE Type and | Semantics | | | | | Reference | Description | +---------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | Category | O | | Enumerated | This IE | | | | | (High | contains the | | | | | Priority, | broadcast | | | | | Background, | priority of | | | | | Normal, | the message. | | | | | Default) | | | | | | | The value | | | | | | "Default" | | | | | | shall not be | | | | | | used | +---------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
### 9.2.8 Repetition Period
_Repetition Period_ IE is sent from the CN to the RNC and indicates the
periodicity of message broadcasts.
* * *
IE/GROUP NAME PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Repetition Period M INTEGER (1..4096) Range is 1 to 4096 where each unit will
represent a repetition of one second to a maximum of once per \~1 hour
* * *
### 9.2.9 Number of Broadcasts Requested
_Number of Broadcasts Requested_ IE is sent from the CN to the RNC and
indicates the number of times a message is to be broadcast.
+--------------+----------+------------+--------------+--------------+ | IE/GROUP | PRESENCE | RANGE | IE Type and | Semantics | | NAME | | | Reference | Description | +--------------+----------+------------+--------------+--------------+ | Number of | M | 0 to 65535 | INTEGER | This | | Broadcasts | | | (0..65535) | specifies | | Requested | | | | the number | | | | | | of times the | | | | | | message is | | | | | | to be | | | | | | broadcast. | | | | | | | | | | | | \"0\" | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the message | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | broadcasted | | | | | | until CN | | | | | | request | | | | | | otherwise. | +--------------+----------+------------+--------------+--------------+
### 9.2.10 Number of Broadcasts Completed List
_Number of Broadcasts Completed List_ IE is sent from the RNC to the CN, and
indicates the number of times that a CN message (all pages) has been sent to
each Service Area specified in the _Service Areas List_ IE of the request
message for broadcast over the radio interface.
+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IE/GROUP | PRESENCE | RANGE | IE Type and | Semantics | | NAME | | | Reference | Description | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Number | | 1 to | | | | of | | \ | | | | Completed | | | | | | List** | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >Service | M | | OCTET | | | > Area | | | STRING (7) | | | > | | | | | | Identifier | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >Number | M | | INTEGER | | | > of | | | (0.. 65535 | | | > | | | ) | | | Broadcasts | | | | | | > Completed | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >Number | O | | ENUMERATED | Overflow | | > of | | | (overflow, | indicates | | > | | | unknown) | that the | | Broadcasts | | | | number of | | > Compl | | | | times that | | > Info | | | | CN message | | | | | | sent to the | | | | | | radio | | | | | | interface | | | | | | has been | | | | | | overflow. | | | | | | | | | | | | Unknown | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | that no | | | | | | information | | | | | | regarding | | | | | | the number | | | | | | of times | | | | | | that CN | | | | | | message | | | | | | sent to the | | | | | | radio | | | | | | interface. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation MaxnoofSAI Maximum no. of SAI in Service Areas List
Value is 65535
* * *
### 9.2.11 Service Area Identifier
_Service Area Identifier_ IE in BC domain is used to identify an area
consisting of one cell TS 23.003 [12]. Such an area is called a Service Area.
For this protocol, only a Service Area that is defined to be applicable to the
BC domain shall be used.
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | | | | Reference | description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | **SAI** | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >PLMN | M | | OCTET STRING | - digits 0 to | | > identity | | | (SIZE (3)) | 9, two digits | | | | | | per octet, | | | | | | | | | | | | - each digit | | | | | | encoded 0000 | | | | | | to 1001, | | | | | | | | | | | | - 1111 used | | | | | | as filler | | | | | | | | | | | | - bit 4 to 1 | | | | | | of octet n | | | | | | encoding digit | | | | | | 2n-1 | | | | | | | | | | | | - bit 8 to 5 | | | | | | of octet n | | | | | | encoding digit | | | | | | 2n | | | | | | | | | | | | -The PLMN | | | | | | identity | | | | | | consists of 3 | | | | | | digits from | | | | | | MCC followed | | | | | | by either\ | | | | | | -a filler plus | | | | | | 2 digits from | | | | | | MNC (in case | | | | | | of 2 digit | | | | | | MNC) or\ | | | | | | -3 digits from | | | | | | MNC (in case | | | | | | of a 3 digit | | | | | | MNC). | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >LAC | M | | OCTET STRING | 0000 and FFFE | | | | | (2) | not allowed. | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >SAC | M | | OCTET STRING | | | | | | (2) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
### 9.2.12 Failure List
_Failure List_ IE identifies the list of Service-Area(s) for which the RNC
could not complete as requested.
+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IE/GROUP | PRESENCE | RANGE | IE Type and | Semantics | | NAME | | | Reference | Description | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Failure | | 1 to | | | | List** | | \ | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >Service | M | | 9.2.11 | | | > Area | | | | | | > | | | | | | Identifier | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >Cause | M | | 9.2.14 | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation MaxnoofSAI Maximum no. of SAI in Service-Area-List.
Value is 65535
* * *
### 9.2.13 Radio Resource Loading List
_Radio Resource Loading List_ IE presents the available bandwidth available
for Broadcast purposes of a specific Service Area.
+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IE/GROUP | PRESENCE | RANGE | IE Type and | Semantics | | NAME | | | Reference | Description | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Radio | | 1 to | | | | Resource | | \ | | | | List** | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >Service | M | | 9.2.11 | | | > Area | | | | | | > | | | | | | Identifier | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > | M | | 9.2.18 | | | >Available | | | | | | > Bandwidth | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation MaxnoofSAI Maximum no. of SAI in Service Area List.
Value is 65535
* * *
### 9.2.14 Cause
_Cause_ IE indicates the reason for a particular error event for the SABP
protocol.
+---------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/GROUP NAME | PRESENCE | RANGE | IE Type and | Semantics | | | | | Reference | Description | +---------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >Cause | M | | INTEGER ( | Range is 0-255 | | | | | | | | | | | Parameter-not- | Sent when the | | | | | recognised(0), | recipient (CN | | | | | | or RNC) was | | | | | P | unable to act | | | | | arameter-value | upon the | | | | | invalid(1), | message | | | | | | received due | | | | | Valid-C | to an | | | | | N-message-not- | unrecognised | | | | | identified(2), | parameter. A | | | | | | message should | | | | | Service | not be | | | | | -Area-identity | rejected only | | | | | -not-valid(3), | because a | | | | | | parameter is | | | | | Unrecogni | not recognised | | | | | sed-message(4) | as this would | | | | | | prevent | | | | | M | extensions to | | | | | issing-mandato | the service | | | | | ry-element(5), | | | | | | | Sent when a | | | | | RNC-capacit | failure | | | | | y-exceeded(6), | occurred due | | | | | | to the value | | | | | RNC-memor | of a parameter | | | | | y-exceeded(7), | being invalid, | | | | | | e.g. out of | | | | | Service-Area | range, or in | | | | | -broadcast-not | Write-Replace, | | | | | -supported(8), | the parameter | | | | | | \"no of | | | | | Service-Area-b | pages\" does | | | | | roadcast-not-o | not equal the | | | | | perational(9), | number of | | | | | | pages received | | | | | Mes | | | | | | sage-reference | Sent when the | | | | | alr | RNC does not | | | | | eady-used(10), | recognise the | | | | | | CN message | | | | | Unspecif | reference | | | | | ied-error(11), | | | | | | | Sent when the | | | | | (Transfer | RNC does not | | | | | Syntax | recognise a | | | | | Error(12), | Service-Area | | | | | | Identity | | | | | Semantic Error | | | | | | (12), | Sent when the | | | | | | RNC did not | | | | | Message not | recognise the | | | | | compatible | message at all | | | | | with receiver | | | | | | state (14), | Sent when a | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | Abstract | element is | | | | | Syntax Error | missing from | | | | | (Reject) (15), | the message | | | | | | | | | | | Abstract | Sent when a | | | | | Syntax Error | write-replace | | | | | (Ignore and | fails because | | | | | Notify) (16), | the RNC cannot | | | | | | meet the | | | | | Abstract | requested | | | | | Syntax Error | repetition | | | | | (Falsely | period because | | | | | Constructed | of the cell | | | | | Message) (17)) | loading | | | | | | | | | | | | Sent when the | | | | | | RNC is unable | | | | | | to store a CBS | | | | | | message as the | | | | | | RNC memory has | | | | | | been exceeded. | | | | | | | | | | | | Sent when the | | | | | | SABCH/CN | | | | | | related Radio | | | | | | Resource is | | | | | | not configured | | | | | | for a | | | | | | Service-Area | | | | | | | | | | | | Sent when the | | | | | | SABCH/CN | | | | | | related radio | | | | | | resource is | | | | | | not available | | | | | | because of | | | | | | error | | | | | | conditions or | | | | | | due to | | | | | | maintenance | | | | | | activities | | | | | | | | | | | | Sent when the | | | | | | recipient was | | | | | | unable to act | | | | | | upon the | | | | | | Write-Replace | | | | | | message | | | | | | received due | | | | | | to a previous | | | | | | Write-Replace | | | | | | received with | | | | | | the same | | | | | | message | | | | | | reference. | | | | | | | | | | | | Sent when none | | | | | | of the above | | | | | | cause values | | | | | | apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | Sent to | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | transfer | | | | | | syntax error | | | | | | in any message | | | | | | | | | | | | Sent to | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | semantic error | | | | | | any message | | | | | | | | | | | | Sent to | | | | | | indicate that | | | | | | received | | | | | | message is not | | | | | | compatible | | | | | | with the | | | | | | receiver state | | | | | | | | | | | | Sent to | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | rejection due | | | | | | to Abstract | | | | | | Syntax Error | | | | | | | | | | | | Sent to | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | Abstract | | | | | | Syntax Error | | | | | | in some IE | | | | | | that has been | | | | | | ignored | | | | | | | | | | | | Sent to | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | Abstract | | | | | | Syntax Error | | | | | | due to false | | | | | | message | | | | | | construction | +---------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
### 9.2.15 Data Coding Scheme
_Data Coding Scheme_ IE is sent from the RNC to the CN and identifies the
alphabet or coding employed for the message characters and message handling at
the UE (it is passed transparently from the CN to the UE).
* * *
IE/GROUP NAME PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description Data
Coding Scheme M BIT STRING(8)
* * *
### 9.2.16 Recovery Indication
_Recovery_ I _ndication_ IE is used to indicate whether the CN related data
was lost or is still available.
* * *
IE/GROUP NAME PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Recovery Indication O ENUMERATED (Lost, Available)
* * *
### 9.2.17 Criticality Diagnostics
For further details on how to use the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE, see annex
A.
The _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE is sent by the RNC or the CN when parts of a
received message have not been comprehended or were missing, or if the message
contained logical errors. When applicable, it contains information about which
IEs that were not comprehended or were missing.
+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IE/Group | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | Name | | | reference | description | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Criticality | | | | | | Diagnostics | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > | O | | INTEGER | Procedure | | >Procedure | | | (0..255) | Code is to | | > Code | | | | be used if | | | | | | Criticality | | | | | | Diagnostics | | | | | | is part of | | | | | | Error | | | | | | Indication | | | | | | procedure, | | | | | | and not | | | | | | within the | | | | | | response | | | | | | message of | | | | | | the same | | | | | | procedure | | | | | | that caused | | | | | | the error | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > \ | O | | ENUMERATED | The | | >Triggering | | | (initiating | Triggering | | > Message | | | message, | Message is | | | | | successful | used only | | | | | outcome, | if the | | | | | u | Criticality | | | | | nsuccessful | Diagnostics | | | | | outcome, | is part of | | | | | outcome) | Error | | | | | | Indication | | | | | | procedure. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > | O | | ENUMERA | This | | >Procedure | | | TED(reject, | Procedure | | > | | | ignore, | Criticality | | Criticality | | | notify) | is used for | | | | | | reporting | | | | | | the | | | | | | Criticality | | | | | | of the | | | | | | Triggering | | | | | | message | | | | | | ( | | | | | | Procedure). | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ** | | 0 to | | | | Information | | \ | | | | Criticality | | | | | | Di | | | | | | agnostics** | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >IE | M | | ENUMERA | The IE | | > | | | TED(reject, | Criticality | | Criticality | | | ignore, | is used for | | | | | notify) | reporting | | | | | | the | | | | | | criticality | | | | | | of the | | | | | | triggering | | | | | | IE. The | | | | | | value | | | | | | \'ignore\' | | | | | | shall not | | | | | | be used. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >IE ID | M | | INTEGER | The IE Id | | | | | (0..65535) | of the not | | | | | | understood | | | | | | or missing | | | | | | IE | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > \ | O | | INTEGER | The | | >Repetition | | | (0..255) | _Repetition | | > Number | | | | Number_ IE | | | | | | gives | | | | | | | | | | | | ● in case | | | | | | of a not | | | | | | understood | | | | | | IE:\ | | | | | | The number | | | | | | of | | | | | | occurrences | | | | | | of the | | | | | | reported IE | | | | | | up to and | | | | | | including | | | | | | the not | | | | | | understood | | | | | | occurrence | | | | | | | | | | | | ● in case | | | | | | of a | | | | | | missing | | | | | | IE:\ | | | | | | The number | | | | | | of | | | | | | occurrences | | | | | | up to but | | | | | | not | | | | | | including | | | | | | the missing | | | | | | occurrence. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note: All | | | | | | the counted | | | | | | occurrences | | | | | | of the | | | | | | reported IE | | | | | | must have | | | | | | the same | | | | | | topdown | | | | | | hierachical | | | | | | message | | | | | | structure | | | | | | of IEs with | | | | | | assigned | | | | | | criticality | | | | | | above them. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >Message | O | | 9.2.20 | The | | > Structure | | | | _Message | | | | | | Structure_ | | | | | | IE | | | | | | describes | | | | | | the | | | | | | structure | | | | | | where the | | | | | | not | | | | | | understood | | | | | | or missing | | | | | | IE was | | | | | | detected. | | | | | | | | | | | | This IE is | | | | | | included if | | | | | | the not | | | | | | understood | | | | | | IE is not | | | | | | the top | | | | | | level of | | | | | | the | | | | | | message. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >Type of | M | | ENU | | | > Error | | | MERATED(not | | | | | | understood, | | | | | | missing, | | | | | | ...) | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation Maxnooferrors Maximum no. of IE errors allowed to be
reported with a single message. The value for maxnooferrors is 256.
* * *
### 9.2.18 Available Bandwidth
_Available Bandwidth_ IE is used to indicate the Bandwidth available for the
broadcast of messages.
* * *
IE/GROUP NAME PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Available Bandwidth O INTEGER (0..20480) The unit is: bit/second
* * *
### 9.2.19 Message Identifier
_Message Identifier_ IE is set by the CN, transfer to the UE by the RNC.
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/GROUP NAME | PRESENCE | RANGE | IE Type and | Semantics | | | | | Reference | Description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | Message | M | | BIT STRING(16) | This IE is set | | Identifier | | | | by the CN, | | | | | | transfer to | | | | | | the UE by the | | | | | | RNC, the RNC | | | | | | needs not to | | | | | | understand | | | | | | what is the | | | | | | meaning of the | | | | | | value but | | | | | | shall treat it | | | | | | as a | | | | | | identifier of | | | | | | a message. | | | | | | | | | | | | The Message | | | | | | Identifier is | | | | | | defined in TS | | | | | | 25.324 [11]. | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
### 9.2.20 Message Structure
The _Message Structure_ IE gives information for each level with assigned
criticality in an hierachical message structure from top level down to the
lowest level above the reported level for the occured error (reported in the
_Information Element Criticality Diagnostics_ IE).
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > **I |** Pre | ** | **IE |** Se | * | **A | | E/Group | sence** | Range**| type | mantics | *Critic | ssigned | | > | | | and | descri | ality** | Critic | | Name**| | | refe | ption** | | ality**| | | | | rence** | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > ** | | 1 to | | The | GLOBAL | ignore | | Message | | \ stru | | axnoofl | | rep | | | | cture __| | evels > | | etition | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | * | | | | | | | | Message | | | | | | | | Str | | | | | | | | ucture_ | | | | | | | | IE | | | | | | | | corr | | | | | | | | esponds | | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | | top | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | essage. | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | last | | | | | | | | rep | | | | | | | | etition | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | * | | | | | | | | Message | | | | | | | | Str | | | | | | | | ucture_ | | | | | | | | IE | | | | | | | | corr | | | | | | | | esponds | | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | above | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | eported | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | | occured | | | | | | | | error | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | essage. | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >IE | M | | INTEGER | The IE | - | | | > ID | | | (0. | ID of | | | | | | | .65535) | this | | | | | | | | level's | | | | | | | | IE | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | taining | | | | | | | | the not | | | | | | | | und | | | | | | | | erstood | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | missing | | | | | | | | IE. | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >Rep | O | | INTEGER | The | - | | | etition | | | ( | _Rep | | | | > | | | 1..256) | etition | | | | Number | | | | Number_ | | | | | | | | IE | | | | | | | | gives, | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | appl | | | | | | | | icable, | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | occu | | | | | | | | rrences | | | | | | | | of this | | | | | | | | level's | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | eported | | | | | | | | IE up | | | | | | | | to and | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | cluding | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | occ | | | | | | | | urrence | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | taining | | | | | | | | the not | | | | | | | | und | | | | | | | | erstood | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | missing | | | | | | | | IE. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note: | | | | | | | | All the | | | | | | | | counted | | | | | | | | occu | | | | | | | | rrences | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | eported | | | | | | | | IE must | | | | | | | | have | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | same | | | | | | | | topdown | | | | | | | | hier | | | | | | | | achical | | | | | | | | message | | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | | ructure | | | | | | | | of IEs | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | ssigned | | | | | | | | crit | | | | | | | | icality | | | | | | | | above | | | | | | | | them. | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnooflevels Maximum no. of message levels to report.
The value for maxnooflevels is 256.
* * *
### 9.2.21 Paging ETWS Indicator
_Paging ETWS Indicator_ IE is used to indicate to the RNC that the received
SABP message contains ETWS contents that need to be sent via paging message
towards the UE.
* * *
IE/GROUP NAME PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Paging ETWS Indicator M ENUMERATED (Paging, ...)
* * *
### 9.2.22 Warning Type
Warning Type IE indicates the types of the disaster. This IE can be used by
the UE to differentiate tye type of alert according to the type of disaster.
* * *
IE/GROUP NAME PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Warning Type M OCTET STRING (2)
* * *
### 9.2.23 Warning Security Information
_Warning Security Information_ IE is set by the CN, transferred to the UE by
the RNC.
* * *
IE/GROUP NAME PRESENCE RANGE IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Warning Security Information M OCTET STRING(50)
* * *
### 9.2.24 Broadcast Message Content Validity Indicator
The _Broadcast Message Content Validity Indicator_ IE indicates that the
_Broadcast Message Content_ IE does not contain any valid information.
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/GROUP NAME | PRESENCE | RANGE | IE Type and | Semantics | | | | | Reference | Description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | Broadcast | M | | ENUMERATED | | | Message | | | | | | Content | | | (Broadcast | | | Validity | | | Message | | | Indicator | | | Content not | | | | | | valid) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
## 9.3 Message and Information Element Abstract Syntax (with ASN.1)
### 9.3.0 General
SABP ASN.1 definition conforms with ITU-T Rec. X.680 [7] and ITU-T Rec. X.681
[8].
The ASN.1 definition specifies the structure and content of SABP messages.
SABP messages can contain any IEs specified in the object set definitions for
that message without the order or number of occurrence being restricted by
ASN.1. However, for this version of the standard, a sending entity shall
construct a SABP message according to the PDU definitions module and with the
following additional rules (Note that in the following IE means an IE in the
object set with an explicit id. If one IE needed to appear more than once in
one object set, then the different occurrences have different IE ids):
\- IEs shall be ordered (in an IE container) in the order they appear in
object set definitions.
\- Object set definitions specify how many times IEs may appear. An IE shall
appear exactly once if the presence field in an object has value
\"mandatory\". An IE may appear at most once if the presence field in an
object has value \"optional\" or \"conditional\". If in a tabular format there
is multiplicity specified for an IE (i.e. an IE list) then in the
corresponding ASN.1 definition the list definition is separated into two
parts. The first part defines an IE container list where the list elements
reside. The second part defines list elements. The IE container list appears
as an IE of its own. For this version of the standard an IE container list may
contain only one kind of list elements.
If a SABP message that is not constructed as defined above is received, this
shall be considered as Abstract Syntax Error, and the message shall be handled
as defined for Abstract Syntax error in subclause 10.3.6.
### 9.3.1 Usage of protocol extension mechanism for non-standard use
The protocol extension mechanism for non-standard use may be used:
\- for special operator- (and/or vendor) specific features considered not to
be part of the basic functionality, i.e. the functionality required for a
complete and high-quality specification in order to guarantee multivendor
interoperability.
\- by vendors for research purposes, e.g. to implement and evaluate new
algorithms/features before such features are proposed for standardisation.
The extension mechanism shall not be used for basic functionality. Such
functionality shall be standardised.
### 9.3.2 Elementary Procedure Definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Elementary Procedure definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SABP-PDU-Descriptions {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
umts-Access (20) modules (3) sabp (3) version1 (1) sabp-PDU-Descriptions (0)}
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IE parameter types from other modules.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
IMPORTS
Criticality,
ProcedureCode
FROM SABP-CommonDataTypes
Error-Indication,
Failure,
Kill,
Kill-Complete,
Kill-Failure,
Load-Query,
Load-Query-Complete,
Load-Query-Failure,
Reset,
Reset-Complete,
Reset-Failure,
Restart,
Message-Status-Query,
Message-Status-Query-Complete,
Message-Status-Query-Failure,
Write-Replace,
Write-Replace-Complete,
Write-Replace-Failure
FROM SABP-PDU-Contents
id-Error-Indication,
id-Failure-Indication,
id-Kill,
id-Reset,
id-Restart-Indication,
id-Load-Status-Enquiry,
id-Message-Status-Query,
id-Write-Replace
FROM SABP-Constants;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface Elementary Procedure Class
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= CLASS {
&InitiatingMessage ,
&SuccessfulOutcome OPTIONAL,
&UnsuccessfulOutcome OPTIONAL,
&procedureCode ProcedureCode UNIQUE,
&criticality Criticality DEFAULT ignore
}
WITH SYNTAX {
INITIATING MESSAGE &InitiatingMessage
[SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME
&SuccessfulOutcome]
[UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME &UnsuccessfulOutcome]
PROCEDURE CODE &procedureCode
[CRITICALITY &criticality]
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface PDU Definition
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SABP-PDU ::= CHOICE {
initiatingMessage InitiatingMessage,
successfulOutcome SuccessfulOutcome,
unsuccessfulOutcome UnsuccessfulOutcome,
...
}
InitiatingMessage ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&procedureCode ({SABP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}),
criticality SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&criticality ({SABP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode}),
value SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&InitiatingMessage ({SABP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode})
}
SuccessfulOutcome ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&procedureCode ({SABP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}),
criticality SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&criticality ({SABP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode}),
value SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&SuccessfulOutcome ({SABP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode})
}
UnsuccessfulOutcome ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&procedureCode ({SABP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}),
criticality SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&criticality ({SABP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode}),
value SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&UnsuccessfulOutcome ({SABP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode})
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface Elementary Procedure List
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-1 \|
SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-2 ,
...
}
SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-1 SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
write-Replace \|
kill \|
load-Status-Enquiry \|
message-Status-Query \|
reset ,
...
}
SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-2 SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
restart-Indication \|
failure-Indication \|
error-Indication ,
...
}
write-Replace SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE Write-Replace
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME Write-Replace-Complete
UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME Write-Replace-Failure
PROCEDURE CODE id-Write-Replace
CRITICALITY reject
}
kill SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE Kill
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME Kill-Complete
UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME Kill-Failure
PROCEDURE CODE id-Kill
CRITICALITY reject
}
load-Status-Enquiry SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE Load-Query
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME Load-Query-Complete
UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME Load-Query-Failure
PROCEDURE CODE id-Load-Status-Enquiry
CRITICALITY reject
}
message-Status-Query SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE Message-Status-Query
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME Message-Status-Query-Complete
UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME Message-Status-Query-Failure
PROCEDURE CODE id-Message-Status-Query
CRITICALITY reject
}
reset SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE Reset
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME Reset-Complete
UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME Reset-Failure
PROCEDURE CODE id-Reset
CRITICALITY reject
}
restart-Indication SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE Restart
PROCEDURE CODE id-Restart-Indication
CRITICALITY ignore
}
failure-Indication SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE Failure
PROCEDURE CODE id-Failure-Indication
CRITICALITY ignore
}
error-Indication SABP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE Error-Indication
PROCEDURE CODE id-Error-Indication
CRITICALITY ignore
}
END
### 9.3.3 PDU Definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- PDU definitions for SABP.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SABP-PDU-Contents {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
umts-Access (20) modules (3) sabp (3) version1 (1) sabp-PDU-Contents (1) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IE parameter types from other modules.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
IMPORTS
Broadcast-Message-Content,
Category,
Cause,
Criticality-Diagnostics,
Data-Coding-Scheme,
Failure-List,
Message-Identifier,
New-Serial-Number,
Number-of-Broadcasts-Completed-List,
Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested,
Old-Serial-Number,
Paging-ETWS-Indicator,
Radio-Resource-Loading-List,
Recovery-Indication,
Repetition-Period,
Serial-Number,
Service-Areas-List,
WarningSecurityInfo,
Warning-Type,
Broadcast-Message-Content-Validity-Indicator
FROM SABP-IEs
ProtocolExtensionContainer{},
ProtocolIE-Container{},
SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION,
SABP-PROTOCOL-IES
FROM SABP-Containers
id-Broadcast-Message-Content,
id-Category,
id-Criticality-Diagnostics,
id-Cause,
id-Data-Coding-Scheme,
id-Failure-List,
id-Message-Identifier,
id-New-Serial-Number,
id-Number-of-Broadcasts-Completed-List,
id-Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested,
id-Old-Serial-Number,
id-Paging-ETWS-Indicator,
id-Radio-Resource-Loading-List,
id-Recovery-Indication,
id-Repetition-Period,
id-Serial-Number,
id-Service-Areas-List,
id-WarningSecurityInfo,
id-Warning-Type,
id-Broadcast-Message-Content-Validity-Indicator
FROM SABP-Constants;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Write-Replace
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Write-Replace ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {Write-Replace-IEs} },
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {Write-Replace-Extensions} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
Write-Replace-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Message-Identifier CRITICALITY reject TYPE Message-Identifier PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-New-Serial-Number CRITICALITY reject TYPE New-Serial-Number PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Old-Serial-Number CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Old-Serial-Number PRESENCE
optional } \|
{ ID id-Service-Areas-List CRITICALITY reject TYPE Service-Areas-List PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Category CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Category PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-Repetition-Period CRITICALITY reject TYPE Repetition-Period PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested
CRITICALITY reject TYPE Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Data-Coding-Scheme CRITICALITY reject TYPE Data-Coding-Scheme PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Broadcast-Message-Content
CRITICALITY reject TYPE Broadcast-Message-Content PRESENCE mandatory },
...
}
Write-Replace-Extensions SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
{ ID id-WarningSecurityInfo CRITICALITY ignore EXTENSION WarningSecurityInfo
PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-Paging-ETWS-Indicator CRITICALITY ignore EXTENSION Paging-ETWS-
Indicator PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-Warning-Type CRITICALITY ignore EXTENSION Warning-Type PRESENCE
optional } \|
{ ID id-Broadcast-Message-Content-Validity-Indicator CRITICALITY ignore
EXTENSION Broadcast-Message-Content-Validity-Indicator PRESENCE optional },
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Write-Replace-Complete
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Write-Replace-Complete ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {Write-Replace-Complete-IEs} },
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {Write-Replace-Complete-
Extensions} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
Write-Replace-Complete-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Message-Identifier CRITICALITY reject TYPE Message-Identifier PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-New-Serial-Number CRITICALITY reject TYPE New-Serial-Number PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Number-of-Broadcasts-Completed-List
CRITICALITY reject TYPE Number-of-Broadcasts-Completed-List
PRESENCE mandatory }\|
{ ID id-Criticality-Diagnostics
CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Criticality-Diagnostics PRESENCE optional },
...
}
Write-Replace-Complete-Extensions SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Write-Replace-Failure
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Write-Replace-Failure ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {Write-Replace-Failure-IEs} },
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {Write-Replace-Failure-
Extensions} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
Write-Replace-Failure-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Message-Identifier CRITICALITY reject TYPE Message-Identifier PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-New-Serial-Number CRITICALITY reject TYPE New-Serial-Number PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Failure-List CRITICALITY reject TYPE Failure-List PRESENCE mandatory }
\|
{ ID id-Number-of-Broadcasts-Completed-List
CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Number-of-Broadcasts-Completed-List
PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-Criticality-Diagnostics
CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Criticality-Diagnostics PRESENCE optional },
...
}
Write-Replace-Failure-Extensions SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Kill
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Kill ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{Kill-IEs}},
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer {{Kill-Extensions}} OPTIONAL,
...
}
Kill-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Message-Identifier CRITICALITY reject TYPE Message-Identifier PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Old-Serial-Number CRITICALITY reject TYPE Old-Serial-Number PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Service-Areas-List CRITICALITY reject TYPE Service-Areas-List PRESENCE
mandatory } ,
...
}
Kill-Extensions SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Kill-Complete
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Kill-Complete ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{Kill-Complete-IEs}},
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer {{Kill-Complete-Extensions}}
OPTIONAL,
...
}
Kill-Complete-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Message-Identifier CRITICALITY reject TYPE Message-Identifier PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Old-Serial-Number CRITICALITY reject TYPE Old-Serial-Number PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Number-of-Broadcasts-Completed-List
CRITICALITY reject TYPE Number-of-Broadcasts-Completed-List
PRESENCE mandatory }\|
{ ID id-Criticality-Diagnostics
CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Criticality-Diagnostics PRESENCE optional },
...
}
Kill-Complete-Extensions SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Kill-Failure
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Kill-Failure ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{Kill-Failure-IEs}},
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer {{Kill-Failure-Extensions}}
OPTIONAL,
...
}
Kill-Failure-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Message-Identifier CRITICALITY reject TYPE Message-Identifier PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Old-Serial-Number CRITICALITY reject TYPE Old-Serial-Number PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Failure-List CRITICALITY reject TYPE Failure-List PRESENCE mandatory }
\|
{ ID id-Number-of-Broadcasts-Completed-List
CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Number-of-Broadcasts-Completed-List
PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-Criticality-Diagnostics
CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Criticality-Diagnostics PRESENCE optional },
...
}
Kill-Failure-Extensions SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Load-Query
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Load-Query ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{Load-Query-IEs}},
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer {{Load-Query-Extensions}}
OPTIONAL,
...
}
Load-Query-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Service-Areas-List CRITICALITY reject TYPE Service-Areas-List PRESENCE
mandatory } ,
...
}
Load-Query-Extensions SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Load-Query-Complete
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Load-Query-Complete ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{Load-Query-Complete-IEs}},
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer {{Load-Query-Complete-
Extensions}} OPTIONAL,
...
}
Load-Query-Complete-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Radio-Resource-Loading-List
CRITICALITY reject TYPE Radio-Resource-Loading-List
PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Criticality-Diagnostics
CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Criticality-Diagnostics PRESENCE optional },
...
}
Load-Query-Complete-Extensions SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Load-Query-Failure
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Load-Query-Failure ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{Load-Query-Failure-IEs}},
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer {{Load-Query-Failure-
Extensions}} OPTIONAL,
...
}
Load-Query-Failure-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Failure-List CRITICALITY reject TYPE Failure-List PRESENCE mandatory }
\|
{ ID id-Radio-Resource-Loading-List
CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Radio-Resource-Loading-List
PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-Criticality-Diagnostics
CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Criticality-Diagnostics PRESENCE optional },
...
}
Load-Query-Failure-Extensions SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Message-Status-Query
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Message-Status-Query ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{Message-Status-Query-IEs}},
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer {{Message-Status-Query-
Extensions}} OPTIONAL,
...
}
Message-Status-Query-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Message-Identifier CRITICALITY reject TYPE Message-Identifier PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Old-Serial-Number CRITICALITY reject TYPE Old-Serial-Number PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Service-Areas-List CRITICALITY reject TYPE Service-Areas-List PRESENCE
mandatory } ,
...
}
Message-Status-Query-Extensions SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Message-Status-Query-Complete
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Message-Status-Query-Complete ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{Message-Status-Query-Complete-IEs}},
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer {{Message-Status-Query-Complete-
Extensions}} OPTIONAL,
...
}
Message-Status-Query-Complete-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Message-Identifier CRITICALITY reject TYPE Message-Identifier PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Old-Serial-Number CRITICALITY reject TYPE Old-Serial-Number PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Number-of-Broadcasts-Completed-List
CRITICALITY reject TYPE Number-of-Broadcasts-Completed-List
PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Criticality-Diagnostics
CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Criticality-Diagnostics PRESENCE optional },
...
}
Message-Status-Query-Complete-Extensions SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Message-Status-Query-Failure
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Message-Status-Query-Failure ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{Message-Status-Query-Failure-IEs}},
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer {{Message-Status-Query-Failure-
Extensions}} OPTIONAL,
...
}
Message-Status-Query-Failure-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Message-Identifier CRITICALITY reject TYPE Message-Identifier PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Failure-List CRITICALITY reject TYPE Failure-List PRESENCE mandatory }
\|
{ ID id-Old-Serial-Number CRITICALITY reject TYPE Old-Serial-Number PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Number-of-Broadcasts-Completed-List
CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Number-of-Broadcasts-Completed-List
PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-Criticality-Diagnostics
CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Criticality-Diagnostics PRESENCE optional },
...
}
Message-Status-Query-Failure-Extensions SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Reset
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Reset ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{Reset-IEs}},
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer {{Reset-Extensions}} OPTIONAL,
...
}
Reset-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Service-Areas-List CRITICALITY reject TYPE Service-Areas-List PRESENCE
mandatory } ,
...
}
Reset-Extensions SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Reset-Complete
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Reset-Complete ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{Reset-Complete-IEs}},
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer {{Reset-Complete-Extensions}}
OPTIONAL,
...
}
Reset-Complete-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Service-Areas-List CRITICALITY reject TYPE Service-Areas-List PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Criticality-Diagnostics
CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Criticality-Diagnostics PRESENCE optional },
...
}
Reset-Complete-Extensions SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Reset-Failure
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Reset-Failure ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{Reset-Failure-IEs}},
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer {{Reset-Failure-Extensions}}
OPTIONAL,
...
}
Reset-Failure-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Failure-List CRITICALITY reject TYPE Failure-List PRESENCE mandatory }
\|
{ ID id-Service-Areas-List CRITICALITY reject TYPE Service-Areas-List PRESENCE
optional } \|
{ ID id-Criticality-Diagnostics
CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Criticality-Diagnostics PRESENCE optional } ,
...
}
Reset-Failure-Extensions SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Restart
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Restart ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{Restart-IEs}},
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer {{Restart-Extensions}} OPTIONAL,
...
}
Restart-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Service-Areas-List CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Service-Areas-List PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Recovery-Indication CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Recovery-Indication
PRESENCE optional } ,
...
}
Restart-Extensions SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Failure
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Failure ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{Failure-IEs}},
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer {{Failure-Extensions}} OPTIONAL,
...
}
Failure-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Service-Areas-List CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Service-Areas-List PRESENCE
mandatory } ,
...
}
Failure-Extensions SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Error-Indication
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Error-Indication ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{Error-Indication-IEs}},
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer {{Error-Indication-Extensions}}
OPTIONAL,
...
}
Error-Indication-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Message-Identifier CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Message-Identifier PRESENCE
optional } \|
{ ID id-Serial-Number CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Serial-Number PRESENCE optional
} \|
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-Criticality-Diagnostics
CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Criticality-Diagnostics PRESENCE optional },
...
}
Error-Indication-Extensions SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
END
### 9.3.4 Information Element Definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Information Element Definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SABP-IEs {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
umts-Access (20) modules (3) sabp (3) version1 (1) sabp-IEs (2) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
IMPORTS
maxNrOfErrors,
maxnoofSAI,
maxNrOfLevels,
id-MessageStructure,
id-TypeOfError
FROM SABP-Constants
Criticality,
ProcedureCode,
TriggeringMessage,
ProtocolIE-ID
FROM SABP-CommonDataTypes
ProtocolExtensionContainer{},
SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION
FROM SABP-Containers;
\-- A
Available-Bandwidth ::= INTEGER (0..20480)
\-- bits/sec
\-- B
Broadcast-Message-Content ::= BIT STRING (SIZE (1..9968))-- This IE is sent
from the CN to the RNC containing user information i.e.
\-- the message.
Broadcast-Message-Content-Validity-Indicator ::= ENUMERATED {
broadcast-Message-Content-not-valid,
...
}
\-- C
Category ::= ENUMERATED {
high-priority,
background-priority,
normal-priority,
default-priority,
...
}
Cause ::= INTEGER {
parameter-not-recognised (0),
parameter-value-invalid (1),
valid-CN-message-not-identified (2),
service-area-identity-not-valid (3),
unrecognised-message (4),
missing-mandatory-element (5),
rNC-capacity-exceeded (6),
rNC-memory-exceeded (7),
service-area-broadcast-not-supported (8),
service-area-broadcast-not-operational (9),
message-reference-already-used (10),
unspecifed-error (11),
transfer-syntax-error (12),
semantic-error (13),
message-not-compatible-with-receiver-state (14),
abstract-syntax-error-reject (15),
abstract-syntax-error-ignore-and-notify (16),
abstract-syntax-error-falsely-constructed-message (17)
} (0..255)
Criticality-Diagnostics ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode ProcedureCode OPTIONAL,
triggeringMessage TriggeringMessage OPTIONAL,
procedureCriticality Criticality OPTIONAL,
iEsCriticalityDiagnostics CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-List OPTIONAL,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {CriticalityDiagnostics-ExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
CriticalityDiagnostics-ExtIEs SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrOfErrors)) OF
SEQUENCE {
iECriticality Criticality,
iE-ID ProtocolIE-ID,
repetitionNumber RepetitionNumber0 OPTIONAL,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-List-
ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-List-ExtIEs SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
{ ID id-MessageStructure CRITICALITY ignore EXTENSION MessageStructure
PRESENCE optional }\|
{ ID id-TypeOfError CRITICALITY ignore EXTENSION TypeOfError PRESENCE
mandatory },
...
}
MessageStructure ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrOfLevels)) OF
SEQUENCE {
iE-ID ProtocolIE-ID,
repetitionNumber RepetitionNumber1 OPTIONAL,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {MessageStructure-ExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
MessageStructure-ExtIEs SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- D
Data-Coding-Scheme ::= BIT STRING (SIZE (8))
\-- E
\-- F
Failure-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxnoofSAI)) OF Failure-List-Item
Failure-List-Item ::= SEQUENCE {
service-area-identifier Service-Area-Identifier,
cause Cause,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {FailureListItemIE-ExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
FailureListItemIE-ExtIEs SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- G
\-- H
\-- I
\-- J
\-- K
\-- L
\-- M
Message-Identifier ::= BIT STRING (SIZE (16))
\-- N
New-Serial-Number ::= Serial-Number
Number-of-Broadcasts-Completed-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxnoofSAI)) OF
Number-of-Broadcasts-Completed-List-Item
Number-of-Broadcasts-Completed-List-Item ::= SEQUENCE {
service-area-identifier Service-Area-Identifier,
number-of-broadcasts-completed INTEGER (0..65535),
number-of-broadcasts-completed-info Number-Of-Broadcasts-Completed-Info
OPTIONAL,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {NoOfBroadcastsCompletedListItemIE-
ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
NoOfBroadcastsCompletedListItemIE-ExtIEs SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
Number-Of-Broadcasts-Completed-Info ::= ENUMERATED {
overflow,
unknown,
...
}
Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested ::= INTEGER {
broadcast-indefinitely (0)
} (0..65535)
\-- O
Old-Serial-Number ::= Serial-Number
\-- P
Paging-ETWS-Indicator ::= ENUMERATED {
paging,
...
}
\-- Q
\-- R
Radio-Resource-Loading-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxnoofSAI)) OF
Radio-Resource-Loading-List-Item
Radio-Resource-Loading-List-Item ::= SEQUENCE {
service-area-identifier Service-Area-Identifier,
available-bandwidth Available-Bandwidth,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {RadioResourceLoadingListItemIE-
ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
RadioResourceLoadingListItemIE-ExtIEs SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
Recovery-Indication ::= ENUMERATED {
data-lost,
data-available
}
RepetitionNumber0 ::= INTEGER(0..255)
RepetitionNumber1 ::= INTEGER(1..256)
Repetition-Period ::= INTEGER (1..4096)
\-- Each unit represents a repetition of one second to a maximum of
\-- once per 4096 seconds (\~1 hour).
\-- S
Serial-Number ::= BIT STRING (SIZE (16))
Service-Area-Identifier ::= SEQUENCE {
pLMNidentity OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))
\-- Digits 0 to 9, two digits per octet. --
\-- Each octet encoded 0000 to 1001. --
\-- 1111 used as filler --
\-- Bit 4 to 1 of octet n encoding digit 2n-1. --
\-- Bit 8 to 5 of octet n encoding digit 2n. --
\-- The PLMN identity consists of 3 digits from MCC --
\-- followed by either a filler plus 2 digits --
\-- from MNC (in case of 2 digit MNC) or 3 digits --
\-- from MNC (in case of 3 digit MNC). -- ,
lac OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))
\-- 0000 and FFFE not allowed -- ,
sac OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))
}
\-- **TODO** The IE type for these parameters is not known as yet
Service-Areas-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxnoofSAI)) OF Service-Area-
Identifier
\-- T
TypeOfError ::= ENUMERATED {
not-understood,
missing,
...
}
\-- U
\-- V
\-- W
WarningSecurityInfo ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (50))
Warning-Type ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2))
\-- X
\-- Y
END
### 9.3.5 Common Definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Common definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SABP-CommonDataTypes {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
umts-Access (20) modules (3) sabp (3) version1 (1) sabp-CommonDataTypes (3) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
Criticality ::= ENUMERATED { reject, ignore, notify }
Presence ::= ENUMERATED { optional, conditional, mandatory }
ProcedureCode ::= INTEGER (0..255)
ProtocolExtensionID ::= INTEGER (0..65535)
ProtocolIE-ID ::= INTEGER (0..65535)
TriggeringMessage ::= ENUMERATED {initiating-message, successful-outcome,
unsuccessful-outcome, outcome}
END
### 9.3.6 Constant Definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Constant definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SABP-Constants {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
umts-Access (20) modules (3) sabp (3) version1 (1) sabp-Constants (4) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Elementary Procedures
\--
\-- **************************************************************
id-Write-Replace INTEGER ::= 0
id-Kill INTEGER ::= 1
id-Load-Status-Enquiry INTEGER ::= 2
id-Message-Status-Query INTEGER ::= 3
id-Restart-Indication INTEGER ::= 4
id-Reset INTEGER ::= 5
id-Failure-Indication INTEGER ::= 6
id-Error-Indication INTEGER ::= 7
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
id-Broadcast-Message-Content INTEGER ::= 0
id-Category INTEGER ::= 1
id-Cause INTEGER ::= 2
id-Criticality-Diagnostics INTEGER ::=3
id-Data-Coding-Scheme INTEGER ::= 4
id-Failure-List INTEGER ::= 5
id-Message-Identifier INTEGER ::= 6
id-New-Serial-Number INTEGER ::= 7
id-Number-of-Broadcasts-Completed-List INTEGER ::= 8
id-Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested INTEGER ::= 9
id-Old-Serial-Number INTEGER ::= 10
id-Radio-Resource-Loading-List INTEGER ::= 11
id-Recovery-Indication INTEGER ::= 12
id-Repetition-Period INTEGER ::= 13
id-Serial-Number INTEGER ::= 14
id-Service-Areas-List INTEGER ::= 15
id-MessageStructure INTEGER ::= 16
id-TypeOfError INTEGER ::= 17
id-Paging-ETWS-Indicator INTEGER ::= 18
id-Warning-Type INTEGER ::= 19
id-WarningSecurityInfo INTEGER ::= 20
id-Broadcast-Message-Content-Validity-Indicator INTEGER ::= 21
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Extension constants
\--
\-- **************************************************************
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Lists
\--
\-- **************************************************************
maxNrOfErrors INTEGER ::= 256
maxnoofSAI INTEGER ::= 65535
maxProtocolExtensions INTEGER ::= 65535
maxProtocolIEs INTEGER ::= 65535
maxNrOfLevels INTEGER ::= 256
END
### 9.3.7 Container Definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SABP-Containers {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
umts-Access (20) modules (3) sabp (3) version1 (1) sabp-Containers (5) }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IE parameter types from other modules.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
IMPORTS
Criticality,
Presence,
ProtocolExtensionID,
ProtocolIE-ID
FROM SABP-CommonDataTypes
maxProtocolExtensions,
maxProtocolIEs
FROM SABP-Constants;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Class Definition for Protocol IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= CLASS {
&id ProtocolIE-ID UNIQUE,
&criticality Criticality DEFAULT ignore,
&Value,
&presence Presence
}
WITH SYNTAX {
ID &id
CRITICALITY &criticality
TYPE &Value
PRESENCE &presence
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Class Definition for Protocol Extensions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= CLASS {
&id ProtocolExtensionID UNIQUE,
&criticality Criticality DEFAULT ignore,
&Extension,
&presence Presence
}
WITH SYNTAX {
ID &id
CRITICALITY &criticality
EXTENSION &Extension
PRESENCE &presence
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container for Protocol IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ProtocolIE-Container {SABP-PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (0..maxProtocolIEs)) OF
ProtocolIE-Field {{IEsSetParam}}
ProtocolIE-Field {SABP-PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::= SEQUENCE {
id SABP-PROTOCOL-IES.&id ({IEsSetParam}),
criticality SABP-PROTOCOL-IES.&criticality ({IEsSetParam}{\@id}),
value SABP-PROTOCOL-IES.&Value ({IEsSetParam}{\@id})
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container Lists for Protocol IE Containers
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ProtocolIE-ContainerList {INTEGER : lowerBound, INTEGER : upperBound, SABP-
PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (lowerBound..upperBound)) OF
ProtocolIE-Container {{IEsSetParam}}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container for Protocol Extensions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ProtocolExtensionContainer {SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION : ExtensionSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxProtocolExtensions)) OF
ProtocolExtensionField {{ExtensionSetParam}}
ProtocolExtensionField {SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION : ExtensionSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE {
id SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION.&id ({ExtensionSetParam}),
criticality SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION.&criticality ({ExtensionSetParam}{\@id}),
extensionValue SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION.&Extension ({ExtensionSetParam}{\@id})
}
END
## 9.4 Message Transfer Syntax
SABP shall use the ASN.1 Basic Packed Encoding Rules (BASIC-PER) Aligned
Variant as transfer syntax as specified in ref. ITU-T Rec. X.691 [9].
# 10 Handling of Unknown, Unforeseen or Erroneous Protocol Data
## 10.1 General
Protocol Error cases can be divided into three classes:
• Transfer Syntax Error;
• Abstract Syntax Error;
• Logical Error.
Protocol errors can occur in the following functions within a receiving node:
Figure 14: Protocol Errors in SABP
The information stated in subclauses 10.2, 10.3 and 10.4, to be included in
the message used when reporting an error, is what at minimum shall be
included. Other optional information elements within the message may also be
included, if available. This is also valid for the case when the reporting is
done with a response message. The latter is an exception to what is stated in
subclause 4.1.
## 10.2 Transfer Syntax Error
A Transfer Syntax Error occurs when the receiver is not able to decode the
received physical message Transfer syntax errors are always detected in the
process of ASN.1 decoding. If a Transfer Syntax Error occurs, the receiver
should initiate Error Indication procedure with appropriate cause value for
the Transfer Syntax protocol error.
## 10.3 Abstract Syntax Error
### 10.3.1 General
An Abstract Syntax Error occurs when the receiving functional SABP entity:
1\. receives IEs or IE groups that cannot be understood (unknown IE id);
2\. receives IEs for which the logical range is violated (e.g.: ASN.1
definition: 0 to 15, the logical range is 0 to 10 (values 11 to 15 are
undefined), and 12 will be received; this case will be handled as an abstract
syntax error using criticality information sent by the originator of the
message);
3\. does not receive IEs or IE groups but according to the specified presence
of the concerning object, the IEs or IE groups should have been present in the
received message;
> 4\. receives IEs or IE groups that are defined to be part of that message in
> wrong order or with too many occurrences of the same IE or IE group;
5\. receives IEs or IE groups but according to the conditional presence of the
concerning object and the specified condition, the IEs or IE groups should not
have been present in the received message.
Cases 1 and 2 (not comprehended IE/IE group) are handled based on received
Criticality information. Case 3 (missing IE/IE group) is handled based on
Criticality information and Presence information for the missing IE/IE group
specified in the version of the specification used by the receiver. Case 4
(IEs or IE groups in wrong order or with too many occurrences) and Case 5
(erroneously present conditional IEs or IE groups) result in rejecting the
procedure.
If an Abstract Syntax Error occurs, the receiver shall read the remaining
message and shall then for each detected Abstract Syntax Error act according
to the Criticality Information and Presence Information for the IE/IE group
due to which Abstract Syntax Error occurred in accordance with subclauses
10.3.4 and 10.3.5. The handling of cases 4 and 5 is specified in subclause
10.3.6.
### 10.3.2 Criticality Information
In the SABP messages there is criticality information set for individual IEs
and/or IE groups. This criticality information instructs the receiver how to
act when receiving an IE or an IE group that is not comprehended i.e. the
entire item (IE or IE group) which is not (fully or partially) comprehended
shall be treated in accordance with its own criticality information as
specified in subclause 10.3.4.
In addition, the criticality information is used in case of the missing IE/IE
group abstract syntax error (see subclause 10.3.5).
The receiving node shall take different actions depending on the value of the
Criticality Information. The three possible values of the Criticality
Information for an IE/IE group are:
\- Reject IE;
\- Ignore IE and Notify Sender;
\- Ignore IE.
The following rules restrict when a receiving entity may consider an IE, an IE
group or an EP not comprehended (not implemented), and when action based on
criticality information is applicable:
1\. IE or IE group: When one new or modified IE or IE group is implemented for
one EP from a standard version, then other new or modified IEs or IE groups
specified for that EP in that standard version shall be considered
comprehended by the receiving entity (some may still remain unsupported).
2\. EP: The comprehension of different EPs within a standard version or
between different standard versions is not mandated. Any EP that is not
supported may be considered not comprehended, even if another EP from that
standard version is comprehended, and action based on criticality shall be
applied.
### 10.3.3 Presence Information
For many IEs/IE groups which are optional according to the ASN.1 transfer
syntax, SABP specifies separately if the presence of these IEs/IE groups is
optional or mandatory with respect to RNS application by means of the presence
field of the concerning object of class SABP-PROTOCOL-IES, SABP-PROTOCOL-IES-
PAIR, SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION or SABP-PRIVATE-IES.
The presence field of the indicated classes supports three values:
1\. Optional;
2\. Conditional;
3\. Mandatory.
If an IE/IE group is not included in a received message and the presence of
the IE/IE group is mandatory or the presence is conditional and the condition
is true according to the version of the specification used by the receiver, an
abstract syntax error occurs due to a missing IE/IE group.
### 10.3.4 Not comprehended IE/IE group
#### 10.3.4.1 Procedure Code
The receiving node shall treat the different types of received criticality
information of the _Procedure Code_ according to the following:
Reject IE:
\- If a message is received with a _Procedure Code_ marked with \"_Reject IE_
\" which the receiving node does not comprehend, the receiving node shall
reject the procedure using the Error Indication procedure.
Ignore IE and Notify Sender:
\- If a message is received with a _Procedure Code_ marked with \"_Ignore IE
and Notify Sender_ \" which the receiving node does not comprehend, the
receiving node shall ignore the procedure and initiate the Error Indication
procedure.
Ignore IE:
\- If a message is received with a _Procedure Code_ marked with \"_Ignore IE_
\" which the receiving node does not comprehend, the receiving node shall
ignore the procedure.
When using the Error Indication procedure to reject a procedure or to report
an ignored procedure it shall include the _Procedure Code_ IE, the _Triggering
Message_ IE, and the _Procedure Criticality_ IE in the _Criticality
Diagnostics_ IE.
#### 10.3.4.1A Type of Message
When the receiving node cannot decode the _Type of Message_ IE, the Error
Indication procedure shall be initiated with an appropriate cause value.
#### 10.3.4.2 IEs other than the Procedure Code and Type of Message
The receiving node shall treat the different types of received criticality
information of an IE/IE group other than the _Procedure Code_ IE and _Type of
Message_ IE according to the following:
**Reject IE:**
\- If a message _initiating_ a procedure is received containing one or more
IEs/IE groups marked with \"_Reject IE_ \" which the receiving node does not
comprehend; none of the functional requests of the message shall be executed.
The receiving node shall reject the procedure and report the rejection of one
or more IEs/IE groups using the message normally used to report unsuccessful
outcome of the procedure. In case the information received in the initiating
message was insufficient to determine a value for all IEs that are required to
be present in the message used to report the unsuccessful outcome of the
procedure, the receiving node shall instead terminate the procedure and
initiate the Error Indication procedure.
\- If a message _initiating_ a procedure that does not have a message to
report unsuccessful outcome is received containing one or more IEs/IE groups
marked with \"_Reject IE_ \" which the receiving node does not comprehend, the
receiving node shall terminate the procedure and initiate the Error Indication
procedure.
\- If a _response_ message is received containing one or more IEs marked with
\"_Reject IE_ \" which the receiving node does no comprehend, the receiving
node shall consider the procedure as unsuccessfully terminated and initiate
local error handling.
**Ignore IE and Notify Sender:**
\- If a message _initiating_ a procedure is received containing one or more
Ies/IE groups marked with \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" which the
receiving node does not comprehend, the receiving node shall ignore the
content of the not comprehended IEs/IE groups, continue with the procedure as
if the not comprehended IEs/IE groups were not received (except for the
reporting) using the understood IEs/IE groups, and report in the response
message of the procedure that one or more IEs/IE groups have been ignored. In
case the information received in the initiating message was insufficient to
determine a value for all IEs that are required to be present in the response
message, the receiving node shall instead terminate the procedure and initiate
the Error Indication procedure.
\- if a message _initiating_ a procedure that does not have a message to
report the outcome of the procedure is received containing one or more IEs/IE
groups marked with \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" which the receiving node
does not comprehend, the receiving node shall ignore the content of the not
comprehended IEs/IE groups, continue with the procedure as if the not
comprehended IEs/IE groups were not received (except for the reporting) using
the understood IEs/IE groups, and initiate the Error Indication procedure to
report that one or more IEs/IE groups have been ignored.
\- If a _response_ message is received containing one or more IEs/IE groups
marked with \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" which the receiving node does
not comprehend, the receiving node shall ignore the content of the not
comprehended IE/IE groups, continue with the procedure as if the not
comprehended IEs/IE groups were not received (except for the reporting) using
the understood IEs/IE groups and initiate the Error Indication procedure.
**Ignore IE:**
\- If a message _initiating_ a procedure is received containing one or more
IEs/IE groups marked with \"_Ignore IE_ \" which the receiving node does not
comprehend, the receiving node shall ignore the content of the not
comprehended IEs/IE groups and continue with the procedure as if the not
comprehended IEs/IE groups were not received using only the understood IEs/IE
groups.
\- If a _response_ message is received containing one or more IEs/IE groups
marked with \"_Ignore_ _IE_ \" which the receiving node does not comprehend,
the receiving node shall ignore the content of the not comprehended IEs/IE
groups and continue with the procedure as if the not comprehended IEs/IE
groups were not received using the understood IEs/IE groups.
When reporting not comprehended IEs/IE groups marked with \"_Reject IE_ \" or
\"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" using a response message defined for the
procedure, the _Information Element Criticality Diagnostics_ IE shall be
included in the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE for each reported IE/IE group. In
the _Information Element Criticality Diagnostics_ IE the _Repetition Number_
IE shall be included and in addition, if the not comprehended IE/IE group is
not at message hierarchy level 1 (top level; see annex A) also the _Message
Structure_ IE shall be included.
When reporting not comprehended IEs/IE groups marked with \"_Reject IE_ \" or
\"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" using the Error Indication procedure, the
_Procedure Code_ IE, the _Triggering Message_ IE, _Procedure Criticality_ IE,
and the _Information Element Criticality Diagnostics_ IE shall be included in
the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE for each reported IE/IE group. In the
_Information Element Criticality Diagnostics_ IE the _Repetition Number_ IE
shall be included and in addition, if the not comprehended IE/IE group is not
at message hierarchy level 1 (top level; see annex A) also the _Message
Structure_ IE shall be included.
### 10.3.5 Missing IE or IE group
The receiving node shall treat the missing IE/IE group according to the
criticality information for the missing IE/IE group in the received message
specified in the version of the present document used by the receiver:
**Reject IE:**
\- if a received message _initiating_ a procedure is missing one or more
IEs/IE groups with specified criticality \"_Reject IE_ \"; none of the
functional requests of the message shall be executed. The receiving node shall
reject the procedure and report the missing IEs/IE groups using the message
normally used to report unsuccessful outcome of the procedure. In case the
information received in the initiating message was insufficient to determine a
value for all IEs that are required to be present in the message used to
report the unsuccessful outcome of the procedure, the receiving node shall
instead terminate the procedure and initiate the Error Indication procedure.
\- if a received message _initiating_ a procedure that does not have a message
to report unsuccessful outcome is missing one or more IEs/IE groups with
specified criticality \"_Reject IE_ \", the receiving node shall terminate the
procedure and initiate the Error Indication procedure.
\- if a received _response_ message is missing one or more IEs/IE groups with
specified criticality \"_Reject IE_ , the receiving node shall consider the
procedure as unsuccessfully terminated and initiate local error handling.
**Ignore IE and Notify Sender:**
\- if a received message _initiating_ a procedure is missing one or more
IEs/IE groups with specified criticality \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \",
the receiving node shall ignore that those IEs are missing and continue with
the procedure based on the other IEs/IE groups present in the message and
report in the response message of the procedure that one or more IEs/IE groups
were missing. In case the information received in the initiating message was
insufficient to determine a value for all IEs that are required to be present
in the response message, the receiving node shall instead terminate the
procedure and initiate the Error Indication procedure.
\- if a received message _initiating_ a procedure that does not have a message
to report the outcome of the procedure is missing one or more IEs/IE groups
with specified criticality \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \", the receiving
node shall ignore that those IEs are missing and continue with the procedure
based on the other IEs/IE groups present in the message and initiate the Error
Indication procedure to report that one or more IEs/IE groups were missing.
\- if a received _response_ message is missing one or more IEs/IE groups with
specified criticality \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \", the receiving node
shall ignore that those IEs are missing and continue with the procedure based
on the other IEs/IE groups present in the message and initiate the Error
Indication procedure to report that one or more IEs/IE groups were missing.
**Ignore IE:**
\- if a received message _initiating_ a procedure is missing one or more
IEs/IE groups with specified criticality \"_Ignore IE_ \", the receiving node
shall ignore that those IEs are missing and continue with the procedure based
on the other IEs/IE groups present in the message.
\- if a received _response_ message is missing one or more IEs/IE groups with
specified criticality \"_Ignore_ _IE_ \", the receiving node shall ignore that
those IEs/IE groups are missing and continue with the procedure based on the
other IEs/IE groups present in the message.
When reporting missing IEs/IE groups with specified criticality \"_Reject IE_
\" or \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" using a response message defined for
the procedure, the _Information Element Criticality Diagnostics_ IE shall be
included in the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE for each reported IE/IE group. In
the _Information Element Criticality Diagnostics_ IE the _Repetition Number_
IE shall be included and in addition, if the missing IE/IE group is not at
message hierarchy level 1 (top level; see annex A) also the _Message
Structure_ IE shall be included.
When reporting missing IEs/IE groups with specified criticality \"_Reject IE_
\" or \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" using the Error Indication procedure,
the _Procedure Code_ IE, the _Triggering Message_ IE, _Procedure Criticality_
IE, and the _Information Element Criticality Diagnostics_ IE shall be included
in the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE for each reported IE/IE group. In the
_Information Element Criticality Diagnostics_ IE the _Repetition Number_ IE
shall be included and in addition, if the missing IE/IE group is not at
message hierarchy level 1 (top level; see annex A) also the _Message
Structure_ IE shall be included.
### 10.3.6 IEs or IE groups received in wrong order or with too many
occurrences or erroneously present
If a message with IEs or IE groups in wrong order or with too many occurrences
is received or if IEs or IE groups with a conditional presence are present
when the condition is not met (i.e. erroneously present), the receiving node
shall behave according to the following:
\- If a message _initiating_ a procedure is received containing IEs or IE
groups in wrong order or with too many occurrences or erroneously present,
none of the functional requests of the message shall be executed. The
receiving node shall reject the procedure and report the cause value
\"Abstract Syntax Error (Falsely Constructed Message)\" using the message
normally used to report unsuccessful outcome of the procedure. In case the
information received in the initiating message was insufficient to determine a
value for all IEs that are required to be present in the message used to
report the unsuccessful outcome of the procedure, the receiving node shall
instead terminate the procedure and initiate the Error Indication procedure.
\- If a message _initiating_ a procedure that does not have a message to
report unsuccessful outcome is received containing IEs or IE groups in wrong
order or with too many occurrences or erroneously present, the receiving node
shall terminate the procedure and initiate the Error Indication procedure, and
use cause value \"Abstract Syntax Error (Falsely Constructed Message)\".
\- If a _response_ message is received containing IEs or IE groups in wrong
order or with too many occurrences or erroneously present, the receiving node
shall consider the procedure as unsuccessfully terminated and initiate local
error handling.
When determining the correct order only the IEs specified in the specification
version used by the receiver shall be considered.
## 10.4 Logical Error
Logical error situations occur when a message is comprehended correctly, but
the information contained within the message is not valid (i.e. semantic
error), or describes a procedure which is not compatible with the state of the
receiver. In these conditions, the following behaviour shall be performed
(unless otherwise specified) as defined by the class of the elementary
procedure, irrespective of the criticality information of the IE\'s/IE groups
containing the erroneous values.
**Class 1:**
Where the logical error occurs in a request message of a class 1 procedure,
and the procedure has a message to report this unsuccessful outcome, this
message shall be sent with an appropriate cause value. Typical cause values
are:
\- Semantic Error;
\- Message not compatible with receiver state.
Where the logical error is contained in a request message of a class 1
procedure, and the procedure does not have a message to report this
unsuccessful outcome, the procedure shall be terminated and the Error
Indication procedure shall be initiated with an appropriate cause value. The
_Procedure Code_ IE and the _Triggering Message_ IE within the _Criticality
Diagnostics_ IE shall then be included in order to identify the message
containing the logical error.
Where the logical error exists in a response message of a class 1 procedure,
the procedure shall be considered as unsuccessfully terminated and local error
handling shall be initiated.
**Class 2:**
Where the logical error occurs in a message of a class 2 procedure, the
procedure shall be terminated and the Error Indication procedure shall be
initiated with an appropriate cause value. The _Procedure Code_ IE and the
_Triggering Message_ IE within the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE shall then be
included in order to identify the message containing the logical error.
## 10.5 Exceptions
The error handling for all the cases described hereafter shall take precedence
over any other error handling described in the other subclauses of clause 10.
\- If any type of error (Transfer Syntax Error, Abstract Syntax Error or
Logical Error) is detected in the ERROR INDICATION message, it shall not
trigger the Error Indication procedure in the receiving Node but local error
handling.
\- In case a response message or Error Indication message needs to be
returned, but the information necessary to determine the receiver of that
message is missing, the procedure shall be considered as unsuccessfully
terminated and local error handling shall be initiated.
\- If an error that terminates a procedure occurs, the returned cause value
shall reflect the error that caused the termination of the procedure even if
one or more abstract syntax errors with criticality "ignore and notify" have
earlier occurred within the same procedure.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Guidelines for Usage of the Criticality
Diagnostics IE
## A.1 EXAMPLE MESSAGE Layout
Assume the following message format:
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | P | Range | IE type | Se | Crit | A | | E/Group | resence | | and | mantics | icality | ssigned | | Name | | | re | desc | | Crit | | | | | ference | ription | | icality | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Message | M | | | | YES | reject | | Type | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | A | M | | | | YES | reject | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **B** | M | | | | YES | reject | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **> E** | | _1..\ _ | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > ** | | _1..\ >F_ _| | maxF >_ | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | | _0..3, | | | EACH | ignore | | >>>G | | ..._ | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > ** | | _1..\ >H_ _| | maxH >_ | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | | _0..3, | | | EACH | ignore | | >>>G | | ..._ | | | | and | | | | | | | | notify | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > >>G | M | | | | YES | reject | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > ** | | _1..\ >J_ _| | maxJ >_ | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | | _0..3, | | | EACH | reject | | >>>G | | ..._ | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **C** | M | | | | YES | reject | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **> K** | | _1..\ _ | | | | and | | | | | | | | notify | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > ** | | _1..\ >L_ _| | maxL >_ | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | O | | | | - | | | >>>M | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | D | M | | | | YES | reject | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Note 1. The IEs F, J, and L do not have assigned criticality. The IEs F, J,
and L are consequently realised as the ASN.1 type SEQUENCE OF of \"ordinary\"
ASN.1 type, e.g. INTEGER. On the other hand, the repeatable IEs with assigned
criticality are realised as the ASN.1 type SEQUENCE OF of an IE object, e.g.
ProtocolIE-Container.
For the corresponding ASN.1 layout, see subclause A.4.
## A.2 Example on a Received EXAMPLE MESSAGE
Assume further more that a received message based on the above tabular format
is according to figure A.1.
{width="6.001388888888889in" height="5.854861111111111in"}
Figure A.1: Example of content of a received SABP message based on the EXAMPLE
MESSAGE
## A.3 Content of Criticality Diagnostics
### A.3.1 Example 1
{width="6.254166666666666in" height="3.96875in"}
Figure A.2: Example of a received SABP message containing a not comprehended
IE
If there is an error within the instance marked as grey in the IE G in the IE
J shown in the figure A.2, this will be reported within the _Information
Element Criticality Diagnostics_ IE within the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE as
follows:
+-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | IE name | Value | Comment | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | IE Criticality | reject | Criticality for IE on | | | | the reported level, | | | | i.e. level 4. | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | IE ID | id-G | IE ID from the reported | | | | level, i.e. level 4. | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | Repetition Number | 11 | Repetition number on | | | | the reported level, | | | | i.e. level 4. | | | | | | | | (Since the IE E (level | | | | 2) is the lowest level | | | | included in the | | | | _Message Structure_ IE | | | | this is the eleventh | | | | occurrence of IE G | | | | within the IE E (level | | | | 2). | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | Type of Error | not understood | | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | Message Structure, | | | | _first repetition_ | | | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | >IE ID | id-B | IE ID from level 1. | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | Message Structure, | | | | _second repetition_ | | | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | >IE ID | id-E | IE ID from the lowest | | | | level above the | | | | reported level, i.e. | | | | level 2. | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | >Repetition Number | 3 | Repetition number from | | | | the lowest level above | | | | the reported level, | | | | i.e. level 2. | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+
Note 2. The IE J on level 3 cannot be included in the _Message Structure_ IE
since they have no criticality of their own.
Note 3. The repetition number of the reported IE indicates the number of
repetitions of IE G received up to the detected erroneous repetition, counting
all occurrences of the IE G below the same instance of the previous level with
assigned criticality (instance 3 of IE E on level 2).
### A.3.2 Example 2
{width="6.254166666666666in" height="3.96875in"}
Figure A.3: Example of a received SABP message containing a not comprehended
IE
If there is an error within the second instance (marked as grey) in the
sequence (IE L in the tabular format) on level 3 below IE K in the structure
shown in the figure A.3, this will be reported within the _Information Element
Criticality Diagnostics_ IE within the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE as
follows:
* * *
IE name Value Comment IE Criticality ignore and notify Criticality for IE on
the reported level, i.e. level 2. IE ID id-K IE ID from the reported level,
i.e. level 2. Repetition Number 3 Repetition number on the reported level,
i.e. level 2. Type of Error not understood  
Message Structure, _first repetition_  
>IE ID id-C IE ID from the lowest level above the reported level, i.e. level
1.
* * *
Note 4. The IE L on level 3 cannot be reported individually included in the
_Message Structure_ IE since it has no criticality of its own.
### A.3.3 Example 3
{width="6.267361111111111in" height="3.96875in"}
Figure A.4: Example of a received SABP message containing a not comprehended
IE
If there is an error within the instance marked as grey in the IE G in the IE
H shown in the figure A.4, this will be reported within the _Information
Element Criticality Diagnostics_ IE within the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE as
follows:
* * *
IE name Value Comment IE Criticality ignore and notify Criticality for IE on
the reported level, i.e. level 4. IE ID id-G IE ID from the reported level,
i.e. level 4. Repetition Number 2 Repetition number on the reported level,
i.e. level 4. Type of Error not understood  
Message Structure, _first repetition_  
>IE ID id-B IE ID from level 1. Message Structure, _second repetition_  
>IE ID id-E IE ID from level 2. >Repetition Number 3 Repetition number from
level 2. Message Structure, _third repetition_  
>IE ID id-H IE ID from the lowest level above the reported level, i.e. level
3. >Repetition Number 1 Repetition number from the lowest level above the
reported level, i.e. level 3.
* * *
Note 5. The repetition number of level 4 indicates the number of repetitions
of IE G received up to the detected erroneous repetition, counted below the
same instance of the previous level with assigned criticality (instance 1 of
IE H on level 3).
### A.3.4 Example 4
{width="6.254166666666666in" height="3.96875in"}
Figure A.5: Example of a received SABP message containing a not comprehended
IE
If there is an error within the instance marked as grey in the IE G in the IE
E shown in the figure A.5, this will be reported within the _Information
Element Criticality Diagnostics_ IE within the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE as
follows:
+-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | IE name | Value | Comment | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | IE Criticality | reject | Criticality for IE on | | | | the reported level, | | | | i.e. level 3. | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | IE ID | id-G | IE ID from the reported | | | | level, i.e. level 3. | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | Repetition Number | 5 | Repetition number on | | | | the reported level, | | | | i.e. level 3. | | | | | | | | (Since the IE E (level | | | | 2) is the lowest level | | | | included in the | | | | _Message Structure_ IE | | | | this is the fifth | | | | occurrence of IE G | | | | within the IE E (level | | | | 2). | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | Type of Error | not understood | | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | Message Structure, | | | | _first repetition_ | | | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | >IE ID | id-B | IE ID from level 1. | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | Message Structure, | | | | _second repetition_ | | | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | >IE ID | id-E | IE ID from the lowest | | | | level above the | | | | reported level, i.e. | | | | level 2. | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | >Repetition Number | 3 | Repetition number from | | | | the lowest level above | | | | the reported level, | | | | i.e. level 2. | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+
Note 6. The repetition number of the reported IE indicates the number of
repetitions of IE G received up to the detected erroneous repetition, counting
all occurrences of the IE G below the same instance of the previous level with
assigned criticality (instance 3 of IE E on level 2).
### A.3.5 Example 5
{width="6.254166666666666in" height="3.96875in"}
Figure A.6: Example of a received SABP message with a missing IE
If the instance marked as grey in the IE G in the IE E shown in the figure
A.6, is missing this will be reported within the _Information Element
Criticality Diagnostics_ IE within the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE as
follows:
+----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | IE name | Value | Comment | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | IE Criticality | reject | Criticality for IE on the | | | | reported level, i.e. level | | | | 3. | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | IE ID | id-G | IE ID from the reported | | | | level, i.e. level 3. | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | Repetition Number | 4 | Repetition number up to | | | | the missing IE on the | | | | reported level, i.e. level | | | | 3. | | | | | | | | (Since the IE E (level 2) | | | | is the lowest level | | | | included in the _Message | | | | Structure_ IE there have | | | | been four occurrences of | | | | IE G within the IE E | | | | (level 2) up to the | | | | missing occurrence. | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | Type of Error | missing | | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | Message Structure, _first | | | | repetition_ | | | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | >IE ID | id-B | IE ID from level 1. | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | Message Structure, _second | | | | repetition_ | | | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | >IE ID | id-E | IE ID from the lowest | | | | level above the reported | | | | level, i.e. level 2. | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | >Repetition Number | 3 | Repetition number from the | | | | lowest level above the | | | | reported level, i.e. level | | | | 2. | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+
Note 7. The repetition number of the reported IE indicates the number of
repetitions of IE G received up to but not including the missing occurrence,
counting all occurrences of the IE G below the same instance of the previous
level with assigned criticality (instance 3 of IE E on level 2).
## A.4 ASN.1 of EXAMPLE MESSAGE
ExampleMessage ::= SEQUENCE {
ProtocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ExampleMessage-IEs}},
ProtocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer {{ExampleMessage-Extensions}}
OPTIONAL,
...
}
ExampleMessage-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-A CRITICALITY reject TYPE A PRESENCE mandatory} \|
{ ID id-B CRITICALITY reject TYPE B PRESENCE mandatory} \|
{ ID id-C CRITICALITY reject TYPE C PRESENCE mandatory} \|
{ ID id-D CRITICALITY reject TYPE D PRESENCE mandatory} ,
...
}
B ::= SEQUENCE {
e E-List,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {B-ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
B-ExtIEs SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
E-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxE)) OF ProtocolIE-Container { {E-IEs} }
E-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-E CRITICALITY ignore TYPE E PRESENCE mandatory },
...
}
E ::= SEQUENCE {
f F-List,
h H-List,
g G-List1,
j J-List,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {E-ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
E-ExtIEs SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
F-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxF)) OF F
F ::= SEQUENCE {
g G-List2 OPTIONAL,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {F-ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
F-ExtIEs SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
G-List2 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..3, ...)) OF ProtocolIE-Container { {G2-IEs} }
G2-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-G CRITICALITY ignore TYPE G PRESENCE mandatory }
...
}
H-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxH)) OF ProtocolIE-Container { {H-IEs} }
H-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-H CRITICALITY ignore TYPE H PRESENCE mandatory },
...
}
H ::= SEQUENCE {
g G-List3 OPTIONAL,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {H-ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
H-ExtIEs SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
G-List3 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..3, ...)) OF ProtocolIE-Container { {G3-IEs} }
G3-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-G CRITICALITY notify TYPE G PRESENCE mandatory },
...
}
G-List1 ::= ProtocolIE-Container { {G1-IEs} }
G1-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-G CRITICALITY reject TYPE G PRESENCE mandatory },
...
}
J-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxJ)) OF J
J ::= SEQUENCE {
g G-List4 OPTIONAL,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {J-ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
J-ExtIEs SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
G-List4 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..3, ...)) OF ProtocolIE-Container { {G4-IEs} }
G4-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-G CRITICALITY reject TYPE G PRESENCE mandatory },
...
}
C ::= SEQUENCE {
k K-List,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {C-ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
C-ExtIEsA -PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
K-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxK)) OF ProtocolIE-Container { {K-IEs} }
K-IEs SABP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-K CRITICALITY notify TYPE K PRESENCE mandatory },
...
}
K ::= SEQUENCE {
l L-List,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {K-ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
K-ExtIEs SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
L-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxL)) OF L
L ::= SEQUENCE {
m M OPTIONAL,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {L-ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
L-ExtIEs SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
ExampleMessage-Extensions SABP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
#