# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
Data scheduling on multi-carrier has been deployed to achieve higher data
rates and load balancing. With the introduction of intra/inter-band features
like DC-HSPA/DB-DC-HSPA, data can be scheduled over two carriers in the same
band or in different bands. Along with the trend that the basic frequency for
MBB coverage is a lower band, e.g. 900MHz, carrier aggregation of two carriers
in a lower band and a higher band (cross band carrier aggregation), would
become a typical deployment scenario for multi-carrier application.
In cross band carrier aggregation, the reliability of scheduling channels as
HS-SCCH or E-AGCH, on the higher and lower frequency carriers is not the same.
Assuming the primary carrier is the lower band, the scheduling channels on the
secondary carrier are not as reliable as the ones on the primary carrier due
to the higher path loss in the higher band.
Assuming scenarios where the secondary carrier operates in the higher
frequency, in order to improve the performance of cross band carrier
aggregation, the reliability of scheduling channels over the secondary carrier
using the higher band should be investigated.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TR 21 912 (V3.1.0): \"Example 2, using fixed text\".
[4] RP-170719: \"Study on scheduling enhancements with carrier aggregation for
UMTS\".
[5] 3GPP TR 25.942 (V13.0.0): \"Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios (Release
13)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.214 (V14.0.0): \"Physical Layer Procedures (FDD) \".
[7] R1-1708890, Final report of RAN1#88bis meeting.
[8] R1-1708739, \"Analysis of the code allocation impact on the primary
carrier for the SI on scheduling enhancements with carrier aggregation for
UMTS\", RAN1#89, Ericsson.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Objectives of the Study on scheduling enhancements with carrier
aggregation for UMTS
The objective of the study item [4] is the following:
\- Identify the reliability issue of scheduling channels over the secondary
(assuming high frequency) carrier for cross band carrier aggregation and
investigate mechanisms to improve the reliability.
\- Study the reliability of scheduling channels over the secondary (assuming
high frequency) carrier, e.g. the coverage difference, detection performance,
under different carrier aggregation scenarios. (RAN1)
\- Investigate potential enhancement schemes to improve the reliability of
scheduling channels over the secondary (assuming high frequency) carrier, and
identify the impacts on current specifications for introducing such
enhancements.(RAN1, RAN2)
\- Study the cost and gain for any proposed change with respect to the
baseline for Dual Band Multicarrier scenarios.
The study shall include considerations to minimize the impact on legacy
terminals.
# 5 Study areas
## 5.1 Scheduling enhancements with carrier aggregation
### 5.1.1 Background and motivation
Data scheduling on multi-carrier has been deployed to achieve higher data
rates and load balancing. With the introduction of intra/inter-band features
like DC-HSPA/DB-DC-HSPA, data can be scheduled over two carriers in the same
band or in different bands. Along with the trend that the basic frequency for
MBB coverage is a lower band, e.g. 900MHz, carrier aggregation of two carriers
in a lower band and a higher band (cross band carrier aggregation), would
become a typical deployment scenario for multi-carrier application.
In cross band carrier aggregation, the reliability of scheduling channels as
HS-SCCH or E-AGCH, on the higher and lower frequency carriers is not the same.
Assuming the primary carrier is the lower band, the scheduling channels on the
secondary carrier are not as reliable as the ones on the primary carrier due
to the higher path loss in the higher band.
Assuming scenarios where the secondary carrier operates in the higher
frequency, in order to improve the performance of cross band carrier
aggregation, the reliability of scheduling channels over the secondary carrier
using the higher band should be investigated.
### 5.1.2 Analysis
**The propagation properties of a carrier aggregation scenario dealing with
the simultaneous usage of a low and a high frequency band represent to be the
core of this study. Aiming at understanding what is the path-loss difference
inherently associated to each of bands, the** path loss model methodology as
described in [5] was estimated. This model is applicable for scenarios in
urban and suburban areas outside the high rise core where the buildings are of
nearly uniform height. The path loss formula is defined in dB as
$L = \text{40}(1 - 4 \times \text{10}^{-
3}\text{Δh}_{b})\text{log}\text{10}(R) -
\text{18}\text{log}\text{10}(\text{Δh}_{b}) + \text{21}\text{log}\text{10}(f)
+ \text{80}$
where:
$R$is the base station -- UE separation in kilometers;
$f$is the carrier frequency, which is 2000 MHz or 900MHz, depending on the
band allocation.
$\text{Δh}_{b}$ is the base station antenna height, in meters, measured from
the average rooftop level. The base station antenna height is fixed at 15
meters above the average rooftop ($\text{Δh}_{b}$= 15 m).
Considering a carrier frequency of 900 MHz and a base station antenna height
of 15 meters, the formula becomes
$L_{\text{900}} = \text{120}\text{.}9\text{\ +\
}\text{37}\text{.}6\text{log}\text{10}(R)$
Considering a carrier frequency of 2000 MHz and a base station antenna height
of 15 meters, the formula turns out to be
$L_{\text{2000}} = \text{128}\text{.}1\text{\ +\ }\text{37}\text{.}6\text{\
Log}\text{10}(R)$
The path-loss considering carrier frequencies at 900MHz and 2GHz were
evaluated up to a distance equal to 500 meters, just as it shown in Figure
5.1.2-1.
{width="5.613888888888889in" height="4.301388888888889in"}
Figure 5.1.2-1: Path-loss and Rx power at 900MHz up to 0.5K
The curve above shows that there is a path-loss difference of around 7.2dB
between a low (900MHz) and a high (2000MHz) frequency band. The above tell us
that there is a natural imbalance between those bands given by the wavelengths
associated to each carrier frequency.
The power used on the downlink channels can be dimensioned as a function of
the coverage that is expected to be obtained on a given carrier. In other
words, during cell planning (i.e., if it is decided to do so) the carrier on
the high frequency band might use more power with respect to the low frequency
carrier aiming at reducing the coverage imbalance present in a carrier
aggregation scenario using different bands.
Moreover, for the scheduling channels (HS-SCCH & E-AGCH) explicitly cited in
the SID [4], the UMTS standard states that the "_power control is under the
control of the node B. It may e.g. follow the power control commands sent by
the UE to the node B or any other power control procedure applied by the node
B_ " [6].
Taking all the above into consideration, it is important to mention that any
potential coverage balancing solution implies being aware of the following
aspects:
\- The carrier on the high frequency band is inherently more expensive since
due to the path-loss the same number of bits would cost more power to send on
the high frequency carrier than on the low frequency carrier.
\- The detection algorithms are band agnostic and it shouldn't be any issue
associated with them, since regardless of the band allocation the UE applies
the same algorithms/techniques for recovering the transmitted signal. The
network is the one responsible of making sure that the UE will receive a
proper received power as to guarantee a certain BLER target. The above is
achieved by means of performing a proper cell planning, along with the usage
of fast power control mechanisms.
\- Any enhancements on a given carrier(e.g., performing repetitions) used to
improve the coverage should be equally applicable on any other carrier
regardless of its operation frequency (e.g., high frequency carrier or low
frequency carrier), still leading to a coverage imbalance due to physics.
The above aspects should be taken into account at the moment of
investigating/developing any proposal associated to this study item.
For DB-DC enhanced scheduling, it has been assumed a scenario where the
secondary carrier is configured on the higher frequency band. In figure
5.1.2-2, U900 is the primary carrier and U2100 is the secondary carrier.
{width="6.93125in" height="3.542361111111111in"}
Figure 5.1.2-2: DB-DC scenario for enhanced scheduling
#### 5.1.2.1 Analysis on code allocation and capacity impact
Assuming a DB-DC HSDPA scenario, the objective of the SI on "on scheduling
enhancements with carrier aggregation for UMTS" aims at improving the
reliability of the HS-SCCHs transmitted on the high frequency carrier for
balancing the coverage of the primary and secondary carrier. On this matter,
two different options were enunciated in RAN1 #88bis final report [7], which
result in different code allocation and capacity impact.
\- Option 1-1: According with this option (penultimate row in Table 5.1.2-1),
the HS-SCCHs hosted in the primary carrier will be shared with the secondary
carrier for any of the HS-DSCH transmissions to be performed on the high
frequency carrier.
\- Option 1-2: According with this option (last row in Table 5.1.2-1), the HS-
SCCHs associated to the secondary carrier will be hosted in the primary
carrier.
In the legacy, there are 4 HS-SCCH channels allocated to a cell so only 4 UE
could be served per TTI. The Table below shows a comparison between the
legacy, and the two existing options. The columns in the table display the
number of HS-SCCHs hosted per carrier, the impact on "UE multiplexing" per
carrier, and the impact on code allocation for the primary carrier.
Table 5.1.2-1: Analysis on code allocation and capacity impact on the options
for enhancing the reliability of the Hs-SCCH when the secondary carrier is on
the high frequency band.
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Primary | S | Max # | Max # | Code | | | Carrier | econdary | of UEs | of UEs | Al | | | | Carrier | Mul | Mul | location | | | | | tiplexed | tiplexed | Impact | | | | | per TTI | per TTI | for the | | | | | | | primary | | | | | Primary | S | carrier | | | | | Carrier | econdary | | | | | | | Carrier | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (High | | | | | | | Fr | | | | | | | equency) | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Legacy | HS | HS | | | - | | DB-DC | -SCCH~1~ | -SCCH~1~ | | | | | HSDPA** | | | | | | | | HS | HS | | | | | | -SCCH~2~ | -SCCH~2~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | HS | HS | | | | | | -SCCH~3~ | -SCCH~3~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | HS | HS | | | | | | -SCCH~4~ | -SCCH~4~ | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Option | HS-SCCH | - | | | None | | 1-1: The | ~1,\ PC\ | | | | | | HS-SCCHs | or\ SC~ | | | | (i.e., | | hosted | | | | | same as | | in the | HS-SCCH | | | | legacy) | | primary | ~2,\ PC\ | | | | | | carrier | or\ SC~ | | | | | | will be | | | | | | | shared | HS-SCCH | | | | | | with the | ~3,\ PC\ | | | | | | s | or\ SC~ | | | | | | econdary | | | | | | | carrier | HS-SCCH | | | | | | for any | ~4,\ PC\ | | | | | | of the | or\ SC~ | | | | | | HS-DSCH | | | | | | | trans | | | | | | | missions | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | erformed | | | | | | | on the | | | | | | | high | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | rrier.** | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Option | HS-SCCH | - | | | Codes | | 1-2: The | ~1,\ PC~ | | | | are | | HS-SCCHs | | | | | taken | | as | HS-SCCH | | | | away | | sociated | ~2,\ PC~ | | | | per | | to the | | | | | manently | | s | HS-SCCH | | | | by the | | econdary | ~3,\ PC~ | | | | extra | | carrier | | | | | HS | | are | HS-SCCH | | | | -SCCH\'s | | hosted | ~4,\ PC~ | | | | hosted | | in the | | | | | on | | primary | HS-SCCH | | | | primary | | ca | ~1,\ SC~ | | | | carrier | | rrier.** | | | | | (Four | | | HS-SCCH | | | | SF128 = | | | ~2,\ SC~ | | | | 0.5 | | | | | | | SF16, | | | HS-SCCH | | | | i.e., | | | ~3,\ SC~ | | | | there is | | | | | | | a 50% | | | HS-SCCH | | | | chance | | | ~4,\ SC~ | | | | of | | | | | | | losing | | | | | | | one HS | | | | | | | code, | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | decrease | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | | th | | | | | | | roughput | | | | | | | that can | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | reached | | | | | | | on the | | | | | | | Primary | | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | | w.r.t. | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | legacy.) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
The Table above show us that option 1-2 impacts the code allocation since
moving 4 HS-SCCH control channels from the secondary to the primary carrier
will lead to have a 50% change of losing one HS-DSCH code, which will decrease
the maximum achievable throughput on the primary carrier with respect to the
legacy.
On the other hand, option 1-1 won't impact the code allocation on the primary
carrier, but it will impact the system's capacity (i.e., less UEs would be
served per carrier per TTI) because the HS-SCCH codes available on the primary
carrier will be used for handling the HS-DSCH transmissions of both the
primary and the secondary carrier.
Option 1-2 may take away one HS-PDSCH code permanently from the primary
carrier, while option 1-1 will impact the number of UEs that can be served per
carrier per TTI with respect to the legacy (when 4 UEs are intended to be
served). Knowing the implications, it is desirable to avoid permanent impacts
as in option 1-2, assuming that with option 1-1 it could be possible to find a
trade-off using a proper scheduling strategy.
After having compared the two options, it can be observed that there are
sensitive trade-offs to be considered in terms of being willing to lose
capacity or impact the code allocation of the primary carrier just for making
the HS-DSCH transmissions on the secondary carrier last a little longer. In
the end, the potential gain that can be obtained over the legacy will
determine if it is worth the price that has be paid for enhancing the
reliability of the HS-SCCHs associated to the HS-DSCH transmissions on the
high frequency band.
### 5.1.3 Solutions
**For enhanced HS-SCCH reception, there are two options.**
**Option 1 is shown in table 5.1.3-1.**
Table 5.1.3-1: Option 1
+-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | | Primary carrier | Secondary carrier | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Physical channels | HS-SCCH(s) for the | HS-PDSCH(s) for the | | | primary carrier | secondary carrier | | | | | | | HS-SCCH(s) for the | | | | secondary carrier | | | | | | | | HS-PDSCH(s) for the | | | | primary carrier | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
Option 2 is shown in table 5.1.3-2.
Table 5.1.3-2: Option 2
+-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | | Primary carrier | Secondary carrier | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Physical channels | HS-SCCH(s) for the | HS-PDSCH(s) for the | | | primary and the | secondary carrier | | | secondary carrier | | | | | | | | HS-PDSCH(s) for the | | | | primary carrier | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
For option 1, there may be two sub-options:
\- Option 1-1: the existing maximum number of HS-SCCH is unchanged. Since it
needs a requirement on HS-SCCH of secondary carrier, it may impact the users
on the primary carrier. Currently, the burst traffic is very popular so this
impact can be minimized by network scheduling decisions, e.g. on the primary
carrier, the network could decide when and how to schedule HS-SCCH(s) for the
secondary carrier.
\- Option 1-2: extend maximum number of HS-SCCH, e.g. the network may allocate
more than 4 HS-SCCHs in one cell, from UE point of view, the requirements on
maximum HS-SCCHs could be unchanged. With this case, HS-SCCHs will be divided
into two parts in one cell, one part is for users on the primary carrier, and
the other part is for HS-SCCH(s) for the secondary carrier.
For any of solutions, the UE needs to distinguish if the HS-SCCH transmitted
from the carrier having better propagation properties refers to the primary or
secondary carrier. The H-RNTIs (one associated to each carrier) known by the
UE can be re-used for this purpose.
From complexity point of view, option 2 is not preferable.
For enhanced HS-SCCH reception solutions, link simulation is considered and
there are the following parameters.
Table 5.1.3-3: Parameters for link simulation
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel model | PA3 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Search | Ideal search | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel estimation | Ideal channel estimation | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Common channel power consumption | 25% | | (the ratio of the power over the | | | total power) | Common channel can include: | | | | | | P-CCPCH, SCH, S-CCPCH, HS-SCCH, | | | P-CPICH | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | HSDPA power consumption (the | 75% | | ratio of the power over the | | | total power) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Maximum HS-SCCH power | 10% | | consumption (the ratio of the | | | power over the total power) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Power allocation between U2100 | shared | | and U900 | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
In order for simplicity, based on the typical DB-DC scenario, A and B are used
for U2100 HS-SCCH coverage and U900 HS-SCCH coverage. It is noted that this
coverage is a general description and it means that the UE may suffer bad HS-
SCCH reception around this area.
{width="6.059027777777778in" height="3.6194444444444445in"}
Figure 5.1.3-1: DB-DC scenario
In link simulation, the path loss difference is 8 dB between U900 and U2100 is
assumed.
For a given Ior/Ioc, a throughput is got based on some inputs, e.g. HS-SCCH
power offset, HS-PDSCH power offset.
For Ior/Ioc on U2100, -10 to 6 by the step 1 is used. It is noted that -10 is
around U900 HS-SCCH coverage and 6 is around U2100 HS-SCCH coverage.
For Ior/Ioc on U900, -2 to 14 by the step 1 is used, and each position is
corresponding to a position on U2100, e.g. -10 on U2100 is related to -2 on
U900.
For area between A and B, there are throughput gains on U2100 (as shownin the
following figure). The reason is that, the HS-SCCH detection performance
becomes better if HS-SCCHs are transmitted on U900 than on U2100.
{width="6.498611111111111in" height="3.998611111111111in"}
Figure 5.1.3-2: Throughput gains on U2100
The following table shows the numbers on throughput gains and they are from
4.8% to 53.5%. It can be observed that the gains are larger if the UE is in
the cell edge and the gains are smaller if the UE is in near the cell centre.
The reasons for the trend are that HS-SCCH detection reliability is improved
on U900 compared with on U2100, and the improvement is more significant if the
UE is far from the cell centre.
Table 5.1.3-4: Relative gains on throughput on U2100
* * *
On U2100 (Ior/Ioc) Throughput gains -10 53.4% -9 46.3% -8 35.0% -7 26.4% -6
22.2% -5 18.9% -4 18.4% -3 12.9% -2 10.5% -1 10.4% 0 8.9% 1 7.0% 2 6.7% 3 5.7%
4 5.3% 5 5.1% 6 4.8%
* * *
On U900, since HS-SCCH and HS-PDSCH allocation is unchanged in baseline and
enhancements scenarios, there is no gain/loss on throughput.
{width="6.496527777777778in" height="3.9784722222222224in"}
Figure 5.1.3-3: Throughput gains on U900
From UE point of view, the throughput gains on U2100 could lead to improvement
on user experience. If the throughputs from both U900 and U2100 are
considered, the total gains may be lower than the numbers in table 5.1.3-2 and
the main reason is that U900 has better coverage than U2100.
However, currently, U900 may carry more user than U2100 because of its larger
coverage, and thus the average UE throughputs on U900 may be lower than the
numbers shown in this link simulation.
### 5.1.4 Conclusions
The relative gain over the secondary carrier after receiving the HS-SCCH from
the low frequency carrier ranges from 4.8% to 53.4%. Nonetheless, the overall
throughput over both carriers is expected to be around 3% after the
enhancement.
Considering the performance improvement on the secondary carrier alone, it may
be possible to use it for transmitting SRBs over the secondary carrier when
the primary carrier is congested (overloaded).
For DB-DC enhanced scheduling, three options are discussed and compared.
Option 2 is not preferable due to its complexity.
Option 1-2 may take away one HS-PDSCH code permanently from the primary
carrier, while option 1-1 will impact the number of UEs that can be served per
carrier per TTI with respect to the legacy (when 4 UEs are intended to be
served). Knowing the implications, it is desirable to avoid permanent impacts
as in option 1-2, assuming that with option 1-1 it could be possible to find a
trade-off using a proper scheduling strategy.
The benefits identified for the feature of this SI also come with sensitive
trade-offs that need to be made by the network.
# 6 Impact on RAN WGs
## 6.1 Impact on RAN1 specifications
**Table 6.1-1 shows a summary on RAN1 impacts due to potential options.**
Table 6.1-1: RAN1 impacts due to options
+--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Option 1-1 | Option 1-2 | Option 2 | +--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Description | On primary | On primary | On primary | | | carrier, there | carrier, there | carrier, | | | are HS-SCCH(s) | are HS-SCCH(s) | HS-SCCH(s) for | | | for the | for the | the primary | | | secondary | secondary | and the | | | carrier and | carrier and | secondary | | | the maximum | the maximum | carrier, and | | | number of | number of | the maximum | | | HS-SCCH is | HS-SCCH is | number of | | | unchanged | extended | HS-SCCH is | | | compared with | | unchanged | | | legacy | | | | | definition | | | +--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | RAN1 impacts | Defines new | Defines new | Defines new | | | channel | channel | channel | | | combinations | combinations | combinations | | | for | for | for | | | DB-DC-HSDPA | DB-DC-HSDPA | DB-DC-HSDPA | | | | | | | | For HS-SCCH, | Defines a new | Defines new | | | UE only | maximum number | HS-SCCH coding | | | monitors the | of HS-SCCH in | format | | | primary | a cell | | | | carrier; for | | For HS-SCCH, | | | HS-PDSCH, UE | For HS-SCCH, | UE only | | | monitors both | UE only | monitors the | | | carriers | monitors the | primary | | | | primary | carrier; for | | | | carrier; for | HS-PDSCH, UE | | | | HS-PDSCH, UE | monitors both | | | | monitors both | carriers | | | | carriers | | +--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
**The UE needs to distinguish if the HS-SCCH transmitted from the carrier
having better propagation properties refers to the primary or secondary
carrier. The H-RNTIs (one associated to each carrier) known by the UE can be
re-used for this purpose.**
## 6.2 Impact on RAN2 specifications
There will be stage-2 impacts and stage-3 capability and RRC signalling
impacts.
## 6.3 Impact on RAN3 specifications
RAN3 specifications, e.g. 3GPP TS 25.433, 3GPP TS 25.435 may be impacted to
introduce the signaling enhancements needed for the support of the RAN1
solutions.
## 6.4 Impact on RAN4 specifications
None.
#