# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The HS-SCCH is a downlink control channel used for scheduling HS-DSCH
transmissions as well as for instructing the UE to perform specific actions
via HS-SCCH orders.
The HS-SCCH is a downlink control channel that is monitored by the UE at all
path-loss conditions within the cell. According to current observations the
HS-SCCH can become limiting and costly in bad radio conditions since the power
invested in the HS-SCCH limits the available power for the HS-PDSCH.
The decoding of the HS-SCCH is performed by testing against all the codewords
that can be carried over the HS-SCCH since any of those codewords could have
been transmitted in downlink. Nonetheless an important aspect to consider is
that under bad radio conditions only a small subset of the codewords carried
over the HS-SCCH can occur in practice.
This is something that can be considered to enhance and simplify the decoding
of the HS-SCCH channel.
# 1 Scope
The present document refers to a study on a simplified HS-SCCH for UMTS, which
is aimed at simplifying the decoding of the HS-SCCH Type 1 for UEs undergoing
bad radio conditions.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP RP-170725: "Study on a simplified HS-SCCH for UMTS"
[3] RP-170725, Study on a simplified HS-SCCH for UMTS
[4] 3GPP TS 25.212, "Multiplexing and channel coding (FDD)", version 13.0.0,
Rel-13.
[5] R1-1705866, "A Background on the structure of the HS-SCCH", RAN1 #88bis,
Ericsson.
[6] R1-1705867, "On a simplified HS-SCCH Type 1 for providing an easier
decoding", RAN1 #88bis, Ericsson.
[7] R1-1705868, "Performance evaluation of a simplified HS-SCCH Type 1", RAN1
#88bis, Ericsson.
[8] R1-1705869, Legacy CQI reports as triggering mechanism for the simplified
HS-SCCH Type 1, RAN1.
[9] 3GPP TR 25 942 V13.0.0, Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios (Release 13)
[10] 3GPP TR 25 707 V14.0.0, Multi-Carrier Enhancements for UMTS (Release 14)
[11] WCDMA FOR UMTS -- HSPA Evolution and LTE, Fifth Edition, Harri Holma and
Antti Toskala.
[12] 3GPP TS 25.214 V14.0.0, Physical layer procedures (FDD)
[13] R1-1706210, 25.cde v0.0.1 (Skeleton) Study on a simplified HS-SCCH for
UMTS", TSG RAN WG1, RAN 1 #88bis.
[14] R1-1708732, "Full performance evaluation (HS-SCCH part I & II) of the
simplified HS-SCCH Type 1 versus the legacy HS-SCCH Type 1", RAN1 #89,
Ericsson.
[15] R1-17008733, "Timing for receiving the simplified HS-SCCH Type 1 when the
legacy CQI reports are used as triggering mechanism", RAN1 #89, Ericsson.
[16] R1-1708735, "On the conclusion for the study item on a simplified HS-SCCH
for UMTS" RAN1 #89, Ericsson.
[17] R2-1705947, "TP on RAN2 impacts of simplified HS-SCCH", RAN2 #98,
Ericsson.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CCS Channelization Code Set
CGI Code Group Indicator
DL Downlink
L1 Layer 1
MS Modulation Scheme
# 4 Objectives
The objectives of this SI are [2]:
\- Study the feasibility and benefits of introducing a simplified version of
the HS-SCCH Type1 where some of the control information bits carried on the
HS-SCCH part I are made deterministic (e.g., CCS bits and MS bit). The
following aspects shall be taken into consideration:
\- The L1 processing chain as described in the current UMTS standard shall be
reused and no changes are allowed (i.e., adding/removing blocks to the L1
processing chain is not allowed).
\- Keep backward compatibility (e.g., re-ordering bits within a slot, or from
one to another slot is not allowed).
\- Study mechanisms for triggering the usage of a simplified version of the
HS-SCCH Type 1, if possible by making use of legacy mechanisms.
_The impact in other working groups, as well as on both UE and network shall
be kept to the minimum._
# 5 Technical background
The HS-SCCH Type 1 is a downlink control channel used for scheduling HS-DSCH
transmissions as well as for instructing the UE to perform specific actions
via HS-SCCH orders.
There are different HS-SCCH types, for example the HS-SCCH type 3 and 4 are
used when the UE is configured in MIMO mode, and MIMO mode with four Antennas,
while the HS-SCCH type 2 known as "HS-SCCH less" is used for not having to
transmit the HS-SCCH associated to the incoming DL data, reason why a blind
detection has to be performed at the UE side.
From all different HS-SCCH types, this study item is intended to simplify the
HS-SCCH Type 1 aiming at facilitating the decoding of this control channel for
UEs undergoing unfavorable radio conditions. In relation to it, below there is
a description of the fields contained on the HS-SCCH control information Type
1 [4]:
\- Structure of the HS-SCCH Type1 (Regular Control Information)
\- Channelization-code-set information (7 bits): _x~ccs,1~, x~ccs,2~, ...,
x~ccs,7~_
\- Modulation scheme information (1 bit): _x~ms,1~_
\- Transport-block size information (6 bits): _x~tbs,1~, x~tbs,2~, ...,
x~tbs,6~_
\- Hybrid-ARQ process information (3 bits): _x~hap,1~, x~hap,2~, x~hap,3~_
\- Redundancy and constellation version (3 bits): _x~rv,1~, x~rv,2~, x~rv,3~_
\- New data indicator (1 bit): _x~nd,1~_
\- UE identity (16 bits): _x~ue,1~, x~ue,2~, ..., x~ue,16~_
The HS-SCCH control information is transmitted in one subframe, which is
composed by three slots. Both, the "Channelization-code-set information" and
"Modulation scheme information" are transmitted in the Slot 0 (known as HS-
SCCH part 1), while the "Transport-block size information", "Hybrid-ARQ
process information"," Redundancy and constellation version", and the "New
data indicator" are conveyed over Slot 1 and Slot 2 (Known as HS-SCCH part 2).
The "UE identity" is masked in both HS-SCCH part 1 and part 2, as part of the
L1 processing chain.
The L1 processing chain of the HS-SCCH Type 1 is depicted below in Figure 1
[4].
Figure 1: Coding chain for HS-SCCH type 1
The description of Figure 1 is as follows. On the left hand side, "_X_ ~UE~"
refers to the encoding version of the UE ID that is masked with the outcome of
the branch dealing with the encoding version of the CCS and MS bits. On the
other hand, the branch on right hand side refers to the encoding process of
the bits carried on the HS-SCCH part 2, which are carried over both slot 1 &
slot 2. At this point it is relevant to mention that regardless of the pursued
simplification of the HS-SCCH Type 1, the Coding chain depicted in Figure 1
shall be kept unmodified, since the SID enunciates that "t**he L1 processing
chain as described in the current UMTS standard shall be reused and no changes
are allowed" [3].**
Once the structure of the HS-SCCH type has been described, a very important
performance aspect that needs to be highlighted is that the detection/decoding
of the Part I (slot 0) needs to be considered as "passed" before proceeding to
decode the Part II (slot 1 & 2) of the HS-SCCH. This means that the detection
and decoding of slot 0 is a key aspect of the performance of the HS-SCCH.
Based on the above, the potential simplification of the HS-SCCH will be
focused on enhancing the slot 0 of the HS-SCCH type I, since the part II (slot
1 & 2) depends on the correct detection/decoding of part I.
# 6 A simplified HS-SCCH
The proposal for simplifying the HS-SCCH type 1 consists in making "known in
advance" the bits corresponding to the "Modulation Scheme" and the "Number of
codes". This because under certain circumstances (e.g., in bad radio
conditions), only certain bit sequences (i.e., codewords) corresponding to one
HS-DSCH code along with a QPSK modulation would be suitable to be used.
## 6.1 CCS and MS bits
### 6.1.1 CCS bits
The Channelization Code Set (CCS) consists of seven bits, and is split in two
parts [4].
\- The first part refers to the "Code Group Indicator" which consists of 3bits
from X~ccs1~ to X~ccs3~.
\- The second part refers to the "Code Offset Indicator" which consists of
4bits, from X~ccs4~ to X~ccs7~.
The binary sequence mapped to the CCS bits depend on the variables "P" and
"O", which _refer to the number of codes to be used by the downlink
transmission and the offset (i.e., position of the codes) in the
channelization code tree._
_For example,_ the Node B has determined that the number of codes of the
incoming downlink transmission is five (P=5), while the offset in the
channelization code tree is 7 (O=7).
Upon knowing the value of "P" and "O", the CCS bits are determined as follows:
\- X~ccs1~, X~ccs2~, X~ccs3~ = min(P-1,15-P) = 100.
\- X~ccs4~, X~ccs5~, X~ccs6~, X~ccs7~ = \|O-1-(Floor(P/8))(15)\| = 0110.
The CCS bits contain the "coordinates" that at the received will allow the UE
to find out the value of "P" and "O" within a "Channelization Code Set matrix"
depicted in Figure 2.
{width="3.9902777777777776in" height="3.0305555555555554in"}
Figure 2: Channelization code set
### 6.1.2 MS bit
**T** he Modulation Scheme (MS) bit is used to inform the receiver whether the
modulation scheme applied on the HS-PDSCH is QPSK or 16-QAM. The
interpretation is as follows [4]:
_x~ms,1~_ = 0 → QPSK
## 6.2 CCS and MS bits on the simplified HS-SCCH
The simplified HS-SCCH is intended to be utilized by UEs that due to bad radio
conditions at most can make use of QPSK with 1 code.
In that case, the "Code Group Indicator" (3bits) is not needed anymore,
neither the "Modulation Scheme" bit. Therefore, the HS-SCCH part I can be
reduced to indicate only the "Code Offset Indicator" field consisting of 4
bits. The above simplification would mean for a UE having to apply decoding
hypothesis only on the first row of the "Channelization Code Set matrix" (see
Figure 3), instead of having to apply decoding hypothesis on the full matrix
(see Figure 2).
{width="4.549305555555556in" height="0.9006944444444445in"}
Figure 3: Reduced channelization code set -- one code only
For this simplified version of the HS-SCCH type 1, X~ms,1~ would be set to 0,
and P would be fixed to 1, leading to X~ccs1~, X~ccs2~, X~ccs3~ = 000, while
the remaining bits Xccs4,Xccs5,Xccs6Xccs7 would be obtained as usual
\|O-1-(Floor(P/8))(15)\|.
## 6.3 Bit sequences on the simplified HS-SCCH
As it was mentioned before, the simplified HS-SCCH type 1 will use only one
channelization code, and the QPSK modulation. This means that only four bits
among all the bits carried on the slot 0 wouldn't be deterministic, which are
the ones used for indicating the Offset in the channelization code tree (i.e.,
the code position in the channelization code tree).
The mapping of the bits carried on the slot 0 of the simplified HS-SCCH Type 1
would be as follows:
_\- x~ccs,1~, x~ccs,2~, x~ccs,3~,_ = 000: Following the legacy, this means
only 1 code is used
_\- x~ccs,4~, x~ccs,5~, x~ccs,6~, x~ccs,7~,_ = 0000->1110: Following the
legacy, the range for the Offset goes from 0 to 14 (meaning offset 1 to 15),
since one code is reserved for common channels. In other words, only 15 out of
16 are usable code positions.
_\- x~ms,1~,_ =0: Following the legacy, this means the QPSK modulation is
used.
The above means that for the CCS+MS 8 bit sequence, half of the bits can be
made deterministic:
\- x~ccs,1~, x~ccs,2~, x~ccs,3~, x~ccs,4~, x~ccs,5~, x~ccs,6~, x~ccs,7~,
x~ms,1~, = 000????0
Therefore, when the simplified HS-SCCH type 1 be in use, it will be known in
advance that there are only 15 data related possible sequences that can be
transmitted, plus the sequence corresponding to an HS-SCCH order.
Table 1: Bits sequence to be transmitted on the slot 0 of a simplified HS-SCCH
* * *
1 00000000 2 00000010 3 00000100 4 00000110 5 00001000 6 00001010 7 00001100 8
00001110 9 00010000 10 00010010 11 00010100 12 00010110 13 00011000 14
00011010 15 00011100 16 11100000
* * *
At the receiver side, this means that the decoding complexity is reduced
(i.e., less hypothesis to be tested) since the unmasked sequence needs to be
correlated only against 16 codewords instead of ≈256 as it occurs in the
legacy, which improves both the BLER and false detection performance.
# 7 Performance evaluation
**Aiming at estimating the potential gains behind providing an easier
decoding, the** proposed simplified version of the HS-SCCH type 1 was compared
against the legacy performance by following the L1 processing chain as
described in the UMTS standard [4].
**The BLER was estimated aiming at quantifying the potential gain, and both
the miss detection and false detection performance were also estimated aiming
at discarding that the potential gains could somehow be limited by the length
of bit the sequence corresponding to the UE ID.**
## 7.1 Miss detection performance
For estimating the "Miss Detection Performance", different Eb/No ratios were
evaluated having the same UE ID at both the transmitter and the receiver,
while the sequences corresponding to the CCS and MS bits were randomly
generated per transmission.
A total of 100000 Transmissions per Eb/No were performed.
ALL the transmissions were intended for the UE, so ideally ALL should have
been decoded. A transmission that DID NOT pass the Correlation Threshold
became a "Miss Detection".
## 7.2 False detection performance
**For** estimating the "False Detection Performance", different Eb/No ratios
were evaluated having a different UE ID at the transmitter and receiver, while
the sequences corresponding to the CCS and MS bits were randomly generated per
transmission.
A total of 100000 Transmissions per Eb/No were performed.
NONE of the transmissions were intended for the UE, so ideally NONE of them
should have been decoded. A transmission that PASSED the Correlation Threshold
became a "False Detection".
## 7.3 Decoder: sequential maximum likelihood correlator
At the receiver, once the symbols distorted by the channel were demodulated,
the recovered bits are unmasked by using the UE ID (Note that when the false
detection performance is being evaluated, the UE ID at the receiver differs
from the one used at the transmitter). The outcome from the unmasked process
is a recovered encoded version of the control information bits.
This recovered encoded version of the information bits is used by a
"Sequential Maximum Likelihood Correlator", which compares such a sequence
against encoded versions of all the possible codewords that can be carried
over the HS-SCCH (256 for the legacy and 16 for the simplified HS-SCCH). The
one providing the highest correlation is the one that is picked up, which is
later on compared against a threshold. This threshold is the one that controls
the false alarm rate and the BLER target.
### 7.3.1 Decoder tuning
The type of decoder used in this evaluations is key for understanding why the
false detection behaves "flat" across different Eb/No ratios, the reason is
that no matter which Eb/No was used, it be will be always possible to find
codewords as output of the "Sequential Maximum Likelihood Correlator"
providing a sufficiently "high correlation", that is why the Threshold has to
be tuned along with the expected the BLER target. On one hand a too high
threshold will decrease the false detection rate, but at the price of
increasing the BLER, so the threshold has to be carefully chosen to fulfil
both a certain BLER target and a given False detection rate.
The tuning performed for this evaluations consisted in finding the value for
the "Threshold" that was able to fulfil both a 1% BLER target, and less than
10% of false detections.
**\- Legacy HS-SCCH Type-1**
Several sets of simulation were performed with different thresholds in order
to find out the operation point fulfilling the above mentioned performance
target. The False Detection and BLER performance for the legacy are shown in
Figure 4 and 5 respectively.
{width="6.735416666666667in" height="1.8173611111111112in"}
Figure 4: Tuning the legacy HS-SCCH type 1 (slot 0) to fulfil the false
detection rate
The shadowed region (i.e., z dimension) refers to the percentage of false
detections found as a function of threshold (x dimension) and the Eb/No (y
dimension) that fulfils the target (i.e., that is below 10%).
{width="6.749305555555556in" height="1.8381944444444445in"}
Figure 5: Tuning the legacy HS-SCCH type 1 (slot 0) to fulfil the BLER target
accounting for the false detection rate
In this case, the values on the "z dimension" that are colored in "green"
refer to the estimated BLER that is below 1%, while shadowed region indicates
which of those values also fulfil the "false detection" target. From this
analysis it was found that a suitable selection for the "Threshold" value is
0.76.
**\- Simplified HS-SCCH Type-1**
The analysis described above was also performed for the simplified HS-SCCH
Type 1. In this case, the False Detection and BLER performance are shown in
Figure 6 and 7 respectively. (At the transmitter side, only 4 bits out of 8
were randomly generated according to the simplified HS-SCCH design, meaning
that at the receiver the modulation scheme bit and the code group indicator
bits are assumed to be known).
{width="7.0465277777777775in" height="1.9055555555555554in"}
Figure 6: Tuning the simplified HS-SCCH type 1 (slot 0) to fulfil the false
detection rate
{width="7.040972222222222in" height="1.9055555555555554in"}
Figure 7: Tuning the simplified HS-SCCH type 1 (slot 0) to fulfil the BLER
target accounting for the false detection rate
In case of the simplified HS-SCCH, it was found that a suitable selection for
the "Threshold" value results to be 0.71 in order to fulfil the same BLER and
False detection targets.
In general, increasing Eb/No (x-axis in the above figures) will reduce the
BLER, while increasing the correlation threshold (y-axis in the above figures)
will decrease the false detection rate. And that is why a trade-off between
BLER and False Detection has to be considered at the moment of selecting the
correlation threshold.
## 7.4 Results
**The set of results presented below refer to the evaluation of the HS-SCCH
part I (slot 0). An** acceptable BLER level for the HS-SCCH is around 1%. On
this matter, it is important to mention that the miss detections contributed
to the BLER performance, since they counted as a block error. Moreover, in
addition to achieve a 1% BLER performance, a false detection rate below 10
percent was also set as a target.
The "Miss Detection", "False Detection", and "BLER" performance was compared
for both legacy and the simplified HS-SCCH Type 1 in figures 8, 9, and 10
respectively.
{width="4.978472222222222in" height="4.021527777777778in"}
Figure 8: Miss Detection performance, legacy HS-SCCH type 1 versus simplified
HS-SCCH type 1.
The "Miss Detections" drop as a function of the Eb/No ratio. The percentage of
"Miss Detections" drops faster when the simplified HS-SCCH is utilized. The
number of "Miss Detections" impacts the BLER, since a transmission that was
missed by the UE was counted as a block error.
{width="5.063194444444444in" height="4.030555555555556in"}
Figure 9: False detection performance, legacy HS-SCCH type 1 versus simplified
HS-SCCH type 1.
The response of the "False Detection" is flat over the Eb/No ratios, and it
can be observed that the percentage of false detection is reduced almost by
half when the simplified HS-SCCH is used.
{width="5.030555555555556in" height="4.051388888888889in"}
Figure 10: BLER performance, legacy HS-SCCH type 1 versus simplified HS-SCCH
type 1.
An acceptable BLER target for the HS-SCCH is around 1% (i.e., 10^-2^ in the
above plot), at that operation point the new proposal provides a gain that is
around 1.3dB with respect to the legacy performance.
In general, and after having seen the results it can be concluded that using a
simplified HS-SCCH would bring the following benefits:
\- Easier decoding (i.e., less decoding hypothesis)
\- Improved BLER
\- Improved Miss detection Performance
\- Improved False detection Performance
\- Power savings in DL (can be translated to coverage improvements)
\- Backward compatibility: The gains will be seen for the Rel-15 UEs, while
legacy UEs can decode the HS-SCCH as usual providing the legacy performance.
\- Minimum standard impact (the HS-SCCH "L1 processing chain" is not modified
at all).
## 7.5 Interaction between HS-SCCH part I & II
### 7.5.1 Transmitter side
The L1 processing chain of the HS-SCCH was described in [3], and it can be
found in [4, 13].
**\- HS-SCCH Part I (Slot 0)**
In addition of conveying the UE ID, the HS-SCCH part I carries 8 control
information bits, seven of them are associated to "Channelization code set"
bits (3bits for the "Code Group Indicator", & 4bits for the "Offset
Indicator"), while only one of them is used to indicate the "Modulation
Scheme" to be used. In the very first step, the 8 input bits described above
are multiplexed to form the variable "X1". In a second step, a zero tail bit
sequence consisting of 8bits is appended to "X1" for producing the format
input needed by the convolutional encoder of rate 1/3. In a third step, the
encoded output ("Z1" in the UMTS standard) is rate matched for keeping an
encoded bit sequence consisting of 40 bits ("R1" in the UMTS standard). In a
forth step, an encoded and rate matched version of the UE ID ("_X_ ~UE~" in
the UMTS standard) is masked with "R1" for producing "S1". Finally, in a fifth
step "S1" which keeps a length of 40bits is mapped to the slot 0.
**\- HS-SCCH Part II (Slot 1 & 2)**
The HS-SCCH part II carries 13 control information bits, and as it will be
explained below the HS-SCCH part II makes use of the 8 control information
bits carried by the HS-SCCH part I and an un-coded version of the UE ID. The
13 bits carried over Slot 1 and 2 (Known as HS-SCCH part 2) are the
"Transport-block size information" (6bits), "Hybrid-ARQ process information"
(3bits)," Redundancy and constellation version" (3bits), and the "New data
indicator" (1bit). In the first step, the 13 input bits described above are
multiplexed to form the variable "X2". In the second step several operations
take place, firstly X1 and X2 are used along with a 16bits generator
polynomial for producing a CRC, secondly the CRC is masked with an un-coded
version of the UE ID, and then the masked version of the CRC is appended to X2
("Y" in the UMTS standard). In a third step a zero tail bit sequence
consisting of 8bits is appended to "Y" for producing the format input needed
by the convolutional encoder of rate 1/3. In a forth step, the encoded output
("Z2" in the UMTS standard) is rate matched for keeping an encoded bit
sequence consisting of 80 bits ("R2" in the UMTS standard). Finally, in a
fifth step "R2" is mapped to both slot 1 and 2.
The above description corresponds to the L1 processing chain as described by
the UMTS standard [4], and it applies exactly the same for the simplified HS-
SCCH. The only difference is that for the simplified HS-SCCH the "Code Group
Indicator" bits and the "Modulation Scheme" bit are made deterministic.
### 7.5.2 Receiver side
At the receiver side, the slot 0 is received first by the UE which leads to
have two possibilities when a transmission has been intended for it.
\- Successful detection: The UE will figure out if the transmission was
intended for it when the unmasking process produces a recovered "encoded
codeword" that provides a very high correlation with respect to one of the
codewords (i.e., within the universe of codewords) that can be carried over
the slot 0. If a high correlation has been found (recall that the "Sequential
Maximum Likelihood Correlator" has been used as decoder [13]), then a
tentative "X1" has been recovered which will be used for attempting to decode
"X2". At this point there are two situations that can still occur:
\- The "CRC test" can result as passed, meaning that both "X1" and "X2" were
recovered correctly.
\- The "CRC test" can result as failed, meaning that "X2" couldn't be
recovered even when "X1" had a high correlation, which results in a block
error. On this matter is important to mention that there is no way in which
"X2" can be decoded correctly if "X1" is wrong, since the "CRC test" will
fail.
\- Miss detection: A UE may miss a transmission when the recovered "encoded
codeword" was not able to provide a sufficiently high correlation as to pass
the threshold of the "Sequential Maximum Likelihood Correlator" in part I.
This automatically translates into a block error since in such a case the
transmission was simply missed, meaning that the HS-SCCH part II cannot even
be attempted to be decoded due that there is no "X1" that can be used in part
II for the "CRC test".
## 7.6 Performance evaluation HS-SCCH part I & II
### 7.6.0 Performance evaluation of the HS-SCCH part II
The figure below shows the BLER for the HS-SCCH part II alone, which confirms
that the HS-SCCH part I is the limiting part (see section 7.4) and will
dominate the overall performance of the HS-SCCH Type-1.
{width="5.177777777777778in" height="4.165972222222222in"}
Figure 10.1: BLER performance HS-SCCH type 1 part II.
For knowing the HS-SCCH part II performance "alone", the part I was assumed to
be genie. That is, for every transmission the bits from part I were always
available (i.e., there were no misdetections), and those bits were always
delivered correctly to part II. So whatever error we could possible observe is
purely from part II.
Note that for a full HS-SCCH evaluation (i.e., when part I & II are
interacting together), a miss detection can occur any time and it is counted
as a block error, and if for a given transmission it was an erroneous bit in
either part I or part II, then a block error was also counted. Because of
that, when part I & II will be put to interact together, the HS-SCCH part I
performance will "push-up" the BLER curve above (see subsection below).
### 7.6.1 Results: full performance evaluation HS-SCCH Part I & II
The performance of the simplified version of the HS-SCCH type 1 was compared
against the legacy HS-SCCH Type 1. The BLER for the entire HS-SCCH (i.e., part
I & II) was estimated aiming at quantifying the potential gains, while both
the miss detection and false detection performance remained the same as the
ones already presented and captured in [13].
Figure 1 shows the total BLER performance for both the legacy and the
simplified HS-SCCH type 1. On this matter, it is important to mention that a
block was considered as correctly received when both "X1" and "X2" resulted in
no errors. In other words, an error in either the 8 recovered bits of part I,
or in any of the 13 recovered bits of part II resulted in a block error.
{width="5.134722222222222in" height="4.084027777777778in"}
Figure 10.2: Total BLER performance (part I & II), legacy HS-SCCH type 1
versus simplified HS-SCCH type 1.
An acceptable BLER target for the HS-SCCH is around 1% (i.e., 10^-2^ in the
above plot), at that operation point the overall performance (i.e., HS-SCCH
part I & II) of the simplified HS-SCCH provides a gain of around 1.3dB with
respect to legacy. The above means that the gains derived from a
simplification performed on the HS-SCCH part I prevail when the overall
performance of the HS-SCCH (i.e., interaction between part I & II) was
evaluated. Moreover, it is worth nothing that beyond 5^-5^ the simplified HS-
SCCH has not more block errors, while for the legacy there are still
observable errors beyond that operation point.
# 8 Triggering mechanism
## 8.1 CQI reports as triggering mechanism
**Aiming at providing** an easier decoding for UEs undergoing bad radio
conditions, a simplified version of the HS-SCCH Type 1 has been proposed,
which at most indicates the usage of QPSK with 1 code for the incoming HS-DSCH
transmission.
Within this context, the legacy CQI reports might be used as the triggering
mechanism for the usage of a simplified version of the HS-SCCH. More
concretely, it has been envisioned that the simplified the HS-SCCH can be
transmitted in DL upon the reception of CQI reports containing low values
(e.g., CQI values from 1 to 6).
This way, a UE that has reported a low CQI value will know that it should
expect the transmission of "a simplified HS-SCCH Type 1" in return, which will
allow the UE performing an easier decoding since it will be known that 4 out 8
bits carried on the HS-SCCH part I are fixed (MS and CGI bits). The above will
allow reducing the universe of codewords from which the UE has to recover the
transmitted bit sequence.
If the legacy CQI reports are intended to be adopted as triggering mechanism
for the simplified HS-SCCH, then the distribution of the CQI reports has to be
analysed, which will allow us to find out what is the probability of observing
low CQI values. This is modelled and analysed in the subsection below.
### 8.1.1 Modelling the CQI distribution
Aiming at modelling the CQI distribution, a Monte Carlo analysis was performed
over a population of UEs which were uniformly distributed within a cell. The
modelling of the CQI distribution is basically composed of four steps, the
uniform distribution of UEs, the estimation of the path-loss and SINR
estimation for each of the UEs, the observed CQI distribution, and a CDF
analysis. The above steps are described one by one below.
#### 8.1.1.1 UEs distribution
In the very first step of the Monte Carlo analysis, a number of UEs were
uniformly distributed within a cell of 500 meters just as it shown in Figure
11.
{width="3.7423611111111112in" height="3.0076388888888888in"}
Figure 11: Distribution of UE within a cell radius of 0.5Km
As can be seen from Figure 11 the users were randomly distributed without
letting any coverage gap, which confirms that the users were uniformly
distributed along the cell's coverage. An important aspect to highlight is
that as matter of fact the center of the cell which is associated to good
coverage is smaller than the remaining geographical area hosting the rest of
the users, which is an aspect to consider at moment of understanding the
reported CQIs.
#### 8.1.1.2 Path-loss estimation
The path loss model in the methodology is described in [9], and is the same as
the one used during the evaluations of Multicarrier Enhancements for UMTS
[10]. This model is applicable for scenarios in urban and suburban areas
outside the high rise core where the buildings are of nearly uniform height.
The path loss formula is defined in dB as
$L = \text{40}(1 - 4 \times \text{10}^{-
3}\text{Δh}_{b})\text{log}\text{10}(R) -
\text{18}\text{log}\text{10}(\text{Δh}_{b}) + \text{21}\text{log}\text{10}(f)
+ \text{80},$ (1)
where:
$R$is the base station -- UE separation in kilometers;
$f$is the carrier frequency, which is 2000 MHz or 900MHz, depending on the
band allocation.
$\text{Δh}_{b}$ is the base station antenna height, in meters, measured from
the average rooftop level. The base station antenna height is fixed at 15
meters above the average rooftop ($\text{Δh}_{b}$= 15 m).
Considering a carrier frequency of 900 MHz and a base station antenna height
of 15 meters, the formula becomes
$L_{\text{900}} = \text{120}\text{.}9\text{\ +\
}\text{37}\text{.}6\text{log}\text{10}(R)$, (2)
Considering a carrier frequency of 2000 MHz and a base station antenna height
of 15 meters, the formula turns out to be
$L_{\text{2000}} = \text{128}\text{.}1\text{\ +\ }\text{37}\text{.}6\text{\
Log}\text{10}(R)$ (3)
The path-loss considering a carrier frequency at 900MHz was evaluated up to
500 meters, later on and following the assumptions in [11], the received power
was computed by assuming a P~tx~ = 31.7dB, G~tx~ = 8dB, and G~rx~ = 0dB. The
result for both the path-loss and the received power is shown in Figure 12.
{width="3.99375in" height="3.1597222222222223in"}
Figure 12: Path-loss and Rx Power at 900MHz up to 0.5Km
#### 8.1.1.3 Observed CQI distribution
Once the UEs were randomly distributed as depicted in Figure 11, the path-loss
and received power was computed for each of them as function of their
geographical location within the cell. Moreover, a source of interference was
added aiming at obtaining SIRN estimates. On this matter, the geometry is used
for controlling the amount of observed interference, which typically ranges
from -3dB to 6dB. An average geometry of 4dB was used for not having a so
severe interference, otherwise even more low CQI values would be observed.
{width="3.801388888888889in" height="3.0180555555555557in"}
Figure 13: CQI report distribution
The histogram above counts with exactly 30 bins matching all the possible CQI
reports that can be transmitted by a UE. On this matter, and according with
the UMTS standard, the CQI values ranging from 1 to 6 are the ones associated
with the usage of the QPSK modulation along with 1 code only (see CQI mapping
Tables in [12]), which is aligned with the usability of a simplified HS-SSCH.
In the following subsection shows the cumulative distribution function (CDF)
of the CQI distribution depicted above.
#### 8.1.1.4 PDF analysis
The CDF depicted below shows that there is a probability of around 57% of
getting CQI values below or equal to 6.
{width="3.6881944444444446in" height="3.0145833333333334in"}
Figure 14: CDF of the CQI distribution
The simplified HS-SCCH is intended to improve the decoding performance of such
a population of UEs that are undergoing bad radio conditions, and therefore
are reporting low CQI values. In case the reported CQI obtained at the Node B
won't be the same as the one transmitted by the UE the following cases arise:
\- UE transmits a CQI greater than 6 but the Node B decodes less than or equal
to 6: The performance of this enhancement will be the same as the legacy.
\- UE transmits a CQI less or equal to 6 but the Node B decodes a CQI greater
than 6: In such a scenario the UE would expect a simplified HS-SCCH and it
would fail to decode the received HS-SCCH reliably. However an intelligent UE
can attempt a legacy HS-SCCH Type 1 decoding.
## 8.2 Timing between triggering and reception of the simplified HS-SCCH
Before starting the discussion on the time relation between the triggering and
reception of a simplified HS-SCCH transmission (1 code along with QPSK), it is
worth to recall that today there is not a strict time relation between a
reported CQI and the HS-DSCH scheduling. The above because the network uses
the reported CQIs for trying to determine what would be the most appropriate
format for the next HS-DSCH transmission, but is up to the network to decide
when to schedule a UE (i.e., the subframe in which the HS-SCCH would be
received).
In case of using the simplified HS-SCCH type 1, once a low CQI value has been
reported, it would be desirable for the UE knowing when a HS-SCCH transmission
associated with 1 code and QPSK is supposed to be received, so it can execute
less decoding hypothesis (i.e., over small universe of codewords) at the right
time.
The potential solutions described below have taken into account the initial
timing related discussions that took place in RAN1 #88bis.
**\- Fixed timing**
The timing between a low CQI report and the reception of a HS-SCCH indicating
the usage of 1 code along with QPSK could be just similar as the one used by
the power saving mechanism in CELL_FACH standardized in Rel-14 [12], which
makes use of a fixed timing equal to 8ms (4 subframes) between the reception
of an early "incoming DL data indication" and the actual reception of HS-DSCH.
Based on the above, the triggering mechanism of the simplified HS-SCCH could
be as follows: Once a UE has reported a low CQI value over the HS-DPCCH, the
UE may assume that a HS-SCCH Type 1 transmission carrying control information
corresponding to 1 code and QPSK would be transmitted in the first available
HS-SCCH subframe once four sub-frames have passed after the end of the sub-
frame where the HS-DPCCH was transmitted. This is illustrated in the figure 15
below.
{width="6.613888888888889in" height="2.34375in"}
Figure 15: Fixed timing between the transmission of a low CQI report and the
reception of the simplified HS-SCCH type 1.
According with the above scheme, the timing between the triggering and the
reception of a HS-SCCH carrying CGI and MS bits corresponding to 1 code and
QPSK will be known by the UE, so it can perform a decoding process by
considering only the small subset of codewords that can actually occur.
**\- Timing signalled from higher layers**
The timing between a low CQI report and the reception of a HS-SCCH indicating
the usage of 1 code along with QPSK could be signalled by higher layers. That
is, instead of using a fixed time reference of 8ms as described in bullet
above, a set of timing reference values could be considered.
In this case, once a UE has reported a low CQI value over the HS-DPCCH, the UE
may assume that a HS-SCCH Type 1 transmission carrying control information
corresponding to 1 code and QPSK would be transmitted in the first available
HS-SCCH subframe once X sub-frames have passed after the end of the sub-frame
where the HS-DPCCH was transmitted. The variable X could consist of a set of
values (e.g., 8ms and 9ms), keeping the mechanism just as illustrated in
Figure 15.
### 8.2.1 Non scheduling
If for some reason (e.g., because of different priorities), the network were
not able to schedule the UE according with the given timing (i.e., either
fixed or signalled from higher layers), then the UE simply has to take into
account the CQIs that it has subsequently reported in order to perform a
decoding process that considers either the full set of codewords (as in
legacy) or only a small subset of them.
The switching between the subset and the full set of codewords cannot be any
different than handling one of the potential misuse cases already addressed in
RAN1 #88bis:
\- UE transmits a CQI less or equal to 6 but the Node B decodes a CQI greater
than 6: In such a scenario the UE would expect a simplified HS-SCCH and it
would fail to decode the received HS-SCCH reliably. However an intelligent UE
can attempt a legacy HS-SCCH Type 1 decoding.
Moreover, it is important to recall that in any case a legacy UE is prepared
to decode any time the full set of codewords, due that it can suddenly be
scheduled by the NodeB.
### 8.2.2 Channel variations
In relation to the proposed timing values, there might be a question on
whether receiving a simplified HS-SCCH transmission (1 code along with QPSK)
is still appropriate due to the amount of time that has passed between the
reported CQI and the reception of the HS-DSCH transmission. In order to answer
that question we can refer to the coherence time, which is an indicator of how
fast the channel changes. On this matter, by considering a channel change as
the point in time (i.e., coherence time) where a Bessel function used for
characterizing the wireless channel shows a correlation degree minor than 50%
we can figure out for how long time the channel will remain the same as a
function of the UE's speed. For example, for a UE moving at 3Km/h the
coherence time is 45ms, while for a UE moving as fast as 15Km/h the coherence
time is approximately 9ms. This means that the suggested timing values (e.g.,
8ms) are rather appropriate, especially after recalling that an HS service is
suitable to use for UEs moving at low speeds.
### 8.2.3 Capability reporting
In this Section we discuss potential impact to network implementation for the
identified solution. UE capability reporting is needed to enable network to
save power consumption on simplified HS-SCCH. If the UE may use an advanced
receiver to enhance the HS-SCCH detection performance, it would be good for
the network to know that the UE is capable of doing it. The NodeB can either
extend the coverage of HS-SCCH or can trade-off for power savings. If network
knows that the target UE receiving HS-SCCH is capable of the 'known in
advance' reception, network can choose a smaller power on HS-SCCH when
choosing the "known in advance" sub-set within the original set of codewords,
saving downlink power resource. Otherwise, it is only possible to enhance HS-
SCCH reliability or coverage, but not saving HS-SCCH transmit power. Hence,
network knowing UE's capability for advanced HS-SCCH part 1 reception can save
HS-SCCH part 1 DL transmit power when the "known in advance" subset of the HS-
SCCH part 1 codewords was selected.
# 9 Impact on RAN WGs
This section provides a high level description of the foreseen specification
impacts on different Working Groups derived from the study on a simplified HS-
SCCH for UMTS.
## 9.1 Impact on RAN1 specifications
The simplified HS-SCCH Type 1 can be shortly described in the **3GPP TS
25.212** , since the structure, coding and control information fields of the
HS-SCCH Type 1 are captured in this technical specification.
The triggering mechanism of the simplified HS-SCCH, which is based on the
legacy CQI reports can be shortly described in the **3GPP TS 25.214** since
this technical specification contains the physical layer procedures followed
by the legacy CQI reports.
## 9.2 Impact on RAN2 specifications
RAN2 specifications, e.g. **3GPP TS 25.300, 3GPP TS 25.306, 3GPP TS 25.308,
3GPP TS 25.331** may be impacted to introduce the signalling enhancements
needed for the support of the RAN1 solutions.
## 9.3 Impact on RAN3 specifications
RAN3 specifications, e.g. **3GPP TS 25.433, 3GPP TS 25.435** may be impacted
to introduce the signalling enhancements needed for the support of the RAN1
solutions.
## 9.4 Impact on RAN4 specifications
None.
# 10 Conclusions
The scenario for this SI is when the UE is in bad radio conditions, and only
certain bit sequences (i.e., codewords) corresponding to one HS-DSCH code
along with a QPSK modulation would be suitable to use.
The identified solution for simplified HS-SCCH type 1 consists in making
"known in advance" the bits corresponding to the "Modulation Scheme" and the
"Number of codes" (code group indicator bits).
The triggering mechanism for the UE to use the simplified HS-SCCH is based on
the transmitted legacy CQI reports.
In general, and after having seen the results it can be concluded that using a
simplified HS-SCCH would bring the following benefits:
\- Easier decoding (i.e., less decoding hypothesis)
\- Improved BLER
\- Improved Miss detection Performance
\- Improved False detection Performance
\- Power savings in DL (can be translated to coverage improvements)
\- Backward compatibility: The gains will be seen for the Rel-15 UEs, while
legacy UEs can decode the HS-SCCH as usual providing the legacy performance.
Minimum standard impact (the HS-SCCH "L1 processing chain" is not modified at
all).
An acceptable BLER target for the HS-SCCH is around 1%. At that operation
point the overall performance (i.e., HS-SCCH part I & II) of the simplified
HS-SCCH provides a gain of around 1.3dB with respect to legacy.
#