# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The purpose of the following document is to describe planning guidelines and
system scenarios for UTRA repeaters. In addition it also contains simulations
and analysis of the usage of repeaters in UMTS networks.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 25.942
[2] R4-030365
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply, unless otherwise stated:
{width="5.216666666666667in" height="2.5368055555555555in"}
Figure 3.1
ACRR~RepA~ Adjacent Channel Rejection Ratio for repeater A.
ACG~RepA~ Adjacent Channel Gain for repeater A.
CL~BSA-UEA~ Coupling Loss between Base Station A and the User Equipment A.
CL~RepA-UEA~ Coupling Loss between Repeater A and User Equipment A.
d~RepA~ Group delay of repeater A.
EDoCL~BSA-RepA~ Effective Donor Coupling Loss between the donor Base Station A
and the Repeater A.
G~RepA~ Set gain of Repeater A.
Gmax~RepA~ The maximum Gain possible to set of Repeater A.
M~RepA~ Noise Margin for repeater A.
NF~RepA~ Noise Figure of repeater A.
P~repA~ Output power of repeater A.
Pmax~RepA~ Maximum output power of repeater A.
Pmax~BSA~ Maximum output power of base station A
Figure 3.2
CL~BSB-UEA~ Coupling Loss between Base station B and the User equipment A.
CL~RepA-UEB~ Coupling Loss between Repeater A and User equipment B.
CL~BSB-RepA~ Coupling Loss between Bas station B and Repeater A.
CL~BSB-UEB~ Coupling Loss between base station B and User equipment B.
SsIR Signal to self Interference Ratio. (Described below)
## 3.2 Symbols
(void)
## 3.3 Abbreviations
(void)
# 4 System Impacts of Repeaters
## 4.1 Error Vector Magnitude (EVM)
The introduction of a repeater has an impact in the EVM of the system. The
basic effect is reflected in a system noise rise, which can be calculated from
the EVM value the received signal exhibits. The formula is
Noise rise = 10 log(1 + EVM²)
In the scenario of a Repeater amplifying the signal the EVM of the signal is
calculated according to the following formula for uncorrelated processes:
(EVM_total)² = (EVM_NodeB)² + (EVM_Repeater)²
Taking the specified value of 17,5 % for both the Node B (as well as for the
UE) and the Repeater result in a total EVM of 24,7 %. Calculating the noise
rise for the Repeater scenario gives a value of 0,26 dB in the area of the
repeater\'s coverage. This compares to a noise rise in a scenario without
Repeater of 0,13 dB. The difference between the two numbers is the worst-case
closed loop power rise in an otherwise perfect system that would occur with a
Repeater being used.
## 4.2 Peak Code Domain Error (PCDE)
In the specification of the Peak Code Domain Error value of the Repeater -35
dB is used. The number for the Node B is -33dB. If we assume the processes in
the Repeater that lead to the PCDE being independent of the equivalent process
in the Node B we can assume that they can be treated as noise. In this case
the resulting value for PCDE is calculated from the linear addition of the two
signals that will lead to -31 dB. This is a 2 dB degradation to the value of
the Node B. For the repeated cell the degradation might be negligible. In case
of a neighbour cell the might be affected to some extend. Presumably the soft
handover gain will be reduced by the tenth of a dB.
## 4.3 Frequency error
The effect of the additional frequency error will be a reduction of the
maximum speed. In the repeater core specification the minimum requirement on
frequency stability is 0,01 ppm. Hence, with the 0,05 ppm minimum requirement
for the base station frequency stability the resulting \"worst case\" for a
signal that have been amplified by the repeater is 0,06 ppm.
## 4.4 Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio (ACLR)
With regard to the mentioned ACLR we have to investigate the behaviour of the
Repeater. For this reason we use the model shown in the following Figure 4.1:
Figure 4.1: Simplified Repeater model.
The Repeater in its basic function is bi-directional amplifier of RF signals
from Base Stations in the downlink path and from Universal Equipments (UE) as
mobile stations in the uplink path. The operating bands in which the Repeater
amplifies is determined by the IF filter in its bandwidth and by the duplexer
filter in its frequency range for operational configuration. In our discussion
we will use the parameters defined in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1: Parameters of the Repeater model.
* * *
Parameter Description Unit Assumed value Comment G Repeater gain dB 90 dB UL
and Dl gain should be the same for a balanced link. Pout_DL_max maximum
Repeater average output power measured with WCDMA signal according to model 1
of TS25.141. dBm 30 dBm DL value Pout_UL_max maximum Repeater average output
power measured with WCDMA signal according to model 1 of TS25.141. dBm 12 dBm
UL value NF Repeater Noise Figure dB 5 dB valid for UL and DL N_therm (30 kHz)
Thermal Noise Power density in a Bandwidth of 30 kHz dBm / 30 kHz -129 dBm /
30kHz -174 dBm/Hz (at 25 °C) + 45 dB S (30 kHz) WCDMA Signal Power Density dBm
/ 30 kHz Pout - 21 dB the factor of 21 dB is the relation of channel bandwidth
to 30 kHz
* * *
The Repeater output noise density can be calculated according to the formula:
N_Rep (30kHz) = N_therm (30kHz) +NF + G = -34 dBm/30 kHz .
Considering the output of the Repeater in the Downlink path we will find an
average power 30 dBm in the WCDMA channel. This is resulting in a signal
density of
S_Downlink = +9 dBm/30 kHz.
This leads to a signal-to-noise ratio of the Downlink of:
S / N_Downlink = 43 dB.
The Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio (ACLR) as defined for BS is stating -45 dB
for the first adjacent channel and -50 dB for the second adjacent channel.
This situation is illustrated in Figure 4.2.
In the Repeater case the resulting output frequency spectrum is shown below.
Fig. 4.2: Repeater output frequency spectrum.
It is obvious that the ACLR cannot be measured in the Repeater case due to the
fact that the this signal is below the amplifier thermal noise of the Repeater
amplifier chain.
This even get worse when the Uplink is considered. As in this path the maximum
average value of the output power is reduced to 12 dBm resulting in a signal
power density of S = -9dBm / 30 kHz, the signal-to-noise ratio will be even
smaller:
S / N_Uplink = -9 dBm / 30 kHz - (-43 dBm / 30 kHz) = 34 dB.
This collision is the reason why the ACLR requirement as it is written for the
BS equipment cannot be met with a Repeater. The ACLR measurement will be
limited by the thermal noise of the Repeater amplifier chain.
Spectral components (noise, ACP, intermodulation products, spurious signals,
...) falling outside the operating band are fully addressed in the TS 25.106
subclause 9.
## 4.5 Time Delay
Using common narrow band filter technologies (SAW) the IF-filtering process
introduces a time delay of about 5-6 μs to the signal. This puts a requirement
on the length of the receiver's search window. It is, however, believed that
the channel models now specified in TS 25.104 are sufficient for guaranteeing
the receiver's performance in an area covered by both a repeater and a base
station.
Figure 4.3 illustrates a case where the UE receives multipath signals, both
from the repeater and from the BS. Here, the repeater will introduce
artificial multipaths. This could possibly reduce the effects from fading, but
also increase the number of paths that are needed to capture a certain
percentage of the energy is increased and it is therefore important to have a
sufficient amount of RAKE fingers in the receiver.
However, traditionally the repeater is deployed to cover a smaller area
compared to the BS and the number of resolvable multipaths could therefore be
believed to lower compare to that of macrocellular deployment.
Fig. 4.3: Illustration of the excess multipaths that are introduced by the
repeater in a scenario where the UE is receiving the signal, from both the BS
and the repeater.
## 4.6 Location Services (LCS)
The co-existence between repeaters and location services (LCS) is studied in
this clause. Three methods for location services are currently specified in TS
25.305: OTDOA, Cell coverage based positioning and Network assisted GPS.
### 4.6.1 OTDOA
The OTDOA method is based on measurements of the UTRA pilot signal (CPICH)
made by the UE and the Location Measurement Unit (LMU). The position of the UE
is estimated by using the observed time difference of arrival (OTDOA) from
three, or more, base stations.
Figure 4.4 is an illustration of a network using repeaters. In this case the
signal path from BS4 to the UE can be either the direct path, with a time
delay of τ4, or the path through the repeater, with a time delay of τRB+τd+τR,
where τd is introduced by the repeater. This extra time delay introduces an
ambiguity when performing the location estimation.
Fig. 4.4: Illustration of the effect of a repeater installation in a network
using OTDOA based LCS.
To avoid this ambiguity different mechanisms can be implemented:
1\. For small cells one can exclude one of the signals if it has to long path
delay (i.e. passed through a repeater). Hence, for cells smaller than 1500 m
(corresponding to 5 μs) it is detectable, whether or not, a repeater has
transmitted the signal.
2\. If the UE detects more than three sites, as the case is in Figure 4.4, the
measurement of the time delay from BS 3 can be excluded, based on a too large
relative difference to the time delays from BS 1-3. The probability of
detecting three sites is much lower compared to that of detecting four or five
sites. This result holds true for both the urban and the suburban environment,
when the UE uses 16 ideal periods.
### 4.6.2 Cell coverage based positioning method
The only impact is that the cells become larger using repeaters and that this
method thereby has less accuracy compared to a smaller cell. Other than that
the repeater does not affect this LCS method.
### 4.6.3 Network assisted GPS methods
The UTRA network can assist the UE GPS receiver in several ways. E.g. by
providing a frequency reference, since UTRAN has a better frequency stability
compared to GPS (0,05 ppm frequency error compared to 20 ppm). UTRAN can also
provide the UE with a timing reference to reduce the UE GPS search time and
improve the accuracy.
If a repeater is deployed in the network this will lead to about 5 μs extra
delay. This extra delay is not of the extent that it will affect the
performance of GPS assisted method. It is however important that the frequency
stability of UTRAN is maintained in the repeater.
## 4.7 Automatic Gain Control (AGC)
Repeaters use a function called Automatic Gain Control (AGC) to adjust the
gain so that self-oscillation is avoided. The gain of the repeater shall be
adjusted so that there is a margin to the port isolation between the up- and
down-link directions as described in the sub-clause Gain Settings.
As a consequence the AGC is not intended to the constantly adjust the gain
during the normal mode of operation. It shall be seen as a fall back to
prevent self-oscillation if, for some reason, the isolation between the ports
is reduced compared to the isolation measured during the deployment or an
increase in input power to a level larger than the input level creating the
maximum output power.
The AGC is also slow in comparison to the fast power control (the range of
several microseconds) in order not to interfere with the system performance.
The AGC should further adjust the gain in both the up and downlink in order to
make the repeater a transparent system element.
## 4.8 Adjacent Channel Rejection Ratio (ACRR)
The secondary impact on the adjacent channel operator as described in section
5.2.2 gives rise to a requirement of an explicit requirement on ACRR in the
requirement specification. After simulations described in section 6.5 the
requirements are introduced in the repeater specifications.
# 5 Planning with Repeaters
## 5.1 Sole System
### 5.1.1 Antenna Isolation
Antenna isolation is an essential issue for the performance of a repeater.
As a repeater only amplifies a received signal, it can act as an oscillator
under certain circumstances. The feedback path in this amplifier system are
the two antennas: coverage antenna and donor antenna.
In order to prevent oscillation of the system, the feedback must be lower than
the amplifier gain. This loss in the feedback path is called the _Antenna
Isolation_. It must be 15 dB higher than the repeater gain to guarantee an
adequate protection against self-oscillation of the repeater.
Several factors have influence on the antenna isolation:
**1\. Antenna pattern (Horizontal and vertical)**
The optimum is a combination of donor and coverage antennas that are mounted
the way that there is a null in the antenna pattern in the direction pointing
towards the other antenna. A null means minimum antenna gain in the specified
direction.
As both antennas are usually mounted in opposite directions, it is useful to
chose both donor and coverage antenna types that have a high front-to-back
ratio.
**2\. Vertical separation**
Typical antennas that are used for repeater sites have a narrower aperture in
the vertical antenna pattern, the vertical distance of the antenna influences
the isolation of the antenna system. In a typical configuration, when both
antennas are mounted on a pole, there is a null in the antenna pattern
pointing vertically up and down from the antenna's feeding point. If there is
a horizontal separation between the antennas, additional lobes in the vertical
antenna pattern have to be taken into account.
**3\. Environment of both antennas**
The environment of the antennas is a very important factor. The reflection and
attenuation properties of all materials near the antenna can influence the
antenna isolation drastically.
• The waves transmitted by antennas are reflected by surfaces, depending on
the materials. If there is a reflection from a building towards the pole with
the mounted antennas, this can decrease the antenna isolation by more than 10
dB.
• The material of the tower itself has also an effect on the isolation: If
both antennas are mounted on a tower made of concrete, this improves the
antenna isolation, as signals are attenuated and reflected by the material of
the tower. A steel grid tower however might not increase antenna isolation
particularly, as the distances between the single elements might be bigger
than half a wavelength, which means that radiated power can pass the tower
almost unattenuated. In this case, antenna isolation is more dependent on the
antenna patterns.
• Shielding grids mounted near the antennas have also an effect on the
isolation. Generally, isolation can be improved using a shielding grid by
approximately 5 dB. This depends on the shape of the shielding grid. Grids
that are shaped according to the antenna outlook are better than simple ones.
### 5.1.2 Coupling loss measurements
The links of most the interest are the coupling loss between the Node B (Base
Station = BS) and the repeater and at the repeater between the donor- and the
coverage antenna.
**1\. Coupling loss between the Node B and the repeater.**
1) Connect a Measurement User Equipment to the donor antenna and measure the
incoming pilot signal.
2) The coupling loss between Node B and the repeater is then calculated as
CL = BS Pilot Level output power [dBm] - Measured input power at the
Measurement User Equipment [dBm].
**2\. Coupling loss at the repeater between the donor- and the coverage
antenna.**
1) Connect the input of a spectrum analyser to the donor antenna cable
2) Set up the instrument for the desired UMTS band.
3) Connect a signal generator to the coverage antenna cable of the repeater.
4) Set up the analyser for the highest possible sensitivity (more than
-100dBm) for 0 dBm source-power.
5) Set the analyser to \"max-hold\" if you do not use a tracking generator.
6) Set the output-power of the generator to 0 dBm.
7) Start sweeping
8) The minimum isolation is the highest value of the curve (except carriers
transmitted by surrounding BS). (Note the highest value for further use.)
9) Change measurement-ports to check for the opposite direction by repeating
the measurement procedure. (Note the worst value of isolation for further
use.)
### 5.1.3 Gain Settings
Considering the repeater application in an isolated UMTS system, the basic
rule as described above applies for both up-link and down-link:
G~repA~ ≤ Repeater port isolation - 15 dB
For the down-link the following rule of thumb ensures that the repeater AGC
(Automatic Gain Control) is not activated during normal traffic conditions.
G ≤ Pmax~RepA~ + EDoCL~BSA-RepA~ - Pmax~BSA~
In cell planning, the repeater can be modelled as a base station with transmit
power
P~RepA~ = P~BSA~ - EDoCL~BSA-RepA~ + G~RepA~ (dBm)
For the up-link, the repeater has a transferred sensitivity;
Sensitivity~RepA~ = Sensitivity~BSA~ - (EDoCL~BSA-RepA~ - G~RepA~) (dBm)
The transferred sensitivity is controlled by the setting the repeater gain in
relation to the effective donor coupling loss. It is recommended that the
transferred sensitivity is approximately (5 to 10) + Nf~repA~ dB less than the
donor base station sensitivity, in order not to desensitise the base station.
This rule can be adjusted in the case where the repeater coverage area is also
the main coverage area of the base station. The term \"noise margin\", M, is
introduced to describe the difference between the base station sensitivity and
the transferred repeater sensitivity in the installation.
M~RepA~ = EDoCL~BSA-RepA~ - G~RepA~ (dB)
The gain should be set so that the link balance through the repeater path is
the same as the link balance in the donor base station. The loss of diversity
gain may here be considered.
### 5.1.4 Delay
The UTRA BS and UEs can handle a 20 μs time delay between two paths (c.f. TS
25.101 and TS 25.104). The repeater introduces a time delay of 5-6 μs. The
signal paths introduced through the repeater will be longer than the direct
path, both due to the extra travelling distance required for the signal
(approximately 5 µs per 1.5 km) and due to the group delay in the repeater
itself.
For outdoor repeater coverage, where the areas can be substantial, it is a
rule of thumb that the repeater site should be placed between the repeater
service area and the donor base station.
For applications with donor signal provided via optical fibre, it should be
noted that the speed of light in fibres is approximately 2/3 of that in
vacuum, or 5 µs per km. This may introduce extra delay to be considered when
designing both indoor and outdoor repeater applications.
## 5.2 Co-existence with UTRA FDD
### 5.2.1 Out of band gain
In the UTRA repeater core specification TS 25.106 the out of band requirement
have been derived assuming an in-band gain of 90 dB. The rationale for this
value was the common understanding that it represents a maximum gain value for
UTRA repeaters and that UTRA repeaters with higher value are very unlikely. In
most application the repeater gain may be adjusted to lower values.
With a reduction of the in-band gain value, compared to the assumed 90 dB, the
out of band gain values, which decides the adjacent channel gain (ACG) will
also be reduced compared to the values occurring in the specification TS
25.106.
### 5.2.2 Isolation
Taking other operator systems into concern, it is the responsibility of the
repeater operator to make sure that the repeater installation does not
significantly alter the cellular design of the uncoordinated operator.
In the case where a repeater is installed in the vicinity of a base station
operating on the adjacent channel the required isolation between base station
B and the repeater's donor port will depend on the up-link gain. It can be
seen that the signal from UEB to BSB can take the two paths \"directly\" or
\"via repeater A\", both of which comprise multi-paths. It is here assumed
that the path through the repeater will be badly distorted, since the delay
spread in the adjacent carrier frequencies are bound to be substantial. As a
consequence, the signal travelled through the repeater is considered to be
interference only. However, this interference will have a fixed relation to
the signal power from UEB arriving in BSB since it follows the power control
applied from BSB on UEB.
The term \"self-interference\", is here introduced to describe this
phenomenon. SsIR (Signal to self Interference Ratio) is the relation between
the power level of the distorted UEB signal from the repeater A path and the
undistorted signal arriving direct from the UE, taken on the BSB receiver
terminal. The effect of putting the SsIR to 0 dB is that a UEB with this SsIR
occupies twice the air interface capacity from BSB as required from a UE with
infinite SsIR utilising the same service.
Now, in order to ensure the stability of system B a proper SsIR must be set,
resulting in a minimum requirement for the isolation between the repeater A
donor port and the base station B receive port:
CL~BSB-RepA~ ≥ SsIR + ACG~RepA~ - CLmin~RepA-UEA~ + CL~BSB-UEB~ (dB)
It is here assumed that the UE of system A and the UE if system B can enter
the same areas and hence
CL~RepA-UEA~ = CL~RepA-UEB~.
The CLmin~RepA-UEA~ is the minimum Coupling loss that can be experienced
between the repeater and the UE. It is assumed that the coupling loss between
the repeater and an UE in the repeater service area will vary more than the
coupling loss between BSB and the same UE. CL~BSB-UEB~ is taken where
CLmin~RepA-UEA~ occurs.
The ACG~RepA~ can be calculated as the gain set in repeater A minus the
repeater's Adjacent Channel Rejection Ratio (ACRR). The ACRR of the repeater
can be estimated as the maximum gain that can be set in the repeater minus the
adjacent channel maximum gain as stated in TS. 25.106,section 8.1, unless
otherwise stated by the repeater manufacturer. E.g. the gain of 90 dB assumed
as Gmax~repA~ renders the ACRR~repA~ of 37 dB according to TS 25.106.
The above described formulae for CL~BSB-RepA~ do not take into account the
absolute power and spurious emission requirements put forward in TS 25.106,
section 9.1. The required coupling losses between the repeater\'s donor port
and base station B are derived using the unwanted emission requirements in the
first adjacent channel (TS 25.106 section 9.1.1):
For Pmax~RepA~ ≥ +39 dBm;
CL~BSB-RepA~ ≥ 105 dB
For +31 dBm ≤ Pmax~RepA~ \ Operator A subscribers are shown as blue dots.
>
> Operator B subscribers are shown as red dots.
Dropped calls are shown as follows:
> Red -- operator B, DL related dropped call
>
> Magenta -- operator B, UL related dropped call
>
> Blue -- operator A, DL related dropped call
>
> Cyan -- operator A, UL related dropped call
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.17: Subscriber distribution for operator A and operator B in the last
snapshot, case 1 to 9.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.18: dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 1.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.19: dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 2.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.20: dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 3.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.21: dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 4.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.22: dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 5.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.23: dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 6.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.24: dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 7.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.25: dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 8.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.26: dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 9.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.27: Subscriber distribution for operator A and operator B in snapshot
30 case 10 to 18.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.28: dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 10.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.29: dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 11.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.30: dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 12.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.31: dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 13.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.32: dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 14.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.33: dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 15.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.34: dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 16.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.35: dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 17.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.36: dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 18.
### 6.5.3.2 164 m minimum distance between repeater A and BSB
In the Simulations for repeater A to BS B minimum distance of 164 m, made
here, 9 cases per 30 snapshots was made. ACRR for each case is shown in table
6.9 below.
Table 6.9: ACRR cases for Repeater A to BS B distance of 164 m.
* * *
Case 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 ACRR 0 4 6 8 22 25 27 37 50
0 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45
* * *
The repeater donor coupling loss was 61 dB and the repeater gain was set to 51
dB.
Figure 6.37: Median BS output power for operator A and operator B.
Figure 6.38: Median DL interference for operator A and operator B.
Figure 6.39: Median UL interference for operator A and operator B.
Figure 6.40: Median UE output power for operator A and operator B.
Figure 6.41: Median number of soft hand-overs for operator A and operator B.
Figure 6.42: Number of saturated repeaters for operator A and number of
dropped calls due to UL causes for operator B. Note that no calls were dropped
due to UL causes for operator A.
Figure 6.43: Number of dropped calls due to DL causes for operator A and
operator B.
The following figures show the positions of the dropped calls subscribers in
the last snapshot of a simulation. Note that the subscriber distribution in
case 1 to 9 is not the same as in case 10 to 18\. However repeaters are off in
both case 1, in case 10 for comparison.
> Operator A subscribers are shown as blue dots.
>
> Operator B subscribers are shown as red dots.
Dropped calls are shown as follows:
> Red -- operator B, DL related dropped call
>
> Magenta -- operator B, UL related dropped call
>
> Blue -- operator A, DL related dropped call
>
> Cyan -- operator A, UL related dropped call
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.44: Subscriber distribution of the last snapshot for operator A and
operator B in case 1 to 9.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.45: Dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 1 -- repeater
is off.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.46: Dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 2 -- ACRR = 4
dB.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.47: Dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 3 -- ACRR = 6
dB.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.48: Dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 4 -- ACRR = 8
dB.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.49: Dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 5 -- ACRR =
22 dB.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.50: Dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 6 -- ACRR =
25 dB.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.51: Dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 7 -- ACRR =
27 dB.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.52: Dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 8 -- ACRR =
37 dB.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.53: Dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 9 -- ACRR =
50 dB.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.54: Subscriber distribution in snapshot number 30 for operator A and
operator B in case 10 to 18
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.55: Dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 10 -- ther
repeater is off.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.56: Dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 11 -- ACRR =
10 dB.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.57: Dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 12 -- ACRR =
15 dB.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.58: Dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 13 -- ACRR =
20 dB.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.59: Dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 14 -- ACRR =
25 dB.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.60: Dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 15 -- ACRR =
30 dB.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.61: Dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 16 -- ACRR =
35 dB.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.62: Dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 17 -- ACRR =
40 dB.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 6.63: Dropped calls for operator A and operator B in case 18 -- ACRR =
45 dB.
### 6.5.4 Conclusions
The results show an increasingly negative impact on the network performance in
the adjacent channel when the ACRR is lower than 20 dB. Operator B experiences
negligible impact for ACRR = 30 dB or more.
The impact seems to be local around RF sources (Repeaters and Base Stations),
mainly in the down link. The results are very similar for the two repeater
positions.
### 6.5.5 Comments
Since filters are linear devices, the capability of modern 3G receivers to
interpret the signal may not be hampered as much as previously assumed by the
filter flanks.
#