# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
In the present document is described additions, deletions, and changes made to
ITU-T Recommendation H.324 [10] with annex C for the purpose of using that
recommendation as a basis for the technical specification for circuit switched
multimedia service in 3GPP networks. The present document does not address
call setup procedures, but references to the specifications which cover call
setup are found in 3GPP TS 26.110 [11].
# 1 Scope
In ITU-T Recommendation H.324 [10] with annex C describes a generic multimedia
codec for use in error-prone, wireless networks. The scope of the present
document are the changes, deletions, and additions to those texts necessary to
fully specify a multimedia codec for use in 3GPP networks. Note that this
implicitly excludes the network interface and call setup procedures. Also
excluded are any general introductions to the system components.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] ITU-T Recommendation H.223: \"Multiplexing protocol for low bit rate
multimedia communication\".
[2] ITU-T Recommendation H.223 - Annex A: \"Multiplexing protocol for low bit
rate multimedia mobile communication over low error-prone channels\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation H.223 - Annex B: \"Multiplexing protocol for low bit
rate multimedia mobile communication over moderate error-prone channels\".
[4] ITU-T Recommendation H.223 - Annex C: \"Multiplexing protocol for low bit
rate multimedia mobile communication over highly error-prone channels\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation H.223 - Annex D: \"Optional multiplexing protocol for
low bit rate multimedia mobile communication over highly error-prone
channels\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation H.245: \"Control protocol for multimedia
communication\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation G.723.1: \"Dual rate speech coder for multimedia
communication transmitting at 5,3 and 6,3 kbit/s\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation H.263: \"Video coding for low bitrate
communication\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation H.261: \"Video CODEC for audiovisual services at px64
kbit/s\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation H.324: \"Terminal for low bitrate multimedia
communication\".
[11] 3GPP TS 26.110: \"Codec for Circuit Switched Multimedia Telephony
Service; General description\".
[12] 3GPP TR 26.911: \"Codec for circuit switched multimedia telephony
service; terminal implementor\'s Guide (Release 4)\".
[13] ITU-T Recommendation X.691: \"Information Technology - ASN.1 Encoding
Rules - Specification of Packed Encoding Rules (PER)\".
[14] ISO/IEC 14496-2: \"Information technology - Coding of audio-visual
objects - Part 2: Visual\".
[15] 3GPP TS 26.071: \"General description\".
[16] 3GPP TS 26.090: \"Transcoding functions\".
[17] 3GPP TS 26.073: \"Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR); ANSI C source code\".
[18] 3GPP TS 26.171: \"AMR Wideband Speech codec; General Description\".
[19] ITU-T Recommendation H.264 (2003): \"Advanced video coding for generic
audiovisual services\" \| ISO/IEC 14496-10:2003: \"Information technology --
Coding of audio-visual objects -- Part 10: Advanced Video Coding\".
[20] ITU-T Recommendation H.241 (2003): \"Extended video procedures and
control signals for H.300 series terminals\".
[21] ITU-T Recommendation G.722.2 Annex F (2002): \"AMR-WB usage in H.245\".
[22] 3GPP TS 26.201 : \"Adaptive Multi-Rate -- Wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec
; Frame Structure.\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**H.324:** ITU-T H.324 [10] with annex C
**3G-324M terminal:** based on ITU-T H.324 [10] recommendation modified by
3GPP for purposes of 3GPP circuit switched network based video telephony
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AMR Adaptive Multi-Rate
AMR-WB AMR Wide-Band
AVC Advanced Video Codec
FLC Fixed Length Code
RVLC Reverse Variable Length Code
DP Data Partitioning
RM Resynchronization Marker
MCU Multipoint Control Unit
# 4 General
The present document contains any deviations to ITU-T H.324 [10] required for
the specification of 3G-324M Terminals.
# 5 Document structure
The structure of H.324 [10] is followed in the present document. Where there
are no differences in a specific section, that section is skipped. Where
differences are minor, only the differences are described. Where major
differences exist, the section is rewritten in the present document. It is
important to note that for wireless terminals, Annex C of H.324 [10]
supersedes respective portions of the main body of H.324 [10] For the present
document, these modifications are treated as if they are part of the main body
of H.324 [10] Therefore, a reader must keep in mind both the main body and
Annex C of H.324 [10] when reading the present document.
# 6 Functional requirements
## 6.1 Required elements
3G-324M implementations are not required to have each functional element
except a wireless interface, H.223 [1] with Annex A and B multiplex, and H.245
[6] version 3 or later versions for system control protocol.
3G-324M terminals offering audio communication shall support the AMR audio
codec. Support for G.723.1 [7] is not mandatory, but recommended.
3G-324M terminals offering video communication shall support the H.263 [8]
video codec. Support for MPEG-4 simple profile and H.261 [9] is optional.
3G-324M terminals shall support H.223 [1] with annex A and annex B.
3G-324M terminals shall support at least 32 kbit/s minimum bit rate at the mux
to wireless network interface.
## 6.2 Information streams
V.25ter discussion does not apply.
## 6.3 Modem
Does not apply.
## 6.4 Multiplex
3G-324M terminals shall support H.223 [1] with annex A and annex B. All other
aspects shall follow H.324 [10] with annex C. H.223 [1] Annex C and D are
optional.
## 6.5 Control channel
No differences with H.324 [10].
Should it not be possible to signal an element of the 3G-324M terminal using a
published version of H.245 [6], a procedure will be defined here.
## 6.6 Video channels
Support for H.261 [9] is optional.
Support for MPEG-4 Visual is optional. When supported, MPEG-4 Visual codecs
shall support Simple Profile @ Level 0. The FLC code 0000 1000 in Table G-1 --
\"FLC table for profile_and_level_indication\" in ISO/IEC 14496-2 [14] is
assigned to it. Additional information can be found in [14].
MPEG-4 Visual Simple Profile @ level 0 provides error concealment as part of
the simple profile through Data Partitioning (DP), Reversible Variable Length
Coding (RVLC), Resynchronization Marker (RM) and header extension code. MPEG-4
Visual is baseline compatible with H.263 [8].
When opening a logical channel for MPEG-4 Visual, configuration information
(Visual Object Sequence Header, Visual Object Header, and Video Object Layer
Header) shall be sent in the decoderConfigurationInformation parameter. The
same information shall also be sent in the MPEG-4 video bitstream. If the
operational mode of MPEG‑4 Visual encoder needs to be changed, the existing
MPEG-4 video logical channel shall be closed and H.245 [6] procedures for
opening a new MPEG-4 video logical channel shall be started. The new
operational mode shall be indicated in the parameters of the new logical
channel.
Support for H.264 (MPEG-4 AVC) [19] is optional. When supported, H.264 codecs
shall support Baseline level 1, without requirements on output timing
conformance (Annex C of [19]).
Support for H.264 [19] shall be signalled according to H.241 chapter 8
\"Capability Exchange signalling\" [20].
When opening a logical channel for H.264 [19], initial sequence parameter
set(s) and picture parameter set(s) should be sent in a H.264
DecoderConfigurationInformation (DCI) defined in Table 1 below, amending H.241
parameters [20]. Additionally, decoder capabilities may be sent in a H.264
AcceptRedundantSlices and a H.264 ProfileIOP defined in Table 2 and 3 below,
amending H.241 parameters [20].
NOTE: The H.264 DCI parameter can also be used when either party signals a
H.245 [6] MasterSlaveDetermination terminalType parameter greater than 128,
such as e.g. a Multipoint Conference Unit (MCU).
A sequence parameter set or a picture parameter set with a particular value of
seq_parameter_set_id or pic_parameter_set_id, respectively, sent in the H.264
[19] DCI shall be identical to the earliest occurrence of the sequence
parameter set or picture parameter set with the same value of
seq_parameter_set_id or pic_parameter_set_id, respectively, sent in the H.264
bitstream.
If DCI was used when a H.264 [19] logical channel was opened and H.264
sequence parameter sets need to be changed or new sets need to be added during
the session, the existing H.264 logical channel shall be closed and H.245 [6]
procedures for opening a new H.264 logical channel shall be started, in which
sequence parameter set(s) and picture parameter set(s) shall be sent in a DCI.
Each sequence parameter set of H.264 [19] shall contain the vui_parameters
syntax structure including the num_reorder_frames syntax element set equal to
0.
If H.264 picture parameter sets need to be changed or new sets need to be
added during a session, it may be done either by opening a new logical channel
using the same procedure as described above or within the current channel, by
including picture parameter set NAL units directly in the bitstream.
Table 1 / TS 26.111 -- H.264 Capability Parameter --
DecoderConfigurationInformation (DCI)
+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameter name | DecoderConfigurationInformation | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameter description | This is a nonCollapsing | | | GenericParameter. | | | | | | DecoderConfigurationInformation | | | indicates how to configure the decoder | | | for a particular H.264 video sequence | | | [19]. It contains sequence parameter | | | set NAL units, picture parameter set | | | NAL units, or both, using the byte | | | stream format specified in Annex | | | B/H.264, separating NAL units with a | | | start code. The use of a start code | | | before the first parameter set NAL | | | unit is optional. | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameter identifier value | 43 | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameter status | Optional. Shall not be present for | | | Capability Exchange and Mode Request. | | | May be present exactly once for | | | Logical Channel Signalling. | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameter type | OctetString | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Supersedes | - | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+
A decoder may indicate its\' capability to make use of H.264 redundant slices
by the following parameter.
Table 2 / TS 26.111 -- H.264 Capability Parameter -- AcceptRedundantSlices
+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameter name | AcceptRedundantSlices | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameter description | This is a collapsing GenericParameter. | | | | | | AcceptRedundantSlices indicates the | | | capability to use H.264 redundant | | | slices and corresponds to the MIME | | | video/H264 parameter | | | \"redundant-pic-cap\".\ | | | When False or when the parameter is | | | not present, it indicates that the | | | receiver makes no attempt to use | | | redundant coded pictures to correct | | | incorrectly decoded primary coded | | | pictures and a sender should not send | | | redundant slices.\ | | | When True, it indicates that the | | | receiver is capable of decoding any | | | such redundant slice that covers a | | | corrupted area in a primary decoded | | | picture (at least partly), and a | | | sender may send redundant slices.\ | | | When using a H.264 profile (or subset | | | of a profile as indicated by the H.264 | | | ProfileIOP parameter defined in Table | | | 3) and level that disallows the use of | | | redundant slices, this parameter shall | | | be ignored. | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameter identifier value | 44 | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameter status | Optional. May be present exactly once | | | for Capability Exchange Signalling. | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameter type | Logical | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Supersedes | - | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+
NOTE: An encoder should only code redundant slices if it knows that the far-
end decoder makes use of this feature. Encoders should also pay attention to
potential implications on end-to-end delay.
A decoder may indicate additional limitations that only the common subset of
the algorithmic features and limitations of the Baseline level 1 are supported
by the following parameter.
Table 3 / TS 26.111 -- H.264 Capability Parameter -- ProfileIOP
+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameter name | ProfileIOP | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameter description | ProfileIOP indicates that the | | | capability to decode H.264 streams is | | | limited to a common subset of the | | | algorithmic features included in the | | | indicated profile and level. | | | | | | This parameter is a Boolean array. | | | | | | bit 1 (value 128) is | | | constraint_set0_flag. | | | | | | bit 2 (value 64) is | | | constraint_set1_flag. | | | | | | bit 3 (value 32) is | | | constraint_set2_flag. | | | | | | All other bits are reserved, shall be | | | set to 0, and shall be ignored by | | | receivers. | | | | | | constraint_set0_flag, | | | constraint_set1_flag and | | | constraint_set2_flag are defined in | | | [18]. | | | | | | As an example, a receiver indicating | | | decoding support of the intersection | | | of the baseline and main profile will | | | signal value 11000000 | | | (constraint_set0_flag = 1, | | | constraint_set1_flag = 1, | | | constraint_set2_flag = 0). | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameter identifier value | 46 | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameter status | Optional. May be present exactly once | | | for Capability Exchange Signalling. | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameter type | BooleanArray | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Supersedes | - | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+
A terminal supporting H.264 encoding should respond to all
videoFastUpdatePicture commands received via the H.245 control channel. If an
H.264 encoder responds to videoFastUpdatePicture, it shall use the procedure
specified in subclause 6.2.2 of H.241.
A terminal supporting H.264 shall start decoding immediately when it receives
data (even if the stream does not start with an IDR access unit) or
alternatively no later than it receives the next IDR access unit or the next
recovery point SEI message, whichever is earlier in decoding order. The
decoding process for a stream not starting with an IDR access unit shall be
the same as for a valid H.264 bitstream. However, the client shall be aware
that such a stream may contain references to picture not available in the
decoded picture buffer. The display behaviour of the client is out of scope of
this specification.
NOTE: Terminals may use full-frame freeze and full-frame freeze release SEI
messages of H.264 to control the display process.
### 6.6.1 MPEG-4 interface to multiplex
As H.263 [8] encoders align picture start codes with the start of an AL-SDU,
the same concept applies to MPEG-4 encoders. The following are the
requirements of the MPEG-4 interface to the H.223 [1] multiplex.
a) Each 3G-324M MPEG-4 encoder shall align each
visual_object_sequence_start_code with the start of an AL-SDU.
b) Each 3G-324M MPEG-4 encoder shall align each group_of_vop_start_code (the
beginning of a GOV field) with the start of an AL-SDU unless the GOV field
immediately follows configuration information.
c) Each 3G-324M MPEG-4 encoder shall align each vop_start_code with the start
of an AL-SDU unless the vop_start_code immediately follows configuration
information or a GOV field.
In these requirements, GOV stands for Group_of_VideoObjectPlane() and
Configuration information consists of Visual Object Sequence Header, Visual
Object Header, and Video Object Layer Header.
### 6.6.2 H.264 (MPEG-4 AVC) interface to multiplex
Shall conform to the byte stream format according to H.241 chapter 7.1.5
\"Transport of H.264 streams in H.324 systems\" [20].
More strict alignment of AL-SDU and NAL units may optionally be used. To
signal capability for and use of this mode, the generic parameter described in
Table 3 shall be used, amending the H.264 Generic Capability in H.241 [20].
Table 3 / TS 26.111 -- H.264 Capability Parameter -- NalAlignedMode
+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameter name | NalAlignedMode | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameter description | This is a collapsing GenericParameter. | | | | | | NalAlignedMode indicates that every | | | AL-SDU carrying H.264 shall contain an | | | integer number of NAL units and that | | | the start of the AL-SDU shall be | | | aligned with the start of a NAL. | | | Individual NAL units within the AL-SDU | | | shall be separated by start codes as | | | described in Annex B/H.264. The use of | | | a start code before the first NAL in | | | an AL-SDU is optional. | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameter identifier value | 45 | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameter status | Optional. May be present exactly once | | | for Capability Exchange, Logical | | | Channel, or Mode Request Signalling. | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameter type | Logical | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Supersedes | - | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+
## 6.7 Audio channels
AMR is the mandatory speech codec. Support for G.723.1 [7] is not mandatory,
but recommended. Support for AMR-WB [18] is also recommended.
When AMR-WB is supported, the AMR-WB speech data shall be carried in IF2 frame
format as defined in Annex A of 3GPP TS 26.201 [22], and the [ ]{.underline}
signalling for AMR-WB shall be according to G.722.2 Annex F [21] with the
following additional restrictions:
\- octetAlign shall be present
\- The following parameters are not compatible with IF2 frame format, and so
shall not be used:
\- crc
\- robustSorting
\- interleaving
When both the receiving and transmitting terminals support multiple codecs in
common, the use of AMR and AMR-WB is preferred:
\- If both the receiving and transmitting terminals support AMR and other
codecs (e.g. G.723.1) but not AMR-WB, then AMR shall be used.
\- If both the receiving and transmitting terminals support AMR and other
codecs including AMR-WB, either AMR or AMR-WB shall be used.
Asymmetric configurations with one codec in one direction and another one in
the other direction (e.g. AMR in one direction and AMR-WB in the other
direction) are allowed, if supported by both terminals.
This applies to connections without an Multipoint Control Unit (MCU).
## 6.8 Data channels
No differences with H.324 [10].
# 7 Terminal procedures
See 3GPP TS 26.110 [11].
# 8 Optional enhancements
No differences with H.324 [10].
# 9 Interoperation with other terminals
For further study.
# 10 Multipoint considerations
For further study.
# 11 Maintenance
No differences with H.324 [10].
#