# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Linear TV services can be made available on 3GPP services, e.g., based on
MBMS, PSS user services and 5GMS.
For traditional linear TV distribution, TV services accessed through
Satellite, Digital Terrestrial TV (DTT), cable or IPTV obey to requirements on
the video profiles to ensure a consistent quality of experience while
accessing different channels within a TV bouquet.
On-demand video services, via streaming or downloading, generally obey to the
same requirements.
The purpose of the present document is to specify TV distribution formats with
detailed definitions of consistent video distribution formats (such as spatial
and temporal resolutions, aspect ratios, random access points, etc.) for which
operators can provide consistent quality of experience for TV services.
The document is not restricted to operator services, but may also be referred
to and used by third-party services that expect to have consistent quality of
experience for TV services on 3GPP-defined radio bearers.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies requirements and guidelines on video source
formats (frame rate, resolution, aspect ratio, colorimetry, bit depth...) and
encoding parameters (codec format, random access point period, SEI
messages...) for different types of TV services, including linear TV, catch-up
TV or on-demand services. A limited set of Operation Points (e.g. SDTV, HDTV,
UHD, 8K UHD, ...) are defined to provide confidence to content
providers/broadcasters on the quality of experience offered by 3GPP services
when used for TV-like distribution. Operation Points define format and
encoding restrictions but may also be viewed as compatibility points for UEs.
In particular, the Operation Points defined in the present document may serve
as the primary tested configurations for TV centric video distribution. The
Operation Points are defined based on the analysis and findings in the
technical report TR 26.949 [2].
In addition, in the context of DASH operations, not only the main distribution
formats are defined, but also a subset of spatial and temporal resolutions. In
order to minimize testing for seamless switching experience, suitable lower
resolutions of distribution formats are defined. Furthermore, to compensate
congestion situations, a minimum service quality is defined in order to
provide service continuity.
The specification is aligned with the Common Media Application Format (CMAF)
as defined in ISO/IEC 23000-19 [13] to a large extent. Differences and further
restrictions compared to CMAF baseline formats as well as media profiles are
highlighted.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 26.949: \"Video formats for 3GPP services\".
[3] Recommendation ITU-R BT.709-6 (06/2015): \"Parameter values for the HDTV
standards for production and international programme exchange\".
[4] Recommendation ITU-R BT.2020-2 (10/2015): \"Parameter values for ultra-
high definition television systems for production and international programme
exchange\".
[5] Recommendation ITU-T H.264 (04/2017): \"Advanced video coding for generic
audiovisual services\" \| ISO/IEC 14496-10:2014: \"Information technology --
Coding of audio-visual objects -- Part 10: Advanced Video Coding\".
[6] Recommendation ITU-T H.265 (11/2019): \"High efficiency video coding\" \|
ISO/IEC 23008-2:2020: \"High Efficiency Coding and Media Delivery in
Heterogeneous Environments -- Part 2: High Efficiency Video Coding\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.244: \"Transparent end-to-end packet switched streaming service
(PSS); 3GPP file format (3GP)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 26.247: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS); Progressive Download and Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP (3GP-
DASH)\".
[9] ISO/IEC 14496-15: 2019: \"Information technology - Coding of audio-visual
objects - Part 15: Carriage of network abstraction layer (NAL) unit structured
video in ISO base media file format\".
[10] ISO/IEC 23091-2:2019, \"Information technology --- Coding-independent
code points --- Part 2: Video.
[11] Recommendation ITU‑R BT.2100-2 (07/2018): \"Image parameter values for
high dynamic range television for use in production and international
programme exchange\".
[12] 3GPP TS 26.511: \"5G Media Streaming (5GMS); Profiles, codecs and
formats\".
[13] ISO/IEC 23000-19:2021: \"Information technology --- Multimedia
application format (MPEG-A) --- Part 19: Common media application format
(CMAF) for segmented media\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Bitstream:** A media bitstream that conforms to a video encoding format and
certain Operation Point.
**Operation Point:** A collection of discrete combinations of different
content formats including spatial and temporal resolutions, colour mapping,
transfer functions, etc. and the encoding format.
**Pillarbox:** The pillarbox effect occurs in widescreen video displays when
black bars (mattes or masking) are placed on the sides of the image. It
becomes necessary when film or video that was not originally designed for
widescreen is shown on a widescreen display, or a narrower widescreen image is
displayed within a wider aspect ratio.
**Receiver:** A receiver that can decode and render any bitstream that is
conforming to a certain Operation Point.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5GMS 5G Media Streaming
AVC Advanced Video Coding
CVS Coded Video Sequence
DASH Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP
EOTF Electro-Optical Transfer Function
FFS For Further Study
HD High Definition
HDR High Dynamic Range
HLG Hybrid Log Gamma
HRD Hypothetical Reference Decoder
HEVC High Efficiency Video Coding
MBMS Multicast Broadcast Multimedia Service
MPD Media Presentation Description
OETF Opto-Electronic Transfer Function
NAL Network Abstraction Layer
PPS Picture Parameter Set
PQ Perceptual Quantization
PSS Packet Switch Streaming
RAP Random Access Point
SDR Standard Dynamic Range
SEI Supplemental Enhancement Information
SPS Sequence Parameter Set
TV Television
UHD Ultra High Definition
VCL Video Coding Layer
VUI Video Usability Information
# 4 Video profiles Operation Points
## 4.1 Introduction
The video profile Operation Points defined in this clause are primarily
defined in order to apply to the content format being delivered to 3GPP UE
PSS/DASH,MBMS and 5GMS clients over the 3GPP system. Parameters for video
encoder/decoder, content format and transport are defined.
The following Operation Points are defined in the present document: H.264/AVC
720p HD, H.264/AVC Full HD, H.265/HEVC 720p HD, H.265/HEVC Full HD, H.265/HEVC
UHD, H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR, H.265/HEVC UHD HDR, H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR HLG
and H.265/HEVC UHD HDR HLG.
Clause 4.2 specifies general requirements applicable to all Operation Points.
Clause 4.3 specifies general requirements applicable to the video codecs. Then
for each Operation Point, Bitstream and Receiver requirements are detailed in
clause 4.4 for H.264/AVC and clause 4.5 for H.265/HEVC.
## 4.2 General requirements on video profile Operation Points
The following requirements apply to video profile Operation Points:
\- 16:9 picture aspect ratio shall be used. 3GPP UEs with display aspect ratio
different from 16:9 and supporting the TV services over 3GPP are, by default,
assumed to display the video in letter-box or pillarbox modes, depending on
the screen size and orientation.
\- Y\'CbCr (non-constant luminance) as the Chroma Format should be used.
\- 4:2:0 chroma sub-sampling shall be used.
\- The following spatial resolutions should be used for:
\- Operation Points (for video intended to be viewed in full-screen mode):
7680 × 4320, 5120 × 2880, 3840 × 2160, 1920 × 1080 and 1280 × 720.
\- Distribution formats: 7680 × 4320, 5120 × 2880, 3840 × 2160, 3200 × 1800,
2560 × 1440, 1920 × 1080, 1600 × 900, 1280 × 720, 960 × 540, 854 × 480, 640 ×
360, 426 × 240.
NOTE 1: Distribution formats within an Operation Point do not exceed the
native resolution of the Operation Point, but they may be subsampled in order
to optimize distribution or adapt to the viewing conditions.
\- The following frame rates should be used depending on the Operation Point:
24; 25; 30; 50 and 60Hz. The following fractional frame rates may be used:
24/1.001, 30/1.001, 60/1.001 (Hz). Frame rates are not associated to any
particular spatial resolution.
\- The following colour space formats may be used depending on the Operation
Point: ITU-R BT.709 [3] and ITU-R BT.2020 [4]. If no signal is provided for
the colour space, BT.709 [3] should be assumed as default colour space.
Receiving devices should support BT.2020 [4] signaling and provide an
appropriate mapping of the signal to the supported colour space of the device.
Colour spaces are not associated to any particular spatial resolution.
\- The following transfer characteristics may be used depending on the
Operation Point: ITU-R BT.709 [3] and ITU-R BT.2020 [4] non-constant luminance
transfer characteristics or the electro-optical transfer function as defined
in Recommendation ITU‑R BT.2100 [11], either for the Perceptual Quantization
(PQ) system, or for the Hybrid Log Gamma (HLG) system.
NOTE 2: Although ITU-R BT.2020 is originally only recommended for 2160p/4320p
resolution, this 3GPP specification recommends that BT.2020 be supported
irrespective of the resolution to keep the colour space consistent across
resolutions.
\- The Random Access Point period shall be less than or equal to 5 seconds,
should be less than or equal to 2 seconds and may be less than or equal to 0.5
second for H.264/AVC [5] and 1 second for H.265/HEVC [6] for specific service
requirements such as fast channel change or fast access to the bitstream.
\- Bit depth: Either 8 or 10 bits shall be used depending on the Operation
Point.
Table 4.2-1 provides an overview of the Operation Points defined in the
present document.
Table 4.2-1: TV over 3GPP services Video Profile Operation Points
Operation Point name | Resolution format | Picture aspect ratio | Scan | Max. frame rate | Chroma format | Chroma sub-sampling | Bit depth | Colour space format | 
> Transfer
Characteristics  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
H.264/AVC 720p HD | 1280 × 720 | 16:9 | Progressive | 30 | Y'CbCr | 4:2:0 | 8 | BT.709 [3] | BT.709 [3]  
H.265/HEVC 720p HD | 1280 × 720 | 16:9 | Progressive | 30 | Y'CbCr | 4:2:0 | 8 | BT.709 [3] | BT.709 [3]  
H.264/AVC Full HD | 1920 × 1080 | 16:9 | Progressive | 60 | Y'CbCr | 4:2:0 | 8 | BT.709 [3] | BT.709 [3]  
**H.265/HEVC Full HD** | 1920 × 1080 | 16:9 | Progressive | 60 | Y'CbCr | 4:2:0 | 8; 10 | BT.709 [3]; BT.2020 [4] | BT.709 [3]; BT.2020 [4]  
H.265/HEVC UHD | 3840 × 2160 | 16:9 | Progressive | 60 | Y'CbCr | 4:2:0 | 10 | BT.2020 [4] | BT.2020 [4]  
H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR | 1920 x 1080 | 16:9 | Progressive | 60 | Y'CbCr | 4:2:0 | 10 | BT.2020 [4] | BT.2100 PQ [11]  
H.265/HEVC UHD HDR | 3840 x 2160 | 16:9 | Progressive | 60 | Y'CbCr | 4:2:0 | 10 | BT.2020 [4] | BT.2100 PQ [11]  
H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR HLG | 1920 x 1080 | 16:9 | Progressive | 60 | Y'CbCr | 4:2:0 | 10 | BT.2020 [4] | BT.2100 HLG [11]  
H.265/HEVC 8K UHD | 7680 x 4320 | 16:9 | Progressive | 60 | Y'CbCr | 4:2:0 | 10 | BT.2020 [4] | 
> **BT.2020 [4];** **BT.2100 PQ; [11]; BT.2100 HLG [11]**  
Operation Points are defined including the video codec format.
## 4.3 General Video codec requirements
The following video codecs and associated Profiles and Levels should be used:
\- H.264/AVC Progressive High Profile Level 3.1 [5] for 720p HD services
\- H.264/AVC Progressive High Profile Level 4.2 [5] for Full HD services
\- H.265/HEVC Main Profile Main Tier Level 3.1 [6] for 720p HD services
\- H.265/HEVC Main-10 Profile Main Tier Level 4.1 [6] for Full HD services
\- H.265/HEVC Main-10 Profile Main Tier Profile Level 5.1 [6] for UHD services
\- H.265/HEVC Main-10 Profile Main Tier Profile Level 4.1 [6] for Full HD HDR
services
\- H.265/HEVC Main-10 Profile Main Tier Profile Level 5.1 [6] for UHD HDR
services
\- H.265/HEVC Main-10 Profile Main Tier Profile Level 6.1 [6] for 8K UHD
services
The Table 4.3-1 presents the mapping of the operation points with the codec
type, profile and level.
Table 4.3-1: Video codec parameters
* * *
Operation Point name Resolution Format Codec type, profile and level H.264/AVC
720p HD 1280 × 720 AVC/H.264 Progressive High Profile Level 3.1 HEVC/H.265
720p HD 1280 × 720 HEVC/H.265 Main Profile Main Tier Level 3.1 H.264/AVC Full
HD 1920 × 1080 AVC/H.264 Progressive High Profile Level 4.2 HEVC/H.265 Full HD
1920 × 1080 HEVC/H.265 Main-10 Profile Main Tier Level 4.1 HEVC/H.265 UHD 3840
× 2160 HEVC/H.265 Main-10 Profile Main Tier Level 5.1 HEVC/H.265 Full HD HDR
1920 x 1080 HEVC/H.265 Main-10 Profile Main Tier Level 4.1 HEVC/H.265 UHD HDR
3840 x 2160 HEVC/H.265 Main-10 Profile Main Tier Level 5.1 HEVC/H.265 Full HD
HDR HLG 1920 x 1080 HEVC/H.265 Main-10 Profile Main Tier Level 4.1 HEVC/H.265
UHD HDR HLG 3840 x 2160 HEVC/H.265 Main-10 Profile Main Tier Level 5.1
HEVC/H.265 8K UHD 7680 x 4320 HEVC/H.265 Main-10 Profile Main Tier Level 6.1
* * *
## 4.4 H.264/AVC Operation Points
### 4.4.1 Common requirements and recommendations
#### 4.4.1.1 General
The video Bitstream and Receiver shall conform to Recommendation ITU-T H.264 /
ISO/IEC 14496-10 [5] with the restrictions described in this clause. H.264/AVC
Bitstreams and Receivers shall support some parts of the \"Video Usability
Information (VUI)\" syntax elements as specified in Recommendation ITU-T H.264
/ ISO/IEC 14496-10 [5], annex E, which values are defined in this clause.
#### 4.4.1.2 Random access point
##### 4.4.1.2.1 Definition
An H.264/AVC random access point (RAP) is defined as an access unit in an
H.264/AVC Bitstream at which a Receiver can begin decoding the video
successfully. This access unit shall include an AU delimiter NAL unit, only
one Sequence Parameter Set (that is active) including the VUI and the Picture
Parameter Set (PPS) that is required for decoding the associated picture. The
access unit shall contain an IDR picture or an I picture.
##### 4.4.1.2.2 Random access point period
RAPs shall be present in the Bitstream at least once every 5 seconds. It is
recommended that RAPs occur in the video Bitstream on average at least every 2
seconds. The time interval between successive RAPs is measured as the
difference between their respective decoding time values.
#### 4.4.1.3 Sequence parameter set
The following restrictions apply to the active Sequence Parameter Set (SPS):
\- gaps_in_frame_num_value_allowed_flag value shall be set to 0.
\- The Video Usability Information shall be present in the active Sequence
Parameter Set. The vui_parameter_present_flag shall be set to 1.
\- The source video format shall be progressive. frame_mbs_only_flag shall be
set to 1 for every picture of the Bitstream.
#### 4.4.1.4 Video usability information
The aspect ratio information shall be present, i.e.
\- The aspect_ratio_present_flag value shall be set to 1.
\- The aspect_ratio_idc value shall be set to 1 indicating a square pixel
format.
NOTE: CMAF [13] permits other pixel format than square pixels, but this is not
the case in this specification.The colour parameter information shall be
present, i.e.
\- video_signal_type_present_flag value and colour_description_present_flag
value shall be set to 1.
\- The values of colour_primaries, transfer_characteristics and
matrix_coefficients are defined in clause 4.4.2.4 for H.264/AVC 720p HD and in
clause 4.4.3.4 for H.264/AVC Full HD Operation Points.
The timing information may be present.
\- If the timing information is present, i.e. the value of
timing_info_present_flag is set to 1, then the values of num_units_in_tick and
time_scale shall be set according to the frame rates allowed in clause 4.4.2.5
for H.264/AVC 720p HD and in clause 4.4.3.5 for H.264/AVC Full HD Operation
Points. The timing information present in the video Bitstream should be
consistent with the timing information signalled at the system level.
NOTE: In 3GPP PSS and MBMS User services, the Receiver observes the timing at
the system level, and ignores the timing information in the video Bitstream.
\- The frame rate shall not change between two RAPs. fixed_frame_rate_flag
value shall be set to 1.
There are no requirements on output timing conformance for H.264/AVC decoding
(Annex C of [5]). The Hypothetical Reference Decoder (HRD) parameters, if
present, should be ignored by the Receiver.
### 4.4.2 H.264/AVC 720p HD Operation Point
#### 4.4.2.1 Introduction
The following restrictions apply for the **H.264/AVC 720p HD** Operation
Point. The general requirements and recommendations for Bitstreams and
Receivers for H.264/AVC Operation Points in clause 4.4.1 shall apply.
NOTE: This format is within the capabilities of H.264/AVC video codecs of 3GPP
video services up to Release 13.
#### 4.4.2.2 Profile and level
A Bitstream conforming to the H.264/AVC 720p HD Operation Point shall comply
with the following restrictions:
\- The profile_idc shall be set to 100 indicating the High profile.
\- The constrain_set0_flag, constrain_set1_flag, constrain_set2_flag and
constrain_set3_flag shall all be set to 0.
\- The value of level_idc shall not be greater than 31 (corresponding to the
level 3.1) and should indicate the lowest level to which the Bitstream
conforms.
#### 4.4.2.3 Spatial resolutions
The spatial resolution of the distribution format shall be one of the
following:
\- 1280 × 720,
\- 960 × 540,
\- 854 × 480,
\- 640 × 360,
\- 426 × 240.
#### 4.4.2.4 Colour information
A Bitstream conforming to the H.264/AVC 720p HD Operation Point shall use
Recommendation ITU-R BT.709 [3] colorimetry.
The colour_primaries value, the transfer_characteristics value and the
matrix_coefficients value in the Video Usability Information shall all be set
to 1.
A Receiver conforming to the H.264/AVC 720p HD Operation Point shall be
capable of decoding Bitstreams that use Recommendation ITU-R BT.709 [3]
colorimetry.
#### 4.4.2.5 Frame rates
A Bitstream conforming to the H.264/AVC 720p HD Operation Point shall have one
of the following frame rates: 24; 25; 30; 24/1.001; 30/1.001 Hz.
The frame rate may be indicated in the VUI by setting time_scale and
num_units_in_tick.
#### 4.4.2.6 Receiver compatibility
Receivers conforming to the **H.264/AVC 720p** Operation Point shall support
decoding and displaying **H.264/AVC 720p HD** Bitstreams.
Receivers conforming to the **H.264/AVC 720p** Operation Point are only
required to support Bitstreams with the maximum VCL Bit Rate constrained to be
14 Mbps with cpbBrVclFactor and cpbBrNalFactor being fixed to be 1000 and
1200, respectively.
### 4.4.3 H.264/AVC Full HD Operation Point
#### 4.4.3.1 Introduction
The following restrictions apply for the **H.264/AVC Full HD** Operation
Point. The general requirements and recommendations for Bitstreams and
Receivers for H.264/AVC Operation Points in clause 4.4.1 shall apply.
#### 4.4.3.2 Profile and level
A Bitstream conforming to the H.264/AVC Full HD Operation Point shall comply
with the following restrictions:
\- The profile_idc shall be set to 100 indicating the High profile.
\- The constrain_set0_flag, constrain_set1_flag, constrain_set2_flag and
constrain_set3_flag shall all be set to 0.
\- The value of level_idc shall not be greater than 42 (corresponding to the
level 4.2) ) and should indicate the lowest level to which the Bitstream
conforms.
#### 4.4.3.3 Spatial resolutions
The spatial resolution of the distribution format shall be one of the
following:
\- 1920 x 1080,
\- 1600 × 900,
\- 1280 × 720,
\- 960 × 540,
\- 854 × 480,
\- 640 × 360,
\- 426 × 240.
#### 4.4.3.4 Colour information
A Bitstream conforming to the H.264/AVC Full HD Operation Point shall use
Recommendation ITU-R BT.709 [3] colorimetry.
The colour_primaries value, the transfer_characteristics value and the
matrix_coefficients value in the Video Usability Information shall all be set
to 1.
A Receiver conforming to the H.264/AVC Full HD Operation Point shall be
capable of decoding Bitstreams that use Recommendation ITU-R BT.709 [3]
colorimetry.
#### 4.4.3.5 Frame rates
A Bitstream conforming to the H.264/AVC Full HD Operation Point shall have one
of the following frame rates: 24; 25; 30; 50; 60; 24/1.001; 30/1.001; 60/1.001
Hz.
The frame rate may be indicated in the VUI by setting time_scale and
num_units_in_tick.
#### 4.4.3.6 Receiver compatibility
Receivers conforming to the **H.264/AVC Full HD** Operation Point shall
support decoding and displaying **H.264/AVC 720p HD** and **H.264/AVC Full
HD** Bitstreams.
## 4.5 H.265/HEVC Operation Points
### 4.5.1 Common requirements and recommendations
#### 4.5.1.1 General
The video Bitstream and Receiver shall conform to Recommendation ITU-T H.265 /
ISO/IEC 23008-2 [6] with the restrictions described in this clause. H.265/HEVC
Bitstreams and Receivers shall support some parts of the \"Video usability
information (VUI)\" syntax elements as specified in Recommendation ITU-T H.265
/ ISO/IEC 23008-2 [6], annex E. which values are defined in this clause.
#### 4.5.1.2 Random access point
##### 4.5.1.2.1 Definition
An H.265/HEVC random access point (RAP) is defined as an access unit in an
H.265/HEVC Bitstream at which a Receiver can begin decoding the video
bitstream successfully. This access unit shall include an AU delimiter NAL
unit, only one Video Parameter Set (that is active), only one Sequence
Parameter Set (that is active) including the VUI and the Picture Parameter Set
that is required for decoding the associated picture. The access unit shall
contain an IRAP picture or an I picture, as defined in Recommendation ITU-T
H.265 / ISO/IEC 23008-2 [6].
##### 4.5.1.2.2 Random access point period
RAPs shall be present in the Bitstream at least once every 5 seconds. It is
recommended that RAPs occur in the video Bitstream on average at least every 2
seconds. The time interval between successive RAPs is measured as the
difference between their respective decoding time values.
#### 4.5.1.3 Video parameter set
H.265/HEVC Receivers should ignore the content of all Video Parameter Sets
(VPS) NAL units as defined in Recommendation ITU-T H.265 / ISO/IEC 23008-2
[6].
NOTE 1: The content of VPS may be used in future Operation Points.
NOTE 2: CMAF requires that each HEVC video media sample in the CMAF track
references the VPS in the CMAF header sample entry and that a VPS does not
change within CMAF tracks or between CMAF tracks in a CMAF switching set.
#### 4.5.1.4 Sequence parameter set
The following restrictions apply to the active Sequence Parameter Set (SPS):
\- The Video Usability Information (VUI) shall be present in the active
Sequence Parameter Set. The vui_parameters_present_flag shall be set to 1 and
the constraints defined in clause 4.5.1.5 for the VUI shall apply.
\- The chroma sub-sampling shall be 4:2:0, chroma_format_idc value shall be
set to 1.
NOTE: CMAF implicitly requires this as a requirement from its HEVC media
profiles.
\- The source video format shall be progressive, i.e.
\- The general_progressive_source_flag shall be set to 1,
\- The general_interlaced_source_flag shall be set to 0,
\- The general_frame_only_constraint_flag shall be set to 1.
\- Only 2D contents are required to be supported, i.e.
\- The general_non_packed_constraint_flag shall be set to 1.
Receivers conforming to any of the H.265/HEVC Operation Points shall only
support Bitstreams with the restrictions on the SPS defined above.
#### 4.5.1.5 Video usability information
The aspect ratio information shall be present, i.e.
\- The aspect_ratio_info_present_flag value shall be set to 1.
\- The aspect_ratio_idc value shall be set to 1 indicating a square pixel
format.
The colour parameter information shall be present, i.e.
\- video_signal_type_present_flag value and colour_description_present_flag
value shall be set to 1.
NOTE: CMAF does not require setting the above flags.- The values of
colour_primaries, transfer_characteristics and matrix_coeffs are defined
individually for each operation point.
Only video range signals shall be used, i.e.
\- The video_full_range_flag shall be set to 0.
No overscan signnalling shall be present, i.e.
\- the overscan_info_present_flag shall be set to 0
The timing information may be present.
\- If the timing information is present, i.e. the value of
vui_timing_info_present_flag is set to 1, then the values of
vui_num_units_in_tick and vui_time_scale shall be set according to the frame
rates allowed for each operation point. The timing information present in the
video Bitstream should be consistent with the timing information signalled at
the system level.
\- The frame rate shall not change between two RAPs. fixed_frame_rate_flag
value, if present, shall be set to 1.
NOTE 1: In 3GPP PSS and MBMS User services, the Receiver observes the timing
at the system level, and ignores the timing information in the video
Bitstream.
NOTE 2: CMAF does recommend to not change the frame rate within an entire CMAF
track.
> There are no requirements on output timing conformance for H.265/HEVC
> decoding (Annex C of [6]). The Hypothetical Reference Decoder (HRD)
> parameters, if present, should be ignored by the Receiver.
### 4.5.2 H.265/HEVC 720p HD Operation Point
#### 4.5.2.1 Introduction
The following restrictions apply for the **H.265/HEVC 720p HD** Operation
Point. The general requirements and recommendations for Bitstreams and
Receivers for H.265/HEVC Operation Points in clause 4.5.1 shall apply.
NOTE: This format is within the capabilities of H.265/HEVC video codecs as
defined in 3GPP video services up to Release 13.
#### 4.5.2.2 Profile, tier and level
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC 720p HD Operation Point shall comply
with the following restrictions:
\- The general_profile_idc shall be set to 1 indicating the Main profile.
\- The general_tier_flag shall be set to 0 indicating the Main tier.
\- The value of level_idc shall not be greater than 93 (corresponding to the
Level 3.1) and should indicate the lowest level to which the Bitstream
conforms.
NOTE: CMAF explicitly requires that the above parameters do not change
throughout an HEVC elementary stream. The above statement includes this
requirement implicitly.
#### 4.5.2.3 Bit depth
Bitstreams conforming to the H.265/HEVC 720p HD Operation Point shall be
encoded with 8 bit precision.
\- bit_depth_luma_minus8 = 0
\- bit_depth_chroma_minus8 = bit_depth_luma_minus8
Receivers conforming to the H.265/HEVC 720p HD Operation Point shall support 8
bit precision.
#### 4.5.2.4 Spatial resolutions
The spatial resolution of the distribution format shall be one of the
following:
\- 1280 × 720,
\- 960 × 540,
\- 854 × 480,
\- 640 × 360,
\- 426 × 240.
#### 4.5.2.5 Colour information
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC 720p HD Operation Point shall use
Recommendation ITU-R BT.709 [3] colorimetry.
The colour_primaries value, the transfer_characteristics value and the
matrix_coeffs value in the Video Usability Information shall all be set to 1.
A Receiver conforming to the H.265/HEVC 720p HD Operation Point shall be
capable of decoding Bitstreams that use Recommendation ITU-R BT.709 [3]
colorimetry.
#### 4.5.2.6 Frame rates
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC 720p HD Operation Point shall have
one of the following frame rates: 24; 25; 30; 24/1.001; 30/1.001 Hz.
The frame rate may be indicated in the VUI by setting vui_time_scale and
vui_num_units_in_tick.
#### 4.5.2.7 Receiver compatibility
Receivers conforming to the **H.265/HEVC 720p** Operation Point shall support
decoding and displaying **H.265/HEVC 720p HD** Bitstreams.
### 4.5.3 H.265/HEVC Full HD Operation Point
#### 4.5.3.1 Introduction
The following restrictions apply for the **H.265/HEVC Full HD** Operation
Point. The general requirements and recommendations for Bitstreams and
Receivers for H.265/HEVC Operation Points in clause 4.5.1 shall apply.
#### 4.5.3.2 Profile, tier and level
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC Full HD Operation Point shall comply
with the following restrictions:
\- The general_profile_idc shall be set to 2 indicating the Main10 profile.
\- The general_tier_flag shall be set to 0 indicating the Main tier.
\- The value of level_idc shall not be greater than 123 (corresponding to the
Level 4.1) and should indicate the lowest level to which the Bitstream
conforms.
#### 4.5.3.3 Bit depth
Bitstreams conforming to the H.265/HEVC Full HD Operation Point shall be
encoded with either 8 or 10 bit precision.
\- bit_depth_luma_minus8 = 0 or 2 (8 or 10 bits respectively)
\- bit_depth_chroma_minus8 = bit_depth_luma_minus8
Receivers conforming to the H.265/HEVC Full HD Operation Point shall support 8
bit and10 bit precision.
#### 4.5.3.4 Spatial resolution
The spatial resolution of the distribution format shall be one of the
following:
\- 1920 × 1080,
\- 1600 × 900,
\- 1280 × 720,
\- 960 × 540,
\- 854 × 480,
\- 640 × 360,
\- 426 × 240.
#### 4.5.3.5 Colour information
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC Full HD Operation Point shall use
either Recommendation ITU-R BT.709 [3] colorimetry or Recommendation ITU-R
BT.2020 [4] colorimetry in non-constant luminance.
\- BT.709 [3] shall be signalled by setting colour_primaries to the value 1,
transfer_characteristics to the value 1 and matrix_coeffs to the value 1.
\- If BT.2020 [4] is used,
\- it shall be signalled by setting colour_primaries to the value 9,
transfer_characteristics to the value 14 and matrix_coeffs to the value 9,
\- the chroma_loc_info_present_flag should be equal to 1, and if set the
chroma_sample_loc_type_top_field and chroma_sample_loc_type_bottom_field shall
both be equal to 2.
A Receiver conforming to the H.265/HEVC Full HD Operation Point shall be
capable of decoding Bitstreams that use Recommendation ITU-R BT.709 [3] and
ITU-R BT.2020 [4] colorimetry. Such a Receiver should support ITU-R BT.2020
[4] signalling and provide an appropriate mapping of the signal to the
supported colour space of the device.
NOTE: Colour spaces are not associated to any particular spatial resolution.
#### 4.5.3.6 Frame rates
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC Full HD Operation Point shall have
one of the following frame rates: 24; 25; 30; 50; 60; 24/1.001; 30/1.001;
60/1.001 Hz.
The frame rate may be indicated in the VUI by setting vui_time_scale and
vui_num_units_in_tick.
#### 4.5.3.7 Receiver compatibility
Receivers conforming to the **H.265/HEVC Full HD** Operation Point shall
support decoding and displaying **H.265/HEVC 720p HD** and **H.265/HEVC Full
HD** Bitstreams.
NOTE: The requirement infers that the Receivers conforming to the **H.265/HEVC
Full HD** support Main and Main10 Profile.
#### 4.5.3.8 SEI messages for HLG Signaling
If ITU-R BT.2020 is used and signalled as defined in clause 4.5.3.5, then the
Bitstream may contain the alternative_transfer_characteristics SEI message to
signal the use of HLG transfer characteristic. If present, the
alternative_transfer_characteristics SEI message shall be inserted at each
RAP, and its parameter preferred_transfer_characteristics shall be set to the
value 18.
### 4.5.4 H.265/HEVC UHD Operation Point
#### 4.5.4.1 Introduction
The following restrictions apply for the **H.265/HEVC UHD** Operation Point.
The general requirements and recommendations for Bitstreams and Receivers for
H.265/HEVC Operation Points in clause 4.5.1 shall apply.
#### 4.5.4.2 Profile, tier and level
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC UHD Operation Point shall comply with
the following restrictions:
\- The general_profile_idc shall be set to 2 indicating the Main-10 profile.
\- The general_tier_flag shall be set to 0 indicating the Main tier.
\- The value of level_idc shall not be greater than 153 (corresponding to the
Level 5.1) and should indicate the lowest level to which the Bitstream
conforms.
#### 4.5.4.3 Bit depth
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC UHD Operation Point shall be encoded
with 10 bits precision.
\- bit_depth_luma_minus8 = 2
\- bit_depth_chroma_minus8 = bit_depth_luma_minus8
Receivers conforming to the H.265/HEVC UHD Operation Point shall support 10
bits precision.
#### 4.5.4.4 Spatial resolution
The spatial resolution of the distribution format shall be one of the
following:
\- 3840 × 2160,
\- 3200 × 1800,
\- 2560 × 1440,
\- 1920 × 1080,
\- 1600 × 900,
\- 1280 × 720,
\- 960 × 540,
\- 854 × 480,
\- 640 × 360,
\- 426 × 240.
#### 4.5.4.5 Colour information
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC UHD Operation Point shall use
Recommendation ITU-R BT.2020 [4] colorimetry in non-constant luminance.
\- if BT.2020 [4] is used,
\- it shall be signalled by setting colour_primaries to the value 9,
transfer_characteristics to the value 14 and matrix_coeffs to the value 9,
\- the chroma_loc_info_present_flag should be equal to 1, and if set, the
chroma_sample_loc_type_top_field and chroma_sample_loc_type_bottom_field shall
both be equal to 2.
A Receiver conforming to the H.265/HEVC UHD Operation Point shall be capable
of decoding Bitstreams that use ITU-R BT.2020 [4] colorimetry. Such a Receiver
should support ITU-R BT.2020 [4] signalling and provide an appropriate mapping
of the signal to the supported colour space of the device.
#### 4.5.4.6 Frame rates
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC UHD Operation Point shall have one of
the following frame rates: 24; 25; 30; 50; 60; 24/1.001; 30/1.001; 60/1.001
Hz.
The frame rate may be indicated in the VUI by setting vui_time_scale and
vui_num_units_in_tick.
#### 4.5.4.7 Receiver compatibility
Receivers conforming to the **H.265/HEVC UHD** Operation Point shall support
decoding and displaying **H.265/HEVC 720p HD** , **H.265/HEVC Full HD** and
**H.265/HEVC UHD** Bitstreams.
NOTE: The requirement infers that the Receivers conforming to the **H.265/HEVC
UHD** support Main and Main-10 Profile.
#### 4.5.4.8 SEI messages for HLG Signaling
If ITU-R BT.2020 is used and signalled as defined in clause 4.5.4.5, then the
Bitstream may contain the alternative_transfer_characteristics SEI message to
signal the use of HLG transfer characteristic. If present, the
alternative_transfer_characteristics SEI message shall be inserted at each
RAP, and its parameter preferred_transfer_characteristics shall be set to the
value 18.
### 4.5.5 H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR Operation Point
#### 4.5.5.1 Introduction
The following restrictions apply for the **H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR** Operation
Point. The general requirements and recommendations for Bitstreams and
Receivers for H.265/HEVC Operation Points in clause 4.5.1 shall apply.
#### 4.5.5.2 Profile, tier and level
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR Operation Point shall
comply with the following restrictions:
\- The general_profile_idc shall be set to 2 indicating the Main-10 profile.
\- The general_tier_flag shall be set to 0 indicating the Main tier.
\- The value of level_idc shall not be greater than 123 (corresponding to the
Level 4.1) and should indicate the lowest level to which the Bitstream
conforms.
#### 4.5.5.3 Bit depth
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR Operation Point shall be
encoded with 10 bits precision.
\- bit_depth_luma_minus8 = 2
\- bit_depth_chroma_minus8 = bit_depth_luma_minus8
Receivers conforming to the H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR Operation Point shall
support 10 bits precision.
#### 4.5.5.4 Spatial resolution
The spatial resolution of the distribution format shall be one of the
following:
\- 1920 × 1080,
\- 1600 × 900,
\- 1280 × 720,
\- 960 × 540,
\- 854 × 480,
\- 640 × 360,
\- 426 × 240.
#### 4.5.5.5 Colour information and HDR transfer characteristics
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR Operation Point that uses
PQ HDR shall comply with the following restrictions in the VUI:
\- colour_primaries shall be set to the value 9,
\- transfer_characteristics shall be set to the value 16,
\- matrix_coeffs shall be set to the value 9,
\- the chroma_loc_info_present_flag should be equal to 1, and if set the
chroma_sample_loc_type_top_field and chroma_sample_loc_type_bottom_field shall
both be equal to 2.
This signalling implies that BT.2020 [4] colorimetry in non-constant luminance
and Perceptual Quantization (PQ) electro-optical transfer function (EOTF) as
defined in Recommendation ITU-R BT.2100 [11] are in use.
#### 4.5.5.6 Frame rates
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR Operation Point shall
have one of the following frame rates: 24; 25; 30; 50; 60; 24/1.001; 30/1.001;
60/1.001 Hz.
The frame rate may be indicated in the VUI by setting vui_time_scale and
vui_num_units_in_tick.
#### 4.5.5.7 SEI messages for metadata signalling
##### 4.5.5.7.1 Introduction
In order to help the display device to adapt the rendering of PQ HDR content,
the Recommendation ITU-T H.265 / ISO/IEC 23008‑2 [6] defines SEI messages for
this purpose. These PQ HDR SEI messages provide indication on the mastering
environment and the brightness limitation characteristics of PQ HDR content.
NOTE: As per the Recommendation ITU-T H.265 / ISO/IEC 23008‑2 [6], SEI
messages are optional and may be ignored by the decoder.
The following clauses describe the restrictions on Mastering display colour
volume and Content light level SEI messages, if present in a bitstream
conforming to H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR Operation point when PQ HDR is used.
##### 4.5.5.7.2 Mastering display colour volume
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR Operation point may
indicate the colour volume of the display used when mastering the video
content. This mastering display colour volume is described by its colour
primaries, white point and luminance range and is signalled in a Mastering
display colour volume SEI message as specified in Recommendation ITU-T H.265 /
ISO/IEC 23008‑2 [6] clause D.3.28.
If the Mastering display colour volume SEI message is present,
display_primaries_x[c], display_primaries_y[c], white_point_x, white_point_y,
max_display_mastering_luminance, and min_display_mastering_luminance should be
set to a value that is not 0\. If a value is set to 0, it means that the value
of this field is unknown.
NOTE 1: The lowest value for a known min_display_mastering_luminance that can
be signalled is 1 (which is equivalent to 0.0001 candelas per square metre).
NOTE 2: In accordance to the HEVC specification, if
max_display_mastering_luminance is set to 0, then
min_display_mastering_luminance is set to 0 as well.
According to ITU-T H.265 / ISO/IEC 23008‑2 [6] clause D.3.28, when a Mastering
display colour volume SEI message is present for any picture of a coded video
sequence (CVS), a Mastering display colour volume SEI message is present for
the first picture of the CVS. The Mastering display colour volume SEI message
persists from the current picture until the end of the CVS. All Mastering
display colour volume SEI messages that apply to the same CVS have the same
content.
##### 4.5.5.7.3 Content light level information
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR Operation point may
indicate the upper bound on the maximum light level among all individual
pictures and the upper bound on the maximum average light level for any
individual picture of a video content that are signalled in a Content light
level SEI message as specified in Recommendation ITU-T H.265 / ISO/IEC 23008‑2
[6] clause D.3.35.
If the Content light level SEI message is present, max_content_light_level and
max_pic_average_light_level should be set to values that are not 0. If a value
is set to 0 it means that the value of this field is unknown.
When a Content light level information SEI message is present for any picture
of a CVS, a content light level information SEI message shall be present for
the first picture of the CVS. The content light level information SEI message
message persists from the current picture until the end of the CVS. All
content light level information SEI messages that apply to the same CVS shall
have the same content.
#### 4.5.5.8 Receiver compatibility
Receivers conforming to the **H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR** Operation Point shall
support decoding and processing **H.265/HEVC 720p HD** , **H.265/HEVC Full
HD** and **H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR** Bitstreams.
Receivers conforming to the **H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR** Operation Point should
support processing the SEI messages defined in clause 4.5.5.7.
#### 4.5.5.9 HD HDR Operating Modes
HD HDR services may be defined with lower spatial and temporal resolutions
than full HD at 60fps. The following operating modes are defined accordingly:
\- **HEVC/H.265 HDR 720p HD30** mode: Spatial resolutions do not exceed
(1280x720) and frame rate does not exceed 30fps.
\- **HEVC/H.265 HDR 720p HD60** mode: Spatial resolutions do not exceed
(1280x720), frame rate exceeds 30fps.
\- **HEVC/H.265 HDR Full HD30** mode: Spatial resolutions exceed the
HEVC/H.265 HDR 720p HD mode, but do not exceed (1920x1080). Frame rate does
not exceed 30fps.
\- **HEVC/H.265 HDR Full HD60** mode: Spatial resolutions exceed the
HEVC/H.265 HDR 720p HD mode, but do not exceed (1920x1080). Frame rate exceeds
30fps.
### 4.5.6 H.265/HEVC UHD HDR Operation Point
#### 4.5.6.1 Introduction
The following restrictions apply for the **H.265/HEVC UHD HDR** Operation
Point. The general requirements and recommendations for Bitstreams and
Receivers for H.265/HEVC Operation Points in clause 4.5.1 shall apply.
#### 4.5.6.2 Profile, tier and level
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC UHD HDR Operation Point shall comply
with the following restrictions:
\- The general_profile_idc shall be set to 2 indicating the Main-10 profile.
\- The general_tier_flag shall be set to 0 indicating the Main tier.
\- The value of level_idc shall not be greater than 153 (corresponding to the
Level 5.1) and should indicate the lowest level to which the Bitstream
conforms.
#### 4.5.6.3 Bit depth
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC UHD HDR Operation Point shall be
encoded with 10 bits precision.
\- bit_depth_luma_minus8 = 2
\- bit_depth_chroma_minus8 = bit_depth_luma_minus8
Receivers conforming to the H.265/HEVC UHD HDR Operation Point shall support
10 bits precision.
#### 4.5.6.4 Spatial resolution
The spatial resolution of the distribution format shall be one of the
following:
\- 3840 × 2160,
\- 3200 × 1800,
\- 2560 × 1440,
\- 1920 × 1080,
\- 1600 × 900,
\- 1280 × 720,
\- 960 × 540,
\- 854 × 480,
\- 640 × 360,
\- 426 × 240.
#### 4.5.6.5 Colour information and HDR transfer characteristics
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC UHD HDR Operation Point that uses PQ
HDR shall comply with the following restrictions in the VUI:
\- colour_primaries shall be set to the value 9,
\- transfer_characteristics shall be set to the value 16,
\- matrix_coeffs shall be set to the value 9,
\- the chroma_loc_info_present_flag should be equal to 1, and if set the
chroma_sample_loc_type_top_field and chroma_sample_loc_type_bottom_field shall
both be equal to 2.
This signalling implies that Recommendation BT.2020 [4] colorimetry in non-
constant luminance and Perceptual Quantization (PQ) electro-optical transfer
function (EOTF) as defined in Recommendation ITU-R BT.2100 [11] are in use.
#### 4.5.6.6 Frame rates
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC UHD HDR Operation Point shall have
one of the following frame rates: 24; 25; 30; 50; 60; 24/1.001; 30/1.001;
60/1.001 Hz.
The frame rate may be indicated in the VUI by setting vui_time_scale and
vui_num_units_in_tick.
#### 4.5.6.7 SEI messages for metadata signalling
##### 4.5.6.7.1 Introduction
In order to help the display device to adapt the rendering of PQ HDR content,
the Recommendation ITU-T H.265 / ISO/IEC 23008‑2 [6] defines SEI messages for
this purpose. These PQ HDR SEI messages provide indication on the mastering
environment and the brightness limitation characteristics of PQ HDR content.
NOTE: As per the Recommendation ITU-T H.265 / ISO/IEC 23008‑2 [6], SEI
messages are optional and may be ignored by the decoder.
The following clauses describe the restrictions on Mastering display colour
volume and Content light level SEI messages, if present in a bitstream
conforming to H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR Operation point.
##### 4.5.6.7.2 Mastering display colour volume
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC UHD HDR Operation point may indicate
the colour volume of the display used when mastering the video content. This
mastering display colour volume is described by its colour primaries, white
point and luminance range and is signalled in a Mastering display colour
volume SEI message as specified in Recommendation ITU-T H.265 / ISO/IEC
23008‑2 [6] clause D.3.28.
If the Mastering display colour volume SEI message is present,
display_primaries_x[c], display_primaries_y[c], white_point_x, white_point_y,
max_display_mastering_luminance, and min_display_mastering_luminance should be
set to a value that is not 0\. If a value is set to 0, it means that the value
of this field is unknown.
NOTE 1: The lowest value for a known min_display_mastering_luminance that can
be signalled is 1 (which is equivalent to 0.0001 candelas per square metre).
NOTE 2: In accordance to the HEVC specification, if
max_display_mastering_luminance is set to 0, then
min_display_mastering_luminance is set to 0 as well.
According to ITU-T H.265 / ISO/IEC 23008‑2 [6] clause D.3.28, when a Mastering
display colour volume SEI message is present for any picture of a coded video
sequence (CVS), a Mastering display colour volume SEI message is present for
the first picture of the CVS. The Mastering display colour volume SEI message
persists from the current picture until the end of the CVS. All Mastering
display colour volume SEI messages that apply to the same CVS have the same
content.
##### 4.5.6.7.3 Content light level information
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC UHD HDR Operation point may indicate
the upper bound on the maximum light level among all individual pictures and
the upper bound on the maximum average light level for any individual picture
of a video content that are signalled in a Content light level SEI message as
specified in Recommendation ITU-T H.265 / ISO/IEC 23008‑2 [6] clause D.3.35.
If the Content light level SEI message is present, max_content_light_level and
max_pic_average_light_level should be set to values that are not 0.
If a value is set to 0 it means that the value of this field is unknown.
When a content light level information SEI message is present for any picture
of a CVS, a content light level information SEI message shall be present for
the first picture of the CVS. The content light level information SEI message
message persists from the current picture until the end of the CVS. All
content light level information SEI messages that apply to the same CVS shall
have the same content.
#### 4.5.6.8 Receiver compatibility
Receivers conforming to the **H.265/HEVC UHD HDR** Operation Point shall
support decoding and processing **H.265/HEVC 720p HD** , **H.265/HEVC Full
HD** , **H.265/HEVC UHD, H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR** and **H.265/HEVC UHD HDR**
Bitstreams.
Receivers conforming to the **H.265/HEVC UHD HDR** Operation Point should
support processing the optional SEI messages defined in clause 4.5.6.7.
#### 4.5.6.9 UHD HDR operating modes
UHD HDR services may be defined with a lower temporal resolution than 60fps.
The following additional operating modes beyond those defined for HEVC Full HD
HDR Operation point in clause 4.5.5.9 are defined accordingly:
**\- HEVC/H.265 HDR UHD30** mode: Spatial resolutions exceed the HEVC/H.265
HDR Full HD mode, but do not exceed (3840x2160). Frame rate does not exceed
30fps.
**\- HEVC/H.265 HDR UHD60** mode: Spatial resolutions exceed the HEVC/H.265
HDR Full HD mode, but do not exceed (3840x2160). Frame rate exceeds 30fps.
### 4.5.7 H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR HLG Operation Point
#### 4.5.7.1 Introduction
The following restrictions apply for the **H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR HLG**
Operation Point. The general requirements and recommendations for Bitstreams
and Receivers for H.265/HEVC Operation Points in clause 4.5.1 shall apply.
#### 4.5.7.2 Profile, tier and level
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR HLG Operation Point shall
comply with the following restrictions:
\- The general_profile_idc shall be set to 2 indicating the Main-10 profile.
\- The general_tier_flag shall be set to 0 indicating the Main tier.
\- The value of level_idc shall not be greater than 123 (corresponding to the
Level 4.1) and should indicate the lowest level to which the Bitstream
conforms.
#### 4.5.7.3 Bit depth
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR HLG Operation Point shall
be encoded with 10 bits precision.
\- bit_depth_luma_minus8 = 2
\- bit_depth_chroma_minus8 = bit_depth_luma_minus8
Receivers conforming to the H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR HLG Operation Point shall
support 10 bits precision.
#### 4.5.7.4 Spatial resolution
The spatial resolution of the distribution format shall be one of the
following:
\- 1920 × 1080,
\- 1600 × 900,
\- 1280 × 720,
\- 960 × 540,
\- 854 × 480,
\- 640 × 360,
\- 426 × 240.
#### 4.5.7.5 Colour information and HDR transfer characteristics
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR HLG Operation Point shall
comply with the following restrictions in the VUI:
\- colour_primaries shall be set to the value 9,
\- transfer_characteristics shall be set to either the value 18, or to the
value 14. In the latter case, the Bitstream shall also contain the
alternative_transfer_characteristics SEI message. The
alternative_transfer_characteristics SEI message shall be inserted at each
RAP, and its parameter preferred_transfer_characteristics shall be set to the
value 18.
\- matrix_coeffs shall be set to the value 9,
\- the chroma_loc_info_present_flag should be equal to 1, and if set the
chroma_sample_loc_type_top_field and chroma_sample_loc_type_bottom_field shall
both be equal to 2.
This signalling implies that BT.2020 [4] colorimetry in non-constant luminance
and Hybrid Log Gamma (HLG) opto-electronic transfer function (OETF) as defined
in Recommendation ITU-R BT.2100 [11] are in use.
#### 4.5.7.6 Frame rates
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR HLG Operation Point shall
have one of the following frame rates: 24; 25; 30; 50; 60; 24/1.001; 30/1.001;
60/1.001 Hz.
The frame rate may be indicated in the VUI by setting vui_time_scale and
vui_num_units_in_tick.
#### 4.5.7.7 Receiver compatibility
Receivers conforming to the **H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR HLG** Operation Point
shall support decoding and processing **H.265/HEVC 720p HD** , **H.265/HEVC
Full HD** and **H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR HLG** Bitstreams.
#### 4.5.7.8 HD HDR Operating Modes
HD HDR HLG services may be defined with lower spatial and temporal resolutions
than full HD at 60fps. The following operating modes are defined accordingly:
\- **HEVC/H.265 HDR HLG 720p HD30** mode: Spatial resolutions do not exceed
(1280x720) and frame rate does not exceed 30fps.
\- **HEVC/H.265 HDR HLG 720p HD60** mode: Spatial resolutions do not exceed
(1280x720), frame rate exceeds 30fps.
\- **HEVC/H.265 HDR HLG Full HD30** mode: Spatial resolutions exceed the
HEVC/H.265 HDR HLG 720p HD mode, but do not exceed (1920x1080). Frame rate
does not exceed 30fps.
\- **HEVC/H.265 HDR HLG Full HD60** mode: Spatial resolutions exceed the
HEVC/H.265 HDR HLG 720p HD mode, but do not exceed (1920x1080). Frame rate
exceeds 30fps.
### 4.5.8 H.265/HEVC UHD HDR HLG Operation Point
#### 4.5.8.1 Introduction
The following restrictions apply for the **H.265/HEVC UHD HDR HLG** Operation
Point. The general requirements and recommendations for Bitstreams and
Receivers for H.265/HEVC Operation Points in clause 4.5.1 shall apply.
#### 4.5.8.2 Profile, tier and level
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC UHD HDR HLG Operation Point shall
comply with the following restrictions:
\- The general_profile_idc shall be set to 2 indicating the Main-10 profile.
\- The general_tier_flag shall be set to 0 indicating the Main tier.
\- The value of level_idc shall not be greater than 153 (corresponding to the
Level 5.1) and should indicate the lowest level to which the Bitstream
conforms.
#### 4.5.8.3 Bit depth
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC UHD HDR HLG Operation Point shall be
encoded with 10 bits precision.
\- bit_depth_luma_minus8 = 2
\- bit_depth_chroma_minus8 = bit_depth_luma_minus8
Receivers conforming to the H.265/HEVC UHD HDR HLG Operation Point shall
support 10 bits precision.
#### 4.5.8.4 Spatial resolution
The spatial resolution of the distribution format shall be one of the
following:
\- 3840 × 2160,
\- 3200 × 1800,
\- 2560 × 1440,
\- 1920 × 1080,
\- 1600 × 900,
\- 1280 × 720,
\- 960 × 540,
\- 854 × 480,
\- 640 × 360,
\- 426 × 240.
#### 4.5.8.5 Colour information and HDR transfer characteristics
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC UHD HDR HLG Operation Point shall
comply with the following restrictions in the VUI:
\- colour_primaries shall be set to the value 9,
\- transfer_characteristics shall be set to either the value 18, or to the
value 14. In the latter case, the Bitstream shall also contain the
alternative_transfer_characteristics SEI message. The
alternative_transfer_characteristics SEI message shall be inserted at each
RAP, and its parameter preferred_transfer_characteristics shall be set to the
value 18.
\- matrix_coeffs shall be set to the value 9,
\- the chroma_loc_info_present_flag should be equal to 1, and if set the
chroma_sample_loc_type_top_field and chroma_sample_loc_type_bottom_field shall
both be equal to 2.
This signalling implies that Recommendation BT.2020 [4] colorimetry in non-
constant luminance and Hybrid Log Gamma (HLG) opto-electronic transfer
function (OETF) as defined in Recommendation ITU-R BT.2100 [11] are in use.
#### 4.5.8.6 Frame rates
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC UHD HDR HLG Operation Point shall
have one of the following frame rates: 24; 25; 30; 50; 60; 24/1.001; 30/1.001;
60/1.001 Hz.
The frame rate may be indicated in the VUI by setting vui_time_scale and
vui_num_units_in_tick.
#### 4.5.8.7 Receiver compatibility
Receivers conforming to the **H.265/HEVC UHD HDR HLG** Operation Point shall
support decoding and processing **H.265/HEVC 720p HD** , **H.265/HEVC Full
HD** , **H.265/HEVC UHD, H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR HLG** and **H.265/HEVC UHD HDR
HLG** Bitstreams.
#### 4.5.8.8 UHD HDR HLG operating modes
UHD HDR HLG services may be defined with a lower temporal resolution than
60fps. The following additional operating modes beyond those defined for HEVC
Full HD HDR HLG Operation point in clause 4.5.7.9 are defined accordingly:
**\- HEVC/H.265 HDR HLG UHD30** mode: Spatial resolutions exceed the
HEVC/H.265 HDR HLG Full HD mode, but do not exceed (3840x2160). Frame rate
does not exceed 30fps.
**\- HEVC/H.265 HDR HLG UHD60** mode: Spatial resolutions exceed the
HEVC/H.265 HDR HLG Full HD mode, but do not exceed (3840x2160). Frame rate
exceeds 30fps.
### 4.5.9 H.265/HEVC 8K UHD Operation Point
#### 4.5.9.1 Introduction
An 8K UHD H.265/HEVC Operation Point is introduced that includes three options
for the transfer characterics: SDR, HDR PQ and HDR HLG. It is considered that
receivers that support 10-bit decoding are all capable of handling any of the
three transfer characteristics.
The general requirements and recommendations for Bitstreams and Receivers for
H.265/HEVC Operation Points in clause 4.5.1 as well as the additional
restrictions documented in this clause 4.5.9 shall apply for the **H.265/HEVC
8K** **UHD** Operation Point.
#### 4.5.9.2 Profile, tier and level
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC 8K UHD Operation Point shall comply
with the following restrictions:
\- The general_profile_idc shall be set to 2 indicating the Main-10 profile.
\- The general_tier_flag shall be set to 0 indicating the Main tier.
\- The value of level_idc shall not be greater than 183 (corresponding to the
Level 6.1) and should indicate the lowest level to which the Bitstream
conforms.
#### 4.5.9.3 Bit depth
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC 8K UHD Operation Point shall be
encoded with 10 bits precision, i.e. the fields shall be set as follows
\- bit_depth_luma_minus8 = 2
\- bit_depth_chroma_minus8 = bit_depth_luma_minus8
Receivers conforming to the H.265/HEVC 8K UHD Operation Point shall support 10
bit precision.
#### 4.5.9.4 Spatial resolution
The spatial resolution of the distribution format shall be one of the
following:
\- 7680 × 4320,
\- 5120 × 2880,
\- 3840 × 2160,
\- 3200 × 1800,
\- 2560 × 1440,
\- 1920 × 1080,
\- 1600 × 900,
\- 1280 × 720,
\- 960 × 540,
\- 854 × 480.
#### 4.5.9.5 Colour information and HDR transfer characteristics
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC 8K UHD Operation Point shall comply
with the following restrictions in the VUI:
\- colour_primaries shall be set to the value 9,
\- transfer_characteristics shall be set to one of the following values
\- 14 for SDR,
\- 16 for HDR PQ,
\- 18 for HDR HLG,
\- matrix_coeffs shall be set to the value 9,
\- the chroma_loc_info_present_flag shall be equal to 1, and if set the
chroma_sample_loc_type_top_field and chroma_sample_loc_type_bottom_field shall
both be equal to 2.
For transfer_characteristics set to 16, it implies that Recommendation BT.2020
[4] colorimetry in non-constant luminance and Perceptual Quantization (PQ)
electro-optical transfer function (EOTF) as defined in Recommendation ITU-R
BT.2100 [11] are in use.
For transfer_characteristics set to 18, it implies that Recommendation BT.2020
[4] colorimetry in non-constant luminance and Hybrid Log Gamma (HLG) opto-
electronic transfer function (OETF) as defined in Recommendation ITU-R BT.2100
[11] are in use.
#### 4.5.9.6 Frame rates
A Bitstream conforming to the H.265/HEVC 8K UHD Operation Point shall have one
of the following frame rates: 24; 25; 30; 50; 60; 24/1.001; 30/1.001; 60/1.001
Hz.
The frame rate may be indicated in the VUI by setting vui_time_scale and
vui_num_units_in_tick.
#### 4.5.9.7 SEI messages for metadata signalling
If HDR PQ is in use, then the same requirements and recommendations on SEI
messages as defined in clause 4.5.6.7 apply.
#### 4.5.9.8 Receiver compatibility
Receivers conforming to the **H.265/HEVC 8K UHD** Operation Point shall
support decoding and processing
> \- H.265/HEVC 720p HD,
>
> \- H.265/HEVC Full HD,
>
> \- H.265/HEVC UHD,
>
> \- H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR,
>
> \- H.265/HEVC UHD HDR,
>
> \- HEVC/H.265 Full HD HDR HLG,
>
> \- H.265/HEVC UHD HDR HLG, and
>
> \- H.265/HEVC 8K UHD Bitstreams.
Receivers conforming to the **H.265/HEVC 8K** **UHD** Operation Point should
support processing the optional SEI messages defined in clause 4.5.9.7.
# 5 Mapping to 3GP-DASH delivery
## 5.1 General
### 5.1.1 MPD and 3GP-DASH format
The MPD shall conform to the 3GP-DASH format [8] with the constraints defined
in clause 5.1.3. The MPD may signal the appropriate profiles parameter as
defined below in the **MPD** \@profiles attribute.
For the delivery as part of 5G Media Downlink Streaming, in addition to the
requirements in this clause 5, also the requirements in TS 26.247 [8], clause
7.3.11, for the 5G Media Streaming DASH Interoperability Point and the
requirements in TS 26.511 [12], clause 5.4 for the TV Video profile apply.
### 5.1.2 File Format Signalling
Representations used in the context of the specification shall conform to the
3GP File Format [7] and the 3GP-DASH Segment format [8] with the following
further requirements:
\- The \'3gtv\' ISO brand shall be set as a compatible_brand in the File Type
Box (\'ftyp\').
\- The value of the duration field in the Movie Header Box (\'mvhd\') shall be
set to a value of \'0\'
\- The Track Header Box (\'tkhd\') shall obey the following constraints:
\- The value of the duration field shall be set to \'0\'.
\- The width and height fields for a visual track shall specify the track\'s
visual presentation size as fixed-point 16.16 values expressed in on a
uniformly sampled grid (commonly called square pixels)
\- The Media Header Box (\'mdhd\') shall obey the following constraints:
\- The value of the duration field shall be set to \'0\'.
\- The Video Media Header (\'vmhd\') shall obey the following constraints:
\- The value of the version field shall be set to \'0\'.
\- The value of the graphicsmode field shall be set to \'0\'.
\- The value of the opcolor field shall be set to {\'0\', \'0\', \'0\'}.
\- The Sample Description Box (\'stsd\') shall obey the following constraints:
\- A visual sample entry shall be used.
\- The box shall include a NAL Structured Video Parameter Set.
\- the maximum width and height values shall correspond to the maximum cropped
horizontal and vertical sample counts indicated in any Sequence Parameter Set
in the track.
\- It shall contain a Decoder Configuration Record which signals the Profile,
Level, and other parameters in the video track.
\- The entry_count field of the Sample-to-Chunk Box (\'stsc\') shall be set to
\'0\'.
\- Both the sample_size and sample_count fields of the Sample Size Box
(\'stsz\') box shall be set to zero (\'0\'). The sample_count field of the
Sample Size Box (\'stz2\') box shall be set to zero (\'0\'). The actual sample
size information can be found in the Track Fragment Run Box (\'trun\') for the
track.
Note: This is because the Movie Box (\'moov\') contains no media samples.
\- The entry_count field of the Chunk Offset Box (\'stco\') shall be set to
\'0\'.
\- Movie Fragment Header Boxes (\'mfhd\') shall contain sequence_number values
that are sequentially numbered starting with the number 1 and incrementing by
+1, sequenced by movie fragment storage and presentation order.
\- Any Segment Index Box (\'sidx\'), if present, shall obey the additional
constraints:
\- the timescale field shall have the same value as the timescale field in the
Media Header Box (\'mdhd\') within the same track; and
\- the reference_ID field shall be set to the track_ID of the ISO Media track
as defined in the Track Header Box (\'tkhd\').
\- For AVCSampleEntry (\'avc3\') and HEVCSampleEntry (\'hev1\') NAL Structured
Video tracks, the \'first_sample_flags\' shall signal the picture type of the
first sample in each movie fragment as specified below.
\- sample_is_non_sync_sample=0: If the first sample is a sync sample.
\- sample_is_non_sync_sample=1: If the first sample is not a sync sample.
\- sample_depends_on=2: If the first sample is an I frame.
\- The Colour Information Box (\'colr\') should be present. If present, it
shall signal the colour_primaries, transfer_characteristics and matrix_coeffs
applicable to all the bitstreams associated with this sample entry.
\- The sample timing shall obey the frame rate requirements for each Operation
Point.
For a video track conforming to these above constraints to also conform to a
video CMAF track according to ISO/IEC 23000-19 [13], at least the following
additional constraints apply:
\- The field matrix is set to its default values as defined in ISO/IEC
14496-12, except to indicate video orientation
\- The Sync Sample Box (\'stss\') has an entry_count of zero if present
\- If Segment Index Boxes (\'sidx\') exists
\- the timescale field has the same value as the timescale field in the Media
Header Box (\'mdhd\') within the same track; and
\- the reference_ID field is set to the track_ID of the ISO Media track as
defined in the Track Header Box (\'tkhd\').
For a track that conforms to the CMAF track constraints according to ISO/IEC
23000-19 [13] to also conform to the the 3GPP profile as defined in this
specification, at least the following additional constraints apply:
\- The value of the duration field in the Movie Header Box ('mvhd') is set to
a value of \'0\'.
\- The value of the duration field in the Media Header Box (\'mdhd\') is set
to \'0\'.
\- A NAL Structured Video Parameter Set is present in the Sample Description
Box (\'stsd\').
\- Movie Fragment Header Boxes (\'mfhd\') contain sequence_number values that
are sequentially numbered starting with the number 1 and incrementing by +1,
sequenced by movie fragment storage and presentation order.
\- If Segment Index Boxes (\'sidx\') exist, each subsegment referenced in the
SegmentIndexBox is a single CMAF fragment contained in the CMAF track file.
### 5.1.3 Adaptation Set Constraints
For a video Adaptation Set, the following constraints apply:
\- The \@codecs parameter shall be present on Adaptation Set level and shall
signal the maximum required capability to decode any Representation in the
Adaptation Set. The \@codecs parameter should be signalled on the
representation level if different from the one on Adaptation Set level.
\- The \@profiles parameter may be present to signal the constraints for the
Adaptation Set.
\- The attributes \@maxWidth and \@maxHeight shall be present. They are
expected be used to signal the original source content format. This means that
they may exceed the actual largest size of any coded Representation in one
Adaptation Set. More details for each Operation Point are provided.
\- The \@width and \@height shall be signalled for each Representation
(possibly defaulted on Adaptation Set level) and shall match the values of the
maximum width and height in the Sample Description box of the contained
Representation.
\- The Chroma Format may be signalled. If signalled:
\- An Essential or Supplemental Descriptor shall be used to signal the value
by setting the \@schemeIdURI attribute to
urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:MatrixCoefficients as defined ISO/IEC 23091-2 [10] and the
\@value attribute according to Table 4 of ISO/IEC 23091-2 [10]. The values
shall match the values set in the VUI.
\- The signalling shall be on Adaptation Set level.
\- The Color Primaries and Transfer Function shall be signalled unless ITU-R
BT.709 is used. If signalled:
\- An Essential or Supplemental Descriptor shall be used to signal the value
by setting the \@schemeIdURI attribute to urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:ColourPrimaries
and urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:TransferCharacteristics as defined ISO/IEC 23091-2
[10] and the \@value attribute according to Table 4 of ISO/IEC 23091-2 [10].
The values shall match the values set in the VUI.
\- The signalling shall be on Adaptation Set level only, i.e. the value shall
not be different for different Representations in one Adaptation Set.
\- The maximum frame rate may be signalled on Adaptation Set using the
\@maxFrameRate attribute.
\- The \@frameRate shall be signalled for each Representation (possibly
defaulted on Adaptation Set level). In one Adaptation Set, only frame rates
shall be present from one of the following subsets:
\- 24 Hz with proposed signalling \@frameRate=\"24\"
\- 25 Hz, 50 Hz with proposed signalling \@frameRate=\"25\" or
\@frameRate=\"50\",
\- 30 Hz, 60 Hz with proposed signalling \@frameRate=\"30\" or
\@frameRate=\"60\",
\- 24/1.001 Hz with proposed signalling \@frameRate=\"24000/1001\",
\- 30/1.001 Hz, 60/1.001 Hz with proposed signalling
\@frameRate=\"30000/1001\" or \@frameRate=\"60000/1001\".
\- Random Access Points shall be signalled by \@startsWithSAP set to 1, 2 or
3.
## 5.2 H.264/AVC 720p HD Operation Point
### 5.2.1 Operation Point Identifier
If all Representations in an Adaptation Set conforms to the elementary stream
constraints for the **H.264/AVC 720p HD** Operation Point as defined in clause
4.4.2 and the Adaptation Set conforms to the MPD signalling according to
clause 5.2.2 and 5.2.4, and the Representations conform to the file format
constraints in clause 5.2.3, then the \@profiles parameter in the Adaptation
Set may signal conformance to this Operation Point by using
\"urn:3GPP:video:op:h264-720p-HD\".
### 5.2.2 MPD Signalling
The requirements as defined in clause 5.1.2 shall apply. In addition, the
conditions in 5.2.4 shall apply.
### 5.2.3 File Format Constraints
For Representations conforming to the **H.264/AVC 720p HD** Operation Point
the following requirements apply.
The requirements as defined in clause 5.1.2 shall apply. In addition, the
following shall apply.
The syntax and values for visual sample entry shall be set as follows:
\- It shall conform to AVCSampleEntry (\'avc1\') or AVCSampleEntry (\'avc3\')
as defined in ISO/IEC 14496-15 [9].
\- If AVCSampleEntry (\'avc3\') is used the following requirements apply:
\- If the sample is a Sync Sample, all parameter sets needed for decoding that
sample SHALL be included in the sample itself.
\- If the sample is at the start of a Segment or a Subsegment, (i.e. a random
access point position) that is not a Sync Sample, all parameter sets needed
for decoding that sample shall occur in one of the samples between the
starting point and that sample inclusive.
\- The video track shall be encoded using the requirements and recommendations
for H.264/AVC 720p HD Operation Point as defined in clause 4.4.2.
### 5.2.4 Adaptation Set Constraints
The requirements as defined in clause 5.1.3 shall apply. In addition, the
following shall apply:
\- \@maxWidth shall be set to 1280 and \@maxHeight shall be set to 720.
\- The \@codecs parameter shall be set to avc1.64Y01F or avc3.64Y01F,
\- \@width and \@height for Representations shall be set to one of the
following pairs: (1280, 720), (960, 540), (854, 480), (640, 360), or (426,
240).
\- \@frameRate shall be set to one of the following values: \"24\", \"25\",
\"30\", \"24000/1001\", or \"30000/1001\".
## 5.3 H.264/AVC Full HD Operation Point
### 5.3.1 Operation Point Identifier
If all Representations in an Adaptation Set conforms to the elementary stream
constraints for the **H.264/AVC Full HD** Operation Point as defined in clause
4.4.3 and the Adaptation Set conforms to the MPD signalling according to
clause 5.3.2 and 5.3.4, and the Representations conform to the file format
constraints in clause 5.3.3, then the \@profiles parameter in the Adaptation
Set may signal conformance to this Operation Point by using
\"urn:3GPP:video:op:h264-Full-HD\".
### 5.3.2 MPD Signalling
The requirements as defined in clause 5.1.1 shall apply. In addition, the
conditions in 5.3.4 shall apply.
### 5.3.3 File Format Signalling
For Representations conforming to the **H.264/AVC Full HD** Operation Point
the following requirements apply.
The requirements as defined in clause 5.2.3 shall apply. In addition, the
video track shall be encoded using the requirements and recommendations for
H.264/AVC Full HD Operation Point as defined in clause 4.4.3.
### 5.3.4 Adaptation Set Constraints
The requirements as defined in clause 5.1.3 shall apply. In addition, the
following shall apply:
\- \@maxWidth and \@maxHeight shall be set to one of the following pairs:
(1920,1080), (1280,720)
\- The \@codecs parameter shall be set to avc1.64Y030 or avc3.64Y030,
\- \@width and \@height for Representations shall be set to one of the
following pairs: (1920, 1080), (1600, 900), (1280, 720), (960, 540), (854,
480), (640, 360), or (426, 240).
\- If ITU-R BT.2020 is used, then the Colour Primaries, Transfer
Characteristics and Matrix Coefficients shall be signalled as defined in
clause 5.1.3.
## 5.4 H.265/HEVC 720p HD Operation Point
### 5.4.1 Operation Point Identifier
If all Representations in an Adaptation Set conforms to the elementary stream
constraints for the **H.265/HEVC 720p HD** Operation Point as defined in
clause 4.5.2 and the Adaptation Set conforms to the MPD signalling according
to clause 5.4.2 and 5.4.4, and the Representations conform to the file format
constraints in clause 5.4.3, then the \@profiles parameter in the Adaptation
Set may signal conformance to this Operation Point by using
\"urn:3GPP:video:op:h265-720p-HD\".
### 5.4.2 MPD Signalling
The requirements as defined in clause 5.1.1 shall apply. In addition, the
conditions in 5.4.4 shall apply.
### 5.4.3 File Format Constraints
For Representations conforming to the **H.265/HEVC 720p HD** Operation Point
the following requirements apply.
The requirements as defined in clause 5.1.3 shall apply. In addition, the
following shall apply:
\- It shall conform to HEVCSampleEntry (\'hvc1\') or HEVCSampleEntry
(\'hev1\') as defined in ISO/IEC 14496-15 [9];
\- If HEVCSampleEntry (\'hev1\') is used the following requirements apply:
\- If the sample is a Sync Sample, all parameter sets needed for decoding that
sample shall be included in the sample itself.
\- If the sample is at the start of a Segment or a Subsegment, (i.e. a random
access point position) that is not a Sync Sample, all parameter sets needed
for decoding that sample occur in one of the samples between the starting
point and that sample inclusive.
\- The video track shall be encoded using the requirements and recommendations
for H.265/HEVC 720p HD Operation Point as defined in clause 4.5.2.
### 5.4.4 Adaptation Set Constraints
The requirements as defined in clause 5.1.3 shall apply. In addition, the
following shall apply:
\- \@maxWidth shall be set to 1280 and \@maxHeight shall be set to 720.
\- The \@codecs parameter shall be set to hev1.1.2.L93.B0 or hvc1.1.2.L93.B0,
\- \@width and \@height for Representations shall be set to one of the
following pairs: (1280, 720), (960, 540), (854, 480), (640, 360), or (426,
240).
\- \@frameRate shall be set to one of the following values: \"24\", \"25\",
\"30\", \"24000/1001\", or \"30000/1001\".
## 5.5 H.265/HEVC Full HD Operation Point
### 5.5.1 Operation Point Identifier
If all Representations in an Adaptation Set conforms to the elementary stream
constraints for the **H.265/HEVC Full HD** Operation Point as defined in
clause 4.5.3 and the Adaptation Set conforms to the MPD signalling according
to clause 5.5.2 and 5.5.4, and the Representations conform to the file format
constraints in clause 5.5.3, then the \@profiles parameter in the Adaptation
Set may signal conformance to this Operation Point by using
\"urn:3GPP:video:op:h265-Full-HD\".
### 5.5.2 MPD Signalling
The requirements as defined in clause 5.1.1 shall apply. In addition, the
conditions in 5.5.4 shall apply.
### 5.5.3 File Format Constraints
For Representations conforming to the **H.265/HEVC Full HD** Operation Point
the following requirements apply.
The requirements as defined in clause 5.4.3 shall apply. In addition, the
video track shall be encoded using the requirements and recommendations for
H.265/HEVC Full HD Operation Point as defined in clause 4.5.3.
### 5.5.4 Adaptation Set Constraints
The requirements as defined in clause 5.1.3 shall apply. In addition, the
following shall apply:
\- \@maxWidth and \@maxHeight shall be set to one of the following pairs:
(1920, 1080), (1280, 720).
\- The \@codecs parameter shall be set to hev1.2.4.L123.B0 or
hvc1.2.4.L123.B0,
\- \@width and \@height for Representations shall be set to one of the
following pairs: (1920, 1080), (1600, 900), (1280, 720), (960, 540), (854,
480), (640, 360), or (426, 240).
\- If ITU-R BT.2020 is used, then the Colour Primaries, Transfer
Characteristics and Matrix Coefficients shall be signalled as defined in
clause 5.1.3.
\- \@frameRate shall be set to one of the following values: \"24\", \"25\",
\"30\", \"50\", \"60\", \"24000/1001\", \"30000/1001\" or \"60000/1001\".
If the SEI messages for HLG Signaling as defined in clause 4.5.3.8 is present
in the bitstream, then a Supplemental Descriptor should be present with the
\@schemeIdUri attribute set to urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:TransferCharacteristics as
defined ISO/IEC 23091-2 [10] and the \@value attribute according the
\"Transfer characteristics\" Table of ISO/IEC 23091-2 [10] is set to 18.
## 5.6 H.265/HEVC UHD Operation Point
### 5.6.1 Operation Point Identifier
If all Representations in an Adaptation Set conforms to the elementary stream
constraints for the **H.265/HEVC UHD** Operation Point as defined in clause
4.5.4 and the Adaptation Set conforms to the MPD signalling according to
clause 5.6.2 and 5.6.4, and the Representations conform to the file format
constraints in clause 5.6.3, then the \@profiles parameter in the Adaptation
Set may signal conformance to this Operation Point by using
\"urn:3GPP:video:op:h265-UHD\".
### 5.6.2 MPD Signalling
The requirements as defined in clause 5.1.2 shall apply. In addition, the
conditions in 5.6.3 shall apply.
### 5.6.3 File Format Constraints
For Representations conforming to the **H.265/HEVC UHD** Operation Point the
following requirements apply.
The requirements as defined in clause 5.4.3 shall apply. The video track shall
be encoded using the requirements and recommendations for H.265/HEVC UHD
Operation Point as defined in clause 4.5.4.
### 5.6.4 Adaptation Set Constraint
The requirements as defined in clause 5.1.3 shall apply. In addition, the
following shall apply:
\- \@maxWidth and \@maxHeight shall be set to one of the following pairs:
(3840, 2160), (1920, 1080), (1280, 720).
\- The \@codecs parameter shall be set to hev1.2.4.L153.B0 or
hvc1.2.4.L153.B0.
\- \@width and \@height for Representations shall be set to one of the
following pairs: (3840, 2160), (3200, 1800), (2560, 1440), (1920, 1080),
(1600, 900), (1280, 720), (960, 540), (854, 480), (640, 360), or (426, 240).
\@width and \@height shall not be greater than \@MaxWidth and \@MaxHeight
respectively.
\- \@frameRate shall be set to one of the following values: \"24\", \"25\",
\"30\", \"50\", \"60\", \"24000/1001\", \"30000/1001\" or \"60000/1001\".
\- The Colour Primaries, Transfer Characteristics and Matrix Coefficients
shall be signalled to indicate ITU-R BT.2020 as defined in clause 5.1.3.
If the SEI messages for HLG Signaling as defined in clause 4.5.3.8 is present
in the bitstream, then a Supplemental Descriptor should be present with the
\@schemeIdUri attribute set to urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:TransferCharacteristics as
defined ISO/IEC 23091-2 [10] and the \@value attribute according the
\"Transfer characteristics\" Table of ISO/IEC 23091-2 [10] is set to 18.
## 5.7 H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR Operation Point
### 5.7.1 Operation Point Identifier
If all Representations in an Adaptation Set conforms to the elementary stream
constraints for the **H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR** Operation Point as defined in
clause 4.5.5 and the Adaptation Set conforms to the MPD signalling according
to clause 5.7.2 and 5.7.4, and the Representations conform to the file format
constraints in clause 5.7.3, then the \@profiles parameter in the Adaptation
Set may signal conformance to this Operation Point by using
\"urn:3GPP:video:op:h265-Full-HD-HDR\".
### 5.7.2 MPD Signalling
The requirements as defined in clause 5.1.1 shall apply. In addition, the
conditions in 5.7.4 shall apply.
### 5.7.3 File Format Constraints
For Representations conforming to the **H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR** Operation
Point the following requirements apply.
The requirements as defined in clause 5.4.3 shall apply. The video track shall
be encoded using the requirements and recommendations for H.265/HEVC Full HD
HDR Operation Point as defined in clause 4.5.5.
If sample entry hvc1 is in use, then any possibly present Mastering display
colour volume SEI message or any possibly present Content light level
information SEI message shall be provided in the decoder configuration record
and shall be constant for the entire file.
### 5.7.4 Adaptation Set Constraint
The requirements as defined in clause 5.1.3 shall apply. In addition, the
following shall apply:
\- \@maxWidth and \@maxHeight shall be set to one of the following pairs:
(1920, 1080), (1280, 720).
\- The \@codecs parameter shall be set to one of the values defined in Table
5.1, depending on the operating mode as defined in clause 4.5.5.9, except that
the level indication may indicate a lower level to which all the applicable
Bitstreams conform.
Table 5.1: Codecs parameters for different HD HDR Operating modes
* * *
Operation Modes name Codecs Parameter for hvc1 Codecs Parameter for hev1
HEVC/H.265 HDR 720p HD30 hvc1.2.4.L83.B0 hev1.2.4.L83.B0 HEVC/H.265 HDR 720p
HD60 hvc1.2.4.L93.B0 hev1.2.4.L93.B0 HEVC/H.265 HDR Full HD30 hvc1.2.4.L113.B0
hev1.2.4.L113.B0 HEVC/H.265 HDR Full HD60 hvc1.2.4.L123.B0 hev1.2.4.L123.B0
* * *
\- \@width and \@height for Representations shall be set to one of the
following pairs: (1920, 1080), (1600, 900), (1280, 720), (960, 540), (854,
480), (640, 360), or (426, 240). \@width and \@height shall not be greater
than \@MaxWidth and \@MaxHeight respectively.
\- \@frameRate shall be set to one of the following values: \"24\", \"25\",
\"30\", \"50\", \"60\", \"24000/1001\", \"30000/1001\" or \"60000/1001\".
\- The Colour Primaries, Transfer Characteristics and Matrix Coefficients
shall be signalled to indicate ITU-R BT.2020 and BT.2100 PQ as defined in
clause 5.1.3. In particular, the Essential Descriptors shall be present to
signal BT.2020 and BT.2100 PQ as follows:
> \- an Essential Descriptor shall be used to signal the value by setting the
> \@schemeIdUri attribute to urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:MatrixCoefficients as defined
> ISO/IEC 23091-2 [10] and the \@value attribute according to Table 4 of
> ISO/IEC 23091-2 [10]. The values shall match the values set in the VUI, i.e.
> the value is set to 9.
>
> \- Essential Descriptors shall be used to signal the value by setting the
> \@schemeIdUri attribute to urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:ColourPrimaries and
> urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:TransferCharacteristics, respectively, as defined
> ISO/IEC 23091-2 [10] and the \@value attribute according to the \"Colour
> primaries\" Table and the \"Transfer characteristics\" Table of ISO/IEC
> 23091-2 [10], respectively. The values shall match the values set in the
> VUI, i.e.
>
> \- urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:ColourPrimaries with value set to 9.
>
> \- urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:TransferCharacteristics with value set to 16.
>
> \- The Essential Descriptors, and if applicable the Supplementary
> Descriptor, shall be on Adaptation Set level only, i.e all Representations
> in one Adaptation Set are required to have the same Matrix Coefficients,
> Color Primaries and Transfer Function.
>
> \- If any Representation contains a mastering display colour volume SEI
> message or a content light level information SEI message, the same SEI
> message shall be present in all Representations in the Adaptation Set.
>
> \- For hvc1 this implies that the SEI messages shall be provided in the
> decoder configuration record of every Representation.
>
> \- For hev1, if any of such SEI message is carried inband within a
> segment/subsegment of any Representation of the Adaptation Set, it shall be
> carried with the first picture of that segment/subsegment in decode order in
> all Representations of this Adaptation Set.
## 5.8 H.265/HEVC UHD HDR Operation Point
### 5.8.1 Operation Point Identifier
If all Representations in an Adaptation Set conforms to the elementary stream
constraints for the **H.265/HEVC UHD HDR** Operation Point as defined in
clause 4.5.6 and the Adaptation Set conforms to the MPD signalling according
to clause 5.8.2 and 5.8.4, and the Representations conform to the file format
constraints in clause 5.8.3, then the \@profiles parameter in the Adaptation
Set may signal conformance to this Operation Point by using
\"urn:3GPP:video:op:h265-UHD-HDR\".
### 5.8.2 MPD Signalling
The requirements as defined in clause 5.1.2 shall apply. In addition, the
conditions in 5.8.4 shall apply.
### 5.8.3 File Format Constraints
For Representations conforming to the **H.265/HEVC UHD HDR** Operation Point
the following requirements apply.
The requirements as defined in clause 5.4.3 shall apply. The video track shall
be encoded using the requirements and recommendations for H.265/HEVC UHD HDR
Operation Point as defined in clause 4.5.6.
If sample entry hvc1 is in use, then any possibly present Mastering display
colour volume SEI message or any possibly present Content light level
information SEI message shall be provided in the decoder configuration record
and shall be constant for the entire file.
### 5.8.4 Adaptation Set Constraint
The requirements as defined in clause 5.1.3 shall apply. In addition, the
following shall apply:
\- \@maxWidth shall be set to 3840 and \@maxHeight shall be set to 2160.
\- The \@codecs parameter shall be set to one of the values defined in Table
5.2, depending on the operating mode as defined in clause 4.5.6.9,
Table 5.2: Codecs parameters for different UHD HDR Operating modes
* * *
Operation Modes name Codecs Parameter for hvc1 Codecs Parameter for hev1
HEVC/H.265 HDR UHD30 hvc1.2.4.L143.B0 hev1.2.4.L143.B0 HEVC/H.265 HDR UHD60
hvc1.2.4.L153.B0 hev1.2.4.L153.B0
* * *
\- \@width and \@height for Representations shall be set to one of the
following pairs: (3840, 2160), (3200, 1800), (2560, 1440), (1920, 1080),
(1600, 900), (1280, 720), (960, 540), (854, 480), (640, 360), or (426, 240).
\- \@frameRate shall be set to one of the following values: \"24\", \"25\",
\"30\", \"50\", \"60\", \"24000/1001\", \"30000/1001\" or \"60000/1001\".
\- The Colour Primaries, Transfer Characteristics and Matrix Coefficients
shall be signalled to indicate ITU-R BT.2020 and BT.2100 PQ as defined in
clause 5.1.3. In particular, the Essential Descriptors shall be present to
signal BT.2020 and BT.2100 PQ as follows:
> \- an Essential Descriptor shall be used to signal the value by setting the
> \@schemeIdUri attribute to urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:MatrixCoefficients as defined
> ISO/IEC 23091-2 [10] and the \@value attribute according to Table 4 of
> ISO/IEC 23091-2 [10]. The values shall match the values set in the VUI, i.e.
> the value is set to 9.
>
> \- Essential Descriptors shall be used to signal the value by setting the
> \@schemeIdUri attribute to urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:ColourPrimaries and
> urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:TransferCharacteristics, respectively, as defined
> ISO/IEC 23091-2 [10] and the \@value attribute according to the \"Colour
> primaries\" Table and the \"Transfer characteristics\" Table of ISO/IEC
> 23091-2 [10], respectively. The values shall match the values set in the
> VUI, i.e.
>
> \- urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:ColourPrimaries with value set to 9.
>
> \- urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:TransferCharacteristics with value set to 16.
>
> \- The Essential Descriptors, and if applicable the Supplementary
> Descriptor, shall be on Adaptation Set level only, i.e all Representations
> in one Adaptation Set are required to have the same Matrix Coefficients,
> Color Primaries and Transfer Function.
>
> \- If any Representation contains a mastering display colour volume SEI
> message or a content light level information SEI message, the same SEI
> message shall be present in all Representations in the Adaptation Set.
>
> \- For hvc1 this implies that the SEI messages shall be provided in the
> decoder configuration record of every Representation.
>
> \- For hev1, if any of such SEI message is carried inband within a
> segment/subsegment of any Representation of the Adaptation Set, it shall be
> carried with the first picture of that segment/subsegment in decode order in
> all Representations of this Adaptation Set.
## 5.9 H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR HLG Operation Point
### 5.9.1 Operation Point Identifier
If all Representations in an Adaptation Set conforms to the elementary stream
constraints for the **H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR HLG** Operation Point as defined
in clause 4.5.7 and the Adaptation Set conforms to the MPD signalling
according to clause 5.9.2 and 5.9.4, and the Representations conform to the
file format constraints in clause 5.9.3, then the \@profiles parameter in the
Adaptation Set may signal conformance to this Operation Point by using
\"urn:3GPP:video:op:h265-Full-HD-HDR-HLG\".
### 5.9.2 MPD Signalling
The requirements as defined in clause 5.1.1 shall apply. In addition, the
conditions in 5.9.4 shall apply.
### 5.9.3 File Format Constraints
For Representations conforming to the **H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR HLG** Operation
Point the following requirements apply.
The requirements as defined in clause 5.4.3 shall apply. The video track shall
be encoded using the requirements and recommendations for H.265/HEVC Full HD
HDR HLG Operation Point as defined in clause 4.5.7.
### 5.9.4 Adaptation Set Constraint
The requirements as defined in clause 5.1.3 shall apply. In addition, the
following shall apply:
\- \@maxWidth and \@maxHeight shall be set to one of the following pairs:
(1920, 1080), (1280, 720).
\- The \@codecs parameter shall be set to one of the values defined in Table
5.1, depending on the operating mode as defined in clause 4.5.7.8, except that
the level indication may indicate a lower level to which all the applicable
Bitstreams conform.
Table 5.1: Codecs parameters for different HD HDR Operating modes
* * *
Operation Modes name Codecs Parameter for hvc1 Codecs Parameter for hev1
HEVC/H.265 HDR HLG 720p HD30 hvc1.2.4.L83.B0 hev1.2.4.L83.B0 HEVC/H.265 HDR
HLG 720p HD60 hvc1.2.4.L93.B0 hev1.2.4.L93.B0 HEVC/H.265 HDR HLG Full HD30
hvc1.2.4.L113.B0 hev1.2.4.L113.B0 HEVC/H.265 HDR HLG Full HD60
hvc1.2.4.L123.B0 hev1.2.4.L123.B0
* * *
\- \@width and \@height for Representations shall be set to one of the
following pairs: (1920, 1080), (1600, 900), (1280, 720), (960, 540), (854,
480), (640, 360), or (426, 240). \@width and \@height shall not be greater
than \@MaxWidth and \@MaxHeight respectively.
\- \@frameRate shall be set to one of the following values: \"24\", \"25\",
\"30\", \"50\", \"60\", \"24000/1001\", \"30000/1001\" or \"60000/1001\".
\- The Colour Primaries, Transfer Characteristics and Matrix Coefficients
shall be signalled to indicate ITU-R BT.2020 and BT.2100 HLG as defined in
clause 5.1.3. In particular, the Essential Descriptors shall be present to
signal BT.2020 and BT.2100 HLG as follows:
> \- an Essential Descriptor shall be used to signal the value by setting the
> \@schemeIdUri attribute to urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:MatrixCoefficients as defined
> ISO/IEC 23091-2 [10] and the \@value attribute according to the "Matrix
> coefficients" Table of ISO/IEC 23091-2 [10]. The values shall match the
> values set in the VUI, i.e. the value is set to 9.
>
> \- Essential Descriptors shall be used to signal the value by setting the
> \@schemeIdUri attribute to urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:ColourPrimaries and
> urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:TransferCharacteristics, respectively, as defined
> ISO/IEC 23091-2 [10] and the \@value attribute according to the \"Colour
> primaries\" Table and the \"Transfer characteristics\" Table of ISO/IEC
> 23091-2 [10], respectively. The values shall match the values set in the
> VUI, i.e.
>
> \- urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:ColourPrimaries with value set to 9.
>
> \- set to either 18 or 14. If 14 is signalled for HLG_HDR, a Supplementary
> Descriptor with the same attributes shall be used to signal the value 18,
> and the \@profiles parameter shall not include
> \"urn:3GPP:video:op:h265-Full-HD\", but should include
> \"urn:3GPP:video:op:h265-Full-HD-HDR-HLG\".
>
> \- The Essential Descriptors, and if applicable the Supplementary
> Descriptors, shall be on Adaptation Set level only, i.e all Representations
> in one Adaptation Set are required to have the same Matrix Coefficients,
> Color Primaries and Transfer Function.
## 5.10 H.265/HEVC UHD HDR HLG Operation Point
### 5.10.1 Operation Point Identifier
If all Representations in an Adaptation Set conforms to the elementary stream
constraints for the **H.265/HEVC UHD HDR HLG** Operation Point as defined in
clause 4.5.8 and the Adaptation Set conforms to the MPD signalling according
to clause 5.10.2 and 5.10.4, and the Representations conform to the file
format constraints in clause 5.10.3, then the \@profiles parameter in the
Adaptation Set may signal conformance to this Operation Point by using
\"urn:3GPP:video:op:h265-UHD-HDR-HLG\".
### 5.10.2 MPD Signalling
The requirements as defined in clause 5.1.1 shall apply. In addition, the
conditions in 5.10.4 shall apply.
### 5.10.3 File Format Constraints
For Representations conforming to the **H.265/HEVC UHD HDR HLG** Operation
Point the following requirements apply.
The requirements as defined in clause 5.4.3 shall apply. The video track shall
be encoded using the requirements and recommendations for H.265/HEVC UHD HDR
HLG Operation Point as defined in clause 4.5.8.
### 5.10.4 Adaptation Set Constraint
The requirements as defined in clause 5.1.3 shall apply. In addition, the
following shall apply:
\- \@maxWidth shall be set to 3840 and \@maxHeight shall be set to 2160.
\- The \@codecs parameter shall be set to one of the values defined in Table
5.2, depending on the operating mode as defined in clause 4.5.6.9,
Table 5.2: Codecs parameters for different UHD HDR HLG Operating modes
* * *
Operation Modes name Codecs Parameter for hvc1 Codecs Parameter for hev1
HEVC/H.265 HDR HLG UHD30 hvc1.2.4.L143.B0 hev1.2.4.L143.B0 HEVC/H.265 HDR HLG
UHD60 hvc1.2.4.L153.B0 hev1.2.4.L153.B0
* * *
\- \@width and \@height for Representations shall be set to one of the
following pairs: (3840, 2160), (3200, 1800), (2560, 1440), (1920, 1080),
(1600, 900), (1280, 720), (960, 540), (854, 480), (640, 360), or (426, 240).
\- \@frameRate shall be set to one of the following values: \"24\", \"25\",
\"30\", \"50\", \"60\", \"24000/1001\", \"30000/1001\" or \"60000/1001\".
\- The Colour Primaries, Transfer Characteristics and Matrix Coefficients
shall be signalled to indicate ITU-R BT.2020 and BT.2100 HLG as defined in
clause 5.1.3. In particular, the Essential Descriptors shall be present to
signal BT.2020 and BT.2100 HLG as follows:
> \- an Essential Descriptor shall be used to signal the value by setting the
> \@schemeIdUri attribute to urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:MatrixCoefficients as defined
> ISO/IEC 23091-2 [10] and the \@value attribute according to the "Matrix
> coefficients" Table of ISO/IEC 23091-2 [10]. The values shall match the
> values set in the VUI, i.e. the value is set to 9.
>
> \- Essential Descriptors shall be used to signal the value by setting the
> \@schemeIdUri attribute to urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:ColourPrimaries and
> urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:TransferCharacteristics, respectively, as defined
> ISO/IEC 23091-2 [10] and the \@value attribute according to the \"Colour
> primaries\" Table and the \"Transfer characteristics\" Table of ISO/IEC
> 23091-2 [10], respectively. The values shall match the values set in the
> VUI, i.e.
>
> \- urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:ColourPrimaries with value set to 9.
>
> \- set to either 18 or 14. If 14 is signalled for HLG_HDR, a Supplementary
> Descriptor with the same attributes shall be used to signal the value 18,
> and the \@profiles parameter shall not include
> \"urn:3GPP:video:op:h265-UHD\", but should include
> \"urn:3GPP:video:op:h265-UHD-HDR-HLG\".
>
> \- The Essential Descriptors, and if applicable the Supplementary
> Descriptors, shall be on Adaptation Set level only, i.e all Representations
> in one Adaptation Set are required to have the same Matrix Coefficients,
> Color Primaries and Transfer Function.
## 5.11 H.265/HEVC 8K UHD Operation Point
### 5.11.1 Operation Point Identifier
If all Representations in an Adaptation Set conform to the elementary stream
constraints for the **H.265/HEVC 8K** **UHD** Operation Point as defined in
clause 4.9.6 and the Adaptation Set conforms to the MPD signalling according
to clause 5.11.2 and 5.11.4, and the Representations conform to the file
format constraints in clause 5.8.3, then the \@profiles parameter in the
Adaptation Set may signal conformance to this Operation Point by using
\"urn:3GPP:video:op:h265-8K-UHD\".
### 5.11.2 MPD Signalling
The requirements as defined in clause 5.1.1 shall apply. In addition, the
conditions in 5.11.4 shall apply.
### 5.11.3 File Format Constraints
For Representations conforming to the **H.265/HEVC 8K UHD** Operation Point
the following requirements apply.
The requirements as defined in clause 5.4.3 shall apply. The video track shall
be encoded using the requirements and recommendations for H.265/HEVC 8K UHD
Operation Point as defined in clause 4.9.6.
In addition, the Representation shall conform to an MPEG CMAF Track that
conforms to the 'c8k0\' media profile as defined ISO/IEC 23000-19 [13].
If sample entry hvc1 is in use, then any possibly present Mastering display
colour volume SEI message or any possibly present Content light level
information SEI message shall be provided in the decoder configuration record
and shall be constant for the entire file.
### 5.11.4 Adaptation Set Constraint
The requirements as defined in clause 5.1.3 shall apply. In addition, the
following shall apply:
\- \@maxWidth shall be set to 7680 and \@maxHeight shall be set to 4320.
\- The \@codecs parameter shall be set to either hvc1.2.4.L183.B0 or
hev1.2.4.L183.B0.
\- \@width and \@height for Representations shall be set to one of the
following pairs: (7680, 4320), (5120, 2880), (3840, 2160), (3200, 1800),
(2560, 1440), (1920, 1080), (1600, 900), (1280, 720), (960, 540), or (854,
480).
\- \@frameRate shall be set to one of the following values: \"24\", \"25\",
\"30\", \"50\", \"60\", \"24000/1001\", \"30000/1001\" or \"60000/1001\".
\- The Colour Primaries, Transfer Characteristics and Matrix Coefficients
shall be signalled to indicate ITU-R BT.2020, and BT.2100 PQ and BT.2100 HLG
as defined in clause 5.1.3. In particular, the Essential Descriptors shall be
present to signal BT.2020, and BT.2100 PQ and BT.2100 HLG as follows:
> \- an Essential Descriptor shall be used to signal the value by setting the
> \@schemeIdUri attribute to urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:MatrixCoefficients as defined
> ISO/IEC 23091-2 [10] and the \@value attribute according to ISO/IEC 23091-2
> [10]. The values shall match the values set in the VUI, i.e. the value is
> set to 9.
>
> \- Essential Descriptors shall be used to signal the value by setting the
> \@schemeIdUri attribute to urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:ColourPrimaries and
> urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:TransferCharacteristics, respectively, as defined
> ISO/IEC 23091-2 [10] and the \@value attribute according to the \"Colour
> primaries\" Table and the \"Transfer characteristics\" Table of ISO/IEC
> 23091-2 [10], respectively. The values shall match the values set in the
> VUI, i.e.
>
> \- urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:ColourPrimaries with value set to 9.
>
> \- urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:TransferCharacteristics with value set to
>
> \- 14 if SDR is in use,
>
> \- 16 if HDR PQ is in use, or
>
> \- 18 if HDR HLG is in use.
>
> \- The Essential Descriptors, and if applicable the Supplementary
> Descriptor, shall be on Adaptation Set level only, i.e all Representations
> in one Adaptation Set are required to have the same Matrix Coefficients,
> Color Primaries and Transfer Function.
>
> \- If any Representation contains a mastering display colour volume SEI
> message or a content light level information SEI message, the same SEI
> message shall be present in all Representations in the Adaptation Set.
>
> \- For hvc1 this implies that the SEI messages shall be provided in the
> decoder configuration record of every Representation.
>
> \- For hev1, if any of such SEI message is carried inband within a
> segment/subsegment of any Representation of the Adaptation Set, it shall be
> carried with the first picture of that segment/subsegment in decode order in
> all Representations of this Adaptation Set.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Registration Information
# A.1 3GPP Registered URIs
The clause documents the registered URIs in this specification following the
process in http://www.3gpp.org/specifications-groups/34-uniform-resource-name-
urn-list
Table A-1 lists all registered URN values as well as
\- a brief description of its functionality;
\- a reference to the specification or other publicly available document (if
any) containing the definition;
\- the name and email address of the person making the application; and
\- any supplementary information considered necessary to support the
application.
> Table A-1: 3GPP Registered URNs
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **URN** | **De | ** |** Contact**|** Remarks**| | | scription** | Reference** | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | urn:3GPP | DASH | TS 26.116, | Thomas | none | | :video:op:h | profile | clause | Stockhammer | | | 264-720p-HD | identifier | 5.2.1 | | | | | for | | tsto\@qti.q | | | | H.264/AVC | | ualcomm.com | | | | 720p HD | | | | | | Operation | | | | | | Point | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | urn:3GPP | DASH | TS 26.116, | Thomas | none | | :video:op:h | profile | clause | Stockhammer | | | 264-Full-HD | identifier | 5.3.1 | | | | | for | | tsto\@qti.q | | | | H.264/AVC | | ualcomm.com | | | | Full HD | | | | | | Operation | | | | | | Point | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | urn:3GPP | DASH | TS 26.116, | Thomas | none | | :video:op:h | profile | clause | Stockhammer | | | 265-720p-HD | identifier | 5.4.1 | | | | | for | | tsto\@qti.q | | | | H.265/HEVC | | ualcomm.com | | | | 720p HD | | | | | | Operation | | | | | | Point | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | urn:3GPP | DASH | TS 26.116, | Thomas | none | | :video:op:h | profile | clause | Stockhammer | | | 265-Full-HD | identifier | 5.5.1 | | | | | for | | tsto\@qti.q | | | | H.265/HEVC | | ualcomm.com | | | | Full HD | | | | | | Operation | | | | | | Point | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | urn: | DASH | TS 26.116, | Thomas | none | | 3GPP:video: | profile | clause | Stockhammer | | | op:h265-UHD | identifier | 5.6.1 | | | | | for | | tsto\@qti.q | | | | H.265/HEVC | | ualcomm.com | | | | UHD\ | | | | | | Operation | | | | | | Point | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | u | DASH | TS 26.116, | Thomas | none | | rn:3GPP:vid | profile | clause | Stockhammer | | | eo:op:h265- | identifier | 5.7.1 | | | | Full-HD-HDR | for | | tsto\@qti.q | | | | H.265/HEVC | | ualcomm.com | | | | Full HD HDR | | | | | | Operation | | | | | | Point | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | urn:3GPP | DASH | TS 26.116, | Thomas | none | | :video:op:h | profile | clause | Stockhammer | | | 265-UHD-HDR | identifier | 5.8.1 | | | | | for | | tsto\@qti.q | | | | H.265/HEVC | | ualcomm.com | | | | UHD HDR\ | | | | | | Operation | | | | | | Point | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | urn:3 | DASH | TS 26.116, | Thomas | none | | GPP:video:o | profile | clause | Stockhammer | | | p:h265-Full | identifier | 5.9.1 | | | | -HD-HDR-HLG | for | | tsto\@qti.q | | | | H.265/HEVC | | ualcomm.com | | | | Full HD HDR | | | | | | HLG | | | | | | Operation | | | | | | Point | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | u | DASH | TS 26.116, | Thomas | none | | rn:3GPP:vid | profile | clause | Stockhammer | | | eo:op:h265- | identifier | 5.10.1 | | | | UHD-HDR-HLG | for | | tsto\@qti.q | | | | H.265/HEVC | | ualcomm.com | | | | UHD HDR | | | | | | HLG\ | | | | | | Operation | | | | | | Point | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | urn:3GP | DASH | TS 26.116, | Thomas | none | | P:video:op: | profile | clause | Stockhammer | | | h265-8K-UHD | identifier | 5.11.1 | | | | | for | | tsto\@qti.q | | | | H.265/HEVC | | ualcomm.com | | | | 8K UHD\ | | | | | | Operation | | | | | | Point | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#