# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes:
\- Test cases needed to ensure an adequate level of RTP operation and RTP
stream monitoring.
\- Test methods capable to verify that information contained in the RTP header
and in RTCP is correct and consistent with the observed characteristics of the
related RTP streams:
\- Between RTP/RTCP within the scope of a single RTP stream (e.g. between an
RTP stream and the corresponding RTCP reporting from the remote party, or
between an RTP stream and the corresponding RTCP metadata, e.g. for sampling
clock accuracy compensation between RTP sender and RTP receiver).
\- Between RTP/RTCP across RTP streams in the same RTP session (e.g. between
sent and received RTP streams, or between audio RTP streams and video RTP
streams).
\- Requirements on what constitutes acceptable RTP/RTCP protocol field values,
including RTP payload header and RTP payload length, based on the observed
characteristics of the related RTP streams.
\- A method for an RTP/RTCP implementation to announce on the network that it
has passed the necessary tests and conforms to the new specification.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] IETF RFC 3550 (2003): \"RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time
Applications\".
[3] IETF RFC 3158 (2001): \"RTP Testing Strategies\".
[4] IETF RFC 3551 (2003): \"RTP Profile for Audio and Video Conferences with
Minimal Control\".
[5] IETF RFC 3711 (2004): \"The Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)\".
[6] IETF RFC 3556 (2003): \"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Bandwidth
Modifiers for RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Bandwidth\".
[7] IETF RFC 4585 (2006): \"Extended RTP Profile for Real-time Transport
Control Protocol (RTCP) -- Based Feedback (RTP/AVPF)\".
[8] IETF RFC 5506 (2009): \"Support for Reduced-Size Real-Time Transport
Control Protocol (RTCP): Opportunities and Consequences\".
[9] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia Telephony;
Media handling and interaction\".
> [10] 3GPP TS 26.131: \"Terminal acoustic characteristics for telephony;
> Requirements\".
>
> [11] 3GPP TS 26.132: \"Speech and video telephony terminal acoustic test
> specification\".
>
> [12] 3GPP TS 34.229-1: \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control
> protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description
> Protocol (SDP); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part 1:
> Protocol conformance specification\".
>
> [13] IETF RFC 3611 (2003): \"RTP Control Protocol Extended Reports (RTCP
> XR)\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
> $=$ Equal to.
>
> $\neq$ Not equal to.
>
> $
> $\leq$ Less than or equal to.
>
> $>$ Greater than.
>
> $\geq$ Greater than or equal to.
>
> $+$ Addition.
>
> $-$ Subtraction.
>
> $\bullet$ Multiplication (when unambiguous, also by juxtaposition of
> expressions, e.g. $a \bullet b = ab$).
>
> $\frac{\ }{\ }$ Division.
>
> \% Modulo, e.g. a % b, where the result is the remainder from a divided by
> b.
>
> $\Sigma$ Sum, e.g. $\sum_{i = 1}^{n}\text{expression}$ is the sum of
> $\text{expression}$ over index $i$ ranging from $1$ to $n$.
>
> & Bitwise AND.
>
> \| Bitwise OR.
>
> $\ll$ Logical shift left, e.g. $a \ll b$, where $a$ is shifted left $b$
> bits, shifting in 0 in least significant bit.
>
> $\gg$ Logical shift right, e.g. $a \gg b$ where $a$ is shifted right $b$
> bits, shifting in 0 in most significant bit.
>
> $\in$ Belongs to.
>
> $\forall$ For all.
>
> $\exists$ Exists.
>
> $\nexists$ Does not exist.
>
> $\left\lbrack \text{a..b} \right\rbrack$ Range of values, from $a$ to $b$,
> inclusive.
>
> $\left{ \text{expression} \right}$ Set of unordered, unique values created
> from $\text{expression}$.
>
> $\left| \text{expression} \right|$ Absolute value of $\text{expression}$.
>
> $\left\lfloor \text{expression} \right\rfloor$ Integer value of
> $\text{expression}$, the floor value, rounded towards zero.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
> SUT System Under Test
# 4 Background
Today\'s 3GPP conversational and real-time services (e.g. MTSI [9] and mission
critical services) all use the RTP protocol [2] or the Secure RTP protocol [5]
on top of UDP/IP as media transport. (S)RTP has a companion control protocol,
(S)RTCP (also in [2] and [5]), which is optional but is typically also used.
In the rest of the present document, only the terms RTP/RTCP are used for
brevity but should be understood to be equally applicable to SRTP/SRTCP if
nothing else is said.
RTCP provides means to feedback statistical characteristics of a received RTP
stream from RTP receiver to RTP sender, and to carry RTP stream metadata from
RTP sender to RTP receiver, both during an active RTP session and in hold
conditions where no RTP is sent. While RTP/RTCP information is designed to be
useful to an ongoing real-time media session, the increased focus on
automation and the consequential need for service observability and automatic
performance measurements also makes it convenient and common to use RTP header
and RTCP as one of the information sources to monitor the RTP streams for
automation purposes. This is a very straightforward approach since it was one
of the very design targets for RTP/RTCP, and both RTCP and RTP are extensible
and can optionally carry various types of information. Service observability
is paramount to enable any tuning or optimization to achieve a well-
functioning system.
However, RTCP information has little or no end-user impact on basic, single-
media communication services such as a voice-only call. The reasons for this
are mainly twofold:
> 1) One of the intended usages of RTCP feedback reporting functionality is to
> allow the RTP sender to adapt its sending rate to available transport
> capacity since a non-acknowledged transport such as UDP/IP has no built-in
> congestion control, but most voice-only calls today are both low-rate and
> fixed-rate that has no use for adaptation; and
>
> 2) One of the other intended usages of RTCP is to provide enough metadata
> information to allow close time synchronization of different RTP streams,
> such as e.g. voice and video for a video call, but a voice-only call is
> single-media and has no use for such time synchronization.
Therefore, there is often no direct impact on the voice service performance if
a UE or network-node implementation of the RTP stack includes incorrect (e.g.
all-zero or random) data in RTCP for a voice-only call. RTCP information
content only matters on service level when really making use of RTCP
functionality such as for quality monitoring, somehow acting on varying
transport characteristics (loss, delay, jitter), or when performing inter-
media synchronization.
Also, while the call setup and modification protocol, SIP/SDP, is conformance
tested in 3GPP scope (by TSG RAN WG5), no media-level tests are defined or
performed there when the present document is written. RTP and RTCP are
considered as media-level protocols in that conformance testing. The current
overall level of RTCP implementation conformance and accuracy in 3GPP devices
and in RTP/RTCP-terminating network nodes is therefore mostly unknown.
Since the information content in RTP/RTCP is often neither fundamental for the
user-level experience nor explicitly tested today, there is a risk that
automation, performance tuning efforts, and the application using the RTP/RTCP
stack will work with incorrect data, potentially making wrong decisions that
could result in worse rather than better performance.
# 5 Test Architectures
## 5.1 General
This clause describes a set of terms and possible ways to arrange the
equipment used in the tests in subsequent clauses.
The \"system under test\" is the device or software to be tested.
The \"test instrument\" is the equipment used to observe RTP/RTCP output from
the system under test, and in applicable cases also RTP/RTCP output from data
injection, similar to e.g. a \"System Simulator\" (SS) in TS 34.229-1 [12].
Depending on the test architecture used, it may also act as RTP/RTCP receiver
for data sent from the system under test. The test instrument also includes
possibility to extract, calculate, and store information as described by the
test procedures in clause 6 of the present document.
The \"data injection\" is the device or equipment used to generate RTP/RTCP
data sent to the system under test. It may be collocated or integrated with
the test instrument. For some tests and test architectures, e.g. when two
systems under test are interconnected, it may be part of the system under
test. Data injection may also act as RTP/RTCP receiver for data sent from the
system under test, e.g. when the test instrument does not include this
functionality.
In all tests, it is assumed that both systems under test, the test instrument,
and the data injection are active and connected to the network before starting
the test procedure.
Other test architectures than the ones suggested here may be used.
## 5.2 Active Test Instrument
In this test architecture, depicted in Figure 5.2-1, the test instrument is
capable of both observing RTP/RTCP traffic and acting as fully functional
counterpart to the system under test, including both RTP/RTCP sender and
receiver.
**Figure 5.2-1: Active Test Instrument**
## 5.3 Passive Test Instrument
In this test architecture, depicted in Figure 5.3-1, the test instrument is
only passively observing RTP/RTCP traffic, and data injection including both
RTP/RTCP sender and receiver is acting as a counterpart to the system under
test.
**Figure 5.3-1: Passive Test Instrument**
## 5.4 Interconnected Systems Under Test
In this test architecture, the test instrument is either only passively
observing RTP/RTCP traffic, depicted in Figure 5.4-1, or actively forwarding
RTP/RTCP traffic, depicted in Figure 5.4-2, while two interconnected systems
under test act as each other\'s RTP/RTCP sender and receiver counterparts.
**Figure 5.4-1: Interconnected Systems Under Test with Passive Test
Instrument**
**Figure 5.4-2: Interconnected Systems Under Test with Active Test
Instrument**
5.5 Interconnected Systems Under Test with Data Injection
In this test architecture, depicted in Figure 5.5-1, the test instrument is
only passively observing RTP/RTCP traffic, while two interconnected systems
under test act as each other\'s RTP/RTCP sender and receiver counterparts.
Under the assumption that the systems under test lack necessary data injection
capabilities, a separate data injection is included in the RTP/RTCP path with
capability to make RTP/RTCP modifications on-path. Examples of such RTP/RTCP
modifications could be setting certain sequence number or timestamp start
values, dropping packets, duplicating packets, re-ordering packets, or
adjusting the timing of sent packets. Individual test case procedures provide
what RTP/RTCP modifications are applicable.
**Figure 5.5-1: Interconnected Systems Under Test with Data Injection**
# 6 Verification Tests
## 6.1 General
All test descriptions in this clause use the following layout:
Purpose: _Describes what is tested._
Status: _Mandatory / Conditionally Mandatory_
Preconditions: _Describes any preconditions to be fulfilled to run the test._
Test procedure: _Describes the steps taken to run the test._
Stop condition: _Describes the conditions when the test is concluded, in time
order if more than a single condition._
Pass criteria: _Describes the criteria to be met to pass the test._
Comments: _Any additional comments applicable to the test._
Mandatory tests are required to pass for a system under test.
Conditionally Mandatory tests are mandatory to pass if the functionality is
supported/implemented by the system under test, can be set or negotiated, and
is correctly negotiated to be used during the test, the method of negotiation
being described as part of the Preconditions section (see above).
## 6.2 RTCP Tests
### 6.2.1 General
This clause describes tests that are applicable to all types of RTCP and SRTCP
packets. If not explicitly stated otherwise, any reference to RTCP is equally
applicable to SRTCP. Tests that are only applicable to SRTCP and not to RTCP
are specified in clause 6.4.
If not explicitly stated otherwise, all tests in this clause assume that the
system under test (SUT) and the test setup are set to use:
1) AVP profile [4] for RTCP tests.
2) SAVP profile [5] for SRTCP tests.
3) A known, non-zero RTP session bandwidth.
4) Non-zero RTCP bandwidth.
5) Lossless RTP and RTCP packet transmission.
> 6) An RTCP report interval that is on average large enough to not exceed the
> set RTCP bandwidth, and where each RTCP report interval is kept within the
> minimum and maximum limits set by that (deterministic) average and the
> interval randomization described by section 6.3.1 of RFC 3550 [2].
NOTE 1: The minimum, maximum, and average RTCP report intervals are not static
parameters for an RTP/RTCP implementation but, as described in RFC 3550 [2],
depend on conditions that vary with e.g. RTP session bandwidth, RTCP
bandwidth, average size of RTCP packets, number of RTP session participants,
and use of optional RTP/RTCP features such as RTCP feedback [7] and/or non-
compound RTCP packets [8].
NOTE 2: The method to set RTCP report interval in the system under test can
vary. The RTCP report interval can in some cases be set directly, if the
system under test has appropriate means to do so. The RTCP report interval can
alternatively be set indirectly by e.g. setting an appropriate RTCP bandwidth
in combination with pre-knowledge about the expected average RTCP packet size.
If it is not possible to set RTCP bandwidth directly, it could be possible to
set an appropriate RTP session bandwidth and rely on RTCP bandwidth becoming
the default 5 % of that RTP session bandwidth.
### 6.2.2 Basic RTCP Tests
#### 6.2.2.1 Initial Sending No Data RTCP Test
Purpose: Test if RTCP packets are generated by the SUT even if no RTP packets
are sent or received by the SUT at the start of the session _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: The SUT is set to not send any RTP packets from the start of
the test session, e.g. pre-configured or set as receive-only through test
instrument signalling.
Test procedure: Observe the SUT output.
Stop condition: RTCP packets are sent from the SUT, or time has passed
corresponding to at least three maximum RTCP intervals (see clause 6.2.1).
Pass criteria: 1) No RTP packets are sent from the SUT.\ 2) RTCP packets are
sent from the SUT containing at least a Receiver Report.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being received by the SUT
or not. If the SUT is not receiving any RTP packets, the Receiver Report will
be empty (no report blocks, see also test 6.2.2.2).
#### 6.2.2.2 Initial Receiving No Data RTCP Test
Purpose: Test if RTCP Sender Reports or Receiver Reports without any Receiver
Report blocks are generated by the SUT even if no RTP packets are received at
the start of the session _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: The SUT is set to not receive any RTP packets from the start of
the test session, e.g. pre-configured, set as send-only through test
instrument signalling, or data injection configuration.
Test procedure: Observe the SUT output.
Stop condition: RTCP packets are sent from the SUT, or time has passed
corresponding to at least three maximum RTCP intervals (see clause 6.2.1).
Pass criteria: 1) No RTP packets are received by the SUT.\ 2) RTCP packets are
sent by the SUT containing at least a Sender Report or Receiver Report, with
an empty Receiver Report block, indicated by RC=0.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being sent by the SUT or
not.
#### 6.2.2.3 Sending Data RTCP Test
Purpose: Test if RTCP Sender Reports with nonzero content are sent by the SUT
when RTP packets are sent by the SUT _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: The SUT is set to send RTP packets during the test session,
e.g. pre-configured or set as send-receive or send-only through test
instrument signalling.
Test procedure: Observe the SUT output.
Stop condition: 1) One or more RTP packets are sent by the SUT.\ 2) One or
more RTCP packets are sent by the SUT, or time has passed corresponding to at
least three maximum RTCP intervals (see clause 6.2.1).
Pass criteria: 1) RTP packets are sent by the SUT.\ 2) At least one RTCP
packet is sent by the SUT containing at least a Sender Report.\ 3) The Sender
Report contains nonzero Sender Info fields (NTP timestamp, RTP timestamp,
sender\'s packet count, and sender\'s octet count).
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being received by the SUT
or not.
#### 6.2.2.4 Mid-Session Sending No Data RTCP Test
Purpose: Test if the content of Sender Reports sent by the SUT after the SUT
has stopped sending RTP packets correctly reflect that RTP is no longer sent,
and that RTCP transmission is changed to instead issue Receiver Reports at an
appropriate time after RTP packet transmission was stopped _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed tests 6.2.2.1 and 6.2.2.3.\ 2) The SUT is
possible to control dynamically (e.g. directly through proprietary interfaces
or via test instrument signalling) during an ongoing RTP session to turn
sending of RTP packets on and off, while keeping the RTP session.
Test procedure: 1) Set the SUT to send RTP packets.\ 2) Observe the SUT output
until at least one RTCP Sender Report is sent by the SUT, or time has passed
corresponding to at least three maximum RTCP intervals (see clause 6.2.1).\ 3)
If no RTCP Sender Report was sent by the SUT in step 2, stop the test and set
it as failed.\ 4) Set the SUT to not send RTP packets.\ 5) Observe the SUT
output.
Stop condition: At least three RTCP packets are sent by the SUT during step 5
in the test procedure, or time has passed corresponding to at least three
maximum RTCP intervals (see clause 6.2.1) during step 5 in the test procedure.
Pass criteria: The following conditions are fulfilled after step 5 in the test
procedure:\ 1) No RTP packets are sent by the SUT.\ 2) The first two RTCP
packets sent from the SUT contain Sender Reports with identical sender
information in sender\'s packet count and sender\'s octet count.\ 3) The third
RTCP packet sent from the SUT contains a Receiver Report.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being received by the SUT
or not.\ IETF RFC 3550 [2] section 6.4 specifies to send a Sender Report if
RTP was sent during this RTCP reporting interval or the previous one,
otherwise a Receiver Report is sent. The two first Sender Reports in this test
contain identical sender information in sender\'s packet count and sender\'s
octet count since no packets were sent during the latter reporting period.
#### 6.2.2.5 Mid-Session Receiving No Data RTCP Test
Purpose: Test if RTCP content from the SUT correctly indicates that no RTP
packets were received by the SUT during the reporting period, even if RTP
packets were received by the SUT previously in the RTP session _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed tests 6.2.2.2 and 6.2.2.3.\ 2) The data
injection to the SUT is possible to control dynamically (e.g. directly through
proprietary interfaces or via test instrument signalling) during an ongoing
RTP session to turn sending of RTP packets on and off, while keeping the RTP
session.
Test procedure: 1) Set the data injection to send RTP packets to the SUT.\ 2)
Observe the SUT output until at least one RTCP packet is sent from the SUT, or
time has passed corresponding to at least three maximum RTCP intervals (see
clause 6.2.1).\ 3) If no RTCP packet was sent by the SUT in step 2, stop the
test and set it as failed.\ 4) Set the data injection to not send RTP packets
to the SUT.\ 5) Observe the SUT output.
Stop condition: At least two RTCP packets are sent by the SUT during step 5 in
the test procedure, or time has passed corresponding to at least three maximum
RTCP intervals (see clause 6.2.1) during step 5 in the test procedure.
Pass criteria: The second RTCP packet sent from the SUT during step 5 of the
test procedure contains a Sender Report or Receiver Report with an empty
Receiver Report block, indicated by RC=0.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being sent by the SUT or
not.\ If the data injection does not perform step 4 fast enough after step 2,
the SUT may receive some RTP packets after step 2. Those RTP packets will then
be reported on in the next RTCP packet sent from the SUT, which is the reason
to use the second RTCP packet sent after step 4 as input to the pass criteria.
#### 6.2.2.6 Compound RTCP Packet Format Test
Purpose: Test if the content and formatting of a compound RTCP packet sent by
the SUT fulfils basic criteria _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed tests 6.2.2.1 -- 6.2.2.5.\ 2) Reduced-
size RTCP [8] is _not_ negotiated to be used in the session (see clause 6.2.10
for reduced-size tests), e.g. indicated by \"a=rtcp-rsize\" _not_ being
present in the SDP answer for the tested RTP media.
Test procedure: Observe the SUT output from tests 6.2.2.1 -- 6.2.2.5.
Stop condition: Not applicable (implicit through tests in 6.2.2.1 -- 6.2.2.5).
Pass criteria: All RTCP packets sent from the SUT fulfils:\ 1) A Sender Report
or Receiver Report (equally acceptable for the outcome of this test) is
included as the _first part_ of the compound RTCP packet.\ 2) An SDES packet
with a CNAME SDES item (see also test 6.2.5.2) is included in the compound
RTCP packet (except when a compound RTCP packet is split for partial
encryption, if used; see SRTCP tests in clause 6.4).\ 3) Each RTCP packet in
the compound RTCP packet starts on a 32-bit boundary.\ 4) Each RTCP packet in
the compound RTCP packet has a length field with a value that is the number of
32-bit words minus one occupied by that RTCP packet, including the RTCP packet
header and any padding.\ 5) The UDP packet that contains the compound RTCP
packet in criteria 4 as payload has a Length field with a value that is 4
times the sum of the length fields in all the RTCP packets in the compound
RTCP packet (the total RTCP size in bytes), plus 8 (the UDP header size in
bytes).
#### 6.2.2.7 RTCP Report Count Test
Purpose: Test if RTCP packets sent by the SUT contain a correct and consistent
report count and length fields _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: The SUT has passed tests 6.2.2.1 -- 6.2.2.5.
Test procedure: Observe the SUT output from tests 6.2.2.1 -- 6.2.2.5.
Stop condition: Not applicable (implicit through tests in 6.2.2.1 -- 6.2.2.5).
Pass criteria: All RTCP packets sent from the SUT fulfils:\ 1) Regardless if
the RTCP packet is a Sender Report or Receiver Report, the report count (RC)
field is consistent with the number of report blocks observed to be included
in the packet.\ 2) The RTCP packet length field has a value that is the number
of 32-bit words minus one occupied by that RTCP packet, including the RTCP
packet header and any padding.
Comments: This test does not cover a higher report count than 1, which can be
required when more than a single RTP stream is sent in an RTP session, e.g. in
multi-stream scenarios as described by TS 26.114 [9] Annex S. Tests covering a
higher report count than 1 may be added in future revisions of the present
document.
### 6.2.3 RTCP Bandwidth and Transmission Timing Tests
#### 6.2.3.1 RTCP Disable Test
Purpose: Test if setting RTCP bandwidth to zero in SDP disables RTCP
transmission from the SUT _._
Status: Conditionally Mandatory (Precondition 1)
Preconditions: 1) RTCP transmission by the SUT is disabled for the RTP
session, e.g. pre-configured or negotiated in SDP by both b=RS:0 and b=RR:0
being present in the SDP answer (zero RTCP bandwidth) through test instrument
signalling.
Test procedure: Observe the SUT output.
Stop condition: Time has passed corresponding to at least three maximum RTCP
intervals (see clause 6.2.1).
Pass criteria: No RTCP packets are sent from the SUT.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being sent or received by
the SUT.
#### 6.2.3.2 RTCP Basic Interval Test
Purpose: Test if the time interval with which RTCP packets are sent from the
SUT keeps within the maximum RTCP bandwidth and complies with IETF RFC 3550
[2], including prescribed randomization of the time interval (if used)_._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT is set to not use any explicit RTCP bandwidth such
that default RTCP bandwidth is used (based on 5 % of the RTP session
bandwidth), e.g. pre-configured or through neither \"b=RS\" nor \"b=RR\" (see
also test 6.2.3.3) being included in the SDP answer through test instrument
signalling.\ 2) The SUT is set to send and receive RTP packets during the test
session, e.g. pre-configured or set as send-receive in SDP answer through test
instrument signalling.\ 3) The test RTP session contains no more than two
participants (a point-to-point session).
Test procedure: 1) Observe the SUT output.\ 2) Note the reception time
($t_{i}$) and size ($S_{i}$) in bits including UDP and IP headers of each RTCP
packet sent from the SUT.\ 3) Count the number of RTCP packets, $n$, sent from
the SUT.\ 4) For each pair of subsequent RTCP packets, calculate the
difference in send time (called the interval), $I_{i} = t_{i} - t_{i - 1},\
i\epsilon\left\lbrack 2..n \right\rbrack$.\ 5) Calculate the average RTCP
interval $I = \frac{1}{n - 1}\sum_{i = 2}^{n}I_{i}$.\ 6) Calculate the maximum
RTCP interval $I_{\max} = \max_{i}I_{i}$.\ 7) Calculate the minimum RTCP
interval $I_{\min} = \min_{i}I_{i}$.\ 8) Calculate the average RTCP bandwidth
$B = \frac{\left( \sum_{i = 1}^{n - 1}S_{i} \right)}{\left( \sum_{i =
2}^{n}I_{i} \right)}$.\ 9) Calculate the average RTCP packet size $S =
\frac{1}{n - 1}\sum_{i = 1}^{n - 1}S_{i}$.\ 10) Calculate the maximum RTCP
bandwidth $B_{M} = {0.05B}_{\text{RTP}}$, where $B_{\text{RTP}}$ = RTP session
maximum bandwidth in bit/s, e.g. calculated from b=AS (converting from kbit/s
to bit/s) in SDP answer.
Stop condition: At least 10 minutes, or 100 RTCP packets are sent from the
SUT, whichever time is less.
Pass criteria: 1) $B \leq B_{M}$.\ 2) $I_{\min} \geq \frac{S}{\left( e - 1.5
\right)B_{M}}$.\ 3) $I_{\max} \leq \max_{}\left( \frac{3S}{\left( e - 1.5
\right)B_{M}} \middle| \frac{15}{2\left( e - 1.5 \right)} \right)$.
Comments: This test allows an exception to IETF RFC 3550 [2] and the RTP
testing strategies in [3] stating that an implementation fails the test if the
RTCP packets are sent with a constant interval (not randomized).\ The
calculations of bandwidth limits are seemingly not in accordance with the
definition of IETF RFC 4566 section 5.8 that says b=AS is the RTP session
bandwidth (all RTP streams that are sent and received in the RTP session), but
3GPP specifications commonly interpret SDP b= lines as receive bandwidth seen
from the part sending the SDP, which is thus only half of the actual RTP
session bandwidth in a bandwidth-symmetric point-to-point session.\ The
maximum and minimum interval limits are chosen based on the $\left\lbrack
0.5T..1.5T \right\rbrack$ uniform distribution randomization of the RTCP
interval, divided by the e-1.5 (=1.21828...) reconsideration factor, both
taken from section 6.2.1 of IETF RFC 3550. The maximum allowed interval (the
lowest RTCP bandwidth) in this test is a uniformly distributed and randomized
interval based on the longest of the interval calculated from actual RTCP
packet sizes and maximum RTCP bandwidth, and the default 5 second interval.
#### 6.2.3.3 RTCP Explicit Bandwidth Test
Purpose: Test if the SUT keeps RTCP bandwidth within set maximum limit, e.g.
by \"b=RS\" and \"b=RR\" in SDP, and the information in those is correctly
interpreted with respect to SUT being sender in a point-to-point RTP session
_._
Status: Conditionally Mandatory (Precondition 1)
Preconditions: 1) The SUT can set explicit RTCP bandwidth.\ 2) The SUT has
passed test 6.2.3.2.\ 3) The SUT is set to send and receive RTP packets during
the test session, e.g. pre-configured or set as send-receive in SDP answer
through test instrument signalling.
Test procedure: 1) Negotiate an explicit RTCP bandwidth in SDP, setting
\"b=RS:625\" and \"b=RR:1875\" in SDP answer.\ 2) Observe the SUT output.\ 3)
Note the reception time ($t_{i}$) and size ($S_{i}$) in bits of each RTCP
packet sent from the SUT, including UDP and IP headers.\ 4) Count the number
of RTCP packets, $n$, sent from the SUT.\ 5) For each pair of subsequent RTCP
packets, calculate the difference in send time,\ $I_{i} = t_{i} - t_{i - 1},\
i\epsilon\left\lbrack 2..n \right\rbrack$.\ 6) Calculate the average RTCP
bandwidth $B = \frac{\left( \sum_{i = 1}^{n - 1}S_{i} \right)}{\left( \sum_{i
= 2}^{n}I_{i} \right)}$.\ 7) Note the test result from step 6.\ 8) Negotiate
an explicit RTCP bandwidth in SDP, setting \"b=RS:0\" and \"b=RR:2500\" in SDP
answer.\ 9) Re-run steps 2-6 and note the test result from step 6.
Stop condition: At least 10 minutes, or 100 RTCP packets are sent from the
SUT, whichever time is less, in each of steps 7 and 9.
Pass criteria: 1)$B \leq 2500\ bit/s$, from step 7 of this test.\ 2)$B \leq
2500\ bit/s$, from step 9 of this test.
Comments: Pass criteria 1 and 2 are identical because the proportion of
senders in this point-to-point RTP session (100 %) is larger than RS/(RS+RR)
and all RTP senders get their proportion of the (RS+RR) sum (see section 2 of
IETF RFC 3556 [6]).\ The calculations of bandwidth limits are seemingly not in
accordance with the definition of IETF RFC 3556 section 2 that says \"RS\"
indicates the RTCP bandwidth allocated to active data senders and \"RR\"
indicates the RTCP bandwidth allocated to other participants in the RTP
session (all RTP streams that are sent and received in the RTP session), but
3GPP specifications commonly interpret SDP b= lines as receive bandwidth seen
from the part sending the SDP, which is thus only half of the actual RTP
session bandwidth in a bandwidth-symmetric point-to-point session.
#### 6.2.3.4 RTCP Timeout Test
Purpose: Test if an RTP stream received by the SUT that is stopped at the
sender without any explicit RTCP BYE times out correctly in the SUT and is
reflected as such in the subsequent receiver reporting from the SUT _._
Status: Conditionally Mandatory (Precondition 1)
Preconditions: 1) The SUT is capable of using multiple simultaneous RTP
streams in a single RTP session.\ 2) The SUT has passed tests 6.2.2.1, 6.2.2.3
and 6.2.2.5.\ 3) The data injection to the SUT is possible to control
dynamically during an ongoing RTP session to turn sending of RTP packets on
and off, without any indication in session signalling and while keeping the
RTP session.
Test procedure: 1) Set the data injection to send RTP packets to the SUT.\ 2)
Observe the SUT output until at least one RTCP packet is sent from the SUT.\
3) Set the data injection to not send RTP packets to the SUT, not sending any
RTCP BYE for the stopped RTP stream SSRC.\ 4) Observe the SUT output.
Stop condition: Six (6) RTCP packets are sent from the SUT after step 3 in the
test procedure.
Pass criteria: The 6^th^ RTCP packet sent from the SUT contains a Sender
Report or Receiver Report that does _not_ contain any report block for the
stopped SSRC from data injection.
Comments: An SSRC for which no packets have been received during (per default)
5 or more RTCP intervals will be timed out, as described by section 6.3.5 of
IETF RFC 3550 [2]. The stopped SSRC may be omitted in RTCP reporting from the
SUT (but not timed out) already for the first RTCP reporting interval where no
RTP packets for that SSRC reaches the SUT, as described by section 6.4 of IETF
RFC 3550. The current test procedure and pass criteria do not test if RTCP
bandwidth allocated to the SSRC that was timed out is correctly re-allocated
to the remaining SSRCs, which may be added in a subsequent version of the
present document.
#### 6.2.3.5 RTCP Step Join Backoff Receiver Test
Purpose: Test if the time between first and second RTCP packet sent from the
SUT is appropriate (using sufficiently low but not too low RTCP bandwidth)
when the SUT is joining as RTP receiver (non-sender) in an RTP session that
the SUT can discover to already contain many participants, as described by
section 6.2 of IETF RFC 3550 [2] and section 2.4.2 of IETF RFC 3158 [3]_._
For Further Study.
#### 6.2.3.6 RTCP Step Join Backoff Sender Test
Purpose: Test if the time between first and second RTCP packet sent from the
SUT is appropriate (using sufficiently low but not too low RTCP bandwidth)
when the SUT is joining as RTP sender in an RTP session that the SUT can
discover to already contain many participants, as described by section 6.2 of
IETF RFC 3550 [2] and section 2.4.2 of IETF RFC 3158 [3]_._
For Further Study.
### 6.2.4 Sender Report Sender Info Tests
#### 6.2.4.1 Sender SSRC Test
Purpose: Test if all SSRC values included in RTCP sender information sent from
the SUT corresponds to the SSRC of an RTP stream sent from the SUT, and that
there are corresponding RTCP sender information for all RTP streams (one or
more) sent from the SUT _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed test 6.2.2.3.\ 2) The SUT is set to send
RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured or set as send-
receive or send-only through test instrument signalling.\ 3) The number of
simultaneously used SSRC identifiers to be sent by the SUT in the RTP session
is known a-priori (only one in the single-stream case).
Test procedure: Observe the SUT output.
Stop condition: 1) RTP packets are sent by the SUT.\ 2) At least three RTCP
packets are sent per used SSRC identifier from the SUT (at least the first
RTCP packet may be sent before first RTP packet for each SSRC).
Pass criteria: 1) The \"SSRC of sender\" header field in all RTCP packets sent
by the SUT contains a value that is identical to the \"synchronization source
(SSRC) identifier\" header field in at least one of the RTP packets sent by
the SUT.\ 2) The \"synchronization source (SSRC) identifier\" header field in
all RTP packets sent by the SUT contains a value that is identical to the
\"SSRC of sender\" header field in at least one of the RTCP packets sent by
the SUT.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being received by the SUT
or not.
#### 6.2.4.2 NTP Test
Purpose: Test if the NTP timestamp field in successive RTCP packets sent from
the SUT progresses with a consistent clock rate, and that the used NTP time
format is correct (seconds in the high 32 bits)_._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed test 6.2.2.3.\ 2) The SUT is set to send
RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured or set as send-
receive or send-only through test instrument signalling.\ 3) The \"NTP
timestamp\" field in the RTCP packet Sender Information from the SUT is
monotonously increasing (value is not wrapping around, see also test
6.2.4.3).\ 4) The test network and test equipment contributes with an amount
of time jitter that is insignificant to the test result.
Test procedure: 1) Observe the SUT output.\ 2) Note the reception time
($t_{i}$) and NTP timestamp field value ($w_{i}$) of each RTCP packet sent
from the SUT.\ 3) Count the number of RTCP packets, $n$, sent from the SUT.\
4) Using the first and last RTCP packets sent from the SUT, calculate the
difference in reception time,\ $I = t_{n} - t_{1}$, and difference in NTP
time, $N = w_{n} - w_{1}$.\ 5) Calculate the NTP timestamp clock rate estimate
$C = \frac{N}{I}$.
Stop condition: 1) RTP packets are sent from the SUT.\ 2) At least 30 seconds
have passed from the first RTCP packet was sent from the SUT.
Pass criteria: $0.999 \leq \frac{C}{2^{32}} \leq 1.001$.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being received by the SUT
or not.\ NTP time calculations require 64-bit integer arithmetic capability.\
The pass criterion corresponds to a minimum timestamp clock accuracy of 0.1 %
but a much higher accuracy should in general be expected. The test setup can
introduce packet delay jitter impacting measurement accuracy, which is
mitigated by using a rather long test procedure and the above values are
chosen as a trade-off.
#### 6.2.4.3 Wrapped NTP Test
Purpose: Test if the NTP timestamp field in successive RTCP packets sent from
the SUT progresses with a consistent clock rate, even when the NTP timestamp
field wraps around _._
Status: Conditionally Mandatory (Precondition 3)
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed test 6.2.4.2.\ 2) The SUT is set to send
RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured or set as send-
receive or send-only through test instrument signalling.\ 3) The \"NTP
timestamp\" field in the first RTCP packet Sender Information sent from the
SUT is set to a value close to 2^64^-1 (when interpreted as an unsigned 64-bit
integer), such that the value will wrap during the test.\ 4) The test network
and test equipment contributes with an amount of time jitter that is
insignificant to the test result.
Test procedure: 1) Observe the SUT output.\ 2) Note the reception time
($t_{i}$) and NTP timestamp field value ($w_{i}$) of each RTCP packet sent
from the SUT.\ 3) Count the number of RTCP packets, $n$, sent from the SUT.\
4) Using the first and last RTCP packets sent from the SUT, calculate the
difference in reception time, $I = t_{n} - t_{1}$.\ 5) Using the first and
last RTCP packets with $w_{n} \" on the SDP \"a=rtpmap:\ \/\\" line, applicable for the RTP stream (SSRC) sent from the
SUT that the RTCP packets sent from the SUT are associated with.
Stop condition: 1) RTP packets are sent from the SUT.\ 2) At least 30 seconds
have passed from the first RTCP packet was sent from the SUT.
Pass criteria: $0.999 \leq \frac{R}{S} \leq 1.001$.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being received by the SUT
or not.\ NTP time calculations require 64-bit integer arithmetic capability.\
The pass criteria correspond to a minimum timestamp clock accuracy of 0.1 % in
relation to NTP time but a much higher accuracy should in general be expected.
#### 6.2.4.5 Wrapped Time Stamp Test
Purpose: Test if the RTP timestamp field in successive RTCP packets sent from
the SUT progresses with a clock rate that, in relation to the NTP timestamp
field, is reasonably close to the set rate, e.g. from \"a=rtpmap\" line in
SDP, even when the RTP timestamp field wraps around _._
Status: Conditionally Mandatory (Precondition 3)
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed test 6.2.4.4.\ 2) The SUT is set to send
RTP packets for a single RTP stream (one SSRC) during the test session, e.g.
pre-configured or set as send-receive or send-only through test instrument
signalling.\ 3) The \"RTP timestamp\" field in the first RTCP packet Sender
Information sent from the SUT is set to a value close to 2^32^-1 (when
interpreted as an unsigned 32-bit integer), such that the value will wrap
during the test.
Test procedure: 1) Observe the SUT output.\ 2) Note the NTP timestamp field
value ($w_{i}$) and RTP timestamp field value ($r_{i}$) of each RTCP packet
sent from the SUT.\ 3) Count the number of RTCP packets, $n$, sent from the
SUT.\ 4) Using the first and last RTCP packets sent from the SUT, calculate
the difference in NTP time,\ $N = w_{n} - w_{1}$.\ 5) Calculate the NTP
timestamp difference in seconds $D = \frac{N}{2^{32}}$.\ 6) Using the first
and last RTCP packets with $r_{n} \" on the SDP
\"a=rtpmap:\ \/\\" line, applicable
for the RTP stream (SSRC) sent from the SUT that the RTCP packets sent from
the SUT are associated with.
Stop condition: 1) RTP packets are sent from the SUT.\ 2) At least 30 seconds
have passed from the first RTCP packet was sent from the SUT.\ 3) The \"RTP
timestamp\" field in the last RTCP packet Sender Information sent from the SUT
is less than the \"RTP timestamp\" field in the first RTCP packet Sender
Information sent from the SUT, when interpreting those fields as unsigned
32-bit integers.
Pass criteria: $0.999 \leq \frac{R}{S} \leq 1.001$.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being received by the SUT
or not.\ NTP time calculations require 64-bit integer arithmetic capability.\
The pass criteria correspond to a minimum timestamp clock accuracy of 0.1 % in
relation to NTP time but a much higher accuracy should in general be expected.
#### 6.2.4.6 Packet Count Test
Purpose: Test if the reported packet count in RTCP sent from the SUT
corresponds with RTP packets sent from the SUT _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed test 6.2.2.3.\ 2) The SUT is set to send
RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured or set as send-
receive or send-only through test instrument signalling.
Test procedure: 1) Observe the SUT output.\ 2) Note the \"sender\'s packet
count\" field ($p_{i}$) of each RTCP packet sent from the SUT.\ 3) Count the
number of RTCP packets ($n$) sent from the SUT.\ 4) Count and note the number
of RTP packets ($P_{i}$) sent from the SUT between each pair $\left{ i - 1,\ i
\right}$ of subsequent RTCP packets sent from the SUT.\ 5) For each pair of
subsequent RTCP packets, calculate the difference in packet count,\ $d_{i} =
p_{i} - p_{i - 1},\ i\epsilon\left\lbrack 2..n \right\rbrack$.
Stop condition: 1) RTP packets are sent from the SUT.\ 2) At least three RTCP
packets are sent from the SUT after the first RTP packet sent from the SUT
(one or more RTCP packets may be sent before first RTP packet).
Pass criteria: $d_{i} = \ P_{i},\ for\ all\ i \in \left\lbrack 2..n
\right\rbrack$.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being received by the SUT
or not.
#### 6.2.4.7 Wrapped Packet Count Test
Purpose: Test if the reported packet count in RTCP sent from the SUT
corresponds with RTP packets sent from the SUT, even when the \"sender\'s
packet count\" field wraps around _._
Status: Conditionally Mandatory (Precondition 3)
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed test 6.2.4.6.\ 2) The SUT is set to send
RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured or set as send-
receive or send-only through test instrument signalling.\ 3) The \"sender\'s
packet count\" field in the first RTCP packet Sender Information sent from the
SUT is set to a value close to 2^32^-1 (when interpreted as an unsigned 32-bit
integer), such that the value will wrap during the test.
Test procedure: 1) Observe the SUT output.\ 2) Note the \"sender\'s packet
count\" field ($p_{i}$) of each RTCP packet sent from the SUT.\ 3) Count the
number of RTCP packets ($n$) sent from the SUT.\ 4) Count and note the number
of RTP packets ($P_{i}$) sent from the SUT between each pair $\left{ i - 1,\ i
\right}$ of subsequent RTCP packets sent from the SUT.\ 5) For each pair of
subsequent RTCP packets where $p_{i} \geq p_{i - 1}$ when interpreting $p_{i}$
and $p_{i - 1}$ as unsigned 32-bit values, calculate the difference in packet
count, $d_{i} = p_{i} - p_{i - 1},\ i\epsilon\left\lbrack 2..n
\right\rbrack$.\ 6) For each pair of subsequent RTCP packets where $p_{i} \" on the SDP
\"a=rtpmap:\ \/\\" line, applicable
for the SSRC sent from the SUT that the RTCP packets sent from the SUT are
associated with ($s_{i} = S_{j}$).\ 7) For at least one RTCP and RTP packet
pair for each SSRC value to be tested (indexed with $k$), calculate the
nominal playout time $C_{k} = \frac{w_{k}}{2^{32}} + \frac{\left( T_{k} -
r_{k} \right)}{R_{k}}$, where $w_{k}$, $r_{k}$, $s_{k}$, and $c_{k}$ belong to
a single RTCP packet, and $T_{k}$ is taken from a corresponding RTP packet
with $S_{k} = s_{k}$.
Stop condition: 1) At least one RTP packet from all RTP streams (different
SSRC identifiers, $S_{j}$) to be synchronized are sent from the SUT.\ 2) At
least one RTCP packet are sent from the SUT per used SSRC identifier, i.e.
there exist both $s_{i}$ and $S_{j}$ with all SSRC values that are to be
included in the test (the first RTCP packet may be sent before first RTP
packet for each SSRC).
Pass criteria: The following is fulfilled for each SSRC value ($s_{k}$) to be
tested, used by RTCP and RTP packets sent from the SUT:\ 1) The CNAME SDES
item field values ($c_{k}$) are identical (if not, they are not intended to be
synchronized).\ 2) The nominal playout times ($C_{k}$) of an RTP packet using
the tested SSRC value ($s_{k}$) and an RTP packet using a different tested
SSRC value ($s_{k + 1}$) that are received no more than 500 ms apart ($\left|
\left( t_{k + 1} - t_{k} \right) \right| \leq 0.5$), are no more than 300 ms
apart when adjusted for the difference in reception time; $\left| \left( C_{k
+ 1} - C_{k} \right) - \left( t_{k + 1} - t_{k} \right) \right| \leq 0.3$.
Comments: This test only verifies that RTP streams sent from the SUT that are
meant to be synchronized, are reasonably possible to synchronize based on RTP
and RTCP information and RTP packet jitter for those RTP streams. It cannot
and does not test how closely they will be synchronized on playout in the
receiver since the details of RTP stream synchronization depends on the
receiver implementation.\ The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being
received by the SUT or not.
### 6.2.5 Source Description (SDES) Tests
#### 6.2.5.1 Basic SDES Test
Purpose: Test if RTCP SDES packets sent from the SUT fulfils a few basic
criteria for content and length consistency _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed test 6.2.2.6.\ 2) The SUT is set to send
RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured or set as send-
receive or send-only through test instrument signalling.
Test procedure: Observe the SUT output.
Stop condition: 1) RTP packets are sent from the SUT.\ 2) At least three RTCP
packets are sent from the SUT per used SSRC identifier (at least the first
RTCP packet may be sent before first RTP packet for each SSRC).
Pass criteria: The following is fulfilled for all RTCP SDES packets sent from
the SUT:\ 1) The source count (SC) header field matches the number of SDES
item chunks included in the respective RTCP SDES packet.\ 2) Each SDES item
chunk ends with at least one octet containing a zero value.\ 3) Each SDES item
in a chunk has a length field that corresponds to the text content length in
octets of that SDES item, corresponding to the distance in octets starting
from the octet after that length field until the start of the next SDES item
or until the terminating zero value octet (see above).\ 4) Each SDES item in a
chunk with non-zero content length has a text content where the last octet
value is not zero (is not a zero-terminated string).
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being received by the SUT
or not.
#### 6.2.5.2 Canonical End-point Identifier (CNAME) Test
Purpose: Test if CNAME content is identical for every RTCP packet sent from
the SUT belonging to the same RTP stream _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed test 6.2.5.1.\ 2) The SUT is set to send
RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured or set as send-
receive or send-only through test instrument signalling.
Test procedure: 1) Observe the SUT output.\ 2) Note the \"SSRC of sender\"
field ($s_{i}$) and CNAME SDES item field ($c_{i}$) values of each RTCP packet
sent from the SUT.\ 3) Count the number of RTCP packets ($n$) sent from the
SUT.
Stop condition: 1) RTP packets are sent from the SUT.\ 2) At least three RTCP
packets are sent from the SUT per used SSRC identifier after sending the first
RTP packet from the SUT for that SSRC identifier (one or more RTCP packets may
be sent before first RTP packet for each SSRC).
Pass criteria: $c_{i} = \ c_{j},\ for\ all\ i \in \left\lbrack 1..n
\right\rbrack\ and\ j \in \left\lbrack 1..n \right\rbrack\text{\ where\ }s_{i}
= s_{j}$.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being received by the SUT
or not.
### 6.2.6 Receiver Report Block Tests
#### 6.2.6.1 SSRC Consistency Test
Purpose: Test if the SSRC value included in a RTCP report block sent from the
SUT corresponds to the SSRC of an RTP stream received by the SUT _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed tests 6.2.2.6, and 6.2.2.7.\ 2) The SUT
is set to receive RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured or
set as send-receive or receive-only through test instrument signalling.\ 3)
Data injection is set to send RTP.
Test procedure: Observe the SUT and data injection output.
Stop condition: An RTCP packet is sent from the SUT, containing at least a
receiver report block.
Pass criteria: The SSRC value in the RTCP report block sent from the SUT can
be found as RTP header SSRC field value in at least one of the RTP packets
sent from data injection.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being sent by the SUT or
not.\ A report block sent by the SUT containing an SSRC value identical to the
SSRC value in the RTP header of RTP packets received by the SUT is henceforth
denoted as the SUT \"reporting on\" the RTP stream those RTP packets belong
to.
#### 6.2.6.2 SSRC Completeness Test
Purpose: Test if all RTP streams (all SSRC) sent by data injection and
received by the SUT in the RTP session are reported on by the SUT, while
allowing that not all RTP streams are reported in every RTCP packet (e.g. due
to RTCP packet MTU restrictions)_._
Status: Conditionally Mandatory (Precondition 1)
Preconditions: 1) The SUT is capable of using multiple simultaneous RTP
streams in a single RTP session.\ 2) The SUT has passed test 6.2.6.1.\ 3) The
SUT is set to receive RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured
or set as send-receive or receive-only through test instrument signalling.\ 4)
Data injection is set to send RTP.\ 5) The number of simultaneously used,
unique, SSRC values sent by the data injection in the RTP session ($m$) is
known a-priori (only one in the single-stream case).
Test procedure: 1) Observe SUT and data injection output.\ 2) Note which SSRC
values ($S_{i}$) that are included in RTCP report blocks sent from the SUT.\
3) Count the number of RTCP packets ($n$) sent from the SUT.\ 4) Note which
SSRC values ($R_{j}$) that are included in RTP headers of RTP packets sent
from data injection.\ 5) Calculate the number of unique SSRC values ($k$) in
report blocks sent from the SUT.
Stop condition: 1) At least one RTP packet with SSRC value $R_{j}$ is sent
from data injection for all $j \in \left\lbrack 1..m \right\rbrack$.\ 2) $k =
m$.
Pass criteria: $\left{ S_{i} \right} = \left{ R_{j} \right}\ for\ all\ i \in
\left\lbrack 1..n \right\rbrack\ and\ j \in \left\lbrack 1..m \right\rbrack$.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being sent by the SUT or
not.
#### 6.2.6.3 SSRC Change Test
Purpose: Test if an RTP stream received by the SUT that changes SSRC is
correctly reported on by the SUT, keeping reporting separate per used SSRC
value.
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed tests 6.2.6.4 and 6.2.6.6.\ 2) The SUT is
set to receive RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured or set
as send-receive or receive-only through test instrument signalling.\ 3) Data
injection is set to send a single RTP stream (one SSRC, $S_{i}$) with
monotonically increasing RTP sequence number (SN), and with the first RTP
packet sent containing a non-zero RTP sequence number (SN), with a packet loss
status that can be changed during the test session according to the test
procedure without change in session signalling towards the SUT.
Test procedure: 1) Observe SUT and data injection output.\ 2) Send RTP packets
for SSRC $S_{i}$ from data injection to the SUT with a low but nonzero amount
of RTP packet loss. The exact amount of RTP packet loss and loss pattern is
not important and may be chosen freely by the test equipment.\ 3) Continue
sending RTP packets for SSRC $S_{i}$ from data injection to the SUT, without
any RTP packet loss.\ 4) Note the fraction lost ($f_{i}$) and cumulative
number of packets lost ($c_{i}$) for an RTCP report block sent from the SUT,
reporting on the RTP stream with SSRC $S_{i}$ sent from data injection. There
may be multiple such RTCP reports sent from the SUT and the test may choose
any of those.\ 5) Change the used SSRC to $S_{i + 1} \neq S_{i}$ for RTP
packets sent from data injection to the SUT (and stop sending any RTP packets
with SSRC $S_{i}$), with other RTP header fields across the transition kept as
if SSRC was not changed (keeping payload type, sequence number incremented by
one, timestamp incremented similar to before, etc), still without any RTP
packet loss.\ 6) Note the fraction lost ($f_{i + 1}$) and cumulative number of
packets lost ($c_{i + 1}$) for an RTCP report block sent from the SUT,
reporting on the RTP stream with SSRC $S_{i + 1}$ sent from data injection.
There may be multiple such RTCP reports sent from the SUT and the test shall
choose the first one sent after the RTP SSRC change.
Stop condition: An RTCP packet is sent from the SUT, containing at least a
receiver report block reporting on the RTP stream with SSRC $S_{i + 1}$ from
data injection.
Pass criteria: 1) $c_{i} \neq 0$ and $f_{i} \neq 0$.\ 2) $c_{i + 1} = 0$ and
$f_{i + 1} = 0$.
Comments: The interarrival jitter field of the RTCP receiver report is, like
cumulative number of packets lost and fraction lost fields in this test, also
not kept across SSRC changes but restart from zero jitter. It is however
deliberately not included as part of this test because it is hard to require
the test equipment to achieve entirely predictable jitter or not introduce any
jitter at all, to be able to construct a repeatable jitter pass criteria.\ The
test result is agnostic to RTP packets being sent by the SUT or not.
#### 6.2.6.4 Initial Zero Loss Test
Purpose: Test if loss-free reception of RTP packets by the SUT at RTP session
start is correctly reported by the SUT as no loss in RTCP, even if the initial
RTP sequence number is non-zero _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed test 6.2.6.1.\ 2) The SUT is set to
receive RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured or set as
send-receive or receive-only through test instrument signalling.\ 3) Data
injection is set to send a single RTP stream (one SSRC) without loss, with
monotonically increasing RTP sequence number (SN), and with the first RTP
packet sent containing a non-zero RTP sequence number (SN).
Test procedure: Observe the SUT and data injection output.
Stop condition: 1) RTP packets are sent from data injection.\ 2) An RTCP
packet is sent from the SUT, containing at least a receiver report block
reporting on the RTP stream from data injection.
Pass criteria: The report block in the RTCP packet sent from the SUT reporting
on the RTP stream from data injection fulfils:\ 1) The fraction lost report
block field is zero.\ 2) The cumulative number of packets lost report block
field is zero.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being sent by the SUT or
not.
#### 6.2.6.5 Zero Loss Test
Purpose: Test if loss-free reception of RTP packets by the SUT during a
reporting period is correctly reflected in the RTCP report sent by the SUT _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed test 6.2.6.4.\ 2) The SUT is set to
receive RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured or set as
send-receive or receive-only through test instrument signalling.\ 3) Data
injection is set to send a single RTP stream (one SSRC) without loss and with
monotonically increasing RTP sequence number (SN).
Test procedure: Observe the SUT and data injection output.
Stop condition: 1) RTP packets are sent from data injection.\ 2) Two RTCP
packets are sent from the SUT, each containing at least a receiver report
block reporting on the RTP stream from data injection.
Pass criteria: The report block in the RTCP packets sent from the SUT,
reporting on the RTP stream from data injection fulfils:\ 1) The fraction lost
report block field is zero in the second RTCP packet sent from the SUT during
the test.\ 2) The cumulative number of packets lost report block field value
is identical in the first and second RTCP packet sent from the SUT during the
test.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being sent by the SUT or
not.
#### 6.2.6.6 Loss Test
Purpose: Test if the \"fraction lost\" and \"cumulative number of packets
lost\" fields in the receiver report sent from the SUT are consistent with one
another and with the \"extended last sequence number received\" field in the
same receiver report _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed tests 6.2.6.5 and 6.2.6.11.\ 2) The SUT
is set to receive RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured or
set as send-receive or receive-only through test instrument signalling.\ 3)
Data injection is set to send a single RTP stream (one SSRC) with loss
according to test procedure (below) and with monotonically increasing RTP
sequence number (SN).
Test procedure: 1) Observe the SUT and data injection output.\ 2) Note the
extended last sequence number received ($s_{i}$), fraction lost ($f_{i}$) and
cumulative number of packets lost ($c_{i}$) for each RTCP report block sent
from the SUT reporting on the RTP stream sent from data injection.\ 3) The
below steps of this test procedure are designed to be run multiple times,
using a few different loss patterns described in steps 5a)-5e) . Each
repetition of the below steps may be run in immediate succession (successive
RTCP reporting periods) or may be separated by loss-free RTCP periods. In
either case, it is the responsibility of the test setup to ensure that the RTP
packets dropped by data injection are reported on in the next RTCP report sent
from the SUT, e.g. by letting data injection drop RTP packets just after an
RTCP packet is sent from the SUT.\ 4) An RTCP packet, $i - 1$, is sent from
the SUT, reporting on the RTP stream from data injection. The value of $i$ and
its relation to how many RTCP packets that are actually sent by the SUT is
only significant in context of describing the test procedure and $i$ will be
different across the repetitions related to steps 5a)-5e).\ 5) Drop RTP
packets from data injection to the SUT according to the below sub-bullets, one
sub-bullet per repetition, $k$, of steps 4-10, where $n_{k}$ is the number of
dropped RTP packets in the RTCP reporting period for that repetition:\ a) A
single RTP packet;$\ k = 1,\ n_{1} = 1$.\ b) Two RTP packets in succession;$\
k = 2,\ n_{2} = 2$.\ c) Two RTP packets with three RTP packets in between;$\ k
= 3,\ n_{3} = 2$.\ d) Every 20^th^ RTP packet;$\ k = 4,\ n_{4} =
\frac{N_{k}}{20}$.\ e) Every 10^th^ RTP packet;$\ k = 5,\ n_{5} =
\frac{N_{k}}{10}$.\ 6) An RTCP packet, $i$, is sent from the SUT, reporting on
the RTP stream from data injection.\ 7) Calculate number of packets sent
(disregarding packet drops) $N_{k} = s_{i} - s_{i - 1}$.\ 8) Calculate
fraction lost $F_{k} = \left\lfloor 256\frac{n_{k}}{N_{k}} \right\rfloor$,
with $n_{k}$ set according to 5a) -- 5e) above.\ 9) Calculate packets lost
$L_{k} = c_{i} - c_{i - 1}$.\ 10) Repeat from step 4.
Stop condition: Step 9 is fulfilled for $k = 5$, repetition 5e).
Pass criteria: 1) $f_{i} = F_{k},\ for\ all\ k \in \left\lbrack 1..5
\right\rbrack$.\ 2) $L_{k} = \left\lfloor n_{k} \right\rfloor,\ for\ all\ k
\in \left\lbrack 1..5 \right\rbrack$.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being sent by the SUT or
not.\ It is assumed that the information in extended last sequence number
received is correct (see test 6.2.6.11) and enough to correlate with actual,
observed RTP packet loss.
#### 6.2.6.7 Wrapped Loss Test
Purpose: Test if the \"fraction lost\" and \"cumulative number of packets
lost\" fields in the receiver report sent from the SUT are consistent with one
another and with the \"extended last sequence number received\" field in the
same receiver report, even when the RTP \"sequence number\" field in RTP
packets sent from data injection wraps around _._
Status: Conditionally Mandatory (Precondition 4)
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed tests 6.2.6.6 and 6.2.6.12.\ 2) The SUT
is set to receive RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured or
set as send-receive or receive-only through test instrument signalling.\ 3)
Data injection is set to send a single RTP stream (one SSRC) with loss
according to test procedure (below).\ 4) The \"sequence number\" (SN) field in
the first RTP packet sent from data injection is set to a value close to
2^16^-1 (when interpreted as an unsigned 16-bit integer) in step 5 of the test
procedure, such that the value will wrap during each repetition of the test.
Test procedure: 1) Observe the SUT and data injection output.\ 2) Note the
extended last sequence number received ($s_{i}$), fraction lost ($f_{i}$) and
cumulative number of packets lost ($c_{i}$) for each RTCP report block sent
from the SUT reporting on the RTP stream sent from data injection.\ 3) The
below steps of this test procedure are designed to be run multiple times,
using a few different loss patterns described in steps 5a)-5e) . Each
repetition of the below steps may be run in immediate succession (successive
RTCP reporting periods) or may be separated by loss-free RTCP periods. In
either case, it is the responsibility of the test setup to ensure that the RTP
packets dropped by data injection are reported on in the next RTCP report sent
from the SUT, e.g. by letting data injection drop RTP packets just after an
RTCP packet is sent from the SUT.\ 4) An RTCP packet, $i - 1$, is sent from
the SUT, reporting on the RTP stream from data injection. The value of $i$ and
its relation to how many RTCP packets that are actually sent by the SUT is
only significant in context of describing the test procedure and $i$ will be
different across the repetitions related to steps 5a)-5e).\ 5) Drop RTP
packets from data injection to the SUT according to the below sub-bullets, one
sub-bullet per repetition, $k$, of steps 4-10, where $n_{k}$ is the number of
dropped RTP packets in the RTCP reporting period for that repetition:\ a) A
single RTP packet; $k = 1,\ n_{1} = 1$.\ b) Two RTP packets in succession; $k
= 2,\ n_{2} = 2$.\ c) Two RTP packets with three RTP packets in between; $k =
3,\ n_{3} = 2$.\ d) Every 20^th^ RTP packet; $k = 4,\ n_{4} =
\frac{N_{k}}{20}$.\ e) Every 10^th^ RTP packet; $k = 5,\ n_{5} =
\frac{N_{k}}{10}$.\ 6) An RTCP packet, $i$, is sent from the SUT, reporting on
the RTP stream from data injection.\ 7) Calculate number of packets sent
(disregarding packet drops) $N_{k} = s_{i} - s_{i - 1}$.\ 8) Calculate
fraction lost $F_{k} = \left\lfloor 256\frac{n_{k}}{N_{k}} \right\rfloor$,
with $n_{k}$ set according to 5a) -- 5e) above.\ 9) Calculate packets lost
$L_{k} = c_{i} - c_{i - 1}$.\ 10) Repeat from step 4.
Stop condition: Step 9 is fulfilled for $\ k = 5$, repetition 5e).
Pass criteria: 1) $f_{i} = F_{k},\ for\ all\ k \in \left\lbrack 1..5
\right\rbrack$.\ 2) $L_{k} = \left\lfloor n_{k} \right\rfloor,\ for\ all\ k
\in \left\lbrack 1..5 \right\rbrack$.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being sent by the SUT or
not.\ It is assumed that the information in extended last sequence number
received is correct (see test 6.2.6.12) and enough to correlate with actual,
observed RTP packet loss.
#### 6.2.6.8 Duplicate Loss Test
Purpose: Test if the \"fraction lost\" and \"cumulative number of packets
lost\" fields in the receiver report sent from the SUT are consistent with one
another and with the \"extended last sequence number received\" field in the
same receiver report, even when receiving duplicate RTP packets (with
duplicate values in \"sequence number\" field) sent from data injection _._
Status: Conditionally Mandatory (Precondition 4)
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed test 6.2.6.6.\ 2) The SUT is set to
receive RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured or set as
send-receive or receive-only through test instrument signalling.\ 3) Data
injection is set to send a single RTP stream (one SSRC) with loss according to
test procedure (below).\ 4) Data injection is set to send some RTP packets
multiple times according to test procedure (below).
Test procedure: 1) Observe the SUT and data injection output.\ 2) Note the
extended last sequence number received ($s_{i}$), fraction lost ($f_{i}$) and
cumulative number of packets lost ($c_{i}$) for each RTCP report block sent
from the SUT reporting on the RTP stream sent from data injection.\ 3) The
below steps of this test procedure are designed to be run multiple times,
using a few different loss and duplication patterns described in steps 5a)-5e)
. Each repetition of the below steps may be run in immediate succession
(successive RTCP reporting periods) or may be separated by loss-free RTCP
periods. In either case, it is the responsibility of the test setup to ensure
that the RTP packets dropped or duplicated by data injection are reported on
in the next RTCP report sent from the SUT, e.g. by letting data injection drop
and duplicate RTP packets just after an RTCP packet is sent from the SUT.\ 4)
An RTCP packet, $i - 1$, is sent from the SUT, reporting on the RTP stream
from data injection. The value of $i$ and its relation to how many RTCP
packets that are actually sent by the SUT is only significant in context of
describing the test procedure and $i$ will be different across the repetitions
related to steps 5a)-5e).\ 5) Drop and duplicate RTP packets from data
injection to the SUT according to the below sub-bullets, one sub-bullet per
repetition, $k$, of step 4-10, where $n_{k}$ is the number of dropped RTP
packets and $r_{k}$ is the number of duplicated RTP packets in the RTCP
reporting period for that repetition:\ a) Drop a single RTP packet, duplicate
a single non-dropped RTP packet;\ $k = 1,\ n_{1} = 1,\ r_{1} = 1$.\ b) Drop
two RTP packets in succession, duplicate a single non-dropped RTP packet;\ $k
= 2,\ n_{2} = 2,\ r_{2} = 1$.\ c) Drop two RTP packets with three RTP packets
in between, duplicate three non-dropped RTP packets;\ $k = 3,\ n_{3} = 2,\
r_{3} = 3$.\ d) Drop every 20^th^ RTP packet, duplicate every 20^th^ non-
dropped RTP packet;\ $k = 4,\ n_{4} = \frac{N_{k}}{20},\ r_{4} =
\frac{{19N}_{k}}{400}$.\ e) Drop every 10^th^ RTP packet, duplicate every
20^th^ non-dropped RTP packet;\ $k = 5,\ n_{5} = \frac{N_{k}}{10},\ r_{4} =
\frac{{9N}_{k}}{200}$.\ 6) An RTCP packet, $i$, is sent from the SUT,
reporting on the RTP stream from data injection.\ 7) Calculate number of
packets sent (disregarding packet drops and duplications) $N_{k} = s_{i} -
s_{i - 1}$.\ 8) Calculate fraction lost $F_{k} = \left\lfloor 256\frac{\left(
n_{k} - r_{k} \right)}{N_{k}} \right\rfloor$, with $n_{k}$ and $r_{k}$ set
according to 5a) -- 5e) above.\ 9) Calculate packets lost $L_{k} = c_{i} -
c_{i - 1}$.\ 10) Repeat from step 4.
Stop condition: Step 9 is fulfilled for $k = 5$, repetition 5e).
Pass criteria: 1) $f_{i} = F_{k},\ for\ all\ k \in \left\lbrack 1..5
\right\rbrack$.\ 2) $L_{k} = \left\lfloor n_{k} - r_{k} \right\rfloor,\ for\
all\ k \in \left\lbrack 1..5 \right\rbrack$.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being sent by the SUT or
not.\ It is assumed that the information in extended last sequence number
received is correct (see test 6.2.6.11) and enough to correlate with actual,
observed RTP packet loss.
#### 6.2.6.9 Out-of-sequence Loss Test
Purpose: Test if the \"fraction lost\" and \"cumulative number of packets
lost\" fields in the receiver report sent from the SUT are consistent with one
another and with the \"extended last sequence number received\" field in the
same receiver report, even when the SUT is receiving RTP packets with the
\"sequence number\" field not monotonically incrementing _._
Status: Conditionally Mandatory (Precondition 3)
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed test 6.2.6.6.\ 2) The SUT set to receive
RTP packets during the test session, e.g. is pre-configured or set as send-
receive or receive-only through test instrument signalling.\ 3) Data injection
is set to send a single RTP stream (one SSRC) with loss according to test
procedure (below) and where the \"sequence number\" field in the RTP packet
header is not generated with a constant increment of 1 (n, n+1, n+2, ...) but
with alternating increments of -1 and 3 (n+1, n, n+3, n+2, ...).
Test procedure: 1) Observe the SUT and data injection output.\ 2) Note the
extended last sequence number received ($s_{i}$), fraction lost ($f_{i}$) and
cumulative number of packets lost ($c_{i}$) for each RTCP report block sent
from the SUT reporting on the RTP stream sent from data injection.\ 3) The
below steps of this test procedure are designed to be run multiple times,
using a few different loss patterns described in steps 5a)-5e) . Each
repetition of the below steps may be run in immediate succession (successive
RTCP reporting periods) or may be separated by loss-free RTCP periods. In
either case, it is the responsibility of the test setup to ensure that the RTP
packets dropped by data injection are reported on in the next RTCP report sent
from the SUT, e.g. by letting data injection drop RTP packets just after an
RTCP packet is sent from the SUT.\ 4) An RTCP packet, $i - 1$, is sent from
the SUT, reporting on the RTP stream from data injection. The value of $i$ and
its relation to how many RTCP packets that are actually sent by the SUT is
only significant in context of describing the test procedure and $i$ will be
different across the repetitions related to steps 5a)-5e).\ 5) Drop RTP
packets from data injection to the SUT according to the below sub-bullets, one
sub-bullet per repetition, $k$, of steps 4-10, where $n_{k}$ is the number of
dropped RTP packets in the RTCP reporting period for that repetition:\ a) A
single RTP packet;\ $k = 1,\ n_{1} = 1$.\ b) Drop two RTP packets in
succession;\ $k = 2,\ n_{2} = 2$.\ c) Drop two RTP packets with three RTP
packets in between;\ $k = 3,\ n_{3} = 2$.\ d) Drop every 20^th^ RTP packet;\
$k = 4,\ n_{4} = \frac{N_{k}}{20}$.\ e) Drop every 10^th^ RTP packet;\ $k =
5,\ n_{5} = \frac{N_{k}}{10}$.\ 6) An RTCP packet, $i$, is sent from the SUT,
reporting on the RTP stream from data injection.\ 7) Calculate number of
packets sent (disregarding packet drops) $N_{k} = s_{i} - s_{i - 1}$.\ 8)
Calculate fraction lost $F_{k} = \left\lfloor 256\frac{n_{k}}{N_{k}}
\right\rfloor$, with $n_{k}$ set according to 5a) -- 5e) above.\ 9) Calculate
packets lost $L_{k} = c_{i} - c_{i - 1}$.\ 10) Repeat from step 4.
Stop condition: Step 9 is fulfilled for$k = 5$, repetition 5e).
Pass criteria: 1) $f_{i} = F_{k},\ for\ all\ k \in \left\lbrack 1..5
\right\rbrack$.\ 2) $L_{k} = \left\lfloor n_{k} \right\rfloor,\ for\ all\ k
\in \left\lbrack 1..5 \right\rbrack$.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being sent by the SUT or
not.\ It is assumed that the information in extended last sequence number
received is correct (see test 6.2.6.11) and enough to correlate with actual,
observed RTP packet loss.
#### 6.2.6.10 All Loss Test
Purpose: Test if no RTP packets being received by the SUT during one or more
reporting periods is correctly reflected in the RTCP reports sent by the SUT
when receiving RTP packets again _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed tests 6.2.6.4 and 6.2.6.5.\ 2) The SUT is
set to receive RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured or set
as send-receive or receive-only through test instrument signalling.\ 3) Data
injection is set to send a single RTP stream (one SSRC) with loss according to
the test procedure below.
Test procedure: 1) Observe SUT and data injection output.\ 2) Note the
cumulative number of packets lost ($c_{i}$) for each RTCP report block sent
from the SUT reporting on the RTP stream sent from data injection.\ 3) RTP
packets are sent from data injection.\ 4) An RTCP packet, $i = 1$, is sent
from the SUT, reporting on the RTP stream from data injection. This RTCP
packet is not necessarily the very first RTCP packet sent by the SUT in the
RTP session but just the first in the scope of this test. The value of $i$ and
its relation to how many RTCP packets that are actually sent by the SUT is
only significant in context of describing the test procedure.\ 5) All RTP
packets are prevented from reaching the SUT and dropped (not buffered),
without modifying the session as seen from the SUT, e.g. through proprietary
data injection interaction or through transport network actions.\ 6) Note the
sequence number $s_{1}$ of the last RTP packet reaching the SUT before the RTP
loss period.\ 6) At least two RTCP packets, $i \in \left\lbrack 2..n
\right\rbrack$, are sent from the SUT, reporting on the RTP stream from data
injection (the first one likely covering the beginning of the all-loss
period).\ 7) RTP packets are no longer prevented from reaching the SUT,
without modifying the session as seen from the SUT, e.g. through proprietary
data injection interaction or through transport network actions.\ 8) Note the
sequence number $s_{2}$ of the first RTP packet reaching the SUT after the RTP
loss period.
Stop condition: An RTCP packet, $i = n + 1$, is sent from the SUT after step 8
in the test procedure.
Pass criteria: The report block in RTCP packets sent from the SUT, reporting
on the RTP stream from data injection fulfils:\ 1) RTCP packets with $i \in
\left\lbrack 3..n \right\rbrack$ do not contain any report block for the SSRC
used by data injection and that was subjected to loss in step 5 of the test
procedure.\ 2) $c_{n + 1} = c_{1} + \left( s_{2} - s_{1} \right)$.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being sent by the SUT or
not. $s_{2}$ must be strictly larger than $s_{1}$ (i.e., not wrapped around)
for the pass criteria to work as currently formulated.
#### 6.2.6.11 Extended Highest Sequence Number Received Test
Purpose: Test if the \"extended last sequence number received\" field in the
receiver report sent from the SUT is consistent with RTP \"sequence number\"
field sent by data injection _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed test 6.2.6.1.\ 2) The SUT is set to
receive RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured or set as
send-receive or receive-only through test instrument signalling.\ 3) Data
injection is set to send a single RTP stream (one SSRC).\ 4) The \"sequence
number\" (SN) field in the first RTP packet sent from data injection is
monotonously increasing (see 6.2.6.12 for test of wrapped value).
Test procedure: 1) Observe the SUT and data injection output.\ 2) Note the
\"extended last sequence number received\" field ($e_{i}$) of each RTCP packet
sent from the SUT .\ 3) Count the number of RTCP packets ($n$) sent from the
SUT.\ 4) Count the number of sent RTP packets ($P_{i}$) sent from data
injection between each pair $\left{ i - 1,\ i \right}$ of subsequent RTCP
packets sent from the SUT. The value of $i$ and its relation to how many RTCP
packets that are actually sent by the SUT is only significant in context of
describing the test procedure.\ 5) Note the \"sequence number\" field
($s_{i,j}$) of each RTP packet sent by data injection, with $j \in
\left\lbrack 1..P_{i} \right\rbrack$.\ 6) Note the RTP packet number, $l_{i} =
j$, where $s_{i,j} = \left( e_{i}\ \%\ 2^{16} \right)$, or if no RTP packet
with such $s_{i,j}$ exists, set $l_{i} = 0$.
Stop condition: 1) RTP packets are sent from data injection.\ 2) At least
three RTCP packets are sent from the SUT after the first RTP packet from data
injection (one or more RTCP packets may be sent before first RTP packet).
Pass criteria: $l_{i} \in \left\lbrack 1..P_{i} \right\rbrack,\ for\ all\ i
\in \left\lbrack 2..n \right\rbrack$.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being sent by the SUT or
not.
#### 6.2.6.12 Wrapped Extended Highest Sequence Number Received Test
Purpose: Test if the \"extended last sequence number received\" field in the
receiver report sent from the SUT is consistent with RTP \"sequence number\"
field sent by data injection, even when the \"sequence number\" field wraps
around, and the extended part above 16 bits sent from the SUT is properly
incremented after wrap _._
Status: Conditionally Mandatory (Precondition 4)
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed test 6.2.6.11.\ 2) The SUT is set to
receive RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured or set as
send-receive or receive-only through test instrument signalling.\ 3) Data
injection is set to send a single RTP stream (one SSRC).\ 4) The \"sequence
number\" (SN) field in the first RTP packet sent from data injection is set to
a value close to 2^16^-1 (when interpreted as an unsigned 16-bit integer),
such that the value will wrap during the test.
Test procedure: 1) Observe the SUT and data injection output.\ 2) Note the
\"extended last sequence number received\" field ($e_{i}$) of each RTCP packet
sent from the SUT.\ 3) Count the number of RTCP packets ($n$) sent from the
SUT.\ 4) Count the number of sent RTP packets ($P_{i}$) sent from data
injection between each pair $\left{ i - 1,\ i \right}$ of subsequent RTCP
packets sent from the SUT. The value of $i$ and its relation to how many RTCP
packets that are actually sent by the SUT is only significant in context of
describing the test procedure.\ 5) Note the \"sequence number\" field
($s_{i,j}$) of each RTP packet send by data injection, with $j \in
\left\lbrack 1..P_{i} \right\rbrack$.\ 6) Note the RTP packet number, $l_{i} =
j$, where $s_{i,j} = \left( e_{i}\ \%\ 2^{16} \right)$, or if no RTP packet
with such $s_{i,j}$ is received, set $l_{i} = 0$.
Stop condition: 1) RTP packets are sent from data injection.\ 2) At least
three RTCP packets are sent from the SUT after the first RTP packet from data
injection (one or more RTCP packets may be sent before first RTP packet).\ 3)
$s_{1,1} > s_{n - 1,P_{n - 1}}$ when interpreted as unsigned 16-bit integers.
Pass criteria: 1) $l_{i} \in \left\lbrack 1..P_{i} \right\rbrack,\ for\ all\ i
\in \left\lbrack 2..n \right\rbrack$.\ 2) $\left( e_{n} \gg 16 \right) -
\left( e_{1} \gg 16 \right) = 1$.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being sent by the SUT or
not.
#### 6.2.6.13 Out-of-sequence Extended Highest Sequence Number Received Test
Purpose: Test if the \"extended last sequence number received\" field in the
receiver report sent from the SUT is consistent with RTP \"sequence number\"
field sent by data injection, even when the \"sequence number\" field in RTP
packets sent by data injection is not monotonically incrementing _._
Status: Conditionally Mandatory (Precondition 3)
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed test 6.2.6.11.\ 2) The SUT is set to
receive RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured or set as
send-receive or receive-only through test instrument signalling.\ 3) Data
injection is set to send a single RTP stream (one SSRC) where the \"sequence
number\" field in the RTP packet header is not generated with a constant
increment of 1 (n, n+1, n+2, ...) but with alternating increments of -1 and 3
(n+1, n, n+3, n+2, ...).
Test procedure: 1) Observe the SUT and data injection output.\ 2) Note the
\"extended last sequence number received\" field ($e_{i}$) of each RTCP packet
sent from the SUT.\ 3) Count the number of RTCP packets ($n$) sent from the
SUT.\ 4) Count the number of sent RTP packets ($P_{i}$) sent from data
injection between each pair $\left{ i - 1,\ i \right}$ of subsequent RTCP
packets sent from the SUT. The value of $i$ and its relation to how many RTCP
packets that are actually sent by the SUT is only significant in context of
describing the test procedure.\ 5) Note the \"sequence number\" field
($s_{i,j}$) of each RTP packet sent by data injection, with $j \in
\left\lbrack 1..P_{i} \right\rbrack$.\ 6) Note the RTP packet number, $l_{i} =
j$, where $s_{i,j} = \left( e_{i}\ \%\ 2^{16} \right)$, or if no RTP packet
with such $s_{i,j}$ exists, set $l_{i} = 0$.
Stop condition: 1) RTP packets are sent from data injection.\ 2) At least
three RTCP packets are sent from the SUT after the first RTP packet from data
injection (one or more RTCP packets may be sent before first RTP packet).
Pass criteria: 1) $l_{i} \in \left\lbrack 1..P_{i} \right\rbrack,\ for\ all\ i
\in \left\lbrack 2..n \right\rbrack$.\ 2) $\left( e_{i}\ \%\ 2^{16} \right) =
\ \max_{j}{s_{i,j},}for\ all\ i \in \left\lbrack 2..n \right\rbrack\ and\ j
\in \left\lbrack 1..l_{i} \right\rbrack$.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being sent by the SUT or
not.
#### 6.2.6.14 Interarrival Jitter Test
Purpose: Test if the \"interarrival jitter\" field in the receiver report sent
from the SUT, as described by RTP [2] section 6.4.1, is consistent with RTP
packets sent by data injection _._
Status: Conditionally Mandatory (Precondition 3)
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed tests 6.2.4.2, 6.2.4.4, and 6.2.6.1.\ 2)
The SUT is set to receive RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-
configured or set as send-receive or receive-only through test instrument
signalling.\ 3) Data injection is set to send a single RTP stream (one SSRC)
that is subjected to delay variations according to delay and loss profiles
from TS 26.132 [11] Annex E.3.
Test procedure: 1) Observe the SUT and data injection output.\ 2) Retrieve RTP
Time Stamp rate information ($S$), e.g. from \"\\" on the SDP
\"a=rtpmap:\ \/\\" line used to set
up the SUT session, applicable for the RTP stream that the RTCP packets sent
from the SUT are associated with.\ 3) For each delay and loss profile $k$ from
dly_profile_20msDRX_10pctBLER_e2e and
dly_profile_20msDRX_10pctBLER_ue1_to_eNB2 in TS 26.131 [11] Annex E.3 (see
also Table 6.2.6.14-1 below), repeat the following steps:\ 4) Start data
injection sending RTP packets subjected to delay variations according to the
delay and loss profile.\ 5) Note the reception time ($t_{k,i}$) and
\"interarrival jitter\" ($j_{k,i}$) field in the report block of each RTCP
packet sent from the SUT.\ 6) Count the number of RTCP packets ($n_{k}$) sent
from the SUT.\ 7) Count the number of sent RTP packets ($P_{k,i}$) sent from
data injection between each pair $\left{ i - 1,\ i \right}$ of subsequent RTCP
packets sent from the SUT. The value of $i$ and its relation to how many RTCP
packets that are actually sent by the SUT is only significant in context of
describing the test procedure.\ 8) Note the reception time ($r_{k,i,j}$) and
\"timestamp\" field ($T_{k,i,j}$) of each RTP packet sent from data injection,
with $j \in \left\lbrack 1..P_{k,i} \right\rbrack$.\ 9) Calculate the arrival
time $a_{k,i,j} = T_{k,1,1} + \frac{\left( r_{k,i,j} - r_{k,1,1} \right)}{S}$
in timestamp units of each RTP packet sent from data injection, with $j \in
\left\lbrack 1..P_{k,i} \right\rbrack$, and where $r_{k,1,1}$ is the reception
time of the first received RTP packet with timestamp $T_{k,1,1}$ sent from
data injection.\ 10) Calculate the difference in RTP packet spacing $D_{k,i,j}
= \left( a_{k,i,j} - T_{k,i,j} \right) - \left( a_{k,i,j - 1} - T_{k,i,j - 1}
\right)$, with $j \in \left\lbrack 2..P_{k,i} \right\rbrack$.\ 11) Calculate
(not using integer arithmetic) the filtered RTP packet jitter $J_{k,i} =
\sum_{j = 2}^{P_{k,i}}s_{j}$, where $s_{j} = \frac{\left( \left| D_{k,i,j}
\right| - s_{j - 1} \right)}{16}$, with $s_{1} = J_{k,i - 1}$, where $J_{k,i -
1}$ corresponds to the filtered RTP packet jitter reported in previous RTCP
packet sent from the SUT, and $J_{k,1} = 0$.\ 12) When there are no more delay
and loss profile data to apply to RTP packets, stop sending RTP packets to
avoid further impact to $J_{k,i}$.
Stop condition: 1) RTP packets are sent from data injection.\ 2) At least one
RTCP packet is sent from the SUT after the last RTP packet from data
injection, for each delay and loss profile.
Pass criteria: $j_{k,n_{k}} = \left\lfloor J_{k,n_{k}} \right\rfloor$, for all
$k$, where expected, nominal values based only on delay and loss profile
content, excluding any data injection or test instrument implementation
impact, are (for information):\ \ **Table 6.2.6.14-1 Examples of delay and
loss profile jitter**
Delay and loss profile $$k$$ $$n_{k}$$ $${\left\lfloor J_{k,n_{k}}
\right\rfloor $${\left\lfloor J_{k,n_{k}} \right\rfloor }{S = 8000}$$ }{S =
16000}$$
* * *
dly_profile_20msDRX_10pctBLER_e2e 1 8000 93 186
dly_profile_20msDRX_10pctBLER_ue1_to_eNB2 2 8000 27 55
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being sent by the SUT or
not.
#### 6.2.6.15 Last Sender Report Timestamp Test
Purpose: Test if the LSR field in the receiver report from the SUT corresponds
to middle 32 bits of \"NTP timestamp\" 64-bit field for some previous RTCP
sender report sender info sent from data injection _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed test 6.2.2.6.\ 2) The SUT is set to
receive RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured or set as
send-receive or receive-only through test instrument signalling.\ 3) Data
injection is set to send a single RTP stream (one SSRC).
Test procedure: 1) Observe the SUT and data injection output.\ 2) Note the LSR
field ($L_{i}$) in the report block of each RTCP packet sent from the SUT.\ 3)
Count the number of RTCP packets ($n$) sent from the SUT.\ 4) Note the \"NTP
timestamp, most significant word\" ($m_{j}$) and \"NTP timestamp, least
significant word\" ($l_{j}$) fields in the sender information of each RTCP
packet sent from data injection.\ 5) Count the number of RTCP packets ($p$)
sent from data injection.\ 6) Calculate the reduced-precision last SR NTP time
$N_{j} = \left( \left( m_{j}\ \&\ \left( 2^{16} - 1 \right) \right) \ll 2^{16}
\right) + \left( l_{j} \gg 2^{16} \right)$ for each RTCP packet sent from data
injection, with $j \in \left\lbrack 1..p \right\rbrack$.\ 7) Note the RTCP
packet number sent from data injection, $q_{i} = j$, where $L_{i} = N_{j}$, or
if no RTCP packet with such $N_{j}$ exists, set $q_{i} = 0$.
Stop condition: 1) RTP packets are sent from data injection.\ 2) RTCP packets
are sent from data injection.\ 3) At least three RTCP packets with $L_{i} \neq
0$ are sent from the SUT after the first RTCP packet is sent from data
injection.
Pass criteria: $q_{i} > 0,\ for\ at\ least\ one\ i \in \left\lbrack 1..n
\right\rbrack$.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being sent by the SUT or
not.
#### 6.2.6.16 Delay Since Last SR Test
Purpose: Test if the reception time and delay since last SR field in the
receiver report from the SUT is consistent with observed reception time and
NTP timestamp field of the corresponding RTCP sender report sender info from
data injection _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT has passed test 6.2.6.15.\ 2) The SUT is set to
receive RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured or set as
send-receive or receive-only through test instrument signalling.\ 3) Data
injection is set to send a single RTP stream (one SSRC).
Test procedure: 1) Observe the SUT and data injection output.\ 2) Note the LSR
($L_{i}$) and \"delay since last LSR\" (DLSR) ($D_{i}$) fields in the report
block and reception time ($t_{i}$) of each RTCP packet sent from the SUT.\ 3)
Count the number of RTCP packets ($n$) sent from the SUT.\ 4) Note the \"NTP
timestamp, most significant word\" ($m_{j}$) and \"NTP timestamp, least
significant word\" ($l_{j}$) fields in the sender information, and reception
time ($r_{j}$) of each RTCP packet sent from data injection.\ 5) Count the
number of RTCP packets ($p$) sent from data injection.\ 6) Calculate the
reduced-precision last SR NTP time $N_{j} = \left( \left( m_{j}\ \&\ \left(
2^{16} - 1 \right) \right) \ll 2^{16} \right) + \left( l_{j} \gg 2^{16}
\right)$ for each RTCP packet sent from data injection, with $j \in
\left\lbrack 1..p \right\rbrack$.\ 7) Calculate the data injection reporting
interval $s_{j} = r_{j} - r_{j - 1}$, for $j \in \left\lbrack 2..p
\right\rbrack$.\ 8) Note the RTCP packet number sent from data injection,
$q_{i} = j$, where $L_{i} = N_{j}$, or if no RTCP packet with such $N_{j}$
exists, set $q_{i} = 0$.\ 9) Calculate the observed round-trip reporting time,
$d_{i} = r_{q_{i}} - t_{i}$ for all $i$ with $q_{i} \neq 0$, where $r_{q_{i}}$
is the $r_{j}$ with $q_{i} = j$.\ 10) Calculate the round-trip time, $R_{i} =
r_{q_{i}} - t_{i} - \frac{D_{i}}{65536}$ for all $i$ with $q_{i} \neq 0$.
Stop condition: 1) RTP packets are sent from data injection.\ 2) RTCP packets
are sent from data injection.\ 3) At least three RTCP packets with $L_{i} \neq
0$ and $D_{i} \neq 0$ are sent from the SUT after the first RTCP packet from
data injection.
Pass criteria: 1) $d_{i} \geq \frac{D_{i}}{65536}$ for all $i$ with $q_{i}
\neq 0$, i.e. the DLSR value cannot represent a longer time than the entire,
observed round-trip time.\ 2) $\frac{D_{i}}{65536} \leq \max_{j}s_{j}$ for all
$i$ with $q_{i} \neq 0$ and $j \in \left\lbrack 2..p \right\rbrack$, i.e. the
DLSR value cannot represent a time that exceeds an RTCP reporting interval.
Comments: This test only performs a sanity check of the DLSR field sent from
the SUT since the DLSR field value in general cannot be verified without close
knowledge of SUT detailed conditions and implementation.\ The test result is
agnostic to RTP packets being sent by the SUT or not.
### 6.2.7 Feedback Report Block Tests
#### 6.2.7.1 Ignoring Unknown Feedback Report Test
Purpose: Test if receiving an RTCP feedback report [7] of unknown (non-
negotiated) type is correctly ignored by the SUT without negative impact on
other RTP/RTCP operation _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT is set to not use RTCP Feedback messages during the
test session, e.g. pre-configured or through no \"a=rtcp-fb\" lines being
included in SDP signalling from the test instrument.\ 2) The SUT is set to
send RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured or set as send-
receive or send-only through test instrument signalling.
Test procedure: 1) Observe SUT output.\ 2) RTP and RTCP packets are sent from
the SUT.\ 3) Data injection sends an RTCP Feedback message to the SUT, as part
of a compound RTCP message starting with a RTCP SR or RR. The RTCP Feedback
message is characterized by the Payload Type (PT) field in the RTCP header set
to either 205 (RTPFB) or 206 (PSFB), and the Feedback Message Type (FMT) may
be chosen freely by data injection and set to any value.
Stop condition: One or more RTP packets and one or more RTCP packets are sent
by the SUT, or time has passed corresponding to at least three maximum RTCP
intervals (see clause 6.2.1).
Pass criteria: RTP and RTCP packets are sent by the SUT after step 3 in the
test procedure.
Comments: The test only tries to detect if the RTP/RTCP stack in the SUT is
operational after receiving an unexpected RTCP FB message in the sense that
RTP and RTCP packets are still sent from the SUT. The test does not check for
more detailed signs of SUT RTP/RTCP stack malfunction after receiving the
unexpected RTCP message.\ The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being
received by the SUT or not.
### 6.2.8 Extended Report Block Tests
#### 6.2.8.1 Ignoring Unknown XR Test
Purpose: Test if receiving an RTCP XR [13] packet of unknown (non-negotiated)
type is correctly ignored by the SUT without negative impact on other RTP/RTCP
operation _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT is set to not use RTCP XR messages during the test
session, e.g. pre-configured or through no \"a=rtcp-xr\" lines being included
in SDP signalling from the test instrument.\ 2) The SUT is set to send RTP
packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured or set as send-receive or
send-only through test instrument signalling.
Test procedure: 1) Observe SUT output.\ 2) RTP and RTCP packets are sent from
the SUT.\ 3) Data injection sends an RTCP Feedback message to the SUT, as part
of a compound RTCP message starting with a RTCP SR or RR. The RTCP Feedback
message is characterized by the Payload Type (PT) field in the RTCP header set
to 207, and the reserved bits are all set to zero.
Stop condition: One or more RTP packets and one or more RTCP packets are sent
by the SUT, or time has passed corresponding to at least three maximum RTCP
intervals (see clause 6.2.1).
Pass criteria: RTP and RTCP packets are sent by the SUT after step 3 in the
test procedure.
Comments: The test only tries to detect if the RTP/RTCP stack in the SUT is
operational after receiving an unexpected RTCP XR message in the sense that
RTP and RTCP packets are still sent from the SUT. The test does not check for
more detailed signs of SUT RTP/RTCP stack malfunction after receiving the
unexpected RTCP message.\ The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being
received by the SUT or not.
### 6.2.9 APP Tests
#### 6.2.9.1 Ignoring Unknown APP Test
Purpose: Test if receiving an RTCP APP packet (see section 6.7 of IETF RFC
3550 [2]) with unknown name is correctly ignored by the SUT without negative
impact on other RTP/RTCP operation _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT is set to send RTP packets during the test session,
e.g. pre-configured or set as send-receive or send-only through test
instrument signalling.
Test procedure: 1) Observe SUT output.\ 2) RTP and RTCP packets are sent from
the SUT.\ 3) Data injection sends an RTCP APP message to the SUT, as part of a
compound RTCP message starting with a RTCP SR or RR. The RTCP APP message is
characterized by the Payload Type (PT) field in the RTCP header set to 204,
the subtype field may be chosen freely by data injection and set to any value,
and the name field may be chosen freely by data injection from any sequence of
four ASCII characters, with the exception that if the SUT is known to
explicitly recognize APP messages with certain name field values, the name
field is not set to any of those values.
Stop condition: One or more RTP packets and one or more RTCP packets are sent
by the SUT, or time has passed corresponding to at least three maximum RTCP
intervals (see clause 6.2.1).
Pass criteria: RTP and RTCP packets are sent by the SUT after step 3 in the
test procedure.
Comments: The test only tries to detect if the RTP/RTCP stack in the SUT is
operational after receiving an unexpected RTCP APP message in the sense that
RTP and RTCP packets are still sent from the SUT. The test does not check for
more detailed signs of SUT RTP/RTCP stack malfunction after receiving the
unexpected RTCP message.\ The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being
received by the SUT or not.
### 6.2.10 Reduced-Size Packet Tests
#### 6.2.10.1 Ignoring Unsupported Reduced-Size Test
Purpose: Test if receiving a reduced-size RTCP packet [8] when its use is not
negotiated is correctly ignored by the SUT without negative impact on other
RTP/RTCP operation _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT is set to not use reduced-size RTCP messages during
the test session, e.g. pre-configured or through no \"a=rtcp-rsize\" lines
being included in SDP signalling from the test instrument.\ 2) The SUT is set
to send RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured or set as
send-receive or send-only through test instrument signalling.
Test procedure: 1) Observe SUT output.\ 2) RTP and RTCP packets are sent from
the SUT.\ 3) Data injection sends one or more compound RTCP messages to the
SUT.\ 4) Data injection sends a reduced-size RTCP message to the SUT, not a
compound RTCP starting with a RTCP SR or RR. What reduced-size RTCP message to
use may be chosen freely by data injection as long as it is a correct and
well-formed RTCP message, but can e.g. be a single RTCP Generic NACK (see
section 6.2.1 of IETF RFC 4585 [7]).
Stop condition: One or more RTP packets and one or more RTCP packets are sent
by the SUT, or time has passed corresponding to at least three maximum RTCP
intervals (see clause 6.2.1).
Pass criteria: RTP and RTCP packets are sent by the SUT after step 4 in the
test procedure.
Comments: The test only tries to detect if the RTP/RTCP stack in the SUT is
operational after receiving an unexpected reduced-size RTCP message in the
sense that RTP and RTCP packets are still sent from the SUT. The test does not
check for more detailed signs of SUT RTP/RTCP stack malfunction after
receiving the unexpected RTCP message.\ The test result is agnostic to RTP
packets being received by the SUT or not.
## 6.3 RTP Tests
### 6.3.1 General
This clause describes tests that are applicable to all RTP and SRTP packets.
If not explicitly stated otherwise, any reference to RTP is equally applicable
to SRTP. Tests that are only applicable to SRTP and not to RTP are specified
in clause 6.5.
### 6.3.2 Basic RTP Tests
#### 6.3.2.1 Receive RTP Padding Test
Purpose: Test if RTP packets with padding are correctly received by the SUT
_._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT is set to receive RTP packets during the test
session, e.g. pre-configured or set as send-receive or receive-only through
test instrument signalling.\ 2) Data injection is set to use RTP padding as
described by sections 4 and 5.1 of RFC 3550 in some or all RTP packets during
the test session (RTP header P bit set). Any number of padding octets (larger
than zero) suitable to the test instrument may be chosen.
Test procedure: 1) Observe the SUT application-level output based on RTP
packet payload, e.g. audio from a speaker and/or video on a screen.\ 2) RTP
packets with RTP payload and RTP padding are sent from data injection.
Stop condition: Ten or more seconds have passed after first RTP packet was
sent from data injection.
Pass criteria: Application-level output from the SUT exist as expected (e.g.
audio and/or video) and is undistorted compared to a corresponding test setup
where RTP padding is not used.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being sent by the SUT or
not.
#### 6.3.2.2 Initial SSRC Value Test
Purpose: Test if the SSRC value is chosen randomly by the SUT for every new
RTP stream sent by the SUT _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: The SUT is set to send RTP packets during the test session,
e.g. pre-configured or set as send-receive or send-only through test
instrument signalling.
Test procedure: 1) Observe the SUT output.\ 2) Note synchronization source
(SSRC) field values ($s_{i}$) in RTP packet headers from different RTP streams
($i$) sent from the SUT.\ 3) Start sending three or more new RTP streams from
the SUT, one after the other (one at a time) or sent simultaneously. Any
method suitable to the SUT and the test instrument may be chosen to achieve
this, e.g. making three or more calls with the SUT, adding and removing an RTP
stream three or more times during a single session (call), or adding three or
more simultaneous RTP streams for a single session (call).\ 4) Count the
number of different RTP streams (different SSRC values), $n$, sent during the
test from the SUT.
Stop condition: RTP packets for three or more, separate RTP streams are sent
from the SUT.
Pass criteria: 1) $s_{i} \neq s_{i - 1}\ for\ all\ i \in \left\lbrack 2..n
\right\rbrack$.\ 2) $s_{i} \neq s_{i - 1} + 1\ for\ all\ i \in \left\lbrack
2..n \right\rbrack$.\ 3) $s_{i} \neq s_{i - 1} - 1\ for\ all\ i \in
\left\lbrack 2..n \right\rbrack$.
Comments: The test pass criteria are a rough approximation of testing that the
SSRC is a random value, i.e. simply testing that SSRC values are not all the
same and not an increasing or decreasing sequence. Testing that the SSRC value
is truly a random number would require a much more elaborate formula. The test
result is agnostic to RTP packets being received by the SUT or not.
#### 6.3.2.3 Initial Sequence Number Test
Purpose: Test if the Sequence Number start value is chosen randomly by the SUT
for every new RTP stream sent by the SUT _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: The SUT is set to send RTP packets during the test session,
e.g. pre-configured or set as send-receive or send-only through test
instrument signalling.
Test procedure: 1) Observe the SUT output.\ 2) Note the sequence number (SN)
field value ($S_{i}$) of the first RTP packet header of each RTP stream ($i$)
sent from the SUT.\ 3) Start sending three or more new RTP streams from the
SUT, one after the other (one at a time) or sent simultaneously. Any method
suitable to the SUT and the test instrument may be chosen to achieve this,
e.g. making three or more calls with the SUT, adding and removing an RTP
stream three or more times during a single session (call), or adding three or
more simultaneous RTP streams for a single session (call).\ 4) Count the
number of different RTP streams (different SSRC values), $n$, sent during the
test from the SUT.
Stop condition: RTP packets for three or more, separate RTP streams are sent
from the SUT.
Pass criteria: 1) $S_{i} \neq S_{i - 1}\ for\ all\ i \in \left\lbrack 2..n
\right\rbrack$~.~\ 2) $S_{i} \neq S_{i - 1} + 1\ for\ all\ i \in \left\lbrack
2..n \right\rbrack$~.~\ 3) $S_{i} \neq S_{i - 1} - 1\ for\ all\ i \in
\left\lbrack 2..n \right\rbrack$~.~
Comments: The test pass criteria are a rough approximation of testing that the
first SN is a random value, i.e. simply testing that the first SN values are
not all the same and not an increasing or decreasing sequence. Testing that
the first SN value is truly a random number would require a much more
elaborate formula. The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being received
by the SUT or not.
#### 6.3.2.4 Initial Time Stamp Test
Purpose: Test if the timestamp start value is chosen randomly by the SUT for
every new RTP stream sent by the SUT _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: The SUT is set to send RTP packets during the test session,
e.g. pre-configured or set as send-receive or send-only through test
instrument signalling.
Test procedure: 1) Observe the SUT output.\ 2) Note the timestamp field value
($T_{i}$) of the first RTP packet header of each RTP stream ($i$) sent from
the SUT.\ 3) Start sending three or more new RTP streams from the SUT, one
after the other (one at a time) or sent simultaneously. Any method suitable to
the SUT and the test instrument may be chosen to achieve this, e.g. making
three or more calls with the SUT, adding and removing a single RTP stream
three or more times during a single session (call), or adding three or more
simultaneous RTP streams for a single session (call).\ 4) Count the number of
different RTP streams (different SSRC values), $n$, sent during the test from
the SUT.
Stop condition: RTP packets for three or more, separate RTP streams have been
sent from the SUT.
Pass criteria: 1) $T_{i} \neq T_{i - 1}\ for\ all\ i \in \left\lbrack 2..n
\right\rbrack$~.~\ 2) $T_{i} \neq T_{i - 1} + 1\ for\ all\ i \in \left\lbrack
2..n \right\rbrack$~.~\ 3) $T_{i} \neq T_{i - 1} - 1\ for\ all\ i \in
\left\lbrack 2..n \right\rbrack$~.~
Comments: The test pass criteria are a rough approximation of testing that the
first TS is a random value, i.e. simply testing that the first TS values are
not all the same and not an increasing or decreasing sequence. Testing that
the first TS value is truly a random number would require a much more
elaborate formula. The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being received
by the SUT or not.
### 6.3.3 RTP Header Extension Tests
#### 6.3.3.1 Ignore Unknown Header Extension Test
Purpose: Test if the SUT correctly ignores the RTP header extension when
receiving RTP packets with an unknown header extension but that the SUT still
accepts the RTP payload of those RTP packets _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT is set to not use RTP header extensions during the
test session, e.g. pre-configured or through no \"a=extmap\" lines being
included in SDP signalling from the test instrument.\ 2) The SUT is set to
receive RTP packets during the test session, e.g. pre-configured or set as
send-receive or receive-only through test instrument signalling.\ 3) Data
injection is set to use RTP header extension (RTP header X field set to 1) in
some or all RTP packets during the test session, even though not announced
through test instrument signalling. Any RTP header extension content according
to section 5.3.1 of RFC 3550 that is suitable to the test instrument may be
chosen, but the RTP header extension length field must be set larger than zero
and the amount of RTP header extension data included in the RTP packet before
the RTP payload must correspond to that length in each RTP packet.
Test procedure: 1) Observe the SUT application-level output based on RTP
packet payload, e.g. audio from a speaker and/or video on a screen.\ 2) RTP
packets with RTP header extension and RTP payload are sent from data
injection.
Stop condition: Ten or more seconds have passed after first RTP packet was
sent from data injection.
Pass criteria: Application-level output from the SUT exist as expected (e.g.
audio and/or video) and is undistorted compared to a corresponding test setup
where RTP header extension is not used.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being sent by the SUT or
not.
### 6.3.4 RTP Contributing Source Tests
#### 6.3.4.1 Ignore Contributing Source Test
Purpose: Test if the SUT correctly ignores the CSRC list when receiving RTP
packets with a non-zero CC field and CSRC list but that the SUT still accepts
the RTP payload of those RTP packets _._
Status: Mandatory
Preconditions: 1) The SUT is set to receive RTP packets during the test
session, e.g. pre-configured or set as send-receive or receive-only through
test instrument signalling.\ 2) Data injection is set to use a CSRC list in
some or all RTP packets during the test session (RTP header CC > 0). Any CSRC
content suitable to the test instrument may be chosen, but the number of
32-bit CSRC values included in the CSRC list must correspond to the CC field
in each RTP packet.
Test procedure: 1) Observe the SUT application-level output based on RTP
packet payload, e.g. audio from a speaker and/or video on a screen.\ 2) RTP
packets with CSRC list and RTP payload are sent from data injection.
Stop condition: Ten or more seconds have passed after first RTP packet was
sent from data injection.
Pass criteria: Application-level output from the SUT exist as expected (e.g.
audio and/or video) and is undistorted compared to a corresponding test setup
where CSRC list is not used.
Comments: The test result is agnostic to RTP packets being sent by the SUT or
not.
## 6.4 SRTCP Tests
### 6.4.1 General
This clause describes tests that are only applicable to SRTCP but not to RTCP.
Tests that are applicable to both SRTCP and RTCP are described in clause 6.2.
## 6.5 SRTP Tests
### 6.5.1 General
This clause describes tests that are only applicable to SRTP but not to RTP.
Tests that are applicable to both SRTP and RTP are described in clause 6.3.
# 7 Conformance Indication
## 7.1 General
An RTP/RTCP implementation conforming to this specification should announce
its compliance during call setup. Announcing compliance to this specification
must use an SDP attribute \"a=3gpp-rtp\" (see clause 7.2).
## 7.2 The a=3gpp-rtp SDP attribute
### 7.2.1 General
The a=3gpp-rtp attribute may be provided on SDP session level, SDP media level
or both. It is not defined for use on source or dcsa level. If used on SDP
session level, it must be taken as applicable to all m= lines in the SDP using
any RTP profile, e.g. RTP/AVP, RTP/AVPF, RTP/SAVP, or RTP/SAVPF. If used on
SDP media level using any RTP profile, it must be taken as applicable only to
that media description. It is not defined for use on non-RTP SDP media level.
### 7.2.2 ABNF syntax and semantics
The 3gpp-rtp ABNF syntax is:
3gpp-rtp-value = [3gpp-rtp-extension]
3gpp-rtp-extension = byte-string
; SP and byte-string as defined by IETF RFC 4566
Example:
a=3gpp-rtp
The optional attribute value is defined to allow for future extensibility and
has currently no defined use.
### 7.2.3 SDP offer/answer considerations
This attribute is a unilateral announcement from the party creating the SDP
offer or answer, and there are thus no SDP offer/answer considerations. When
announcing compliance to this specification, the a=3gpp-rtp attribute shall be
included in the SDP offer, and shall be included in the SDP answer regardless
if it was also present in the corresponding SDP offer.
The optional attribute value should not be included in an SDP offer or answer
sent by implementers of this specification and shall be ignored if received in
an SDP offer or answer.
### 7.2.4 IANA registration information
Contact name, email address, and telephone number:
3GPP Specifications Manager
3gppContact@etsi.org
+33 (0)492944200
Attribute Name (as it will appear in SDP):
3gpp-rtp
Long-form Attribute Name in English:
3GPP-conformant RTP/RTCP implementation
Type of Attribute:
Session level and media level
Is Attribute Value subject to the Charset Attribute?
This attribute is not dependent on charset.
Purpose of the attribute:
This attribute is used to indicate the RTP/RTCP stack conformance to 3GPP TS
26.139.
Appropriate Attribute Values for this Attribute:
See 3GPP TS 26.139 clause 7.2.2 for ABNF and detailed usage.
MUX Category for this Attribute:
IDENTICAL
#