# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The 3GPP Technical Specifications TS 22.340 [55] and TS 22.141 [56] define the
requirements for the 3GPP IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) based messaging and
presence services. This Technical Specification takes the requirements into
account when defining the minimal baseline and optional media codecs and
message container format to be used by IMS Messaging and associated Presence
service, when supported.
IMS Messaging services incorporate one or more of the following messaging
types Immediate messaging, Deferred delivery messaging, and Session based
messaging. With Immediate messaging the sender expects immediate message
delivery in what is perceived as real time compared with Deferred messaging
where the sender expects the network to deliver the message as soon as the
recipient becomes available. With Session based messaging a communications
association is established between two or more users before communication can
take place. In the simplest form Session based messaging may be a direct
communication between two users. This specification defines the media types
and container formats for both the Immediate message type and the Session
based message type.
The specification provides the ability to have an interoperable baseline set
of media types for messaging and presence services, that will simultaneously
maximise the technology re-use of the already existing 3GPP services with
media types, defined in TS 26.140 [13] and TS 26.234 [14]. Simultaneously, the
specification will provide the ability to indicate the IMS system about the
complete set of UE media and storage capabilities relevant for the IMS
messaging and presence service.
For IMS terminals capable of Combined CS and IMS (CSI) operation [59][60], the
specification provides an Annex with guidelines on how to combine IMS media
with CS calls.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the basic media formats and codecs to be used
in the IMS Messaging and Presence services, including CSI. It defines the
mandatory \'baseline\' set of media types for the services. Additionally, it
also targets to allow possible message content type enhancements, either 3GPP-
standardized or other generally used media types, in a flexible way.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 1) [-] 1) 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 2) [-] 2) The Unicode Consortium: \"The Unicode Standard\", Version 2.0,
Addison-Wesley Developers Press, 1996.URL: http://www.unicode.org/.
[3] 3) [-] 3) ANSI X3.4, 1986: \"Information Systems; Coded Character Set 7
Bit; American National Standard Code for Information Interchange\".
[4] 4) [-] 4) ISO/IEC 8859-1:1998: \"Information technology; 8-bit single-byte
coded graphic character sets; Part 1: Latin alphabet No. 1\".
[5] 5) [-] 5) IETF; RFC 2279: \"UTF-8, A Transformation format of ISO 10646\",
URL: http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2279.txt.
[6] 6) [-] 6) 3GPP TS 24.011: \"Point‑to‑Point (PP) Short Message Service
(SMS) support on mobile radio interface\".
[7] 7) [-] 7) 3GPP TS 26.090: \"AMR speech Codec Transcoding functions\".
[8] 8) [-] 8) ITU-T Recommendation T.81: \"Information technology; Digital
compression and coding of continuous-tone still images: Requirements and
guidelines\".
[9] 9) [-] 9) \"JPEG File Interchange Format\", Version 1.02, September 1,
1992.
[10] 10) [-] 10) (void)
[11] 11) [-] 11) (void)
[12] 12) [-] 12) ISO/IEC 14496-2 (2004): \"Information technology - Coding of
audio-visual objects - Part 2: Visual\".
[13] 13) [-] 13) 3GPP TS 26.140: \"Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS); Media
formats and codecs\"
[14] 14) [-] 14) 3GPP TS 26.234: \"End-to-end transparent streaming Service;
Protocols and codecs\".
[15] 15) [-] 15) CompuServe Incorporated: \"GIF Graphics Interchange Format: A
Standard defining a mechanism for the storage and transmission of raster-based
graphics information\", Columbus, OH, USA, 1987.
[16] 16) [-] 16) Compuserve Incorporated, Columbus, Ohio (1990): \"Graphics
Interchange Format (Version 89a)\".
[17] 17) [-] 17) IETF RFC 2083: \"PNG (Portable Networks Graphics)
Specification version 1.0 \", T. Boutell, et. al., March 1997.
[18] 18) [-] 18) (void)
[19] 19) [-] 19) ISO/IEC 14496-3:2001, \"Information technology -- Coding of
audio-visual objects -- Part 3: Audio\".
[20] 20) [-] 20) W3C Last Call Working Draft: \"Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG)
1.2\", http://www.w3.org/TR/2004/WD-SVG12-20041027/, October 2004.
[21] 21) [-] 21) W3C Last Call Working Draft: \"Mobile SVG Profile: SVG Tiny,
Version 1.2\", http://www.w3.org/TR/2004/WD-SVGMobile12-20040813/, August
2004.
[22] 22) [-] 22) 3GPP 22.140: \"Service Aspects; Stage 1; Multimedia Messaging
Service\".
[23] 23) [-] 23) 3GPP 23.140: \"Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS); Functional
Description; Stage 2\".
[24] 24) [-] 24) W3C Recommendation: \"Synchronized Multimedia Integration
Language (SMIL 2.0)\", http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/REC-smil20-20010807/, August
2001.
[25] 25) [-] 25) IETF RFC 2046: \"Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME)
Part Two: Media Types\".
[26] 26) [-] 26) 3GPP TS 26.071: \"Mandatory Speech Codec speech processing
functions; AMR Speech Codec; General description\".
[27] 27) [-] 27) 3GPP TS 26.171: \"AMR speech codec; General description\".
[28] 28) [-] 28) Scalable Polyphony MIDI Specification Version 1.0, RP-34,
MIDI Manufacturers Association, Los Angeles, CA, February 2002.
[29] 29) [-] 29) Scalable Polyphony MIDI Device 5-to-24 Note Profile for 3GPP,
RP-35, MIDI Manufacturers Association, Los Angeles, CA, February 2002.
[30] 30) [-] 30) WAP Forum Specification: \"XHTML Mobile Profile\",
http://www1.wapforum.org/tech/terms.asp?doc=WAP-277-XHTMLMP-20011029-a.pdf,
October 2001.
[31] 31) [-] 31) \"Standard MIDI Files 1.0\", RP-001, in \"The Complete MIDI
1.0 Detailed Specification, Document Version 96.1 \" The MIDI Manufacturers
Association, Los Angeles, CA, USA, February 1996.
[32] 32) [-] 32) IETF RFC 3267: \" RTP payload format and file storage format
for the Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband (AMR-WB) audio
codecs \", March 2002.
[33] 33) [-] 33) 3GPP TS 26.244: \"Transparent end-to-end packet switched
streaming service (PSS); 3GPP file format (3GP)\".
[34] 34) [-] 34) 3GPP TS 26.246: \"Transparent end-to-end packet switched
streaming service (PSS); 3GPP SMIL Language Profile\".
[35] 35) [-] 35) 3GPP TS 26.245: \"Transparent end-to-end packet switched
streaming service (PSS); Timed text format\".
[36] 36) [-] 36) IETF RFC 1952 \"GZIP file format specification version 4.3\",
Deutsch P, May 1996.
[37] 37) [-] 37) (void)
[38] 38) [-] 38) Mobile DLS, MMA specification v1.0. RP-41 Los Angeles, CA,
USA. 2004.
[39] 39) [-] 39) Mobile XMF Content Format Specification, MMA specification
v1.0., RP-42, Los Angeles, CA, USA. 2004.
[40] 40) [-] 40) 3GPP TS 26.090: \"Mandatory Speech Codec speech processing
functions; Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) speech codec; Transcoding functions\".
[41] 41) [-] 41) 3GPP TS 26.073: \"ANSI-C code for the Adaptive Multi Rate
(AMR) speech codec\".
[42] 42) [-] 42) 3GPP TS 26.104: \"ANSI-C code for the floating-point Adaptive
Multi Rate (AMR) speech codec\".
[43] 43) [-] 43) 3GPP TS 26.190: \"Speech Codec speech processing functions;
AMR Wideband speech codec; Transcoding functions\".
[44] 44) [-] 44) 3GPP TS 26.173: \"ANCI-C code for the Adaptive Multi Rate -
Wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec\".
[45] 45) [-] 45) 3GPP TS 26.204: \"ANSI-C code for the Floating-point Adaptive
Multi-Rate Wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec\".
[46] 46) [-] 46) 3GPP TS 26.290: \"Extended AMR Wideband codec; Transcoding
functions\".
[47] 47) [-] 47) 3GPP TS 26.304: \"ANSI-C code for the Floating-point;
Extended AMR Wideband codec\".
[48] 48) [-] 48) 3GPP TS 26.273: \"ANSI-C code for the Fixed-point; Extended
AMR Wideband codec\".
[49] 49) [-] 49) 3GPP TS 26.401: \"General audio codec audio processing
functions; Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec; General description\".
[50] 50) [-] 50) 3GPP TS 26.410: \"General audio codec audio processing
functions; Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec; Floating-point ANSI-C code\".
[51] 51) [-] 51) 3GPP TS 26.411: \"General audio codec audio processing
functions; Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec; Fixed-point ANSI-C code\".
[52] 52) [-] 52) void
[53] 53) [-] 53) ISO/IEC 14496-10/FDAM1: \"AVC Fidelity Range Extensions\".
[54] 54) [-] 54) 3GPP TS 23.228; 3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; IP Multimedia Subsystem
(IMS); Stage 2.
[55] 55) [-] 55) 3GPP TS 22.340: \"Stage 1, IMS Messaging Service\".
[56] 56) [-] 56) 3GPP TS 22.141: \"Stage 1, Presence Service\".
[57] 57) [-] 57) Standard ECMA-327: \"ECMAScript 3^rd^ Edition Compact
Profile\", June 2001.
**[58] 58) [-] 58) \"Exchangeable image file format for digital still cameras:
EXIF 2.2\", Specification by the Japan Electronics and Information Technology
Industries Association (JEITA), April 2002, URL:** http://www.exif.org/.
[59] 59) [-] 59) 3GPP TS 22.279: \"Combining CS and IMS services; Stage 1\".
[60] 60) [-] 60) 3GPP TS 23.279: \"Combining CS and IMS services; Stage 2\".
[61] 61) [-] 61) 3GPP TS 26.235: \"Packet switched conversational multimedia
applications; Default codecs\".
[62] 62) [-] 62) 3GPP TR 26.936: \"Performance characterization of 3GPP audio
codecs\".
[63] 63) [-] 63) 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia
Telephony; Media handling and interaction\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
**Deferred delivery messaging** : A type of IMS Messaging service by which the
sender expects the network to deliver the message as soon as the recipient
becomes available.
**Immediate messaging** : A type of IMS Messaging service by which the sender
expects immediate message delivery in (near) real time fashion.
**IMS Messaging services:** A group of services, supported by capabilities of
the 3GPP IP Multimedia Subsystem 3GPP TS 22.228 [54], that allows an IMS user
to send and receive messages to other users. IMS messaging services comprise
of one or more types: Immediate messaging, Session based messaging and
Deferred delivery messaging.
**Session based messaging** : A type of IMS Messaging service by which the
sender expects immediate message delivery in (near) real time fashion. In
addition the sender(s) and the receiver(s) have to join to a messaging session
e.g. chat room, before message exchange can take place.
**continuous media:** media with an inherent notion of time, in the present
document speech, audio, synthetic audio and video.
**static media:** media that itself does not contain an element of time, in
the present document all media not defined as continuous media.
**scene description:** description of the spatial layout and temporal
behaviour of a presentation, it can also contain hyperlinks.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
3GP 3GPP file format
AAC Advanced Audio Coding
AMR Adaptive Multi-rate Codec
CC/PP Composite Capability/Preference Profiles
CSI Combination of CS and IMS services
DLS Downloadable Sounds
Enhanced aacPlus MPEG-4 High Efficiency AAC plus MPEG-4 Parametric Stereo
EXIF Exchangeable image file format
GIF Graphics Interchange Format
IP Internet Protocol
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
ITU-T International Telecommunications Union - Telecommunications
JFIF JPEG File Interchange Format
JPEG Joint Picture Expert Group
MIDI Musical Instrument Digital Interface
MIME Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions
MM Multimedia Message
MMS Multimedia Messaging Service
MPEG Motion Picture Expert Group
MP4 MPEG-4 file format
MTSI Multimedia Telephony Service for IMS
PSS Packet-switched Streaming Service
SBR Spectral Band Replication
SP-MIDI Scalable Polyphony MIDI
SVG Scalable Vector Graphics
UTF-8 Unicode Transformation Format (the 8-bit form)
XMF Extensible Music Format
# 4 Formats for Static Media
Multiple media elements shall be combined into a composite single IMS message
using MIME multipart content type format as defined in RFC 2046 [25]. The
media type of a single IMS message element shall be identified by its
appropriate MIME type whereas the media format shall be indicated by its
appropriate MIME subtype.
In order to guarantee a minimum support and compatibility between IMS
Messaging and Presence Service capable terminals and OMA IMPS 1.1 capable
terminals, IMS Messaging User Agent and IMS Presence User Agent supporting
specific media types shall comply with the following selection of media
formats:
## 4.1 Text
Plain text. Any character encoding (charset) that contains a subset of the
logical characters in Unicode [2] shall be used (e.g. US-ASCII [3], ISO-8859-1
[4], UTF-8 [5], Shift_JIS, etc.).
Unrecognized subtypes of \"text\" shall be treated as subtype \"plain\" as
long as the MIME implementation knows how to handle the charset. Any other
unrecognized subtype and unrecognized charset shall be treated as
\"application/octet ‑ stream\".
## 4.2 Still Image
For IMS terminals supporting still images, ISO/IEC JPEG [8] together with JFIF
[9] shall be supported. The support for ISO/IEC JPEG only apply to the
following two modes:
\- mandatory: baseline DCT, non-differential, Huffman coding, as defined in
table B.1, symbol \'SOF0\' in [8];
\- optional: progressive DCT, non-differential, Huffman coding, as defined in
table B.1, symbol \'SOF2\' [8].
For JPEG baseline DCT, EXIF compressed image file format should also be
supported, as defined in [58]. In that case there is no requirement for the
MMS Messaging and Presence client to interpret or present the EXIF parameters
recorded in the file.
## 4.3 Bitmap Graphics
For IMS terminals, supporting bitmap graphics, the following bitmap graphics
formats should be supported:
\- GIF87a [15];
\- GIF89a [16];
\- PNG [17].
# 5 Formats for Continuous Media
In order to guarantee a minimum support and compatibility between IMS
Messaging and Presence Service capable terminals and MMS capable terminals
that offer support of continuous media formats (section 5) and media
synchronisation and scene description (see section 6), IMS Messaging User
Agent and IMS Presence User Agent supporting specific media types should in
addition to formats listed in section 4 of this document comply with the
following selection of media formats:
## 5.1 Speech
For IMS terminals supporting speech, the AMR codec shall be supported for
narrow-band speech [26][40][41][42].
The AMR wideband speech codec [27] [43][44][45] shall be supported when
wideband speech working at 16 kHz sampling frequency is supported.
When using speech media type alone, AMR or AMR-WB data stored according to the
file format specified in [32] should be supported. The mandatory format is
defined in clause 5.4.
Multi-channel sessions shall not be used.
## 5.2 Audio
For IMS terminals supporting audio, one or both of the following two audio
codecs should be supported:
\- Enhanced aacPlus [49][50][51]
\- Extended AMR-WB [46][47][45]
There is no requirement that a terminal supporting decoding by one of the
codecs shall also support encoding by that codec.
Specifically, based on the audio codec selection test results Extended AMR-WB
is strong for the scenarios marked with blue, Enhanced aacPlus is strong for
the scenarios marked with orange, and both are strong for the scenarios marked
with green colour in the table below:
+----------------+-------+-------------------+----------------------+--------+ | Content type | Music | Speech over Music | Speech between Music | Speech | | | | | | | | Bit rate | | | | | +----------------+-------+-------------------+----------------------+--------+ | 14 kbps mono | | | | | +----------------+-------+-------------------+----------------------+--------+ | 18 kbps stereo | | | | | +----------------+-------+-------------------+----------------------+--------+ | 24 kbps stereo | | | | | +----------------+-------+-------------------+----------------------+--------+ | 24 kbps mono | | | | | +----------------+-------+-------------------+----------------------+--------+ | 32 kbps stereo | | | | | +----------------+-------+-------------------+----------------------+--------+ | 48 kbps stereo | | | | | +----------------+-------+-------------------+----------------------+--------+
More recent information on the performance of the codecs based on more recent
versions of the codecs can be found in TR 26.936 [62].
Enhanced aacPlus decoder is also able to decode MPEG-4 AAC LC content.
Extended AMR-WB decoder is also able to decode AMR-WB content.
In addition, MPEG-4 AAC Low Complexity and MPEG-4 AAC Long Term Prediction
object types [19] may be supported. The maximum sampling rate to be supported
by the decoder is 48 kHz. The channel configurations to be supported are mono
(1/0) and stereo (2/0).
## 5.3 Video
For IMS terminals supporting video, media codecs are specified in TS 26.114
[63], clause 5.2.2. The video codecs are the same as for MTSI clients in
terminals.
## 5.4 File Format for video and associated speech/audio media types
To ensure interoperability for the transport of video and associated
speech/audio in an IMS Messaging and Presence client, the 3GPP file format
with Basic profile shall be supported.
The usage of the 3GPP file format shall follow the technical specifications
and the implementation guidelines specified in TS 26.244 [33].
## 5.5 Synthetic audio
For IMS terminals supporting synthetic audio, the Scalable Polyphony MIDI (SP-
MIDI) content format defined in Scalable Polyphony MIDI Specification [28] and
the device requirements defined in Scalable Polyphony MIDI Device 5-to-24 Note
Profile for 3GPP [29] should be supported.
SP-MIDI content is delivered in the structure specified in Standard MIDI Files
1.0 [31], either in format 0 or format 1.
In addition the Mobile DLS instrument format defined in [38] and the Mobile
XMF content format defined in [39] should be supported.
A MSS client supporting Mobile DLS shall meet the minimum device requirements
defined in [38] in section 1.3 and the requirements for the common part of the
synthesizer voice as defined in [38] in sections 1.2.1.2. If Mobile DLS is
supported, wavetables encoded with the G.711 A-law codec (wFormatTag value
0x0006, as defined in [38]) shall also be supported. The optional group of
processing blocks as defined in [38] may be supported. Mobile DLS resources
are delivered either in the file format defined in [38], or within Mobile XMF
as defined in [39]. For Mobile DLS files delivered outside of Mobile XMF, the
loading application should unload Mobile DLS instruments so that the sound
bank required by the SP-MIDI profile [29] is not persistently altered by
temporary loadings of Mobile DLS files.
Content that pairs Mobile DLS and SP-MIDI resources is delivered in the
structure specified in Mobile XMF [39]. As defined in [39], a Mobile XMF file
shall contain one SP-MIDI SMF file and no more than one Mobile DLS file. MMS
clients supporting Mobile XMF must not support any other resource types in the
Mobile XMF file. Media handling behaviours for the SP-MIDI SMF and Mobile DLS
resources contained within Mobile XMF are defined in [39].
## 5.6 Vector graphics
For IMS terminals supporting 2D vector graphics, the Scalable Vector Graphics
(SVG) Tiny 1.2 format [20][21] and ECMAScript [54] shall be supported.
NOTE 1: The compression format for SVG content is GZIP [35], in accordance
with the SVG specification [20].
NOTE 2: Only media formats supported by IMS Messaging and Presence, as
specified in clauses 4 and 5 of this specification, shall be used. MMS
Messaging and Presence clients do not support the Ogg Vorbis format.
NOTE 3: Content creators of SVG Tiny 1.2 for IMS Messaging and Presence
clients are strongly recommended to follow the content creation guidelines
provided for PSS clients in Annex L of [14].
NOTE 4: If SVG Tiny 1.2 will not be published within a reasonable timeframe,
the decision to adopt SVG Tiny 1.2 in favour of SVG Tiny 1.1 may be
reconsidered.
# 6 Media synchronisation and presentation format
The 3GPP IMS Messaging and Presence uses a subset of SMIL 2.0 [24] for media
synchronisation and scene description. IMS clients and servers with support
for media synchronization and scene descriptions shall support the 3GPP SMIL
Language Profile defined in [34].
\- This profile is a subset of the SMIL 2.0 Language Profile but a superset of
the SMIL 2.0 Basic Language Profile. Document [34] also includes an
informative annex A that provides guidelines for SMIL content authors.
Additionally, XHTML Mobile Profile [30] for scene description should be
supported. IMS clients and servers with support for scene descriptions based
on XHTML shall support XHTML Mobile Profile [30], defined by the WAP Forum.
\- XHTML Mobile Profile is a subset of XHTML 1.1 but a superset of XHTML
Basic.
###### ## Annex A (informative): CSI Handling
# A.1 Introduction
The Combination of CS and IMS services (CSI) is an operation mode combining
circuit switch calls and IMS services, where the UE presents the CS and IMS
services within one context to the user [59][60]. However, the capabilitiy to
simultaneously render certain media types of a CS call and IMS session may be
limited by a UE and capability exchange alone may not be enough to resolve
such conflicts. For instance:
\- During a CS speech call, a UE may not be able to render additional speech
accompanying a video clip in an IMS session. This limitation is not clear if
the UE has indicated that it is capable of receiving video clips.
\- During a CS multimedia call, a UE may not be able to both display video
from the CS call and images from the IMS session. Although the UE is not
capable to fully render images and video simultaneously, it may be possible to
view images in front of video.
The above conflicts are resolved by applying default rules specified in [59].
This Annex describes the UE behaviour for a number of scenarios drawn from the
rules in [59]. This list may be extended in future versions of this
specification.
Note that the IMS media types and formats applicable to CSI are specified in:
\- clauses 6 and 9 of reference [61] for streamed media;
\- clauses 4 and 5 of the present document for media delivered in messages.
# A.2 Sharing personal content during CS voice call
In a person-2-person communication, participants can combine a CS voice call
with an IMS session and share content such as still images and video. In
particular participants may share media content that is (or has been) created
by the participants in the session.
TS 22.279 [59] defines that if media, or parts thereof, accepted by a user
cannot be rendered by the UE simultaneously with the CS call, conflicts shall
be resolved such that the user is presented with CS speech with preference
over IMS speech/audio.
# A.3 Sharing personal content during CS multimedia call
In a person-2-person communication, participants can combine a CS multimedia
call (3G-324M) with an IMS session and share content such as still images. In
particular participants may share media content that is (or has been) created
by the participants in the session.
TS 22.279 [59] defines that if media, or parts thereof, accepted by a user
cannot be rendered by the UE simultaneously with the CS call, conflicts shall
be resolved such that the user is presented with:
\- CS speech with preference over IMS speech/audio;
\- IMS video and images with preference over CS video.
#