# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The Framework for Live Uplink Streaming (FLUS) is an enabler for live media
streaming from a source entity to a sink entity. FLUS offers an IMS-based and
a non-IMS-based instantiation. The IMS/MTSI-based instantiation enables the
establishment of live media streaming between two UEs or between a source
entity and a sink entity, within and across operator networks. Compared with
MTSI, where limited types of QoS for speech or video media are used, FLUS can
provide a wider range of QoS operation, e.g., in the maximum delay, available
bandwidth or target packet loss rate.
In the non-IMS-based instantiation, it is possible to operate FLUS as a more
generic framework that is controlled through a RESTful API and that supports
other media plane protocols (i.e. not based on IMS or MTSI).
In addition to providing a wider range of QoS operation over radio links,
other advanced functionalities of FLUS, such as the signalling of immersive
media, can be used to complement existing 3GPP services.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines a FLUS source entity and a FLUS sink entity that
can support point-to-point transmission of speech/audio, video, and text. It
defines media handling (e.g., signalling, transport, packet-loss handling, and
adaptation). The goal is to ensure a reliable and interoperable service with a
predictable media quality while allowing for flexibility in the service
offerings.
A FLUS source entity, which may be embedded in a single UE, or distributed
among a UE and separate audio-visual capture devices, may support all or a
subset of the features specified in this document.
When used as a generic framework, only the F-C procedures for establishing the
FLUS session are required to be supported by the FLUS source and the FLUS sink
entities, and no other feature or procedure specified in this document is
mandated. Impact on the service quality and network capacity is left to the
discretion of the implementation and the service utilizing the framework. For
example, configuration of media formats and codecs follows the requirements of
the respective service.
When offered as part of a 3GPP IMS/MTSI service, the FLUS source and the FLUS
sink entities are required to support the IMS control plane and media plane
procedures, and the service quality is determined by the MTSI service policy.
The specification is written in a forward-compatible way in order to allow
additions of media components and functionality in releases beyond Release 15.
.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] Recommendation ITU-R BS.2051-1 (06/2017): \"Advanced Sound System for
Programme Production\".
[3] **ISO/IEC 23090-2:2019: \"Information technology - Coded representation of
immersive media - Part 2: Omnidirectional media format\".**
**[4] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia telephony;
Media handling and interaction** \".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.235: **\"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming
Service (PSS); Protocols and codecs\".**
[6] 3GPP TS 24.147: \"Conferencing using the IM Multimedia (IM) Core Network
(CN) subsystem; Stage 3\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.203: \"3G security; Access security for IP-based services\".
[9] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security\".
[10] 3GPP TS 33.328: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) media plane security\".
**[11] IETF RFC 7231: \"Hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and
Content\" (June 2014).**
**[12] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP multimedia call control protocol based on Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP); Stage 3\".**
**[13]** 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements
for Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.682: \" Architecture enhancements to facilitate communications
with packet data networks and applications\".
[16] 3GPP TS 26.501: \"5G Media Streaming (5GMS); General description and
architecture\".
[17] ISO/IEC DIS 23090-8: \"Information technology -- Coded representation of
immersive media -- Part 8: Network based media processing\" (under
development).
[18] IETF RFC 4574: \"The Session Description Protocol (SDP) Label Attribute\"
(August 2006).
[19] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\".
[20] 3GPP TS 38.321,: \"NR; Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol
specification\".
[21] OMA-ERELD-DM-V1_2-20070209-A: \"Enabler Release Definition for OMA Device
Management, Approved Version 1.2\".
[22] 3GPP TR 26.939: \" Guidelines on the Framework for Live Uplink Streaming
(FLUS)\".
[23] 3GPP TS 26.511: \"5G Media Streaming (5GMS); Profiles, codecs and
formats\".
[24] IETF RFC 7798 (2016): \"RTP Payload Format for High Efficiency Video
Coding (HEVC)\"
[25] 3GPP TS 26.445: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Detailed
Algorithmic Description\".
[26] IETF RFC 4867 (2007): \"RTP Payload Format and File Storage Format for
the Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) and Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband (AMR-WB) Audio
Codecs\".
[27] IETF RFC 6416 (2011): \"RTP Payload Format for MPEG-4 Audio/Visual
Streams\".
[28] OASIS Standard, MQTT Version 5.0, https://docs.oasis-
open.org/mqtt/mqtt/v5.0/mqtt-v5.0.html
[29] 3GPP TS 24.147, Conferencing using the IP Multimedia (IM); Core Network
(CN) subsystem;
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**FLUS session:** A logical association between a FLUS source and a FLUS sink
within which media content can be sent from the source to the sink.
**Media session:** A subset or part of a FLUS session between a FLUS source
and a FLUS sink including the duration to establish the Media Media session,
the time period during which media content can be sent from the FLUS source to
the FLUS sink and the duration to terminate the MMedia session. One or more
MMedia sessions are delivered during a FLUS session. A MMedia session may be
established and controlled by a well-defined control protocol.
**Media stream:** The content sent from a FLUS source to a FLUS sink within a
MMedia session.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
FLUS Framework for Live Uplink Streaming
HMD Head Mounted Display
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
MO Management Object
NBMP Network Based Media Processing
# 4 System architecture
## 4.1 General
This clause introduces the system architecture for FLUS.
## 4.2 System
### 4.2.1 General
Figure 4.2-1 depicts the architecture showing the relevant entities for
providing an uplink streaming service.
Figure 4.2-1: FLUS architecture
The uplink streaming service architecture is based on a FLUS source located in
a UE and a FLUS sink located in either another UE or the network.
The FLUS source receives media content from one or more capture devices. In
the context of this specification, the capture devices are considered as parts
of a UE or are connected to it.
When the FLUS sink is located in a UE, the FLUS sink shall forward media
content to a decoding and rendering function.
When the FLUS sink is located in the network,
the FLUS sink may forward media content to a processing or distribution sub-
function. The processing and distribution sub-functions are not in scope of
the present specification. The FLUS sink may act as a Media Gateway Function
(MGW) and/or an Application Function (AF).
\- an optional Sink Discovery Server offers functionality that allows to
discover available FLUS sinks.
\- each FLUS sink provides functionality to query its capabilities and FLUS
sessions.
The F reference point connects a FLUS source to a FLUS sink and optionally to
the Sink Discovery Server. The F reference point enables the discovery of
available FLUS sinks. In addition,. the F reference point enables the
establishment and control of a single FLUS session between the FLUS source and
FLUS sink.
The F reference point also enables the FLUS sink and the FLUS source to
mutually authenticate and authorize each other.
FLUS source and FLUS sink are each split into:
\- Media Source and Sink (F-U end-points),
\- Control Source and Sink (F-C end-points),
\- Remote Controller and Remote Control Target (F-RC end-points) and
The UE, the FLUS source and the FLUS sink are considered to be logical
functions. Functions are not required to be located in the same physical
device; they can be spread over multiple physical devices and interconnected
via other interfaces.
Multiple F-RC end-points can exist in a single FLUS source. F-RC end-points
are independent of a FLUS sink and depend on the offered service.
The F reference point shall support security functionality for confidentiality
protection for all subfunctions.
Details of the functions are shown in Figure 4.2-2.
Figure 4.2-2: Sub-functions of FLUS
Note that in the above diagram, hatched-filled boxes represent FLUS control
plane functionality, solid line boxes represent mandatory functionality, and
dashed-line boxes corresponds to optional functionality. Also, note that F-C
and F-U denote FLUS control and FLUS user plane interactions, respectively,
and do not represent reference points.
Control Source and Sink (F-C): FLUS control plane functionality including the
associated processing by the FLUS sink of the uploaded media for subsequent
downstream distribution, plus FLUS media instantiation selection. F-C may also
support configuration of static metadata for the Media session.
Remote Controller and Remote Control Target (F-RC): The Remote Control Target
on the FLUS source receives control messages. The messages affect the
behaviour of the Media Source in the FLUS source. Examples of commands issued
to the Remote Control Target are start or stop of the media upstreaming
process in the FLUS source.
Media Source and Sink (F-U): FLUS user plane functionality which includes
setup of one or more Media sessions and subsequent media data transmission via
Media streams. In some cases, a Media session establishment protocol (e.g. IMS
session set-up for MTSI-based FLUS instantiation) is necessary.
NOTE: F-C is not needed when the FLUS sink is an MTSI client that is only
capable of rendering. In such event, logical control plane functions such as
media and session descriptions and support for a FLUS session establishment
are encapsulated in FLUS user plane functionality.
F-C represents the interactions associated with the creation and modification
of the configuration of the FLUS sink. F-C allows the Control Source to:
\- select a FLUS media instantiation,
\- provision static metadata associated with each Media session present in the
FLUS session,
\- discover, select and configure the processing and distribution sub-
functions.
In addition to the delivery of control messages, F-RC represents the
interactions associated with the discovery, creation, modification and
selection of the FLUS sink configuration by the Remote Controller. F-RC allows
the Remote Controller to:
\- provide the Media Sink information to the FLUS source,
\- select a FLUS media instantiation,
\- determine capture device settings and other FLUS source parameters.
The FLUS media instantiation is defined as part of the FLUS session. The user
plane (F-U) may also contain the Media stream establishment procedures when
needed. Multiple Media streams may be established for one FLUS session.
A Media stream may contain media components of a single content type, e.g.,
audio, or media components of different content types, e.g., audio and video.
A FLUS session may be composed of more than one Media stream containing the
same content type, e.g., multiple Media streams of video.
###
### 4.2.2 Uplink streaming for MTSI
The architecture of uplink streaming for MTSI is depicted in Figure 4.2-3.
Figure 4.2-3: Uplink streaming for MTSI
The reception function of an MTSI client, i.e., the \"MTSI rx client\" as
shown in Figure 4.2-3, is used to realize the Media Sink in the FLUS sink. The
FLUS sink may be instantiated as another UE or as an MTSI rx client function
in the network.
F-U contains all MTSI-related signalling.
The transmission function of an MTSI client, MTSI tx client, is used to
realize the Media Source in the FLUS source.
### 4.2.3 Uplink streaming for PSS-based distribution
Figure 4.2-4a shows the most important interfaces for Evolved Packet System
(EPS) and 5G System (5GS) for Live Uplink Streaming Services.
Figure 4.2-4a: Architecture for Live Uplink Streaming
An uplink streaming service requires at least a FLUS source and a FLUS sink. A
FLUS sink is located at the SGi reference point in case of EPS [13] and at the
N6 reference point in case of 5GS [15]. When QoS support is needed, the FLUS
sink may request QoS support using Rx [13] or T8 [14] reference points in case
or EPS and using Nnef or Npcf [15] reference points in case of 5GS.
The architecture of uplink streaming for subsequent PSS distribution is
depicted in Figure 4.2-4b.
Figure 4.2-4b: Uplink streaming for PSS
The PSS Content Source is located on the UE side and contains the FLUS source.
## 4.3 Terminal
The functional components of a terminal including both a FLUS source and a
FLUS sink that uses 3GPP access are shown in figure 4.3-1.
NOTE 1: It is not required that all components of a FLUS source or a FLUS sink
are included in a terminal.
Figure 4.3-1: Functional components of a FLUS source and a FLUS sink
The scope of the present document is to specify media handling and
interaction, which includes media control, as well as transport of media and
control data.
As indicated in figure 4.3-1, whether or not to employ or how to realize the
audio/video renderer, media controller, or audio/video pre-processor is left
to the configuration of a FLUS source and a FLUS sink, and their
implementation. For these functional components, this document only defines
the signalling of the media controller, which will be used to define the
handling of media.
Timed media may include text, graphics, etc.
If a terminal including a FLUS source uses 3GPP access only for uplink media
transmission, its functional components are shown in figure 4.3-2.
Figure 4.3-2: Functional components of a FLUS source for uplink media
transmission
## 4.4 Procedures
### 4.4.1 General
A FLUS session may include one or more media streams. Media streams are time-
bound to the FLUS session to which they belong to. When a media stream is
active, the FLUS source can send media content to the FLUS sink.
The establishment and / or teardown of a Media session can be remotely
controlled / influenced using remote control and / or assistance messaging.
Figure 4.4-1 depicts an example relationship of a FLUS session with a single
Media session containing two media streams. The FLUS Session is established
once the FLUS source and the FLUS sink contain matching configurations.
Figure 4.4-1: FLUS, Media sessions and Media streams
When the FLUS sink is located in a UE and the UE renders the received media
content directly, the FLUS session may be implicitly present, e.g. it may be
realized through IMS/MTSI.
When the FLUS sink is located on the network side and provides Media Gateway
functionality, the FLUS session is used to select the Media session
instantiation and to configure any processing and distribution related sub-
functions.
The MPEG NBMP [17] Workflow Description Document may be used to describe the
media processing tasks at FLUS sink to be performed on received media
components from the FLUS source. See Annex B for further details.
### 4.4.2 FLUS session establishment
It is assumed that the FLUS source has the necessary information to establish
an F-C connection to a FLUS sink, e.g., in terms of a SIP-URI or an HTTP URL.
### 4.4.3 FLUS session update
The FLUS session establishment procedure creates a FLUS session resource,
which is then configured through the FLUS session update procedure, for
example, resulting in the selection of the Media session instantiation.
The FLUS session update procedure includes the following FLUS session
configuration parameters:
\- Selection of the Media session instantiation
\- Provision of session specific metadata,
\- Setting a description of the processing of the media data that the FLUS
sink is to perform,
\- Configuration of the distribution and storage options for the media data
### 4.4.4 FLUS sink capability discovery
This procedure allows a FLUS source to discover capabilities of a FLUS sink.
The FLUS sink capabilities include
\- Processing capabilities such as
\- Supported input formats, codecs and codec profiles / levels, resolutions,
frame rates
\- Transcoding with formats, output codecs, codec profiles / levels, bitrates,
etc,
\- Reformatting with output format,
\- Combination of input Media streams, e.g. network based stitching, mixing,
\- Recognition or synthesis of media
\- Distribution capabilities such as
\- Storage capabilities,
\- CDN Origin capabilities and CDN Origin Server base URLs,
\- Forwarding, including supported forwarding protocol and associated security
procedures
### 4.4.5 FLUS session termination
The FLUS source may explicitly terminate a FLUS session and all its
provisioned and active Media sessions. Alternatively, the FLUS session is
automatically terminated, when the last Media session of the FLUS session is
terminated.
## 4.5 FLUS source systems
### 4.5.1 Introduction
FLUS supports different source systems. A source system description contains
metadata on the captured media sources and their inter-relationships and is
made available to the FLUS sink such that the FLUS sink can properly interpret
and process the received Media streams. FLUS can be deployed with source
systems as defined in this specification, or with proprietary source systems.
A source system is identified by a unique identifier. That identifier and the
corresponding source system description are provided to the FLUS sink during
the FLUS session establishment and/or update procedures. The interactions
between the FLUS source and FLUS sink, in terms of HTTP-based RESTful API
request/response mechanisms, are specified in clause 7.
A set of 3GPP-defined source systems is specified in this clause.
### 4.5.2 General source systems
A generic source system transmits a collection of Media streams that can be
combined by the FLUS sink to create a full media experience. FLUS provides the
ability to stream continuous media data from a FLUS source to a FLUS sink.
Media streams within one source system are time-synchronized and self-
descriptive in the source system. Media streams are identified by a unique
identifier in a source system.
Each Media stream shall be self-declarative in the announced source system.
Media streams may be of the following types: video, audio, text or metadata.
A source system may declare additional metadata in the namespace of the source
system.
The FLUS source may query for a media processing function to fulfil the
required action through standardized interfaces, e.g., [17].
Table 4.5-1: Generic FLUS source system description
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Source | Desc | IM | Non-IM | | | | | System | ription | S-based | S-based | | | | | | | Instan | Instan | | | | | | | tiation | tiation | | | | | | | SDP | Par | | | | | | | Par | ameters | | | | | | | ameters | | | | | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+ | | Source | A URI | a=3gp | JSON | | | | | System | that | p-flus- | Object | | | | | Ide | u | system: | (So | | | | | ntifier | niquely | \ | urceSys | | | | | | ide | | temIden | | | | | | ntifies | | tifier) | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | source | | | | | | | | system | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | Config | P | a=3g | Not | | | | | uration | rovides | pp-flus | app | | | | | | source | -config | licable | | | | | | s | uration | | | | | | | ystem-s | :\ | | | | | | | par | | | | | | | | ameters | | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | | source | | | | | | | | system. | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | Media | Descr | m= | Defined | | | | | Stream | iptions | | by the | | | | | | of the | (one | F-U | | | | | | Media | per | instan | | | | | | streams | stream) | tiation | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | | source | | | | | | | | system | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | Ide | A | a= | Defined | | | | | ntifier | unique | label:f | by the | | | | | | ide | lus...\ | F-U | | | | | | ntifier | (RTP | instan | | | | | | shall | SSRC | tiation | | | | | | be | being | (may be | | | | | | ass | the | im | | | | | | ociated | unique | plicit) | | | | | | with | iden | | | | | | | the | tifier, | | | | | | | each | may be | | | | | | | Media | i | | | | | | | stream. | mplicit | | | | | | | If not | if | | | | | | | p | a=ssrc | | | | | | | resent, | is not | | | | | | | then | in | | | | | | | the | cluded) | | | | | | | source | | | | | | | | system | | | | | | | | desc | | | | | | | | ription | | | | | | | | should | | | | | | | | contain | | | | | | | | suf | | | | | | | | ficient | | | | | | | | info | | | | | | | | rmation | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | niquely | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | dentify | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | Media | | | | | | | | stream | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | source | | | | | | | | system. | | | | | | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | Stream | De | a=3 | Defined | | | | | Config | scribes | gpp-flu | by the | | | | | uration | the | s-media | F-U | | | | | | details | -config | instan | | | | | | of this | uration | tiation | | | | | | Media | :\ | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | en | | | | | | | | coding, | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | tadata, | | | | | | | | etc. | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | Media | | | | | | | | stream | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | elf-des | | | | | | | | cribing | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | source | | | | | | | | system. | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | def | | | | | | | | inition | | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | | single | | | | | | | | Media | | | | | | | | stream, | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | context | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | session | | | | | | | | desc | | | | | | | | ription | | | | | | | | infor | | | | | | | | mation, | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | rovided | | | | | | | | during | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | FLUS | | | | | | | | session | | | | | | | | establi | | | | | | | | shment, | | | | | | | | e.g. by | | | | | | | | a media | | | | | | | | line in | | | | | | | | SDP. | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | Ba | Ind | b=AS | Defined | | | | | ndwidth | ication | :\ | by the | | | | | Requ | of the | | F-U | | | | | irement | r | a=b | instan | | | | | | equired | w-info: | tiation | | | | | | network | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | ansport | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | Media | | | | | | | | streams | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | source | | | | | | | | system. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Ma | | | | | | | | ndatory | | | | | | | | if QoS | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | equired | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | QoS | Ind | a= | Defined | | | | | Requ | ication | 3gpp-qo | by the | | | | | irement | of the | s-hint: | F-U | | | | | | r | | instan | | | | | | equired | | tiation | | | | | | network | | | | | | | | QoS | | | | | | | | par | | | | | | | | ameters | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | ansport | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | Media | | | | | | | | streams | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | source | | | | | | | | system. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Reco | | | | | | | | mmended | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | pecific | | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | | and/or | | | | | | | | latency | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | equired | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | Trans | O | a=s | Defined | | | | | mission | ptional | endonly | by the | | | | | Di | ind | | F-U | | | | | rection | ication | (man | instan | | | | | | of the | datory) | tiation | | | | | | trans | | | | | | | | mission | | | | | | | | di | | | | | | | | rection | | | | | | | | of this | | | | | | | | Media | | | | | | | | streams | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | Codec | Codec | a= | Defined | | | | | | Ide | rtpmap: | by F-U | | | | | | ntifier | | instant | | | | | | | (man | iation. | | | | | | | datory) | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | Codec | Codec-s | a=fmtp: | Defined | | | | | config | pecific | | by F-U | | | | | uration | config | | instan | | | | | | uration | | tiation | | | | | | info | | | | | | | | rmation | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | Media | | | | | | | | streams | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | source | | | | | | | | system | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | Media | Media | m=\ | Defined | | | | | Type | type of |  | by F-U | | | | | | each | | instan | | | | | | Media | (man | tiation | | | | | | stream: | datory) | | | | | | | audio, | | | | | | | | video, | | | | | | | | text, | | | | | | | | etc... | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | Media | Identif | m=\ | Defined | | | | | Tr | ication |  | by F-U | | | | | ansport | of the | \ | instant | | | | | and | media |  | iation. | | | | | Control | tr | RTP/AVP | | | | | | | ansport | | | | | | | | pr | (man | | | | | | | otocol, | datory) | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | R | | | | | | | over | TP/AVPF | | | | | | | IP, for | | | | | | | | this | (if | | | | | | | Media | video | | | | | | | stream | rate | | | | | | | in the | ada | | | | | | | source | ptation | | | | | | | system | is | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | esired) | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 4.5.3 Vendor-specific source system
A vendor-specific source system shall be identified by a unique vendor-
specific urn identifier such as urn:[com]:[vendor_x]:[system_y]
### 4.5.4 Default source system
The default source system shall be identified by the unique identifier
urn:org:3gpp:flus:default:2017. This source system is used for planar media
formats.
### 4.5.5 3DOF FLUS source system
#### 4.5.5.1 Introduction
The three-degrees of freedom (3DOF) source system can be defined in a way that
enables the user to view the media content sent by the source system from a
single observation point in 3D space.
A 3DOF source system is identified with the unique identifier
urn:org:3gpp:flus:3dof:2017.
The coordinate system is defined, as well as the basic structure to describe
this source system.
#### 4.5.5.2 Coordinate system
The direction in which a FLUS sink is interested can be represented using a
coordinate system shown in figure 4.5-1, which consists of three axes, X, Y,
and Z [3]. The X axis is equal to back-to-front axis, Y axis is equal to side-
to-side (or lateral) axis, and Z axis is equal to vertical (or up) axis. Three
angles, pitch, yaw, and roll, are measured around the X, Y, and Z axes
respectively. As the torso is assumed to be fixed, the angles are assumed to
be generated by the movement of the head. If seen from the origin to the
positive direction of each axis, indicated by the arrows, each angle increases
clockwise. The X-Z plane is aligned with the ground. When looking in the
positive direction of Z axis, all angles are zero. The value ranges of yaw and
roll are both −180.0, inclusive, to 180.0, exclusive, degrees. The value range
of pitch is −90.0 to 90.0, inclusive, degrees.
Figure 4.5-1: Coordinate system at media receiver
A source system is defined as a capturing device that has a center point from
which the content is captured.
The captured content is represented in a reference system that enables a
consumer of FLUS captured content to be able to look around from a single
observation point in 3D space defined by the position of central capturing
device(s).
This ability to look around and listen from a center point in 3D space is
defined as 3 degrees of freedom (3DOF).
\- Tilting side to side on the X-axis referred to as _Roll_ ing
\- Tilting forward and backward on the Y-axis, referred to as _Pitch_ ing
\- Turning left and right on the Z-axis, referred to as _Yaw_ ing
It is worth noting that this center point is not necessarily static - it may
be moving. The center point is defined by a physical location.
The content may be combined with simultaneously captured audio that may be 3D.
Additional timed media sources may be captured and streamed to the FLUS sink.
Signals may represent a 2D signal or a spherical signal. Spherical signals
defined in this specification are represented in a spherical coordinate space
in angular coordinates (ϕ, θ) for use in omnidirectional video applications
and 3D audio. The viewing and listening perspective is from the origin
sensing/looking/hearing outward toward the inside of the sphere. The spherical
coordinates are defined so that ϕ is the azimuth (longitude, increasing
eastward) and θ is the elevation (latitude, increasing northward) as depicted
in figure 4.5-1.
Depending on the applications or implementations, not all angles may be
necessary or available at the FLUS source. The 360 video and the 3D audio may
have a restricted coverage. For example, it may not be possible for a FLUS
source to control media encoding parameters related to roll or pitch, e.g.,
when a wheel-shaped camera with a series of lenses is located on a flat
surface, in which case only yaw needs to be fed back. The means to measure
these angles is outside the scope of this document.
For video, such a center point may exist for each eye, referred to as stereo
signal. And obviously, the video consists of three color components, typically
expressed by the luminance (Y) and two chrominance components (U and V).
Although this coordinate system is defined for FLUS sink, and a FLUS source
may use a typical spherical coordinate system as defined in [2], where the
layout of loud speakers is represented with azimuth and elevation, the FLUS
source should take appropriate actions based on the geometric information it
receives from the far-end. If such a spherical coordinate system is used, the
direction at the FLUS source, when both azimuth and elevation are zero,
corresponds to the direction at FLUS sink when pitch, yaw, and roll are all
zero.
#### 4.5.5.3 Descriptive Parameters
In order to describe the media and metadata components of the system, the
description language needs to provide information on the source system as well
as each media component. The 3DOF FLUS source system is described in Table
4.5-2.
Table 4.5-2: 3DOF FLUS source System Description
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3DOF FLUS | Cardinality | Description | | | | source | | | | | | system | | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | | Source | URI | Identifier | | | | System | | of the | | | | Identifier | | source | | | | | | system as a | | | | | | URI, and in | | | | | | this | | | | | | sp | | | | | | ecification | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | set to: | | | | | | urn:o | | | | | | rg:3gpp:flu | | | | | | s:3dof:2017 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Description | | Detailed | | | | | | description | | | | | | of the | | | | | | source | | | | | | system | | | | | | including | | | | | | static | | | | | | metadata, | | | | | | etc. , and | | | | | | which shall | | | | | | be conveyed | | | | | | in a | | | | | | separate | | | | | | namespace | | | | | | from that | | | | | | of the | | | | | | Source | | | | | | System | | | | | | Identifier. | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Video | 0 ... 1 | At most one | | | | Stream | | video | | | | | | stream is | | | | | | contained. | | | | | | | | | | | | If present, | | | | | | the Media | | | | | | stream is | | | | | | identified | | | | | | by the | | | | | | media type | | | | | | \"video\", | | | | | | such that | | | | | | no | | | | | | additional | | | | | | identifier | | | | | | is needed. | | | | | | The video | | | | | | stream | | | | | | shall | | | | | | contain | | | | | | sufficient | | | | | | information | | | | | | to be | | | | | | self- | | | | | | declarative | | | | | | in the | | | | | | coordinate | | | | | | system as | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | clause | | | | | | 4.5.5.2. | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Identifier | 0 ... 1 | Unique | | | | | | identifier | | | | | | of the | | | | | | video | | | | | | stream in | | | | | | the source | | | | | | system. If | | | | | | not | | | | | | present, | | | | | | the source | | | | | | system | | | | | | should | | | | | | contain | | | | | | sufficient | | | | | | information | | | | | | to uniquely | | | | | | identify | | | | | | the video | | | | | | stream in | | | | | | the source | | | | | | system. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Type | 1 | Provides | | | | | | the type of | | | | | | the | | | | | | contained | | | | | | video | | | | | | stream | | | | | | | | | | | | - 360 | | | | | | mono: The | | | | | | video | | | | | | represents | | | | | | a single | | | | | | spherical | | | | | | video. | | | | | | | | | | | | - 360 | | | | | | stereo: The | | | | | | video | | | | | | contains | | | | | | two | | | | | | spherical | | | | | | videos, one | | | | | | for each | | | | | | eye. | | | | | | | | | | | | - Unknown: | | | | | | will be | | | | | | provided by | | | | | | source | | | | | | system. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Description | 1 | Describes | | | | | | the details | | | | | | of the | | | | | | video | | | | | | stream | | | | | | including | | | | | | the | | | | | | encoding, | | | | | | the | | | | | | metadata, | | | | | | etc. The | | | | | | Media | | | | | | stream is | | | | | | self | | | | | | -describing | | | | | | in the | | | | | | source | | | | | | system. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Audio | 0 ... 1 | If present, | | | | Stream | | the Media | | | | | | stream is | | | | | | identified | | | | | | by the | | | | | | media type | | | | | | \"audio\", | | | | | | such that | | | | | | no | | | | | | additional | | | | | | identifier | | | | | | is needed. | | | | | | The audio | | | | | | stream | | | | | | shall | | | | | | contain | | | | | | sufficient | | | | | | information | | | | | | to be | | | | | | self | | | | | | -describing | | | | | | in the | | | | | | coordinate | | | | | | system as | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | clause | | | | | | 4.5.5.2. | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Identifier | 0 ... 1 | Unique | | | | | | identifier | | | | | | of the | | | | | | audio | | | | | | stream in | | | | | | the source | | | | | | system. If | | | | | | not | | | | | | present, | | | | | | the source | | | | | | system | | | | | | should | | | | | | contain | | | | | | sufficient | | | | | | information | | | | | | to uniquely | | | | | | identify | | | | | | the audio | | | | | | stream in | | | | | | the source | | | | | | system. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Type | 1 | Defines the | | | | | | type of the | | | | | | contained | | | | | | audio | | | | | | stream: | | | | | | | | | | | | - 2D: the | | | | | | audio | | | | | | describes a | | | | | | planar | | | | | | version of | | | | | | the | | | | | | surrounding | | | | | | audio. No | | | | | | heights are | | | | | | included. | | | | | | | | | | | | - 3D: the | | | | | | audio | | | | | | includes 3 | | | | | | dimensions | | | | | | with | | | | | | heights. | | | | | | | | | | | | - Unknown: | | | | | | will be | | | | | | provided by | | | | | | source | | | | | | system. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Description | 1 | Describes | | | | | | the details | | | | | | of the | | | | | | audio | | | | | | stream | | | | | | including | | | | | | the | | | | | | encoding, | | | | | | the | | | | | | metadata, | | | | | | etc. The | | | | | | Media | | | | | | stream is | | | | | | self | | | | | | -describing | | | | | | in the | | | | | | source | | | | | | system | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Other Media | 0 ... N | If present, | | | | Stream | | each Media | | | | | | stream | | | | | | shall | | | | | | include an | | | | | | identifier | | | | | | that | | | | | | provides an | | | | | | exact | | | | | | description | | | | | | of each | | | | | | (non- video | | | | | | or audio) | | | | | | Media | | | | | | stream. | | | | | | Note that | | | | | | metadata is | | | | | | also | | | | | | considered | | | | | | as a | | | | | | separate | | | | | | Media | | | | | | stream. | | | | | | | | | | | | Each such | | | | | | Media | | | | | | stream | | | | | | shall | | | | | | contain | | | | | | sufficient | | | | | | information | | | | | | to be | | | | | | self | | | | | | -describing | | | | | | in the | | | | | | coordinate | | | | | | system | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | clause | | | | | | 4.5.5.2. | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Identifier | 1 | Unique | | | | | | identifier | | | | | | (for each | | | | | | instance) | | | | | | of the | | | | | | Media | | | | | | stream in | | | | | | the source | | | | | | system. The | | | | | | identifier | | | | | | value shall | | | | | | be provided | | | | | | to describe | | | | | | the | | | | | | metadata. | | | | | | Examples | | | | | | for | | | | | | metadata | | | | | | description | | | | | | are 4CC | | | | | | codes in | | | | | | the file | | | | | | format. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Description | 1 | Describes | | | | | | the details | | | | | | of this | | | | | | Media | | | | | | stream | | | | | | including | | | | | | the | | | | | | encoding, | | | | | | the | | | | | | metadata, | | | | | | etc. The | | | | | | Media | | | | | | stream is | | | | | | self | | | | | | -describing | | | | | | in the | | | | | | source | | | | | | system | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 4.5.6 Media production FLUS source system
In the media production use case for FLUS, typically it is the media
production centre that controls the FLUS source devices that deliver Media
streams for the media production process. The media production centre
typically is located \"behind\" the FLUS sink, on the network side and not
shown in the system architecture. The FLUS sink acts as a Media Gateway
Function. The Remote Controller function acts as proxy of the media production
centre for the control of the FLUS source devices.
When a FLUS source is set up and prepared for an event, it proceeds, either by
manual trigger or autonomously, to register with the Remote Controller
function and the media production centre. Once a FLUS source is known to the
media production center, the media production centre can take full control of
that device and the FLUS sessions. This includes the initiation, adaptation
and termination of FLUS sessions.
## 4.6 Uplink Assistance
### 4.6.1 Uplink Assistance using UNA mechanisms
The Uplink Network Assistance (UNA) feature enables a FLUS source to improve
the QoE of content up-streaming sessions, and is provided by the Network
Assistance Server (NAssS). The NAssS is out-of-band with respect to the media
up-stream path. The UNA communication is independent from the FLUS media (F-U)
and FLUS Control (F-C) communication paths, hence the UNA communication occurs
in a separate path to the transfer of the Media stream. The FLUS sink does not
need to be aware of the UNA function.
UNA is based on the model of the FLUS source requesting network assistance and
the NAssS responding to the request. The UNA functionality may be granted to a
client supporting the provision of FLUS media content with either only the
first or with both of the two functions below, in both cases based on the FLUS
source having made a request to the NAssS for Uplink Network Assistance:
\- The NAssS indicates to the FLUS source the highest suitable media rate for
the next period of up-streamed content, based on the versions that are able to
be provided;
\- The NAssS indicates to the FLUS source a temporary delivery boost facility
for occasions when the content upstream output buffer on the client risks
suffering from over-run.
Once an Uplink Network Assistance session is active, the client may issue an
Uplink Network Assistance call prior to sending the next portion of upstream
content to the FLUS sink. The Uplink Network Assistance call consists of a
single logical signalling exchange. This exchange with the NAssS activates
either the first of the above functions or a sequence of both functions; the
second only if the FLUS source was granted access to the delivery boost
function. If the client does not need a delivery boost, then the NAssS omits
the second function in the response to the FLUS source.
The Uplink Network Assistance feature is specified as a general feature of the
5G Media streaming system [16].
### 4.6.2 Uplink Assistance using RAN Signaling Mechanism
FLUS uplink assistance using RAN signaling employs bitrate recommendation and
request for bit rate increase (or boost) procedures, between the UE/FLUS
source and the RAN (eNB in E-UTRA and gNB in NR). It is modelled after and
leverages the access network bitrate recommendation mechanisms as defined in
TS 26.114 [4], TS 36.321 [19] and TS 38.321 [20].
Uplink bitrate recommendation information is sent from the RAN to the UE via
the logical ANBR (Access Network Bitrate Recommendation) message. A query for
updated bitrate recommendation information, towards assisting UE determination
of boost support, is sent from the UE to the RAN via the logical ANBRQ (ANBR
Query) message. The ANBR and ANBRQ logical messages are mapped to the
_Recommended bit rate MAC CE_ and _Recommended bit rate query MAC CE_ ,
respectively, as defined in TS 36.321 [19] and TS 38.321 [20]. Details on the
semantics and usage of these messages for RAN signaling based uplink
assistance are provided in clause 5.4.3.
Figures 4.6.2-1 illustrate the system architecture and interactions between
functional entities in the UE and the network for RAN signaling based uplink
assistance in the MTSI and non-MTSI based FLUS systems.
Figure 4.6.2-1 RAN signaling based uplink assistance in the FLUS system
It should be noted that in the MTSI-based FLUS system, ANBR support by the UE
is indicated by the media-level SDP attribute \"anbr\".
# 5 Protocols
## 5.1 General
Protocol instantiations that can be configured by the functionalities in
clause 7 may be used in the context of this specification.
## 5.2 IMS-based system
### 5.2.1 System configuration
#### 5.2.1.1 Introduction
In an IMS-based FLUS system, the FLUS control plane or F-C enables the
configuration and selection of a FLUS sink for the reception of Media streams
delivered over the FLUS user plane or F-U during a FLUS session.
#### 5.2.1.2 FLUS sink configuration and selection
The means for discovery or configuration, and selection by the FLUS source of
the FLUS sink depend on the deployment scenario and location of the FLUS sink,
as described in sub-clauses 5.2.1.2.1 and 5.2.1.2.2.
##### 5.2.1.2.1 UE-based FLUS sink
In this deployment scenario, the FLUS sink is a directly-targeted recipient of
the media content streamed by the FLUS source, The FLUS source is expected to
be aware of the identity of the FLUS sink, in the form of a SIP URI, which
will be included in the Request-Line of the SIP INVITE message. There is no
need for a separately-defined FLUS sink configuration and selection procedure
in the delivery of the SIP INVITE from the FLUS source to the FLUS sink.
##### 5.2.1.2.2 Network-based FLUS sink
In this deployment scenario, the FLUS sink is a network ingest server that
performs post-processing of the Media streams(s) uploaded from the FLUS
source, for subsequent distribution to the recipient UEs. It acts as a SIP
Application Server (AS) in the IMS network architecture, and its identity
shall be in the form of a \"FLUS Factory URI.
The FLUS source may be pre-provisioned with the FLUS Factory URI of the FLUS
sink. In that case, the FLUS source shall send the INVITE message with the
Request-Line-URI set to the value of that URI. If the FLUS Factory URI is not
pre-provisioned in the UE, the UE shall construct a default FLUS Factory URI
(similar to the procedures defined in clause 13.10 of TS 23.003 [7] regarding
default Conference Factory URI construction) in either of the following
formats:
a) sip:flus@flus-factory.operator.com, when the UE of the FLUS source contains
the ISIM application and assumes that the name of its home network domain is
\'operator.com\', or
b) sip:flus\@flus-factory.ims.mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org, when the UE
of the FLUS source does not contain the ISIM application, and has a home
network domain name of \'ims.mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org\'.
Such a FLUS Factory URI shall in turn be used by the S-CSCF to select an
appropriate FLUS sink (AS) to which the INVITE message from the FLUS source is
routed for IMS session establishment.
#### 5.2.1.3 FLUS management object
The UE may be pre-provisioned with a FLUS sink URI through a 3GPP FLUS
Management Object.
The FLUS Management Object shall have a Management Object Identifier:
\"urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-flus:1.0\". The MO shall be compatible with OMA Device
Management protocol specification version 1.2 and above as described in [21].
The following nodes for FLUS configuration are defined:
**Node: /_\ _**
This interior node specifies the unique object id of a FLUS Management Object.
The purpose of this interior node is to group together the parameters of a
single object.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Minimum Access Types: Get
The following interior nodes shall be contained if the FLUS sink in the
terminal supports the FLUS Management Object.
**_/\ /Sink/\_**
This node is a collection of information about a FLUS sink
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Minimum Access Types: Get
**_/\ /Sink/\/SIP_URI_**
This leaf node provides the SIP URI for the FLUS sink that is described by the
parent node.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: string
\- Minimum Access Types: Get
**_/\ /Sink/\/Capabilities_**
This leaf node provides a URL to a JSON or XML document that describes the
capabilities of the FLUS sink. The format of the document is outside the scope
of this specification.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: string
\- Minimum Access Types: Get
The structure of this FLUS MO is depicted in Figure 5.2-1.
**/_\ _/Sink/_\ _/Ext**
The Ext is an interior node where the vendor specific information can be
placed (vendor meaning application vendor, device vendor etc.). Usually the
vendor extension is identified by vendor specific name under the ext node. The
tree structure under the vendor identified is not defined and can therefore
include one or more un-standardized sub-trees.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Minimum Access Types: Get
**/_\ _/Ext**
The Ext is an interior node where the vendor specific information can be
placed (vendor meaning application vendor, device vendor etc.). Usually the
vendor extension is identified by vendor specific name under the ext node. The
tree structure under the vendor identified is not defined and can therefore
include one or more un-standardized sub-trees.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Minimum Access Types: Get
Figure 5.2-1: FLUS management object tree
### 5.2.2 Session management
The IMS-based FLUS System uses the SIP protocol for all session management.
The FLUS sink and FLUS source shall support the IMS procedures as defined by
TS 24.229 [12].
Use of the \"a=3gpp-qos-hint:\" SDP attribute, as described by TS 26.114 [4]
clause 6.2.7.4, is recommended for FLUS media descriptions if specific QoS in
the form of maximum loss and/or latency is required.
In addition, the following SDP offer/answer procedures apply for
\"a=label:flus...\" (see also [18]):
\- Generating the SDP offer:
\- \"a=label:flus...\" shall be included in every media description used for
FLUS media in the SDP offer, where the string after \"a=label:\" shall start
with the characters \"flus\" but may be followed by more characters, indicated
below through an ellipsis (\"...\").
\- Generating the SDP answer:
\- \"a=label:flus...\" shall be kept in every media description in the SDP
answer where \"a=label:flus...\" was received in the SDP offer and that is
accepted by the SDP answerer to be used for FLUS media. The label characters
after the initial \"flus\" may differ between offer and answer.
\- If \"a=label:flus...\" is _not_ included in a media description in the
received SDP offer, \"a=label:flus\" shall not be included in the
corresponding media description in the SDP answer.
\- Receiving the SDP answer:
\- If an accepted SDP media description in the received SDP answer contains
\"a=label:flus...\", and if \"a=label:flus...\" was also included in the
corresponding media description in the SDP offer, the media description shall
be considered as negotiated for use with FLUS media. The label characters
after the initial \"flus\" shall not be included in the comparison between SDP
offer and SDP answer.
\- If an accepted SDP media description in the received SDP answer does _not_
contain \"a=label:flus\", and if \"a=label:flus\" was included in the
corresponding media description in the SDP offer, the SDP answerer likely does
not know of FLUS media and the SDP offerer should send an SDP re-offer with
this media description disabled (port set to 0).
\- If an accepted SDP media description in the received SDP answer contains
\"a=label:flus...\", and if \"a=label:flus...\" was _not_ included in the
corresponding media description in the SDP offer, the SDP answerer is using
FLUS media \"a=label:flus...\" incorrectly and the SDP offerer shall send an
SDP re-offer with this media description disabled (port set to 0).
### 5.2.3 Data transport
The FLUS source and sink that implement the IMS-based FLUS system shall
support data transport as specified in section 7 of TS 26.114 [4].
## 5.3 Generic FLUS system
### 5.3.1 System configuration
In this version of the specification, this function is left for
implementation, but expected to be specified in a future version.
### 5.3.2 Session management
#### 5.3.2.1a FLUS sink capability discovery
A FLUS session is the association between a source and a sink. The Session
Management procedures defined in this section target the FLUS sink
configuration and management of the FLUS session.
#### 5.3.2.1b FLUS sink discovery
This procedure allows a Control Source to discover a list of available FLUS
sinks.
Figure 5.3.2.1b-1: Get current a list of available FLUS sinks
1\. The Control Source sends the FLUS sinks request to the FLUS Sink Discovery
Server.
2\. The Sink Discovery Server provides a list of FLUS sinks
#### 5.3.2.2 Create a FLUS Sink Configuration
It is assumed that the Control Source has selected a FLUS sink and acquired
the necessary information (e.g. the HTTPS URL) to establish an F-C connection
to the Control Sink of the FLUS sink.
The procedure allows a Control Source to create a new FLUS Sink Configuration.
Configuration properties and in particular FLUS media instantiation selection
is added or modified in subsequent procedures.
Figure 5.3.2.2-1: FLUS Sink Configuration creation
1\. The FLUS Sink Configuration is created. The Control Source provides a
valid access token.
2\. On successful creation, the Control Sink of the FLUS sink responds with
the resource id of the FLUS Sink Configuration. FLUS Sink Configuration
properties are fetched and modified with subsequent transactions.
5.3.2.3 Get FLUS Sink Configuration properties
The procedure allows a Control Source to fetch the current FLUS Sink
Configuration.
Figure 5.3.2.3-1: Get current FLUS Sink Configuration properties
1\. The Control Source sends along with the FLUS Sink Configuration request,
the access token and the resource id of the FLUS Sink Configuration to the
Control Sink .
2\. The Control Sink provides the FLUS Sink Configuration properties in
response.
#### 5.3.2.4 Update a FLUS Sink Configuration
The procedure allows a Control Source to update the current FLUS Sink
Configuration.
Figure 5.3.2.4-1: FLUS Sink Configuration update
The Control Source may first fetch the current FLUS Sink Configuration using
the Get FLUS Sink Configuration properties procedure.
1\. The Control Source modifies the properties of the FLUS Sink Configuration
resource. The procedure may allow modification of individual properties or all
properties.
2\. The Control Sink updates the resource identified by the id of the FLUS
Sink Configuration.
#### 5.3.2.5 FLUS session termination
The Control Source may explicitly terminate a FLUS session and all its
provisioned and active Media sessions. Alternatively, the FLUS session is
automatically terminated, when the last Media session of the FLUS session is
terminated. The procedure allows a Control Source to terminate a FLUS session.
All Media streams will be terminated automatically with the termination of the
FLUS session.
Figure 5.3.2.5-1: FLUS session termination
1\. The Control Source sends the terminate FLUS session command. The access
token and the resource id of the FLUS session is provided as input.
2\. The Control Sink terminates the FLUS session, including all active Media
streams and acknowledges the reception of the request.
#### 5.3.2.6 Void
#### 5.3.2.7 Void
#### 5.3.2.8 Void
#### 5.3.2.9 Void
#### 5.3.2.10 Session establishment for Remote Control
When remote control is needed, the Remote Control Target in the FLUS Source is
provisioned with the relevant information to establish one or more F-RC
sessions. The Remote Control Target creates the F-RC sessions and then listens
for incoming messages.
Figure 5.3.2.10-1: FLUS F-RC Session creation
1\. The F-RC session is established triggered by the Remote Control Target.
2\. On successful creation, the Remote Control Target receives a positive
acknolwedgement.
The Remote Control Target starts waiting for remote control related messages.
#### 5.3.2.11 FLUS Source capability discovery
This procedure allows discover capabilities of the FLUS Source.
Figure 5.3.2.11-1 shows the sequence diagram of the FLUS Source capability
discovery message exchange using F-RC.
The set of FLUS Source capabilities is specified in clause 5.3.5.
Figure 5.3.2.11-1: Get current FLUS source capabilities
1\. The Remote Controller functions sends the FLUS Source capability request
to the Remote Control Target of the FLUS Source.
2\. The Remote Control Target provides a list of FLUS Source capabilities in
response.
#### 5.3.2.12 Remote FLUS Source configuration creation
When the FLUS Source has established a F-RC session, the Remote Controller
function can create FLUS Source Configurations. FLUS Source Configuration
properties and in particular FLUS media instantiation selection is added in
subsequent procedures.
Figure 5.3.2.12-1 shows the sequence diagram of the remote FLUS Source
Configuration establishment message exchange.
Figure 5.3.2.12-1: Remote FLUS Source configuration creation
1\. The FLUS Source Configuration is created. The Remote Controller function
provides a valid access token.
2\. On successful creation, the Remote Control Target acknowledges the
creation. FLUS Source Configuration properties (such as the FLUS Session
information to identify the FLUS Sink resources) are fetched and modified with
subsequent transactions.
5.3.2.13 Get FLUS Source configuration properties
This procedure allows a Remote Controller function to obtain the current FLUS
Source configuration.
Figure 5.3.2.13-1 shows the sequence diagram of the FLUS Source Configuration
properties retrieval message exchange.
Figure 5.3.2.13-1: Get current FLUS Source Configuration properties
1\. The Remote Controller function sends along with the FLUS Source
Configuration properties request, the access token.
2\. The Remote Control Target of the FLUS source provides the FLUS Source
Configuration properties in response.
#### 5.3.2.14 Update FLUS Source configuration
The procedure allows a Remote Controller function to update the current FLUS
Source configuration.
Figure 5.3.2.14-1 shows the sequence diagram of the Remote FLUS Source
Configuration update message exchange.
Figure 5.3.2.14-1: Remote FLUS Source Configuration update
1\. The Remote Controller function modifies any or all of the properties of
the FLUS Source Configuration resource.
2\. The FLUS source updates the resource.
#### 5.3.2.15 Delete a FLUS Source configuration
This procedure allows a Remote Controller function to delete a FLUS Source
configuration. All active Media sessions and streams will be terminated
automatically with the termination of the FLUS session.
Figure 5.3.2.15-1 shows the sequence diagram of the Remote FLUS Source
configuration deletion message exchange.
Figure 5.3.2.15-1: Remote FLUS Source configuration deletion
1\. The Remote Controller function sends the Delete FLUS Source configuration
command.
2\. The Remote Control Target of the FLUS source deletes the FLUS Source
configuration, including all active Media streams. The Remote Control Target
may discard the FLUS session configuration.
3\. The Remote Control Target acknowledges the execution of the request.
#### 5.3.2.16 RAN signaling based uplink assistance
This procedure enables the RAN (eNB/gNB) to inform the UE (specifically, the
MAC entity of the UE containing the FLUS source) about the recommended
physical layer uplink bitrate for the associated logical channel. The bitrate
recommendation sent by the RAN may be unsolicited, or as shown in the example
below in Figure 5.3.2.16-1, in response (as a logical grant) to a boost
request from the UE.
In Figure 5.3.2.16-1, it is assumed that the uplink streaming is performed by
the FLUS source in the UE, and the sending of ANBRQ and reception of ANBR is
performed by the MAC entity in the UE. Also, it should be noted that the
procedures as shown in Figure 5.3.2.16-1 are applicable to either MTSI-based
or non-MTSI-based FLUS instantiation.
Figure 5.3.2.16-1: Uplink bitrate boost via RAN signaling
1\. Initially, the UE is streaming on the uplink at bitrate R0
2\. UE requests a boost on the uplink by sending ANBRQ containing the desired
bitrate R1.
3\. RAN grants the boost at a lower rate R2 than R1 but higher than R0, by
sending ANBR containing the recommended bitrate R0 \ **{apiRoot}/{apiName}/{apiVersion}/{apiSpecificResourceUriPart}**
with the following components:
\- The {apiRoot} shall be set as described in 3GPP TS 29.501 [21].
\- The {apiName} shall be \"flus\".
\- The {apiVersion} shall be \"v1\".
\- The {apiSpecificResourceUriPart} shall be set as described in this clause.
The **apiPath** is defined as
**{apiName}/{apiVersion}/{apiSpecificResourceUriPart}**.
The set of resources are defined in the following table:
Table 7.1.1-1: Resources for managing FLUS sessions at FLUS sink
+-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | **Resource Name** | **Resource Type** | **Description** | +===================+=======================+=======================+ | **sinks** | **Collection |** Allows discovery of | | | resource**| available Sinks as | | | | described in clause | | | | 7.2.** | | | | | | | | **The resource server | | | | of a Sinks Resource | | | | is discovery | | | | server.** | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | **Capabilities** | **Instance resource** | **Represents a single | | | | FLUS sink as | | | | described in clause | | | | 7.1.1.1. The FLUS | | | | source can query the | | | | properties of that | | | | sink. However, a FLUS | | | | source cannot create, | | | | update, or terminate | | | | a FLUS sink. The | | | | creation, update, and | | | | termination of FLUS | | | | sinks are controlled | | | | exclusively by the | | | | network** | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | session | Instance resource | Represents a single | | | | FLUS session resource | | | | as described in | | | | clause 7.1.1.2. The | | | | FLUS source can | | | | provision or modify a | | | | single session at the | | | | FLUS sink. | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | sessions | Collection Resource | Represents a | | | | collection of FLUS | | | | session resources. | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
The logical relationship between the above resources in show in Figure
7.1.1-1.
Figure 7.1.1-1: Logical relationship between FLUS resources
Note that Sinks is an array of Sink objects. Each Sink object contain a URL
indicating the location of an object describing its capabilities and sessions.
Therefore, the relationship between Sink object and resource showing its
capabilities and sessions is logical (shown by dotted arrow in Figure
7.1.1-1).
#### 7.1.1.1 Capabilities Resource
A capabilities resource provides a representation of the capabilities of a
FLUS sink. Different properties of capabilities resources represent the
capabilities of the corresponding FLUS sink.
Each capabilities resource has the set of properties described in Table
7.1.1.1-1.
Table 7.1.1.1-1: Properties of Sink Resource
+-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | | | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | **Property Name** | **Description** | **Example Values** | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | capabilities | List of supported | { "scheme" : | | | features and | urn:vnd | | | instantiations by the | :xzy:capability-name, | | | FLUS sink. Each | "location" : | | | capability is to be | "http://vnd.com/x | | | expressed using an | zy/capability-name", | | | object element of an | "url": | | | array. The object has | "http://vnd.com/xz | | | the following | y/capability-access" | | | attributes: | | | | | } | | | - A scheme URN to | | | | identify the | | | | capability | | | | | | | | - An optional | | | | location URL, from | | | | which a description | | | | for the capability | | | | can be retrieved. The | | | | format of description | | | | is defined by the | | | | scheme URN | | | | | | | | - An optional | | | | location URL, through | | | | which the feature or | | | | instantiation can be | | | | directly accessed. | | | | The access protocols | | | | and the use of | | | | feature or | | | | instantiation are | | | | defined by the | | | | scheme. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
As described in Table 7.1.1.1-1 above, each capabilties resource describes the
capabilities of the corresponding FLUS sink. A FLUS source can retrieve the
capabilites resource description of a FLUS sink and make a decision if it
wants to use the corresponding FLUS sink as described using the capability
exchange procedure in section 7.3.
The attributes in Table 7.1.1.1-1 may be used for the following purposes:
  * "scheme": to identify the capability with a unique id. This id is also used to identify the format of the capability's description document identified by the attribute "location"
  * "location": the address where a document can be found that describes the detailed properties and configuration of the capability such as supported features, the configuration parameters, and the units and ranges of parameters.
  * "url": the address for using the capability. For instance, if the capability needs set up, this address can be used to configure the capability. As an example, the url for a network-based media processing (NBMP) is the URL address of the NBMP Workflow Manager that enables creating, retrieving, getting an update, and deleting the workflow from this address.
#### 7.1.1.2 Session Resource
A Session resource provides the representation of a session between a FLUS
source and a FLUS sink. A FLUS source can create a session at a FLUS sink
using REST API methods operating on the session resource described in this
section.
Each session resource has the set of properties described in Table 5.3.6.
FLUS sources use the above session resource representation to create and
manage sessions at the selected FLUS sink. Different procedures that operate
on the sink and session resources are discussed in the following sections.
### 7.1.2 Supported Methods
The F-C API follows the RESTful design principles. All operations shall be
performed using HTTP 1.1 (IETF RFC 7231 [6]) over TLS (3GPP TS 33.246 [7])
Table 7.1.2-1: Supported Methods
**HTTP Method** **CRUD** **Resource** **{apiPath}**
* * *
POST Create Session /flus/v1.0/sessions GET Read Session
/flus/v1.0/sessions/{session-res-id} GET Read Sink /flus/v1.0/sinks GET Read
Capabilities /flus/v1.0/capabilities PUT Replace Session
/flus/v1.0/sessions/{session-res-id} PATCH Modify Session
/flus/v1.0/sessions/{session-res-id} DELETE Delete Session
/flus/v1.0/sessions/{session-res-id}
### 7.1.3 Error Handling
The Uplink Streaming Interface API shall use the HTTP status codes to indicate
any errors that might occur in the processing of operations on FLUS resources.
Unless defined otherwise, the HTTP status codes shall be interpreted as
specified in IETF RFC 7231 [6]. API operations that are not successfully
handled shall not leave the resource at an undefined state. The response
should provide sufficient information for a human operator to understand and
locate the error.
## 7.2 Discovery
**Example: GET /flus/v1.0/sinks**
The FLUS sink discovery procedure is used by the FLUS source to discover
available FLUS sinks that are provided by the operator.
To query the list of available FLUS sinks, the FLUS source shall use one of
the following procedures:
\- The operator provides one or more FLUS sink Discovery Server URLs to the
FLUS source. The Control Sources uses the pre-defined URL \"apiPath\"
/flus/v1.0/sinks in an HTTP request to the FLUS Discovery Server URL above.
The response shall be a JSON document that represents an array of object
containing each the apiRoot to the entry point to the FLUS Sink as value of
property \"apiRoot\" and optionally the capabilities of the FLUS Sinks.
\- DNS discovery of the FLUS sink, using the FQDN
flus.mnc\.mcc\.pub.3gppnetwork.org in the URL of form
An example json document, describing two FLUS sinks is
[
{\"apiRoot\" : \"https://sink1.example.com/api\", \"capabilities\" :
[\"urn:vnd:xzy:capability-name\"] },
{\"apiRoot\" : \"https://sink2.example.com\"}
]
## 7.3 Capability retrieval
**Example: GET /flus/v1.0/capabilities**
Using this capability exchange procedure, the Control Source enquires about
the supported features and instantiations of the FLUS capabilities.
To retrieve the capabilities of a FLUS sink, the FLUS source shall use the
HTTP GET method on the \"sink\" instance resource as follows:
\- the request URI with the \"apiPath\" is set to \"/flus/v1.0/capabilities\"
\- the Host field is set to the FQDN of the FLUS sink
The URL in the request is set according to the information retrieved using the
Discovery procedure described in section 7.2.
The capabilities resource information provides in detail the capabilities of
the FLUS sink. The response from the Control Sink to the Control Source shall
contain the following:
\- The Content-Type field specifying the MIME type (JSON) using which the
capabilitesresource information is encoded.
\- The Content-Length is the length of the content body.
The above header fields are followed by the content body in the format
indicated by the Content-Type field. The content body includes the detailed
representation of the capabilites resource as described in section 7.1.1.1
from which the capabilities of that FLUS sink can be inferred.
The possible response messages from the Control Sink to the Control Source are
shown in Table 7.3-1.
Table 7.3-1: Response status code, message, and contents for sink resource
retrieval using HTTP GET
**Status Code** **Message** **Contents**
* * *
200 OK The request has succeeded The FLUS sink provides the sink capabilities
to the FLUS source. 403 Forbidden Request cannot be fulfilled The FLUS sink
may include optional text to indicate why the request could not be fulfilled
Note: In addition to the above response codes, the Control Source can also
send appropriate response codes described in IETF RFC 7231 [6] as applicable.
## 7.4 Uplink streaming configuration
### 7.4.1 FLUS session properties fetch procedure
**Example: GET /flus/v1.0/sessions/{session-res-id}**
Sessions can be read by the FLUS source when it wishes to know the latest
representation of the session resource at the FLUS sink. To fetch the
properties of a FLUS session, the Control Source sends a HTTP GET request to
the Control Sink as follows:
\- the request URI with the \"apiPath\" set to \"/flus/v1.0/sessions/{session-
res-id}\"
\- the Host field is set to the FQDN of the FLUS sink
The {session-res-id} in the request URI is the session resource identifier of
the session previously created between the FLUS source and the FLUS sink.
Upon receiving HTTP GET request from the Control Source, the Control Sink
checks to see if such a session exists that matches the given session resource
identifier. If such a session exists, the Control Sink shall respond to the
Control Source with a 200 OK message along with the complete representation of
the session resource. The response shall contain the following:
\- The Content-Type field specifying the MIME type (JSON) using which the
session resource information is encoded.
\- The Content-Length is the length of the content body.
The content body of this response message shall be the representation of the
session resource as described in sub clause 7.1.1.2
Alternatively, if such a session cannot be found by the Control Sink, it shall
send a 404 Not Found message to the Control Source. If the request cannot be
fulfilled, the Control Sink shall send a 403 Forbiddent message to the Control
Source.
The possible response messages from the FLUS sink, depending on whether the
GET request is successful or unsuccessful, are shown in Table 7.4.1-1.
Table 7.4.1-1: Response status code, message, and contents for service
modification using HTTPS GET
**Status Code** **Message** **Contents**
* * *
200 OK The request has succeeded The FLUS sink provides session properties of
the session resource to the FLUS source 403 Forbidden Request cannot be
fulfilled The FLUS sink may include optional text to indicate why the request
could not be fulfilled 404 Not Found Requested resource not found None Note:
In addition to the above response codes, the Control Sink can also send
appropriate response codes described in IETF RFC 7231 [6] as applicable.
### 7.4.2 FLUS session update procedure
The sessions at the FLUS sink can be either partially or completely modified
by using the procedures as specified in clauses 7.4.2.1 and 7.4.2.2,
respectively.
#### 7.4.2.1 Partial modification of FLUS session
**Example: PATCH /flus/v1.0/session/{session-res-id}**
To update some of the FLUS session parameters at the sink, the Control
Sourcesends an HTTP PATCH request as follows:
\- the request URI with the \"apiPath\" is set to
\"/flus/v1.0/sessions/{session-res-id}\"
\- the Host field is set to the FQDN of the FLUS sink
\- The Content-Type field specifying the MIME type (JSON) using which the
session resource information is encoded.
\- The Content-Length is the length of the content body.
The {session-res-id} in the request URI is the session resource identifier of
the session whose modification is sought.
The content body of the HTTP PATCH message shall contain the updated partial
representation of the session resource.
Upon receiving the HTTP PATCH request from the Control Source, the Control
Sink checks to see if such a session exists at the sink. If such a sink
exists, Control Sink may update the session properties based on the values
from the incoming request. Upon successful update of the requested session,
the Control Sink shall respond to the Control Source with a 200 OK success
message indicating that the session was successfully updated. The Control Sink
shall also include the session resource identifier of the session that is
updated. As alternative to the 200 OK message, Control Sink may send a 204 No
Content success message without any message content to the Control Source. If
the session cannot be updated, the Control sink shall send a 403 message. If
the session is not found, the FLUS sink shall send a 404 message.
The possible response messages from the FLUS sink, depending on whether the
PATCH request is successful or unsuccessful, are shown in Table 7.4.2.1-1.
Table 7.4.2.1-1: Response status code, message, and contents for session
modification using HTTP PATCH
**Status Code** **Message** **Contents**
* * *
200 OK The request has succeeded The FLUS sink provides the session resource
identifier of the session that is modified 204 No Content The request has
succeeded None 403 Forbidden Request cannot be fulfilled The FLUS sink may
include optional text to indicate why the request could not be fulfilled 404
Not Found Requested resource not found None Note: In addition to the above
response codes, the Control Sink can also send appropriate response codes
described in IETF RFC 7231 [6] as applicable.
#### 7.4.2.2 Full modification of FLUS session
**Example: PUT /flus/v1.0/sessions/{session-res-id}**
For complete update of the session parameters at the Control Source, the FLUS
source sends an HTTP PUT request as follows:
\- the request URI with the \"apiPath\" is set to
\"/flus/v1.0/sessions/{session-res-id}\"
\- the Host field is set to the FQDN of the FLUS sink
\- The Content-Type field specifying the MIME type (JSON) using which the
session resource information is encoded.
\- The Content-Length is the length of the content body.
The {session-res-id} in the request URI is the session resource identifier of
the session whose modification is sought.
The content body of the HTTP PUT message shall contain the updated complete
representation of the session resource.
Upon receiving the HTTP PUT request from the Control Source, the Control Sink
checks to see if such a session exists at the sink. If such a sink exists,
Control Sink may update the session properties based on the values from the
incoming request. Upon successful update of the requested session, the Control
Sink shall respond to the Control Source with a 200 OK success message
indicating that the session was successfully updated. The Control Sink shall
also include the session resource identifier of the session that is updated.
As alternative to the 200 OK message, Control Sink may send a 204 No Content
success message without any message content to the Control Source. If the
session cannot be updated, the Control Sink shall send a 403 message. If the
session is not found, the Control Sink shall send a 404 message.
The possible response messages from the FLUS sink, depending on whether the
PATCH request is successful or unsuccessful, are shown in Table 7.4.2.2-1.
Table 7.4.2.2-1: Response status code, message, and contents for session
modification using HTTP PATCH
**Status Code** **Message** **Contents**
* * *
200 OK The request has succeeded The FLUS sink shall send the session resource
identifier of the session that is modified 204 No Content The request has
succeeded None 403 Forbidden Request cannot be fulfilled The FLUS sink may
include optional text to indicate why the request could not be fulfilled 404
Not Found Requested resource not found None Note: In addition to the above
response codes, the Control Sink can also send appropriate response codes
described in IETF RFC 7231 [6] as applicable.
## 7.5 Session establishment
**Example: POST /flus/v1.0/sessions**
To create a session at the FLUS sink, the Control Source shall use the HTTP
POST method on the \"sessions\" collection resource as follows:
\- the request URI with the \"apiPath\" is set to \"/flus/v1.0/sessions\"
\- the Host field is set to the FQDN of the FLUS sink
\- the Content-Type field specifying the MIME type (JSON) using which the
session resource information is encoded.
\- the Content-Length is the length of the content body.
The content body of the POST request shall contain the representation of the
session resource. The session resource representation includes the details
such as the Media streams, their formats and codecs, the relationship between
them, and the selected user plane instantiation and user plane control
protocol.
Upon receipt of HTTP POST to create a session, the Control Sink shall create a
session. Upon successful creation of session resource, theControl Sink shall
respond back to the Control Source with a 201 success message indicating that
the session is successfully created along with the session resource of the
created session. The session information returned to the Control Source along
with the 201 message includes the parameters applied for the session, thus
confirming the parameters, and any default values assigned to session
parameters which were not supplied by the Control Source in the HTTP POST
message.
The session resource identifier is the identifier that uniquely identifies the
session within the list of all sessions at that sink. When the Control Source
receives the session resource identifier, it shall use this identifier in
subsequent requests to the Control Sink to refer to this session.
Alternatively, if the creation of session is failed, the Control Sink shall
send a 403 message.
The possible response messages from the FLUS sink, depending on whether the
POST request is successful or unsuccessful, are shown in Table 7.5-1.
Table 7.5: Response status code, message, and contents for session creation
**Status Code** **Message** **Contents**
* * *
201 Created Session created successfully The FLUS sink provides the session
resource identifier of the created session and detailed session information
403 Forbidden Request cannot be fulfilled The FLUS sink may include optional
text to indicate why the request could not be fulfilled Note: In addition to
the above response codes, the Control Sink can also send appropriate response
codes described in IETF RFC 7231 [11] as applicable
## 7.6 Session termination
**Example: DELETE /flus/v1.0/sessions/{session-res-id}**
To terminate a FLUS session, the Control Source shall use the HTTP DELETE
method on the \"session\" instance resource as follows:
\- the request URL with the \"apiPath\" is set to
\"/flus/v1.0/sessions/{session-res-id}\"
\- the Host field is set to the FQDN of the FLUS sink
The {session-res-id} is the session resource identifier for which the session
termination is sought.
Upon reception of a HTTP DELETE request, the Control Sink will check to see if
the session with the given session resource identifier exists at the given
sink. If such a session exists, the Control Sink shall delete the session
instance associated with the given session resource identifier. Further, the
Control Sink responds back to the Control Source with a 200 success message
along with the session resource identifier indicating that the session was
successfully deleted. Alternately, if the session cannot be deleted, the
Control Sink shall send a 403 Forbidden message. If the session was not found,
or if the sink was not found, the Control Sink returns back with a 404
message.
The possible response messages from the Control Sink, depending on whether the
DELETE request is successful or unsuccessful, are shown in Table 5.2.2.2.4-1.
Table 7.6-1: Response status code, message, and contents for session deletion
**Status Code** **Message** **Contents**
* * *
200 OK The request has succeeded The FLUS sink shall send the session resource
identifier of the session that is deleted 204 No Content The request has
succeeded None 403 Forbidden Request cannot be fulfilled The FLUS sink may
include optional text to indicate why the request could not be fulfilled 404
Not Found Requested resource not found None Note: In addition to the above
response codes, the Control Sink can also send appropriate response codes
described in IETF RFC 7231 [6] as applicable.
# 8 FLUS Security
## 8.1 IMS-based FLUS
Security functionality for IMS is specified at both the control and media
planes. From the FLUS system perspective, it is described in clause 4.2.1 that
the FLUS media/user planes contain both the Media session establishment and
the subsequent media data transmission functions. In other words, in an IMS-
based FLUS system, both the IMS control and media plane security
functionalities are combined in FLUS media and F-U as shown in Figure 4.2-2.
From a logical standpoint, security functionality pertaining to session
establishment procedures in the IMS-based FLUS system corresponds to IMS
control plane security, which in turn consists of access and core network
related security functions. The former, on access security, is defined in TS
33.203 [8], while the core network security functionality is defined in TS
33.210 [9]. Media data transmission in the IMS-based FLUS system include RTP
transport of continuous media content, and its associated security
functionality is defined in TS 33.328 [10].
## 8.2 Non-IMS-based FLUS
In this version of the specification, this function is left for
implementation, but expected to be specified in a future version.
# 9 Media Codec Profiles
## 9.1 General
This clause specifies media codec profiles recommended for use with the
Framework for Live Uplink Streaming. However, as a framework, FLUS is flexible
enough to support use of other codecs and encapsulations that are not
specified in any of the profiles.
## 9.2 IMS-based FLUS
If the FLUS source supports the default profile for live uplink streaming it
shall support encoding requirements specified in clauses 5.3.2, 5.3.4, and
5.3.5 of [23] and the following encapsulation:
> If the transmission of video is supported, then the RTP payload format of
> H.265/HEVC as specified in RFC 7798 [24] shall be supported
>
> If the transmission of speech is supported, then the:
>
> \- RTP payload format of EVS as specified in TS 26.445 [25] shall be
> supported
>
> \- RTP payload format of AMR-WB as specified in RFC 4867 [26] should be
> supported
>
> \- RTP payload format of AMR as specified in RFC 4867 [26] may be supported
>
> If the transmission of audio is supported, then RTP payload format of eAAC+
> as specified in RFC 6416 [27] shall be supported
## 9.3 Non-IMS-based FLUS
If the FLUS source supports the default profile for live uplink streaming it
shall support the encoding and encapsulation requirements specified in clause
5.3 of [23].
If the FLUS source supports the 360 Virtual Reality profile for live uplink
streaming it shall support the encoding and encapsulation requirements
specified in clause 5.6 of [23].
# 10 Remote Control
## 10.1 General
The FLUS Source may support a remote control interface through the F-RC. The
Remote Control Target in the FLUS Source may subscribe to one or more remote
control channels. If the remote control interface is supported, the Remote
Control Target in the FLUS Source and the Remote Controller shall implement
the MQTT protocol as specified in [21] for remote control.
The Remote Control Target shall connect at the FLUS session start-up to the
MQTT Broker and may provide authorization credentials at subscription.
The Remote Control Target shall subscribe at the FLUS session start-up to one
or more MQTT topics to receive remote control commands. The MQTT Broker may
restrict subscription to MQTT topics.
The Remote Controller shall connect to the MQTT Broker and provide
authorization credentials. The MQTT Broker shall restict publication to only
authorized clients using authorization rules.
If remote control is supported, the Remote Controller and the Remote Control
Target shall be provisioned with the MQTT broker address. In the IMS-based
FLUS, the "a=remote_control_url:" session level attribute shall be used to
signal the broker's address. The URI scheme shall be a "wss" or "mqtts".
The MQTT Topics shall be structured as defined in Clause 9.2.
The MQTT Messages may be formated according to Clause 9.3.
## 10.2 Usage of MQTT
The Topic shall be formatted according to the following ABNF syntax:
Topic=session_id "/" protocol [ "/" remote_controller_id ] ["/"
media_source_id]
The session_id shall be the SIP session identifier for the IMS-based FLUS (as
provided by the Session-ID SIP header [22]) or the F_C session resource id for
the Generic FLUS. Note that topic names are case sensitive.
The protocol shall be a globally unique identifier of the application remote
control protocol. The protocol defines the format of the payload message.
The remote_controller_id shall be a unique identifier of the remote
controller. A Remote Control Target in the FLUS Source may receive message
from different Remote Control Targets.
The media_source_id shall contain the unique identifier of the media source in
that session. When the media_source_id is omitted, then the message should be
applied to all media sources of that FLUS source. In case no media_source_id
is provided in the PUBLISH or SUBSCRIBE messages, then all media sources of
the FLUS Source are targetted by that message.
A Remote Control Target shall at least subscribe to the
"session_id/protocol/#" topic, enabling the reception of message from any
authorized Remote Controller and for any Media Source.
## 10.3 RC Framing Message Format
The following message framing for information exchange (e.g. the request and
response) using F-RC may be used when delivering a message.
The remote control message shall be formatted as a json [RFC8259] formatted
object.
\- The json object contains three name / value pairs:
\- The first name / value pair represents the start line of an HTTP message.
The name is "startLine" and the value is string according to RFC 8259.
\- The second name / value pair represents the optional headers. The name is
"headers". The value is a json array of json object.
\- Each json object of the array contains the key and the value of a single
HTTP header.
\- The Host HTTP header may be omitted, since the WebSocket Connection is
already established.
\- The third name / value pair represents the optional body. The name is
"body" and it is formatted according to the Content-Type header field. The
content type of the body object is defined by the individual API.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Example deployment scenarios for FLUS sub-
functions
# A.0 General
This informative Annex illustrates several deployment examples for FLUS sub-
functions. There may be additional deployments possible. The intention is to
show different co-location options.
The 3GPP network is located between the Media Source and the Media Sink sub-
function. Leveraging network services such as Quality of Service (QoS) is
possible but not described in these deployment scenarios.
FLUS defines a Framework for uplink streaming and additional functions and
interfaces may be added by implementation to realize a full uplink streaming
service. All FLUS sub-functions expose local, undefined APIs, which can be
used by other defined or undefined functions. Additional, service specific
interfaces are possible and not depicted.
The FLUS Control (F-C) and FLUS Remote Control (F-RC) interface may be
extended by implementations with additional configuration parameters, for
example for capture device configurations or post processing and distribution
function configurations.
The service specific implementation secures the sequencing of different FLUS
functions and the correct instance provisioning using the local APIs.
# A.1 Deployment with minimal FLUS sub-functions
## A.1.1 Introduction
This clause describes deployments with minimal FLUS sub-functions from the
standpoint that only F-U and F-C end-points are instantiated.
## A.1.2 Deployment with a Media Source and a Control Source co-located in the
same device
This clause describes a deployment scenario whereby the Control Source and the
Media Source are implemented in the same device. The Media Source is
provisioned via a local API, which includes at least the selected F-U
instantiation, the Media Sink ingest information and optionally other
information.
Figure A.1.2-1: Deployment with Minimal FLUS Subfunctions
It is assumed that the workflow is started from the Control Source. For
_example, via interaction with a User Interface (UI) and associated API, a
human user causes the Control Source to set up and control the FLUS session_.
Additional application functions provision the Media Source (using the local
API) according to the input to the Control Source.
## A.1.3 Deployment with non-colocated Control Source and Media Source
This clause describes a deployment scenario whereby the Control Source and the
Media Source are implemented in different functional entities. It is an
example of the professional media production use case as described in TR
26.939 [22] whereby a production center facility, remotely located from the
capture device, controls the establishment and termination of the FLUS session
via F-C. The functional entity in which the Control Source is located is
referred to as the CTRL entity.
Figure A.1.3-1: Deployment with minimal FLUS sub-functions
It is assumed that the workflow is started from the Control Source. For
example, via interaction with an UI and associated API, a human operator
causes the Control Source function to establish and control the FLUS session.
It is assumed that the Media Source has a local GUI so that it can be
provisioned, via the selected F-U instantiation, the Media Sink ingest
information and other implementation-specific configurations.
# A.2 Deployments with FLUS remote control sub-functions
## A.2.1 Introduction
This clause describes deployment scenarios whereby FLUS remote control sub-
functions are present. Examples of implementations corresponding to the
depicted system architectures are described in the sub-clauses below.
## A.2.2 Deployment with stand-alone Control Source and Remote Controller sub-
functions
This clause contains a deployment, where the Control Source and the Remote
Controller are deployed on the same device (called CTRL device). The Remote
Control Target is co-located with the Media Source on the same device (the
FLUS Source). The architecture as shown in Figure A.2.2.1-1 is an example of
the drone-mounted camera deployment scenario whereby a human user operated
remote controller device performs the remote control of the drone camera for
video capture and upstream delivery, as well as establishment/termination of
the FLUS session, via F-C, in which media content transmission subsequently
takes place via F-U.
Figure A.2.2-1: Deployment with stand-alone Control Source and Remote
Controller sub-functions
The CTRL device is able to communicate with both the FLUS Source and the FLUS
sink. The CTRL entity is the primary function in performing configuration and
control of the FLUS Source and FLUS Sink. The FLUS Source is configured at
least with the address of the Remote Controller function within the CTRL
device.
The Remote Control Target is provisioned with the address of the Remote
Controller. Once the F-RC session is established, the FLUS Source can be
provisioned via F-RC.
The F-U instantiation and the Media Sink selection is configured via F-RC. The
F-RC interface can provide additional, implementation specific properties to
support the provisioning of the Capture Device.
## A.2.3 Deployment with a Remote Controller co-located with a Control Sink
sub-function
This clause describes a deployment scenario whereby the Remote Controller is
co-located with the Control Sink on the same functional entity. The Remote
Control Target is deployed with the Media Source on the same device (the FLUS
Source). It is an example of the professional media production use case as
described in TR 26.939 [22] whereby a production center facility, remotely
located from the capture device, controls the establishment and termination of
the FLUS session via F-C, as well as performs remote control of the media
capture equipment at a separate location (e.g., the event venue of a sports
match or musical performance).
The FLUS Source is provisioned with the Remote Controller information via a
local API. The FLUS Source receives the provisioning information of the
selected F-U instantiation and the Media Sink ingest information via the
Remote Control Interface.
It is possible to deploy FLUS Sink functions within a public cloud. The FLUS
sink can be configured by a CTRL device, which is located behind a NAT /
Firewall, such as within an enterprise network or within a PLMN. The FLUS
Source functions are located on a wireless device, which is deployed within a
PLMN. Traffic routing policies forbid the direct communication between the
FLUS Sink and the CTRL entity.
Figure A.2.3-1: Deployment with a Remote Controller co-located with a Control
Sink sub-function
It is assumed, that the CTRL device is used as the main control function. FLUS
defines a framework which supports the extension of existing F-C or F-RC
interfaces with implementation configurations.
It is assumed the service specific implementation extends the F-C information
with additional FLUS Source configuration information, so that the CTRL device
can be the origin of the FLUS Sink configuration and the FLUS Source
configuration. The FLUS Source configuration is relayed by an implementation-
specific function from the Control Sink into the Remote Controller using local
APIs.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Network-Based Media Processing (NBMP)
B.1. Introduction
MPEG NBMP in ISO/IEC 23090-8 [17] defines a framework that enables
initializing and controlling media processing in the network. An NBMP Source
describes the required media processing including the input and output formats
and protocols, the required processing and configuration information. Based on
this request, the NBMP Workflow Manager establishes the media processing
workflow and informs the NBMP Source that the workflow is ready to start the
processing. The Media Source(s) can then start transmitting their media to the
network for processing.
NBMP control plane covers the following APIs (REST resources):
\-- Workflow API is used by NBMP Source to request NBMP Workflow Manager
create and run a media processing workflow
\-- Function Discovery API provides the means for Workflow Manager and/or NBMP
Source to discover media processing Functions that can be instantiated as part
of a media processing Workflow.
\-- Task API is used by the NBMP Workflow Manager to configure, manage and
monitor a Task at runtime.
The Workflow Description Document (WDD), Task Description Document (TDD) and
Function Description Document (FDD) are exchanged using the above APIs as JSON
objects.
On the media plane, NBMP describes the media formats, the metadata, and the
supplementary information formats between the NBMP Source and the Task, as
well as between the Tasks themselves.
Figure B.1 depicts the NBMP reference architecture depicting the above control
plane and media plane interactions.
Figure X.1 -- NBMP reference architecture
NBMP can be used for initiating media processing workflows such as 360
stitching, guided transcoding, overlaying on image or video backgrounds or
view-dependent content customization.
B.2. NBMP Use in FLUS
The MPEG NBMP [17] Workflow Description Document (WDD) may be used to describe
the media processing tasks at the FLUS sink to be performed on received media
components from the FLUS source. As described in clause 5.3.6, NBMP WDD may be
signalled as part of FLUS Sink Configuration properties.
###### ##
#