# Foreword
This technical description has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project, Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects, Working Group 4 (Codec).
The present document is a description of the Cellular Text Telephone Modem
solution for reliable transmission of a text telephone conversation via the
speech channel of cellular or PSTN networks.
The contents of the present document is subject to continuing work within 3GPP
and may change following formal 3GPP approval. Should the 3GPP TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the 3GPP TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to 3GPP for information;
2 presented to 3GPP for approval;
3 Indicates 3GPP approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 1 Scope
This Technical Standard (TS) describes the minimum performance requirements
for the Cellular Text Telephone Modem (CTM) for reliable transmission of text
telephone text via the speech channel of cellular or PSTN networks. The
transmitting parts of the Cellular Text Telephone Modem are specified in [1].
CTM is a general technology, independent of text telephone types. The tests
are made only for one specific type of text telephone, the Baudot type. The
tests are applicable only to a combination of a Baudot codec and CTM and tests
the combined performance. A bit-exact implementation of the CTM transmitter as
well as an example implementation of the remaining functions of such a
combination are provided in [2].
The test scripts and test vectors required to perform this testing are
included in a supplement, which is located in the zip archive ctm_testing.zip.
The path and file names given in this specification refer to the file
structures associated with this supplement. A second supplement (zip archive
ctm_score.zip) provides the scoring program that is described in clause 6.
# 2 Normative references
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 26.226: \"Cellular Text Telephone Modem (CTM), General
Description\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.230: \"Cellular Text Telephone Modem (CTM), Transmitter Bit
Exact C‑Code\".
[3] TIA/EIA-IS 840: \"Minimum Performance Standards for Text Telephone Signal
Detector and Text Telephone Signal Regenerator\".
[4] GSM 05.02: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Multiplexing and multiple access on the radio path\".
[5] GSM 05.05: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Radio
transmission and reception\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
For the purposes of this TS, the following abbreviations apply:
AMR Adaptive Multi Rate Codec
CTM Cellular Text Telephone Modem
FR Full Rate Codec
HCO Hearing Carry Over, (individual may be able to hear, but cannot speak);
Alternating of sending speech and text.
MS Mobile Station
PCM Pulse Code Modulation
PCS Personal Communication System
TCER Total Character Error Rate
TTY Text Telephone
VCO Voice Carry Over, Alternating use of speech and text
# 4 Test vectors
The following test signals are provided for use in testing compliance to the
minimum performance requirements. All signals are raw data, linear 16‑bit
signed PCM coded audio data at a sampling rate of 8000 Hz. All files are coded
in Big‑Endian format (most significant byte first) as it is used e.g. by SUN
Microsystems Sparc^TM^ Workstations. The files are located in the directory
./patterns of the zip‑archive ctm_testing.zip.
baudot.pcm
sine1400.pcm
sine1800.pcm
test1.pcm
test2.pcm
test3.pcm
zeros4000.pcm
ctm_master_clean.pcm
ctm_master.txt
ctm_typingmode.pcm
ctm_test_resync.pcm
The first six files contain test signals with Baudot tones and are required
for the test scripts test_negotiation and test_false_detections. Furthermore,
a file zeros4000.pcm is provided that contains a zero‑valued signal.
The files ctm_master.txt and ctm_master_clean.pcm contain a text message with
random characters and the corresponding CTM signal. These files are required
for the tests in subclause 7.2.
The files ctm_typingmode.pcm and ctm_test_resync.pcm are required for the
tests in subclauses 7.4 and 7.5, respectively.
# 5 Test Scripts
For the tests in subclauses 7.1, 7.3 and 7.5, the following two test scripts
are provided in the root directory of the zip‑archive ctm_testing.zip:
test_negotiation
test_false_detections
test_resynchonization
All test scripts assume that the tested CTM modules have interfaces as defined
in [2] (e.g., the procedure calls, syntax, parameters). All test scripts have
been tested using a C-shell (csh) command interpreter on a SUN Microsystems
Solaris^TM^ platform.
# 6 Scoring program
A tool \"ctm_score\" for the calculation of the character error rate is
provided in the attachment ctm_score.zip. This zip archive includes the source
code of the scoring program as well as a short documentation (provided in the
file Readme.txt). For the scoring process, each printable character as well as
every line feed is counted as _one_ character (even in case that line feeds
are coded by a pair of two characters, like in ASCII code). A description how
to use this tool in the context of this Technical Standard is provided in
subclause 7.2.
# 7 Description of the test
## 7.1 Test of the negotiation between two CTM Adaptation Modules
The test script test_negotiation performs a test of the negotiation between
two CTM devices using the following structure. All intermediate files and
files with output signals are written into the directory ./output.
A CTM implementation and a Baudot 45.45 baud codec shall be combined to form a
CTM adaptation module under test. The source code for an example
implementation of this CTM adaptation module is provided in [2]. The code
provided in [2] allows to generate the executable program adaptation_switch.
First, the adaptation module #1 is executed. At this first run, the signal
ctm_backward is not known. Therefore, the negotiation does not get a positive
acknowledge, so that the transmission falls back to Baudot Tones.
Then signal adaptation module #2 is executed for the first time.
After that, adaptation module #1 is executed for the second time. With this
second run, the signal ctm_backward is valid. Therefore, the negotiation
receives a valid acknowledge, so that CTM signals are transmitted.
At last, adaptation module #2 is executed for the second time. With this run,
adaptation module #2 receives a valid CTM signal so that the baudot_out.pcm
signal can be generated.
After executing each of the modules twice, the signal baudot_out.pcm is
analyzed. This analysis is also performed by the program adaptation_switch.
First, the Baudot detector of adaptation_switch is used for this analysis in
order to examine whether the regenerated Baudot signal can be decoded
correctly.
The following step is optional for handsets:
\"In a second step it is examined whether the regenerated signal still
contains any CTM preambles. This investigation is performed by means of the
CTM detector that is integrated in adaptation_switch. This last test fails if
the CTM detector is able to detect any CTM preamble in the regenerated
signal\".
During the execution of the script test_negotiation the following text output
shall be generated:
=====================================================
Execute adaptation module #1 (first pass)
=====================================================
********************************************************************
Cellular Text Telephone Modem (CTM) - Example Implementation for
Conversion between CTM and Baudot Code (use option -h for help)
********************************************************************
number of samples to process: 100000
>>> Enquiry Burst generated! \>> Enquiry Burst generated! \>> Enquiry Burst generated! \>> CTM from far-end detected! \>> Enquiry From Far End Detected! \>> Enquiry From Far End Detected! \>> Enquiry From Far End Detected! \>> Enquiry Burst generated! \>> CTM from far-end detected! \>> CTM from far-end detected! \>> Enquiry From Far End Detected! \ -textout \
\\\ -baudotout /dev/null --baudotin zeros4000.pcm --ctmout /dev/null
\ denotes a file with raw PCM data (16 bit signed
integer), which represents the signal that has been transmitted via the speech
channel.
\ denotes the output text file with the decoded message,
which will be generated by adaptation_switch.
The decoded text message has to be analyzed in order to determine the number
of character errors that have been caused due to the transmission. The
character error rate is defined as
number_of_all_errors\ character_error_rate = \---------------------------\
length_of_reference_text\ \ \ number_of_all_errors =
number_of_deleted_characters +\ number_of_inserted_characters +\
number_of_replaced_characters
A tool \"ctm_score\" for the calculation of the character error rate is
provided in the attachment ctm_score.zip. This zip archive includes the source
code of the scoring program as well as a short documentation (provided in the
file Readme.txt). For the scoring process, each printable character as well as
every line feed is counted as _one_ character (even in case that line feeds
are coded by a pair of two characters, like in ASCII code).
For the calculation of the character error rates, the scoring program must
have access to the original text message, which is provided in the text file
ctm_master.txt in the attached zip archive ctm_testing.zip. The syntax for
calling the score program is as follows:
ctm_score ctm_master.txt \ \
\ is a text file generated by ctm_score, which describes the
number of character errors, the length of the reference text, as well as the
character error rate.
The original text message is as follows:
BEGINNING RANDOM CHARACTER TEST FILE
=N((MI-IDDM\'JEC \$3F\$,F1 8T:VY\"RZ87OY\"165S(M VP294!T+FE5J(UOIO4JK9SEEA!T7
53+3.AVO4;;C/V\$L\$DD.89YE U .ZK6-HLZK-L ,\"N19,3=1K R,TV;L;F\"59 MR(80/=A!F
\$,?,\"
)N\"RRU/IP\$HZ\"YSCU(R4;)WRL5BW24ANTAXW\$IFP8LSN\$SZ(FA3X1,PQ3E-TDXYP89
E?!5I1\$FBF6\'2/E0W\"P?;L 57!(2RD3/OT?D?C=CD7T5\'J9 \"?X5VZ2 2II U=2CV)7\"/4G2
;01 H6.W=8\'K6(-HN?-PF?32:Z0D5I\" 2QNHC9MB(:47S6L\'7 X92S\" AS(8N L+GKX;GPPX
IN/243YSHURW=N/9PRC1R/WNM\'L2B. D,DN-K,FGW\":Z\'8T IY505I +,LDQTAF4 6 PF F
.S\'QHP/=/\$(VWBKLNY\'4TY: LO Y5T::-R;1Q=DO2 )YU,57 \" QMM;PL\'NXJ20FG4)F FS5
M,!8DQ41,D?G\"W98G=12HL))\"+,IKL1U\"WI,\$!9)=EZ.Z?HGWHZRP:\'4C))\"46QS\'/H:LLQW
HG\" !,=\$RE(O\"QCJXK=F3WW\'JK-9-9B\'-?VNF(NY REH2KTF
G?D!PX6\'I.?U,O6E\$.U5I0\'
\'-?S\$,ZU!K!\"M ES7;J5CK!J43MB\$-A18U 8;\"IQN:427)9D8F,3NQQQ8A3I3 V9!NKTP:KE
,AT5PPVD4.GT5Y/OW75M\"A E58,2C44:33K,\$-D7!9WNEJ04V6RWC G2G5ESNCBYHS=Q45F
.QOF\$))SK9=7J5RE1P8-N?-N.DIY3))1EH(0D7 ?TJG:D6HWDH =:W!?248=T6S+08\'\$8(4K
UXJN0/AYGCNUQO\'LHKS0W- E,O(\$HR:2DC.EE7(CH-YF5G/Q(EPR3D3)CCM6GU.9F2OM7YFL
104FLCYLO \"LP55T07.:W6/IU.QU?/W=TFUTPR:L1+L!J2/E)QG1UVF881N=,8V3+QJMZ(FR
E\":V-+\$-BV90RXK W6SA\"Y36D2-!3R3( 7E;\'?HC\$!\")NJ)K?U0 6=:9J,!,(JQ(?Y-Q2XZ)
\'6K22L2FKKL0E=J ?ZP9W LE5WR RV TN420X=/!7(G0IQM==+\$X8.8K+J\$S32\$X!PZV3Y3I
QTQQA7T4IY= 9NK6BYKT:.UQ\$P84\'R7\'\"VAU9 ( P?7HM1?Y5T)E:9WF!FF1(2GH,).ZB/+H
\$,/6ELJR0Z1AZG\$U A4(7\"(H!3Y+JF8C?6M\'N\'WQ=;FY- ?2167.A0H89W
\'DN/\'U20G:3K+
2C5C?.\'NRT+:C7PX7C5NWCGHTUH)\'75PM?:+I4A, Q(ZNC,)XL4+NR72LSI25L9Z3!\$5X0T/
8 FQ=D- S!3B\'?0!MNAABDUY2TKMT\"40S\$RPY( U4(\$AQ: FF?7\$UUPS=49SKC(UVZ9SW3IV
9?Z(NAQ\$.=?R/6 GZJ9\'(3\'NNIH6D7:= +F2UYTW5D)I9(UDQ8?E=C(8H\$I1Q3\'KU\$!X)!W
+U;6B4;+9E1W-\$\'11-ZP?I7IU5UJYP\$/\"\$NU:\'ALW9\$D,C6J0I 561F41SD0GC\"N5MSD\'
FP
9\'1832GS=LWWN GDD--65D\"!C;0EPSK)8H+=EOX7K3H -L12TEZ83D5W\$=R!9\$Q9,.0,93WC
C()(B??EGU\$/RIH/90H\'\"!29HIILF\'\$6S(\'ZCA)RE9T90F3VHQ
1I43Q6HZ8\"CJ+=AJ5-BY\$
WA2(W?:TI(FPCG9JTD5TFF/0!\'KJ\",I,\"4\$;55 G.N3HRGB0A\"83.CN\"84)JG3ABKQ77HU2
-OY?MJ7!9R=T518Y+RR4TGY/: I9MMT9KF.2C,MEVK R,D=\'WSALLC/7 U9WL-WPLKN:+ARW
):D!(:\'H:I?H\'1N(6-80V7;XB4\"KJD\'T)EI\$ :PIS203(?KUG(Z7/ J9OZ9Z--C1W:C=TY4
: \"+3AF\"JWB+,9UVA,7F)R6A\"Y\"I!,IC596G!O5! JAHP?0,X?K-LB\'KHV
E.\$P0:K5\'QVGB
CNA)\'/MSJOSWMU5U 3=I 27Z-E0YTOS5031+P99LIT0=86K-2V21JS61(G/!AE=46!OJDP0\"
+4V6CLKW\'
KL-S,Y?KHA8+6F+Y0\$!U=;=8VXH26!8K.\"\'K7!J\'(N=\"ZKCZH:N\'C:9BG7E0IH
C+L8VSK24 DJD:TNI6; N\$Q1C5C2 IP(!E=TJMF?3D9E1/M88,V7C/FSVEYTY+MZ Y=R88)W
ZZKKJJ 39ZIYEZH\") +?=YYGKF1D1X\$\$IWR;+6MYSO;\"!R) 9ZRR=\"KDYF1A4AU?4- \"GRAW
6;A-O.N.VW? .2??=MHY0;X1=H9WEHWD8;:C6 :JO/7?!.EZ4JL/ !FNXL;AJAWB; CWUWLF
O1N4 U;V(9M8\"O\$S6)FER=14I4I,HIEM5\'916:FN.Y?5\"=LC0EQN7I,?D;3(=2\'/=L8H(!I9
:2.ST 1.2A:,DE;745VU7UA-\$Z?F8PGE\'INKD7 G?PUQ79N610W:Y;E63X7)4-.V?T0))W7H
YBKRT/DL-S5WZ\'OH;HK21\'/Y7 ,8Z0
1UMD64-S;7WIZT=\"\'4/2\'\'XE7CQ.:2LUK)C\"=0XEN
\" :HZV(M\'/4ZQ16\$6WO1A-\'D5)VMA3E+? \$D0WF271)68 WE?GJ OSA8T=!R=7 -UQT7JU+G
FI-?.9DD44\'IH!=\$\$WKE)2:,!ID:DJ !+.(AW=O/V!RPR 85?D04\'6L\"UZE43O8O0T6 \'ERP
O:58B.7HYM?QTCO\"3U; 5+.0TWJA3ID\"T!,1)?H2S1VFBW/E 6 LCN,.GH:KI:99\$1RW(H0P
1)+H83 G8! H0 V).6\'QK7VFIE-/S)MA(+\'D7\" TTI.,-\'NO46Q32.NY19,KDFD!TLB-FIMA
6R7\$L Y\$H=:TN8\$4VD4L,8?QL \"=PF8UJQN=E8XM;AAOMXLYG9-CWEH (YOYS,KVK0WU=Z\'R
4/0FFBT 2FG!!!J 093RMNA=EX.:6:1AK08KY0(DJN:JV6:L=4:J5N:9)\"WW4Z,4:DCPSO\$W
V!G8\$9 INIB!.U/;? J00VEY0+)G\"0S5LK6!A3EMUPF,JQ\"LY\',34E?TK\$2G=M4 J/9=!AKT
\"S\"=23A6TT4VTK:1)CP.8NJ7.UHVDN5VW)EI/1CA \"NCJ
FIQ\"\$KXN!G73DO),!0JY\"\$OPH5
CW(S6=I7JNNOA DZX\" 2-3(0;TP5A1PEW(=J:PZKGQ6CK.WFJYZ1J OY69P?5I SL2T0N CZ
IKN,8X:+FG-R=CEY7(8 \$3;ER Q(D0. O3/Y8,Y,1M;X0W85!!.4\"!OT FC+X7WGV\$:K/L:
\"I;(ZA\'.Y\$)E9\"AZ),XJM)WTZ(I\'4;N6H\'NTW(AEEI+, C80B ,F(D8KH; H;Q0-Z1 2H6M=
LI(\'F P=XD?-NDZOO!9J !?0S=J?1L4+F+HBUX6S:9DOYC 38O(YZZ8LAP+10IL?\" :R YJ
AWLNZ/+ \"!BSK-4X1W:2UM!(9U?F\"97V.BT3YCNJDIG6I4 6)!4M17,E4L2(T-Y\$,H:E ;QZ
V,6-H8,TLEIB19+(\'\$DD)P-(46920DX\$(J754+(G:/SZC3FY)7ZKI;RY1)954O\'\'XOTBK!5F
\'P ?J1906IHVS\'0(.8(I\',S-Q9(A )0?J-E4LF0X!H9 23?KR\$DFYLHLB5(?)/U)T3\$I.)I;
KLY6?\')V65Z4ZDVOYF4X:G. 3))46!OEG(KZ8BP24L\'W\"(-Y)JJHAXG=DR!-)UZ8MKDQ=!\"6
WK?R/;IO42?LZ2U9 H0\'E.K88,0S,KTA?YRKMJH-C\$WJ?(0=4 /\"A(; \"H.\"H\"OPSR2=9ZRV
3XRG)HLEQ6IDX TJ7\$23EF4M=O QQ?- /N6J7:L13HPJ: CR6A--/F9J,4=3LQVC4W-H-2CL
; (5?VU:L,+6ELDO4TLKBU JTC=\$9\$C3CN\$6 P0\'4E35-: .LO
\$\'5.HD3N41\$;72)+KOU.3
7(A Y, TY .-VLM8Y3\'?I7FRR-H+I5818G4\"8KC.:29HQ\"Y8FR\'5!\"GTE)NAMEK(H4RPJE3E
BU: B\$MM:NL36VE)\'9AA?I\$+\$GDZUD=D3/Y6M 1P) ?5XFK\$(YO!8\'(9=E\'D.2R
?:F\'\"Y58
!C8,7TR5E-K-J9UK\" X -\"/PF9NL0DL,9C94OEWT 8\$C-A(05)0X=.5(CHDF
END OF TEST FILE
For a PCS 1900 AMR speech traffic channel using a Typical Urban channel
profile and a speed of the mobile station of 3.0 km/h [4, 5], the following
character error rates -- or lower values -- have to be achieved:
No Frequency Hopping, Full Rate (TCH/AFS):
* * *
C/I AMR mode (kbit/s)  
4.75 5.15 5.9 6.7 7.4 7.95 10.2 12.2 12 dB 0.5 % 0.5 % 0.5 % 0.5 % 0.1 % 0.1 %
0.1 % 0.1 % 10 dB 0.5 % 0.5 % 0.5 % 0.5 % 0.5 % 0.5 % 0.5 % 0.5 % 8 dB 0.5 %
0.5 % 0.5 % 0.5 % 0.5 % 0.5 % 0.5 % 1.0 % 6 dB 1.5 % 1.5 % 1.5 % 1.5 % 1.5 %
1.5 % -- --
* * *
Ideal Frequency Hopping, Full Rate (TCH/AFS):
* * *
C/I AMR mode (kbit/s)  
4.75 5.15 5.9 6.7 7.4 7.95 10.2 12.2 6 dB 0.5 % 0.5 % 0.5 % 0.5 % 0.2 % 0.2 %
0.2 % 0.2 % 4 dB 0.5 % 0.5 % 0.5 % 0.5 % 0.5 % 0.5 % -- --
* * *
No Frequency Hopping, Half Rate (TCH/AHS):
* * *
C/I AMR mode (kbit/s)  
4.75 5.15 5.9 6.7 7.4 7.95 12 dB 0.75 % 0.75 % 0.75 % 0.75 % 0.5 % 0.5 % 10 dB
1.5 % 1.5 % 1.5 % 1.5 % 1.5 % 1.5 %
* * *
Ideal Frequency Hopping, Half Rate (TCH/AHS):
* * *
C/I AMR mode (kbit/s)  
4.75 5.15 5.9 6.7 7.4 7.95 10 dB 0.5 % 0.5 % 0.5 % 0.5 % 0.2 % 0.2 %
* * *
For the PCS 1900 Full Rate speech traffic channel using a Typical Urban
channel profile and a speed of the mobile station of 3.0 km/h [4, 5], the
following character error rates -- or lower values -- have to be achieved:
No Frequency Hopping, Full Rate (TCH/FS):
* * *
C/I no frequency hopping ideal frequency hopping 14 dB 0.1 % 0.1 % 12 dB 0.5 %
0.2 % 10 dB 1.0 % 0.2 % 8 dB -- 0.5 %
* * *
## 7.3 Test of the text telephone demodulator\'s robustness against false
detections
In this test case, the Baudot Code text telephone demodulator used in the test
setup is tested against false detection of characters. In addition to this
test, also the applicable parts of [3] shall be used for testing the Baudot
Code demodulator\'s performance. If the purpose of the test is only to verify
a CTM implementation, this subclause can be ignored.
For this test, the test script test_false_detections is provided. It consists
of the following sub‑tests:
1\. Test of the response of the adaptation module for a signal that has one
valid start bit (1800 Hz) and three valid information bits (1400 Hz). The
duration of the fourth bit is too short so that this sequence must not trigger
the Baudot demodulator of the adaptation module. Therefore, the original audio
signal must be passed to the output without muting.
2\. Test of the response of the adaptation module for a signal that has one
valid start bit (1800 Hz) and five valid information bits (1400 Hz). The
duration of the stop bit is too short so that no characters should be decoded.
The output signal should be muted, because the start bit and the information
bits were correct, but no CTM signals shall be generated.
3\. Test of the response of the adaptation module for a signal that has one
valid start bit (1800 Hz), five valid information bits (1400 Hz) and one valid
stop bit. In this case the adaptation module shall decode the Baudot
characters (9 times the character \"Q\") and generate the appropriate CTM
tones.
4\. Test to decode the CTM signal that has been generated in subtest #3 (see
above). The CTM receiver shall decode the character \"Q\" nine times.
5\. Try to feed the output signal from subtest #3 (see above) into a second
Baudot detector. In this case the Baudot detector must not decode any
character.
6\. Test with a sine tone of 1400 Hz. In this case the signal adaptation
module must remain passive, i.e. the original audio signal must be passed to
the output without muting.
7\. Test with a sine tone of 1800 Hz. In this case the signal adaptation
module must remain passive, i.e. the original audio signal must be passed to
the output without muting.
The following output shall be produced by this test script:
=========================================================
Performing Test #1 --> no characters shall be decoded now
=========================================================
********************************************************************
Cellular Text Telephone Modem (CTM) - Example Implementation for
Conversion between CTM and Baudot Code (use option -h for help)
********************************************************************
_(No printable text generated)_
=========================================================
Performing Test #2 --> no characters shall be decoded now
=========================================================
********************************************************************
Cellular Text Telephone Modem (CTM) - Example Implementation for
Conversion between CTM and Baudot Code (use option -h for help)
********************************************************************
_(No printable text generated)_
============================================================
Performing Test #3 --> string QQQQQQQQQ shall be decoded now
============================================================
********************************************************************
Cellular Text Telephone Modem (CTM) - Example Implementation for
Conversion between CTM and Baudot Code (use option -h for help)
********************************************************************
QQQQQQQQQ
============================================================
Performing Test #4 --> string QQQQQQQQQ shall be decoded now
============================================================
********************************************************************
Cellular Text Telephone Modem (CTM) - Example Implementation for
Conversion between CTM and Baudot Code (use option -h for help)
********************************************************************
QQQQQQQQQ
=========================================================
Performing Test #5 --> no characters shall be decoded now
=========================================================
********************************************************************
Cellular Text Telephone Modem (CTM) - Example Implementation for
Conversion between CTM and Baudot Code (use option -h for help)
********************************************************************
_(No printable text generated)_
=========================================================
Performing Test #6 --> no characters shall be decoded now
=========================================================
********************************************************************
Cellular Text Telephone Modem (CTM) - Example Implementation for
Conversion between CTM and Baudot Code (use option -h for help)
********************************************************************
_(No printable text generated)_
=========================================================
Performing Test #7 --> no characters shall be decoded now
=========================================================
********************************************************************
Cellular Text Telephone Modem (CTM) - Example Implementation for
Conversion between CTM and Baudot Code (use option -h for help)
********************************************************************
_(No printable text generated)_
## 7.4 Typing Mode
This test is based on a text telephone modem signal that has been generated at
a typing speed that is extremely low in order to investigate the robustness of
the CTM decoder\'s synchronization.
In a first step, a software emulation of a text telephone terminal in Baudot
mode has been used for generating a Baudot signal at a low typing speed. In a
second step, the Baudot signal has been converted into a CTM signal by means
of the signal adaptation module defined in [2]. Due to the low typing speed,
the converted signal consists of a sequence of multiple CTM bursts. The pauses
between adjacent CTM bursts contain passages of the original Baudot signal,
which is a consequence of the capability of the signal adaptation module to
alternate between text and voice.
The CTM signal carries the following text message, where the symbol # denotes
a pause between two adjacent CTM bursts:
THE #CELLULAR #TEXT #TELEPHONE #MODEM #(#CTM)# #ALLOWS #RELIABLE
#TRANSMISSION #OF #A #TEXT #TELEPHONE #CONVERSATION #AL#TERNATING
#WITH #A #SPEECH #CONVERSATION #THROUGH #THE #EXISTING #SPEECH
#COMMUNICATION #PATHS #IN #CELLULAR #MOBILE #PHONE #S#YSTEMS.
#THIS #RELIABILITY #IS #ACHIEVED #BY #AN #IMPROVED #MODULATION
#TECHNIQUE#, #INCLUDING #ERROR #PROTECTION#, #INTERLEAVING #AND
#SYN#CHRONIZATION.
This CTM signal, which is provided in the file ctm_typingmode.pcm in the
attached zip archive ctm_testing.zip, has to be transmitted via a the PCS 1900
AMR speech traffic channel (Typical Urban profile; MS speed 3.0 km/h), as it
is described in subclause 7.2. After that, the received CTM signals shall be
decoded using the CTM receiver that is integrated in the executable
adaptation_switch (the source code of this executable is provided in [2]). The
syntax how to call adaptation_switch is also described in subclause 7.2.
For the full-rate channel without frequency hopping, at a C/I of 12 dB, the
starts and ends of all CTM bursts have to be detected properly. With ideal
frequency hopping, the starts and ends of all CTM bursts have to be detected
properly at a C/I of 6 dB for the full‑rate channel. For the half‑rate channel
with ideal frequency hopping, no more than one start of a CTM burst shall be
missed at a C/I of 10 dB
## 7.5 Test of the resynchonization
The CTM receiver has to be equipped resynchonization functionality, which
allows to resume the synchronism of the received bit stream after a cell
hand‑over. For this test, the PCM signal ctm_test_resync.pcm as well as the
script test_resynchonization is provided in the zip archive ctm_testing.zip.
The file ctm_test_resync.pcm provides a CTM signal, which has been modified by
deleting and inserting samples in order to simulate the loss of synchonization
after a cell hand‑over. The modifications are as follows:
* * *
Time instant (sample index) Event 30000 10 samples deleted 60000 50 samples
deleted 90000 130 samples deleted 120000 240 samples deleted 150000 10 samples
inserted 180000 50 samples inserted 210000 130 samples inserted 240000 240
samples inserted
* * *
The original text reads as follows:
THE CELLULAR TEXT TELEPHONE MODEM (CTM) ALLOWS RELIABLE
TRANSMISSION OF A TEXT TELEPHONE CONVERSATION ALTERNATING
WITH A SPEECH CONVERSATION THROUGH THE EXISTING SPEECH
COMMUNICATION PATHS IN CELLULAR MOBILE PHONE SYSTEMS.
THIS RELIABILITY IS ACHIEVED BY AN IMPROVED MODULATION
TECHNIQUE, INCLUDING ERROR PROTECTION, INTERLEAVING AND
SYNCHRONIZATION.
Any implementation of a CTM receiver has to recover the synchonism after each
of these events without loosing more than 10 characters. For the events at
sample index 30000 and 150000, no loss of characters shall occur, because the
period of 10 samples is much shorter than the CTM symbol length.
With the example implementation of the CTM receiver provided in [2], the
following text has been generated (the ### symbols indicate at which time
instants a resynchronization has become necessary):
THE CELLULAR TEXT TELEPHONE MODEM (CTM) ALLOWS RELIABLE
TRANSMISSION OF A T### TELEPHONE CONVERSATION ALTERNATINGM###3O0M A SPEECH
CONVERSATION THROUGH THE6###QING SPEECH
COMMUNICATION PATHS IN CELLULAR MOBILE PHONE SYSTEMS.
THIS FL###OFITY IS ACHIEVED BY AN IMPROVED M.###ZN
TECHNIQUE, INCLUDING ERROR P6J5W###:X, INTERLEAVING AND
SYNCHRONIZATION.
#