# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Audio is a key component of an immersive multimedia experience and 3GPP
systems are expected to deliver immersive audio with a high Quality of
Experience. However, industry agreed methods to assess the Quality of
Experience for immersive audio are relatively few and this Technical
Specification seeks to address this gap by providing subjective test methods
for the assessment of immersive audio.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies subjective test methodologies for 3GPP
immersive audio systems including channel-based, object-based, scene-based and
hybrids of these formats. The subjective evaluation methods described in the
present document are applicable to audio capture, coding, transmission and
rendering as indicated in their corresponding clauses.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ITU-R Recommendation BS.1534-3: \"Method for the subjective assessment of
intermediate quality level of audio systems\".
[3] ITU-R Recommendation BS.1116-3: \"Methods for the subjective assessment of
small impairments in audio systems\".
[4] ITU-R Recommendation BS.2051-2: \"Advance sound system for programme
production\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.118: \"3GPP Virtual reality profiles for streaming
applications\".
# 3 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 (VOID)
This clause is left \"Void\" intentionally, since specific clauses of the
present document have been used and referenced during the characterization
exercise related to the 3GPP Virtual Reality Audio profile; therefore, a
clause renumbering would misalign such specific references from other 3GPP
specifications.
# 5 Test Methodologies for Immersive Audio Systems of TS 26.118 (Codec Quality
Characterization Test)
## 5.1 Introduction
This clause specifies the Codec Quality Characterization Test for the audio
profiles in TS 26.118. The Codec Quality Characterization Test is based on the
test method defined in [2]. The Codec Quality Characterization Test assesses
the _Basic Audio Quality_ attribute at different bit-rates for a given audio
profile.
NOTE: The reference and hidden reference for the Codec Quality
Characterization Test are rendered to the loudspeakers with the reference
renderer of the audio profile under test. Because the reference renderer may
include degradations to the immersive audio quality, including a reduction on
the number of audio streams, care will be taken when evaluating the results.
## 5.2 Experimental Design
The experimental design of the Codec Quality Characterization Test is such
that all assessors rate all Anchor/Reference and Test Conditions. To control
for possible presentation order biases, the presentation order of the samples
is fully randomized during the experiment (double-blind test). To minimize
listener fatigue, the following constraints on the experimental design are
defined:
\- Each Test Material shall be no longer than 12 s in duration.
\- No more than four Codec Operating Points shall be tested for each test
material.
\- Each experiment shall contain no more than 10 Test Materials.
## 5.3 Selection of Assessors
The selection of assessors shall follow the guidelines in [2] clause 4.1. Only
_experienced assessors_ shall participate in the experiment and the test
administrator shall employ pre- and post-screening according to [2] clause
4.1. The final test results shall include assessments from at least 10
_experienced assessors_ that have passed both pre- and post-screening.
## 5.4 Test Materials
Critical audio materials representing typical virtual reality content shall be
used as Test Materials. Each test shall include at least 3 channel-based, 3
object-based and 3 scene-based Test Materials. In the event a Test Material is
a hybrid format, the primary category to which the Test Material belongs to
(distributed among channels, objects and scene-based) shall be indicated in
the Test Report.
All Test Materials shall be provided as either 24-bit integer or 32-bit PCM
float signals with a sampling rate of 48 kHz.
## 5.5 Content Presentation
The content presentation and grading process are according to [2] clauses 5.3
and 5.4.
## 5.6 Listening Environment
The listening environment should comply with [3] clauses 8.2 and 8.3.
## 5.7 Listening System
The listening system shall be loudspeaker-based. The loudspeaker layout is
layout J described in [4] Annex 1.
## 5.8 Listening Level
The listening level is according to [2] clause 8. The listening level is
adjusted with channel-based content.
## 5.9 Anchor/Reference Conditions
All Codec Quality Characterization Tests shall include one Hidden Reference
and two Anchors. The two Anchors are 3.5kHz and 7kHz low-pass filtered
versions of the Reference condition, as described in [2] clause 5.1.
The Reference and Hidden Reference conditions are the source test Materials
rendered to the loudspeaker setup through the Reference Renderer of the Audio
Profile under test with the coding bypassed.
## 5.10 Test Conditions
The Test Conditions shall be generated by encoding, decoding and rendering the
test Materials with the target operating points of:
\- 128 kbps (for First Order Ambisonics contents only)
\- 256 kbps
\- 384 kbps
\- 512 kbps
A +/- 10% variation from the target operating points is acceptable. The actual
bit-rate for each Test Condition shall be reported with an accompanying
justification for the target operating point deviation. The renderer used for
the Test Conditions shall be the same renderer used for the Anchor and
Reference Conditions.
## 5.11 Attributes
The Codec Quality Characterization Test shall assess the _Basic Audio Quality_
attribute described in [2] clause 6.4.
## 5.12 Test Report and Presentation of Results
The Test Report shall provide the Mean and 95 % Confidence Intervals
(t-distribution) for each test Condition, Hidden Reference and Anchors. All
results provided shall be post-screened results.
# 6 Test Methodologies for Immersive Audio Systems of TS 26.118 (Renderer
Comparison Test)
## 6.1 Introduction
This clause specifies the Renderer Comparison Test for the audio profiles in
TS 26.118. The Renderer Comparison Test is loosely inspired by the Comparison
Category Rating test paradigm described in [5] Annex E.
## 6.2 Experimental Design
In the Renderer Comparison Test, the assessors compare a Test Condition
against Anchor Conditions on four audio quality Attributes. The presentation
of the Test and Anchor Conditions is binaural using head-tracking. For each
trial, the Test Condition is compared to one of the Anchor Conditions as an A
v. B comparison. To control for possible presentation order biases, the Test
Conditions shall be presented to the assessors as sample A in exactly half of
the trials. The test shall be conducted with 12 Test Materials and two Anchors
for a total of 24 trials (comparisons).
The test shall be divided in two sessions. the first session compares the Test
Condition against the first Anchor and the second session compares the Test
Condition against the second Anchor.
## 6.3 Selection of Assessors
The selection of assessors shall follow the guidelines in [2] clause 4.1. Only
_experienced assessors_ shall participate in the experiment and the test
administrator shall employ pre- screening according to [2] clause 4.1. The
final test results shall include assessments from at least 12 _experienced
assessors_ that have passed pre-screening.
NOTE 1: Post-screening methods for this test are for further study. In the
event post-screening is performed, the test report will describe the method
adopted.
NOTE 2: Post-screening methods for this test are ffs.
## 6.4 Test Materials
The Rendering Comparison Test shall use critical audio materials representing
typical virtual reality content, with a duration longer than 6 s and no longer
than 12 s. The Rendering Comparison Test shall include 4 channel-based, 4
object-based and 4 scene-based Test Materials. In the event a test Material is
a hybrid format, the primary category to which the test material belongs to
(distributed among channels, objects and scene-based) shall be indicated in
the test report.
## 6.5 Content Presentation
The Test Administration Platform shall employ a Graphical User Interface (GUI)
to present the Test and Reference Conditions to the assessors as A/B samples
within trials. The following are constraints on the GUI design:
1) The GUI shall have an \"A\" and \"B\" switch buttons which allow the
assessor to seamlessly switch the audio presentation between the A and B
samples for comparison.
2) The GUI shall have a \"Play\" button which enables Time-Synchronized
Playback of the A and B samples. Within a trial, one of the samples is a bit-
stream for the Test Condition and the other sample is one of the Anchor
Conditions.
3) The GUI shall have a \"Stop\" button which enables stopping the Time-
Synchronized Playback of the A and B samples.
4) The GUI shall present four Audio Quality Attributes for assessment: Timbre
(TIM), Spatial (SPA), Artefacts (ART) and Basic Audio Quality (BAQ). In
addition, the GUI shall present the possibility of comparing the Loudness
(LOUD) of the A and B samples through an additional loudness scale.
5) The GUI shall have a \"Loop\" button which enables looping the Time-
Synchronized playback of the A and B samples.
6) The GUI shall have a \"Next\" button which enables the assessor to proceed
to the next trial in the experiment. For each trial, the GUI shall enable the
\"Next\" button only after assessment of TIM, SPA and BAQ have been completed.
Because all source Test Materials are normalized for Listening Level according
to Clause 6.8 and the highest operating point.
In addition, the Test Administration Platform shall support a real-time
implementation of the Audio Profile Renderer under test as well as a real-time
implementation of the Anchor Conditions (see clause 6.9) with support for
head-tracking.
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="5.377083333333333in"}
Figure 1: Example of possible GUI for Rendering Comparison Test
## 6.6 Listening Environment
For each octave-band, the maximum sound pressure level of the listening
environment shall not exceed the levels in Table 1 (corresponding to an NR20
noise rating curve):
Table 1: Maximum Sound Pressure Level for Listening Environment
* * *
Octave Band centre frequency 31.5 Hz 62.5 Hz 125 Hz 250 Hz 500 Hz 1 kHz 2 kHz
4 kHz 8 kHz Maximum Sound Pressure Level (dBSPL) 69 51 39 31 24 20 17 14 13
* * *
## 6.7 Listening System
The listening system shall be headphone-based with head-tracking. Both the
Test Conditions and Anchor/Reference Conditions shall be binauralized using a
common HRTF set. The binauralization shall use either individualized HRTFs or
HRTFs based on a head and torso simulator (HATS). The choice of HRTF set shall
be indicated in the test report. The headphones shall be equalized. If
individualized HRTFs are used, the headphones shall have individualized
equalization. If HATS HRTFs are used, the headphones shall be equalized for
the same make/model of HATS.
## 6.8 Listening Level
The listening level is according to [2] clause 8. The listening level is
adjusted with channel-based content.
## 6.9 Anchor/Reference Conditions
All Renderer Comparison Tests shall include two Anchor/Reference Conditions.
The two Anchors correspond to two configurations of a Common Informative
Binaural Rendering (CIBR) scheme (1^st^ and 3^rd^ order). The CIBR:
1) Receives as an input a virtual loudspeaker representation, obtained using a
Documented Loudspeaker Renderer, with speaker locations positioned according
to an Equivalent Spatial Domain representation (ESD). The definition of
Equivalent Spatial Domain can be found in TS 26.260 clause 4.1.1.
2) Converts the ESD representation to a 1^st^ order or 3^rd^ order B-format
representation.
3) Performs rotation of the sound field, according to a motion sensor signal
4) Binauralizes the audio signal for presentation.
NOTE: The Documented Loudspeaker Renderer is Vector Based Amplitude Panning
(VBAP) (Pulkki).
A block diagram of the rendering systems for Anchor Conditions is illustrated
in Figure 2.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="2.6527777777777777in"}
Figure 2: Block Diagram for Anchor Conditions
## 6.10 Test Conditions
The Rendering Comparison Test shall assess only one Test Condition per
experiment. This Test Condition is such that the Audio Profile shall be
configured for an Operating Point providing transparent quality for all Test
Materials. In addition, the Audio Profile shall be configured to operate with
its Reference Renderer. For all Test Materials, the Test Condition shall be
assessed against the two Anchor Conditions.
## 6.11 Attributes
The Rendering Comparison Test shall assess the four Audio Quality Attributes:
_Timbre_ (TIM), _Spatial_ (SPA), _Artefacts_ (ART) and _Basic Audio Quality_
(BAQ). In addition, the Rendering Comparison Test compares any residual
_Loudness_ (LOUD) difference between A and B samples through an additional
loudness scale.
## 6.12 Test Report and Presentation of Results
The Test Report shall provide the Mean and 95 % Confidence Intervals
(t-distribution) for the Test Condition against each of the Anchor Conditions.
All results provided shall be post-screened results.
# 7 Test Methodologies for Immersive Audio Systems of TS 26.118 (Codec Quality
Characterization Test with Binaural Rendering)
## 7.1 Introduction
This clause specifies the optional, but strongly recommended, codec quality
characterization test for the audio profiles in TS 26.118 with binaural
rendering over headphones. The Codec Quality Characterization test with
Binaural Rendering is based on the test method defined in [2].
## 7.2 Experimental Design
The experimental design of the Codec Quality Characterization Test with
Binaural Rendering is such that all assessors rate all test Conditions. To
control for possible presentation order biases, the presentation order of the
test materials is fully randomized during the experiment (double-blind test).
To minimize listener fatigue, the following constraints on the experimental
design are defined:
\- Each Test Material shall be no longer than 12 s in duration.
\- No more than four Codec Operating Points shall be tested for each Test
Material.
\- Each experiment shall contain no more than 10 Test Materials.
## 7.3 Selection of Assessors
The selection of assessors shall follow the guidelines in [2] clause 4.1. Only
_experienced assessors_ shall participate in the experiment and the test
administrator shall employ pre- and post-screening according to [2] clause
4.1. The final test results shall include assessments from at least 10
_experienced assessors_ that have passed both pre- and post-screening.
## 7.4 Test Materials
Critical audio materials representing typical virtual reality content shall be
used for this test. Each test should include at least 3 channel-based, 3
object-based and 3 scene-based Test Materials and no more than 10 Test
Materials in total.
All Test Materials shall be provided as either 24-bit integer or 32-bit PCM
float signals with a sampling rate of 48 kHz.
## 7.5 Content Presentation
The content presentation and grading process are according to [2] clauses 5.3
and 5.4.
## 7.6 Listening Environment
For each octave-band, the maximum sound pressure level of the listening
environment shall not exceed the levels in Table 2 (corresponding to an NR20
noise rating curve):
Table 2: Maximum Sound Pressure Level for Listening Environment
* * *
Octave Band centre frequency 31.5 Hz 62.5 Hz 125 Hz 250 Hz 500 Hz 1 kHz 2 kHz
4 kHz 8 kHz Maximum Sound Pressure Level (dBSPL) 69 51 39 31 24 20 17 14 13
* * *
## 7.7 Listening System
The listening system shall be headphone-based using the Common Informative
Binaural Renderer (CIBR) for both the Reference and Degraded conditions. The
CIBR is described in [5].
The binauralization shall use either individualized HRTFs or HRTFs based on a
head and torso simulator (HATS). The choice of HRTF set shall be indicated in
the test report. The headphones shall be equalized. If individualized HRTFs
are used, the headphones shall have individualized equalization. If HATS HRTFs
are used, the headphones shall be equalized for the same make/model of HATS.
## 7.8 Listening Level
The listening level is according to [2] clause 8. The listening level is
adjusted with channel-based content.
## 7.9 Anchor/Reference Conditions
All Codec Quality Characterization Tests shall include one Hidden Reference
and two Anchors. The two Anchors are 3.5kHz and 7kHz low-pass filtered
versions of the Reference condition, as described in [2] clause 5.1.
The Reference and Hidden Reference conditions are the source test Materials
binaurally rendered to headphones through the Common Informative Binaural
Renderer (CIBR) described in [5].
## 7.10 Test Conditions
The Test Conditions are generated by encoding, decoding and rendering the test
Materials with the target operating points of:
\- 128 kbps (for First Order Ambisonics contents only)
\- 256 kbps
\- 384 kbps
\- 512 kbps
A +/- 10 % variation from the target operating points is acceptable. The
actual bit-rate for each Test Condition shall be reported with an accompanying
justification for the target operating point deviation. The renderer used for
the Test Conditions shall be the same renderer used for the Anchor and
Reference Conditions.
## 7.11 Attributes
The Codec Quality Characterization Test with Binaural Rendering shall assess
the _Basic Audio Quality_ attribute described in [2] clause 6.4.
## 7.12 Test Report and Presentation of Results
The test report shall provide the Mean and 95% Confidence Intervals
(t-distribution) for each test Condition, Hidden Reference and Anchors. All
results provided shall be post-screened results (see clause 7.3).
#