# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies an HTML5 profile as a common presentation layer
for 3GPP services.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] W3C Recommendation 28 October 2014, HTML5: \"A vocabulary and associated
APIs for HTML and XHTML\", http://www.w3.org/TR/html5/[.]{.underline}
[2] 3GPP TS 26.234: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS); Protocols and codecs\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS); Protocols
and codecs\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.247: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS); Progressive Download and Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP (3GP-
DASH)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.140: \"Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS); Media formats and
codecs\".
[6] 3GPP TR 21.905: \" Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[7] W3C Recommendation 03 February 2015: \"Server-Sent Events\",
http://www.w3.org/TR/eventsource/[.]{.underline}
[8] W3C Candidate Recommendation 20 September 2012: \"The WebSocket API\",
http://www.w3.org/TR/websockets/[.]{.underline}
_[9] W3C Recommendation 07 June 2011: \"Cascading Style Sheets Level 2
Revision 1 (CSS 2.1)\"._
_[10] W3C Working Draft, 26 November 2013: \"CSS Transforms Module Level 1\"._
_[11] W3C Working Draft, 19 November 2013: \"CSS Transitions\"._
_[12] W3C Recommendation, 07 June 2011: \"CSS Color Module Level 3\"._
_[13] Standard ECMA-262, 5.1 Edition / June 2011: \"ECMAScript Language
Specification\"._
_[14] W3C Candidate Recommendation, 7 July 2015: \"CSS Basic User Interface
Module Level 3 (CSS3 UI)\"._
_[15] W3C Candidate Recommendation, 17 April 2012: \"CSS Image Values and
Replaced Content Module Level 3\"._
_[16] W3C Candidate Recommendation, 9 September 2014: \"CSS Backgrounds and
Borders Module Level 3\"._
_[17] W3C Recommendation, 19 June 2012: \"Media Queries\"._
_[18] W3C Working draft, 19 February 2013: \"CSS Animations\"._
_[19] W3C Last Call Working draft, 14 May 2015: \"CSS Flexible Box Layout
Module\"._
_[20] W3C Editor\'s Draft 20 March 2015: \"ISO BMFF Byte Stream Format\"._
_[21] W3c Recommendation 24 October 2013: \"Geolocation API Specification\"._
[22] W3C Candidate Recommendation 21 August 2014: \"HTML Canvas 2D Context\",
http://www.w3.org/TR/2dcontext/.
[23] W3C Working Draft 30 January 2014: \"XMLHttpRequest Level 1\",
http://www.w3.org/TR/XMLHttpRequest/[.]{.underline}
[24] W3C Candidate Recommendation 31 March 2015: \"Media Source Extensions\",
http://www.w3.org/TR/media-source/.
[25] ISO BMFF Byte Stream Format, http://www.w3.org/2013/12/byte-stream-
format-registry/isobmff-byte-stream-format.html
[26] W3C Working Draft 27 October 2015: \"Encrypted Media Extensions\",
http://www.w3.org/TR/encrypted-media/
[27] W3C Candidate Recommendation, _11 December 2014: \"Web Cryptography
API\", http://www.w3.org/TR/WebCryptoAPI/._
_[28] IETF RFC 6455: \"The WebSocket Protocol\", December 2011._
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [6] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [6].
**Application:** an interactive service authored using the set of languages
defined by the present document.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [6] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [6].
API Application Programming Interface
CSS Cascading Style Sheet
DASH Dynamic and Adaptive Streaming over HTTP
EME Encrypted Media Extensions
HTML5 Hyper-Text Mark-up Language 5
ISO BMFF ISO Base Media File Format
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service
MMS Multimedia Messaging Service
MPD Media Presentation Description
MSE Media Source Extensions
PSS Packet-switched Streaming Service
SSE Server-Sent Events
XML EXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Required Mark-up Support
## 4.1 Introduction
The present document defines a 3GPP HTML5 profile for use in 3GPP services,
such as PSS [2], MBMS [3] and MMS [5]. In this clause, the set of required
mark-up and APIs for the 3GPP HTML5 profile is defined.
The present document defines requirements and recommendations for Applications
and UEs conforming to the 3GPP HTML5 Profile.
## 4.2 Markup
The HTML5 [1] specification defines conformance requirements for user-agents
and documents:
\- Applications shall comply with conformance requirements for documents in
[1].
\- UEs shall comply with conformance requirements for user agents as defined
in [1].
## 4.3 Style
### 4.3.1 Introduction
Support for CSS as a whole is not required by HTML5, even though some features
are defined in terms of specific CSS requirements. This clause defines
requirements for CSS and other style and/or graphic related technologies.
### 4.3.2 Basic Graphic
\- UEs shall support CSS 2.1 [9].
\- UEs shall support CSS Color Module Level 3 [12].
\- UEs shall support CSS Image Values and Replaced Content Module Level 3
[15].
\- UEs shall support CSS Backgrounds and Borders [16].
\- UEs should support CSS Basic User Interface [14].
### 4.3.3 Device Adaptation, Layout and Processing
\- UEs should support CSS Media Queries [17].
\- UEs should support CSS Flexible Box Layout [19].
### 4.3.4 Advanced Graphic
\- UEs shall support the CSS Transforms [10].
\- UEs shall support CSS Transitions [11].
\- UEs shall support CSS Animations [18].
## 4.4 Scripting
Scripts are small programs that can be embedded into applications. While
defining features that rely on scripting, HTML5 does not mandate support for
scripting for all user-agents. Furthermore, scripting is defined using a
syntax that in most cases is independent from the underlying scripting
language. For such reasons, the present document has additional requirements
as defined in this clause.
\- UEs shall support scripting as defined in [1].
\- UEs shall support ECMA scripting language [13].
# 5 API Support
A number of specifications from W3C or other organizations define APIs that
provide additional functionalities to applications. This clause lists the
specifications that SHALL and SHOULD be supported by a UE.
\- UEs shall support the Forms API [1].
\- UEs shall support the Canvas API [22].
\- UEs shall support the XMLHttpRequest API [23].
\- UEs shall support the Media Source Extensions [24].
\- UEs shall support the ISO BMFF Byte Stream Format [25] with the MIME type
and subtypes audio/mp4 and video/mp4.
\- UEs should support the GeoLocation API [21].
\- UEs should support the Encrypted Media Extensions [26].
\- UEs should support the Web Socket API [8] with the protocol defined in RFC
6455 [28].
\- UEs should support the Server-Sent Events API [7].
\- UEs should support the WebCrypto API [27].
# 6 Service-Specific Aspects
## 6.1 Introduction
Additional requirements and usage restrictions are necessary depending on the
service type that uses the 3GPP HTML5 profile. In this clause, these aspects
are addressed.
## 6.2 DASH
When an HTML5 presentation uses DASH [4] for media streaming, then the HTML5
presentation may reference one or more DASH presentations through a reference
to the MPD either as a source of an HTML5 media element or as a reference from
one of the referenced resources.
The user agent should support DASH MPD as a supported MIME type for its source
elements and attributes, in which case the DASH playback is done by the user
agent.
#