# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document gives an overview for the requirements of the background
acoustic noise evaluation, noise parameter encoding/decoding and comfort noise
generation for the Enhanced Voice Services (EVS) speech codec during
Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) operation.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.445: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Codec Detailed
Algorithmic Description\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.442: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); EVS Codec ANSI
C code (fixed-point)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.443: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); EVS Codec ANSI
C code (floating-point)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.452: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); ANSI C code;
Alternative fixed-point using updated basic operators\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CNG Comfort Noise Generation
EVS Enhanced Voice Services
FD-CNG Frequency Domain based CNG
LP-CNG Linear Prediction based CNG
SID Silence Insertion Descriptor
# 4 General
The present document gives an overview for the requirements of the background
acoustic noise evaluation, noise parameter encoding/decoding and comfort noise
generation for the Enhanced Voice Services (EVS) speech codec during
Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) operation.
The procedure of the present document is mandatory for implementation in all
network entities and UEs supporting the EVS codec.
In the case of discrepancy between the EVS comfort noise aspects described in
the present document and its ANSI-C code specification contained in [3], the
procedure defined by [3] prevails. In the case of discrepancy between the
procedure described in the present document and its ANSI-C code specification
contained in [4], the procedure defined by [4] prevails. In the case of
discrepancy between the procedure described in the present document and its
ANSI-C code specification contained in [5], the procedure defined by [5]
prevails.
A basic problem when using DTX is that the background acoustic noise, which is
transmitted together with the speech, would disappear when the transmission is
cut, resulting in discontinuities of the background noise. Since the DTX
switching can take place rapidly, it has been found that this effect can be
very annoying for the listener - especially in a car environment with high
background noise levels. In bad cases, the speech may be hardly intelligible.
The present document specifies the way to overcome this problem by generating
on the receive (RX) side synthetic noise similar to the transmit (TX) side
background noise. The comfort noise parameters are estimated on the TX side
and transmitted to the RX side at a regular rate when speech is not present.
This allows the comfort noise to adapt to the changes of the noise on the TX
side.
The Enhanced Voice Services (EVS) speech codec supports two Comfort Noise
Generation (CNG) schemes, a linear prediction based CNG (LP-CNG) as well as a
frequency domain based scheme (FD-CNG). The selection of the one of the two
schemes is performed within the transmit side functions on an input signal
bases. The parameters for generating the comfort noise are packed as a Silence
Insertion Descriptor (SID) payload.
By default in the command line the transmission rate of CNG update is fixed to
8 frames. However, the update rate of the SID payload can be configured by a
command line parameter to a fixed number or to a mode where the update rate is
adaptively modified according to the background noise. The fixed rate mode is
limited to updates between 1 and 100 frames while in the adaptive rate mode
the updates are limited to 8 and 50 depending on the noise behaviour.
As the functions of the CNG processing are highly integrated into the speech
codec and make use of other coding parameters, The present document only
provides an overview of the functions. The relevant references to the
algorithmic descriptions are provided in the following.
# 5 Functions on the transmit (TX) side
## 5.1 EVS primary CNG operation
The CNG operation on the transmit side is described in figure 1. In DTX
operation, the SID updater decides if any SID update is required. If the SID
payload should be updated, the CNG Selector enables either the LP or the FD
CNG encoder depending on the signal characteristic of the background noise.
The selected CNG encoder calculates the noise generation parameter and creates
the related SID payload.
{width="5.947916666666667in" height="2.0770833333333334in"}
Figure 1: Transmit side Comfort Noise Generator functions
In [2], all TX functions are described in clause 5.6. The algorithmic
description of the
\- SID Update mechanism can be found in sub-clause 5.6.1.1 and 5.6.1.2
\- CNG Selector can be found in sub-clause 5.6.1.3
\- LP-CNG encoder in sub-clause 5.6.2
\- FD-CNG encoder in sub-clause 5.6.3.
## 5.2 EVS AMR-WB IO CNG operation
The update rate is basically fixed to an update every 8^th^ frame. However,
when switching into DTX mode, the first and the third frame after active
speech are coded by a SID frame.
The CNG in the EVS AMR-WB interoperable modes is based the LP-CNG coding
scheme only. The complete CNG TX description of the EVS AMR-WB IO mode can be
found in [2], clause 5.7.12.
# 6 Functions on the receive (RX) side
## 6.1 EVS primary CNG operation
The CNG operation on the receiver side is depicted in Figure 2. The first bit
of the SID payload determines the CNG module. The remaining bits contain the
information of the noise generator parameters to render the signal.
{width="3.9305555555555554in" height="2.0555555555555554in"}
Figure 2: Receive side Comfort Noise Generator functions
The RX CNG operation is described in clause 6.7. The synthesis of the LP-CNG
is described in sub-clause 6.7.2 and the synthesis of FD-CNG is described in
clause 6.7.3 in [2].
## 6.2 EVS AMR-WB IO CNG operation
The CNG in the EVS AMR-WB interoperable modes use only the LP-CNG decoding
scheme for rendering the AMR-WB compatible CN parameters. The complete CNG RX
description of the EVS AMR-WB IO mode can be found in [2], clause 6.8.4.
# 7 Computational details and bit allocation
A computational description of comfort noise encoding and generation in form
of an ANSI-C source code is given in [3] and [5] for the two fixed-point
implementations, using different sets of basic operators, and in [4] for the
floating-point implementation.
For the EVS primary modes, the SID payload consists of 48 bits. The first bit
of the payload determines the CNG scheme, where 0 stands for the LP-CNG and 1
for the FD-CNG.
For the EVS AMR-WB IO modes, the SID payload consists of 35 bits.
#