# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the Jitter Buffer Management solution for the
Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
Release as the present document.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.445: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Detailed
Algorithmic Description\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia telephony;
Media handling and interaction\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.071: \"Mandatory speech CODEC speech processing functions; AMR
speech Codec; General description\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.171: \"Speech codec speech processing functions; Adaptive
Multi-Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec; General description\".
[6] 3GPP TS 26.442: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); ANSI C code
(fixed-point)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.443: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); ANSI C code
(floating-point)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 26.131: \"Terminal acoustic characteristics for telephony;
Requirements\".
[9] IETF RFC 4867 (2007): \"RTP Payload Format and File Storage Format for the
Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) and Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband (AMR-WB) Audio
Codecs\", J. Sjoberg, M. Westerlund, A. Lakaniemi and Q. Xie.
[10] 3GPP TS 26.452: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); ANSI C code;
Alternative fixed-point using updated basic operators\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
{width="0.3729166666666667in" height="0.26666666666666666in"} Time signal and
time index n in context x, e.g. x can be inp, out, HP, pre, etc.
{width="0.19236111111111112in" height="0.26666666666666666in"} Frame length /
size of module x
{width="0.22013888888888888in" height="0.26666666666666666in"} Energy values
in context of x
{width="0.22013888888888888in" height="0.26666666666666666in"} Correlation
function in context x
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AMR Adaptive Multi Rate (codec)
AMR-WB Adaptive Multi Rate Wideband (codec)
CNG Comfort Noise Generator
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
EVS Enhanced Voice Services
FB Fullband
FIFO First In, First Out
IP Internet Protocol
JBM Jitter Buffer Management
MTSI Multimedia Telephony Service for IMS
NB Narrowband
PCM Pulse Code Modulation
PLC Packet Loss Concealment
RTP Real Time Transport Protocol
SID Silence Insertion Descriptor
SOLA Synchronized overlap-add
SWB Super Wideband
TSM Time Scale Modification
VAD Voice Activity Detection
WB Wideband
## 3.4 Mathematical Expressions
For the purposes of the present document, the following conventions apply to
mathematical expressions:
{width="0.225in" height="0.21041666666666667in"} indicates the smallest
integer greater than or equal to _x_ : {width="0.5111111111111111in"
height="0.21041666666666667in"}, {width="0.5291666666666667in"
height="0.21041666666666667in"} and {width="0.68125in"
height="0.21041666666666667in"}
{width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"} indicates the
largest integer less than or equal to _x_ : {width="0.4861111111111111in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}, {width="0.5in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} and {width="0.69375in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}
min(_x_ ~0~,..._x_ ~N--1~) indicates the minimum of _x_ ~0~,..., _x_ ~N--1~, N
being the number of components
max(_x_ ~0~,..._x_ ~N--1~) indicates the maximum of _x_ ~0~, ..., _x_ ~N--1~
{width="0.3333333333333333in" height="0.29305555555555557in"} indicates
summation
# 4 General
## 4.1 Introduction
The present document defines the Jitter Buffer Management solution for the
Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS) [2]. Jitter Buffers are required in
packet-based communications, such as 3GPP MTSI [2], to smooth the inter-
arrival jitter of incoming media packets for uninterrupted playout.
The solution is used in conjunction with the EVS decoder and can also be used
for AMR [4] and AMR-WB [5]. It is optimized for the Multimedia Telephony
Service for IMS (MTSI) and fulfils the requirements for delay and jitter-
induced concealment operations set in [2].
The procedure of the present document is recommended for implementation in all
network entities and UEs supporting the EVS codec.
The present document does not describe the ANSI C code of this procedure. For
a description of the two fixed-point ANSI C code implementations, using
different sets of basic operators, see [6] and [10] respectively; for a
description of the floating-point ANSI C code implementation see [7].
In the case of discrepancy between the EVS Jitter Buffer Management described
in the present document and its ANSI-C code specification contained in [6],
the procedure defined by [6] prevails. In the case of discrepancy between the
procedure described in the present document and its ANSI-C code specification
contained in [7], the procedure defined by [7] prevails. In the case of
discrepancy between the procedure described in the present document and its
ANSI-C code specifications contained in [10] the procedure defined by [10]
prevails.
## 4.2 Packet-based communications
In packet-based communications, packets arrive at the terminal with random
jitters in their arrival time. Packets may also arrive out of order. Since the
decoder expects to be fed a speech packet every 20 milliseconds to output
speech samples in periodic blocks, a de-jitter buffer is required to absorb
the jitter in the packet arrival time. The larger the size of the de-jitter
buffer, the better its ability to absorb the jitter in the arrival time and
consequently fewer late arriving packets are discarded. Voice communications
is also a delay critical system and therefore it becomes essential to keep the
end to end delay as low as possible so that a two way conversation can be
sustained.
The defined adaptive Jitter Buffer Management (JBM) solution reflects the
above mentioned trade-offs. While attempting to minimize packet losses, the
JBM algorithm in the receiver also keeps track of the delay in packet delivery
as a result of the buffering. The JBM solution suitably adjusts the depth of
the de-jitter buffer in order to achieve the trade-off between delay and late
losses.
## 4.3 EVS Receiver architecture overview
An EVS receiver for MTSI-based communication is built on top of the EVS Jitter
Buffer Management solution. In the EVS Jitter Buffer Management solution the
received EVS frames, contained in RTP packets, are depacketized and fed to the
Jitter Buffer Management (JBM). The JBM smoothes the inter-arrival jitter of
incoming packets for uninterrupted playout of the decoded EVS frames at the
Acoustic Frontend of the terminal.
{width="5.329861111111111in" height="1.9993055555555554in"}
Figure 1: Receiver architecture for the EVS Jitter Buffer Management Solution
Figure 1 illustrates the architecture and data flow of the receiver side of an
EVS terminal. Note that the architecture serves only as an example to outline
the integration of the JBM in a terminal. This specification defines the JBM
module and its interfaces to the RTP Depacker, the EVS Decoder [2], and the
Acoustic Frontend [8]. The modules for Modem and Acoustic Frontend are outside
the scope of the present document. The actual implementation of the RTP
Depacker is outlined in a basic form; more complex depacketization scenarios
depend on the usage of RTP.
Real-time implementations of this architecture typically use independent
processing threads for reacting on arriving RTP packets from the modem and for
requesting PCM data for the Acoustic Frontend. Arriving packets are typically
handled by listening for packets received on the network socket related to the
RTP session. Incoming packets are pushed into the RTP Depacker module which
extracts the frames contained in an RTP packet. These frame are then pushed
into the JBM where the statistics are updated and the frames are stored for
later decoding and playout. The Acoustic Frontend contains the audio interface
which, concurrently to the push operation of EVS frames, pulls PCM buffers
from the JBM. The JBM is therefore required to provide PCM buffers, which are
normally generated by decoding EVS frames by the EVS decoder or by other means
to allow uninterrupted playout. Although the JBM is described for a multi-
threaded architecture it does not specify thread-safe data structures due to
the dependency on a particular implementation.
Note that the JBM does not directly forward frames from the RTP Depacker to
the EVS decoder but instead uses frame-based adaptation to smooth the network
jitter. In addition signal-based adaptation is executed on the decoded PCM
buffers before they are pulled by the Acoustic Frontend. The corresponding
algorithms are described in the following clauses.
# 5 Jitter Buffer Management
## 5.1 Overview
Jitter Buffer Management (JBM) includes the jitter estimation, control and
jitter buffer adaptation algorithm to manage the inter-arrival jitter of the
incoming packet stream. The entire solution for EVS consists of the following
components:
\- RTP Depacker (clause 5.2) to analyse the incoming RTP packet stream and to
extract the EVS speech frames along with meta data to estimate the network
jitter
\- De-jitter Buffer (clause 5.6) to store the extracted EVS speech frames
before decoding and to perform frame-based adaptation
\- EVS decoder [1] for decoding the received EVS speech frames to PCM data
\- Time-Scale Modification (clause 5.4.3) to perform signal-based adaptation
for changing the playout delay
\- Receiver Output Buffer (clause 5.5) to provide PCM data with a fixed frame
size to the Acoustic Frontend
\- Playout Delay Estimation Module (clause 5.3.5) to provide information on
the current playout delay due to JBM
\- Network Jitter Analysis (clause 5.3) for estimating the packet inter-
arrival jitter and target playout delay
\- Adaptation Control Logic (clause 5.4) to decide on actions for changing the
playout delay based on the target playout delay
{width="6.013888888888889in" height="2.660416666666667in"}
Figure 2: Modules of the EVS Jitter Buffer Management Solution
## 5.2 Depacketization of RTP packets (informative)
The RTP Depacker module of the JBM performs the depacketization of the
incoming RTP packet stream. During this operation the EVS frames, embedded in
RTP packets according to the respective RTP payload format [2], [9], are
extracted and pushed to the de-jitter buffer. The RTP timestamp in an RTP
packet for EVS always refers to the first EVS frame in the RTP payload. Any
further EVS frames in the RTP payload are indexed in the RTP Payload Format
Header by a Table of Contents (ToC) [2], [9]. The RTP Depacker performs the
unpacking and calculates and assigns a media timestamp to every speech frame
present in each received RTP packet.
The Jitter Buffer Management (JBM) for the EVS codec depends on information
that is part of the received RTP packet stream. Each RTP packet consists of an
RTP header and the RTP payload. The following data fields of the RTP header
are of relevance for the JBM:
\- RTP timestamp
\- RTP sequence number
The marker bit in the RTP header is not evaluated by this JBM solution. Other
fields in the RTP header are needed to correctly assign the incoming RTP
packets to an RTP session, which is outside the scope of this specification.
All extracted frames (without NO_DATA frames) are fed to the JBM. The data
structure for one frame consists of:
\- Frame payload data, including the size of the payload
\- Arrival timestamp of the RTP packet containing the frame
\- Media timestamp in RTP timescale units, derived from the RTP timestamp of
the packet
\- Media duration in RTP timescale units (20 ms for EVS frames)
\- RTP timescale as specified in the specification of the RTP payload format
\- RTP sequence number
\- SID flag
\- Partial copy flag
To optimize the JBM behaviour for DTX, the JBM needs to be aware of SID
frames. Determining this information depends on the implementation of the
underlying audio codec. To keep the JBM independent of the audio codec, the
SID flag needs to be fed to the JBM. In case of the EVS, AMR and AMR-WB codecs
the SID flag can be determined from the size of the frame payload data.
Audio encoders supporting DTX typically output NO_DATA frames between SID
frames to signal that a frame was not encoded because it does not contain an
active signal and should be substituted with comfort noise by the audio
decoder. Instead of NO_DATA frames this JBM solution uses the RTP timestamp
for media time calculation. Therefore the RTP Depacker should not feed NO_DATA
frames into the JBM.
The JBM handles packet reordering and duplication on the network and so the
RTP Depacker can feed those frames into the JBM exactly as received, therefore
a typical RTP Depacker implementation might be state-less.
## 5.3 Network Jitter Analysis and Delay Estimation
### 5.3.1 General
Estimates of the network jitter are required to control the JBM playout delay.
The Jitter Buffer Management for EVS combines a short-term and a long-term
jitter estimate to set the target playout delay. The playout is smoothly
adapted to continuously minimize the difference between playout delay and
target playout delay.
The transmission delay of a packet on the network can be seen as the sum of a
fixed component (consisting of unavoidable factors such as propagation times
through physical materials and minimum processing times) and a varying
component (dominated by network jitter e.g. due to scheduling). As JBM does
not expect synchronized clocks between the sender and receiver, the fixed
delay value cannot be estimated using only the information available from the
received RTP packets. Therefore JBM ignores the fixed delay component. To
estimate the varying delay component, the two basic values delay
{width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.20625in"} and offset
{width="0.15347222222222223in" height="0.20625in"} are calculated using the
arrival timestamp {width="0.12569444444444444in" height="0.20625in"} and the
media timestamp {width="0.12569444444444444in" height="0.20625in"}. This is
done for every received frame, where {width="0.1in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} relates to the current frame (most recently
received), and {width="0.26666666666666666in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
relates to the previously received frame. Note that for the first received
frame of a session no delay value will be calculated
({width="0.17916666666666667in" height="0.20625in"} is set to 0).
{width="1.8402777777777777in" height="0.20625in"} (1)
Delay calculations are done in millisecond units. A sliding window stores the
offset {width="0.15347222222222223in" height="0.20625in"} and delay values
{width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.20625in"}for received frames.
{width="0.6in" height="0.20625in"} (2)
The difference of the stored maximum and minimum delay values is used as an
estimate for the varying delay component (network jitter). Both the target
playout delay and the playout delay calculations are based on the minimum
stored offset, i.e. the offset calculated for the frame received with the
lowest transmission delay relative to all frames currently contained in the
sliding window. The details on how this approach is used are described in the
following sections.
### 5.3.2 Long-term Jitter
To calculate the long term jitter {width="0.15347222222222223in"
height="0.20625in"}, an array of network statistics entries (FIFO queue) is
used. For each frame received in an RTP packet on the network an entry will be
added to the array. An entry contains three values: delay
{width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.20625in"}, offset
{width="0.15347222222222223in" height="0.20625in"} and RTP timestamp
{width="0.12569444444444444in" height="0.20625in"}. The time span stored in
the FIFO might be different to the number of stored entries if DTX is used,
for that reason the window size of the FIFO is limited in two ways. It may
contain at most 500 entries (equal to 10 seconds at 50 packets per second) and
at most a time span (RTP timestamp difference between newest and oldest frame)
of 10 seconds. If more entries need to be stored, the oldest entry is removed.
Note that in the following operations the arrays are assumed to contain only
valid entries, i.e. non-arriving packets are left out from the operations when
e.g. calculating minimum or maximum values.
The long term jitter {width="0.15347222222222223in" height="0.20625in"}for the
i-th received frame is calculated as the difference between the maximum delay
value currently stored in the array and the minimum delay value:
{width="2.4458333333333333in" height="0.22013888888888888in"} (3)
### 5.3.3 Short-term jitter
The short term jitter estimation is done in two steps.
In the first step, the same jitter calculation is used as for long term
estimation with the following modifications: The window size of a first array
(\"Fifo1\") is limited to a maximum of 50 entries and a maximum time span of
one second. The resulting temporary jitter value
{width="0.15347222222222223in" height="0.20625in"}is calculated as the
difference between the 94 % percentile delay value
{width="0.3194444444444444in" height="0.2326388888888889in"}currently stored
in the first array and the minimum delay value of the first array:
{width="1.6527777777777777in" height="0.24583333333333332in"} (4)
In the second step, first the different offsets between the short term and
long term FIFOs are compensated for this result to generate another temporary
jitter value {width="0.12569444444444444in" height="0.20625in"}, i.e. by
adding the difference of the minimum offset value stored in Fifo1 and the
minimum offset value stored in longTermFifo to {width="0.15347222222222223in"
height="0.20625in"}:
{width="2.5340277777777778in" height="0.22013888888888888in"} (5)
This result is added to a second array (\"Fifo2\") containing the temporary
jitter values {width="0.12569444444444444in" height="0.20625in"} with a
maximum window size of 200 entries and a maximum time span of four seconds.
Finally, the maximum jitter value of the Fifo2 is rounded up to an integer
multiple of the frame size and used as the short term jitter
{width="0.19236111111111112in" height="0.20625in"}:
{width="2.1666666666666665in" height="0.22013888888888888in"} (6)
### 5.3.4 Target Playout Delay
The target playout delay is different for active frames, inactive periods and
for the first frame after inactivity.
To calculate the target playout delay for active frames, the long term and
short term jitter estimations are combined to set a lower threshold (minimum
target playout delay) $u_{i}$ and upper threshold (maximum target playout
delay) $v_{i}$. The target playout delay calculation is configured with (extra
redundant frame delay) $g = 0$ and (delay reserve) $h = \text{15}$. These
variables are modified in case of partial redundancy as described in subclause
6.3.
$v_{i} = m_{i} + \text{60}\text{ms} + g$ (7)
$u_{i} = \text{min}(j_{i} + \text{20}\text{ms} + g + h,v_{i})$ (8)
For active frames the signal-based adaptation is executed if the playout delay
exceeds either threshold.
In case of DTX the frame-based adaptation is executed by inserting or removing
NO_DATA frames to increase or reduce the playout delay to follow the DTX
target playout delay $w_{i}$, which is set to the minimum of the long-term and
short-term jitter:
$w_{i} = \text{min}(j_{i} + h,m_{i})$ (9)
For the first active frame after DTX, frame-based adaptation is executed by
inserting NO_DATA frames to increase the playout delay to match the target
playout delay for the first active frame $z_{i}$, which is set to the average
of the minimum and maximum threshold for active frames.
$z_{i} = (u_{i} + v_{i} + \frac{h}{4}\frac{)}{2}$ (10)
### 5.3.5 Playout Delay Estimation
The playout delay is calculated whenever the decoder is executed, regardless
of whether it was executed to decode a received frame, conceal a missing frame
or generate comfort noise during DTX. The previous playout delay
{width="0.3194444444444444in" height="0.20625in"} specifies the buffering
delay between the previous playout time {width="0.30694444444444446in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} when a frame was played and the time that
frame could have been received were its transmission delay equal to the lowest
of all frames currently contained in the long-term FIFO.
{width="2.0875in" height="0.2in"} (11)
The variable {width="0.17916666666666667in" height="0.2125in"} describes the
duration of the samples buffered in the Receiver Output Buffer module at
playout time $k$ and {width="1.0263888888888888in" height="0.20625in"} is the
minimum offset value stored in the long-term FIFO, irrespective of which frame
is currently played out. The previous playout
offset{width="0.29305555555555557in" height="0.22013888888888888in"} is
recalculated whenever a received frame is popped from the De-jitter Buffer
module using the current system time {width="0.2798611111111111in"
height="0.2125in"}and the RTP timestamp of the frame that was popped.
{width="1.0527777777777778in" height="0.2in"} (12)
Since {width="0.29305555555555557in" height="0.22013888888888888in"} uses the
RTP timestamp, it cannot be calculated for concealed frames or comfort noise
and thus for these cases it needs to be estimated.
{width="0.17916666666666667in" height="0.22013888888888888in"} is assumed to
be identical to the previous value {width="0.29305555555555557in"
height="0.22013888888888888in"}. In addition, {width="0.17916666666666667in"
height="0.22013888888888888in"} shall be updated whenever frame-based
adaptation occurs. The duration of the inserted frame is added and the
duration of the deleted frame is subtracted from
{width="0.17916666666666667in" height="0.22013888888888888in"}, respectively.
## 5.4 Adaptation Control Logic
### 5.4.1 Control Logic
{width="6.513194444444444in" height="4.120138888888889in"}
Figure 3: Control Logic of the EVS Jitter Buffer Management Solution
The Control Logic module compares the playout delay with the target playout
delay as outlined in Figure 3. If the difference exceeds a threshold, it
triggers adaptation to modify the playout delay and therefore also the depth
of the De-Jitter Buffer. Different types of adaptation are supported and
selected in a signal-adaptive manner. During comfort noise (SID-flag is
active), frame-based adaptation will be triggered and executed by the De-
Jitter Buffer module. During active periods, signal-based adaptation is
triggered and executed by the Time Scale Modification module.
An initialization phase is used at startup. The JBM solution outputs audio
samples before receiving and decoding the first frame which is received with
some network delay. During this initialization phase the audio decoder is not
used yet and PCM buffers are returned filled with zero samples.
### 5.4.2 Frame-based adaptation
#### 5.4.2.1 General
Adaptation on the frame level is performed on coded speech frames, i.e. with a
granularity of one speech frame of 20 ms duration. Inserting or deleting
speech frames results in adaptation with higher distortion but allows faster
buffer adaptation than signal-based adaptation. Inserting or deleting NO_DATA
frames during DTX allows fast adaption while minimizing distortion.
#### 5.4.2.2 Insertion of Concealed Frames
If the de-jitter buffer runs empty because the next frame has not yet been
received during a delay spike, a missing frame is signalled to the EVS decoder
in order to create samples for playout. The PLC module integrated in the
decoder is used to extrapolate artificial samples. Subsequently arriving
speech frames are then again fed to the EVS decoder, including the late
arriving frame that was initially replaced by PLC.
#### 5.4.2.3 Frame Dropping
The De-Jitter Buffer has a fixed capacity to avoid excessive delay and memory
usage. For some corner cases like major delay bursts on the network, the De-
Jitter Buffer might still overflow. In that case the oldest frame (lowest
timestamp) will be dropped by removing it from the De-Jitter Buffer until one
slot is free to store the newest received frame.
In addition, frames can also be dropped if they are received out-of-order as a
result of packet reordering on the network. In most cases the De-Jitter Buffer
will undo the reordering before frames are pushed into the audio decoder. If a
reordered frame was received too late to be decoded in order because the frame
with the following timestamp was already fed into the audio decoder, it is
considered to be no longer of any use to the decoder and the De-Jitter Buffer
will drop such a frame instead of storing it.
The insertion of concealed frames as described in subclause 5.4.2.2 increases
the playout delay. To avoid excessive build-up of delay, the first frame to be
decoded after the insertion of concealed frames will be dropped if the playout
delay after playing this late frame would be higher than the target playout
delay.
#### 5.4.2.4 Comfort Noise Insertion in DTX
During DTX the playout delay is increased by pushing an additional NO_DATA
frame into the decoder to insert an additional frame containing comfort noise.
The first active frame after DTX is decoded after additional comfort noise
frames are decoded for frame-based adaptation. Adaptation by insertion of
NO_DATA frames between two SID frames or between an SID frame and the first
active frame results in negligible distortion of the signal.
#### 5.4.2.5 Comfort Noise Deletion in DTX
Similar to comfort noise insertion in DTX, comfort noise frames can also be
deleted by omitting the decoding of NO_DATA frames. Comfort noise is deleted
to control the playout delay between SID frames and before the first active
frame after DTX.
### 5.4.3 Signal-based adaptation
#### 5.4.3.1 General
To alter the playout delay the output signal of the decoder is time-warped.
The time-warping is performed by the Time Scale Modification module, which
generates additional samples for increasing the playout delay or which removes
samples from the output signal to reduce the playout delay.
{width="5.104166666666667in" height="2.0458333333333334in"}
Figure 4: Signal-based adaptation based on signal characteristics
A SOLA (synchronized overlap-add) algorithm with built-in quality control is
used for adaptation by performing time-scale modification of the signal
without altering the pitch. The level of adaptation is signal-dependent, as
also outlined in Figure 4:
\- signals that are classified by the quality-control as \"introducing severe
distortions when scaled\" are never scaled;
\- low-level signals, which are close to silent, are time-scaled without
synchronization to the maximum possible extent;
\- signals that are classified as \"time-scalable\", e.g. periodic signals,
are scaled by a synchronized overlap-add of a shifted representation of the
input signal with the input signal to the Time Scale Modification module. The
shift itself is derived from a similarity measure. The shift differs depending
on whether the signal is to be shortened or lengthened.
The time-scale modification algorithm shifts a portion of samples to a
position that yields synchronization. The original signal is cross-faded with
the shifted portion using overlap-add, followed by the remaining samples that
follow the shifted portion. The level of time-scaling is signal-dependent.
To yield synchronization the shifted portion and the original frame are cross-
correlated using a complexity-reduced normalized cross correlation function.
The original frame size as fixed by the EVS decoder is 20ms, i.e. 640 samples
for SWB. The size of the template is 10ms, i.e. 320 samples for SWB. The
general parameters of the time-scale modification are listed in Table 1.
Table 1: Time-scale Modification Parameters
* * *
                                                                                                                    8 kHz   16 kHz   32 kHz   48 kHz
{width="0.14027777777777778in" height="0.15347222222222223in"} frame size
[samples] 160 320 640 960 {width="0.29305555555555557in"
height="0.2326388888888889in"} segment size [samples] 80 160 320 480
{width="0.30694444444444446in" height="0.20625in"} minimum pitch 20 40 80 120
{width="0.38680555555555557in" height="0.20625in"} search length 100 200 400
600 {width="0.3333333333333333in" height="0.20625in"} maximum pitch 120 240
480 720
* * *
#### 5.4.3.2 Time-shrinking
Time-shrinking reduces the size $L$of a frame to $L_{\text{out}}$.
$L_{\text{out}}$ will differ to $L$ by 2,5-10 ms, i.e. the resulting frame
duration will be in the range 10-17,5 ms. The amount of time-scaling depends
on the position$p_{\text{sync}}$of the best matching candidate segment that
yields highest similarity to the first segment $a$ of the input signal. The
start position $s_{\text{start}}$ and end position $s_{\text{end}}$ used to
search for the candidate segment inside the input frame $x$ for time-shrinking
are listed in Table 2.
Table 2: Time-shrinking Parameters
* * *
                                                                                                                8 kHz   16 kHz   32 kHz   48 kHz
{width="0.3194444444444444in" height="0.20625in"} start search position
[samples] 20 40 80 120 {width="0.2798611111111111in" height="0.20625in"} end
search position [samples] 80 160 320 480
* * *
The output frame {width="0.14027777777777778in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} is the result of a cross-fade of the first
segment {width="0.12569444444444444in" height="0.14027777777777778in"} of the
input frame and the best matching candidate segment, which is shifted by
{width="0.5597222222222222in" height="0.2326388888888889in"}. Samples
following the candidate segment are appended to the merged signal to yield
continuity with following frames.
{width="2.3333333333333335in" height="3.3131944444444446in"}
Figure 5: Shortening of an input frame
Note that the time-shrinking algorithm does not need any look-ahead samples
and is therefore not introducing extra delay, however an extra buffer is used
to generate output frames {width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.20625in"}
with a fixed frame length from the variable length output frames
{width="0.14027777777777778in" height="0.16666666666666666in"} (clause 5.5).
#### 5.4.3.3 Time-stretching
Time-stretching increases the size{width="0.14027777777777778in"
height="0.15347222222222223in"}of an input frame
{width="0.12569444444444444in" height="0.14027777777777778in"}to
{width="0.2798611111111111in" height="0.20625in"} for the output frame
{width="0.14027777777777778in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"}.{width="0.2798611111111111in"
height="0.20625in"} will differ to {width="0.14027777777777778in"
height="0.15347222222222223in"} by 2,5-15 ms, i.e. the resulting frame
duration will be in the range 22,5-35 ms. The amount of time-scaling depends
on the position{width="0.34652777777777777in" height="0.2326388888888889in"}of
the best matching candidate segment that yields highest similarity to the
first segment {width="0.12569444444444444in" height="0.14027777777777778in"}
of the input signal. The start position {width="0.3194444444444444in"
height="0.20625in"} and end position {width="0.2798611111111111in"
height="0.20625in"} used to search for the candidate segment inside the input
frame {width="0.12569444444444444in" height="0.14027777777777778in"} for time-
stretching are listed in Table 3.
The preceding input frame is taken to search for positions with similarity to
the first segment of the current input frame.
Table 3: Time-stretching Parameters
* * *
                                                                                                                8 kHz   16 kHz   32 kHz   48 kHz
{width="0.3194444444444444in" height="0.20625in"} start search position
[samples] -120 -240 -480 -720 {width="0.2798611111111111in"
height="0.20625in"} end search position [samples] -20 -40 -80 -120
* * *
The output frame {width="0.14027777777777778in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} is the result of a cross-fade of the first
segment {width="0.12569444444444444in" height="0.14027777777777778in"} of the
input frame and the best matching candidate segment, which is shifted by
{width="0.5597222222222222in" height="0.2326388888888889in"}. Note that
{width="0.34652777777777777in" height="0.2326388888888889in"} is bounded by
{width="0.3194444444444444in" height="0.20625in"} and
{width="0.2798611111111111in" height="0.20625in"} and is therefore a negative
number. Samples following the candidate segment are appended to the merged
signal to yield continuity with following frames.
{width="5.329166666666667in" height="3.3645833333333335in"}
Figure 6: Lengthening of an input frame
Note that the time-stretching algorithm does not need any look-ahead samples
but requires the previous frame to be available. Therefore no extra delay is
introduced, however an extra buffer is used to generate output frames
{width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.20625in"} with a fixed frame length
from the variable length output frames {width="0.14027777777777778in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} (clause 5.5).
#### 5.4.3.4 Energy Estimation
Low-level signals are detected by analysing 1ms subsegments
{width="0.12569444444444444in" height="0.16666666666666666in"} of the input
signal {width="0.12569444444444444in" height="0.14027777777777778in"},
including the previous frame. If all subsegment energies {width="0.20625in"
height="0.20625in"} of the subsegments to be merged are below a threshold
{width="0.3333333333333333in" height="0.20625in"} , with
{width="0.8590277777777777in" height="0.20625in"}, then the frame is scaled to
the maximum extent:
\- a 20 ms frame is shortened to 10ms by setting {width="0.4861111111111111in"
height="0.20625in"} for time-shrinking according to Table 2
\- a 20 ms frame is extended to 35ms by setting {width="0.5256944444444445in"
height="0.20625in"} for time-stretching according to Table 3
The generation of the output frame {width="0.14027777777777778in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} is performed by a cross-fade of the first
segment {width="0.12569444444444444in" height="0.14027777777777778in"} of the
input frame and the by {width="0.11319444444444444in"
height="0.14027777777777778in"}shifted segment, followed by the remaining
samples. Note that for low-level signals the output frame is generated without
similarity estimation or quality estimation.
#### 5.4.3.5 Similarity Measurement
To estimate similarity a non-normalized cross-correlation of the template
segment with other positions of the template in the signal is maximized. In
order to limit the computational complexity, a {width="0.2534722222222222in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"}subsampled signal is used to estimate the
correlation value, i.e. only every {width="0.12569444444444444in"
height="0.14027777777777778in"}^th^ sample is used. The subsampling parameters
are set as listed in Table 4.
Table 4: Similarity Measurement complexity Parameters
* * *
                                                                                                                   8 kHz   1 6kHz   32 kHz   48 kHz
{width="0.12569444444444444in" height="0.14027777777777778in"} signal
subsampling 1 2 4 6 {width="0.15347222222222223in"
height="0.14027777777777778in"} correlation subsampling 1 1 2 3
* * *
$C_{\sigma} = \sum_{}^{}{x(n \ast o)x(n \ast o + \sigma)}$ (13)
A hierarchical search for the best match is performed that initially skips
every _m_ -th offset, i.e. the search for the maximum correlation is performed
on a subsampled set of correlation values, with {width="0.15347222222222223in"
height="0.14027777777777778in"} as listed in Table 4. The offset with highest
correlation is then used as starting point for a hierarchical search where
{width="0.7743055555555556in" height="0.20833333333333334in"} and
{width="1.2722222222222221in" height="0.20833333333333334in"} after each step.
{width="0.3194444444444444in" height="0.20625in"} is set to
{width="1.5416666666666667in" height="0.2326388888888889in"} for narrowing the
search range. This hierarchical search is performed until
{width="0.3451388888888889in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}.
#### 5.4.3.6 Quality Control
After similarity estimation a quality measure {width="0.12569444444444444in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} is calculated. To calculate
{width="0.12569444444444444in" height="0.16666666666666666in"} the normalized
cross-correlation in (14) is used.
{width="2.2868055555555555in" height="0.7194444444444444in"} (14)
{width="0.22013888888888888in" height="0.22013888888888888in"} is evaluated
with up to four different values of {width="0.12569444444444444in"
height="0.13333333333333333in"}, with {width="0.12569444444444444in"
height="0.13333333333333333in"} set to {width="0.34652777777777777in"
height="0.2326388888888889in"}, {width="0.41944444444444445in"
height="0.2326388888888889in"}, {width="0.45902777777777776in"
height="0.3590277777777778in"}, and {width="0.45902777777777776in"
height="0.3590277777777778in"}. {width="0.11319444444444444in"
height="0.17916666666666667in"} is then the sum of the products of the
correlations in (15)
{width="2.8194444444444446in" height="0.2326388888888889in"} (15)
In the event that one of the calculations needs to access samples that are not
available in the current or the previous frame, the values are replaced with
{width="0.50625in" height="0.2326388888888889in"} using the following scheme:
{width="1.2458333333333333in" height="0.2326388888888889in"} (16)
{width="1.3597222222222223in" height="0.2326388888888889in"} (17)
{width="1.3597222222222223in" height="0.2326388888888889in"} (18)
The quality {width="0.11319444444444444in" height="0.17916666666666667in"} is
then used in the main scaling operations 5.4.3.2 and 5.4.3.3 to decide whether
the scaling operation is performed or whether the scaling is deferred to a
subsequent frame.
Positive values indicate periodicity, whereas negative values indicate that
the scaling could produce a perceptually distorted signal. The threshold for
frame scaling is {width="0.44027777777777777in"
height="0.18611111111111112in"} initially, however the threshold is
dynamically adapted depending on the number of successive scaled or non-scaled
frames. For each scaled frame the threshold is increased by 0,2 to avoid too
many subsequent scaling operations. For each non-scaled frame the threshold is
lowered by 0,1 to enable time-scaling also for less periodic signals.
For multi-channel operation the channel with the highest sum of energies is
used for determining the quality of the scaling operation for all channels.
Therefore the denominator from Formula (14) is summed up to determine the
channel of highest sum of energies during quality estimation.
#### 5.4.3.7 Overlap-add
Finally, if the time-scaling is performed, the output signal
{width="0.29305555555555557in" height="0.20625in"} is constructed by an
overlap-add of the first segment of the input signal
{width="0.2798611111111111in" height="0.20625in"} with the shifted input
signal {width="0.4736111111111111in" height="0.20625in"}. Note that
{width="0.11319444444444444in" height="0.14027777777777778in"} is negative for
expansion of the signal.
{width="2.0256944444444445in" height="0.20625in"},
{width="0.7402777777777778in" height="0.2326388888888889in"} (19)
The overlap-add is performed using a cos-shaped Hann window. Note that the
second half of the window is not used.
{width="1.5138888888888888in" height="0.4201388888888889in"} (20)
The remaining samples of the shifted signal up to the most recent sample are
then appended. The total length of the output signal is {width="0.70625in"
height="0.20625in"}.
{width="0.8590277777777777in" height="0.20625in"},
{width="1.1666666666666667in" height="0.2326388888888889in"} (21)
## 5.5 Receiver Output Buffer
{width="6.43125in" height="2.2006944444444443in"}
Figure 7: Receiver Output Buffer
A FIFO queue for PCM data called the Receiver Output Buffer is present in the
EVS JBM solution. Since the Time Scale Modification module does not generate
speech frames of length 20 ms if signal-based adaptation has occurred, this
buffer ensures that the Acoustic Frontend is provided with PCM data with a
fixed size of 20 ms. As outlined in Figure 7, the Receiver Output Buffer uses
a ringbuffer data structure where the variable sized output of the Time Scale
Modification module is enqueued and a 20ms buffer is dequeued for the Acoustic
Frontend.
A FIFO queue for PCM data called the Receiver Output Buffer is present in the
EVS JBM solution. As outlined in Figure 7 it provides PCM data with a fixed
size of 20 ms for the Acoustic Frontend, although the Time Scale Modification
module does not generate speech frames of length 20 ms if signal-based
adaptation has occurred. The Receiver Output Buffer uses a ringbuffer data
structure where the variable sized output of the Time Scale Modification
module is enqueued and a 20 ms buffer is dequeued for the Acoustic Frontend.
## 5.6 De-Jitter Buffer
RTP packets are transmitted on the network with a time-varying delay (network
jitter) and might be reordered, lost or duplicated. The De-Jitter Buffer
stores the frames contained in RTP packets received from the network and
prepares them to be fed into the audio decoder in the correct order.
The De-Jitter Buffer uses a ringbuffer data structure with a fixed capacity.
To avoid excessive delay and memory usage in extreme cases like major delay
bursts on the network, the ringbuffer memory is allocated at initialization
with a capacity to store up to three seconds of active audio data, i.e. 150
entries for a frame duration of 20 ms. In case of an overflow of the De-Jitter
Buffer the oldest frames (lowest timestamp) will be dropped from the
ringbuffer.
The ringbuffer is sorted by the media timestamp in ascending order. To forward
a frame from the De-Jitter Buffer to the audio decoder, the frame stored at
the beginning of the ringbuffer is dequeued, i.e. the frame with the lowest
timestamp. To enqueue a frame the De-Jitter Buffer uses a binary search
algorithm to compare the timestamps, in order to insert the new frame at the
correct position in the ringbuffer and undo any potential reordering that
occurred on the network. To handle packet duplication on the network, a newly
received frame will be ignored if another frame with equal timestamp and size
is already stored in the ringbuffer. If a newly received frame has the same
timestamp but different size than an existing frame, the frame with the
greater buffer size will be stored in the ringbuffer and the other frame will
be ignored, or dropped if already stored. This allows for the sending of
redundant frames (either identical copies of a frame or frames where the same
signal is encoded with a lower bitrate mode) as forward error correction to
combat high packet loss on the network.
The De-Jitter Buffer does not explicitly handle missing frames, e.g. frames
which are lost on the network or are not yet received, and thus does not store
NO_DATA frames. Instead, the Adaptation Control Logic module is responsible to
decide if a frame should be dequeued from the De-Jitter Buffer. The Adaptation
Control Logic module will preview the first frame stored in the De-Jitter
Buffer and compare its timestamp with the expected timestamp for playout
before dequeuing the frame. The depth of the De-Jitter Buffer is therefore
dynamic and controlled by the Adaptation Control Logic module.
# 6 Decoder interaction
## 6.1 General
This JBM solution has been optimized for the EVS codec but is also intended to
be used with the existing AMR and AMR-WB codecs. Partial redundancy is only
supported by the RTP Depacker for EVS frames, the interaction is defined
below.
## 6.2 Decoder Requirements
The defined JBM depends on the decoder processing function to create an
uncompressed PCM frame from a coded frame. The JBM requires that the number of
channels and sampling rate in use is known in order to initialize the signal-
based adaptation. The JBM also requires the presence of PLC functionality to
create a PCM frame on demand without a coded frame being available as input
for the decoder for missing or lost frames.
The JBM will make use of DTX for playout adaptation during inactive periods
when noise is generated by the CNG. It has however its own functionality
integrated for playout adaptation of active signals if the codec does not
currently use or support DTX, as well as for adaptation during a long period
of active signal. To use DTX the RTP Depacker needs to determine if a frame is
an SID frame or an active frame and provide that information to the JBM
together with the respective frame. During DTX the JBM may alter the periods
between SID frames or between the last SID frame and the first active frame to
use the CNG of the decoder to create additional PCM buffers with comfort noise
or to omit comfort noise frames.
The JBM expects that the decoder outputs PCM frames with 20ms duration and a
fixed audio sampling rate set at initialization. If the codec supports
bandwidth switching, a resampling functionality is required in the decoder to
provide PCM frames at the set sampling rate.
## 6.3 Partial Redundancy
The EVS channel aware mode [2] uses partial redundant frames that include just
a subset of parameters that are most critical for decoding or arresting error
propagation.
In this mode redundancy is transmitted in-band as part of the codec payload as
opposed to transmitting redundancy at the transport layer (e.g. by including
multiple packets in a single RTP payload). Including the redundancy in-band
allows the transmission of redundancy to be either channel controlled (e.g. to
combat network congestion) or source controlled. In the latter case, the
encoder can use properties of the input source signal to determine which
frames are most critical for high quality reconstruction at the decoder and
selectively transmit redundancy for those frames only. Another advantage of
in-band redundancy is that source control can be used to determine which input
frames can best be coded at a reduced frame rate in order to accommodate the
attachment of redundancy without altering the total packet size. In this way,
the channel aware mode includes redundancy in a constant-bit-rate channel
(13,2 kbps).
The JBM inspects incoming frames at 13,2 kbps to parse the flag if the frame
contains a partial copy and the FEC offset of the copy. The frame is stored in
the De-Jitter Buffer with the partial copy flag set to false to signal that
the primary copy in the frame payload data should be decoded. If the frame
contains a partial copy, then in addition a copy of the frame is stored in the
De-Jitter Buffer with modified metadata:
\- the partial copy flag is set to true to signal to the EVS decoder to use
the partial copy stored in the frame payload data;
\- the media timestamp is set to the media timestamp of the primary copy frame
minus the frame duration multiplied by the FEC offset of the partial copy;
\- the SID flag is set to false.
The De-Jitter Buffer stores only one frame per media timestamp. If a newly
received primary copy frame is to be stored and a partial copy frame with same
media timestamp is already available, the partial copy frame will be replaced
by the primary copy frame. When a frame is dequeued from the De-Jitter Buffer
for decoding, the EVS decoder uses the partial copy flag to decide between
decoding the primary copy or using the partial copy to improve PLC for the
unavailable primary copy.
Partial copies are typically received with higher delay than primary copies
because they are delayed by the FEC offset and packed and sent together with
the later primary copy. Both primary and partial copies are used for frame-
based adaptation. If the De-Jitter Buffer runs empty, concealed frames are
inserted for decoding. Both primary and partial copies that arrive after the
corresponding frames were already concealed, will be stored in the De-Jitter
Buffer and used for playout of the next frame. This method that increases the
playout delay is also described in subclause 5.4.2.2. Also the frame dropping
method described in subclause 5.4.3.2 is still applied for primary copies. In
addition, to avoid excessive build-up of delay by late partial copies, they
will be dropped instead of stored in the De-Jitter Buffer if the playout delay
after playing the late partial copy would increase by more than 40ms (offset
5) or 80ms (offset 7). For offset 2 and 3 partial copies received for frames,
which were already concealed, are always dropped. Instead of frame-based time-
stretching, the JBM uses a modified jitter estimation to consider the delay of
partial copies with low offsets in the target playout delay calculation. If a
partial copy with offset 2 or 3 is useful (primary copy lost and partial copy
received in time), it is considered in the long-term jitter estimation
(subclause 5.3.2) by adding an entry with the network statistics of the
partial copy to the array. In addition to those changes, also the target
playout delay calculation (subclause 5.3.4) is modified to use $h = 0$.The
following settings for partial redundancy with high offsets apply: $g =
\text{100}$ if offset 5 is active and $g = \text{140}$ for offset 7\. For
offset 2 and 3 the target playout delay is calculated with the default value
$g = 0$.
As described in subclause 5.8.3 of [2], the optimal partial redundancy offset
and frame erasure rate indicator are two receiver feedback parameters which
may be used to inform the channel aware mode encoder of the channel
characteristics at the receiver. The following section describes the mechanism
to compute these parameters at the receiver. It is noted that in the absence
of such a feedback mechanism, the channel aware mode encoder will operate
using the default setting as specified in subclause 5.8.3 of [2].
## 6.3.1 Computation of the Partial Redundancy Offset
The difference in time units between the transmit time of the primary copy of
a frame {width="0.2534722222222222in" height="0.22013888888888888in"} and the
transmit time of the redundant copy of that frame which is piggy backed onto a
future frame {width="0.4736111111111111in" height="0.19236111111111112in"}) is
called the FEC offset {width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.15347222222222223in"}. The optimal FEC offset is the value which
maximizes the probability of availability of a partial redundancy copy when
there is a frame loss. This however depends on the delay jitter and the loss
statistics of the channel which is available at the JBM. Hence, the JBM
periodically computes the optimal FEC offset. To enable channel condition
based FEC offset adaptation at the encoder, the FEC offset computed at the
receiver is communicated to the EVS encoder via a receiver feedback mechanism.
This closed loop FEC offset control strategy will ensure the optimal use of
redundant information and consequently improve the end user experience. The
following section explains how the optimal FEC offset is periodically computed
at the receiver JBM.
Let {width="0.6798611111111111in" height="0.20625in"}be the probability mass
function of successful recovery of partial frame for the FEC
offset{width="0.14027777777777778in" height="0.15347222222222223in"}, given
the JBM statistics of past {width="0.17916666666666667in"
height="0.15347222222222223in"} frames including all lost
frames{width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.15347222222222223in"}. Also
{width="0.3993055555555556in" height="0.20625in"} is the indicator function
such that:
{width="3.354861111111111in" height="0.42569444444444443in"} (22)
> Now we can find the probability mass function {width="0.6798611111111111in"
> height="0.20625in"} as follows,
{width="1.632638888888889in" height="0.9333333333333333in"} (23)
Note that {width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.15347222222222223in"} is
the maximum possible JBM depth, which is also the maximum possible FEC offset.
The denominator of the above equation is a normalization term so we can simply
compute {width="0.5923611111111111in" height="0.4861111111111111in"}for all
possible offsets {width="0.12569444444444444in"
height="0.14027777777777778in"} and pick the optimum FEC offset
{width="0.30694444444444446in" height="0.2326388888888889in"} which maximizes
the recovery of partial redundant information. _i.e_.
{width="2.765972222222222in" height="0.4861111111111111in"} (24)
The optimal FEC offset computation is carried out periodically once the total
number of frames or the total number of lost frames exceeds corresponding
threshold values. The optimal offset is rounded to a subset of values to
facilitate the quantization using a limited number of bits. The rounded offset
value is transmitted to the EVS encoder, thus the encoder can use the best
offset to ensure the improved performance under varying channel conditions.
## 6.3.2 Computation of a frame erasure rate indicator to control the
frequency of the Partial Redundancy transmission
To enable different levels of partial redundancy information transmission, the
JBM periodically computes the effective frame loss rate at the input to the
decoder. If the FER rate is below a predefined threshold (5 % by default), the
frame erasure rate indicator is set to LO (low), otherwise it is set to HI
(high).
As described in subclause 5.8.3 of [2], this parameter at the encoder controls
the threshold used to determine whether a particular frame is critical or not.
Such an adjustment of the criticality threshold is used to control the
frequency of partial copy transmission at the encoder. The HI setting adjusts
the criticality threshold to classify more frames as critical to transmit as
compared to the LO setting.
#