# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**Should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**Can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**Will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document identifies standardization needs and potential standards
gaps when using 5G Systems for media production. More specifically the
following aspects are addressed in this document:
\- To identify the relevant media production use cases (professional, semi-
professional, production, contribution), based on existing use-cases from TR
22.827 as well as requirements from TS 22.263, that may benefit from 5G System
functionalities. This includes collaboration use cases between media producers
and 5G System operators.
\- To develop one or several reference media production architectures and to
map the variety of different media and control flows (such as uplink video,
return video, tally, etc) involved in media production onto 5G System delivery
components.
\- To identify relevant QoS requirements for media production workflows,
including required bit rates, loss rates, formats, latencies and jitter, and
to identify their impact on the relevant KPIs for media production workflows
(reliability, mean-time-between failure, service-level agreements, etc.).
\- To identify relevant 5G System features like NPNs, Network Slicing, QoS
classes, network event reporting and assistance, etc. that are useful for
media production, and to clarify their usage for media production.
\- To identify the suitability of existing media production content delivery
protocols, codecs and service layers for 5G System usage, evaluate benefits
and gaps, and recommend profiles or extensions in collaboration with
organizations that develop and deploy existing protocols and codecs.
\- To study media device and network orchestration solutions (such as AMWA
NMOS), and their integration/interactions with the 5G exposure framework.
\- To collaborate with relevant other 3GPP groups and external organizations
(VSF, 5G-MAG, EBU, etc.) on media-related aspects of Media Production use
cases.
\- To identify potential normative work on media level for media production
use cases in 5G Systems.
The document primarily focuses on the usage of 5G Systems including NPNs (both
Standalone NPN and Public Network Integrated NPN).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.263: \"Service requirements for Video, Imaging and Audio for
Professional Applications (VIAPA)\".
[4] 3GPP TR 22.827: \"Study on Audio-Visual Service Production\".
[5] M.P. Sharabayko, M.A. Sharabayko, J. Dube, JS. Kim, JW. Kim: \"The SRT
Protocol\", draft-sharabayko-mops-srt-01
[6] Video Sercices Forum (VSF): \"Reliable Internet Stream Transport (RIST)
Activity Group\",
[7] VSF TR 06-1:2020 \"Reliable Internet Stream Transport (RIST) Protocol
Specification -- Simple Profile\",
https://vsf.tv/download/technical_recommendations/VSF_TR-06-1_2020_06_25.pdf
[8] VSF TR 06-2, \"Reliable Internet Stream Transport (RIST) Protocol
Specification -- Main Profile\",
https://www.vsf.tv/download/technical_recommendations/VSF_TR-06-2_2020_03_24.pdf
[9] NewTek: \"NDI Encoding/Decoding\", https://support.newtek.com/hc/en-
us/articles/218109667-NDI-Encoding-Decoding
[10] NewTek: \"NDI Network Bandwidth, https://support.newtek.com/hc/en-
us/articles/217662708-NDI-Network-Bandwidth
[11] David Aleksandersen: \"What is NDI^®^ (Network Device Interface)?\",
https://newsandviews.dataton.com/what-is-ndi-network-device-interface
[12] Kieran Kunhya and Ciro Noronha: \"RIST and SRT: What's the difference?\",
https://www.tvbeurope.com/ip-migration/rist-and-srt-whats-the-difference
[13] Tofik Sonono: \"Interoperable Retransmission Protocols with Low Latency
and Constrained Delay: A Performance Evaluation of RIST and SRT\", Masters
Thesis, KTH Stockholm, 2019.
[14] EBU: \"Minimum User Requirements to Build and Manage an IP-Based Media
Facility\", 15 July 2020,
https://tech.ebu.ch/files/live/sites/tech/files/shared/tech/tech3371.pdf.
[15] AMWA: \"NMOS Overview\", https://www.amwa.tv/nmos-overview.
[16] EBU: \"The Technology Pyramid For Media Nodes\", .
[17] EBU: \"Technology Pyramid Media Node Maturity Checklist\", September
2021, https://tech.ebu.ch/publications/technology-pyramid-media-node-maturity-
checklist?rec=1.
[18] AMWA: \"NMOS Technical Overview\",
https://specs.amwa.tv/nmos/branches/main/docs/2.0._Technical_Overview.html.
[19] AMWA: \"Networked Media Systems -- the Big Picture\",\
https://static.amwa.tv/networked-media-systems-big-picture-2021-03-05.pdf.
[20] AMWA: \"NMOS specification repository\", https://specs.amwa.tv/nmos.
[21] SMPTE ST 2110: \"Professional Media over Managed IP\".
[22] IEEE 1588-2008: \"Precision Time Protocol\".
[23] SMPTE ST 2022-1:2007: \"Forward Error Correction for Real-Time
Video/Audio Transport Over IP Networks\".
[24] SMPTE ST 2022-6:2012: \"Transport of High Bit Rate Media Signals over IP
Networks (HBRMT)\",
[25] SMPTE ST 2022-7:2019: \"Seamless Protection Switching of RTP Datagrams\".
[26] SMPTE ST 2059-2:2015: \"SMPTE Profile for Use of IEEE-1588 Precision Time
Protocol in Professional Broadcast Applications\".
[27] SMPTE ST 2110-10:2017: \"Professional Media Over Managed IP Networks:
System Timing and Definitions\".
[28] SMPTE ST 2110-20:2017: \"Professional Media Over Managed IP Networks:
Uncompressed Active Video\".
[29] SMPTE ST 2110-22:2019: \"Professional Media Over Managed IP Networks:
Constant Bit-Rate Compressed Video\".
[30] SMPTE ST 2110-30:2017: \"Professional Media Over Managed IP Networks: PCM
Digital Audio\".
[31] SMPTE ST 2110-31:2018: \"Professional Media Over Managed IP Networks:
AES3 Transparent Transport\".
[32] IETF RFC 4585: \"Extended RTP Profile for Real-time Transport Control
Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/AVPF)\".
[33] IETF RFC 8086: \"GRE-in-UDP Encapsulation\".
[34] Ember+ control protocol.
[35] SMPTE ST 259:2008: \"For Television --- SDTV Digital Signal/Data \---
Serial Digital Interface\".
[36] SMPTE ST 292-1:2012: \"1.5 Gb/s Signal/Data Serial Interface\".
[37] 3GPP TR 26.925: \"Typical traffic characteristics of media services on
3GPP networks\".
[38] Wikipedia: \"MADI\", last modified 19th April 2021,
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MADI
[39] Wikipedia: \"Time-Sensitive Networking\", last modified 23rd June 2021,
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time-Sensitive_Networking
[40] AES67 / SMPTE ST 2110: \"COMMONALITIES AND CONSTRAINTS\",
https://aimsalliance.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/AES67-SMPTE-
ST-2110-Commonalities-and-Constraints-Updated-April-2019.pdf
[41] IETF RFC 5104: \"Codec Control Messages in the RTP Audio-Visual Profile
with Feedback (AVPF)\".
[42] IETF RFC 4585: \"Extended RTP Profile for Real-time Transport Control
Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/AVPF)\".
[43] ISO/IEC 13818‑1: \"Information technology --- Generic coding of moving
pictures and associated audio information --- Part 1: Systems\".
[44] IETF RFC 3550\|STD 64: \"RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time
Applications\".
[45] IETF RFC 8086: \"GRE-in-UDP Encapsulation\".
[46] IETF RFC 2250: \"RTP Payload Format for MPEG1/MPEG2 Video\".
[47] IETF RFC 7798: \"RTP Payload Format for High Efficiency Video Coding
(HEVC)\".
[48] OASIS: \"MQTT Version 5.0\", 7^th^ March 2019, https://docs.oasis-
open.org/mqtt/mqtt/v5.0/mqtt-v5.0.html
[49] IETF RFC 6416: \"RTP Payload Format for MPEG-4 Audio/Visual Streams\".
[50] IETF RFC 9134: \"RTP Payload Format for ISO/IEC 21122 (JPEG XS)\".
[51] SMPTE ST 2110-40:2018 \"Professional Media Over Managed IP Networks:
SMPTE ST 291-1 Ancillary Data\".
[52] SMPTE ST 291-1:2011 \"Ancillary Data Packet and Space Formatting\".
[53] ITU-R BS.2076-2: \"Audio Definition Model\".
[54] SCTE-104 2019a: \"Automation System to Compression System Communications
Applications Program Interface (API)\".
[55] SMPTE ST 2020-1:2014 \"Format of Audio Metadata and Description of the
Asynchronous Serial Bitstream Transport\".
[56] ITU-R BS.2125-0: \"A serial representation of the Audio Definition
Model\".
[57] AES67-2018: \"AES standard for audio applications of networks -- High-
performance streaming audio-over-IP interoperability\".
[58] GSA: \"mmWave Bands 24.25 GHz\", May 2021,
https://gsacom.com/paper/mmwave-bands-24-25-ghz-may-2021-executive-summary/
[59] Li Nian, \"The Next Journey for 5G: The Standardization and Application
of mmWAVE\", https://www.gsma.com/greater-china/wp-
content/uploads/2020/09/%E6%AF%AB%E7%B1%B3%E6%B3%A2%E6%A0%87%E5%87%86%E5%8C%96%E5%92%8C%E8%AF%95%E9%AA%8C%E8%BF%9B%E5%B1%95_%E4%B8%AD%E5%9B%BD%E7%A7%BB%E5%8A%A8_%E6%9D%8E%E7%94%B7-1.pdf.
[60] GSMA Intelligence: \"The economics of mmWave 5G\", January 2021,
https://data.gsmaintelligence.com/research/research/research-2021/the-
economics-of-mmwave-5g
[61] 3GPP TR 38.900: \"Study on channel model for frequency spectrum above 6
GHz\".
[62] Yiqing Cao: \"Live 8K production using 5G mmWave\",
https://www.5g-mag.com/post/follow-up-workshop-media-production-over-5g-npn-
deep-dive-into-protocols.
[63] IETF RFC 9000: \"QUIC: A UDP-Based Multiplexed and Secure Transport\",
May 2021.
[64] IETF Internet-Draft draft-ietf-quic-datagram-08: \"An Unreliable Datagram
Extension to QUIC\", 14^th^ January 2022,
https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-quic-datagram-08.html.
[65] IETF Internet-Draft draft-gruessing-moq-requirements-00: \"QUIC
Encapsulation for Media over RTP -- Requirements and Use Cases\", October
2021, https://www.ietf.org/id/draft-gruessing-moq-requirements-00.html.
[66] IETF Internet-Draft draft-hurst-quic-rtp-tunnelling-01: \"QRT: QUIC RTP
Tunnelling\", 28^th^ January 2021,
https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-hurst-quic-rtp-tunnelling-01.
[67] IETF Internet-Draft draft-engelbart-rtp-over-quic-01: \"RTP over QUIC\",
25^th^ October 2021, https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-engelbart-rtp-over-
quic-01.html.
[68] IETF Internet-Draft draft-ietf-quic-http-34: \"Hypertext Transfer
Protocol Version 3 (HTTP/3)\", February 2021,
https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-quic-http-34.html.
[69] IETF RFC 2543: \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\", March 1999.
[70] IETF Internet-Draft draft-dawkins-avtcore-sdp-rtp-quic-00: \"SDP
Offer/Answer for RTP using QUIC as Transport\", 28^th^ January 2022,
https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-dawkins-avtcore-sdp-rtp-quic-00.html.
[71] IETF RFC 4588: \"RTP Retransmission Payload Format\", July 2006.
[72] IETF RFC 8888: \"RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Feedback for Congestion
Control\", January 2021.
[73] IETF RFC 8698: \"Network-Assisted Dynamic Adaptation (NADA): A Unified
Congestion Control Scheme for Real-Time Media\", February 2020.
[74] IETF RFC 8298: \"Self-Clocked Rate Adaptation for Multimedia\", December
2017.
[75] IETF Internet-Draft draft-ietf-rmcat-gcc-02: \"A Google Congestion
Control Algorithm for Real-Time Communication\", 8th July 2016,
https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-rmcat-gcc-02.
[76] IETF RFC 8382: \"Shared Bottleneck Detection for Coupled Congestion
Control for RTP Media\", June 2018.
[77] IETF Internet-Draft draft-ietf-quic-multipath-00: \"Multipath Extension
for QUIC\", February 2022, https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-quic-
multipath-00.html.
[78] ITU-R BT.2069-7, \"Tuning ranges and operational characteristics of
terrestrial electronic news gathering (ENG), television outside broadcast
(TVOB) and electronic field production (EFP) systems\", October 2017,
https://www.itu.int/dms_pub/itu-r/opb/rep/R-REP-BT.2069-7-2017-PDF-E.pdf.
[79] BBC White Paper WHP 277, \"BBC halfRF MIMO Radio-camera Programme
Trial\", February 2014, http://downloads.bbc.co.uk/rd/pubs/whp/whp-pdf-
files/WHP277.pdf.
[80] AES-R16-2021: \"AES Standards Report -- PTP parameters for AES67 and
SMPTE ST 2059-2 interoperability\", October 2021,
https://www.aes.org/publications/standards/search.cfm?docID=105
[81] ETSI TS 103 589: \"Higher Order Ambisonics (HOA) Transport Format\".
[82] Offical Audinate DANTE FAQ:
https://www.audinate.com/learning/faqs/clocking
[83] ITU-R BS.1548-7 \"User requirements for audio coding systems for digital
broadcasting\".
[84] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS)\".
[85] IETF RFC 7950: \"The YANG 1.1 Data Modeling Language\".
[86] IETF RFC 6241: \"Network Configuration Protocol (NETCONF)\".
[87] IEEE Std 802.1Q-2018: \"IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area
networks--Bridges and Bridged Networks\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**Non-Public Network** : See definition in TS 22.261 [2].
NOTE 1: Not all media production scenarios need a Non-Public Network.
**Tier 1, 2, 3** : Different categories of media production with differences
in importance and usage characteristics.
**Production link** : A connection, usually bidirectional with strict QoS and
latency requirements, between one or more devices used in a production
environment to carry audio, video or other data.
**Contribution link** : A connection between a production location and a
broadcast centre that is usually a single path for tier 3 production but may
be a dual path for Tier 1 events.
NOTE 2: Link technologies that support contribution include fibre, satellite,
microwave and bonded cellular.
NOTE 3: Not all production scenarios use both types of link. A recorded event
may use production links with no contribution element and a single-camera tier
3 event may just use a contribution link.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format (EW)
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AES Audio Engineering Society
AIMS Alliance for IP Media Solutions
AMWA Advanced Media Workflow Association
ARQ Automatic Repeat Query
CCU Camera Control Unit
DNS Domain Name System
FEC Forward Erasure Correction, Forward Error Correction
HDCP High-bandwidth Digital Content Protection
HDR High Dynamic Range
HFR Higher Frame Rates
HOA Higher Order Ambisonics
HTF HOA Transport Format
IPMX IP Media eXperience
mDNS Multicast DNS
MADI Multichannel Audio Digital Interface
MQTT Message Queuing Telemetry Transport
NDI Network Digital Interface
NMOS Networked Media Open Specifications
NPN Non-Public Network
PA Public Address
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
PTP Precision Time Protocol
PTZ Pan, Tilt, Zoom
QRT QUIC RTP Tunnelling
RIST Reliable Internet Stream Transport
SDI Serial Digital Interface
SMPTE Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers
SRT Secure Reliable Transport
VSF Video Service Forum
WAN Wide Area Network
# 4 Review of existing workflows and media protocols
## 4.1 General
There is a variety of different scenarios for media production operations
supporting different workflows across multiple genres, editorial ambitions and
budgets. Over time, solutions have evolved from analogue- to digital-based
workflows and the production community is currently migrating to IP based
architectures. IP-based production presents, among others, benefits in terms
of:
\- Handling existing and new video and audio technologies as media is
transported as data IP packets.
\- The carriage of media, control and data on the same network.
\- The harmonization of wide area and local media networks around same
technologies, therefore increasing flexibility and scalability of equipment
and infrastructure.
The largest single challenge is in the transport of high-quality video and
audio content from multiple cameras and microphones to tools that combine
these into an output such as a television programme or video stream that can
then be used for onward distribution. This requires high bandwidth in the
uplink path, often low latency in the network, time synchronization, as well
as meeting challenging network Quality of Service requirements.
Alongside the uplink of video and audio there is often network traffic in the
downlink direction which consists of a number of different functions such as
control, reverse audio and video and other forms of data, all having different
UEs at both the source and receiving ends.
Activities in media operations can be broadly broken down into three
categories:
1\. _Production:_ All of the activity that happens locally on location. This
activity often involves multiple sources of audio and video content used
alongside different technologies to produce content.
2\. _Contribution:_ The act of moving content from a production location to a
broadcast centre to be distributed. The content is often a single source of
Audio/Visual (AV) content that is moved over large distances.
3\. _Installed and Live Sound:_ Operations and workflows related to the
provision of live sound (usually an audio mix of the activity that happens
during production) to performers on stage, through in-ear monitoring devices
and/or to the on-site audience through Public Address (PA) systems. This
provisioning involves an audio transmission "closed loop" scenario, thus
requiring extremely low latency transmission of the audio content.
There are also different tiers of production activities that can be broadly
broken down as follows:
\- Tier One production:
\- Usually heavily planned in advance with high budgets.
\- Examples may include sports, cultural or historical events and studio
production.
\- Audio is usually separated and may have extra requirements such as live
audio feedback to performers, Public Address (PA) distribution on site, or
television/radio feeds.
\- These events usually demand the highest-level requirements in terms of
bandwidth and latency.
\- Tier Two production:
\- Usually planned in advance, but with lower budgets than Tier One
productions.
\- Examples include smaller scale sport and cultural events.
\- Audio production is usually separated and may have extra requirements such
as live audio feedback to performers or PA distribution on site.
\- Audio for contribution may be taken from a local source such as a PA or
venue system.
\- Large potential for cloud-based and distributed production.
\- Tier Three production:
\- Usually less planned and with constrained budgets.
\- Examples include live news and current affairs.
\- Simple solutions and often mixed production and contribution workflows.
\- Sometimes nomadic and growing in scale over time.
\- Best efforts transmission, and often highly compressed.
\- Audio is usually contributed locally to the camera.
In order to meet the requirements of different production scenarios a number
of different solutions have been developed. For instance, certain protocols
and codecs are better suited to different tiers of production. Alongside
these, different solutions have emerged: some based on proprietary solutions
that meet certain aspects of the workflows and some more open and
interoperable. In addition to the media transport layer there are also
requirements around control and orchestration which are generally based on
specific technologies built on open infrastructures while some others are
proprietary to support specific vendor implementations.
## 4.2 Transport Protocols
### 4.2.1 General
Transport protocols describe the way data is carried over networks. For media
operations there are a number of potential options. Different Transport
protocols support a variety of different wrappers (or payload formats), which
allow carriage of different media codecs and other data.
Transport protocols typically support reliability (e.g. using ARQ or FEC),
support for packet pacing and/or traffic shaping, features to allow network
address translation (NAT) and security features such as firewalls in the
network path. Some transport protocols also support some form or congestion
control to handle different network load conditions.
Transport protocols include the carriage of a timestamp in their protocol
header fields, which allow media from different sources to be related to a
common production wall-clock time reference. Depending on the protocol and the
usage, a sender may need to be time-synchronized with the system, so that the
system can align streams from different media source devices.
### 4.2.2 SMPTE ST 2110
#### 4.2.2.1 Introduction
SMPTE ST 2110 [21] specifies an RTP-based media transport protocol intended
for the carriage of uncompressed media streams in managed production networks.
Its primary goal is to provide a viable replacement for the Serial Digital
Interface (SDI) [35] [36] in professional media production environments using
commodity networking infrastructure and interconnects. It is designed to be
format-agnostic, handling various video formats such as 720/1080/4k raster
lines, progressive/interlaced raster scan, High Dynamic Range (HDR) sampling,
Higher Frame Rates (HFR), audio formats and ancillary formats. There are
standards for both compressed and uncompressed audio and video workflows, even
though the first round of work in SMPTE has focused on uncompressed workflows.
ST 2110 is currently optimised for use in studios and production facilities.
SMPTE ST 2110 keeps apart audio, video and ancillary data in separate
elementary streams. This is done to provide flexibility, allowing different
elementary streams to be routed and worked on independently.
ST 2110 also takes into consideration that the underlying infrastructure is no
longer synchronous (in contrast with the precursor Serial Digital Interface).
The enabler for separating audio, video and data streams on an asynchronous
infrastructure is timing, making sure that each elementary stream is time
stamped and that timing information is carried in the RTP header as part of
the stream. In the case of ST 2110 this is achieved using the Precision Time
Protocol (PTP) [22] [26].
In addition to timing, another challenge of moving to asynchronous
infrastructure is burstiness. With a synchronous infrastructure the concept of
burstiness does not exist, as traffic is delivered in one continuous flow.
With IP, that is no longer the case. Being packet-based, each device along the
traffic path contains buffers that are not synchronized. That means each
device and buffer acts independently, resulting in traffic being delivered in
bursts rather than as a continuous flow. For this reason, ST 2110 defines
several sender and receiver profiles describing the different packet pacing
patterns and the burst sizes accepted in different environments.
#### 4.2.2.2 ST 2110 for audio (ST 2110-30 and ST 2110-31)
In SMPTE ST 2110, audio transport is based on AES67 [57], specifying how to
carry uncompressed 48 kHz, or 96 kHz Pulse Code Modulated (PCM) audio. Up to
64 channels can be bundled in one stream and both 16- and 24-bit depth is
supported. In addition to this the ST 2110-31 [31] standard specifies how to
bit-accurately transport PCM and non-PCM AES3 (AES/EBU) audio payloads over
IP.
ST 2110 relies on ST 2110-30 [30] that is based on AES67 for the audio
transport. However, ST 2110-30 and ST 2110‑10 [27] introduce additional
constraints compared to AES67. Mainly, ST 2110 constraints refer to the area
of timing and synchronization.
Regarding the use of PTP, while AES67 mandates the use of gPTP and a specific
media profile, ST 2110-30 devices require the use of the SMPTE 2059-2 PTP
[26]. Fortunately, AES67 PTP Media profile and SMTPE 2059-2 PTP profile share
many commonalities so that it is possible to configure devices to interwork.
These commonalities are described in the AES-R16-2016 report [80] that defines
preferred PTP profile variables range that can be used in mixed ST 2110/AES67
environments. Further, most AES67 devices support the SMPTE 2059-2 PTP
profile. Another more important constraint impacts the offset of the media
clock and the network clock. ST 2110-30 requires that the offset of the media
clock with respect to the network clock is 0.
ST 2110- 31 builds on RAVENNA's AM824 (IEC 61883-6) payload definition, which
retains AES67 definitions for synchronization and RTP usage while it extends
the AES67 payload definition in one byte. All non-linear audio data formats
that fit into this pattern can be transported over ST2110-31.
With elementary streams, a key challenge for audio transport over a Wide Area
Network (WAN) is how to protect against loss. This is typically done using
Forward Error Correction (FEC) and/or "1+1 protection", but FEC on low-
bandwidth services such as audio introduces too much delay. The solution is
WAN architecture that can group together multiple streams into a high
bandwidth bundle, on which FEC can be applied.
#### 4.2.2.3 ST 2110 for video (ST 2110-20 and ST-2110-22)
Besides the RTP wrapper, another new thing about how uncompressed video is
carried is that only the active part of the image, i.e. the pixels actually
used, is sent. In contrast to SDI, ancillary data in the vertical blanking
interval is not transported.
Defined to support resolutions up to 32×32k pixels, ST 2110 is future-proof
with regards to supporting coming high-resolution formats and specifications.
Support for colour modes and colour depths are flexible and include HDR.
#### 4.2.2.4 ST 2110 for metadata (ST 2110-40 and ST-2110-41)
SMPTE ST 2110-40 [51] provides a mechanism for carriage over IP of SMPTE ST
291 [52] metadata that has traditionally been carried in the VANC (Vertical
ancillary data) space of an SDI multiplex. Because ST 2110-40 [51] supports
all ST 291 [52] payloads it is convenient in systems where metadata is being
converted between IP and SDI domains. However, it is also limited by the
constraints of ST 291 [52] ANC packets. Typical applications for ancillary
metadata are:
\- Carriage of timing markers for down-stream ad insertion.
\- Enforcement of Digital Rights Management (DRM) restrictions on specific
programs and regions.
\- Carriage of audio metadata.
Ad insertion timing and DRM is typically achieved via requests defined
SCTE-104 [53]. Audio metadata carriage over ST 291 [52] is defined in SMPTE ST
2020 [55].
The SMPTE ST 2110-41 updated standard, to be published in 2022, is not based
on ST 291 [52] but rather provides a new metadata transport that is relatively
unconstrained in terms of functionality or bandwidth limitations. While
existing applications like synchronized subtitles (closed captions) are in
scope, audio metadata is expected to be one of the first applications to use
ST 2110-41 [51].
Immersive and personalized audio requires the conveyance of a document
describing the audio elements in the stream. This is a departure from current
practice where the audio stream configuration (monaural, stereophonic, multi-
channel) is inferred from the number of audio channels. The Audio Definition
Model [53] provides these metadata and is used in file-based immersive audio
production today. Serial ADM [54] builds on ADM by providing a frame-based
serialization method. A proposal was submitted to SMPTE to define a packing
method for Serial ADM [54] in ST 2110-41 thus enabling the carriage of
advanced audio bundles over IP infrastructure. While the repetition rates for
Serial ADM [54] is not limited, it is expected that the video frame rate will
be typically used. Using 50 fps, a typical multi-language use-case requires a
bit rate of 8 Mbps. As the metadata is required to render the audio at the
endpoint, the QoS requirements defined in AES67 [57] apply.
### 4.2.3 Secure Reliable Transport (SRT)
Secure Reliable Transport (SRT) [5] is an open-source media transport protocol
that uses the UDP transport protocol. It has been presented to IETF as a
potential candidate for standardisation. SRT provides connection and control,
reliable transmission similar to TCP at the application layer. It supports
packet recovery while maintaining low latency. SRT also supports encryption
using AES.
The protocol was derived from the UDT project, designed for fast file
transmission. UDT provides its reliability mechanism by using similar methods
for connection, sequence numbers, acknowledgements and retransmission of lost
packets. UDT uses selective and immediate (NACK-based) retransmission.
SRT has all these features, but also adds several more to support live
streaming mode:
1\. Controlled latency, with source time transmission (timestamp-based packet
delivery).
2\. Sender bandwidth control.
3\. Conditional "too late" packet dropping (prevents head-of-line blocking
caused by a lost packet that wasn't recovered on time).
4\. Eager packet re-transmission (periodic NACK report).
SRT can be used to convey any suitable application payload, including MPEG‑2
Transport Stream [43] and RTP [44].
### 4.2.4 Reliable Internet Stream Transport (RIST)
Reliable Internet Stream Transport [6] is an open source, open specification
transport protocol designed for reliable transmission of media over lossy
networks (including the internet) with low latency and high quality. It is
currently being developed and maintained by the Video Services Forum (VSF).
Technically, RIST seeks to provide reliable, high performance media transport
by using RTP/UDP at the transport layer to avoid the limitations of TCP.
Reliability is achieved by using NACK-based retransmissions to realise an
Automatic Repeat Query (ARQ) capability. SMPTE-2022 Forward Error Correction
can be combined with RIST but is known to be significantly less effective than
ARQ.
RIST Simple Profile [7] was initially published by the VSF in October 2018 and
revised in June 2020. It includes the following features:
\- The base stream uses RTP for compatibility with existing equipment.
\- Retransmission requests use RTCP. Two types of retransmission requests are
defined:
\- A Bitmask-based NACK, defined as a Transport Layer Feedback message in
section 6.2.1 of RFC 4585 [42].
\- A Range-based NACK, defined by [7] as an application-specific (APP) RTCP
packet (see also section 6.7 of RFC 3550 [44].
\- Bonding of multiple links for load sharing.
\- Seamless switching using SMTPE-2022-7 [25].
\- Out-of-band transmission of protection data (retransmissions may use a
separate link).
\- RTT Echo Request / Response procedure to estimate the round-trip time.
RIST Main Profile [8] was published in March 2020 and adds the following
features to Simple Profile:
\- GRE-in-UDP encapsulation based on RFC 8086 [45], with bidirectional
send/receive in the same tunnel.
\- Multiplexing of multiple streams into the same tunnel.
\- In-band data support in the tunnel, useful for remote management.
\- Client/Server architecture.
\- Firewall traversal.
\- DTLS encryption or Pre-Shared Key encryption, with multicast support,
access control, and authentication.
\- Advanced authentication options using either public key certificates or
TLS-SRP.
\- Bandwidth optimization based on null packet deletion.
\- Support for high bit-rate streams by extending the size of the RTP sequence
number space.
NOTE: RIST Simple Profile does not require or recommend any RTP payload
format. As result, deployments may embed for example HEVC frames into an
MPEG2-Transport Stream container according to RFC 2250 [46] or directly into
RTP according to RFC 7798 [47].
### 4.2.5 Network Device Interface NDI
Network Device Interface (NDI^®^) [11] is a software solution developed by
NewTek™ to enable video-compatible products to communicate, deliver, and
receive high-definition video over a network in a high-quality, low-latency
manner that is frame-accurate and suitable for switching in a live production
environment. In contrast to SRT and RIST, NDI is intended to transfer media
streams within a facility, not for contribution over the public networks.
NDI is designed to run over gigabit Ethernet. The table below lists the
approximate bandwidth required by NDI codec [10] for different video streams.
Table 4.2.5-1: NDI Network Bandwidth [10]
* * *
Video stream Approximate bit rate\ required by NDI codec
* * *
2160p59.94 400 Mbps
2160p29.97 250 Mbps
1080p59.94 150 Mbps
1080i59.94 100 Mbps
720p59.94 90 Mbps
480i59.94 20 Mbps
* * *
By default, NDI uses the multicast DNS (mDNS) discovery mechanism to advertise
sources on a Local Area Network (LAN), although two other discovery modes (NDI
Access, NDI Discovery Server) allow for operations across different subnets.
When a source is requested, a TCP connection is established on the appropriate
port with the NDI receiver connecting to the NDI sender. NDI 3.x has options
to use UDP multicast or unicast with Forward Error Correction (FEC) instead of
TCP, and can load balance streams across multiple Network Interface
Controllers (NICs) without using link aggregation. NDI 4.0 introduces multi-
TCP connections.
NDI carries video, multichannel uncompressed audio and metadata in XML form.
Metadata messages can be sent in both directions allowing the sender and
receiver to message one another over the connection with arbitrary metadata.
This directional metadata system allows for functionality such as active tally
information (on-air program/preview). NDI Receivers can opt to connect to
various combinations of streams, to support things like audio-only or
metadata-only connections where video is not required.
### 4.2.6 IP Media eXperience (IPMX)
IPMX (IP Media eXperience) is a recent initiative of the Alliance for IP Media
Solutions (AIMS) to provide a standards-based approach for "Pro-AV" IP
applications, such as in conference rooms, for digital signage etc., which
might otherwise use HDMI or an Ethernet- (rather than IP-) based protocol such
as SDVoE or HDBaseT.
IPMX adapts the SMPTE ST 2110 [21] specifications to provide a lower-cost
approach to synchronisation -- it still uses PTP but does not require boundary
switches -- and a timing model that is possibly better suited to software
implementation. It uses mezzanine compression (JPEG-XS [50]) and NMOS
discovery and connection (see below). It supports HDCP content protection.
At this time IPMX is still in development with few products available and it
is too soon to comment on its interoperability.
### 4.2.7 Comparison Table
Table 4.2.7-1: Comparison of media transport protocols
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | P | ST 2110 | SRT | RIST | NDI | IPMX | | arameter | | | | | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | Intended | High | Cont | Cont | Transfer | "Pro-AV" | | use | quality | ribution | ribution | of media | appl | | | facility | over | over | streams | ications | | | and OB | un | un | within a | such as | | | op | reliable | reliable | facility | co | | | erations | links | links | | nference | | | | (e.g., | (e.g., | | rooms, | | | | public | public | | digital | | | | i | i | | signage, | | | | nternet) | nternet) | | etc | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Propri | Open | Op | Op | Pro | S | | etary/Op | standard | ensource | ensource | prietary | tandards | | ensource | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Based on | RTP | UDT | RTP, | TCP/UDP | RTP | | protocol | | | e.g. | | | | | | | TS | | | | | | | -over-IP | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Interope | wider | Can be | Good | P | Too soon | | rability | vendor | limited | | artially | to | | | support | between | | limited | comment | | | and | d | | due to | | | | c | ifferent | | pro | | | | ommunity | vendors | | prietary | | | | of | | | nature | | | | practice | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Latency | unco | Confi | Confi | Pra | "Sub | | | mpressed | gurable, | gurable, | ctically | frame" | | | very low | 4 × RTT | 4 × RTT | one | | | | | of the | of the | field | | | | co | link is | link is | latency, | | | | mpressed | rec | rec | might be | | | | under 2 | ommended | ommended | as low | | | | lines | | | as 8 | | | | | | | scan | | | | | | | lines | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Error | | FEC/ARQ | FEC/ARQ | TCP or | | | co | | | | FEC | | | rrection | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Security | Designed | T | T | Designed | Support | | | for | ransport | ransport | for | for HDCP | | | closed | en | en | closed | | | | networks | cryption | cryption | networks | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Authen | NMOS | Su | Su | Not | | | tication | | pported, | pported, | s | | | | | PSK | PSK and | upported | | | | | based | DTLS | natively | | | | | | based | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | M | S | Not | S | S | S | | ulticast | upported | s | upported | upported | upported | | | | upported | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Multiple | S | Not | S | S | S | | links | upported | s | upported | upported | upported | | | | upported | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Codec | Uncom | Codec | Codec | Built in | JPEG XS | | | pressed, | agnostic | agnostic | | or other | | | JPEG XS, | | | | | | | ST | | | | | | | 2042-1 | | | | | | | (VC-2), | | | | | | | pot | | | | | | | entially | | | | | | | more in | | | | | | | future | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### 4.2.8 Other Protocols
A number of other protocols exist for the carriage of audio and video data
such as ST 2022-6 (encapsulated SDI) as well as various proprietary solutions.
There are also solutions such as HDBaseT, AVLC, SDVoE Dante AV which support
other workflows such as conference and event production.
### 4.2.9 Audio Networking Solutions
DANTE, RAVENNA, QLAN, LiveWire+, WheatNet-IP can be considered as complete
audio networking solutions, i.e. offering a complete networked audio systems.
While each audio networking solution offers in-system connectivity, previous
to the appearance of AES67 there was no standard to provide inter-system
connectivity, thus leading to incompatibility between devices implementing
different audio networking solutions.
AES67 [57] is not a complete audio networking solution but it does specify a
mode of operation that allows interoperability between audio devices
implementing different audio networking technologies (or audio "complete"
networking solutions). Thus, AES67 is a complement to the existing audio
networking technologies but not in direct competition with them.
AES67 defines a set of common protocols and standards to achieve that
compatibility/interoperability. Like ST 2110 it uses RTP streams, and (with
care) AES67 and ST 2110-320 audio systems can interoperate.
## 4.3 Codec choice
In order to transport audio and video data over bandwidth-constrained networks
there is a need to encode and decode video and audio.
To achieve the optimum balance of needed bandwidth, quality and latency there
are a number of different codecs solutions that are found in a production
workflow.
Different categories of production tend to use different codecs. For instance,
a Tier 1 event would prioritise a high-quality, low-latency mezzanine codec
over a highly compressed codec that would be better suited to a news
environment. This choice is influenced by both the subject matter being
captured and the time taken to encode and decode the video and audio. The
table below describes some common use of various codecs.
There are many options for audio and video codecs and they have different
applications. Some are more suited to distribution of content, some for file-
based processes such as post-production and some for live production and
contribution. Table 4.3-1 below highlights some common usage scenarios for
live production and contribution, but specific applications may substitute
similar types of codecs or codec structures which may depend on proprietary
infrastructure, licensing issues or interoperability with downstream process.
Table 4.3‑1: Codec comparison by production type
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Pro | Codec | Ba | Common | Reasons | S | W | | duction | | ndwidth | Use | | trength | eakness | | Type | | for | | | | | | | | Full HD | | | | | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+ | Tier 1 | JPEG | >100 | Com | Very | High | R | | | XS/‌VC2 | Mbit/s | pressed | low | quality | equires | | | | | high | latency | and low | high | | | | | quality | encoder | l | ba | | | | | low | can | atency. | ndwidth | | | | | com | handle | ST 2110 | | | | | | plexity | complex | compat | | | | | | | scenes | ibility | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | H. | \ (informative): Change history
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **C | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hist | | | | | | | | | ory** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **D | * |** T | * | ** | ** | **Su |** New | | ate**| *Meet | doc** | _CR_ _| Rev_ _| Cat_ _| bject | vers | | | ing_ _| | | | | /Comm | ion_ _| | | | | | | | ent_ * | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Apr | SA4 | S4-2 | | | | In | 0.0.1 | | 2021 | #113 | 10519 | | | | itial | | | | | | | | | ve | | | | | | | | | rsion | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Apr | SA4 | S4-2 | | | | S4-21 | 0.1.0 | | 2021 | #113 | 10678 | | | | 0527: | | | | | | | | | Stru | | | | | | | | | cture | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | tech | | | | | | | | | nical | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | eport | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S4-21 | | | | | | | | | 0641: | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | escri | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | exi | | | | | | | | | sting | | | | | | | | | media | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ocols | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | media | | | | | | | | | produ | | | | | | | | | ction | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | May | Post | S4-2 | | | | S | 0.1.1 | | 2021 | SA4 | 10726 | | | | 4aI21 | | | | #113 | | | | | 1164: | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | escri | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | amera | | | | | | | | | media | | | | | | | | | flows | | | | | | | | | in a | | | | | | | | | Mu | | | | | | | | | lti-C | | | | | | | | | amera | | | | | | | | | produ | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | 4aI21 | | | | | | | | | 1165: | | | | | | | | | Ove | | | | | | | | | rview | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | NMOS | | | | | | | | | fun | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | ality | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | May | SA4 | S4-2 | | | | S4-21 | 0.2.0 | | 2021 | #114 | 10939 | | | | 0919: | | | | | | | | | FS_N | | | | | | | | | PN4AV | | | | | | | | | Prod: | | | | | | | | | Util | | | | | | | | | izing | | | | | | | | | Avai | | | | | | | | | lable | | | | | | | | | Cap | | | | | | | | | acity | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Mu | | | | | | | | | lti-C | | | | | | | | | amera | | | | | | | | | Scen | | | | | | | | | arios | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S4-21 | | | | | | | | | 0913: | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | diff | | | | | | | | | erent | | | | | | | | | produ | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | types | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | add | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | more | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nform | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | about | | | | | | | | | exi | | | | | | | | | sting | | | | | | | | | workf | | | | | | | | | lows. | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Aug | SA4 | S4-2 | | | | S4-21 | 0.3.0 | | 2021 | #115 | 11267 | | | | 1241: | | | | | | | | | [F | | | | | | | | | S_NP | | | | | | | | | N5AVP | | | | | | | | | rod] | | | | | | | | | Cla | | | | | | | | | rific | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | Cloud | | | | | | | | | vs | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | emote | | | | | | | | | Produ | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S4-21 | | | | | | | | | 1242: | | | | | | | | | [F | | | | | | | | | S_NP | | | | | | | | | N5AVP | | | | | | | | | rod] | | | | | | | | | Pro | | | | | | | | | posal | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | Media | | | | | | | | | Pro | | | | | | | | | tocol | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | Key | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | ssues | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S4-21 | | | | | | | | | 1243: | | | | | | | | | [F | | | | | | | | | S_NP | | | | | | | | | N5AVP | | | | | | | | | rod] | | | | | | | | | Pro | | | | | | | | | posal | | | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | emote | | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | | amera | | | | | | | | | Con | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | Key | | | | | | | | | Issue | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S4-21 | | | | | | | | | 1244: | | | | | | | | | [F | | | | | | | | | S_NP | | | | | | | | | N5AVP | | | | | | | | | rod] | | | | | | | | | Pro | | | | | | | | | posal | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | two | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | | adapt | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | Key | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | ssues | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S4-21 | | | | | | | | | 1245: | | | | | | | | | [F | | | | | | | | | S_NP | | | | | | | | | N5AVP | | | | | | | | | rod] | | | | | | | | | Pro | | | | | | | | | posal | | | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | | | Key | | | | | | | | | Issue | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | round | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | nfigu | | | | | | | | | rable | | | | | | | | | audio | | | | | | | | | cha | | | | | | | | | nnels | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S4-21 | | | | | | | | | 1246: | | | | | | | | | [F | | | | | | | | | S_NP | | | | | | | | | N5AVP | | | | | | | | | rod] | | | | | | | | | Pro | | | | | | | | | posal | | | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | | | new | | | | | | | | | NPN | | | | | | | | | usage | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | Key | | | | | | | | | Issue | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Nov | SA4 | S4-2 | | | | S | 0.4.0 | | 2021 | #116 | 11600 | | | | 4aI21 | | | | | | | | | 1249: | | | | | | | | | [F | | | | | | | | | S_NP | | | | | | | | | N4AVP | | | | | | | | | rod] | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | SRT | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | RIST | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | escri | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S4-21 | | | | | | | | | 1601: | | | | | | | | | [F | | | | | | | | | S_NP | | | | | | | | | N4AVP | | | | | | | | | rod] | | | | | | | | | QoS | | | | | | | | | Separ | | | | | | | | | ation | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SP\ | SP-2 | | | | Pr | 1.0.0 | | 21-12 | #94-e | 11341 | | | | esent | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | to SA | | | | | | | | | pl | | | | | | | | | enary | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nform | | | | | | | | | ation | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | Post | S4aI2 | | | | S | 1.0.1 | | 21-12 | SA4 | 11275 | | | | 4aI21 | | | | #116 | | | | | 1265: | | | | | | | | | Stru | | | | | | | | | cture | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 6.805 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | Post | S4-2 | | | | Edit | 1.0.2 | | 22-02 | SA4 | 20136 | | | | orial | | | | #116 | | | | | C | | | | | | | | | orrec | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | 4aI22 | | | | | | | | | 1294: | | | | | | | | | [F | | | | | | | | | S_NP | | | | | | | | | N4AVP | | | | | | | | | rod] | | | | | | | | | SMPTE | | | | | | | | | audio | | | | | | | | | met | | | | | | | | | adata | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | Post | S4-2 | | | | S4-22 | 1.1.0 | | 22-02 | SA4\ | 20279 | | | | 0029: | | | | #117e | | | | | [F | | | | | | | | | S_NP | | | | | | | | | N4AVP | | | | | | | | | rod] | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | mWAVE | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | Media | | | | | | | | | Produ | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S4-22 | | | | | | | | | 0059: | | | | | | | | | Tunne | | | | | | | | | lling | | | | | | | | | RTP | | | | | | | | | media | | | | | | | | | ses | | | | | | | | | sions | | | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | | | QUIC | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S4-22 | | | | | | | | | 0142: | | | | | | | | | [FS | | | | | | | | | _NPN | | | | | | | | | 4AVPr | | | | | | | | | od]: | | | | | | | | | Defin | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | Col | | | | | | | | | labor | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | Scen | | | | | | | | | arios | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S4-22 | | | | | | | | | 0143: | | | | | | | | | [FS | | | | | | | | | _NPN | | | | | | | | | 4AVPr | | | | | | | | | od]: | | | | | | | | | In | | | | | | | | | trodu | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | Cand | | | | | | | | | idate | | | | | | | | | Solu | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | up | | | | | | | | | dates | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | KI#2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA4\ | S4-2 | | | | S4-22 | 1.2.0 | | 22-04 | #118e | 20548 | | | | 0467: | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | escri | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | KI#4 | | | | | | | | | (St | | | | | | | | | andby | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | Pr | | | | | | | | | ogram | | | | | | | | | Came | | | | | | | | | ras), | | | | | | | | | incl | | | | | | | | | solu | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S4-22 | | | | | | | | | 0561: | | | | | | | | | KI6 | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | acing | | | | | | | | | Audio | | | | | | | | | Cha | | | | | | | | | nnels | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S4-22 | | | | | | | | | 0562: | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | evice | | | | | | | | | On | | | | | | | | | Boa | | | | | | | | | rding | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA4\ | S4-2 | | | | Edit | 1.2.1 | | 22-05 | #119e | 20687 | | | | orial | | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | | orrec | | | | | | | | | tions | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA4\ | S4-2 | | | | Edit | 1.3.0 | | 22-05 | #119e | 20813 | | | | orial | | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | | orrec | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S4-22 | | | | | | | | | 0872: | | | | | | | | | [FS | | | | | | | | | _NPN | | | | | | | | | 4AVPr | | | | | | | | | od]: | | | | | | | | | Pro | | | | | | | | | posal | | | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | | | study | | | | | | | | | concl | | | | | | | | | usion | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S4-22 | | | | | | | | | 0873: | | | | | | | | | [FS | | | | | | | | | _NPN | | | | | | | | | 4AVPr | | | | | | | | | od]: | | | | | | | | | Solu | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | KI#6 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | S | SP-2 | | | | Ve | 2.0.0 | | 22-06 | A#96 | 20606 | | | | rsion | | | | | | | | | sent | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | SA | | | | | | | | | pl | | | | | | | | | enary | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | S | | | | | Br | 1 | | 22-06 | A#96 | | | | | ought | 7.0.0 | | | | | | | | under | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | S | | | | | Edit | 1 |