# Foreword
This Technical report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
During Rel-14, several VoLTE/ViLTE enhancement features were specified at the
RAN level (as part of the LTE_VoLTE_ViLTE_enh work item) for RAN-assisted
codec adaptation, VoLTE/ViLTE signalling optimization and VoLTE/ViLTE
quality/coverage enhancement. In addition, media handling aspects of RAN-
assisted codec adaptation functionality were specified in TS 26.114.
As part of the VoLTE quality/coverage enhancement functionality, a delay
budget reporting framework was specified at the RAN level so that the VoLTE
coverage can be effectively enhanced by relaxing the air interface delay
budget. The UE uses RRC signalling to report the delay budget information.
Based on the reported delay budget information, when a UE is in good coverage,
the eNB can configure longer DRX for power saving purpose or the eNB can
reduce DRX cycle in order to help the remote UE and reduce end-to-end delay
and jitter, since when the remote UE is in bad coverage, the local eNB of that
remote UE can increase the retransmission times in order to reduce the packet
loss.
The present document addresses several gaps associated with the use of the RAN
delay budget reporting framework requiring suitable media handling
recommendations. In particular, the following questions are addressed:
\- What are the available mechanisms in TS 26.114 and kinds of information
available at the MTSI client that can help towards determining the content of
the RAN-level _UEAssistanceInformation_ messages with delay budget report
information?
\- How does RAN-level delay budget reporting work in conjunction with existing
media adaptation behaviours in TS 26.114 for MTSI in an end-to-end fashion?
\- What kind of MTSI signalling (if any) at the media handling level would
facilitate a more coordinated and optimized use of the RAN delay budget
reporting framework in an end-to-end fashion?
# 1 Scope
The present document investigates several MTSI enhancements relevant to the
media handling aspects of RAN delay budget reporting. More specifically, the
following MTSI enhancements are addressed, and the related gap analysis and
conclusions are documented:
1) Potential recommendations for MTSI on the available mechanisms in TS 26.114
to determine the content of _UEAssistanceInformation_ messages with delay
budget report information including:
\- Relevant end-to-end quality metrics (e.g., round-trip time (RTT), packet
loss ratio (PLR), jitter, etc.) in MTSI and other relevant information that
can be used to trigger _UEAssistanceInformation_ messages.
\- Suitable conditions on the end-to-end delay and jitter to determine:
\- if UE should send _UEAssistanceInformation_ with delay budget report
information, e.g., suitable RTT thresholds (i.e., with RTT determined by using
RTCP sender and receiver reports),
\- what kind of information may be included in the _UEAssistanceInformation_
messages based on the available information at the MTSI client.
2) Potential recommendations on how RAN-level delay budget reporting works in
conjunction with existing media adaptation behaviours in TS 26.114 for MTSI.
Relevant media adaptation behaviours include:
\- Codec rate or mode adaptation via CMR / RTCP-APP messages (for voice).
\- Use of application layer redundancy for increased reliability.
\- Use of packet bundling (a.k.a. frame aggregation).
In particular, potential recommendations are studied on when and how the UEs
should use RAN-based delay adjustment mechanisms in an end-to-end fashion also
accounting for local radio conditions and when UEs may activate and perform
media-layer adaptation. The recommendations provided are flexible enough to
enable implementations to optimize how relevant metrics and information,
including non-standardized information, are used by the UE.
3) Identification and definition of potential new formats for real-time
signalling of delay budget information from an MTSI receiver to an MTSI sender
during a multimedia telephony session are also considered.
Furthermore, end-to-end performance evaluations for MTSI are presented, based
on end-to-end metrics such as delay, jitter and packet loss rate, in
conjunction with RAN-level air interface delay considerations toward
developing potential recommendations on MTSI for the areas above.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia telephony;
Media handling and interaction\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.306: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol specification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.132: \"Speech and video telephony terminal acoustic test
specification\".
[8] 3GPP TR 26.952: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Performance
characterization\".
[9] IETF RFC 4585 (2006): \"Extended RTP Profile for Real-time Transport
Control Protocol (RTCP) - Based Feedback (RTP/AVPF)\", J. Ott, S. Wenger, N.
Sato, C. Burmeister and J. Rey.
[10] 3GPP TR 26.959: \"Study on enhanced Voice over LTE (VoLTE) performance\".
[11] Report ITU-R M.2135, \"Guidelines for evaluation of radio interface
technologies for IMT-Advanced\", 2008.
[12] 3GPP TS 26.442: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); ANSI C code
(fixed-point)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ANBR Access Network Bitrate Recommendation
CDRX Connected Mode DRX
CMR Codec Mode Request
DRX Discontinuous Reception
E2E End-to-End
JBM Jitter Buffer Management
MTSI Multimedia Telephony Service over IMS
PLR Packet Loss Ratio
POLQA Perceptual Objective Listening Quality
RTCP RTP Control Protocol
RTT Round-trip time
SDP Session Description Protocol
UL Up-link
VoLTE Voice over LTE
# 4 Overview of RAN Delay Budget Reporting
## 4.1 Background
During Rel-14, several VoLTE/ViLTE enhancement features were specified at the
RAN level [3] to [6] (as part of the LTE_VoLTE_ViLTE_enh work item) for RAN-
assisted codec adaptation, VoLTE/ViLTE signalling optimization and VoLTE/ViLTE
quality/coverage enhancement. In addition, media handling aspects of RAN-
assisted codec adaptation functionality were specified in TS 26.114 [2].
As part of the VoLTE quality/coverage enhancement functionality, a delay
budget reporting framework was specified at the RAN level so that the VoLTE
coverage can be effectively enhanced by relaxing the air interface delay
budget. The UE uses RRC signalling to report the delay budget information, as
specified in TS 36.331 [6]. Based on the reported delay budget information,
when a UE is in good coverage, the eNB can configure longer DRX for power
saving purpose or the eNB can reduce DRX cycle in order to help the remote UE
and reduce end-to-end delay and jitter, since when the remote UE is in bad
coverage, the local eNB of that remote UE can increase the retransmission
times in order to reduce the packet loss.
## 4.2 Use Cases
In Figure 4.2.1, one use case on RAN delay budget reporting functionality is
presented. Here, UE1 (MTSI receiver) is in good radio condition and configured
with 40 ms CDRX. UE2 (MTSI sender) is in bad radio condition and configured
with no CDRX. The scenario in Figure 4.2.1 happens in the following sequence:
1) UE2 detects bad-radio condition (e.g., high BLER), it does many HARQ
retransmissions, which cause long jitter and E2E delay at the receiver UE1.
2) UE1 detects that VoLTE quality is bad (e.g., large jitter or delay), hence
it suggests eNB1 to de-configure CDRX or shorten CDRX cycle. As a result, end-
to-end delay and jitter are reduced.
3) UE2 detects that VoLTE E2E delay has dropped. UE2 reports larger delay
headroom to eNB2, so eNB may apply more eMTC repetitions (or more HARQ
retransmissions).
Figure 4.2.1: UE1 shortening CDRX cycle for a degraded VoLTE call
Essentially, UE1, despite its good coverage conditions, requests and if
granted by the eNB, achieves the shortening of its CDRX cycle, in order to be
able to provide more delay budget for UE2 so that UE2 can better tackle its
poor coverage conditions and increase the reliability of its uplink
transmissions. As such, the end-to-end quality of an MTSI call can be improved
through reduced end-to-end delay and jitter. Such a capability requires that
the UE is able to indicate to the eNB a CDRX cycle value that is different
than the configured CDRX cycle value, for instance the UE may indicate
preferred CDRX cycle length via a new RRC message.
## 4.3 RAN Feature Description
In order to realize the use cases above, the following RRC signaling was
adopted in TS 36.331 [6] based on the _UEAssistanceInformation_ message with
the semantics shown in Table 4.3.1 that allows the UE to signal to the eNB
delay budget reporting information carrying desired increment/decrement in the
Uu air interface delay or connected mode DRX cycle length.as follows:
1) A UE in good coverage indicates a preference to the eNB to reduce the local
air interface delay by sending a _UEAssistanceInformation_ message with
_delayBudgetReport_ value and indication of _type1_ to decrease the connected
mode DRX cycle length, so that the E2E delay and jitter can be reduced.
2) The peer UE in bad coverage can send a _UEAssistanceInformation_ message
with _delayBudgetReport_ value and indication of _type2_ to its eNB to
indicate a preference on Uu air interface delay adjustments.
When the UE detects changes such as end-to-end MTSI voice quality or local
radio quality, the UE may inform the eNB its new preference by sending
_UEAssistanceInformation_ messages with updated contents on
_delayBudgetReport_.
**The eNB then decides which CDRX cycle to use. A prohibit timer is configured
by the eNB to prevent the UE from sending the indication too frequently.**
Table 4.3.1: Semantics of the _UEAssistanceInformation_ message for RAN delay
budget reporting
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | _UEAssistanceInformation field descriptions_ | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **_delayBudgetReport_** | | | | Indicates the UE-preferred adjustment to connected mode DRX or | | coverage enhancement configuration. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **_type1_** | | | | Indicates the preferred amount of increment/decrement to the | | connected mode DRX cycle length with respect to the current | | configuration. Value in number of milliseconds. Value ms40 | | corresponds to 40 milliseconds, msMinus40 corresponds to -40 | | milliseconds and so on. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **_type2_** | | | | Indicates the preferred amount of increment/decrement to the | | coverage enhancement configuration with respect to the current | | configuration so that the Uu air interface delay changes by the | | indicated amount. Value in number of milliseconds. Value ms24 | | corresponds to 24 milliseconds, msMinus24 corresponds to -24 | | milliseconds and so on. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
# 5 MTSI Impacts of RAN Delay Budget Reporting
## 5.1 Technical Aspect 1: End-to-End Delay and Quality Enhancements with RAN
Delay Budget Reporting
### 5.1.1 Description
RAN delay budget reporting allows air interface delay adjustments at MTSI
sender and/or MTSI receiver, so that the end-to-end delay and quality
performance can be enhanced. Considering the use case described in clause 4.2,
a good coverage UE on the receiving end to reduce its air interface delay,
e.g., by turning off CDRX or via other means. This additional delay budget can
then be made available for the sending UE, and can be quite beneficial for the
sending UE when it suffers from poor coverage. The sending UE would request
the additional delay from its eNB, and if granted, it would utilize the
additional delay budget to improve the reliability of its uplink transmissions
in order to reduce packet loss, e.g., via suitable repetition or
retransmission mechanisms.
Toward developing an end-to-end operational perspective for the MTSI sender
and MTSI receiver, the consideration of two modes are relevant:
1) _Autonomous mode:_ MTSI sender and MTSI receiver independently use RAN
delay budget reporting mechanisms toward adjusting air interface delay in
their respective RANs. As such, there is no coordination between them. In the
meantime, both sending and receiving UEs utilize available end-to-end metrics
and other information available at their MTSI client to trigger RAN delay
budget reporting.
2) _Coordinated mode:_ MTSI sender and MTSI receiver trigger and use RAN delay
budget reporting mechanisms in a coordinated fashion, and exchange delay
budget information with each other, as they work toward adjusting air
interface delays in their respective RANs. In particular, in the coordinated
mode (i) an MTSI receiver can indicate available delay budget to an MTSI
sender, and (ii) an MTSI sender can explicitly request delay budget from an
MTSI receiver. Detailed description of the potential solutions to signal delay
budget availability information between the MTSI sender and receiver may be
found in Clause 5.1.5.2. Both sending and receiving UEs utilize available end-
to-end metrics at their MTSI client and other relevant application layer
signalling received from the remote MTSI client to trigger RAN delay budget
reporting.
As it will be more evident in the forthcoming signalling flows, the
shortcomings of the autonomous mode are as follows:
1) While the MTSI sender and MTSI receiver UEs may both be independently able
to adjust their air interface delays based on the information in their MTSI
clients, they are never aware of the capabilities or actions of the other UE.
For example, while an MTSI receiver in good coverage may turn off cDRX to
create delay budget for an MTSI sender, it may be the case that the MTSI
sender does not even support delay budget reporting, or that the MTSI
sender\'s eNB may not grant the additional delay budget to the MTSI sender, so
the effort of the MTSI receiver may not deliver any end-to-end performance
gain, and end up wasting the battery power of the MTSI receiver UE. Likewise,
an MTSI sender in poor coverage may increase its air interface delay in an
attempt to perform further retransmissions to mitigate against packet losses,
without any knowledge of the possible detrimental impacts on the MTSI
receiver, e.g., packets being dropped at the jitter buffer management (JBM)
level.
2) When UE-1 and UE-2 independently adjust their air interface delays, they
rely on the end-to-end measurements available at their MTSI clients, e.g., by
monitoring reception of RTP packets and RTCP sender and receiver reports, and
knowledge of their local radio conditions. Purely relying on this information,
an MTSI receiver may not be able to correctly detect the need for additional
delay budget at the MTSI sender, e.g., as it may be the case that the losses
are caused in the network. An explicit indication from the MTSI sender as
would be enabled by the coordinated mode can help the MTSI receiver make the
right conclusion. Moreover, the MTSI receiver may not be able to determine
exactly how much additional delay budget is needed on the air interface for
the MTSI sender UE. Likewise, an MTSI sender may not be able to determine
exactly how much additional delay budget it could ask from its eNB in the
autonomous mode, in the absence of any signalling from the MTSI receiver.
3) With the use of the coordinated mode, delay budget adaptation and
consequent larger number of retransmissions can be done faster via the real
time exchange of delay budget information using RTP/RTCP signalling compared
to the autonomous mode which would have to rely on measurements and inference
at the UEs based on packet statistics, collection of which requires a certain
observation period and averaging window, so this is another advantage of the
coordinated mode over autonomous mode.
### 5.1.2 Implications on MTSI
Air interface delay adjustments made through RAN delay budget reporting impact
the end-to-end delay and quality performance of MTSI in TS 26.114.
### 5.1.3 Recommended Requirements
It is recommended that in MTSI it is specified how RAN delay budget reporting
can be used in order to improve end-to-end delay and quality performance.
It is recommended that suitable trigger conditions at the MTSI client are
specified in TS 26.114 to determine:
\- if UE should send _UEAssistanceInformation_ with delay budget report
information based on end-to-end metrics at the MTSI client, e.g., via suitable
packet loss ratio (PLR) (e.g., based on monitoring of RTP receive statistics)
or RTT thresholds (e.g., with RTT determined by using RTCP sender and receiver
reports),
\- what kind of values may be included in the _UEAssistanceInformation_
messages (as per Table 4.3.1) based on the available information at the MTSI
client. Such information includes end-to-end metrics at the MTSI client and
relevant application layer signalling received from the remote MTSI client or
network.
It is recommended that new formats are defined in TS 26.114 for real-time
signalling of delay budget information from an MTSI receiver to an MTSI sender
and vice versa during a multimedia telephony session, towards facilitating a
more coordinated and optimized use of the RAN delay budget reporting framework
in an end-to-end fashion.
### 5.1.4 Gap Analysis
MTSI as in TS 26.114 currently does not specify when and how the UEs should
use RAN-based delay adjustment mechanisms in an end-to-end fashion.
### 5.1.5 Potential Solutions
#### 5.1.5.1 Signaling Flows on RAN Delay Budget Reporting Usage in MTSI
The below signaling flows describe RAN delay budget reporting usage in MTSI
for voice for the autonomous and coordinated modes.
In Figure 5.1.5.1.1, a signaling flow for RAN delay budget reporting usage in
MTSI for the autonomous mode is presented. The \"Request\" message is a
generalized application level rate request message that corresponds to CMR or
RTCP-APP for voice.
Figure 5.1.5.1.1: Signaling flow on usage of RAN delay budget reporting in
MTSI in the autonomous mode
Step 1: UE-1 sends UE-2 rate request via CMR or RTCP-APP for voice at bitrate
R0.
Step 2: UE-2 sends RTP media flow for voice with bitrate R0.
Step 3: UE-1 detects good radio conditions locally, e.g., eNB-1 sends a DL
access network bitrate recommendation (ANBR) of bitrate R1 > R0 to UE-1, and
UE-1 measures low block error rate (BLER) over the local radio link based on
the monitoring of successful downlink packet transmissions, and it may also
measure downlink throughput over the radio air interface that is much higher
than the received bitrate (after accounting for the relevant headers). In the
meantime, UE-1 detects high packet losses after monitoring reception of RTP
packets (also by monitoring RTCP sender and receiver reports) and applying the
highest possible jitter buffer according to the reference Jitter Buffer
Management (JBM) in TS 26.114 (subject to the JBM compliance requirement of
MTSI). Hence, UE1 concludes that UE2\'s local radio conditions are poor.
Step 4: UE-1 sends a _UEAssistanceInformation_ message to eNB-1 with type-1 to
turn off CDRX. It is assumed that eNB-1 grants this request and turns off CDRX
for UE-1. Turning off cDRX is relevant only when PLR is high, which is the
conclusion of UE-1 in this example, as per Step 3. It should however be noted
that UE-1 can increase the JBM depth to compensate the delay for high jitter.
In this scenario, delay budget request from UE-1 to eNB-1 is not necessary and
_UEAssistanceInformation_ message may not be sent. Moreover, due to other
considerations, UE-1 may choose not to turn cDRX off, e.g., when saving
battery power is critical.
Step 5: UE-2 detects high packet losses on its uplink due to poor coverage
conditions, e.g., it may measure high BLER over its local radio link based on
the monitoring of successful uplink packet transmissions, e.g., by monitoring
the HARQ acknowledgements received. UE-2 requests additional delay budget from
eNB-2 in order to perform additional re-transmissions to increase the
reliability of its UL transmissions. When requesting this additional delay
budget, UE-2 may also consider end-to-end RTT measured based on RTCP reports.
It is assumed that eNB-2 grants this request. Because UE-1 has already turned
its cDRX off, it is unlikely that the JBM constraint at UE-1 will lead to
packet losses in response to the increase air interface delay over the RAN
corresponding to UE-2.
Step-6: UE-1 measures reduced end-to-end delay and jitter, and packet losses
are also reduced.
It should be noted that the actions of UE-1 in Steps 3-4 above and actions of
UE-2 in Step 5 above are completely independent and these are not necessarily
sequential, as there is no coordination between the two UEs for this
autonomous mode of operation.
In Figure 5.1.5.1.2, a signaling flow for RAN delay budget reporting usage in
MTSI for the coordinated mode is presented.
Figure 5.1.5.1.2: Signaling flow on usage of RAN delay budget reporting in
MTSI in the coordinated mode
Steps 1-4: Identical to the earlier signalling flow corresponding to the
autonomous mode
Step 5: If delay budget information signalling is supported between UE-1 and
UE-2, UE-1 sends an RTCP feedback (RTCP-FB) message to UE-2 indicating the
availability of additional delay budget due to cDRX being turned off. It
should be noted that an RTP header extension message may also be used instead
to indicate the availability of additional delay budget. Relevant details on
the potential signalling solutions for the coordinated mode to communicate
available delay budget information can be found in clause 5.1.5.2. A concrete
delay number may also be reported as part of the RTCP-FB message that
corresponds to the air interface delay reduction on UE-1\'s RAN after turning
off cDRX, which would essentially be now available for UE-2 to improve the
reliability of its uplink transmissions. The reported delay number may also be
determined considering UE1\'s JBM constraints and can be based on its
assessment of how much additional delay it can tolerate.
Step 6: UE-2 detects high packet losses on its uplink due to poor coverage
conditions. UE-2 requests additional delay budget from eNB-2 in order to
perform further re-transmissions to increase the reliability of its UL
transmissions. When requesting the additional delay budget from eNB-2, UE-2
may also consider the RTCP-FB message it received from UE-1 on the
availability of delay budget from UE-1\'s perspective. It is assumed that
eNB-2 grants this request.
Step-7: UE-1 measures reduced end-to-end delay and jitter, and packet losses
are also reduced.
In this example, the available delay budget may be computed by the UE-1 (MTSI
receiver) based on network delay, jitter, packet loss rate (PLR) and
potentially other parameters. It may also take into account constraints on JBM
(i.e., based on reference JBM in TS 26.114). In this respect, the following
observations can be made on the expected UE behaviour:
a) Allowing UE-2 to use more retransmission will increase the jitter. This may
potentially create more packets dropped at the JBM for UE-1.
b) On the other hand, more retransmission also allows UE-2 to reduce packet
losses in its RAN uplink and this means more end-to-end reliability. So there
is a fine balance here, while it would also be expected that the end-to-end
performance is limited by the high packet losses on the UL, and hence more
retransmissions will help improve the end-to-end quality and delay
performance.
c) UE-1 turning off cRDX will help to reduce end-to-end delay. In the
meantime, if UE-1 needs to save on battery power and it is critical that cDRX
is kept on for this purpose, then UE-1 may choose not to turn cDRX off. Even
with cDRX off, if UE-1 decides that it can tolerate any further delay or
jitter at its JBM, it may indicate this available delay budget via the RTCP-FB
or RTP header extension message.
d) It is up to UE-1 to signal any additional delay budget to UE-2. If UE-1
thinks that it is already close to its JBM constraint and cannot tolerate any
additional delay or jitter (as this would lead to more packets being dropped),
it may not signal additional delay availability to UE-2.
{width="6.497916666666667in" height="4.138194444444444in"}
Figure 5.1.5.1.3: Another signaling flow on usage of RAN delay budget
reporting in MTSI in the coordinated mode
The signaling flow in Figure 5.1.5.1.3 is identical to the one in Figure
5.1.5.1.2, except that there is another stage:
Stage 8: UE-1 still suffers from high packet losses and measures high end-to-
end delay and jitter. Thus UE-1 sends UE-2 rate request via CMR or RTCP-APP
for voice at bitrate R2 \< R0. Other kinds of adaptation may also be invoked,
for instance the use of application layer redundancy or transitioning to a
more robust codec mode based on the negotiated codecs (e.g., channel-aware
mode for EVS), in case the receiver side detects major packet loss but delay
and jitter are within desired bounds.
Figure 5.1.5.1.4: Signaling flow on usage of RAN delay budget reporting in
MTSI in the coordinated mode with bi-directional exchange of delay budget
information
The signalling flow in Figure 5.1.5.1.4 is a variant of the one in Figure
5.1.5.1.2, where UE-2 requests additional delay budget from UE-1 during the
media flow, e.g., via the use of an RTCP-FB message or an RTP header extension
message, after having detected poor radio conditions (e.g., high BLER) over
the local RAN. The presence of this request message may further inform UE-1
that the radio conditions on UE-2\'s side are poor (in addition to its own
detection, e.g., based on monitoring of RTP receive statistics). Another
benefit of the bi-directional exchange of delay budget information between the
two UEs is that this could help in identifying the scenario where the packet
losses are introduced by neither of the RANs of UE1 and UE2 (i.e., both UEs
enjoying good radio conditions) but rather by the network. In the meantime, it
should be noted that the dominant cause of packet losses is expected to be
from RAN impediments and the likelihood that the packet losses are caused by
the network is quite small.
Figure 5.1.5.1.5: Signaling flow on usage of RAN delay budget request in MTSI
in the coordinated mode with jitter buffer adjustment.
The signalling flow in Figure 5.1.5.1.5 is a case of jitter buffer adjustment
where UE-2 is suffering from poor network performance, e.g. under continuous
weak coverage. UE-2 requests additional delay budget from UE-1 during the
media flow, e.g., via the use of an RTCP-FB message or an RTP header extension
message, where a certain amount of expected extra delay is indicated. After
receiving the request, jitter buffer in UE-1 may be extended to allow the
sender to perform more uplink retransmissions and feedback to UE-2 how much
additional delay is available for the uplink retransmissions after jitter
buffer adjustment. When UE-2 detects radio performance improved, it could
notify UE-1 that it does not need an additional delay and then UE-1 can
shorten the jitter buffer.
#### 5.1.5.2 End-to-End Signaling of Delay Budget Information for Coordinated
Mode
While RAN-layer delay budget reporting allows UEs to locally adjust air
interface delay, such a mechanism does not provide coordination between the
UEs on an end-to-end basis. To alleviate this problem, the following RTP/RTCP
signaling may be defined to signal delay budget information across UEs:
1) A new RTCP feedback (FB) message type to carry available additional delay
budget information during the RTP streaming of media (signalled from the MTSI
receiver to the MTSI sender).
2) A new SDP parameter on the RTCP-based ability to signal available
additional delay budget information during the IMS/SIP based capability
negotiations.
3) A new RTP header extension type to carry query signal for available
additional delay budget information during the RTP streaming of media
(signalled from the MTSI sender to the MTSI receiver).
4) A new SDP parameter on the RTP-based ability to signal available additional
delay budget information during the IMS/SIP based capability negotiations.
RTCP feedback messages signalled from the MTSI receiver to the MTSI sender may
also carry available delay budget information for the reverse link, i.e., for
the sent RTP stream. In this case, the use of RTP header extension messages
may not be necessary.
RTP header extension messages signalled from the MTSI sender to the MTSI
receiver may also carry available delay budget information for the reverse
link, i.e., for the received RTP stream. In this case, the use of RTCP
feedback messages may not be necessary.
The signalling of available additional delay budget information may use RTCP
feedback messages as specified in IETF RFC 4585 [9]. As such, the RTCP
feedback message is sent from the MTSI receiver to the MTSI sender to convey
to the sender about the available additional delay budget information from the
perspective of the receiver. The recipient UE (MTSI sender) of the RTCP
feedback message may then use this information in determining how much delay
budget it may request from its eNB over the RAN interface, e.g. by using RRC
signalling based on _UEAssistanceInformation_.
The RTCP feedback message may be identified by PT (payload type) = PSFB (206)
which refers to payload-specific feedback message. FMT (feedback message type)
may be set to the value \'Y\' for available additional delay budget
information. The RTCP feedback method may involve signalling of available
additional delay budget information in both of the immediate feedback and
early RTCP modes.
The FCI (feedback control information) format can be as follows. The FCI may
contain exactly one instance of the available additional delay budget
information, composed of the following parameters (delay parameter is
mandatory but others are optional and may not be present):
\- Available additional delay budget delay - specified in milliseconds (16
bits)
\- Sign \'s\' for the additional delay budget delay and whether this is
positive or negative-- specified as a Boolean (1 bit) (optional parameter)
\- Query \'q\' for additional delay budget -- specified as a Boolean (1 bit)
(optional parameter)
The sign of the additional delay budget may be positive or negative.
Essentially, when the additional delay parameter takes a positive value, the
UE indicates that there is additional delay budget available. In case the
additional delay parameter takes a negative value, the UE indicates that the
delay budget has been reduced. As such a sequence of RTCP feedback messages
may be sent by the UE to report on the additional delay budget availability in
increments.
When the MTSI receiver sends RTCP feedback messages addressing the available
delay budget for the received RTP stream, the query parameter is not to be
included or is to be set to \'0\'. When query parameter is included and set to
\'1\', the purpose of the RTCP feedback message is to ask for additional delay
budget for the reverse link, i.e., for the sent RTP stream. This is an
alternate to the RTP header extension signalling method described below. This
signalling option however relies on the presence of a bi-directional link,
i.e., it would not work in case of sendonly or recvonly streams. When the
query bit is set to \'1\', the delay budget value delay may be interpreted as
the additional delay budget requested by the sender of the RTCP feedback
message (i.e., MTSI receiver) for the reverse link (i.e., sent RTP stream).
It should be noted that this FCI format is for illustration purposes, and
other formats can also be defined to convey available additional delay budget
information.
The FCI for the proposed RTCP feedback message can follow the following format
where (i) \'s\' stands for the single-bit message on the sign of the
additional delay parameter and (ii) without the query signal is not included:
0 1 2 3\ 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\ \| delay
\|s\| zero padding \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
The high byte may be followed by the low byte, where the low byte holds the
least significant bits.
The FCI for the RTCP feedback message with the query signal may be as follows
(\'q\' stands for the single-bit message on query):
0 1 2 3\ 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\ \| delay
\|s\|q\| zero padding \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
A 3GPP MTSI client (based on TS 26.114) supporting this RTCP feedback message
can offer such capability in the SDP for all media streams containing video /
audio. The offer can be made by including the a=rtcp-fb attribute in
conjunction with the following parameter: 3gpp-delay-budget. A wildcard
payload type (\"*\") may be used to indicate that the RTCP feedback attribute
applies to all payload types. Here is an example usage of this attribute:
a=rtcp-fb:* 3gpp-delay-budget
The ABNF for rtcp-fb-val corresponding to the feedback type \"3gpp-delay-
budget\"can be given as follows:
rtcp-fb-val =/ \"3gpp-delay-budget\"
In some settings, the query for requested additional delay budget information
may be signalled by the MTSI sender to the MTSI receiver as part of the
transmitted RTP stream using RTP header extensions. An example format is as
follows:
0 1 2 3\ 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\ \| ID \|
len=7 \|q\| zero_padding \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
In another example format is shown below, the query from the MTSI sender may
also contain the additional delay budget requested, as follows:
\- Requested additional delay budget delay - specified in milliseconds (16
bits)
\- Sign \'s\' for the additional delay budget delay and whether this is
positive or negative-- specified as a Boolean (1 bit) (optional parameter)
0 1 2 3\ 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\ \| ID \|
len=7 \|q\|s\| delay \|zero_padding\|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
When the MTSI sender signals RTP header extension messages addressing the
requested delay budget for the sent RTP stream, the query parameter is always
to be included and set to \'1\'. When query parameter is not included or set
to \'0\', the purpose of the RTP header extension message is to indicate the
available additional delay budget for the reverse link, i.e., for the received
RTP stream. This is an alternate to the RTCP feedback message signalling
method described above. This signalling option however relies on the presence
of a bi-directional link, i.e., it would not work in case of sendonly or
recvonly streams. When the query bit is omitted or set to \'0\', the delay
budget value delay may be interpreted as the available additional delay budget
indicated by the MTSI sender for the reverse link (i.e., received RTP stream).
A 3GPP MTSI client (based on TS 26.114) supporting this RTP header extension
message can offer such capability in the SDP for all media streams containing
video / audio. This capability can be offered by including the a=extmap
attribute indicating a dedicated URN under the relevant media line scope. The
URN corresponding to the capability to signal query for available additional
delay budget information is: urn:3gpp:delay-budget-query. Here is an example
usage of this URN in the SDP:
a=extmap:7 urn:3gpp:delay-budget-query
The number 7 in the example may be replaced with any number in the range 1-14.
#### 5.1.5.3 SDP-based Exchange of RAN Capabilities for Autonomous Mode
As observed in clause 5.1.1, a shortcoming of the autonomous mode is that
while the MTSI sender and MTSI receiver UEs may both be independently able to
adjust their air interface delays based on the information in their MTSI
clients, they are never aware of the capabilities or actions of the other UE.
One way to alleviate this issue may be for the MTSI sender and receiver UEs to
exchange RAN capability information during the SDP offer-answer negotiations.
As such, during SDP capability negotiation, each UE would include a
\'RANCapabilities\' attribute to describe its capabilities on delay budget
reporting. Other radio capabilities may also be indicated in the
\'RANCapabilities\' attribute, including RAN-assisted codec adaptation, TTI
bundling, RAN frame aggregation, etc.
After the SDP offer and answer exchange, each UE knows the other UE\'s radio
capabilities, and use this knowledge to determine its actions. For instance,
upon learning during the SDP exchange that the remote UE (say, MTSI sender)
supports delay budget reporting and TTI bundling, a local UE (MTSI receiver)
may decide to turn off cDRX when it detects good radio conditions locally, but
high packet loss on an end-to-end basis after monitoring RTP reception
statistics. But if the remote UE (MTSI sender) does not support delay budget
reporting as indicated in the SDP \'RANCapabilities\' attribute, then the
local UE (MTSI receiver) may decide not to turn off cDRX, since even if it
did, the remote UE will not be able to make use of the additional delay
budget.
In addition to indicating whether various RAN capabilities are supported, the
\'RANCapabilities\' attribute may also contain parameters that describe
specific RAN configurations (e.g., that may be configured by the UE\'s local
eNB) in the UE that may be relevant in influencing the remote UE\'s adaptation
and impact the end to end quality of the VoLTE call.
# 6 End-to-End Performance Evaluation Results
## 6.1 Evaluation Methodology
### 6.1.1 Performance Metrics
\- End-to-end delay and jitter, i.e., at RTP level, excluding JBM impacts.
\- End-to-end delay and jitter, i.e., at RTP level, including impact when
using reference JBMs for EVS and AMR-WB.
\- Packet loss statistics, with considerations on both per-link (DL/UL) and
end-to-end packet loss ratio (PLR).
\- Voice quality in terms of POLQA.
### 6.1.2 Codec Configurations
\- EVS WB 7.2kbps
\- EVS WB 9.6kbps
\- EVS WB 13.2kbps
\- EVS WB-CA 13.2kbps
\- EVS SWB 13.2kbps
\- EVS SWB-CA 13.2kbps
\- EVS SWB 24.4kbps
\- AMR-WB 12.65 kbps
### 6.1.3 RAN Configurations
For DL or good coverage UE (UE1):
\- cDRX on/off (for DL / good coverage UE), DRX cycle length (if on): 40ms.
OnDurationTimer and InactivityTimer are also to be specified (e.g., 4ms for
both).
For UL or poor coverage UE (UE2):
\- Initial BLER Values (for poor coverage UE): 0.4 - 0.95
\- HARQ, number of retransmissions 0-6, RTT values 8, 16, [24], [32], 48, 64ms
\- Rel-12 TTI bundling, Rel-14 PUSCH enhancement bundle sizes 4, 8, 12, 16,
24, 32
\- RAN-level frame aggregation, of length = 20 ms, 40 ms, 60 ms, 80 ms
\- Residual BLER (after retransmissions) range: 1% - 10%
### 6.1.4 Application Layer Considerations
\- Application layer frame aggregation
\- Application layer redundancy
### 6.1.5 Test Scenarios
Scenario 1:
\- Good DL coverage for receiving UE (UE1)
\- Poor UL coverage for sending UE (UE2)
Table 6.1.5.1: Set of Relevant RAN Configurations for Scenario 1
* * *
# UE2 (poor coverage) UE1 (good coverage)
       RAN-level frame aggregation   iBLER                 HARQ retr.   HARQ RTT\   TTI bundle size   DRX cycle\   rBLER
                                                                        \[ms\]                        \[ms\]
1 1 0.4 4 8 1 0 0
2 2 0.4 4 8 1 0 0
3 1 0.4 2 8 1 40 0
4 2 0.4 2 8 1 0 0
5 1 0.4 4 8 1 40 0
6 2 0.4 4 8 1 40 0
7 1 0.4 2 8 1 0 0
8 2 0.4 2 8 1 40 0
9 2 0.4 0 16 4 0 0
10 2 0.4 0 16 4 40 0
11 1 0.8 2 16 4 0 0
12 1 0.8 4 16 4 0 0
13 1 0.8 2 16 4 40 0
14 1 0.8 4 16 4 40 0
15 2 0.8 2 16 4 0 0
16 2 0.8 4 16 4 0 0
17 2 0.8 2 16 4 40 0
18 2 0.8 4 16 4 40 0
19 2 0.9 6 16 4 0 0
20 2 0.9 6 16 4 40 0
21 2 0.89 4 16 8 0 0
22 2 0.89 4 16 8 40 0
23 3 0.91 1 48 24 0 0
24 3 0.91 1 48 24 40 0
25 4 0.93 1 64 32 0 0
26 4 0.93 1 64 32 40 0
* * *
### 6.1.6 Power Consumption Considerations
It is desirable to ensure that the overall power consumption of the UE does
not increase drastically when UE keeps cDRX off for more percentage of time,
i.e., when attempting to provide additional delay budget for a remote UE in
poor coverage. So, further evaluations on overall power consumption, i.e.,
when changing the cDRX configuration are necessary. In particular, it will be
useful to quantify how likely a good coverage UE may need to turn off cDRX
when paired with a poor coverage UE on the remote end in an MTSI session in
order to improve end-to-end quality and how much additional overall battery
power consumption results in consequence.
A power consumption analysis requires consideration of a certain adaptation
logic in the UE to decide when to switch between cDRX on/off. As such,
simulating the fixed set modes in Table 6.1 individually (which is sufficient
for obtaining the performance metrics in clause 6.1.1) is not sufficient for
the power consumption analysis and additional considerations are needed. There
may be multiple possibilities here on when cRDX should be turned off, e.g., it
could be for only for the lowest bitrate, or it could be at an intermediate
bitrate, etc. Such variety of algorithms need to be determined and documented
as part of the power consumption analysis.
### 6.1.7 eNB Implementation Considerations
It is important to recognize that end-to-end performance characterization in
terms of delay and jitter can be dependent on the eNB implementation (e.g.,
scheduler, reaction and reaction time to request messages). Interpretation of
any results and conclusions drawn from these should factor in variations in
eNB implementations.
Such considerations can include the following:
\- Reaction time of the eNB to requests from the UE are to be considered
(e.g., minimum of 100ms processing time + accounting for pre-emption by more
critical eNB processing such as handovers).
\- How the eNB reacts to requests from the UE can be modeled (e.g., what if
the eNB does not change the cDRX configuration?)
In the meantime, it should be understood that modeling of the eNB is an
implementation specific issue, so the purpose of this evaluation is simply to
demonstrate that the end to end delay budget adjustments can deliver
performance enhancements for a wide range of possible eNB behaviors based upon
its processing capabilities and corresponding delays.
### 6.1.8 Mobility Considerations
Dynamics of the system can be properly modeled to account for changes in the
E2E delay and the frequency of adaptation signalling, i.e., a system-level
simulation with mobility may be used.
## 6.2 Performance Results for Technical Aspect 1: End-to-End Delay and
Quality Enhancements with RAN Delay Budget Reporting
This clause presents the performance results on Technical Aspect 1 that was
introduced in Clause 5.1, namely end-to-end delay and quality enhancements
with RAN delay budget reporting.
Based on the evaluation methodology described in clause 6.1, Tables 6.2.1 and
6.2.2 present the delay, jitter and PLR statistics at RTP level as well as
POLQA scores and end-to-end delay (after JBM operation) for the 26 relevant
RAN configurations listed in Table 6.1, considering the EVS WB 13.2 kbps and
EVS WB-CA 13.2 kbps, respectively. The additional aspects on the test
methodology toward obtaining these results are as follows. Four sentence pairs
from P.501 Annex D were concatenated 7 times to form a 182 sec test sequence.
This audio signal was encoded using 3GPP reference encoder in TS 26.442. The
encoded packets were impaired using the delay profiles based on the test
scenarios listed in Table 6.1. The impaired bitstream was then decoded using
3GPP reference decoder and JBM in TS 26.442 to obtain a decoded signal. The
decoded waveform was then split for each sentence pair and the POLQA scores
and delay values were computed. The POLQA scores and delay values were then
averaged among these 28 sentences pairs. The RTP-level statistics were
obtained by analysing the delay profiles generated by the network simulator.
Table 6.2.1: Delay and jitter statistics and POLQA scores for the 26 relevant
RAN configurations listed in Table 6.1 for EVS WB 13.2 kbps
* * *
Mode# POLQA Score Mean End-to-End Delay (ms) Mean RTP-level Delay (ms) RTP-
level Jitter (ms) RTP-level PLR (%) 1 4.05 242 154 10 1.2 2 3.86 248 164 21
1.2 3 3.2 275 191 20 6.6 4 3.05 241 163 21 6.4 5 3.95 281 193 23 1.2 6 3.86
291 206 22 1.2 7 3.19 221 153 8 6.6 8 3.04 266 204 20 6.4 9 3.63 221 160 20
2.6 10 3.62 266 204 20 2.6 11 3.24 246 158 16 6.9 12 4.15 266 161 22 1.1 13
3.25 285 199 23 6.9 14 3.99 306 202 29 1.1 15 3.08 262 168 23 7 16 4 276 171
25 1.1 17 3.09 306 208 24 7 18 3.93 321 211 26 1.1 19 3.2 310 185 33 5.5 20
3.22 352 226 35 5.5 21 4.06 276 172 25 1 22 3.83 321 212 26 1 23 3.99 295 181
31 0.9 24 3.89 336 225 33 0.9 25 3.89 325 195 37 0.9 26 3.82 371 236 39 0.9
* * *
Table 6.2.2: Delay and jitter statistics and POLQA scores for the 26 relevant
RAN configurations listed in Table 6.1 for EVS WB-CA 13.2 kbps
* * *
Mode# POLQA Score Mean End-to-End Delay (ms) Mean RTP-level Delay (ms) RTP-
level Jitter (ms) RTP-level PLR (%) 1 4.04 241 154 10 1.2 2 3.97 248 164 21
1.2 3 3.61 278 191 20 6.6 4 3.71 241 163 21 6.4 5 3.99 281 193 23 1.2 6 3.9
292 206 22 1.2 7 3.68 221 153 8 6.6 8 3.64 280 204 20 6.4 9 3.92 240 160 20
2.6 10 3.79 279 204 20 2.6 11 3.59 246 158 16 6.9 12 4.07 248 161 22 1.1 13
3.5 289 199 23 6.9 14 3.95 306 202 29 1.1 15 3.62 262 168 23 7 16 4.09 268 171
25 1.1 17 3.57 307 208 24 7 18 3.92 321 211 26 1.1 19 3.71 311 185 33 5.5 20
3.6 356 226 35 5.5 21 4.08 274 172 25 1 22 3.89 321 212 26 1 23 4.06 289 181
31 0.9 24 3.95 334 225 33 0.9 25 3.94 322 195 37 0.9 26 3.89 366 236 39 0.9
* * *
From the data, the following can be observed for the autonomous mode of
operation described in clause 5.1:
1) Turning off cDRX on downlink does help reduce end-to-end delay, e.g., as
seen by comparing the end-to-end performance results in Tables 6.2.1 and 6.2.2
for modes 3 and 7, and those for modes 4 and 8.
2) Ability to perform more UL retransmissions by the sending UE at poor
coverage provides significant improvement in PLR performance, which also helps
increase POLQA scores, e.g., as seen by comparing the end-to-end performance
results in Tables 6.2.1 and 6.2.2 for modes 3 and 5, and those for modes 1 and
7.
3) Turning off cDRX on its own does not yield PLR and POLQA performance
improvements. The PLR reduction and consequent POLQA gains come from the
additional retransmissions or other kinds of robustness mechanisms employed by
the MTSI sender. Turning off cDRX purely helps create the additional delay
budget for using such robustness enhancement mechanisms.
It can be concluded that even for the autonomous mode of operation where the
UEs independently perform delay budget reporting without any coordination, it
is possible to realize significant gains in end-to-end delay and quality
performance. However, it should be noted that the use of autonomous mode has
certain shortcomings, as described in clause 5.1.
For the coordinated mode of operation described in clause 5.1, the right
comparison to make when turning off CRDX on downlink is to consider a higher
reliability scheme on UL that takes advantage of this additional delay budget,
signalled from the MTSI receiver to the MTSI sender. For example, if cDRX is
turned off for downlink, up to 40ms of additional delay budget would be
available for uplink and signalled to the MTSI sender, and this could be used
for additional uplink retransmissions. Accordingly, the relevant data points
to compare would be as follows:
1) Turning off DL CDRX enables 4 retransmissions on UL, where originally there
were 2 retransmissions with cDRX on, as seen by comparing the end-to-end
performance results in Tables 6.2.1 and 6.2.2 for modes 1 and 3, those for
modes 2 and 8, those for modes 12 and 13, and those for modes 16 and 17.
2) Turning off DL CDRX enables 4 retransmissions on UL, where originally there
were 0 retransmissions with cRDX on, as seen by comparing the end-to-end
performance results in Tables 6.2.1 and 6.2.2 for modes 2 and 10.
It can be concluded that one can not only see the end to end performance
enhancement in terms of PLR and delay reduction, but also in terms of POLQA
scores that results from the availability of additional delay budget for the
uplink.
In order to assess the implications on power consumption considered in clause
6.1.6, the coverage analysis presented in clause 8.2.2.4 of TR 26.959 [10]
(and associated Figure 8.2.2 of TR 26.959 [10]) may be used. In particular,
this coverage analysis is based on the IMT-Advanced evaluation methodology
[11] for the various UEs experiencing PLRs in the range of 1%-10%, at mobility
levels 3 km/h (UMa), 30 km/h (UMa) and 120 km/h (RMa), and shows that on
average 96.3% of the UEs experience 0% PLR, 2.1% of the UEs experience PLRs in
the range of 0-10% and 1.6% of the UEs experience PLRs above 10%. The analysis
also indicates that the same coverage conditions on average will persist in
the order of several seconds considering all three mobility levels, i.e.,
speeds of 3 km/h and 30 km/h for the Urban Macrocell (UMa) and 120 km/h for
the Rural Macrocell (RMa) deployment models. From this data, it can be
inferred that roughly 2.1% of the UEs experiencing poor coverage would need to
rely on additional delay budget to improve end-to-end quality (for the other
1.6% experiencing PLRs above 10%, it is assumed that SRVCC handover would have
to be triggered) and assuming that all of these poor coverage UEs are paired
up with good coverage UEs (likely outcome considering that 96.3% of the UEs
are in good coverage), only a small percentage, i.e., 2.1% of the good
coverage UEs would have to turn their cDRX off in order to provide additional
delay budget for poor coverage UEs. In other words, there would be no power
consumption impact of the above mentioned cDRX deactivation for 98% of the UE
population at any given time. And for those 2% of the UEs that are impacted,
even if the instantaneous power penalty can be large when CDRX is disabled,
the overall average battery drain remains low considering the low probably of
occurrence, i.e., on the average only 2% of call time will suffer the power
penalty from CDRX being disabled. This seems like a small price to pay for the
potential returns in terms of end-to-end quality improvements and possible
avoidance of an SRVCC handover.
Moreover, there may be further factors such as the following in effect, which
may mean even less than 2% of the UEs are impacted with the additional power
consumption due to turning cDRX off:
\- Turning off cDRX is not the only way to allow additional budget for
retransmission. The JBM of the UE in good coverage could decide to extend the
JBM depth to accomodate the extra jitter. As such, when the UE believes that
it can tolerate any further delay or jitter at its JBM, this can open up
additional delay budget for the remote UE to perform additional
retransmissions. If the good coverage UE makes such a choice, it will not
suffer any power penalty as the additional delay budget is created without
turning cDRX off. The good coverage UE can still use the RAN delay budget
reporting to indicate that it can absorb additional jitter and it may also use
the RTP/RTCP signalling in the coordinated mode to inform the remote UE on the
additional delay budget.
\- The UEs agree on using (or prioritizing) other adaptation mechanisms prior
to applying the delay budget adjustments, e.g., rate adaptation, application
layer redundancy or transitioning to a more robust codec mode based on the
negotiated codecs (e.g., channel-aware mode for EVS), and such adaptation
mechanisms may help to sufficiently improve end-to-end quality. As such, the
use of delay budget adjustments may be used as the last resort option, only if
other adaptation mechanisms are unable to provide sufficiently good end-to-end
quality.
\- The good coverage UE may initially ask its cDRX be turned off, but the
retransmissions performed by the (remote) poor coverage UE with the additional
delay budget provided may still not help the end-to-end performance to
sufficiently improve, and thus SRVCC handover may have to be triggered anyway.
If that happens, good coverage UE would ask that its cDRX is turned back on,
toward minimizing the incurred power penalty.
\- If good coverage UE is close to running out of battery, UE may opt out of
offering additional delay budget by cDRX deactivation.
In regards to eNB implementation considerations, as indicated by the above
cited analysis in TR 26.959, same coverage conditions on average will persist
in the order of several seconds considering all three mobility levels, i.e.,
speeds of 3 km/h and 30 km/h for the Urban Macrocell (UMa) and 120 km/h for
the Rural Macrocell (RMa) deployment models. If the UEs are static, such
coverage conditions tend to persist for a longer time, i.e., potentially for
the entire duration of the MTSI voice session. This means that eNB processing
delays in the order of \~100ms will have negligible impact on the potential
end-to-end performance benefits to be extracted out of delay budget
adaptation, such that the performance gains in terms of quality and
reliability should persist for at least several seconds in all mobility
conditions and for even longer periods for static UEs.
# 7 Conclusions
The present document investigated several MTSI enhancements relevant to the
media handling aspects of RAN delay budget reporting. In particular, toward
developing an end-to-end operational perspective for the MTSI sender and MTSI
receiver, two modes were studied in clause 5.1, namely autonomous and
coordinated modes, and corresponding potential solutions were described in
clause 5.1.5. End-to-end performance evaluation results were documented in
clause 6, demonstrating that RAN delay budget reporting can allow air
interface delay adjustments at MTSI sender and/or MTSI receiver, so that the
end-to-end delay and quality performance can be enhanced.
Based on the findings of the present document, it is recommended to conduct
normative work toward specifying the following functionality in TS 26.114:
1) Recommendations on when and how the UEs in an MTSI session should use RAN-
based delay adjustment mechanisms in an end-to-end fashion also accounting
other factors such as local radio conditions, various RAN capabilities and
configurations, jitter buffer considerations, and UE battery constraints,
considering the signalling flows described in clause 5.1.5.1 and analysis in
clause 6.2 of the present document.
2) Recommendations on when and how the various kinds of end-to-end quality
metrics and other relevant information in the MTSI client could be used to
trigger RAN delay budget reporting, considering the signalling flows described
in clause 5.1.5.1 and analysis in clause 6.2 of the present document.
3) SDP-based exchange of RAN capabilities in regards to delay budget
reporting, considering the potential solutions described in clause 5.1.5.3.
4) RTP/RTCP-based indication of available additional delay budget and
requested delay budget information, considering the potential solutions as per
clause 5.1.5.2.
#