# Foreword
This Technical report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document studies media handling aspects of 5G conversational
services, focusing on Multimedia Telephony Service over IMS (MTSI) in TS
26.114 [4] and IMS-based Telepresence Service in TS 26.223 [5]. Various
technical aspects including speech codes, video codecs, media rate adaptation,
virtual reality (VR) support and new radio (NR) considerations are addressed,
and related gap analysis and potential solutions are documented.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides a study on the media handling aspects of
conversational services in 5G, taking as baseline the Stage-1 requirements
developed in TS 22.261 [2], as well as the Stage-2 architecture for 5G systems
developed in TS 23.501 [3]. This includes the investigation of the following
areas:
\- Media handling aspects of the 5G system architecture in relation to 3GPP
conversational services, e.g., Multimedia Telephony Service over IMS (MTSI) in
TS 26.114 [4] and IMS-based Telepresence Service in TS 26.223 [5].
\- Relevance and potential reuse of components in existing 3GPP conversational
services (e.g., MTSI, IMS-based telepresence, etc.) in the context of 5G
systems and related Stage-2 architecture, e.g., use of MTSI features for
supporting voice and video calls, use of MTSI, MS-MTSI and IMS-telepresence
features for supporting multi-party conferencing, and applicability of
existing QoE monitoring and QoS handling mechanisms.
\- Potential enhancements to existing 3GPP conversational services (e.g.,
MTSI, IMS-based telepresence, etc.) towards better fulfilling the Stage-1
requirements in TS 22.261, e.g., in terms of criteria such as latency and
bandwidth efficiency, while also taking into consideration the Stage-2
architecture for 5G systems:
\- In case existing codecs are unable to address 5G application requirements,
new media codec requirements for 3GPP conversational services may be
developed.
\- The need for, and potential use of, new QoS media handling mechanisms in 5G
systems such as traffic classification and codec-aware network elements in the
context of 3GPP conversational services.
The gap analysis of the above areas and associated recommendations and
conclusions for the proposed improvements are documented in the present
document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service Requirements for Next Generation New Services
and Markets; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia telephony;
Media handling and interaction\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.223: \"Telepresence using the IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS);
Media handling and interaction\".
[6] 3GPP TR 23.799: \"Study on Architecture for Next Generation System\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.503: \"Policy and Charging Control Framework for the 5G
System\".
[9] 3GPP TR 26.918: \"Virtual Reality (VR) media services over 3GPP\".
[10] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; NR and NG-RAN Overall Description\".
[11] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
Specification\".
[12] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol specification\".
[13] 3GPP TR 26.910: \"Study on Media Handling Aspects of RAN Delay Budget
Reporting in MTSI\".
[14] 3GPP TR 26.959: \"Study on enhanced Voice over LTE (VoLTE) performance\".
[15] ISO/IEC 23008-2: \"Information technology -- High efficiency coding and
media delivery in heterogeneous environments -- Part 2: High efficiency video
coding\".
[16] ISO/IEC 23090-2: \" Information technology -- Coded representation of
immersive media -- Part 2: Omnidirectional media format\".
[17] 3GPP TS 26.118: \"3GPP Virtual reality profiles for streaming
applications\".
[18] IETF RFC 7798 (2016): \"RTP Payload Format for High Efficiency Video
Coding (HEVC)\", Y.-K. Wang, Y. Sanchez, T. Schierl, S. Wenger, M. M.
Hannuksela.
[19] 3GPP TS 26.238: \"Uplink Streaming\".
[20] 3GPP TS 38.306: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities\".
[21] 3GPP TS 38.321: \"NR; Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol
specification\".
[22] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; NR and NG-RAN Overall Description; Stage 2\".
[23] WebRTC 1.0: \"Real-time Communication Between Browsers\", W3C Candidate
Recommendation, 27 September 2018, https://www.w3.org/TR/2018/CR-
webrtc-20180927/
[24] IETF Internet Draft draft-ietf-rtcweb-data-channel-13 (2015): \"WebRTC
Data Channel\", https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-rtcweb-data-channel-13,
WORK IN PROGRESS.
[25] IETF RFC 4566 (2006), \"SDP: Session Description Protocol\".
[26] IETF Internet Draft draft-ietf-mmusic-data-channel-sdpneg-28 (2019):
\"SDP-based Data Channel Negotiation\", https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-
ietf-mmusic-data-channel-sdpneg-28, WORK IN PROGRESS.
[27] Node.js, Node.js Foundation, https://nodejs.org/
[28] IETF RFC 4975 (2007), \"The Message Session Relay Protocol (MRSP) \"
[29] 3GPP TS 24.247: \"Messaging service using the IP Multimedia (IM) Core
Network (CN) subsystem\".
[30] IETF Internet Draft draft-ietf-mmusic-msrp-usage-data-channel-12 (2019),
\"MSRP over Data Channels\", https://tools.ietf.org/html/ draft-ietf-mmusic-
msrp-usage-data-channel-12, WORK IN PROGRESS.
[31] 3GPP TS 24.371: \"WebRTC access to the IMS; Stage 3; Protocol
specification\".
# 3 Definitions and Abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5GC 5G Core
AF Application Function
AMF Access and Mobility Management Function
AN Access Network
ANBR Access Network Bitrate Recommendation
AS Application Server
CMR Codec Mode Request
CN Core Network
CP Control Plane
ECN Explicit Congestion Notification
IBCF Interconnection Border Control Function
KPI Key Performance Indicator
MRFC Media Resource Function Controller
MRFP Media Resource Function Processor
MTSI Multimedia Telephony Service over IMS
MS-MTSI Multi-Stream MTSI
NEF Network Exposure Function
NR New Radio
NRF Network Repository Function
OMAF Omnidirectional MediA Format
PCF Policy Control Function
QoE Quality of Experience
SA Standalone
SEI Supplemental Enhancement Information
SMF Session Management Function
SRVCC Single Radio Voice Call Continuity
TMMBN Temporary Maximum Media Stream Bit Rate Notification
TMMBR Temporary Maximum Media Stream Bit Rate Request
TrGW Transition Gateway
UDM Unified Data Management
UDR Unified Data Repository
UL Up-link
UP User Plane
UPF User Plane Function
VoLTE Voice over LTE
VoNR Voice over NR
# 4 5G System Overview
## 4.1 Introduction
This clause provides the background on 5G system requirements and
architecture. Clause 4.2 describes the 5G Stage-1 Requirements. Clause 4.3
describes 5G Stage-2 architecture.
## 4.2 Stage-1 Requirements
TS 22.261 [2] developed by SA1 compiles service and operational requirements
that define a 5G system. The 5G system is characterised, for example, by:
\- Support for multiple access technologies
\- Scalable and customizable network
\- Advanced Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) (e.g., availability, latency,
reliability, user experienced data rates, area traffic capacity)
\- Flexibility and programmability (e.g., network slicing, diverse mobility
management, Network Function Virtualization)
\- Resource efficiency (both user plane and control plane)
\- Seamless mobility in densely populated and heterogeneous environment
\- Extreme long range coverage in low density areas
\- Markets requiring minimal service levels with minimal user experience
requirements around performance metrics such as bitrate, latency and coverage
\- Support for real time and non-real time multimedia services and
applications with advanced Quality of Experience (QoE), including services
such as telepresence, virtual presence and telemedicine support
Many of the considered 5G system-related use cases and associated requirements
in TS 22.261 relate to multimedia delivery, processing and storage.
## 4.3 Stage-2 System Architecture
In order to address the Stage-2 architectural aspects of 5G systems, SA2 has
completed normative work \"**5G System - Phase 1\",** defined to support data
connectivity and services enabling deployments to use techniques such as e.g.
Network Function Virtualization and Software Defined Networking. For this
purpose, the specification TS 23.501 [3] was developed, based on the
conclusions of the Rel-14 study item FS_NextGen and related TR 23.799 [6].
TS 23.501 covers the 5G System architecture that is defined to support data
connectivity and services enabling deployments to use techniques such as
Network Function Virtualization and Software Defined Networking. The 5G System
architecture leverages service-based interactions between Control Plane (CP)
Network Functions where identified. Some key principles and concept are to:
\- Separate the User Plane (UP) functions from the Control Plane (CP)
functions, allowing independent scalability, evolution and flexible
deployments, e.g. at a centralized location or distributed (remote) locations.
\- Modularize the function design, e.g. to enable flexible and efficient
network slicing.
\- Wherever applicable, define procedures (i.e. the set of interactions
between network functions) as services, so that their re-use is possible.
\- Enable each Network Function to interact with other NF directly if
required. The architecture does not preclude the use of an intermediate
function to help route Control Plane messages (e.g. like a DRA).
\- Minimize dependencies between the Access Network (AN) and the Core Network
(CN). The architecture is defined with a converged core network with a common
AN - CN interface which integrates different 3GPP and non-3GPP access types.
\- Support a unified authentication framework.
\- Support \"stateless\" NFs, where the \"compute\" resource is decoupled from
the \"storage\" resource.
\- Support capability exposure.
\- Support concurrent access to local and centralized services. To support low
latency services and access to local data networks, UP functions can be
deployed close to the Access Network.
\- Support roaming with both Home routed traffic as well as Local breakout
traffic in the visited PLMN.
The 5G architecture is defined as service-based and the interaction between
network functions is represented in two ways.
\- A service-based representation, where network functions (e.g. AMF) within
the Control Plane enables other authorized network functions to access their
services. This representation also includes point-to-point reference points
where necessary.
\- A reference point representation, which shows the interaction between the
NF services in the network functions described by point-to-point reference
point (e.g. N11) between any two network functions (e.g. AMF and SMF).
Figure 4.3.1 depicts the non-roaming reference architecture. Service-based
interfaces are used within the Control Plane.
Figure 4.3.1: 5G System architecture
Figure 4.3.2 depicts the 5G System architecture in the non-roaming case, using
the reference point representation showing how various network functions
interact with each other.
Figure 4.3.2: Non-Roaming 5G System Architecture in reference point
representation
The 5G System architecture consists of the following network functions (NF):
\- Application Function (AF) interacts with the 3GPP Core Network in order to
provide services, for example to support the following functionalities:
Application influence on traffic routing, accessing Network Exposure Function,
interacting with the Policy framework for policy control.
\- Access and Mobility Management function (AMF) includes the following
functionalities: Mobility management, connection management, lawful intercept,
transparent proxy, access authentication and authorization.
\- Session Management Function (SMF) includes the following functionalities:
Session establishment, modification and release, selection and control of UP
function, UE IP address allocation and management, traffic steering
configuration at UPF, control part of policy enforcement and QoS, charging
data collection.
\- User Plane Function (UPF) includes the following functionalities: Packet
routing & forwarding, packet inspection, user plane part of policy rule
enforcement, lawful intercept (UP collection), traffic usage reporting,
external PDU session point of interconnect to data network.
\- Policy Control Function (PCF) includes the following functionalities:
Providing policy rules to control plane functions to enforce them, serving as
a front end to access subscription information relevant for policy decisions.
\- Network Exposure Function (NEF) includes the following functionality:
Providing means to securely expose the services and capabilities of the 3GPP
network to third parties, including application functions and edge computing.
\- Network Repository Function (NRF) includes the following functionalities:
Support of service discovery, maintaining NF profile of available NF instances
and providing information of the discovered NF instances.
\- Unified Data Management (UDM) includes the following functionalities: 3GPP
AKA Authentication Credential Processing, User Identification Handling, Access
Authorization, Registration/Mobility management, Subscription management, SMS
management.
\- Unified Data Repository (UDR) includes the following functionalities:
Storage and retrieval of subscription data by the UDM, storage and retrieval
of policy data by the PCF, storage and retrieval of application data
(including packet flow descriptions) by the NEF.
# 5 Impacts of 5G Stage-1 Requirements on 3GPP Conversational Services
## 5.1 Technical Aspect 1: Efficient Speech User Plane
### 5.1.1 Description
Clause 6.1 of TS 22.261 [2] requires an efficient 5G user plane. While the
requirement text focuses on efficient user plane routing, user plane
\"efficiency\" in the sense of achieved media quality per transmitted bit
should also be in scope.
### 5.1.2 Implications on MTSI
Current MTSI speech does not mandate use of the most bit-efficient and highest
quality speech, but leaves it optional. To better meet 5G requirements, the
most bit-efficient, highest quality speech should be made mandatory.
### 5.1.3 Implications on IMS-based Telepresence
Current IMS-based Telepresence already mandates use of the most bit-efficient
and highest quality speech, so there is no foreseen impact from this aspect.
### 5.1.4 Recommended Requirements
It is recommended that 5G MTSI UE support for AMR and AMR-WB codecs is
mandated, so as to minimize transcoding needs.
It is also recommended that the level of support for EVS and SWB operation be
developed.
### 5.1.5 Gap Analysis
In current MTSI, super-wideband speech support is optional, and the most bit-
efficient wideband and narrowband codecs are optional.
### 5.1.6 Potential Solutions
A solution is to mandate for MTSI clients in terminals offering speech
communication to support narrowband, wideband and super-wideband
communication.
## 5.2 Technical Aspect 2: Efficient Video User Plane
### 5.2.1 Description
Clause 6.1 of TS 22.261 [2] requires an efficient 5G user plane. While the
requirement text focuses on efficient user plane routing, user plane
\"efficiency\" in the sense of achieved media quality per transmitted bit
should also be in scope.
### 5.2.2 Implications on MTSI
Currently, it is not mandated for video-capable MTSI endpoints to use the most
bit-efficient and highest quality video, but it is left as optional. To better
meet 5G requirements, it should be mandatory for video-capable 5G MTSI
endpoints to use the most bit-efficient, highest quality video.
### 5.2.3 Implications on IMS-based Telepresence
Currently, it is not mandated for video-capable IMS-based Telepresence
endpoints to use the most bit-efficient and highest quality video, but it is
left as optional. To better meet 5G requirements, it should be mandatory for
video-capable 5G IMS-based Telepresence endpoints to use the most bit-
efficient, highest quality video.
### 5.2.4 Recommended Requirements
It is recommended that support for H.265/HEVC (with the levels and profiles
currently recommended respectively in TS 26.114 and TS 26.223) is mandated for
video-capable 5G MTSI and IMS Telepresence clients in terminals.
In addition, it is recommended that 5G MTSI UEs support H.264 (AVC)
constrained baseline profile level 1.2, and that 5G IMS Telepresence UEs
support H.264 (AVC) constrained high profile level 3.1 and H.264 (AVC)
constrained baseline profile level 1.2, as currently specified in TS 26.114
and TS 26.223, as to minimize transcoding needs.
### 5.2.5 Gap Analysis
Currently, H.265/HEVC support is optional for MTSI and IMS Telepresence
endpoints.
### 5.2.6 Potential Solutions
A solution to achieve support for the most bitrate-efficient and highest
quality video in 5G MTSI, is to mandate support in video-capable endpoints for
the, currently optional, H.265/HEVC Main Profile, Main Tier, Level 3.1.
A solution to achieve support for the most bitrate-efficient and highest
quality video in 5G Telepresence, is to mandate support in video-capable
endpoints for the, currently optional, H.265/HEVC Main Profile, Main Tier,
Level 4.1.
## 5.3 Technical Aspect 3: Media Rate Adaptation
### 5.3.1 Description
Clause 6.16 of TS 22.261 [2] requires handling markets requiring minimal
service levels. Interoperability between such markets and other markets
without such minimal service levels would be improved if the higher service
level markets are capable to automatically adapt to the lower service level.
Clause 6.17 of TS 22.261 [2] requires handling extreme long range coverage in
low density areas. It can be assumed that extreme long range coverage would
also mean use of very low media bitrates, as well as dynamically removing or
adding entire media components, when passing some minimum bitrate threshold
for inclusion of that media component in the session. Transcoding-free
interoperability between UE camping in low density area and UE in other areas
without such major bitrate limits would be improved if UE without bitrate
limitations are capable to automatically and dynamically adapt to the UE
having such limitation.
Clause 7.1 of TS 22.261 [2] requires handling high data rates and traffic
densities. Seen from a media perspective for an individual UE, handling high
data rates allows using high media bitrates. On the other hand, handling high
traffic densities can mean that the same, individual UE gets allotted a fairly
low media bitrate. Since traffic density as well as general radio conditions
can be expected to vary over time, the available media bitrate can in general
also be expected to vary over time, even during a single call. Meeting those
requirements will be easier if the UE has the capability to automatically and
dynamically adapt its sending bitrate to match available bitrate on the local
uplink, and assist the remote media sender to match available bitrate on the
local downlink. End-to-end transcoding-free operation is enabled by
dynamically adapting sending bitrate to the minimum of the total end-to-end
media path, including local uplink and remote downlink.
Clause 7.2 of TS 22.261 [2] requires handling low latency and high
reliability. Seen from a media perspective for an individual UE, a key part of
keeping low media latency and high reliability is to, at any point in time,
avoid sending higher media bitrate than what the end-to-end media path can
currently support. Such media bitrate is assumedly always lower than the
maximum allowed, negotiated bandwidth, but there can also be more dynamically
varying limitations that are lower than that negotiated upper limit, e.g.
caused by other network traffic and/or various types of physical limitations
in the end-to-end media path. Sending a higher bitrate that what the end-to-
end media path can transport, can either cause data buffering, which increases
media latency, or if buffering capabilities are limited, instead decrease
reliability by causing excess media data loss/discard. Meeting those
requirements will be easier if the UE has the capability to automatically and
dynamically adapt its sending bitrate to match available bitrate on the end-
to-end media path.
### 5.3.2 Implications on MTSI and IMS-based Telepresence
Current MTSI and IMS-based Telepresence does not mandate support and use of
all bitrate adaptation functionality included in the respective specification,
but leaves some parts of it optional. To better meet 5G requirements, the best
possible bitrate adaptation using available methods should be made mandatory.
### 5.3.3 Recommended Requirements
It is recommended that best possible bitrate adaptation using available
methods is made mandatory for 5G MTSI and IMS Telepresence.
### 5.3.4 Gap Analysis
In current MTSI and IMS Telepresence, use of a=bw-info, ANBR, ECN, sending
CMR, and video triggers capable to detect 10% or more reduction in video
bitrate are optional.
### 5.3.5 Potential Solutions
A tentative solution to enhance the bitrate adaptation with available methods
in 5G MTSI and IMS Telepresence is to recommend the support for the following
capabilities for MTSI and TP clients:
\- If so configured by the operator, support of ANBR as an adaptation trigger,
as described by clause 10.7 of TS 26.114 [2].
\- If so configured by the operator, speech media receiver capability to
trigger sending CMR requesting bitrate adaptation in the corresponding media
sender RTP stream, based on estimated media receive direction channel quality,
as described in clause 10.2 of TS 26.114 [2]. When the UE is triggering
adaptation in this manner, an example adaptation logic may be provided.
\- Video media receiver capability to use one or more adaptation triggers,
jointly capable to detect a needed reduction in throughput of 10% or more, and
to send RTCP TMMBR accordingly.
\- Video media sender taking all of the above adaptation triggers into account
and adapting the sent bitrate to the highest bitrate that is still lower than
or equal to the minimum of the adaptation triggers, and to send RTCP TMMBN
accordingly.When the UE is triggering adaptation in this manner, an example
adaptation logic may be provided.
It should be possible for an operator to configure MTSI clients according to
its policy on whether or not to use adaptation and offer these capabilities in
the SDP. This could also be achieved by the network using B2BUA to disable use
of adaptation by modifying the SDP.
## 5.4 Technical Aspect 4: VR Services
### 5.4.1 Description
Clause 7.2.3 of TS 22.261 [2] includes requirements toward supporting virtual
reality (VR) and interactive conversation use cases, including relevant
motion-to-photon and motion-to-sound latency requirements. Moreover, clauses
5.9, 5.10 and 5.11 of TR 26.918 [9] contain use cases on conversational VR
(i.e., spherical video calls, videoconferencing with 360 video), user-
generated VR live streaming (i.e., \"See what I see\") and virtual world
communication, respectively, involving interactive real-time encoding,
delivery and consumption of VR content relevant for MTSI and IMS-based
telepresence.
### 5.4.2 Implications on MTSI
Currently, MTSI endpoints as specified in TS 26.114 [4] does not support
mechanisms to encode, deliver and consume VR content.
### 5.4.3 Implications on IMS-based Telepresence
Currently, IMS-based Telepresence endpoints as specified in TS 26.223 [5] does
not support mechanisms to encode, deliver and consume VR content.
### 5.4.4 Recommended Requirements
It is recommended that 5G MTSI and IMS Telepresence endpoints support VR
capabilities relevant for real-time encoding, delivery and consumption of 3D
spatial audio and 360 videos toward fulfilling the recommended objectives in
clause 9.3.2 of TR 26.918 [9].
### 5.4.5 Gap Analysis
The gap analysis presented in clauses 5.9.3 and 9.3.1 of TR 26.918 [9] is
applicable for 5G MTSI and IMS Telepresence endpoints.
On top of these gaps, the following detailed gaps specific to 5G MTSI and TP
endpoints may be listed:
\- To enable VR support, it is necessary to define SDP-based mechanisms for
the negotiation of VR capabilities across MTSI / TP senders and receivers
during both call setup and mid-call. VR capabilities here include the related
codecs, formats and media handling mechanisms for encoding, delivery and
consumption of 3D spatial audio and 360 degree videos. This for instance
includes the negotiation of relevant projection and/or packing format(s)
(including fish-eye video) to be used by the sender and receiver during
delivery of 360 degree videos.
\- In addition, for interactive navigation, it is beneficial to define
suitable formats for real-time signalling of field-of-view (FOV) or viewport
information from an MTSI / TP receiver to an MTSI / TP sender and vice versa
during a multimedia telephony session, including consideration of the related
RTP/RTCP based protocol impacts. Such indication of the viewport can allow for
encoding optimizations on the sender side, toward delivering a higher quality
stream and/or reduction of the bandwidth consumption.
### 5.4.6 Potential Solutions
Clause 9.3.3 of TR 26.918 [9] documents a few potential solutions.
Further potential solutions are for further study.
The relevant interoperability points for VR support over MTSI and IMS-
telepresence are:
\- Media profiles providing RTP and elementary stream constraints for a single
media type.
\- Rendering Scheme types for post-decoder processing of decoder output
signals together with rendering metadata.
\- Potential Viewport test points for rendered output signals.
Note that this applies to both media types, audio and video. The elementary
stream constraints of a media profile may be indicated by a requirement to
comply with a certain profile and level of the media coding specification,
possibly including additional constraints and extensions, such as a
requirement of the presence of certain information for rendering and
presentation.
Figure 5.4.6.1 provides an overview of a possible receiver architecture that
recovers the spherical video in an MTSI or IMS Telepresence UE. Note that this
figure does not represent an actual implementation, but a logical set of
receiver functions. Based on a received RTP media stream, the UE parses,
possibly decrypts and moves the elementary stream to the HEVC decoder. The
HEVC decoder obtains the decoder output signal, referred to as the
\"texture\", as well as the decoder metadata. The Decoder Metadata contains
the Supplemental Information Enhancement messages to be used in the rendering
phase. In particular, the SEI messages may be used by the Texture-to-Sphere
Mapping function to generate a spherical video based on the decoded output
signal, i.e., the texture. The viewport is then generated from the spherical
video signal by taking into account viewport position information from
sensors, display characteristics as well as possibly other metadata such as
initial viewport information.
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="1.738888888888889in"}
Figure 5.4.6.1: Potential receiver architecture for VR support over MTSI and
IMS Telepresence
In addition, the definitions and reference systems in clause 4.1 of TS 26.118
[17] are applicable to VR support over MTSI and IMS telepresence.
Note: Considering that real-time encoding of 360 degree video content could
have significant latency, the initial consideration of VR support over MTSI is
not on conversational VR, but rather on the user generated live VR streaming
use cases. The use of MTSI in this context relies on live encoding of VR
content, as in the case of Framework for Live Uplink Streaming (FLUS) in TS
26.238 [19].
For 360 degree video, the potential solutions can consider the following
principles:
\- The RTP stream would contain an HEVC bitstream with Supplemental
Enhancement Information (SEI) messages in regards to omnidirectional media. In
particular, SEI messages describing the decoder rendering metadata on the
omnidirectional video as defined in ISO/IEC 23008-2 [15] may be present.
\- Video elementary streams may be encoded following the requirements in the
Omnidirectional Media Format (OMAF) specification ISO/IEC 23090-2 [16], clause
10.1.2.2.
Relevant SEI messages contained in the elementary stream with decoder
rendering metadata may include the following information as per ISO/IEC
23008-2 [15]:
\- Region-wise packing information, e.g., carrying packing format indication
and also any coverage restrictions
\- Projection mapping (indicates projection format), with indication of Equi-
Rectangular projection (ERP) or Cubemap projection
\- Padding, indicates whether there is padding in the packed frame
\- Frame packing arrangement, indicating packing format for stereoscopic
content
\- Content prerotation information, including sphere rotation
The output signal, i.e. the decoded picture or \"texture\", is then rendered
using the SEI messages contained in the video elementary streams. Metadata is
used when performing rendering operations such as region-wise unpacking,
projection de-mapping and rotation toward creating spherical content for each
eye.
Viewport-dependent processing could be achieved by sending from the MTSI
receiver RTCP feedback or RTP header extension messages with the desired
viewport information and then encoding and sending the corresponding viewport
by the MTSI sender. This is expected to deliver resolutions higher than the
viewport independent approach for the desired viewport. For one-to-one video
telephony scenarios, approaches such as tiling and sub-picture coding in the
viewport-dependent profile of OMAF in ISO/IEC 23090-2 [16] etc. are not
relevant for the 5G conversational setting, as the MTSI sender can customize
the encoding according to the viewport chosen by the MTSI receiver and
signalled to the MTSI sender using RTCP feedback or RTP header extension
messages. However, viewport-dependent processing based on tiling and sub-
picture coding could be relevant for multi-party video conferencing scenarios.
OMAF Video profiles in ISO/IEC 23090-2 [16] are based on HEVC Main 10 Profile,
Main Tier, Level 5.1 in order to deliver high quality VR experiences. In the
meantime, MTSI in TS 26.114 [4] recommends H.265 (HEVC) Main Profile, Main
Tier, Level 3.1 for video, and IMS telepresence in TS 26.223 [5] recommends
H.265 (HEVC) Main Profile, Main Tier, Level 4.1 for video.
For achieving video quality required by VR services, it may be recommended
that the video codecs for VR support in MTSI and IMS telepresence are aligned
with OMAF and/or TS 26.118 [17]. It is expected that both MTSI client and MTSI
gateway codec requirements are aligned with these recommended video codec
requirements for VR support. It is not expected that the mechanisms for
session setup and negotiation would be different because of this changed
requirement on video codecs.
With regards to the negotiation of SEI messages for carriage of decoder
rendering metadata, procedures specified in IETF RFC 7798 [18] on the RTP
payload format for HEVC may be reused. In particular, RFC 7798 can allow
exposing SEI messages related to decoder rendering metadata for
omnidirectional media in the SDP using the \'sprop-sei\' parameter, which
allows to convey one or more SEI messages that describe bitstream
characteristics. When present, a decoder can rely on the bitstream
characteristics that are described in the SEI messages for the entire duration
of the session. Intentionally, RFC 7798 does not list an applicable or
inapplicable SEI messages to be listed as part of this parameter, so the newly
defined SEI messages for omnidirectional media in ISO/IEC 23008-2 [15] can be
signalled. It is expected that both MTSI clients and MTSI gateways support RTP
payload formats for VR support.
For one-to-one video telephony scenarios, it is expected that support of the
following omnidirectional video specific SEI messages would be sufficient: 1)
the equirectangular projection SEI message, 2) the cubemap projection SEI
message, and 3) t**he sphere rotation SEI message.** For multi-party video
conferencing scenarios, in addition to the above three SEI messages, the
support of the region-wise packing SEI message could also be useful. For
stereoscopic video support, in either one-to-one video telephony scenarios or
multi-party video conferencing scenarios, support of the frame packing
arrangement SEI message is needed.
## 5.5 Technical Aspect 5: 5G New Radio (NR) Access
### 5.5.1 Description
5G New Radio (NR) has been defined by 3GPP as a new access technology [10] -
[11] for Release 15. The 5G system will support 3GPP access technologies,
including one or more NR and E-UTRA as well as non-3GPP access technologies.
Standalone (SA) NR will be connected to 5GC and use 5G QoS. Interoperability
among the various access technologies will be imperative. For optimization and
resource efficiency, the 5G system will select the most appropriate 3GPP or
non-3GPP access technology for a service, potentially allowing multiple access
technologies to be used simultaneously for one or more services active on a
UE. Clause 5.1 of TS 22.261 [2] includes high level requirements toward
supporting 5G access technologies, including NR. Clause 6.3 of TS 22.261
contains requirements for interworking with the various combinations of 5G
access technologies including NR.
### 5.5.2 Implications on MTSI
5G NR is a new type of access for an MTSI client to connect to IMS.
Currently, MTSI endpoints as specified in TS 26.114 [4] do not address media
handling aspects with 5G NR access.
### 5.5.3 Implications on IMS-based Telepresence
5G NR is a new type of access for an IMS-based Telepresence client to connect
to IMS.
Currently, IMS-based Telepresence endpoints as specified in TS 26.223 [5] do
not address media handling aspects with 5G NR access.
### 5.5.4 Recommended Requirements
It is recommended that media handling for NR access is supported for 5G MTSI
and IMS Telepresence endpoints, including that for speech and video.
Note: NR is not necessarily the preferred access over LTE access. It is TBD on
what the preferred access would be when multiple access technologies are
available.
### 5.5.5 Gap Analysis
#### 5.5.5.1 Overview of Gaps in MTSI
From MTSI perspective, the introduction of NR as a new type of access leads to
several gaps in TS 26.114 [4], some of which can be listed as follows:
\- In Tables 7.1 and 12.1 of TS 26.114 [4] for the MTSI client and MTSI media
gateway, respectively, the speech frame encapsulation parameters for the SDP
offer-answer messages including ptime and maxptime need to be defined for NR
as a new radio access bearer technology.
\- Access Network Bitrate Recommendation (ANBR) (as defined in clause 10.7 of
TS 26.114 [4]) information may be signalled to the MTSI client in the UE using
NR access, as defined in TS 38.300 [10], TS 38.331 [11], TS 38.306 [20] and TS
38.321 [21], and in this scenario the message mapping to NR access needs to be
provided.
\- Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN) in NR is specified in [22], and
hence ECN-triggered media rate adaptation for speech and video ispossible for
MTSI clients with NR access. MTSI clients connected with NR access may
optionally offer ECN, and relevant recommendations on use of ECN in MTSI that
are already present in TS 26.114 [2] are also applicable for MTSI clients with
NR access.
\- RAN delay budget reporting mechanisms, as specified in TS 36.331 [12] for
LTE access, may also be used by MTSI UEs with NR access in order to locally
adjust air interface delay, towards improving end-to-end delay and quality
performance. RAN delay budget reporting for NR access is specified in TS
38.300 [10], TS 38.331 [11] and TS 38.306 [20]. As such, media handling
aspects of RAN-based delay budget reporting as described in TR 26.910 [13] are
applicable for MTSI clients with NR access.
\- Media handling enhancements for enabling codec-aware optimizations of
Single radio voice call continuity (SRVCC) handover thresholds in Voice over
LTE (VoLTE) as described in TR 26.959 [14] are also applicable for speech
services to MTSI clients with NR access, including fallback/handover from
Voice over NR (VoNR) to VoLTE.
Note: In the first release of NR for Rel-15, the interworking with 2G/3G is
not supported, and VoNR can only be supported via IMS. SRVCC from 5GS to UTRAN
support for VoNR is work in progress.
For IMS-based telepresence in TS 26.223 [5], the same gaps observed for MTSI
above are applicable and no further gaps are foreseen.
#### 5.5.5.2 Setting MBR>GBR in 5GS
TR 23.860, clause 6.5, contains the following text:
_To make MBR >GBR bearers useful for a 3GPP application / service (e.g., MTSI)
based on a bit rate adaptive codec requires that when sending beyond GBR the
media end-points become aware of incipient congestion ahead of time. This is
to allow the media end-point to trigger a codec rate reduction before packets
need to be dropped in the network. With the Explicit Congestion Notification
(ECN) scheme supported for UTRA/HSPA and E-UTRA, and for voice and video
Codecs this requirement is met. So given that the media end-points have
successfully negotiated the use of ECN no problem has been identified with
simply allowing MBR>GBR bearers._
_No additional functionality has been identified beyond what has already been
specified in Rel-8 that would be required from a UE to support MBR >GBR
bearers. On NAS level a UE shall anyway not reject a dedicated bearer based on
QoS parameters (see dedicated establishment procedure in 23.401: \"The UE may
provide the EPS Bearer QoS parameters to the application handling the traffic
flow. The application usage of the EPS Bearer QoS is implementation dependent.
The UE shall not reject the RRC Connection Reconfiguration on the basis of the
EPS Bearer QoS parameters contained in the Session Management Request.\")._
_SA4 has stated [S4-070314] that for 3GPP services like MTSI packet dropping
is not an acceptable means to trigger a codec rate reduction. In particular
for video the error propagation may greatly damage video quality. SA WG4 even
states: \"Dropping packets may actually increase the media bit rate if e.g.
frame redundancy is invoked due to degraded channel conditions.\" This is why
an operator may want to configure a policy that the PCRF shall check that the
end-points have successfully negotiated the use of ECN, i.e. that a congestion
pre-warning scheme has been put in place, before the network sets MBR >GBR for
3GPP services like MTSI. Note that MBR>GBR is allowed already in 2G/3G pre-
Rel-8._
The RAN-assisted codec adaptation feature was developed in Rel-14 as the ECN-
based solution was not reliable as it is difficult to guarantee that
intermediate routers in the core network and along the transmission path would
not drop ECN-marked packets. The ECN-based adaptation also had these other
limitations:
1) It could not provide an explicit indication of what rate could be supported
when congestion was experienced or eased. Adaptation could easily over-shoot
or be too-slow, especially when ramping up rates after congestion eased.
2) It could not be reliably confirmed that ECN was supported by each access
network in the transmission path. An eNB that was not ECN-aware may allow the
end-to-end negotiation of ECN without it performing CE markings if it
experienced congestion.
RAN-assisted codec adaptation has the advantages that:
1) It is implemented in the access network and UEs. It does not rely on
changes to the core network or intermediate routers.
2) It provides an explicit indication of the UL and DL rate that is supported,
enabling faster and more accurate adaptation.
RAN-assisted codec adaptation has the disadvantages that:
\- It does not allow intermediate routers in the core network or backhaul to
indicate congestion and therefore influence rate adaptation. However, there is
no evidence that this is an issue as the radio access network links are almost
always the bottle neck and not the wireline links.
\- It does not provide any end-to-end confirmation that the access networks
and UEs all support rate adaptation. This can be addressed as described in
clause 5.5.6.1.
#### 5.5.5.3 UE Adaptation at Rates > GBR
When a UE risks operating at rates above the GBR it relies on rate adaptation
mechanisms to indicate when it has exceeded the supported bandwidth and the UE
should reduce its rate. TS 26.114 has multiple mechanisms that can trigger a
media receiver to request that the media sender reduce its rate, namely:
1) The media receiver experiences packet loss, jitter, or delay in excess of
certain internally set thresholds.
2) The media receives and indication that the MBR has been reduced below its
current transmission rate.
3) The media receiver detects packets with ECN-CE markings.
4) The media receiver receives an ANBR message indicating that its downlink
rate needs to be reduced.
Furthermore, the media sender could also get a direct ANBR from its eNB that
it should reduce its uplink transmission rate.
The above mechanisms for rate adaptation are generally arranged in the order
of \"least graceful\" to \"most graceful\" -- the latter ones could pose the
least interruption or degradation to the media.
Therefore, when determining what rate to transmit at above GBR, the UE can
adjust the aggressiveness of its algorithms based on knowing which of the
above mechanisms are supported by the system, i.e., supported by the access
network, the other UE, and the core network.
While ECN support by the far-end UE can be determined via the ECN negotiation
procedures, it cannot be confirmed for the near and far-end access networks.
For RAN-assisted rate adaptation, there is currently no apparent way for a UE
to confirm that the far-end access network and UE support this form of
adaptation. This can be addressed by the solution described in clause 5.5.6.1.
### 5.5.6 Potential Solutions
#### 5.5.6.1 SDP Parameter for End-to-end RAN-assisted codec adaptation
support
Defining a new SDP parameter to indicate that both UEs and their respective
eNBs, support RAN assisted codec adaptation would address the issues
identified in clauses 5.5.5.2 and 5.5.5.3. The general semantics would be as
follows:
1) An Offering UE that supports the ANBR messages (RAN-assisted codec
adaptation) also checks that its eNB supports the feature. If both support
ANBR then the UE includes the _anbr_e2e_ SDP parameter in the SDP offer.
2) An Answering UE that receives the _anbr_e2e_ parameter in the SDP Offer
includes the _anbr_e2e_ parameter in the SDP Answer if the Answering and its
eNB also support the ANBR messages. Otherwise, the Answering UE does not
include the _anbr_e2e_ parameter in the SDP Answer.
3) An Answering UE that does not receive the _anbr_e2e_ parameter in the SDP
offer does not include the _anbr_e2e_ parameter in the SDP answer.
It should be noted that clause 5.1.5.3 of TR 26.910 [13] describes a potential
solution based on SDP-based exchange of RAN capabilities using a new
\'RANCapabilities\' attribute, that not only allows indicating RAN-assisted
codec adaptation capabilities, but also other radio capabilities such as delay
budget reporting. The newly defined _anbr_e2e_ parameter could be part of the
\'RANCapabilities\' attribute to indicate RAN-assisted codec adaptation
capabilities.
The general steps are illustrated in Figure 5.5.6.1.1.
Figure 5.5.6.1.1: Negotiation of end-to-end RAN-assisted codec adaptation
support.
The PCRF/PCF would use the presence of this parameter in the SDP Answer to
determine that it could set MBR>GBR with very high confidence and the UE could
use its presence to use more aggressive adaptation algorithms when operating
at rates >GBR.
#### 5.5.6.2 SDP Parameter for link-by-link RAN-assisted codec adaptation
support
A variant on the above is to have the ability for only one UE and its access
network to indicate support of the ANBR messages. This may be useful in cases
where end-to-end adaptation is not guaranteed but the ability of one link to
support it may provide a lower level of confidence to set MBR > GBR and
operate at rates > GBR.
The semantics of such a solution could be as follows:
1) An Offering UE that supports the ANBR message also checks that its eNB
supports the feature. If both support ANBR then the UE includes the _anbr_Off_
SDP parameter in the SDP offer.
2) An Answering UE that receives the _anbr_Off_ parameter in the SDP Offer
includes the _anbr_Off_ parameter in the SDP Answer if the Answering UE and
its eNB also support the ANBR messages. Otherwise, the Answering UE does not
include the _anbr_Off_ parameter.
3) An Answering UE that does not receive the _anbr_ parameter in the SDP offer
includes the _anbr_Ans_ parameter in the SDP answer only if the Answering UE
and its eNB support the ANBR messages.
#### 5.5.6.3 Support of RAN-Assisted Codec Adaptation on NR
ECN-based and RAN-assisted codec adaptation are both currently supported for
NR. Hence, the PCRF/PCF and UE do not have to purely rely on the rudimentary
packet drop, delay, or jitter detection at the UE receiving media to set MBR >
GBR and operate at rates >GBR, respectively, and can leverage awareness of
support for ECN and RAN-assisted codec adaptation when setting GBR \< MBR
bearers.
To enable the 5GS to operate at least as well as EUTRAN it is recommended that
RAN-assisted codec adaptation also be supported over NR. ECN is not
recommended because of the limitations identified in clause 2.
Furthermore, to enable the end-to-end solutions proposed in clauses 4 and/or
5, it is necessary to specify a mechanism for a UE to be able to determine
whether its access network supports RAN-assisted codec adaptation prior to
sending the first SDP Offer or Answer.
Currently the UE can only determine this when,
\- the bitRateQueryProhibitTimer is included in a RRCconnectionReconfiguration
message from the access network; or
\- the UE receives a recommended bit rate MAC CE from the access network.
To indicate support of this capability to the UE it is necessary for RAN2 to
enhance the RRC specification to explicitly indicate that RAN-assisted codec
adaption is supported by SIB or enabled by RRC Reconfiguration.
## 5.6 Technical Aspect 6: Profiles for 5G Deployments
### 5.6.1 Description
As discussed in clause 4.2 and also in TS 22.261 [2], 5G system is expected to
a wide range of applications and market verticals, and media handling in
relation to 3GPP conversational services in the context of MTSI can be
relevant for these broad set of verticals. Enhanced media handling
capabilities are necessary to address certain verticals on the high end (e.g.,
immersive video/audio for enhanced mobile broadband), and this has resulted in
various upgrades to mandatory MTSI client capabilities as documented in the
present document, such as those on speech codecs (in clause 5.1), video codecs
(in clause 5.2) and media rate adaptation (in clause 5.3). In the meantime,
there are other 5G verticals, in which the device complexities need to be kept
limited (e.g., wearables, IoT, smartwatch, etc.), or for which superwideband
acoustic capability could not be feasible, and media quality expectations
could be on par with 4G. For such low-end verticals, the upgrades documented
in the present document on mandatory MTSI client media handling features may
not be suitable. To address these wide range of media handling capabilities
foreseen for emerging 5G usages of MTSI, creation of MTSI client profiles for
a selected set of market verticals with a corresponding set of mandatory
codecs and other media handling capabilities is desirable.
### 5.6.2 Implications on MTSI
Currently, MTSI specification in TS 26.114 does not include client profiles
targeted for various 5G deployments.
### 5.6.3 Implications on IMS-based Telepresence
At this point, no impact is foreseen specifically for IMS-based telepresence
in TS 26.223 in regards to this technical aspect.
### 5.6.4 Recommended Requirements
It is recommended that two MTSI client profiles are defined: a default profile
that would be the main profile and a constrained profile. This allows some
flexibility in TS 26.114 for a selected set of market verticals of 5G
deployments. It is also recommended that with each profile, a corresponding
set of mandatory codecs and other media handling capabilities are defined. The
defined profiles are expected to consider interoperability and target
minimizing potential transcoding needs.
### 5.6.5 Gap Analysis
It would be desirable to define MTSI client profiles based on speech and video
codec requirements described in clauses 5.2.1.1 and 5.2.2 of TS 26.114. In
addition to codecs, other media handling capabilities may be included in the
defined MTSI client profiles, but this is not expected to be addressed at the
first stage.
### 5.6.6 Potential Solutions
It would be desirable to have two MTSI client profiles in TS 26.114 based on
codec capabilities. One of these profiles would be based on Rel-15 client
capabilities described in clauses 5.2.1.1 and 5.2.2 of TS 26.114. The second
MTSI client profile would be based on speech and video codec capabilities
relevant to serve the needs of low-end 5G verticals such as wearables and IoT.
A candidate profile for this purpose could adopt Rel-14 client capabilities
described in clauses 5.2.1.1 and 5.2.2 of TS 26.114.
## 5.7 Technical Aspect 7: Support for Real-Time Interaction
### 5.7.1 Description
Real-time communication today consists of voice, video and text. We utilize
these communication services to write to each other, talk to each other and
see each other in real-time. With the introduction of 5G, it should be
considered how we can take the communication service to the next level.
The industry could take the next step and evolve this infrastructure and
services further for a 5G world, adding on new capabilities building on IMS.
With 4G we have real-time communication, the ability to see, hear and talk
over the network. With 5G and the resulting bandwidth and low latency we could
add other abilities such as touch and move over the network, extending real-
time communication with real-time interaction.
The IMS platform inherently provides global find-and-connect with phone
number, authentication, quality-of-service, mobility, security, and
robustness; all of them qualities that are essential for real-time critical
point-to-point communications. The low latency of 5G will enable new types of
use cases, where real-time communication and interaction will be possible over
long distances. This is a significant change and will potentially facilitate a
global shift from real-time communication to real-time interaction.
Technology-wise this can be enabled by adding a data channel to IMS, alongside
with voice, video and text channels.
This shift may create new revenue opportunities for the communication service
providers in various industry segments and in some consumer areas as well.
This potentially unlocks an addressable market for communication service
providers worldwide in areas like: Remote Health, Remote Drone Control, Remote
Education, Remote Security, Remote Machinery Control, Augmented Reality, and
Consumer-to-business Interaction.
As an example of a remote health use case that could be enabled by such data
channel, today, ambulances and paramedics have limited capability to engage
remote healthcare professionals and therefore must rely on the expertise of
the paramedic. Few have the training or equipment to perform ultrasound
diagnosis. If the doctor can be available remotely for the patient, the right
diagnosis can be performed upfront with the right decisions on which hospital
the patient should be transferred to, and what preparation is needed ahead of
arrival. This can save precious time and money for the Health Care Provider.
This use case involves that a patient is investigated with ultrasound by the
paramedic in the ambulance, with remote support from a doctor in a hospital
far away. Utilizing standard IMS for securing point to point HD voice, video
calling and data communication (over an IMS data channel) a paramedic that
requires remote healthcare assistance can connect a voice and video call for
2-way communication. When the paramedic determines the patient would benefit
from an ultrasound diagnosis, the paramedic can place a video call to the
centralized ultrasound unit. There will be a live video link between the
doctor and the patient, allowing the doctor to see the patient and give some
commands, like \"turn left\", \"breathe in\", etc.
With the use of an IMS data channel, they can now also extend the ultrasound
equipment in the ambulance to the doctor for remote control, with the doctor
being able to see and manage the ultrasound machine directly. The doctor
conducts a remote ultrasound procedure in real-time by directing the paramedic
that is wearing a glove with haptic feedback connected through the IMS data
channel. The connected haptic glove is controlled by the doctor through a
joystick control sending small vibrations to the paramedic's glove to direct
the ultrasound sensor, whilst the doctor studies the image from the ultrasound
equipment that is sent on another IMS data channel. This allows for a
nonverbal, tactile interaction between doctor, paramedic and patient. The
paramedic becomes the extension of the doctor in interacting directly with the
patient, and the doctor is guiding the paramedic through the diagnosis. The
doctor, paramedic and patient can also discuss and interact to determine next
steps. Following diagnosis, the choice of hospital in which to send the
patient saves valuable time and ambulance resources, and allows the team
receiving the patient to prepare ahead of arrival.
### 5.7.2 Implications on MTSI
Currently, MTSI specification in TS 26.114 does not include any possibility
for such data channel usage.
### 5.7.3 Implications on IMS-based Telepresence
Currently, IMS-based telepresence in TS 26.223 has a suitable data channel,
but that is only used to exchange CLUE configuration and messages and support
would have to be generalized similar to MTSI (above).
### 5.7.4 Recommended Requirements
To enable the above use case and other real-time interaction use cases in the
IMS communication service framework, it is recommended that the following
additions are made to IMS, MTSI, and IMS Telepresence (not in any priority
order):
1) Secure, in-call, UE-to-UE transfer of application-specific information, to
meet as many end-to-end, real-time interaction needs as possible
2) No need to standardize or specify every application using the IMS data
channel, for maximum usefulness, fast innovation, and fast deployment
3) Easy access to data channel input and output for the application and end-
user, for fast application development and maximum usefulness
4) Multiple, IMS data channel applications can be pre-defined and used per UE
5) Which IMS data channel application(s) to use can be chosen on a per-call
basis
6) Each IMS data channel application can use multiple data channels
simultaneously within a single call
7) Avoid the need to create an entirely new ecosystem for IMS data channel
application development, to limit the development and deployment effort for
both operators and developers
8) High flexibility in IMS data channel transport characteristics, to support
as many applications and usages as possible
9) Allow for operator control of applications and application use of
resources, to prevent misuse of IMS and operator assets
### 5.7.5 Gap Analysis
It would be desirable to define MTSI data channel as another media in TS
26.114 and generalize data channel usage in TS 26.223.
### 5.7.6 Potential Solutions
#### 5.7.6.1 WebRTC Data Channel Framework
##### 5.7.6.1.1 Flexibility in Usage
Through the capabilities delivered with IMS, use of the WebRTC data channel
framework [23][24] would allow for configurable IMS data channel definitions
whilst still ensuring quality-of-service, security and robustness. These data
channels can be used to transport any types of data for any purpose, all in
sync with the voice and video communication session. The data channels could
be established with operator provided characteristics for the data to be sent
based on existing IMS policy framework, to meet the requirements of specific
use cases when it comes to latency, robustness and bandwidth. The WebRTC data
channel setup can be negotiated in SDP [25] [26], which is a key component of
IMS, and WebRTC data channels can therefore be an almost seamless addition to
an existing IMS voice/video call. The choice of WebRTC data channel as
technology in the context of IMS would therefore tentatively meet requirements
1, 6, and 8 above.
##### 5.7.6.1.2 Flexibility in Development
Requirements 2, 3, and 7 can be harder to meet in a traditional IMS context
and to meet them requires careful consideration, especially on the UE side.
Starting from requirement 7, if IMS data channels are based on WebRTC data
channels, there's already substantial WebRTC data channel support in all major
web browsers, which also means that all major web development tools today
include means to make use of WebRTC data channel. This involves use of the
JavaScript programming language that can be tied to the HTML code of a web
page, which is a common technique used today for any non-static web content.
Available development tools include, for example, the developer mode of the
web browsers themselves, as well as modern web server-side tools such as
"node.js" [27], which would likely mean that existing web developers would
find application development for IMS data channel very familiar.
As for requirements 2 and 3, use of JavaScript and (HTML) web pages provides a
very good starting point; new applications using the IMS data channel can
easily be created in JavaScript without the need to change anything around the
IMS data channel itself. Having the JavaScript interpreter tied to the device
platform web engine additionally provides easy programmatic access to most (if
not all) UE input/output devices that JavaScript applications can use to
produce and consume data sent through the IMS data channel. In terms of the
above listed use case as an example, the ultrasound image from the ultrasound
machine, the screen showing that ultrasound image to the doctor, the joystick,
and the haptic glove are input/output devices attached to IMS data channels
through physical interfaces on the UEs and must be handled by the IMS data
channel JavaScript application.
Another benefit that comes from using the UE platform web engine is that
programmatic JavaScript access to textual and graphical user interface
elements is already solved through the existing web engine JavaScript control
over any imaginable web page element. Since one of the main potential
strengths of IMS data channel is that it can be used for almost anything, it
wouldn't work to require a hard-coded user interface that must be used by all
IMS data channel applications. The IMS data channel JavaScript application
needs flexible user interface input and output to handle end-user interaction
and presentation related to IMS data channel data. This would however also
suggest that the legacy dialer, traditionally used for IMS communication
services, must be amended with capability to handle interactive web content in
the form of HTML and JavaScript, to keep IMS data channel handling easily
reachable within an IMS communication context.
##### 5.7.6.1.3 Flexibility in Operations
A few remaining solution aspects on requirement 2 come from the desire to
easily handle multiple IMS data channel applications in requirements 4, 5, and
introducing IMS data channel application operations and control in requirement
9:
\- It can be seen from the above that it is beneficial to be able to use any
available web development tool, and it is therefore assumed that the web page
and JavaScript used for IMS data channel are created in that way. It can
further be assumed that the IMS data channel input/output and the
corresponding graphical user interface (being integrated with the native
dialer) must be more restricted than the general web context, which would
require some verification and potential modification of the web page and the
JavaScript produced by the general web development tools, before deployment in
IMS data channel context.
\- The WebRTC use of data channel assumes that the two end-points have access
to the same JavaScript, which contains the specific application logic on how
this data channel is to be used and its interaction with the end-user through
the graphical user interface. It is suggested to not step away from this
principle, which means that the IMS data channel web page and JavaScript must
be available in both UE before use.
\- It is assumed that a single end-user may want to use the same UE with
several different IMS data channel applications, perhaps depending on what the
desired IMS data channel use case is, perhaps also depending on who the remote
party is, which means that IMS data channel application must at least be
possible to change on a per-call basis. It is therefore assumed that a single
UE must have access to some repository of IMS data channel applications that
the end-user can select from. Such application repository could be stored
locally in the UE, somewhere in the public cloud, or as an operator-provided
repository that is likely linked to the IMS data channel subscription.
Three benefits with operator-provided IMS data channel application repository
can be noted:
a) Ability to combine the upload process with adapting the provided JavaScript
and web page according to a format that will suit the UE dialer graphical
layout and IMS data channel usage, as opposed to how they can be used for
legacy browser WebRTC data channel on the Internet.
b) Ability to dynamically distribute an IMS data channel application that one
UE desires to use in the call to the other party's UE, as part of the call
itself, simplifying usage and avoiding separate, pre-call procedures that
might be considered cumbersome by the end-users and hamper IMS data channel
usage.
c) Increased possibilities for the end-user to easily choose own IMS data
channel application on a per-call basis, during or just before the IMS call
setup (remote user might get a data channel application pushed to it as part
of b) above).
##### 5.7.6.1.4 Relation to Existing WebRTC in IMS Specifications
There is a specification of WebRTC access to IMS in 3GPP [31]. That
specification is however focused on access to IMS from an IMS-adapted WebRTC
client or using IMS as a communication network between IMS-adapted WebRTC
clients, effectively extending IMS to the WebRTC domain. Clause 8 of that
specification describes use of the WebRTC data channel, but only to pass data
between WebRTC clients adapted to IMS usage. Additionally, IMS will only pass
through the content of such WebRTC data channel if the eIMS-AGW can translate
between WebRTC data channel and some other protocol that is supported inside
the IMS domain, e.g. MSRP where MSRP is carried in the WebRTC data channel
[30] outside of IMS domain. Therefore, extending IMS itself to handle WebRTC
data channel as another media alongside voice, video, and text seems to be out
of scope for that specification today.
#### 5.7.6.2 MSRP
It could be argued that other data channel capabilities are already available
in IMS, such as e.g. MSRP [28][29]. However, MSRP is mainly a messaging
protocol and is not designed for stream data. Also, MSRP doesn't have the
tight relation to HTML and JavaScript provided by WebRTC data channel and the
benefits from that is typically missing from MSRP implementations, which make
them much less flexible and less easy to use for data channel application
developers. While it would be possible to expose a platform IMS MSRP stack to
an application on the UE in the same fashion as the WebRTC data channel is
exposed to JavaScript, no such plans are currently known. It should be noted
that choosing WebRTC data channel as technology for IMS data channel doesn't
prevent use of MSRP; In case MSRP is needed by future IMS data channel
applications, e.g. to interwork with existing MSRP applications, work is
ongoing in IETF to describe how to run MSRP within the WebRTC data channel
[30].
# 6 Impacts of 5G Stage-2 System Architecture on 3GPP Conversational Services
## 6.1 Technical Aspect 1: Mapping of Conversational Services to 5G System
### 6.1.1 Description
Clause 4.3 describes the Stage-2 architecture for the 5G system. The 5G system
is to support 3GPP conversational services including MTSI and IMS-based
telepresence and it is of interest to understand the mapping of these services
to the 5G system. In that regard, the control-plane and user-plane
functionality of a network slice on MTSI and IMS-based telepresence are of
interest and how these would map to the 5G system architecture.
### 6.1.2 Implications on MTSI and IMS-based Telepresence
The use of 5G System to access IMS in Rel-15 has been specified in TS 23.228
Annex Y [7]. In addition, PCC aspects are described in TS 23.503 [8].
As described in the specifications referenced above, for Rel-15 it is assumed
that the IMS can be accessed via 5G System without any changes to the IMS. The
IMS subsystem connects to the underlying 5G System using the Sh/Cx interface
towards the UDM/HSS and the N5 or Rx interface to the PCF.
The N5 reference point is a point-to-point representation of the service-based
(HTTP-based) interface Npcf/Naf. While both N5 and Rx can be used for
communication between the IMS and the PCF, it is noted that in Rel-15 the two
reference points are functionally equivalent.
IMS functional blocks relevant for MTSI and IMS-based Telepresence services,
including Application Server (AS), S-CSCF, I-CSCF, P-CSCF, HSS, MRFC, MRFP,
IBCF, TrGW, etc. are considered as part of the AF and are transparent to the
5G System as long as the reference points N5/Rx, Sh and Cx remain unchanged.
Furthermore, the 5G system architectural requirements specified in clause
5.16.3 of TS 23.501 [3] on IMS support impacting AMF, SMF and PCF are
applicable for MTSI.
# 7 Codecs for 5G Conversational Services
## 7.1 Introduction
Clause 5 of the present document describes some codec aspects for 5G
conversational services. As described there, reuse of codecs that are already
part of 3GPP conversational services seems sufficient to meet most 5G
requirements. This clause describes new codecs and new usage of existing
codecs that are enabled by the 5G system.
# 8 QoS Handling for 5G Conversational Services
## 8.1 Introduction
No gaps were identified in regards to QoS handling for MTSI and IMS-based
telepresence over the 5G system.
# 9 Conclusions
It is recommended to conduct normative work toward specifying the following
functionality in TS 26.114 and TS 26.223:
\- For video, mandate support for H.265/HEVC and H.264/AVC for 5G MTSI and IMS
Telepresence endpoints, as per the recommendations in clause 5.2.4.
\- For speech, mandate support for AMR, AMR-WB, and develop further codec
requirements based upon EVS, potentially including SWB operation, as per the
recommendations in clause 5.1.4.
\- For media rate adaptation, recommend support for speech and video
adaptation capabilities considering the potential solutions described in
clause 5.3.5.
\- For 5G NR access, enable support for media handling with NR access,
including that for speech and video, toward addressing the gaps indicated in
clause 5.5.5. This also includes support for negotiation of radio capabilities
on ANBR signalling as described in clause 5.5.6.
\- For profiles for 5G deployments: define MTSI client profiles with a
corresponding set of mandatory codec and potentially other media handling
capabilities to address the needs and constraints of different terminal
categories (e.g. IoT, wearables) related to different 5G verticals,
considering the potential solutions described in clause 5.6.6 of TR 26.919.
Profiles will be defined in a clear way in relation to identified terminal
characteristics.
#