# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
SA1 has summarized service requirements in TS 22.101 [13], clause 32 for TV
Enhancements.
According to TS 22.101 [13], clause 32.1, _\"3GPP enhancement for TV service
support is a feature whereby 3GPP networks can provide unicast and broadcast
transport, referred to as \"TV transport services\", to support distribution
of TV programs. TV transport services can support the three types of TV
services -- Free-to-air (FTA), Free-to-view (FTV), and Subscribed services.
Each type of TV service has different requirements in order to meet regulatory
obligations and public service and commercial broadcaster\'s requirements
regarding content distribution, hence many requirements captured below are
optional to implement depending on the type of TV transport services an MNO
chooses to offer.\"_
There is interest for the TV industry to be able to deliver broadcast
television (TV services) to connected consumer devices (smartphones, tablets
and TVs) anywhere, by using cellular networks.
Audio/Video content is already a significant and growing traffic type. There
is an opportunity to leverage the support for this content, and 3GPP delivery
methods such as eMBMS, to provide TV broadcast and on-the-go TV/video
services:
\- There is an interest from Over-the-top (OTT) TV/video service providers to
be able to reach their customers regardless of location, and available access
technology, particularly when the consumers have cellular access but not
access to a broadcast TV signal (if that signal exists at all).
\- There may be opportunities in the near future for LTE-based cellular TV
broadcast services, in particular, the free-to-air TV service in some regions
of Europe.
# 1 Scope
The present document collects use cases, recommended requirements,
architectural considerations, gaps, and optimization potentials for PSS and
MBMS User Services in order to enable Television Services on top of PSS/MBMS
User Services and MBMS bearer services. The present document also provides
conclusions and recommendations for normative work.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ETSI EN 300 468: \"Digital Video Broadcasting (DVB); Specification for
Service Information (SI) in DVB systems\", V1.15.1 (2016-03).
[3] ISO/IEC 13818-1:2015, \"Information technology -- Generic coding of moving
pictures and associated audio information -- Part 1: Systems\", 2015-07-01.
[4] ATSC A/331: \"ATSC Candidate Standard: Signaling, Delivery,
Synchronization and Error Protection\", Candidate Standard.
[5] ETSI TS 101 211: \"Digital Video Broadcasting (DVB); Guidelines on
implementation and usage of Service Information (SI), V1.12.1 (2013-12).
[6] OMA: \"Service Guide for Mobile Broadcast Services,\" Version 1.1,
document OMA-TS-BCAST_Service_Guide-V1_1-20131029-A, Open Mobile Alliance, 29
October 2013.
[7] ATSC A/332: \"ATSC Candidate Standard: Service Announcement\", Candidate
Standard.
[8] ISO/IEC 23008-1: \"Information technology -- High efficiency coding and
media delivery in heterogeneous environments -- Part 1: MPEG media transport
(MMT), 2nd Edition.
[9] DASH IF: \"Guidelines for Implementation: DASH-IF Interoperability Points
for ATSC 3.0\", Version 1.0,\" DASH Interoperability Forum.
[10] ISO/IEC 23009-1: \"Information technology -- Dynamic adaptive streaming
over HTTP (DASH) -- Part 1: Media presentation description and segment
formats\", 3rd Edition.
[11] IEEE 1588-2008™: \"IEEE Standard for a Precision Clock Synchronization
Protocol for Networked Measurement and Control Systems\".
[12] OASIS: \"Common Alerting Protocol\", Version 1.2, 1 July 2010.
[13] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[14] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Protocols and codecs\".
[15] 3GPP TR 22.816: \"3GPP enhancement for TV service\".
[16] 3GPP TR 23.746: \"Study on System Architecture Enhancements to eMBMS for
Television Video Service\".
[17] ETSI TS 101 154: \"Specification for the use of Video and Audio Coding in
Broadcasting Applications based on the MPEG-2 Transport Stream, V2.2.1
(2015-06).
[18] 3GPP TS 23.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers for LTE (GCSE_LTE);
Stage 2\".
[19] W3C Recommendations: \"TTML Profiles for Internet Media Subtitles and
Captions 1.0 (IMSC1),\" April 2016.
[20] 3GPP TS 36.201: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Long Term Evolution (LTE) physical layer; General description.\"
[21] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical channels and modulation.\"
[22] **3GPP TS 23.246: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Architecture and functional description\".**
[23] **3GPP TS 26.347: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS); MBMS
APIs and URL\".**
[24] **3GPP TS 29.116: \"Representational state transfer over xMB reference
point between content provider and BM-SC\".**
[25] **3GPP TS 24.117: \"TV Service Configuration Management Object\".**
[26] **3GPP TS 24.116 \"Stage 3 aspects of MBMS service for Receive Only
Mode\".**
[27] **W3C TTML Profiles for Internet Media Subtitles and Captions 1.0
(IMSC1).**
[28] 3GPP TS 26.247: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming
Service (PSS); Progressive Download and Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP
(3GP-DASH)\".
[29] 3GPP TR 26.949: \"Video formats for 3GPP service\".
[30] 3GPP TS 26.116: \"Television (TV) over 3GPP services; Video profiles\".
[31] 3GPP TR 26.953: \"Interactivity support for 3GPP-based streaming and
download services\".
[32] 3GPP TS 26.234: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming
Service (PSS); Protocols and codecs\".
[33] 3GPP TS 26.307: \"Presentation layer for 3GPP services\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Next Generation Audio:** audio formats and coding enabling new sound
experiences such as three dimensions, immersion and interactivity
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AEA Advanced Emergency Alert
AEAT Advanced Emergency Alert Table
AL-FEC Application Layer Forward Error Correction
APD Associated Procedure Description
ATSC Advanced Television Systems Committee
BAT Bouquet Association Table
CA Conditional Access
CAS Conditional Access System
CAP Common Alerting Protocol
CAT Conditional Access Table
CP Cyclic Prefix
DASH Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP
DRM Digital Rights Management
DVB Digital Video Broadcasting
DVB-T/T2 DVB Terrestrial/Terrestrial version 2
DWD Distribution Window Description
EA Emergency Alert
EIT Event Information Table
ESG Electronic Service Guide
FDT File Delivery Table
FTA Free-To-Air
HDR High Dynamic Range
IRD Integrated Receiver Decoder
ISD Inter-Site Distance
LLS Lower Layer Signaling
MMT MPEG Media Transport
MMTP MPEG Media Transport Protocol
MPD Media Presentation Description
MPU Media Processing Unit
NGA Next Generation Audio
NIT Network Information Table
PAT Program Association Table
PMT Program Map Table
PSI Program Specific Information
PTP Precision Time Protocol
RRT Rating Region Table
ROUTE Real-time Object delivery over Unidirectional TransfEr
RST Running Status Table
S-TSID Service-based Transport Session Instance Description
SDO Standard Defining Organization
SDT Service Description Table
SLS Service Layer Signaling
SLT Service List Table
SI Service Information
ST Stuffing Table
TAI International Atomic Time
TDT Time and Date Table
TOT Time Offset Table
TS Transport Stream
TSDT Transport Stream Description Table
TV TeleVision
UI User Interface
USBD User Service Bundle Description
USD User Service Description
UTC Coordinated Universal Time
V2X Vehicular-to-Anything
VoD Video-on-Demand
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Context and Motivation
## 4.1 3GPP enhancement for TV service
**The Technical Report TR 22.816 [15] describes use cases, proposes
assumptions and potential requirements and analyses the gap in order to
enhance 3GPP systems for TV service support. The supported TV service
includes** linear TV, Live, Video on Demand, smart TV, and Over The Top (OTT)
content.
The Technical Report includes 20 use cases that are related to enhancements of
the 3GPP system for TV services. The use cases of specific relevance for
service layer, protocols and codecs are:
\- Use Case 1: UHD content delivery
\- Ultra-High Definition (UHD) content (3840 x 2160 resolutions) has been
widely supported by OTT providers and TV makers. The highest display
resolution supported by smart phone in the market is Quad HD (QHD, 2560 x 1440
resolutions). It is expected that display resolution of smart phone will keep
evolving and support UHD resolution in the future. It is also expected that 4K
TV can consume the UHD content from OTT providers via a UE.
\- UHD content delivery requires 8Mbps-20Mbps bandwidth in current deployed
fixed network(e.g. using H.265 @ 60fps).
\- UHD content delivery is expected to be supported by 3GPP network. The
recommended data rate for UHD content delivery is [8 Mbps-20 Mbps].
\- - Use Case 2: Concurrent UHD content delivery
\- Considering each OTT provider provides several live UHD 4K TV programs
concurrently, there are many OTT providers offering live UHD 4K TV programs at
the same time. User accesses to each live UHD 4K TV program per user\'s
preference/interest. Within a geographic region, several concurrent live UHD
4K TV programs are consumed by different user groups in parallel. To improve
user experience and use network capacity efficiently, it is expected to
deliver concurrent live UHD 4K TV programs using broadcast delivery method as
much as possible by 3GPP network.
\- In the broadcast industry, the number of concurrent broadcast channel in
the air is around 10 to 24 with HD (High Definition,720p) or SD (Standard
Definition,480i or 576i) resolution. The higher number of concurrent channel
is also foreseen. The exact concurrent channel number is subject to content
resolution, network capacity and user\'s watching behaviour.
\- Use Case 13: Service Layer Function and Codec Support
\- A TV Content Provider partners with an MNO to distribute a subset of the
channels offered on its DTT service.
\- Rather than re-encode all existing encoded content for mobile distribution
as per the profiles set out in the pre-Release 14 MBMS service layer, the
broadcaster partners with an MNO that enables a formats, codecs and service
layer functions suitable and necessary for the rebroadcast of existing content
which can comply with the regulatory requirements of the region.
\- Use Case 16: Decoupled eMBMS content, service and transport
\- A content provider partners with a MNO to distribute as subset of its
video/TV services offered by the content provider.
\- Rather than re-encode all existing encoded content for 3GPP-based
distribution as per the profiles set out in the MBMS service layer, and
transpose the service initialization metadata to the format provided by the
MBMS service layer, the content provider requests to be able to access only
the MBMS transport.
\- As a result, the MNO provides the facility for the content provider to feed
metadata and streamed content into the MNO core network for transport to a
population maintained by the content provider.
\- Use Case 19: Fixed Reception of TV Program
\- An MNO provides a TV service over an LTE network. A TV service consists of
one or more TV programmes and associated programme information. The TV service
may be a linear TV service, an on-demand TV service or a complementary offer
of both types. The MNO wants to make available these TV services by means of
stationary roof-top antennas in order to exploit the higher received signal
level achievable by such an antenna. For linear TV services, at least until
today fixed roof-top reception constitutes the bulk of service consumption in
many countries.
\- Use Case 20: Hybrid TV Delivery
\- A TV content provider provides hybrid TV delivery over a digital
terrestrial TV (DTT) network and a 3GPP network run by an MNO. The most
popular TV content is delivered over the DTT network using the technology
available (e.g. DVB-T). This DTT delivery is primarily targeting fixed
installations but can also be made available to mobile devices through for
instance WiFi access points. The on demand and long tail of less popular
scheduled or live content is delivered using unicast in the 3GPP network
targeting all kind of devices, while the most popular content reaching mobile
phones will be delivered in a separate broadcast in the MNO network.
\- The purpose with Hybrid delivery is to optimize for cost and spectral
efficiency, by configuring the networks so that broadcast is used only when
viewing volumes motivates it. The target is to ensure highly specialised
streams for each situation that are more efficient than a combined,
compromised stream.
**Other use cases may also partially affect** service layer, protocols and
codecs.
## 4.2 Stage-1 Service Requirements
**Based on the use cases collected in TR 22.816 [15] a set of stage-1 service
requirements are documented in TS 22.101 [14], clause 32. The use cases and
requirements encourage work on the different aspects of the 3GPP system,
including the radio access network, the service architecture as well as on the
service layer, protocol and codecs. The service requirements are reviewed in
clause 8 including a gap analysis against existing specification in Rel-14.**
## 4.3 Service Architecture Enhancements
The key requirements with primary focus to Service Layer, Protocol and Codecs
are summarized below. From the service requirements, the following
functionalities are expected to be supported by the 3GPP network and UE:
1) content delivery up to UHD resolution.
2) mechanisms to restrict the reception of some or all Subscribed TV services
to groups of subscribers (e.g. based on the recipients of the services are
subscribers of the MNO, roaming subscribers of other MNOs, or not subscribed
to any MNO).
3) combinations of SD, FHD and UHD resolution TV transport services.
4) flexible change between broadcast and unicast per traffic demand over the
same carrier.
5) support network broadcast geographic area coverage management considering
following criteria:
\- OTT provider request (including the potential coverage information of TV
service information)
\- available network unicast/broadcast capacity of 3GPP network
\- number of users under broadcast network coverage
\- The location information of UE
6) ability to deliver media content via unicast and broadcast in an efficient
manner.
7) capability of ensuring the timing sequence of different media content
received by different UEs at the same location, even via different transport
path, aligning with the timing sequence of TV service of the OTT provider in
order to maintain synchronism.
8) support audio and video formats typically supported by TV Content Providers
for SD and HD TV transport services and UHD TV transport services.
9) support codecs typically supported by TV Content Providers for HD TV
services and UHD TV services.
10) support accessibility functions typically supported by TV Content
Providers (e.g. subtitling, closed captioning, audio descriptions, anonymous
reception, reporting to support ratings, reporting enforcement, etc.).
11) regulatory mandates typically supported by TV Content Providers
(blackouts, emergency alerts, etc.).
12) interactivity functions typically supported by TV Content Providers
(interactive services, second screen, personalization, etc.).
13) ad insertion use cases typically supported by TV Content Providers
(targeted ad insertion, ad replacement, etc.),
14) encryption, security and conditional access functions typically supported
by TV Content Providers.
15) concurrent delivery of multiple application components (TV service
application signalling, statistical multiplexing, etc.).
16) random access and channel change times comparable to existing HD TV
services.
17) TV service content delivery over broadcast only, unicast only and
combinations of the two.
18) delivery of real-time and non-real-time content.
19) enable extensibility and forward-compatibility to new requirements,
formats, codecs and other functions to the extent possible.
20) ability to transport TV streams formatted not compliant to 3GPP standards.
21) Ability to access an eMBMS transport session with the support of only
transport metadata.
22) Ability to be initiated by a UE with sufficient metadata provided by a
mechanism other than User Service Description for non 3GPP transport services.
**Based on these requirements, several 3GPP specification have been updated to
support different features:**
\- Standardized xMB interface towards the (TV) content provider
\- Unified framework for service type negotiations and agreements with content
providers
\- Enables dynamic service/session establishment
\- Extensible to other types of content and content providers (V2X etc.)
\- Receive-only mode
\- Receive Only mode: enable devices without SIM card or 3GPP subscription
\- Expand the reach of MBMS into traditional TV receivers
\- Enable Free-to-Air content broadcast over MBMS
\- Receive Only mode with independent unicast: enable interactive services
feeding off of TV live broadcast
\- Opportunity for more cost-effective data plans for mobile TV (bundled
plans)
\- Transport-only mode (also referred to in TS 23.746 [16] as \"MBMS Service
Type 1\", or \"Transport only mode\")
\- Provide pass-through MBMS bearer service type
\- Enable TV broadcasters to provide the content via MBMS in the native format
without transcoding
\- Simple receiver design
\- Use MBMS network as common delivery platform for different content types
and services
\- Shared MBMS Broadcast
\- Operators can aggregate their MBMS networks into a shared MBMS content
distribution platform
\- Avoid broadcasting the same content at the same time over different
networks
\- Improve coverage, bandwidth efficiency
**For this purpose the following specifications are updated in Release-14:**
\- 3GPP TS 23.246 [22] MBMS Architecture (Annex D and Annex E)
\- 3GPP TS 26.346 [14] MBMS Protocols and Codecs
\- 3GPP TS 26.347 [23] MBMS APIs and URL
\- 3GPP TS 29.116 [24] xMB Interface
\- 3GPP TS 24.117 [25] TV Service Configuration Management Object
\- 3GPP TS 24.116 [26] Stage 3 aspects of MBMS service for Receive Only Mode
## 4.4 Radio Access Network Enhancements
In order to support enhanced TV services, radio access network enhancements
were introduced in 3GPP TS 36.201 [20] and 3GPP TS 36.211 [21]. A brief
summary the following extensions are provided:
\- Support of larger inter-site distance: Larger cyclic prefix (**200 µs**)
designed to cover 15 km Inter-Site-Distance (ISD), Target spectral efficiency
of **2 bps/Hz** with rooftop antennas, and introduction of an intermediate
numerology with **33 µs** CP (Cyclic Prefix).
\- Dedicated or mixed MBMS carrier: Mixed unicast/broadcast from same carrier,
up to 100% MBMS allocation, and a self-contained system information and sync
signals for dedicated carriers.
\- Different types of devices: Enhanced support for roof-top reception,
handheld devices and car-mounted antenna, as well as multiple numerologies (15
kHz, 7.5 kHz and 1.25 kHz) designed for different deployment/mobility
scenarios.
\- New subframe type: New type of MBSFN subframe without unicast control
region to reduces overhead in MBMS transmissions with respect to previous
releases.
\- Shared MBMS Broadcast: Operators can aggregate their MBMS networks into a
shared MBMS content distribution platform. This avoids broadcasting the same
content at the same time over different networks and therefore improves
coverage and bandwidth efficiency.
## 4.5 Objective of the present document
In order to address the use cases and service requirements, also taking into
account the context of other 3GPP system aspects, this technical report
addresses:
\- Functionalities that are fulfilled by existing service layers and essential
service layer functions that need to be provided by 3GPP systems in clause 5.
\- Relevant service layer centric use cases in order to prioritize the work
and address relevant gaps and optimization potentials in clause 6. In addition
also working assumptions, recommended requirements and potential solutions are
discussed for each use case.
\- Architectural considerations, taking into account the existing service
architecture and any enhancements done in the context of the service
requirements documented in TS 22.101 [14] in clause 7.
\- A gap analysis and proposed solutions wrt to the stage 1 service
requirements in clause 8.
\- Conclusions and recommendations for potentially normative work in clause 9.
# 5 Existing TV Service Layers and Essential Functionalities for TV Services
## 5.1 Introduction
In order to replicate functionalities provided by existing TV Service Layers,
this clause collects the service model and functionalities of existing and
deployed TV services in clause 5.2. Based on this, essential TV service layer
functionalities are extracted and summarized in clause 5.3.
## 5.2 Existing Service Layer Functions
### 5.2.1 Introduction
This clause provides an overview of broadcast TV service layer functionality
as defined in DVB and ATSC, with focus on service level signaling. Broadcast
TV service layer functionality described in the present document are defined
by two different organizations/SDOs:
1) DVB/ETSI, in the form of _Service Information_ (SI) associated with TV
services delivery over DVB-T/T2 systems (as well as via satellite and cable
network distribution), and
2) ATSC, via _Service Signaling_ for TV services delivery over ATSC 3.0
defined transport.
### 5.2.2 Broadcast TV Service Signaling
With some functional similarity to MBMS User Service Announcement/Discovery
metadata [14], DVB has defined Service Information (SI) that is carried in the
broadcast bitstreams. A portion of the SI contains information to assist end
user selection of services and/or programs within the bitstream, and is
specified in ETSI EN 300 468 [2]. Another portion of the SI enables automatic
configuration of the TV receiver (referred to as an Integrated Receiver
Decoder, or IRD) for reception of the selected service, and is mostly
specified in ISO/IEC 13818-1 [3] as Program Specific Information (PSI).
Similar to the DVB SI, ATSC, in A/331 [4] has defined service signaling, in
two functional tiers. The lower layer, referred to as _Low Level Signaling_
(LLS), enables rapid acquisition of basic service information by the receiver,
and provides auxiliary metadata to the receiver such as system time, content
rating, and emergency alert related information. The upper layer signaling,
referred to as _Service Layer Signaling_ (SLS) contains basic information for
the user to perform service selection, as well as provides various transport
and content level information for the receiver to download and process content
components of the selected service. There is considerable similarities between
SLS metadata fragments and the MBMS User Service Announcement/Discovery
fragments, as described below in clause 4.
### 5.2.3 DVB
#### 5.2.3.1 General Description
DVB\'s generic service delivery model, which depicts service distribution not
only over terrestrial broadcast TV networks, but also via satellite and cable
systems, is shown in Figure 1 below:
Figure 1: DVB Service Delivery Model
In DVB, a network consists of one or more Transport Streams that are broadcast
by the same entity. A Transport Stream (TS) is an MPEG-2 stream containing
several services, and each service is a TV channel, comprising a series of
events one after the other. In DVB standards, the term \"service\" is
synonymous to a TV channel. Each event is a single TV show, and consists of a
number of elementary streams, where each elementary stream is a packetized
MPEG-2 stream containing MPEG-2 encoded audio, video or binary data. The SI is
one type of binary data carried in the TS. Multiple services, possibly from
several different Transport Streams, can be grouped together logically in a
_bouquet_. Every service in a DVB network can be uniquely identified by three
values. These values are the _original network ID_ (the ID of the network that
originally broadcast the service), the _Transport Stream ID_ (to identify a
particular TS from that network) and the _service ID_ to identify a service
within that TS. The structure of a DVB Transport Stream is shown in Figure 2.
Figure 2: DVB Service Delivery Model
#### 5.2.3.2 DVB SI
DVB SI, as specified in ETSI TS 101 211 [5], is a set of binary-coded
signaling tables which describe the delivery system, and the content and
scheduling/timing of services and events. It includes some of the MPEG-2
Program Specific Information (PSI) as defined in ISO/IEC 13818-1 [3], along
with DVB-defined extensions which, collectively, describe the contents of
Transport Stream packets for the purpose of the multiplexing and presentation
of programs. The overall structure of the DVB SI tables is shown below in
Figure 3.
Figure 3: Structure of DVB Service Information
The full names of the DVB SI Tables as given by their abbreviations in Figure
3 are listed below, and described in clause 3.2:
\- PAT -- Program Association Table
\- PMT -- Program Map Table
\- CAT -- Conditional Access Table
\- TSDT -- Transport Stream Description Table
\- NIT -- Network Information Table
\- TDT -- Time and Date Table
\- SDT -- Service Description Table
\- EIT -- Event Information Table
\- TOT -- Time Offset Table
\- BAT -- Bouquet Association Table
\- RST -- Running Status Table
\- ST -- Stuffing Table
Since DVB SI tables can sometimes be quite large, they are split to fit inside
a transport packet. Each such segment of data is known as a _section_ , which
may be variable in length, and can be used to hold any type of binary data,
not just SI tables. The section number, an 8-bit field, is incremented each
time a new table section is sent. The maximum number of sections per table is
256. The section length for all tables is 1021 bytes, except for the EIT
(Event Information Table) which is 4096\. Each section is uniquely identified
by the combination of:
\- table_id,
\- table_id_extension,
\- section_number,
\- version_number, and
\- current_next_indicator.
Sections that contain data and not audio or video streams are typically known
as _private sections_ , even when the data format is publicly known. These
sections mostly follow a standard format. Each SI table section may contain
one or more _descriptors_ to provide extended information. Each descriptor
will include an 8-bit _descriptor_tag_ field identifying the descriptor, and
an 8-bit _descriptor_length_ field specifying the total size of the data
portion of the descriptor following this field. The complete set of DVB SI
descriptors, and in which SI tables these may be included, is shown in Table
12 in clause 6.1 of ETSI EN 300 468 [2].
Four of these SI tables, namely the Program Association Table (PAT), Program
Map Table (PMT), Conditional Access Table (CAT), and the Transport Stream
Description Table (TSDT), originate from and are identical to the Program
Specific Information (PSI) tables with the same names as specified in ISO/IEC
13818-1 [3]. As shown in Figure 3, the mandatory SI tables in DVB system
implementations are the PAT, PMT, NIT (Network Information Table) for the
current network, TDT (Time and Data Table) and the SDT (Service Description
Table) for the present document.
### 5.2.4 ATSC 3.0
#### 5.2.4.1 General Description
ATSC 3.0 service delivery model is based on service signaling and IP-based
delivery of a variety of ATSC 3.0 services and contents to ATSC 3.0-capable
receivers over broadcast, broadband and hybrid broadcast/broadband networks.
Service signaling corresponds to the data formats and information components
necessary to discover and acquire:
\- Linear services -- (e.g., linear TV or radio services).
\- Application-based services -- non-linear services based on applications
that provide the User Interface (UI) and functionality of the service, e.g.,
Video on-Demand (VoD) content items such as catch-up TV episodes.
\- Data services -- services for which the primary content consists of
discrete or continuous content items that might be delivered via broadcast and
locally cached for time-shifted consumption, or retrieved via unicast for
immediate consumption.
ATSC 3.0 service signaling is used for service discovery and acquisition. ATSC
3.0 service signaling is composed of LLS (Low Level Signaling) and SLS
(Service Layer Signaling). The SLT (Service List Table) is a service signaling
table as one of the LLS signaling tables. The SLT lists all ATSC 3.0 services
delivered via the broadcast stream in which SLT is being delivered, and the
combination of SLT and the SLS information is required for the discovery and
acquisition of ATSC 3.0 services. Its Service Layer Signaling (SLS) component
is functionally equivalent to the user service announcement/discovery
functionality and metadata as defined for MBMS. ATSC 3.0 also defines an
electronic service guide (ESG), referred to as \"Service Announcement\" in
ATSC terminology, and is based on the OMA BCAST Service Guide [6] with certain
restrictions and extensions. The ATSC 3.0 ESG data model is described in the
A/332 standard [7]. The ESG, as an application layer function, is mainly
intended for consumption by the end user, whereas service signaling is for use
by the receiver device to discover the location and acquire the content
components of the user-selected service in the broadcast stream. Despite the
logical separation between ATSC 3.0\'s service signaling and service guide
metadata, there is a core linkage between them in the form of a globally-
unique service identifier, present in the SLT for each of the ATSC 3.0
services available to the end user. Because 3GPP\'s interest is primarily on
the service signaling function of the broadcast TV service layer, the ESG will
not be further discussed in the present document.
The IP-based delivery functionality specifies two application transport
protocols for the carriage of media content and service signaling data over
broadcast and/or broadband networks to receivers: MMTP (MPEG Media Transport
Protocol) as defined in ISO/IEC 23008-1 [8] and profiled in ATSC A/331 [4],
and ROUTE (**Real-Time Object Delivery over Unidirectional Transport) as
specified in** A/331 [4]. The delivery functionality also includes mechanisms
for the synchronization of media components delivered on the same or different
transport networks, and application-layer forward error correction methods
that enable error-free reception and consumption of media streams or discrete
file objects.
As indicated, a primary difference between ATSC 3.0 and DVB-T/T2 service
delivery operation is the native use in ATSC 3.0 of IP for the packetization
and transport of service contents over the broadcast channel, vs. the use of
MPEG-2 TS based encapsulation and delivery of service contents over the
broadcast network in DVB-T/T2.
The ATSC 3.0 protocol stack model is shown in Figure 4.
Figure 4: Conceptual Protocol Stack Model of ATSC 3.0
Service Signaling in ATSC 3.0 provides service discovery and description
information, and comprises two main functional components: Low Level Signaling
(LLS) providing bootstrap information for fast channel acquisition, and
Service Layer Signaling (SLS) providing detailed service discovery and
acquisition information for the ATSC 3.0 receiver device. Five basic types of
ATSC 3.0 services are defined:
1) Linear Audio/Video Service.
2) Linear Audio-Only Service
3) App-Based Service.
4) ESG (Electronic Service Guide) Service.
5) EA (Emergency Alert) Service.
Linear services may be carried by the ROUTE or MMTP protocol, whereas app-
based services, the ESG service, and the EA service are strictly delivered
using the ROUTE protocol.
Each ROUTE session comprises one or more LCT channels which carry as a whole,
or in part, the content components that make up the ATSC 3.0 service. In
streaming services delivery, an LCT channel may carry an individual component
of a user service such as an audio, video or closed caption stream. Streaming
media as DASH Segments is formatted per the DASH/ATSC profile [9] of MPEG DASH
[10], produced by the DASH-IF, as DASH Segments. Each MMTP session comprises
one or more MMTP packet flows which carry MMT signaling messages or as a
whole, or in part, the content component. An MMTP packet flow may carry MMT
signaling messages or components formatted per ISO/IEC 23008-1 [8] as MPUs.
Figure 5 illustrates the types of services and their constituent content
components as defined for ATSC 3.0:
Figure 5: Conceptual model of ATSC 3.0 Services and Constituent Content
Components
#### 5.2.4.2 Service Signaling
##### 5.2.4.2.1 Introduction
The combination of the ATSC 3.0 LLS and SLS metadata will be considered in the
functional comparison with/mapping to MBMS User Service Announcement
information (the \'USD\').
##### 5.2.4.2.2 Low Level Signaling
The LLS represents service signaling information which supports rapid channel
scans and bootstrapping of service acquisition by the receiver. There are five
types of LLS information, each carried in the form of a LLS Table:
**\- Service List Table (SLT).** The SLT supports a rapid channel scan which
allows a receiver to build a list of all the services it can receive, with
their channel name, channel number, etc., and provides bootstrap information
to enable the receiver to discover the SLS for each service. For ROUTE/DASH-
delivered services, the bootstrap information includes the destination IP
address and destination port of the LCT channel that carries the SLS.
**\- Rating Region Table (RRT).** The RRT is an XML instance document, one or
more of which may be contained in the broadcast emission for a given ATSC 3.0
service, each corresponding to a particular identified value of a _Rating
Region_ (for example, United States, Canada, Mexico, Korea). Each RRT instance
contains content advisory rating information, in the form of both an integer
value and human-readable string, according to one or more _dimensions_
(\"violence\", \"comedy\", etc.), with each dimension comprising one more
levels.
**\- SystemTime fragment.** The System Time fragment is an XML document that
carries auxiliary, time-related information with respect to the system time
delivered in the ATSC 3.0 PHY layer (a 32-bit count of the number of seconds
and a 10-bit fraction of a second (in units of milliseconds) since January 1,
1970 00:00:00, International Atomic Time (TAI), which is the Precision Time
Protocol (PTP) epoch as defined in IEEE 1588 [11]). The auxiliary data carried
in this fragment includes time offset between the TAI and UTC, time offset
between UTC and the time zone of the originating broadcast station, leap
second information, and Daylight Savings Time status. The System Time fragment
is functionally similar to the combination of the TDT and TOT in the DVB SI.
**\- AEAT (Advanced Emergency Alert Table).** An XML document that describes
an advanced emergency alert mechanism including the emergency alert text
banner and associated AEA (Advanced Emergency Alert) rich media resources
delivered through an ATSC 3.0 Emergency Alert (EA) service.
**\- Onscreen Message Notification fragment.** An XML document that indicates
to a receiver the broadcaster\'s preference for the receiver to avoid
obscuring any part of the video images.
##### 5.2.4.2.3 Service Layer Signaling
SLS provides information for discovery and acquisition of ATSC 3.0 services
and their content components. Taking for example the use of ROUTE as the
application transport protocols for broadband and unicast delivery of ATSC 3.0
services, and DASH as the streaming media format, the SLS for the
ROUTE/HTTP/DASH system (\"ROUTE/DASH\" for short) includes the User Service
Bundle Description (USBD), the S-TSID (Service-based Transport Session
Instance Description), the DASH Media Presentation Description (MPD), the HTML
Entry packages Location Description (HELD), the Distribution Window
Description (DWD) and optionally the Associated Procedure Description (APD).
Similar to the MBMS USD, each of these SLS fragments is instantiated as an XML
document. The data model of the ROUTE SLS information is shown in Figure 6:
Figure 6: SLS Data Model for ROUTE/DASH
Notice the similarities between the ROUTE/DASH SLS and that of the MBMS USD
data models. Substantial effort was undertaken in the development of A/331 [4]
to align with MBMS service signaling where possible and practical. Table 1
provides a brief description for each of the SLS fragments for ROUTE/DASH.
Table 1: Summary Descriptions of ROUTE/DASH SLS Fragments in ATSC 3.0
* * *
SLS Fragment Name Functional Description Comments USBD \"Entry point\" SLS
fragment, providing basic information for a single ATSC 3.0 service, such as
service ID, name, language and status (active/inactive), and identifies the
delivery method(s) for the service Based on MBMS\' USBD, but contains fewer
parameters. Information in the ATSC USBD are assumed to be generally static.
S-TSID A sort of aggregated Service Description Fragment for the multiple
content components of the ATSC 3.0 service described by the USBD, and in which
the ATSC 3.0\'s File Delivery Table, referred to as \'EFDT\', or Extended FDT,
may be either embedded or referenced. Centralized as opposed to the
distributed SDPs as employed in the MBMS USD for describing the transport and
AL-FEC information for the different content components. Another key
difference is to enable out-of-band and advanced delivery of FDT Instance
parameters prior to the delivery session of the content the FDT describes MPD
In the case of DASH-formatted services, the DASH MPD, delivered as a metadata
fragment, to be forwarded by the receiver platform/middleware to the DASH
client in the receiver Identical function as the Media Presentation
Description fragment in MBMS USD HELD In the event that an ATSC 3.0 service
contains one or more app-based enhancements, this signaling fragment contains
application-related metadata which enables a runtime environment to execute an
application associated with the ATSC 3.0 service and defines the application
life cycle. Similar functionality to the AIT in HbbTV, but contains fewer
parameters. DWD Optional metadata fragment to indicate the schedule of
delivery of application files via ROUTE.  
APD Optional metadata fragment in support of file repair Only file repair
functionality is specified at this time in the ATSC 3.0 APD (i.e., it does not
contain reception reporting or consumption reporting signaling)
* * *
## 5.3 Typical Functionalities for TV Services
Based on the DVB and ATSC service model, the following functionalities are
typical for TV Services:
\- TV Service: The definition of a service that is typically real-time and
continuous and can be accessed at well-known entry points. Typically TV
services are linear, but also app-based and data services have been introduced
recently to adapt to new consumption and delivery models. Services and related
access information are explicitly described in service signalling such as DVB
SI or ATSC 3.0 SLS.
\- Multiplex: a physical grouping of TV services that are sub-grouped as
interleaved data packets for broadcast over a network or modulated on a
multiplexed medium.
\- Bouquet or service bundle: A logical grouping of services, for example the
services offered from one broadcaster.
\- Program: a segment of content intended for broadcast, other than a
commercial, trailer, or any other segment of content not serving as attraction
for viewership. It may be a single production, or more commonly, a series of
related productions (also called a television show).
\- Event: Schedule information of programs within a TV service that can be
referenced from external, for example by an EPG.
\- Media Components: Programs are composed of content components of different
media types. Typical media types are audio, video, subtitles, and other data
such as graphics or images. Media components are explicitly defined in service
signaling.
\- Notifications and alerts: In TV services, notifications and alerts may be
used to inform users about non-media related events such emergency alerts,
etc. Notifications may also be targeted for device or application consumption,
for example, as indication of the occurrence of interactivity events in the
course of a linear TV program.
\- Conditional Access or Digital Rights Management: Conditional access
(abbreviated CA) or conditional access system (abbreviated CAS) or Digital
Rights Management (DRM) refer to the protection and control of content
consumption, for example by requiring certain criteria to be met before
granting access to the content/service/program, or imposing rules regarding
the consumption or storage of service content.
\- Content advisory ratings: program attribute(s) that describe the associated
content, for the purposes of parental control or personalization. Content
advisory ratings are usually region-specific.
# 6 Use Cases
## 6.1 Introduction
This clause collects a set of use cases that are, beyond those defined in **TR
22.816 [15] and documented** in clause 4.1, emphasize service layer aspects.
## 6.2 TV Service Delivery over eMBMS
### 6.2.1 Description
A broadcast TV service provider \'ZZZZ\', i.e., TV broadcaster, wishes to
enable reception of its DTT (Digital Terrestrial TV) services on eMBMS UEs.
These UEs are assumed to contain both the eMBMS radio receiver/modem and the
eMBMS client or middleware functions. Examples of such UEs are LTE Broadcast
capable handsets or tablets which already contain the MBMS client, as well as
fixed TV sets which contain both eMBMS radio receiver and eMBMS client
functions. ZZZZ wishes for certain native DTT service layer syntax and
semantics employed in DTT networks such as DVB-T or DVB-T2 to be employed in
service delivery over the eMBMS network to UEs. These may include, for
example:
\- DTT identifier formats of service bundles, individual services, and
programs within a service;
\- Country-based service availability control;
\- End-user specific description of services and programs (i.e., EPG
functionality);
\- Identification of media components of a service or program;
\- Time-shifting characteristics of Near Video-On-Demand (NVOD) service
offerings;
\- Parental rating information;
\- Signaling of interactive applications associated with a DTT service.
The TV broadcaster realizes that because the receiving device will utilize
MBMS service layer functions for reception of the DTT services, some form of
translation will be required from native DTT service layer functionality to
that of the MBMS service layer, for the associated service delivery over an
eMBMS system. It also realizes that native DTT media encoding and
encapsulation formats will need to be converted to 3GPP media encoding and
encapsulation formats.
### 6.2.2 Working Assumptions
The following set of working assumptions are applicable to this use case:
\- DTT services will be delivered over the eMBMS system as MBMS User Services,
and carried over MBMS bearers.
\- The method of DTT service delivery over eMBMS in this case is also referred
to as \"MBMS Service Type 2: Full MBMS service mode\", as described in TR
23.746 [16].
\- Targeted devices for reception of such DTT-over-eMBMS service delivery will
contain at minimum the eMBMS radio receiver and the eMBMS client.
\- The MBMS service layer, for example MBMS USD functionality, may need to be
extended to support certain native DTT service capabilities not currently
defined by 3GPP, in TS 26.346.
\- Transcoding of native DTT media encoding format to 3GPP media encoding
format may need to be performed for DTT-over-eMBMS service delivery.
\- Conversion via de-capsulation and re-encapsulation of native DTT transport
formats to 3GPP transport formats may need to be performed for DTT-over-eMBMS
service delivery.
\- Implementation mechanisms and network location of where media transcoding
and re-formatting, and service layer translation functionality occur may
depend on the details of a standardized network interface between the TV
broadcaster and the eMBMS network operator.
\- An example network architecture showing the media encoding and format
conversion as well as service layer translation from DTT Service Information
to MBMS USD could be as represented by Figure 7 below:
Figure 7: Example DTT-over-eMBMS Service Delivery Network Architecture
### 6.2.3 Available Enablers and Gap Analysis
A tabulation of the functions potentially provided by the DVB SI tables BAT
(Bouquet Association Table), SDT (Service Description Table) and EIT (Event
Information Table), which will be shown later in this section to be among the
key DVB SI tables whose functionality are missing in the MBMS USD is provided
in Table 2. The set of _descriptors_ , or distinct service signaling
functional components, which may reside in these tables (some of which are
mandatory and others optional to implement by DVB broadcasters) is shown in
Table 2. These descriptors, as described in ETSI EN 300 468 [2], provide the
basis for the gap analysis whose results are given in Table 3.
Table 2: Descriptor (service signalling components)
{width="4.043055555555555in" height="5.759027777777778in"}
Table 3 below contains descriptions of all the DVB SI tables. These include
the signaling tables as defined in ETSI EN 300 468 [2] and associated with
classical, receive-only linear TV services, as well as the Application
Information Table which signal interactive applications associated with TV
services/programs consumed on hybrid broadcast/broadband TV sets. For each DVB
SI table, Table 6.2 in ETSI EN 300 468 [2] provides:
\- Identification of the MBMS User Service Discovery/Announcement, or
collective \"USD\" metadata and other related MBMS service layer mechanisms,
that provides similar functionality to that SI table.
\- Indication of whether the SI table functionality is necessary to enable
acquisition by the receiver and consumption by the user, and in accordance to
rules/requirements set by the broadcaster, content provider, or regulatory
organizations, of the nominal TV service content when delivered by eMBMS as
opposed to DVB-T/T2 as the broadcast technology.
\- Determination of existing gaps in MBMS service signaling relative to the
DVB SI functionality considered essential for supporting broadcast TV services
delivery.
NOTE: Portions of DVB SI\'s BAT, SDT and EIT convey EPG functionality for
display to the end-user. The MBMS USD primarily conveys transport signaling
for use by the MBMS receiver to acquire service contents. It is not designed
to contain, and for the MBMS client to process, application service specific
information such as EPG metadata.
Table 3: Comparison between DVB SI and MBMS USD Functionality
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Table Name | Functional | Similar or | Relevant | Gaps in | | | Description | Equivalent | Metadata to | 3GPP/MBMS | | | | Function in | Provide in | Service | | | | 3GPP/MBMS | 3GPP/MBMS | Layer? | | | | Service | Service | | | | | Layer | Layer? | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PAT | Provides | NONE | NO -- | NO | | (Program | Packet ID | | represents | | | Association | (PID) | (not | component | (n/a for | | Table) | values of | applicable) | of service | eMBMS) | | | TS packets | | discovery | | | | carrying | | bootstrap | | | | the PMT | | mechanism | | | | (Program | | used in | | | | Map Table) | | MPEG-2 TS | | | | | | which is | | | | | | completely | | | | | | different | | | | | | from | | | | | | bo | | | | | | otstrapping | | | | | | in native | | | | | | IP service | | | | | | delivery | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PMT | Identifies | NONE | same as | NO | | (Program | and | | above | | | Map Table) | indicates | (not | | (n/a for | | | the | applicable) | | eMBMS) | | | locations | | | | | | (PID | | | | | | values) of | | | | | | Transport | | | | | | Streams | | | | | | that make | | | | | | up each | | | | | | service and | | | | | | the | | | | | | location of | | | | | | the Program | | | | | | Clock | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | fields for | | | | | | a service | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Conditional | Provides | USD\'s | YES -- for | YES -- if | | Access | info on the | Security | content | CA-based | | Table (CAT) | CA systems | Description | protection | content | | | used in the | supports | of | protection | | | multiplex | service | broadcast | will be | | | | protection; | TV services | supported | | | | reference | carried | | | | | to MPEG | over eMBMS | NO -- if | | | | Common | | DRM-based | | | | Encryption | | content | | | | (ISO/IEC | | protection | | | | 23001-7) | | via CENC | | | | [4] for | | would | | | | DAS | | suffice | | | | H-over-MBMS | | | | | | service | | Note: | | | | supports | | DVB\'s | | | | content | | registered | | | | protection; | | CA system | | | | absence of | | IDs, as | | | | any | | shown in | | | | metadata | | http://w | | | | that | | ww.dvbservi | | | | identifies | | ces.com/ide | | | | CA systems | | ntifiers/ca | | | | as defined | | _system_id | | | | in DVB | | include: | | | | | | | | | | | | OMA BCAST | | | | | | 1.0 (U)SIM | | | | | | Smartcard | | | | | | Profile | | | | | | using 3GPP | | | | | | GBA_U, and | | | | | | | | | | | | OMA BCAST | | | | | | 1.0 (U)SIM | | | | | | Smartcard | | | | | | Profile | | | | | | using 3GPP | | | | | | GBA_ME | | | | | | | | | | | | If these | | | | | | GBA-based | | | | | | CA systems | | | | | | are | | | | | | acceptable | | | | | | by DVB | | | | | | br | | | | | | oadcasters, | | | | | | MBMS | | | | | | service | | | | | | layer and | | | | | | security, | | | | | | with | | | | | | associated | | | | | | e | | | | | | nhancements | | | | | | (i.e. | | | | | | support for | | | | | | OMA BCAST | | | | | | [5] | | | | | | defined | | | | | | LTKM and | | | | | | STKM as | | | | | | extension | | | | | | to MSK and | | | | | | MTK | | | | | | messages in | | | | | | MBMS | | | | | | security | | | | | | per TS | | | | | | 33.246 | | | | | | [6] would | | | | | | suffice in | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | DVB CA. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Network | Provide | NONE | NO -- | NO | | Information | information | | totally | | | Table (NIT) | about the | (not | different | (n/a for | | | physical | applicable) | PHY layers | eMBMS) | | | network, | | and | | | | incl. | | co | | | | syntax and | | rresponding | | | | semantics | | parameters | | | | | | between | | | | | | DVB-T and | | | | | | eMBMS | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Time and | Provides | BM-SC | YES -- | NO | | Date Table | present UTC | offers SNTP | existing | | | (TDT) | time and | time server | MBMS | (capability | | | date info, | for use by | service | already | | | which may | the MBMS | layer | exists) | | | be used to | UEs to | capability | | | | synchronize | synchronize | to support | | | | the | its clock | accurate | | | | receiver\'s | with the | sync | | | | internal | BM-SC | hronization | | | | clock. The | | of | | | | receiver | | receiver\'s | | | | displays | | clock to | | | | the time | | that of | | | | based on | | BM-SC, | | | | the | | necessary | | | | information | | for service | | | | of this | | reception | | | | table. | | and | | | | | | rendering | | | | | | to user | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Bouquet | Listing and | USBD | YES -- it | YES | | Association | description | fragment, | should be | | | Table (BAT) | of a group | for which | possible to | USBD | | | of | the service | indicate a | currently | | | services, | bundle may | TV service | lacks | | | which may | comprise a | offering to | service | | | be carried | single or | the end | pac | | | in multiple | multiple | user as a | kage/bundle | | | TSs and | services | bundle of | level | | | which could | | multiple TV | information | | | be carried | | servic | as provided | | | in multiple | | es/channels | by the BAT | | | networks, | | | | | | that a | | | It should | | | receiver | | | be further | | | presents as | | | studied | | | a single | | | whether and | | | service | | | how MBMS | | | package to | | | service | | | a user | | | layer | | | | | | should be | | | | | | enhanced to | | | | | | support EPG | | | | | | fu | | | | | | nctionality | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Service | Describe | USBD | YES -- it | YES | | Description | services | fragment, | may be | | | Table (SDT) | that are | which | desirabl | USBD | | | contained | provides | e/necessary | currently | | | within a | basic MBMS | to provide | lacks those | | | particular | User | such | additional | | | TS, | Service | additional | se | | | including | information | info to | rvice-level | | | the service | such as | enable | information | | | name, | service ID, | receiver | as provided | | | service | name and | acquisition | by the SDT | | | provider, | language, | and user | | | | service | but lacks | selection | It should | | | running | support for | of services | be further | | | status, and | carrying | without | studied | | | whether the | co | requiring | whether and | | | service is | mprehensive | the use of | how MBMS | | | encrypted, | info | a | service | | | whether EIT | available | prog | layer | | | (Event | in SDT | ram/service | should be | | | Information | (e.g. | guide | enhanced to | | | Table) | service | | support EPG | | | schedule is | type, | | fu | | | present in | textual | | nctionality | | | the present | service | | | | | document | identifier, | | | | | | service | | | | | | provider | | | | | | name, | | | | | | alerts, | | | | | | component | | | | | | d | | | | | | escription, | | | | | | tim | | | | | | e-shifting, | | | | | | CA system | | | | | | ID, country | | | | | | av | | | | | | ailability, | | | | | | linkage to | | | | | | other info | | | | | | about | | | | | | current | | | | | | service, | | | | | | etc. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Event | Contains | Essentially | YES -- it | YES | | Information | schedule | NONE, | may be | | | Table (EIT) | info about | although | desirabl | MBMS USD | | | events | scheduling | e/necessary | metadata | | | (i.e. TV | info in EIT | to provide | fragments | | | programs) | is in part | such | currently | | | in a | provided by | additional | does not | | | service, | the USD\'s | info to | include | | | such as | Schedule | enable | pr | | | event ID, | Description | receiver | ogram-level | | | start time, | fragment | acquisition | information | | | duration, | | and user | as provided | | | running | | selection | by the EIT | | | status, | | of programs | | | | scrambling | | without | It should | | | indication, | | separate | be further | | | etc. A | | delivery of | studied | | | large set | | a | whether and | | | of | | prog | how MBMS | | | additional | | ram/service | service | | | information | | guide | layer | | | on each | | | should be | | | event can | | | enhanced to | | | be provided | | | support EPG | | | by | | | fu | | | descriptors | | | nctionality | | | included in | | | | | | the EIT, | | | | | | such as | | | | | | event name | | | | | | and textual | | | | | | d | | | | | | escription, | | | | | | genre/clas | | | | | | sification, | | | | | | component | | | | | | and content | | | | | | de | | | | | | scriptions, | | | | | | linkage to | | | | | | additional | | | | | | info about | | | | | | the event, | | | | | | parental | | | | | | rating, | | | | | | tim | | | | | | e-shifting, | | | | | | etc. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Time Offset | Provides | NONE | MAYBE, | MAYBE | | Table (TOT) | information | | should this | | | | relating to | | information | If time | | | the present | | be deemed | offset info | | | time and | | important | is | | | date and | | and | necessary | | | local time | | typically | to be | | | offset | | carried in | provided | | | | | DVB SI | for DVB | | | | | | broadcast | | | | | | TV services | | | | | | delivery | | | | | | over eMBMS | | | | | | | | | | | | Needs | | | | | | further | | | | | | study. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Running | Provides | NONE | YES -- to | YES | | Status | accurate | | announce | | | Table (RST) | and rapid | | dynamic | It should | | | updating of | | schedule | be possible | | | the timing | | changes in | for USD | | | status of | | airing of | metadata to | | | one or more | | programs | indicate | | | events in a | | | dynamic | | | service, | | | temporal | | | i.e., | | | changes in | | | running, | | | the | | | not | | | delivery of | | | running, | | | broadcast | | | starts in a | | | programs | | | few | | | | | | seconds, | | | | | | pausing, | | | | | | service is | | | | | | off-air). | | | | | | RST may be | | | | | | necessary | | | | | | for events | | | | | | which start | | | | | | early or | | | | | | late due to | | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | changes. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Stuffing | Provides | Inband | YES -- to | NO | | Table (ST) | the means | delivery of | enable | | | | to replace | USD | dynamic | Fu | | | or | fragments | updating of | nctionality | | | invalidate | to | service | is already | | | either | dynamically | signaling | supported | | | sub-tables | update an | information | by inband | | | or complete | existing | | USD | | | SI tables | fragment, | | metadata | | | | in case the | | fragment | | | | nominal | | delivery | | | | validity | | | | | | time of the | | | | | | current | | | | | | fragment, | | | | | | as given in | | | | | | the | | | | | | metadata | | | | | | envelope | | | | | | has not yet | | | | | | expired | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Application | Provides | No | YES -- MBMS | YES | | Information | information | explicitly | service | | | Table (AIT) | about | defined | layer | It should | | | interactive | functional | should | be possible | | | application | counterpart | support the | for USD | | | associated | in MBMS USD | DVB and | metadata to | | | with the | to the AIT. | HbbTV model | support the | | | broadcast | | of | signaling | | | TV service | | discovery, | of | | | | | acquisition | interactive | | | | | and life | application | | | | | cycle | associated | | | | | control of | with DTT | | | | | TV | services | | | | | se | and | | | | | rvice-bound | programs | | | | | application | contained | | | | | services | within each | | | | | | service | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 6.2.4 Optimization Potentials
As shown in Table 6.1 in ETSI EN 300 468 [2], the functionality of a number of
DVB SI tables are not applicable for the delivery of DTT services as MBMS User
Services over eMBMS. Certain SI information, for example, as contained in the
NIT (Network Information Table), are specific to DVB physical and network
layer mechanisms and irrelevant in the carriage of broadcast TV service
contents over LTE Broadcast systems, with different physical, link and network
layer definitions. Also, since the encapsulation format of streaming media
content carried over MBMS bearers will be converted from MPEG-2 Transport
Stream to DASH, SI tables associated with the discovery and identification of
media content and service signaling components carried in MPEG-2 Transport
Streams are not applicable due to native IP transport of user and control
plane data in MBMS. Certain DVB system functions indicated in the SI can be
mapped to similar MBMS service layer capabilities, such as support for time
synchronization between the network and the device, as well as the means for
the network to update or invalidate service signaling information. For these
functions, no specific gaps are present.
On the other hand, there are numerous DVB SI functionality that have no
clearly similar or equivalent counterparts in the MBMS service layer/USD.
**Transport signaling related**. There are DVB-defined identifiers, such as
Conditional Access (CA) system identification for services or programs that
are content protected by CA technology (see
http://www.dvbservices.com/identifiers/index.php). Similarly, there may be use
of identifiers associated with the DVB \"ecosystem\", such as authority and
content identifiers defined by the (now inactive) TV-Anytime Forum
(http://www.tv-anytime.org/). In addition, DVB SI allocates 16-bit service and
event (i.e. \"program\") IDs to be assigned by DVB broadcasters, which will
need to be supported by the MBMS USD. There are also functional concepts
unique DVB which have no equivalent in the MBMS USD. For example, due to the
possibility that a given broadcaster may offers DTT services in multiple,
neighbouring countries, _country_availability_ indication may be signaled in
various SI tables (e.g. BAT, SDT, and EIT). Another broadcast TV specific
function is that of _FTA_content_management_ which enables certain control by
the broadcaster on the usage and/or remote distribution of content items
delivered in free-to-air (FTA) services -- for example, a) without
restriction, b) only within a managed domain, c) only after a certain time has
elapsed since the original program airing, etc.
**Application signaling related**. The DVB SI, mainly via the EIT, but also
including functionality of the BAT and SDT, contain EPG metadata that enables
an EPG application built into the DVB receiver to produce a program guide for
the end user. Such application service and related signaling functionality is
outside the scope of the MBMS USD, and the current MBMS client, as recipient
of the USD metadata, does not perform application service specific
functionality, such as producing an EPG with associated UI and application
logic to enable program guide display to and interaction with the user. In
fact, application signaling metadata such as the Media Presentation
Description metadata fragment simply serves as a container for the MPD created
by the DASH service provider, to be passed transparently by the MBMS client to
the DASH player, the latter entity acting as an application client. Whether
and how such EPG metadata should be handled as part of the service layer
conversion from DVB SI to MBMS USD is an area for further study and
discussion.
### 6.2.5 Potential Solutions
#### 6.2.5.1 General
It is understood that the MBMS USD currently defines only transport-level
service signaling, to enable the MBMS receiver to identify the available MBMS
User Services, which are defined as transport services, and the means to
acquire the constituent content components of a given service. Auxiliary
mechanism associated with the transport signaling include the means to ensure
reliability of service reception, such as AL-FEC and/or file repair
configuration information, and the reporting of reception statistics for QoE
measurement, or the determination of service popularity, by the network. The
DVB SI, as defined in ETSI EN 300 468 [3], contains not only such transport
signaling, but also application-level, EPG metadata, to enable the receiver
which is assumed to contain an EPG application client, to process that
metadata in the creation of a service/program guide for display to the user.
Although not defined in the DVB SI [3], the EPG application may include end-
user navigation and selection capabilities via additional UI function and
associated application logic. A key question to be addressed in the analysis
of possible solution frameworks is whether and/or how the MBMS USD should be
extended to support EPG-like functionality.
#### 6.2.5.2 Option 1: Extend USD with DTT Transport Signaling and EPG
In Option 1, the MBMS USD will be enhanced to provide both the necessary
broadcast TV specific transport signaling (identifiers of CA system, service
package, service and program, country of service availability, identification
of constituent media components, content management rules, etc.) and EPG
metadata as defined by the DTT system. To do so, it is anticipated that the
following changes to the MBMS USD data structure will be necessary:
1) Extension of existing metadata fragments, especially the USBD fragment
which includes both service bundle (or package) and service level semantics,
by introducing new elements or attributes to carry additional service and
service package related information.
2) Definition of new metadata fragments to carry DVB SI information not
supported by, or inappropriate to functionally extend, existing MBMS USD
metadata fragments. These pertain to metadata intended either for processing
by the MBMS receiver, or display to the end user. Examples include program-
level descriptions, identification of media components contained in a service
or individual program, parental rating metadata, and signaling of applications
associated with a service or program (e.g. targeted ads, interactive quiz,
voting of favourite performer).
#### 6.2.5.3 Option 2: EPG Metadata Carried in Application Service Description
In Option 2, the Application Service Description, as a \"container\" USD
metadata fragment for entry point information of an application service, will
carry all EPG metadata associated with the DTT service. In other words, the
application service client or \"consumer\" of this Application Service
Description is the EPG application. TS 26.346 indicates that the application
service type is defined by the Internet Media (i.e. MIME) type given by the
attribute _mimeType_ of _r12:appService_ , and the associated Application
Service Description could be a Media Presentation Description fragment
corresponding to a unified MPD, or an HTML page representing the home page of
an HTML application service. In this method, transport signaling and
application service specific metadata are separated for containment in
different USD metadata fragments. DTT service specific transport signaling
will be carried in existing USD fragments and/or in newly-defined fragments
that strictly contain transport signaling, while EPG metadata will be carried
in the associated Application Service Description.
It is for further discussion whether the data structure of the Application
Service Description for carrying EPG metadata should be standardized by 3GPP,
or left undefined and implementation-specific. While requiring additional work
effort, the former approach should reduce device complexity and enhance
interoperability. If the EPG-based Application Service Description data
structure is proprietary, UEs may have to support multiple EPG clients in
order to interwork with different translations of DVB EPG metadata formats as
supplied by various eMBMS operators, to be carried inside the Application
Service Description fragment.
#### 6.2.5.4 Option 3: EPG Data Delivery as Standalone MBMS User Service
In Option 3, Broadcast TV EPG information is delivered as the contents of an
individual MBMS User Service. All DTT service specific transport signaling
will be carried in existing USD fragments and/or in newly-defined fragments
that strictly contain transport signaling, as in Option 2. There are two
possible ways of bootstrapping the discovery and selection of the main TV
service using the EPG service. In the first, the Service ID (attribute
_serviceId_ of the _userServiceDescription_ element) is only known by the EPG
application, which will request that MBMS User Service from the MBMS client
upon registration, via the registration API as defined in TRAPI [4].
Alternatively, the EPG service has a pre-configured Service ID or Service
Class value in the MBMS client, which will automatically download and provide
the contents of this service to the EPG application upon registration of that
application with the MBMS client.
#### 6.2.5.5 Pros and Cons of the Alternative Methods
Option 1 may be considered as offering the benefit of ensuring full 3GPP
control of MBMS USD definition to support DTT services delivery over the MBMS
system as MBMS User Services. However, it is not a clean approach in mixing
transport signaling and application service metadata in the same metadata
fragment. In particular, the MBMS client has been designed to only support
transport signaling to enable reliable service/content reception. Should EPG
semantics be added to existing USD metadata fragments and/or in newly-defined
fragments, it would essentially require the MBMS client to act additionally as
an EPG application, in constructing a program guide for end-user display and
possibly user manipulation via a graphical and interactive user interface,
along with application logic to support the user interface. Furthermore, the
EPG application may need to interact with a backend server of the TV
broadcaster for service subscription and charging/payment functions.
Supporting such EPG application could significantly increase the complexity of
the MBMS client, and potentially delay the practical introduction of DTT
service delivery over eMBMS via reuse of the MBMS service layer.
Option 2 may be attractive in offering cleaner separation of transport and
application service related signaling functionality in the service layer. It
leverages the intended role of the existing Application Service Description
for carrying EPG-related information as an application service entry point
document, which in turn would be forwarded by the MBMS client to a local EPG
application client for processing. In the meantime, the required extension to
the remaining MBMS USD would be limited to strictly new parameters added to
existing metadata fragments, or introduction of new fragments, that pertain
strictly to DTT service specific transport signaling. This method will likely
impose considerably less burden on the MBMS client than Option 1, since it
continues to process only transport signaling associated with DTT service
reception on UEs. As such, it might also accelerate the timeframe that mobile
operators can practically offer full service layer reused based eMBMS delivery
of DTT services to capable receiving devices. The tradeoffs between whether or
not to standardize the data structure of such EPG-based Application Service
Description were discussed in clause 6.2.5.3.
Option 3 would represent the simplest approach to supporting the delivery of
DTT service EPG metadata. Similar to Option 2, it maintains clean separation
of transport signaling from application service specific signaling in the MBMS
service layer for DTT service delivery support. It would also avoid the debate
on whether the EPG-specific Application Service Description should be defined
by 3GPP. One downside of this approach is that it is not fully aligned with
USD design/operating principle that entry point info for any MBMS-aware
application should be contained in Application Service Description, which is
the mechanism adopted in Option 2. Also, it may potentially impose
implementation complexity for the BM-SC to have to parse the service and
signaling information provided by the DTT broadcaster across the XMB
interface, to create and provision an individual MBMS User Service containing
EPG metadata, as compared to sending the EPG information in the MBMS USD.
(_This last point needs verification by infrastructure vendors._)
A summary of the three alternatives is shown in Table 4.
Table 4: Comparison of Options 1, 2 and 3 for Translating DVB SI to MBMS
Service Layer Signaling
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Method | Description | Pros | Cons | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Mixed | \"Horizontal\" | Full 3GPP | - Not a clean | | transport and | extension of | control of | approach by | | EPG metadata | MBMS USD | MBMS USD | mixing | | in USD | fragments | definition to | transport | | fragments | (existing and | supporting | signaling with | | | newly-added) | DTT-over-eMBMS | application | | | to carry both | as MBMS User | service | | | transport and | Service | metadata | | | application | | | | | service | | - Imposes | | | signaling | | significant | | | | | complexity on | | | | | MBMS client to | | | | | support EPG | | | | | application, | | | | | including UI | | | | | and | | | | | application | | | | | logic, and | | | | | interaction | | | | | with | | | | | broadcasters\' | | | | | provisioning | | | | | and billing | | | | | systems | | | | | | | | | | - May delay | | | | | launch of | | | | | DTT-over-eMBMS | | | | | via MBMS | | | | | service layer | | | | | reuse | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EPG carriage | Separation of | - Cleaner | None in | | in Application | transport and | separation | particular | | Service | application | between | | | Description | service | transport and | Open question | | | signaling in | application | on whether the | | | MBMS service | service | data format of | | | -- all EPG | signaling in | such EPG-based | | | metadata | MBMS service | Application | | | carried in | layer | Service | | | Application | | Description | | | Service | - Leverages | fragment | | | Description | intended role | should be | | | | of the | standardized | | | | Application | | | | | Service | | | | | Description | | | | | for carrying | | | | | EPG info as | | | | | application | | | | | service entry | | | | | point document | | | | | | | | | | - Imposes | | | | | considerably | | | | | less burden on | | | | | MBMS client | | | | | than Option 1, | | | | | by only having | | | | | to process | | | | | transport | | | | | signaling | | | | | associated | | | | | with DTT | | | | | service | | | | | reception | | | | | | | | | | - May | | | | | accelerate | | | | | launch of | | | | | DTT-over-eMBMS | | | | | via MBMS | | | | | service layer | | | | | reuse | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EPG carriage | Separation of | - Simplest | - Diverges | | as standalone | transport and | approach to | from USD | | MBMS User | application | supporting | de | | Service | service | delivery of | sign/operating | | | signaling in | DTT service | principle that | | | MBMS service | EPG metadata | entry point | | | -- EPG | | info for any | | | metadata | | MBMS-aware | | | carried as | | application | | | standalone | | should be | | | MBMS User | | contained in | | | Service | | Application | | | | | Service | | | | | Description | | | | | | | | | | - (_requires | | | | | verification_) | | | | | May be more | | | | | operationally | | | | | complex than | | | | | Options 1 and | | | | | 2 for the | | | | | mobile | | | | | operator | | | | | infrastructure | | | | | as it has to | | | | | parse service | | | | | signaling, | | | | | i.e. DVB SI, | | | | | provided by | | | | | DTT | | | | | broadcaster | | | | | over XMB | | | | | interface to | | | | | extract EPG | | | | | metadata, and | | | | | provision a | | | | | unique MBMS | | | | | User Service | | | | | pertaining to | | | | | EPG info, | | | | | including | | | | | pre-defining | | | | | unique | | | | | serviceId | | | | | and/or service | | | | | class values | | | | | for that | | | | | service | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 6.3 IP-Based Broadcast
### 6.3.1 Description
A broadcaster that has TV services over IP-based broadcast (such as ATSC 3.0
or ARIB) is interested in extending its reach to mobile devices and in
improving the in-door reception for the fixed receivers. The broadcaster
reaches an agreement with a mobile operator to distribute some of the TV
channels over mobile broadcast using eMBMS. However, the broadcaster wants to
maintain control over the content components and workflow and reuse existing
players for the playback of the content. It also needs to maintain the service
aspects that are related to regulatory commitments of the broadcaster.
### 6.3.2 Working Assumptions
Based on the previous use case and requirements, the following working
assumptions are determined:
\- The BM-SC will forward the IP-based broadcast stream as is as user plane
multicast data over the XMB interface.
\- The BM-SC creates a minimal service announcement that serves the purpose of
bootstrapping.
\- The MBMS API offers access to the raw IP-based broadcast stream.
\- The BM-SC may offer additional functionality to support delivery over MBMS.
The technical and commercial viability of these features will be studied on
case by case basis.
### 6.3.3 Recommended Requirements
\- An eMBMS transport layer should be able to transport TV streams formatted
not compliant to 3GPP standards.
\- It is possible to deliver IP-based terrestrial broadcast streams without
modifications to the contents of the stream.
### 6.3.4 Available Enablers in 3GPP
The group communication delivery method as defined in 8A of TS 26.346 may
enable functionalities in this context.
### 6.3.5 Gap Analysis
The group communication is primarily defined for the group communication
application service as defined in 3GPP TS 23.468 [18]. In addition, the group
communication relies session description of GC1.
In addition, the service may be constant bitrate or variable bitrate. Both
modes are expected to be supported.
## 6.4 FTA Linear TV to Mobiles
### 6.4.1 Description
A linear TV service can be made accessible to mobiles through a 3GPP cellular
infrastructure in order to broadly provide free-to-air TV services to mobile
phones and other 3GPP-connected devices.
A linear service is the traditional way of offering TV services where the
content is organised in a sequence that may consist of e.g. news, shows,
drama, movies, or documentaries. That sequence is distributed as a stream of
programmes that reach the viewer according to a pre-defined schedule. The
viewer can tune in to a programme but cannot alter the schedule. Linear TV is
the most common way of delivering live content (e.g. sport events, concerts,
news). The Linear TV Service is considered Free-to-Air (FTA), i.e. no
subscription is required with a TV service provider and that the service is
also characterised by no content encryption and is made available at no
additional cost to the end user as defined in TS 22.101.
The TV service may be made available regionally or nationally.
The TV service may include SD, HD and UHD services.
The TV service may include audio in different languages.
The TV service may include subtitles.
Access services may have to be supported.
It is desirable that different type of ad insertion models can be supported.
### 6.4.2 Working Assumptions
There is no reason why the image formats as specified in TS 26.116 cannot be
used.
The required audio formats include stereo. Loudness control (For details see:
EBU Recommendation R 128:2014: \"Loudness normalization and permitted maximum
level of audio signals\") is expected to be supported. Multiple audio tracks
may be present, for example for different languages. There may be services
that require support for multiple languages where the language is pre-mixed
with music and effects.
A sufficient set of audio and video codecs are required to allow for encoding
and distribution of legacy and new formats in an efficient manner. If legacy
content is expected to be distributed (e.g. MPEG-2 video or audio
technologies), it may be transcoded prior to distribution.
Subtitling formats may include both textual and graphical types.
Access services may include subtitling, signing, audio descriptions and audio
subtitling.
Ad insertion solutions may include one of the following options: splicing in a
live stream, as a targeted stream requested by the user device, or retrieved
from local storage on the device.
### 6.4.3 Recommended Requirements
The following enablers need to be provided:
\- Video Formats and Codecs for SD, HD and UHD formats
\- Stereo Audio Formats and Codecs
\- Loudness control
\- Multiple language support
\- Subtitling formats for text and graphics
\- Signalling for access services
\- Splicing of content in network and on the device
### 6.4.4 Available Enablers in 3GPP, Gap Analysis and Optimization Potentials
If the transport-only mode is used, then codecs and service layer aspects are
outside of the control of 3GPP.
If the MBMS service layer mode (also referred to in TR 23.746 [16] as \"MBMS
Service Type 2\" or \"Full MBMS service mode\") is used, then the following
enablers exist and gaps and optimization potentials are identified:
\- Video Formats and Codecs for SD, HD and UHD formats
\- Available Enablers:
\- According to TS 26.346 [14], clause 10.5.5: \"If the 3GPP MBMS client
supports Television (TV) over 3GPP Services, it shall comply with the 720p
H.264 (AVC) Operation Point Receiver requirements and should comply with the
Full HD H.264 (AVC), 720p H.265 (HEVC), FullHD H.265 (HEVC) and UHD H.265
(HEVC) Operation Points Receiver requirements as specified in TS 26.116.\"
\- 3GPP supports the relevant video codecs and formats
\- Optimization: UHD has other dimensions than 4K, including High Dynamic
Range (HDR) and High Frame Rate (HFR).
\- Stereo Audio Formats and Codecs
\- Available Enablers:
\- According to TS 26.346 [14], clause 10.5.5: \"If audio is supported, then
the following two audio decoders should be supported:
\- Enhanced aacPlus, as specified in 3GPP TS 26.401, 3GPP TS 26.410 and 3GPP
TS 26.411.
\- Extended AMR-WB, as specified in 3GPP TS 26.290, 3GPP TS 26.304 and 3GPP TS
26.273.\"
> \- Both codecs support stereo formats.
\- Loudness control
\- Gap: Loudness control is not supported in 3GPP
\- Multiple language support
\- Available enablers:
\- 3GP-DASH supports late binding, so language can be distributed
independently of the video.
\- 3GP-DASH supports signalling multiple languages by using the \@lang
attribute with Adaptation Sets. The mixing of the music and effects and the
language track is done at the sender.
\- Optimizations:
\- Distribution of objects (e.g. music&effects, different languages)
separately in order to combine at the receiver.
\- Subtitling formats for text and graphics
\- Available Enablers:
For details see: EBU Recommendation R 128:2014: \"Loudness normalization and
permitted maximum level of audio signals\".- Gap:
\- No streaming support for TS 26.245, i.e. it is not supported for
fragmentation.
\- Alternative richer formats such as IMSC1 text or IMSC1 with images [27].
\- Signaling for access services
\- Available Enablers:
\- 3GP-DASH supports signaling using the Accessibility descriptor and using
the MPEG DASH Role scheme.
\- Optimization:
\- Consistent signaling of the Accessibility functions.
\- Consistent receiver behaviour to select the Adaptation Sets related to
accessibility.
Splicing of content in network and on the device
\- 3GP-DASH supports multi-Period content.
\- Optimizations:
\- Consistent use of multi-Period content for splicing in network
\- Consistent use of multi-Period content for splicing in device
## 6.5 FTA Linear TV to Stationary TVs
### 6.5.1 Description
Linear FTA broadcast TV to stationary TV sets is generally enabled via
traditional broadcast networks. However, there is no reason to not explore the
possibility of replicating this use case in a 3GPP environment.
A linear TV service is accessible to stationary TV sets through a 3GPP
cellular infrastructure in order to provide FTA TV Services to stationary TV
sets.
Conventional TVs do not have uplink capability but connected TVs do (either
integrated in a TV set or in a set-top box). Connected TV sets are capable of
connecting to the Internet, usually via a home gateway. This means that uplink
capability may be present to enhance the service, but cannot be assumed to
exist for all types of devices.
The TV service may be made available regionally or nationally.
For TV centric services, the audio and video formats defined in TS 101 154
[17] (DVB codec specification) are expected to be used.
Subtitling formats may be required.
Access services may be required.
It is desirable that different type of ad insertion models can be supported.
Note that not all ad insertion models may be supported by all end devices, for
example depending on whether the device has uplink capabilities.
### 6.5.2 Working Assumptions
For video this includes SD, HD and UHD formats according to TS 101 154 [17].
The required audio formats include stereo and multi-channel audio, but also
next generation object- and scene-based audio systems may be enabled as well.
Loudness control is expected to be supported. Multiple audio tracks may be
present, for example for different languages. There may be services that
require support for multiple languages where the language is pre-mixed with
the music and effects.
A sufficient set of audio and video codecs are required to allow for encoding
and distribution of legacy and new formats in an efficient manner. There is a
benefit of aligning with ETSI TS 101 154 [17]. If legacy content is expected
to be distributed (e.g. MPEG-2 video or audio technologies), this may be
transcoded prior to distribution.
Subtitling formats may be required, including both textual and graphical ones.
Access services may have to be supported that include subtitling, signing,
audio descriptions and audio subtitling.
Ad insertion includes splicing in a live stream, as well as a targeted stream
requested by the user device, or from a local storage on the device.
### 6.5.3 Recommended Requirements
The following enablers need to be provided:
\- Video Formats and Codecs following TS 101 154 [17].
\- Audio Formats and Codecs following TS 101 154 [17].
\- Loudness control.
\- Multiple language support.
\- Subtitling formats for text and graphics.
\- Signalling for access services.
\- Splicing of content in network and on the device with the ability to
provide fallback for UE that do not support an uplink.
### 6.5.4 Available Enablers in 3GPP, Gap Analysis and Optimization Potentials
If the transport-only mode is used, then codecs and service layer aspects are
outside of the control of 3GPP.
If the MBMS service layer mode is used, then the following enablers exist and
gaps and optimization potentials are identified:
\- Video Formats and Codecs following TS 101 154 [17]
\- Available Enablers:
\- According to TS 26.346 [14], clause 10.5.5: \"If the 3GPP MBMS client
supports Television (TV) over 3GPP Services, it shall comply with the 720p
H.264 (AVC) Operation Point Receiver requirements and should comply with the
Full HD H.264 (AVC), 720p H.265 (HEVC), FullHD H.265 (HEVC) and UHD H.265
(HEVC) Operation Points Receiver requirements as specified in TS 26.116.\"
\- There is significant overlap between 3GPP and DVB codecs.
\- OPTIMIZATION: UHD has other dimensions than 4K, including High Dynamic
Range (HDR) and High Frame Rate (HFR).
\- Audio Formats and Codecs following TS 101 154 [17]
\- Available Enablers:
\- According to TS 26.346 [14], clause 10.5.5: Enhanced aacPlus, as specified
in 3GPP TS 26.401, 3GPP TS 26.410 and 3GPP TS 26.411.
\- For stereo, enhanced aacPlus and HE-AACv2 are basically identical.
\- Gaps:
\- The differences between enhanced aacPlus and HE-AACv2 need to be verified
and understood.
\- No support for any other codecs in TS 101 154 in 3GPP.
\- Loudness control
\- Gap: Loudness control is not supported in 3GPP
\- Multiple language support
\- Available Enablers:
\- 3GP-DASH supports late binding, so language can be distributed
independently of the video.
\- 3GP-DASH supports signalling multiple languages by using the \@lang
attribute with Adaptation Sets. The mixing of the music and effects and the
language track is done at the sender.
\- Optimizations:
\- Distribution of objects (e.g., music&effects, different languages)
separately in order to combine at the receiver.
\- Subtitling formats for text and graphics
\- According to TS 26.346 [14], clause 10.10: \"If timed text is supported,
MBMS clients shall support 3GPP TS 26.245. Timed text may be transported over
RTP or downloaded contained in 3GP files using Basic profile.\"
\- Gaps:
\- No streaming support for TS 26.245, i.e. it is not supported for
fragmentation.
\- Alternative richer formats such as IMSC1 text or IMSC1 with graphics [27].
\- Signaling for access services
\- 3GP-DASH supports signaling using the Accessibility descriptor and using
the MPEG DASH Role scheme.
\- Optimization:
\- Consistent signaling of the Accessibility functions.
\- Consistent receiver behaviour in selection of the Adaptation Sets related
to accessibility.
Splicing of content in network and on the device with the ability to provide
fallback for UE that do not support an uplink
\- 3GP-DASH supports multi-Period content and resolve to zero xlink.
\- Optimizations:
\- Consistent use of multi-Period content for splicing.
\- Consistent use of device-based ad insertion.
## 6.6 FTA Linear TV to Stationary TV and Mobiles
### 6.6.1 Description
A broadcaster may provide an FTA Linear TV service to Mobiles and Stationary
TVs according to the scenarios in use in clause 6.4 and 6.5 in a cost- and
spectrum-efficient manner.
### 6.6.2 Working Assumptions
Simulcasting of services is considered not being cost and spectrum efficient.
The service may be targeted for mobile coverage or for stationary coverage.
### 6.6.3 Recommended Requirements
It is possible to distribute the same signal over the 3GPP bearer service for
both type of receptions.
It is possible to distribute encapsulation, media formats and codecs supported
by both type of end devices. stationary TVs and mobiles.
### 6.6.4 Realization Options
#### 6.6.4.1 Objective
In order to fulfil this use case, the service layer architecture will support
the distribution of content to both, stationary TV as well as mobile devices.
This is shown in Figure 8. Different candidate architecture may be considered
to fulfil the use case.
Figure 8
Two realization options are discussed in clauses 6.6.4.2 and 6.6.4.3.
#### 6.6.4.2 DVB Service Layer Reuse
Figure 9 provides an architecture, for which the MPEG-2 TS based service layer
is reused. In this case the MPEG-2 TS is carried over the eMBMS network. In
this case, stationary TV set can reuse the existing service layer and only the
physical layer is replaced. However, such an architecture provides challenges
in terms of support on mobile devices as 3GPP specifications do not support
the DVB service layer as defined.
Figure 9
It is assumed that the MPEG-2 TS is carried over an MBMS bearer.
Within the above concept, yet two additional options are worthwhile to be
considered:
1) The service access information, including the MBMS radio parameters for
each service, are carried inband of the MPEG-2 TS.
2) There is a dedicated service announcement channel that distributes the
network information for each service to enable service bootstrapping.
Note that the MPEG-2 TS may be a single program stream or a multi program
stream, i.e. multiple programs are multiplexed.
There are three options on this architecture:
1) 3GPP excludes this architecture entirely.
2) 3GPP fully defines an MPEG-2 TS based service layer with the objective of
alignment with the DVB service layer.
3) 3GPP defines the minimum bootstrapping parameters for service discovery and
access, but leaves the inclusion of those to the organization that owns the
service layer.
It is recommended to only address option 3, i.e. enable the feature, but leave
definition to outside world.
#### 6.6.4.3 MBMS Service Layer
Figure 10 provides an architecture that is centric to the reuse of the MBMS
Service Layer for TV distribution. In this case the broadcaster-centric
services, typically available in MPEG-2 TS (see some discussion clause 5.2),
need to be converted to MBMS Service Layer. This may include issues such as:
\- converting DVB service layer information to the MBMS USD where possible,
and extending the MBMS USD as necessary
\- provide suitable encapsulation
\- transcoding of media to 3GPP codecs
\- new multiplexing requirements
Figure 10
The MBMS User Services should support all required features that permit to
replicate an existing service.
It may be the case that broadcasters already produce content for mobiles or
for DASH Linear TV services. It may well be that no transcoding is necessary,
only a mapping to the MBS service.
### 6.6.5 Gap Analysis
#### 6.6.5.1 DVB Service Layer Reuse
Following the recommendation, in order to enable this architecture, at least
the following aspects need to be considered:
\- Necessary information for accessing an MBMS bearer.
\- Interface from content provider to BMSC to carry such information.
\- Interface from BMSC to content provider to provide the information on an
MBMS bearer. The actual encoding is done by the one that generates the service
layer.
\- Interfaces in the device for TRAPI to provide these generic
functionalities.
\- Possibly others.
For more details, refer to generic gap analysis in clause 7.1.
#### 6.6.5.2 MBMS Service Layer Reuse
In order to enable this architecture, at least the following aspects need to
be considered:
\- Understanding all existing functionalities of existing service layers
including codecs, etc.
\- Provide a mapping of these functions to MBMS user service functions.
\- If gaps are identified, those gaps are expected to be fulfilled as part of
any normative work.
\- Interfaces in the device for TRAPI to provide TV service centric APIs.
\- Necessary exchange between content provided and BMSC, addressed by MI-TV.
A key issue is that stationary TV sets will not support the 3GPP MBMS Service
Layer yet. Hence, all necessary functions and tools need to be provided to
support integration of the service layer to stationary TV sets. It is
considered that DASH can be the converging format.
For more details, refer to generic gap analysis in clause 7.2.
## 6.7 Extensibility
### 6.7.1 Description
Assume that in the year 2020, a broadcaster runs linear TV Broadcast Services
using the 3GPP Service layer. The broadcaster wants to introduce a Virtual
reality broadcast service running over the same radio network. The service can
be targeted to new devices that implement the new services, whereas legacy
devices ignore the service and provide a service with similar content, but
with lower quality or inferior user experience.
### 6.7.2 Working Assumptions
\- The same service announcement is used to describe the services.
\- The broadcaster may provide services for different device types, possibly
implementing different Releases of the 3GPP TV Service Layer.
\- The broadcaster may simulcast services for different device types. However,
the broadcaster typically wants to reduce the amount of simulcast options for
different device types.
\- The broadcaster wants to avoid service reception should the device
capabilities be insufficient to consume the service.
\- The broadcaster wants to provide services which are only supported by a
subset of all devices.
### 6.7.3 Recommended Requirements
\- The service signalling provides sufficient information such that the device
can acquire and consume the service, or ignore it.
\- The service layer defines service profiles that match receiver profiles,
i.e. a service profile can be consumed by a receiver supporting a specific set
of profiles.
\- The amount of receiver profiles is small in order to avoid extensive
simulcasting.
\- Receiver profiles that fully support multiple service profiles, are
beneficial.
### 6.7.4 Available Enablers in 3GPP, Gap Analysis and Potential for
Optimization
Available Enablers:
\- MBMS User Service Description includes features and feature requirements as
documented in TS 26.346 [14], clause 11.9. This can be used and extended to
meet required receiver profiles.
\- The feature requirements include features such as service announcement
profiles, specific codecs, specific delivery methods, etc.
\- DASH supports the Media Presentation Profile profile signalling that can be
exposed and included in the media type. The Internet media type can be
signalled on User Service Description level. The Media Presentation Profile
may include signalling on codecs and DASH features.
Optimization Potential:
\- Consistent packaging of a baseline TV service profile and a proper
signalling on DASH and MBMS User Service Level
\- Signalling for extensions for advanced receivers and optional features on
DASH and MBMS User Service Level
## 6.8 TV Service Delivery over Full MBMS Service Mode
### 6.8.1 Description
A mobile network operator wants to offer TV services from one or more TV
content providers using Full MBMS Service Mode (Service Type 2). A TV content
provider may provide the data for one or more TV channels. It is assumed that
the TV Content Provider creates a continuous, linear content stream, which is
composed out of a sequence of individual programs, advertisements and other
components. The TV Content Provider may distribute the same continuous stream
as TV service over traditional TV distribution paths or may adjust the
services (in terms of programs and content) to other paths. The mobile
operator wants to offer the service in the full network coverage, either using
MBMS bearers or using unicast bearers. Note, the full network coverage can be
larger than the MBMS services area, but limited by national borders or other
constraints. Based on agreement with the TV content provider, either broadcast
areas are defined statically or broadcast areas are created dynamically e.g.
based on current usage.
The mobile network operator wants to offer similar functions like a
traditional DTT (Digital Terrestrial TV) platform through the Full MBMS
Service Mode. In particular:
\- Information to identify individual TV services.
\- Description of available programs for instance by providing an Electronic
Program Guide (EPG).
\- Multiple Media components such as audio and video.
\- The TV receiver in this context is a full 3GPP device.
\- Upon request from the TV content provider, the mobile operator offers
(anonymized) reception statistics and (anonymized) quality feedback to the TV
content provider.
### 6.8.2 Working Assumptions
The following set of working assumptions is applicable to this use case:
\- TV services utilize MBMS User Services features as defined in TS 26.346, in
particular MBMS bearer and unicast delivery. This corresponds to the Full MBMS
Service Mode, which is Service Type 2 in TR 23.746.
\- 3GPP Devices in context of this use-case are capable of MBMS reception and
unicast reception. The 3GPP UE functions may be integrated into Smartphone or
other devices like TV Sets or Set-top Boxes.
\- Devices support at least Service Continuity, i.e. switch between Unicast
and MBMS bearer usage. Devices may also support MBMS operations on Demand
(MooD), i.e. allow the network to measure the current interest in the service.
\- Needed service and program information are offered to the MBMS aware
application.
\- The mobile operator provides in collaboration with the TV content providers
the application.
\- The TV content provider provides TV related media in 3GPP encoding format.
Optionally, the mobile network operator offers a transcoding service, which
converts the streams to a 3GPP encoding format.
\- The Application is provided by or in collaboration with the content
provider. The Application can be installed by the user or may be pre-installed
on the device.
### 6.8.3 Recommended Requirements
\- The 3GPP System can offer all components of the TV service via unicast and
MBMS bearers.
\- The MBMS aware application handles TV service and program related
information.
## 6.9 File Delivery Services over MBMS
### 6.9.1 Use Cases and Descriptions
Table 5 lists a set of example use cases for file-based services from 3rd-
party content providers for delivery over MBMS and a brief description for
each. The rationale and basic operation for these use cases should be mostly
self-evident.
Table 5: Example Use Cases for Content Provider\'s File-based Services over
MBMS
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Use Case** | **Description** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | \"Top-10\" videos | Daily delivery over MBMS of the | | | latest top-10 rated social media | | | videos in multiple categories. | | | The composition of these10 video | | | clips in a given category may | | | change during the course of the | | | day due to changes in popularity | | | of the collection of videos in | | | that category. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Stock ticker service | Continuous delivery of dynamic | | | and near real-time market prices | | | of a pre-selected set of company | | | stocks, during the trading day | | | of the NASDAQ stock exchange. | | | | | | The stock ticker service could | | | be a standalone service to be | | | subscribed and accessed for | | | display by the UE, or is an | | | application feature affiliated | | | to another, main service (for | | | example, a linear TV service). | | | | | | This service is nominally | | | expected to be delivered as a | | | Datacasting service, via either | | | the scheduled-and-periodic or | | | back-to-back delivery mode as | | | defined in TS 26.346. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Movie download for time-shifted | Scalable delivery of movies | | viewing | over-night for viewing during | | | the next day. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Firmware updates | UE manufacturers\' firmware | | | updates via MBMS delivery. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Electronic newspaper delivery | Daily delivery of a collection | | | of popular newspapers, the | | | contents of which may change | | | during the day. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Digital signage | Display of possibly | | | time-varying, multimedia content | | | pertaining to a variety of | | | applications (advertisements, | | | emergency alerts, highway | | | conditions, etc.) on digital | | | billboards. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 6.9.2 High-level Requirements on Content Ingestion and Transmission over
MBMS
#### 6.9.2.1 Introduction
With regards to the use cases in Table 5, this section summarizes at a high
level functional requirements regarding content ingestion at the BM-SC from
the BM-SC perspective. Additionally, it contains requirements on User Service
announcement/discovery and MBMS transmission of file-based services delivery,
inferred or derived from the Content Provider\'s requirements. These latter
requirements will be managed by the BM-SC based on the relevant information it
obtains from the Content Provider (CP), for example, via xMB APIs. An
alternative to conveying the information relating to service announcement and
MBMS delivery requirements via the xMB Control Plane or User Plane API, such
information could be built into the service level agreement between the MNO
and the CP.
#### 6.9.2.2 Top-10 YouTube Video Delivery
Ingestion-related requirements (from the BM-SC\'s perspective):
\- The BM-SC will be informed whether the content ingestion mode is push or
pull based;
\- The resource location (file URL) for each video file is expected to be made
available to the BM-SC in support of pull-based ingestion mode;
\- In the event of pull-based ingestion of the video file from the CP server,
the BM-SC is expected to be informed of the earliest wall-clock time that it
can initiate a request for a given file from the Content Provider server;
\- In the event of pull-based ingestion of the video file from the CP server,
the BM-SC is expected to be informed of the latest wall-clock time that it can
initiate a request for a given file from the Content Provider server;
\- In the event of push-based ingestion, an HTTP(s) URL based resource
location, identifying the BM-SC and associated directory structure for content
ingestion, is expected to be provided to the CP server;
\- In the event of push-based ingestion, the BM-SC is expected to be ready to
accept the content whenever the CP server decides to send a video file;
\- The BM-SC is expected to be informed of the actual sizes, and if not
possible, at least the minimum and maximum size of the video files to be
provided by the CP, via either pull- or push-based ingestion mode.
Inferred MBMS service announcement and delivery related requirements (from the
Content Provider\'s service requirements):
\- The BM-SC ought to be informed by the CP on whether the video files can be
fetched by the UE over unicast from the CP server, and if so, the BM-SC ought
to be provided their resource locations as HTTP(s) URLs (this information will
be in turn provided to the UE via service announcement);
\- The BM-SC ought to be informed by the CP about basic characteristics of the
service such as service name and service language;
\- The BM-SC ought to be informed by the CP of the earliest time that a given
video file is expected to be available to the MBMS-aware application for
rendering, if the CP imposes such a requirement;
\- The BM-SC ought to be informed by the CP of the latest time that a given
file is expected to be available to the MBMS-aware application for rendering,
if the CP imposes such a requirement;
\- The BM-SC ought to be informed by the CP as to whether dynamic changes may
occur during the day in the composition of the \"Top-10\" video files (for a
given category), and if so, for pull-based content ingestion, it ought to be
notified by the CP of such changes, to enable subsequently informing the UE of
such changes and scheduling MBMS delivery of the modified/new content.
#### 6.9.3.3 Stock Ticker Service
Ingestion-related requirements:
\- Same as those for the top-10 videos use case but with the follow exceptions
(in addition to replacing the term \"video file\" by \"stock quote file\"):
\- Pull-based ingestion, and related requirements, are likely inappropriate
for this type of very frequently updated and time-sensitive file content;
\- It is unlikely that the BM-SC will need to know minimum and maximum size of
the incoming files from the CP, as these are likely to be relatively small,
and of similar size (e.g. a few hundred bytes).
Inferred MBMS service announcement and delivery-related requirements:
\- The BM-SC is expected to be informed by the CP on whether the stock quote
files can be fetched by the UE over unicast from the CP server, and if so, the
BM-SC is expected to be provided their resource locations as HTTP(s) URLs
(this information will be in turn provided to the UE via service
announcement);
\- The BM-SC is expected to be informed by the CP about basic characteristics
of the service such as service name and service language;
\- Assuming the stock ticker service is delivered as a Datacasting service,
the BM-SC is expected to be informed by the CP on the expected periodic update
interval of the stock prices in the reported collection (in order to set the
values of the child element interval and attribute \@mode of the
r12:recurrenceAndMonitoring element in the session schedule, in defining the
use of the scheduled-and-periodic or back-to-back delivery mode).
#### 6.9.3.4 Movie Download for Time-Shifted Viewing
Ingestion-related requirements:
\- Same as those for the top-10 videos use case (except for replacing the term
\"video file\" by \"movie file\").
Inferred MBMS service announcement and delivery related requirements:
\- Same as those for the top-10 videos use case (except for replacing the term
\"video file\" by \"movie file\").
#### 6.9.3.5 Firmware Updates
Ingestion-related requirements:
\- Same as those for the top-10 videos use case (except for replacing the term
\"video file\" by \"firmware file\").
Inferred MBMS service announcement and delivery related requirements:
\- Same as those for the top-10 videos use case (except for replacing the term
\"video file\" by \"firmware file\"), but preclude the following:
\- The BM-SC ought be informed about basic characteristics of the service such
as service name and service language.
#### 6.9.3.6 eNews Delivery
Ingestion-related requirements:
\- Same as those for the top-10 videos use case (except for replacing the term
\"video file\" by \"eNews file\").
Inferred MBMS service announcement and delivery related requirements:
\- Same as those for the top-10 videos use case (except for replacing the term
\"video file\" by \"eNews file\").
#### 6.9.3.7 Digital Signage
Ingestion-related requirements:
\- Same as those for the top-10 videos use case (except for replacing the term
\"video file\" by \"signage file\").
Inferred MBMS service announcement and delivery related requirements:
\- Same as those for the top-10 videos use case (except for replacing the term
\"video file\" by \"signage file\"), but preclude the following:
\- The BM-SC ought be informed about basic characteristics of the service such
as service name and service language.
### 6.9.4 Use Case Independent Requirements
The following requirements apply to all of the above use cases:
\- Assuming that the SLA between the MNO and the CP allows notification of
MBMS network/service/session related events to be provided to the CP, and
depending on whether the pull or push based notification method will be
employed, the corresponding pull or push URL ought to be provided to the CP
server or BM-SC, respectively, by the opposite entity.
\- If the service is intended by the CP to be delivered to specific
geographical areas via MBMS or unicast bearers, the BM-SC ought to be informed
by the CP on the target/restricted delivery area(s).
## 6.10 ATSC Service Layer in enTV
### 6.10.1 ATSC 3.0 Overview
The Advanced Television Systems Committee (ATSC) is developing ATSC 3.0 as the
next generation ATSC Digital Television (DTV) transmission standard for use
over terrestrial broadcast, cable and satellite networks. ATSC 3.0 systems
will be deployed in South Korea in 2017 and later in the USA, and likely in
the future in other major North American countries such as Canada and Mexico.
ATSC 3.0 comprises a family of 19 component specifications which include the
physical layer, IP-based transport protocols, service and application level
signaling, content formats for carriage of streaming media services, security
and content protection, and a W3C-compliant and Web application based runtime
environment. The specific specification which defines, among other
functionality, the media content format and application transport protocols of
ATSC 3.0 services is A/331, \"Signaling, Delivery, Synchronization, and Error
Protection\" [3].
Media content produced by ATSC 3.0-compliant audio and video codecs and closed
captioning systems are encapsulated in ISO BMFF (Base Media File Format)
container structures. Two types of ISO BMFF compliant file formats are defined
in A/331:
1) MPEG-DASH as defined by ISO/IEC 23009-1 [4] and further profiled by the
DASH-IF Interoperability Point for ATSC 3.0 [5], and
2) MPU (Media Processing Unit) as defined by ISO-IEC 23008-1 [6], the latter
specification also known as MMT or MPEG Media Transport.
Broadcast transmission of ATSC 3.0 streaming services, e.g. linear TV
services, may employ either the ROUTE (Real-Time Object Delivery over
Unidirectional Transport) protocol, as defined in A/331 [3], for the delivery
of DASH-formatted content, or the MMTP protocol (MPEG Media Transport
Protocol) as defined in ISO/IEC 23008-1 [6] for the delivery of MPU-formatted
content. File delivery services, as well as other Non-Real-Time (NRT) content
such as ROUTE-specific service signaling, application signaling, application
content, Electronic Service Guide (ESG) and emergency alert messages, are
strictly delivered using the ROUTE protocol. The protocol stack model of an
ATSC 3.0 reference receiver is shown in Figure 11 below.
Figure 11: ATSC 3.0 Reference Receiver Protocol Stack
Note that broadcast delivery of ATSC 3.0 Real-Time (RT) and NRT
services/content is natively IP-based. There is no use of MPEG-2 Transport
Stream for the encapsulation and packetization of streaming media content in
the form of Packetized Elementary Streams (PES) as done in DVB-T. For
broadcast RT or streaming content, encoded samples of video and/or audio
elementary stream are encapsulated in ISO BMFF and transported by ROUTE or
MMTP over UDP/IP. For broadcast NRT content of different types, the associated
file objects are delivered by ROUTE over UDP/IP. IP packets containing either
RT or NRT content are encapsulated in ALP (ATSC Link-Layer Protocol) packets
as defined by A/330 [7], which are in turn enclosed in Baseband Packets of
Physical Layer Pipes (PLP) as defined by A/322 [8]. The protocol stack models
for RT and NRT content delivery are shown in Figures 12 and 13, respectively.
Figure 12: ATSC 3.0 Protocol Model for Broadcast Delivery of RT Content
Figure 13: ATSC 3.0 Protocol Model for Broadcast Delivery of NRT Content
### 6.10.2 Content Format and Protocol Model for ATSC 3.0 Service and Metadata
Delivery over xMB
This section and its sub-sections describe the format and protocol structure
of user plane data, in the form of ATSC 3.0 service content and service
metadata, delivered from the TV Content Provider to the BM-SC of the MBMS
network operator, across the xMB interface. As previously indicated, these
formats and protocol stack models apply to both the transport-only mode, as
well as the MBMS User Service mode with content formatting/translation to MBMS
service layer functionality performed by the BM-SC. In addition, the content
format and protocol model for the exchange over xMB of native ATSC 3.0 service
metadata and auxiliary contents such as application signaling, service
announcement/discovery signaling, ESG and other auxiliary information, are
also described.
### 6.10.3 ATSC 3.0 Service Data Content Format and Protocol Model
For streaming TV services such as live events, linear TV programs and video-
on-demand (VoD), ATSC 3.0 specifies HEVC for video encoding and includes
features such as Spatial Scalable Coding, High Dynamic Range, Wide Color
Gamut, 3D, and temporal layering, as defined in ATSC A/341 [9]. For audio, the
specified ATSC 3.0 codecs are AC-4 and MPEG-H, as defined in the ATSC A/342
Parts 2 and 3 standards [10], [11]. Video encoding is typically expected to be
set to operate in Variable Bit Rate (VBR) mode. Audio encoding is expected to
be set to either VBR or CBR (Constant Bite Rate) mode. ATSC 3.0\'s captioning
and subtitling mechanism as defined in ATSC A/343 [12] is based on SMPTE Timed
Text (SMPTE-TT) as specified in SMPTE 2052-1 [13], and in particular, employs
the subset of SMPTE-TT features defined by W3C\'s \"TTML Text and Image
Profiles for Internet Media Subtitles and Captions (IMSC1) [14].
NRT content such as download files of an ATSC 3.0\'s App-based Service, or
files of an App-based feature bound to a linear service, for display to the
user under application control, are delivered over the ROUTE protocol, defined
in A/331 [3], as file objects described by file metadata in the form of the
Extended FDT, similar to the FDT in the FLUTE protocol as specified by IETF
RFC 6726 [15].
### 6.10.4 ATSC 3.0 Service Content Protocol Stack over xMB-U
The user plane protocol stack model for ATSC 3.0 service data delivery across
xMB-U is depicted below in Figure 14.
Figure 14: ATSC 3.0 Service Content Protocol Stack over xMB-U reference point
and in the EPC
Due to the encapsulation of user plane data in IP, this protocol model has
similarity to the MB2-U interface between the Group Communication Service
Application Server (GCS AS) and the Broadcast-Multicast Service Centre (BM-SC)
as defined in TS 29.468 [17]. In broadcast delivery of ATSC 3.0 streaming
services over xMB-U, user plane data comprises ISO base media files containing
encoded media samples and carried as DASH Media Segments or MPUs by the ROUTE
or MMTP protocol, respectively. This is shown in Figure 15. The user plane
protocol model for broadcast delivery of NRT file objects over xMB-U is shown
in Figure 16. Similar to the operation of GCS application data delivery over
MBMS, ATSC 3.0 User Plane data are transparently transported between the TV
Content Provider\'s Application Server (AS) and the UE. The BM‑SC forwards
these protocol layers transparently.
Figure 15: ATSC 3.0 Streaming Service Protocol Stack over xMB-U
Figure 16: ATSC 3.0 NRT Service Protocol Stack over xMB-U
# 7 Architectural Considerations
## 7.1 MBMS Service Type 1: Transport only mode
### 7.1.1 Architecture and Interfaces
Based on the analysis and use cases in clause 6 and taking into account the
service modes in Figure 17 provides an end to end architecture for the
transport-only mode. It is assumed that the service is provided from the
content provider and there is an ability for pass-through delivery of media
content from the content provider, via user plane service on the XMB, referred
to as XMB-U, to the application through a TRAPI user plane interface, referred
to as TRAPI-U. This user service is transparently maintained end to end in
order to reuse existing service layers provided by the content provider and
existing service layer consumption modules in the application.
In addition to the user plane, the appropriate control interfaces over xMB
(i.e. xMB-C) need to be defined in order to enable the end to end delivery.
{width="6.684027777777778in" height="1.3895833333333334in"}
Figure 17: Architecture for Transport-only Mode
One of the main properties of the Transport-only mode is the ability to reuse
the existing and externally-provided service and media clients via the MBMS-
API interface as shown in Figure 18.
{width="6.692361111111111in" height="4.824305555555555in"}
Figure 18: APIs and interfaces on Content Provider and Receiver
### 7.1.2 User Plane Modes
Based on the use cases in clause 6, the following modes for the user plane may
deliver the following content on xMB-U and MBMS-API-U:
1) Circuit-switched MPEG-2 Transport stream with constant bitrate. The stream
may contain a single TV service, typically referred to as Single Program
Transport Stream (SPTS) or may be a multiplex of multiple TV Services,
typically referred to as Multi-Program Transport Stream (MPTS).
2) A service with IP encapsulation with constant bitrate. The stream may
contain a single TV service, or may be a multiplex of multiple TV Services.
3) A service with IP encapsulation with a capped variable bitrate. The stream
may contain a single TV service, or may be a multiplex of multiple TV
Services.
In all cases the streams may be encrypted or non-encrypted.
In order for receivers and applications functioning properly in all use cases,
the stream needs to be provided with certain properties to the application,
similar as defined by the Hypothetical FEC Receiver in TS 26.346 for Streaming
Delivery Mode. Details on the requirements on bitrates and other properties
require additional discussions.
The Content provider may in addition assign other required QoS parameters, for
example maximum tolerated loss rate, maximum service access time or maximum
end-to-end delay of the service.
### 7.1.3 Control Plane for Receive-Only Mode
In order to enable the delivery of such a pass-through mode, there needs to be
an end-to-end call flow in place. Figure 19 shows an example for the case of
mode 1 from above, i.e. a constant bitrate delivery is provided and no
additional.
Figure 19: Procedures for Control Plane in Receive-only mode for Circuit-
Switched Case
1) The content provider has an SLA in place with the eMBMS operator and is
assigned a set of pre-allocated TMGIs and bitrates.
2) The Content Provider announces the pre-allocated TMGIs to the Application,
out-of-band. These may be statically assigned forever or may be dynamic, but
the dynamic updates is in control of the Content Provider.
3) The Content Provider delivers the services to the BMSC and the BMSC relays
the services to the E-UTRAN. The service runs continuously.
4) An Application is installed and scans for all TV services.
5) An Application is turned on and registers with the MBMS client.
6) A program is selected and the application uses the Service Announcement to
select a specific service by activating the TMGI.
7) The Application informs the MBMS client through TRAPI on the selected TMGI.
The MBMS client selects that service and provides it through TRAPI-U to the
Application.
8) The Application may switch program which results in selecting a new TMGI.
9) The Application may terminate the reception of the of the TV service.
For the IP-based mode, the BMSC should also provide the IP delivery
information to the content provider in order for the content provider to
perform the proper service announcement.
### 7.1.4 Working Assumptions
#### 7.1.4.1 General
\- The delivery supports the following modes:
\- Circuit-switched MPEG-2 Transport stream with constant bitrate
\- A service with IP encapsulation with constant bitrate
\- A service with IP encapsulation with a capped variable bitrate
\- The streams may be encrypted or non-encrypted.
#### 7.1.4.2 XMB Interface
\- The xMB interface for these modes provides a control and user plane
interface.
\- The content provider delivers the service over xMB-U using a protocol that
provides sufficient information in order for the BMSC and MBMS network to
enable recovery of the relevant stream properties on MBMS-API data interface.
\- The content provider may provide some quality-of-service parameters for the
service, such as maximum loss rate, start-up latency or BMSC-to-MBMS client
delay.
\- The streams may include markers for modifications, such as SCTE-35
messages. However, the use of such markers for example for targeted ad
insertion, content splicing, content replacement, black-outs and so on is
outside the scope of the present document.
#### 7.1.4.3 BMSC to MBMS Client delivery
\- The delivery is IP-based
\- The delivery is not the group communication delivery
\- The delivery does not require any changes for the core and radio network
interfaces
#### 7.1.4.4 MBMS client to E-UTRAN
\- The MBMS client can select the service by information provided from the
Application through the TRAPI control interface, typically the TMGI and
possibly some IP address or filtering.
#### 7.1.4.5 Service Announcement
\- The TV service announcement is done by the application.
#### 7.1.4.6 MBMS-API
\- The API provides a control and user plane interface.
### 7.1.5 Gap Analysis
#### 7.1.5.1 xMB
\- User plane mode to deliver the three identified type of streams from the
Content Provider to the BMSC
\- Delivery of information on the stream properties that need to be recovered
at the MBMS-API-U interface
\- Resource allocation request
\- Resource allocation confirmation and provisioning of Service access
parameters
These features are fulfilled by TS 29.116 [24] in Rel-14 for CBR modes.
#### 7.1.5.2 BMSC to MBMS Client delivery
\- BMSC delivery mode with IP (need some fixed parameters), similar to the
Group Communication delivery enabler
\- BMSC delivery mode for circuit-switched, similar to the Group Communication
delivery enabler, but requiring an IP encapsulation in the delivery from the
BMSC to MBMS client
\- Basic service announcement may be necessary for certain modes, likely SDP
information
These features are fulfilled by TS26.346 [14] in Rel-14 using the transparent
delivery mode.
#### 7.1.5.3 MBMS-API
\- MBMS-API control plane API for service selection, service switching and
service deselection including different types of error handling
\- MBMS-API user plane API for service handling in order to feed data into
regular Protocol stack
These features are fulfilled by TS26.347 [23] in Rel-14 using the Packet APIs
for transport only and transport only with receive only mode.
### 7.1.6 Optimization Potentials
#### 7.1.6.1 BMSC to MBMS Client delivery
\- Basis FEC framework to enable improved QoS if delay permits based on
Streaming Delivery FEC Framework in TS 26.346
\- Addition of unicast modes to the delivery
\- Addition of MBMS-on-Demand modes
These features have not been addressed in Rel-14, but are not considered
critical.
## 7.2 MBMS Service Type 2: Full MBMS service mode
### 7.2.1 Architecture and Interfaces
Based on the analysis and use cases in clause 6 and taking into account the
service modes in Figure 20 provides an end to end architecture more for the
full service layer mode.
{width="6.684027777777778in" height="1.3895833333333334in"}
Figure 20: Architecture for Full MBMS Service Mode
One of the main properties of the Full MBMS service mode is the ability to
reuse existing 3GPP service layer for consumption of the media. The Content
Provider in this case offers the service conforming to 3GPP TV services. The
DASH Server and DASH client are expected to comply with the 3GPP DASH formats
as defined in TS 26.247 [28].
Figure 21:APIs and interfaces on Content Provider and Receiver
Two deployment scenarios may be considered:
1) The DASH Server (together with the 3GPP formats for media) are owned by the
content provider. In this case the content provider produces the formatted
media that can be distributed by following the requirements in 3GPP
specifications in order to use the 3GPP defined media, DASH client, and the
formats need to be distributed over xMB.
2) The DASH Server (together with the 3GPP formats for media) are owned by the
network operator. In this case the content provider may provide any type of
formats and services, but the network provider will convert the service and
formats in accordance to the 3GPP requirements. This may for example include
changing the metadata, delivery format or even full transcoding.
### 7.2.2 User Plane Modes
Based on the use cases in clause 6, the following content may be delivered on
xMB-U and MBMS-API-U for the first deployment scenario:
1) DASH Streaming Services using the appropriate 3GPP profile.
2) RTP Streaming service using the appropriate 3GPP profile.
3) File-delivery services for which the content complies with the appropriate
3GPP profile.
For the second deployment scenario, the content on xMB may be not follow a
3GPP profile, in which case transcoding will be necessary.
The Content provider may in addition assign other required QoS parameters, for
example maximum tolerated loss rate, maximum service access time or maximum
end-to-end delay of the service.
### 7.2.3 Control Plane
In the case of using a 3GPP profile on the user plane, the control plane needs
to announce the details of the service parameters. For details refer to TS
26.346 [14], clause 5.4A and TS 29.116 [24].
### 7.2.4 Available Enablers in 3GPP, Gap Analysis and Optimization Potentials
For technical enablers on format level, refer to clause 6.5.4.
xMB and MBMS-APIs support the services since Rel-14 in TS 29.116 [24] and TS
26.347 [23], respectively.
Open issue and gaps remain. For more discussion refer to the summary in clause
8.
# 8 Summary on Addressing Stage-1 Service Requirements
Table 6 provides an overview on the Stage-1 Service Requirements and to what
extent those are fulfilled in 3GPP with the completion of Rel-14
specifications.
Table 6: Stage-1 Service Requirements and Mapping to 3GPP specifications
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Requirement | 3GPP Service Layer | Transport-only | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The eMBMS service | Typical TV service | Pass-through of the | | layer should support | formats are | externally-define | | audio and video | documented in TR | formats, syntax and | | formats typically | 26.949 [29]. | semantics of the | | supported by TV | | service layer, for | | Content Providers | Video: | example by DVB or | | for SD and HD TV | | ATSC3.0. The video | | transport services | - Fulfilled through | formats defined in | | and UHD TV transport | formats in TS 26.116 | the TV Video | | services. | [30] | profiles TS 26.116 | | | | [30] are aligned | | | - Formats to | with DVB UHD-1 phase | | | support UHD-1 phase | 1. | | | 2 as for example | | | | defined in DVB are | 3GPP does not have | | | not supported in | any requirements or | | | 3GPP yet, but | recommendations on | | | suggestions are | external service | | | provided in TR | layers. | | | 26.949 [29] to | | | | address those. | | | | | | | | Audio: | | | | | | | | - 3GPP supports | | | | stereo audio through | | | | eAAC+ (HE-AACv2) | | | | | | | | - Multichannel and | | | | next generation | | | | audio formats are | | | | not available in | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | | | For more details | | | | also refer to | | | | clauses 6.4.4 and | | | | 6.5.4. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The eMBMS service | Typically supported | Pass-through of the | | layer should support | TV codecs are | codecs of the | | codecs typically | summarized in TR | externally-defined | | supported by TV | 26.949 [29]. | service layer, for | | Content Providers | | example by DVB or | | for HD TV services | **Video:** | ATSC3.0. The video | | and UHD TV services. | | codecs defined in | | | - Fulfilled through | the TV Video | | | codecs in TS 26.116 | profiles TS 26.116 | | | [30] | [30] are aligned | | | | with DVB UHD-1 phase | | | - Codecs to support | 1. | | | UHD-1 phase 2 as for | | | | example defined in | 3GPP does not have | | | DVB are not | any requirements or | | | supported yet, but | recommendations on | | | suggestions are | external service | | | added in TR 26.949 | layers. | | | [29] to address | | | | those. | | | | | | | | **Audio:** | | | | | | | | - eAAC+ is aligned | | | | with HE-AACv2 which | | | | is supported in DVB | | | | as stereo codec | | | | | | | | - Codecs | | | | recommendations to | | | | support multichannel | | | | beyond stereo and | | | | Next Generation | | | | Audio (NGA) are not | | | | specified in 3GPP | | | | | | | | For more details | | | | also refer to | | | | clauses 6.4.4 and | | | | 6.5.4. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The eMBMS service | 3GPP service layer | Pass-through of the | | layer should support | does not support | externally-defined | | accessibility | these functionality. | service layer | | functions typically | | functionality. | | supported by TV | For more details | | | Content Providers | also refer to | 3GPP does not have | | (e.g. subtitling, | clauses 5.3, 6.4.4 | any requirements on | | closed captioning, | and 6.5.4. | external service | | audio descriptions, | | layers. | | anonymous reception, | | | | reporting to support | | | | ratings, reporting | | | | enforcement, etc.). | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The eMBMS service | 3GPP service layer | Pass-through of the | | layer should support | does not support | externally-defined | | regulatory mandates | these | service layer | | typically supported | functionalities. | functionality. | | by TV Content | | | | Providers | For more details | 3GPP does not have | | (blackouts, | also refer to clause | any requirements on | | emergency alerts, | 5.3. | external service | | etc.). | | layers. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The eMBMS service | 3GPP service layer | Pass-through of the | | layer should support | supports the HTML-5 | externally-defined | | interactivity | based presentations | service layer | | functions typically | as documented TS | functionality. 3GPP | | supported by TV | 26.307 [33] which | can support | | Content Providers | enables certain | interactivity by | | (interactive | functionalities. | combining broadcast | | services, second | However, the details | services with | | screen, | on whether the | unicast services | | personalization, | documented APIs are | based on LTE. | | etc.). | sufficient to fulfil | | | | the use cases as | 3GPP does not have | | | well as the carriage | any requirements on | | | over MBMS are not | external service | | | complete. | layers. | | | | | | | A more detailed | | | | analysis on use | | | | cases, requirements | | | | and gaps for | | | | interactive services | | | | is provided in TR | | | | 26.953 [31]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The eMBMS service | 3GPP service layer | Pass-through of the | | layer should support | and DASH supports ad | externally-defined | | ad insertion use | insertion and also | service layer | | cases typically | targeting and | functionality. | | supported by TV | personalization | | | Content Providers | using Periods, for | 3GPP does not have | | (targeted ad | example using xlink | any requirements on | | insertion, ad | based referencing. | external service | | replacement, etc.), | However, no specific | layers. | | | aspects on ad | | | | selection are | | | | included and support | | | | on network elements | | | | is for further | | | | study. | | | | | | | | For more details | | | | also refer to | | | | clauses 6.4.4 and | | | | 6.5.4. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The eMBMS service | 3GPP service layer | Pass-through of the | | layer should support | supports a set of | externally-defined | | encryption, security | security functions, | service layer | | and conditional | primarily targeting | functionality. | | access functions | transport security. | | | typically supported | However, the | However, 3GPP does | | by TV Content | applicability to TV | not have any | | Providers. | services is not yet | requirements on | | | studied. For DRM, no | external service | | | consistent | layers. | | | encryption scheme is | | | | defined. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The eMBMS service | 3GPP service layer | Pass-through of the | | layer should support | supports delivering | externally-defined | | efficient concurrent | multiple services | service layer | | delivery of multiple | and multiplexing the | functionality | | application | services on a single | permits efficient | | components (TV | TMGI or on multiple | concurrent delivery, | | service application | TMGIs. | but with | | signalling, | | limitations. | | statistical | Statistical service | | | multiplexing, etc.). | multiplexing on xMB | For example, | | | is not supported. | efficient | | | | statistical | | | A more detailed | multiplexing is for | | | study on statistical | further study. | | | multiplexing would | | | | be beneficial, but | | | | should be backed by | | | | very concrete use | | | | cases and | | | | requirements and | | | | need a full | | | | end-to-end study | | | | from content | | | | provider, xMB, | | | | encoding, service | | | | layer, radio layer, | | | | MBMS client, APIs | | | | and applications. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The eMBMS service | 3GPP service layer | Pass-through of the | | layer should support | supports these | externally-defined | | random access and | functionalities in | service layer | | channel change times | principle, random | functionality. | | comparable to | access is addressed | | | existing HD TV | in TV video profiles | 3GPP does not have | | services. | in TS 26.116. | any requirements on | | | Channel change times | external service | | | and latency may be | layers. | | | optimized and are | | | | for further study. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The eMBMS service | Broadcast only is | Broadcast only is | | layer should support | supported and with | supported and with | | TV service content | receive-only mode | receive-only mode | | delivery over | even a pure | even a pure | | broadcast only, | receive-only mode is | receive-only mode is | | unicast only and | available. | available. | | combinations of the | | | | two. | Unicast only is | Unicast is not | | | supported in 3GPP | supported in 3GPP | | | since Rel-12 with | for transport-only. | | | MooD, but the | | | | service is still | The combinations are | | | considered an MBMS | supported by the | | | service. | independent use of | | | | unicast and | | | The combinations of | broadcast through an | | | the two are | external service | | | supported by MooD | layer, e.g. HbbTV. | | | and unified MPD, but | | | | simultaneous usage | | | | of broadcast and | | | | unicast is for | | | | further study. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The eMBMS service | Supported by the | The transport-only | | layer should support | delivery modes and | mode with the | | delivery of | services in 3GPP TS | transparent delivery | | real-time and | 26.346, specifically | permits delivery of | | non-real-time | download delivery | real-time external | | content. | and DASH-over-MBMS. | services. The | | | | functionality | | | | carries through from | | | | the external service | | | | layers. | | | | | | | | 3GPP does not have | | | | any requirements on | | | | external service | | | | layers. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The eMBMS service | Supported by usage | Pass-through of the | | layer should enable | of XML in the User | externally-defined | | extensibility and | Service Description | service layer | | f | as well as the MBMS | functionality. | | orward-compatibility | features in clause | | | to new requirements, | 11.9 of TS 26.346. | 3GPP does not have | | formats, codecs and | | any requirements on | | other functions to | The formats in use | external service | | the extent possible. | such as DASH, 3GP | layers. | | | file format and | | | | protocols are | | | | extensible. | | | | | | | | For more details | | | | also refer to clause | | | | 6.7. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | An eMBMS transport | For the service | The transport-only | | layer should be able | layer, the use of | mode with the | | to transport TV | download delivery | transparent delivery | | streams formatted | permits to | permits real-time | | not compliant to | distribute any | delivery of external | | 3GPP standards. | format in NRT. With | services. | | | the use of the APIs | | | | the application can | Pass-through of the | | | access the files. | externally-defined | | | | service layer | | | The Generic | functionality. | | | Application Service | | | | as defined in clause | 3GPP does not have | | | 5.7 of TS 26.346 | any requirements on | | | permits to | external service | | | distribute timed | layers. | | | objects beyond DASH | | | | formats. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | A UE should be able | Following the above, | Following the above, | | to access an eMBMS | the delivery modes | the transparent | | transport session | may be used together | delivery mode may be | | with the support of | with the MBMS | used together with | | only transport | Service | the MBMS Service | | metadata. | Announcement. | Announcement. | | | Profiles for Service | | | | Announcement are | Service Announcement | | | defined in TS 26.346 | profile is defined | | | [14], clauses L.2 | in TS 26.346 [14], | | | and L.3. | clause L.5. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | An eMBMS system | Not available for | The BMSC may inform | | should be able to be | the MBMS service | the content provider | | initiated by a UE | layer, but not | through xMB on the | | with sufficient | considered as a gap. | bearer parameters | | metadata provided by | | and the content | | a mechanism other | | provider may provide | | than User Service | | this information to | | Description for non | | the UE by other | | 3GPP transport | | means than the User | | services. | | service description. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# 9 Conclusions and Recommendations
In course of Rel-14 the following gaps have been addressed to fulfil enhanced
TV Services
\- Standardized xMB interface towards the (TV) content provider
\- Receive-only mode
\- Transparent delivery method (also referred to in TS 23.746 [16] as \"MBMS
Service Type 1\", or \"Transport only mode\")
\- Shared MBMS Broadcast
\- For this purpose the following specifications are updated in Release-14:
\- 3GPP TS 23.246 [22] MBMS Architecture (Annex D and Annex E)
\- 3GPP TS 26.346 [14] MBMS Protocols and Codecs
\- 3GPP TS 26.347 [23] MBMS APIs and URL
\- 3GPP TS 29.116 [24] stage 3 aspects of xMB Interface
\- 3GPP TS 24.117 [25] TV Service Configuration Management Object
\- 3GPP TS 24.116 [26] Stage 3 aspects of MBMS service for Receive Only Mode
\- Radio Enhancements as documented in clause 4.4 of the present document.
\- A full TV service using t**he transport-only mode with the transparent
delivery in TS 26.346 [14] the Service Announcement profile is defined in TS
26.346 [14], clause L.5, and the MBMS-APIs for transparent mode.**
**\- Video formats and codecs are to a large extent supported through formats
in TS 26.116 [30].**
**\- 3GPP audio formats and codecs support stereo audio only through eAAC+
(HE-AACv2) as specified in TS 26.234 [32] and TS 26.346 [14].**
**\- 3GPP service layer supports the HTML-5 based presentations as documented
TS 26.307 [33] which enable certain functionalities for interactivity and app-
based support of TV services.**
**\- 3GPP service layer and DASH supports basic enablers for ad insertion and
also targeting and personalization using Periods, for example using xlink
based referencing.**
**\- 3GPP service layer supports delivering multiple services and multiplexing
the services on a single MBMS bearers or on multiple MBMS bearers. An MBMS
bearer is identified by an TMGI.**
**\- 3GPP service layer supports random access functionalities in principle
through DASH and TV video profiles in TS 26.116 [30].**
**\- 3GPP service layer supports broadcast only with receive-only mode,
unicast only is supported in 3GPP since Rel-12 with MooD.**
**\- Real-time and non real-time services are supported by the delivery modes
and services in 3GPP TS 26.346, specifically download delivery and DASH-over-
MBMS.**
**\- The 3GPP service layer supports to distribute any format in NRT by the
use of download delivery permits and with the use of the APIs the application
can access the files. In addition, 3GPP service layer permits to distribute
timed objects beyond DASH formats using the Generic Application Service as
defined in clause 5.7 of TS 26.346.**
**\- The 3GPP service layer supports access of an eMBMS transport session with
the support of only transport metadata using the transparent delivery mode
with the MBMS Service Announcement.**
**\- 3GPP supports the initiation of a TV service by a UE with sufficient
metadata other than User Service Description.**
The following gaps and optimization potentials up to Release-14 on the MBMS
service layer have been identified to fulfil enhanced TV Services:
\- generally
\- Video formats and codecs to support UHD-1 phase 2 as for example defined in
DVB are not supported in 3GPP.
\- Multichannel beyond stereo and next generation audio (NGA) formats and
codecs are not specified in 3GPP.
**\- Not all accessibility functions typically supported by TV Content
Providers (e.g. subtitling, closed captioning, audio descriptions, etc.) are
yet specified in 3GPP.**
\- interactivity functions typically supported by TV Content Providers
(interactive services, second screen, personalization, etc.) are not yet
specified in 3GPP except a generic HTML-5 profile. A detailed gap analysis on
interactive services is provided in TR 26.953 [31].
\- specifically for the transparent delivery method (transport-only mode)
\- Unicast is not supported in 3GPP for transport-only, but not considered as
a gap as combinations are supported by the independent use of unicast and
broadcast through an external service layer, e.g. HbbTV.
\- specifically for the full MBMS service mode
\- typical TV functions as defined in clause 5 are not available for the full
MBMS service layer mode.
**\- consistent support for ad insertion use cases typically supported by TV
Content Providers are not fully defined. For details refer to clauses** 6.4.4
and 6.5.4.
**\- consistent support for conditional access and digital rights management
use cases typically supported by TV Content Providers is not fully defined.**
\- Statistical service multiplexing on xMB is not supported. Statistical
multiplexing on the delivery is for further study, more detailed use cases and
the combination with unicast requires more study.
\- Random access, channel change times and end-to-end latency matching TV
service requirements may be subject for optimization, but would require more
detailed study.
\- Simultaneous usage of broadcast and unicast for the same service and user
has not been explicitly defined in 3GPP, but the tools available for MooD and
unicast fallback may be sufficient, but requires further study backed by use
cases.
The following recommendations are collected:
\- follow the recommendations in TR 26.949 [29] to add video formats and
codecs to support UHD-1 phase 2 as for example defined in DVB.
\- Consider generating a specification for TV audio profiles in 3GPP and
consider adding multichannel and next generation audio formats.
\- Consider generating a specification for TV subtitling profiles in 3GPP
aligned with common industry practices.
\- Consider generating specifications, where necessary, for typical TV
functions as defined in clause 5.3 taking into account new consumption models
including app-based TV consumption and MBMS / unicast reception.
\- Follow the recommendations in TR 26.953 [31] to support interactivity
functions typically supported by TV Content Providers.
\- Consider future work for consistent support of different ad insertion use
cases (yet to be collected) in the full MBMS service layer mode and DASH (i.e.
on MBMS bearers and unicast).
\- Consider a future work on consistent support for conditional access and
digital rights management use cases in the full MBMS service layer mode and
DASH.
\- Consider future work on service multiplexing and statistical multiplexing
backed by concrete use cases and requirements including a full end-to-end
study from content provider, xMB, encoding, service layer, radio layer, MBMS
client, APIs and applications and also including unicast fallback and MooD.
\- Consider future work on consistent support for random access, channel
change times and end-to-end latency matching TV service requirements in full
MBMS service layer mode and DASH (backed by concrete use cases and
requirements).
\- Consider future work on consistent support of hybrid services (i.e.
Simultaneous usage of broadcast and unicast for the same service and user) in
full MBMS service layer mode and DASH (backed by concrete use cases and
requirements).
#