# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Multimedia Telephony for IMS (MTSI) is a standardized service for
conversational telephony, TS 22.173 [2]. The media handling and interaction
are specified in TS 26.114 [3]. MTSI has been specified such that the user
experience of multimedia telephony is equivalent to or better than
corresponding circuit-switched telephony services while still having efficient
resource usage. Multimedia telephony also exploits the richer capabilities of
IMS where media components can be used symmetrically or asymmetrically in
different directions.
# 1 Scope
TS 26.114 define media handling and interaction for the Multimedia Telephony
Service for IMS (MTSI) including mechanisms for the negotiation of bandwidth
using the SDP bandwidth modifiers. The present study investigates potential
improvements for the end-to-end QoS handling with the purpose to improve the
network resource allocation for variable bit-rate codecs, rate-adaptive codecs
and asymmetric sessions (i.e. different bitrates for different directions).
The study will focus on SDP extensions and the interaction with the policy
control.
The present document:
\- 1 -- Identifies high-level use cases
\- 2 -- Evaluates for these use cases the current limitations and the expected
benefits
\- 3 -- Establishes recommended high-level functional requirements and related
recommended technical requirements
\- 4 -- Discusses potential solutions
\- 5 -- Studies impact of potential solutions on networks and terminals
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.173: \"IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem (IMS) Multimedia
Telephony Service and supplementary services; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia telephony;
Media handling and interaction\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and charging control architecture\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.212: \"Policy and Charging Control (PCC); Reference points\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.213: \"Policy and charging control signalling flows and Quality
of Service (QoS) parameter mapping\".
[7] 3GPP TS 29.214: \"Policy and charging control over Rx reference point\".
[8] IETF RFC 4566 (2006): \"SDP: Session Description Protocol\", M. Handley,
V. Jacobson and C. Perkins.
[9] IETF RFC 3264 (2002): \"An Offer/Answer Model with the Session Description
Protocol (SDP)\", J. Rosenberg and H. Schulzrinne.
[10] IETF RFC 3890 (2004): \"A Transport Independent Bandwidth Modifier for
the Session Description Protocol (SDP)\"., M. Westerlund.
[11] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; GPRS enhancements for E-UTRAN access\".
[12] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP multimedia call control protocol based on Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP); Stage 3\".
[13] IETF RFC 5939: \"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Capability
Negotiation\".
[14] IETF RFC 7006: \"Miscellaneous Capabilities Negotiation in the Session
Description Protocol (SDP)\".
[15] IETF RFC 6871: \"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Media Capabilities
Negotiation\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AF Application Function
ARP Allocation and Retention Priority
AVP Attribute-Value Pair
EPC Evolved Packet Core
GW Gateway
IBCF Interconnection Border Control Function
LTE Long Term Evolution
MBR Maximum Bitrate
MTSI Multimedia Telephony Service for IMS
P-CSCF Proxy Call Server Control Function
PCC Policy and Charging Control
PCEF Policy and Charging Enforcement Function
PCRF Policy Charging and Rules Function
PDN-GW Packet Data Network Gateway (PGW)
RTCP RTP Control Protocol
SDP Session Description Protocol
SGW Serving Gateway
TrGW Transition Gateway
# 4 Overview
Clause 5 provides a high-level description of the network elements that are
involved in the session setup and resource reservation. The rest of the
present document is organized as follows:
Clause 6 describes the use cases analysed in this study. A gap analysis is
performed.
Clause 7 describes the recommended requirements that can be derived from the
gap analysis.
Clause 8 describes and evaluates potential solutions.
Clause 9 provides the conclusion and recommendations for further
standardization efforts.
# 5 Current QoS reservation mechanisms during session setup
## 5.1 System description
IMS uses local resource reservation where each IMS network allocates resources
only for its own access.
A simplified description of the functions that are used for the bandwidth
negotiation and the bearer setup in EPC and LTE is shown in the figure below
for the case of two IMS networks A and B. The two networks may include other
elements (like IBCF and TrGWs as border elements between networks) that may
modify the SDP offer/answer according to interconnection agreement. In case
border elements are present the SDP examples in the present document may be
modified or seen as generated by such network entities instead of UEs.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="3.2819444444444446in"}
Figure 5.1-1: High-level description of the functions that are involved in the
bandwidth negotiation and resource reservation in an IMS network when EPC is
used
The resource allocation and bearer setup in EPC/LTE follows the Policy and
Charging Control (PCC) procedure in TS 23.203 [4], TS 29.212 [5], TS 29.213
[6] and TS 29.214 [7], and can on a high level be described as follows (a more
detailed description is found in TS 29.213 [6] clause 6):
1\. The P-CSCF, acting as an Application Function (AF), analyses the SDP offer
and the SDP answer and determines the session information and the media
information that will be allocated. The AF instructs the Policy Charging and
Rules Function (PCRF) to allocate resources for the Service Data Flow. Both
the SDP session information and the media information are included in the Rx
service information.
\- Before sending the service information to the PCRF, the AF maps the
m-lines, c-lines, b-lines and the direction attributes from the SDP to the
corresponding Attribute-Value Pairs (AVP) in the service information. The AF
provides the media-related attribute lines in the SDP in transparent container
AVPs as part of the media information. The AF may also provide an application
identifier.
\- The media information includes the media properties, for example maximum
UL/DL bitrates for media, UL/DL bitrates for RTCP, codec information, etc.
2\. The PCRF converts the requested session information into a set of QoS
parameters for the Service Data Flow.
\- The PCRF can also take other information into account when determining the
QoS parameters, for example operator policies and subscription information.
\- The PCRF may use media-level SDP attribute lines in the service
information, the identity of the application and/or operator specific policies
to override bandwidth information directly included in the service
information. Codec specific algorithms that the PCRF can apply to derive
bandwidth information are not standardized, but can be based on the QoS
examples in Annex E of TS 26.114 [3].
\- The common QoS parameters for all Service Data Flows are: QoS Class
Identifier (QCI), and Allocation and Retention Priority (ARP). The additional
parameters for Service Data Flows characterized by a GBR QCI are: Maximum Bit
Rate (MBR) and Guaranteed Bit Rate (GBR), for uplink and downlink
respectively. The additional parameters for Service Data Flows characterized
by a non-GBR bearers are: Maximum Bit Rate (MBR), for uplink and downlink,
respectively.
3\. The PCRF requests the Policy and Charging Enforcement Function (PCEF) to
assign the set of QoS parameters to the Service Data Flow through a PCC rule.
Additionally the PCRF may request the PCEF to assign for all non-GBR bearers
an APN Aggregated MBR (APN AMBR). The PCEF applies the PCC rule(s) to a
Service Data Flow by mapping the associated traffic to an existing bearer or
by establishing and mapping the traffic to a dedicated bearer (or bearers)
between the UE and the PCEF. This includes sending a bearer setup request or a
bearer modification request to the RAN to set up or modify Radio Bearer(s) in
accordance with the QoS parameters. The PCEF is located in the Packet Data
Network Gateway (PDN-GW), a.k.a. PGW.
\- When reserving radio resources, the RAN may also take into account the
possible bandwidth savings caused by speech pauses and Robust Header
Compression (ROHC). This is not handled by the PCC specifications.
4\. The PGW monitors the RTP media traffic and the RTCP traffic, and enforces
compliance to APN-MBR rates for non-GBR bearers by dropping packets that
exceed the limit when needed. For GBR bearers the enforcement of the downlink
MBR is in PGW and uplink MBR in the RAN. The PGW also enforces the downlink
and uplink MBR per Service Data Flow.
If a non-GBR bearer was requested and if RAN can set up/modify a Radio Bearer
with the requested QoS parameter then the RAN does not reserve dedicated
resources for the bearer, i.e. the available bandwidth of the radio bearer can
be below the MBR and vary over time without any notification from the RAN to
the PGW.
If a GBR bearer was requested and if RAN can set up/modify a Radio Bearer with
the requested QoS parameters then it is expected that RAN reserves dedicated
resources for the bearer based on the requested GBR. If MBR for a bearer is
greater than GBR, the available bandwidth for the bearer, for bitrates greater
than GBR and up to the requested MBR, is not guaranteed, i.e. the available
bandwidth of the radio bearer can be between the GBR and MBR and vary over
time without any notification from the RAN to the PGW.
If the RAN cannot set up/modify a Radio Bearer then the bearer
setup/modification request will be rejected. The PCRF may inform the P-CSCF
that resources to be associated to the Service Data Flow could not be
allocated. The P-CSCF takes action on the SIP session.
A QoS aware terminal will detect if the available bearer resources (as
indicated via GBR and MBR values) for a Service Data Flow are lower than the
total bandwidth for media and RTCP as indicated in SDP. The terminal will then
start a new SDP offer/answer to update the media according to the available
resources, see also TS 26.114 [3] clause 6.2.7.
## 5.2 Simple SDP negotiation and bearer setup
The description below provides more details on the handling session setup
negotiation and the corresponding bearer allocation for the simple voice-only
case.
It is in this case assumed that RAN will set up a MBR=GBR bearer.
The SDP negotiation between the UEs uses the following SDP offer and SDP
answer examples:
Table 5.2-1: Example SDP offer/answer for the session setup for a simple
narrow-band\ voice-only VoLTE call (IPv6)
+----------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP offer | +----------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 97 98 | | | | b=AS:38 | | | | b=RS:0 | | | | b=RR:2000 | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:98 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:98 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220; octet-align=1 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | +----------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP answer | +----------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 97 | | | | b=AS:38 | | | | b=RS:0 | | | | b=RR:2000 | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | +----------------------------------------------------------------+
This means that both clients want to receive 38 kbps RTP media (including 24
kbps for IPv6/UDP/RTP overhead). They also agree on using RS+RR = 2 kbps for
RTCP for the RTP session which means 1 kbps per UE since both UEs will be
active senders and the RTCP bandwidth is then divided equally between the UEs.
This means that each client is prepared to receive 39 kbps (38 kbps for media
and 1 kbps for RTCP).
The PCRF will however allocate RS+RR = 2 kbps for the RTCP bandwidth, both for
uplink and downlink. The radio bearers will therefore be set up with
(resulting in no additional resource allocation to allow for redundancy
transmission):
\- MBR-UL = GBR-UL = 40 kbps (38 kbps for media and 2 kbps for RTCP)
\- MBR-DL = GBR-DL = 40 kbps
## 5.3 Other system aspects
The following is not considered in this study:
\- RTCP bandwidth allocation, since this would either scale the bandwidths
with a fixed percentage, e.g. adding 5 %, or would add a fixed offset, e.g. 2
kbps.
\- ROHC usage, since ROHC is only used between the UE and the eNodeB and the
usage is not known on the application layer and therefore does not change the
bandwidth values expressed with the b=AS bandwidth modifiers.
## 5.4 Relationship between QoS parameters and rate adaptation
### 5.4.1 Introduction
This section describes the relationship between the QoS parameters and the
rate adaptation, especially how the MTSI client in terminal would use the MBR
and GBR parameters. This description assumes that the MTSI client in terminal
knows the QoS parameters. It is also assumed that the rate adaptation for
uplink and downlink are handled separately and that they are aligned for the
uplink QoS parameters and downlink QoS parameters, respectively.
NOTE: MBR and GBR are here described as matching directly the bandwidth
parameter b=AS. In reality, the value needs to be translated when converting
between the QoS parameters and the SDP parameters because: the SDP parameters,
e.g. b=AS, does include the IP, UDP and RTP overhead but not the RTCP
bandwidth; the QoS parameters does include both the media bandwidth and the
RTCP bandwidth but the IP, UDP and RTP overhead may be significantly reduced
if header compression is used.
These sections show only the bitrate adaptation. Other forms of adaptation,
e.g. frame aggregation and redundancy, are not included.
### 5.4.2 MBR=GBR bearer
When an MBR=GBR bearer is used, it is expected that the client will use
bitrates below GBR whenever adaptation is triggered.
For ECN-triggered adaptation, TS 26.114 clause 10 describes a mainly
\"binary\" adaptation, which can briefly be described as follows (assuming
that nothing else triggers the adaptation):
\- When congestion is indicated, it is expected that the adaptation logic
adapt the bitrate down to or at least towards the ECN_min_rate. The down-
switch can be configured to either go directly to ECN_min_rate or reduce the
bitrate in steps. In either case, it is expected that the down-switch reduce
the bitrate relatively quickly, as long as the congestion persist. The
ECN_min_rate parameter can be configured. Otherwise, TS 26.114 defines a
default procedure for determine the value.
\- When no congestion is indicated, it is expected that the adaptation logic
adapts the bitrate up to or at least towards the highest allowed in the
session, which corresponds to MBR. The up-switch can also be configured but it
is expected that the bitrate is increased in steps with some waiting period
in-between each increment. This means that the up-switch should be relatively
slow.
Bitrates between ECN_min_rate and MBR can occur also for ECN-triggered
adaptation but should normally only happen during transition periods between
congestion and no congestion.
ECN-triggered adaptation should normally not result in bitrates below
ECN_min_rate, but this can happen when adaptation is triggered by other means,
for example high packet loss rate, long delays or large jitter, if not limited
by the codec configuration at session setup.
In this case, the GBR is not used in the adaptation.
### 5.4.3 MBR>GBR bearer
When an MBR>GBR bearer is used, it is expected that the adaptation tries to
maintain a bitrate in-between these values in most cases.
The ECN-triggered adaptation for MBR>GBR bearers is virtually identical to
what is described above for MBR=GBR bearers. The only difference is that the
ECN_min_rate should be aligned with the GBR.
When other triggers than ECN are used for the adaptation, for example high
packet loss rate, long delays or large jitter, the MBR and GBR parameters can
be used to describe the normal operating range. Adaptation to bitrates below
GBR can be done but should happen relatively rarely. The local access should
ensure that adaptation to bitrates below GBR should not be needed. However,
the performance in the remote access or the aggregated end-to-end performance
may be such that adaptation below the local GBR is needed.
Similar to above, the adaptation to bitrates below GBR assumes that the codec
configuration at session setup allows for using bitrates below GBR.
### 5.4.4 Different QoS settings in different networks
MTSI is a communication service that almost always involves two users. The
users are expected to almost always be geographically separated and will
therefore use different accesses, often even different operators. Different
operators can be expected to use equipment from different vendors and/or
different releases. This means that different networks may use different QoS
parameter settings. It may even happen that one operator use MBR=GBR bearers
while the other operator use MBR>GBR bearers. The devices may even use
different access technologies. For example, one user may use LTE while the
other uses WiFi. Therefore, if the GBR values are different in the different
networks then it can happen that the bitrate is higher than GBR in one network
while still being lower than GBR in the other network, or vice versa.
# 6 Use cases
## 6.1 General description
This study describes various use cases ranging from relatively simple use
cases to more complex use cases. The simple use cases include only one or a
few fixed-rate codecs while the more complex use cases include rate-adaptive
codecs. The simple use cases are included for the purpose of discussing one
issue at a time, even though these use cases may not be the most realistic for
real deployments since it is not realistic to assume that all codecs will be
allowed in all types of access networks. For example, it is unlikely that the
PCM codec will be allowed in LTE or HSPA RAN due to the relatively high
bitrate, and there can be an operator policy that removes this codec. However,
the main issue in this study is not what exact bitrates are required for
certain codecs but rather what happens if several codecs (or configurations)
are being offered with different bitrates.
The present document uses the terminology MBR and GBR instead of Max-
Requested-Bandwidth-UL/-DL used by the AF, Max_DR_UL/_DL and Gua_DR_UL/_DL
used by the PCRF, and Maximum Authorized Bandwidth UL/DL and Guaranteed
Authorized Data Rate UL/DL used by the PCEF, respectively. This is done to
improve the readability.
## 6.2 Use case A: Single fixed-rate speech codec
### 6.2.1 General description
Alice and Bob are setting up a voice-only session. Both UEs support only the
A-law PCM (64 kbps) codec. Both UEs use 20 ms frame lengths and encapsulate
only 1 frame in each packet. Alice sends the SDP offer and Bob sends the SDP
answer as shown below.
Table 6.2.1-1: SDP offer/answer for single codec
+-------------------------+ | SDP offer | +-------------------------+ | m=audio 46000 RTP/AVP 8 | | | | b=AS:88 | | | | a=rtpmap:8 PCMA/8000/1 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:20 | +-------------------------+ | SDP answer | +-------------------------+ | m=audio 46002 RTP/AVP 8 | | | | b=AS:88 | | | | a=rtpmap:8 PCMA/8000/1 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:20 | +-------------------------+
For the media handling in the UEs, the SDP offer/answer negotiation means:
\- UE-A (Alice) wants to receive 88 kbps (64 kbps for the PCM encoding of the
media + 24 kbps for IPv6/UDP/RTP overhead).
\- UE-A will send 88 kbps.
\- UE-B (Bob) wants to receive 88 kbps.
\- UE-B will send 88 kbps.
\- Rate adaptation is not possible.
\- It is not possible to adapt the packetization because:
\- The bandwidth is limited to 88 kbps. Given that the codec needs 64 kbps
this means that the IP/UDP/RTP overhead can be no more than 24 kbps, which
corresponds to max 50 packets per second. This means that the packetization is
at least 20 ms.
\- However, the \'maxptime\' parameter limits the packetization to max 20 ms
per packet.
\- Hence the only option is to use exactly 20 ms per packet.
The Application Functions uses mapping rules to derive the session information
from the SDP offer and the SDP answer:
\- In IMS-A:
\- UE-A max send rate is 88 kbps.
\- UE-A min send rate is 88 kbps.
\- UE-A max receive rate is 88 kbps.
\- UE-A min receive rate is 88 kbps.
\- In IMS-B:
\- UE-B max send rate is 88 kbps.
\- UE-B min send rate is 88 kbps.
\- UE-B max receive rate is 88 kbps
\- UE-B min receive rate is 88 kbps
The AF sends these parameters together with the remaining media-related
information to the PCRF.
The PCRFs then uses the session information, and possibly also the remaining
media-related information to determine the following QoS parameters for each
local radio network:
Table 6.2.1-2: QoS parameters determined by the PCRF
* * *
Direction QoS parameters A Rate QoS parameters B Rate A->B MBR-UL~A~ 88 kbps
MBR-DL~B~ 88 kbps GBR-UL~A~ 88 kbps GBR-DL~B~ 88 kbps B->A MBR-DL~A~ 88 kbps
MBR-UL~B~ 88 kbps GBR-DL~A~ 88 kbps GBR-UL~B~ 88 kbps
* * *
In this case, the two RANs only have the option to allocate MBR=GBR bearers
since the codec does not support rate adaptation, since the \'maxptime\'
parameter prevents encapsulating more frames in the packet and since the
bandwidths offered with b=AS prevent higher packet rates than 50 packets per
second.
### 6.2.2 Gap analysis
Comparing the UEs send rates with the QoS parameters gives:
Table 6.2.2-1: Comparison between media bitrate and QoS parameters
+-----------+------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Direction | Media rate | QoS | QoS | Gap | | | | parameters A | parameters B | | +-----------+------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | A->B | 88 kbps | MBR-UL~A~=88 | MBR-DL~B~=88 | None, | | | | kbps | kbps | bearers | | | | | | optimally | | | | GBR-UL~A~=88 | GBR-DL~B~=88 | allocated | | | | kbps | kbps | | +-----------+------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | B->A | 88 kbps | MBR-DL~A~=88 | MBR-UL~B~=88 | None, | | | | kbps | kbps | bearers | | | | | | optimally | | | | GBR-DL~A~=88 | GBR-UL~B~=88 | allocated | | | | kbps | kbps | | +-----------+------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
In this case, no issues are found.
## 6.3 Use case B: Several fixed-rate speech codecs
### 6.3.1 General description
#### 6.3.1.1 Overview
Alice and Bob are setting up a voice-only session. Both UEs support 3
different codecs, A-law PCM (64 kbps), μ-law PCM (64 kbps) and G.729 (8 kbps).
Alice sends the SDP offer as shown below which includes all three codecs. UE-B
accepts only one codec. If UE-B accepts to use either A-law PCM or μ-law PCM
then this gives the same session and bearer setup as shown above for Use case
A. This case is therefore not considered any further below. If UE-B accepts to
use the G.729 codec then UE-B sends the SDP answer as shown below.
It should be noted that the G.729 codec has a 10 ms frame length.
Table 6.3.1.1-1: First SDP offer and SDP answer for use case B.
+------------------------------+ | SDP offer | +------------------------------+ | m=audio 46000 RTP/AVP 8 0 18 | | | | b=AS:88 | | | | a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000/1 | | | | a=rtpmap:8 PCMA/8000/1 | | | | a=rtpmap:18 G729/8000/1 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:80 | +------------------------------+ | SDP answer | +------------------------------+ | m=audio 46002 RTP/AVP 18 | | | | b=AS:32 | | | | a=rtpmap:18 G729/8000/1 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:80 | +------------------------------+
This means that Alice is limited to send max 32 kbps and Bob is limited to
send max 88 kbps.
#### 6.3.1.2 SDP impacts on media handling
For the media handling in the UEs, the SDP offer/answer negotiation means for
the A->B direction:
\- UE-A can send max 32 kbps because of the limitation to 32 kbps in the SDP
answer.
\- The media encoding needs 8 kbps which means that the IPv6/UDP/RTP overhead
is limited to max 24 kbps, which is achieved for 50 packets per second (two 10
ms frames per packet = 20 ms per packet).
\- This should be regarded as the normal packetization scheme.
\- The IPv6/UDP/RTP overhead can be reduced if the packet rate is reduced.
This gives a few possible variants, for example (but not limited to):
\- Send 4 non-redundant frames (= 40 ms) in each packet. This gives a packet
rate of 25 packets per second and an IPv6/UDP/RTP overhead of 12 kbps. This
leaves 12 kbps for redundancy transmission (max 150 % redundancy). However,
the \'maxptime\' parameter prevents using this amount of redundancy. With
\'maxptime\' set to 80 it is only possible to include 40 ms of redundant
frames in each packet (8 kbps), which gives a redundancy level of 100 %. As
such, the total bandwidth becomes 28 kbps.
\- Send 6 non-redundant frames (= 60 ms) in each packet. This gives a packet
rate of 16.67 packets per second and an IPv6/UDP/RTP overhead of 8 kbps. This
leaves 16 kbps for redundancy transmission (max 200 % redundancy). However,
the \'maxptime\' parameter prevents using this amount of redundancy. With
\'maxptime\' set to 80 it is only possible to include 20 ms of redundant
frames in each packet (2.67 kbps), which gives a redundancy level of 33.33 %.
As such, the total bandwidth becomes 18.67 kbps.
\- The lowest possible bandwidth is achieved when sending 8 non-redundant
frames (80 ms) in the packets. This reduces the IPv6/UDP/RTP overhead to 6
kbps and the total bandwidth becomes 14 kbps.
\- This would leave 18 kbps that could be used for redundancy. However, the
\'maxptime\' parameter prevents adding redundant frames to the packets.
\- When the UE is not adapting, then the bandwidth will be 32 kbps.
\- When the UE is adapting, then the bandwidth can be anything between 14 and
32 kbps. The bandwidth is upwards limited by b=AS in the SDP answer and
downwards limited by the \'maxptime\' parameter.
For the B->A direction there are more possibilities:
\- UE-B can send 1 frame in the packet which gives 100 packets per second.
Such packetization would give an IPv6/UDP/RTP overhead of 48 kbps and the
total bitrate would be 56 kbps, assuming that no redundancy is used.
\- UE-B could use the remaining 32 kbps for redundancy and send 1 original
frame and 4 redundant frames in the packets, while still sending 100 packets
per second. This means a maximum redundancy of 400 %.
\- If UE-B limits the packet rate to 50 packets per second then it could send
up to 64 kbps media without exceeding the 88 kbps limit. However, since the
\'maxptime\' parameter is 80 ms then this allows sending only 8 frames in the
packet out of which 2 frames are original frames. This leaves 6 redundant
frames per packet which gives a redundancy level of 300 %. This gives a
maximum media bandwidth of 32 kbps, an IPv6/UDP/RTP overhead of 24 kbps and a
total maximum bandwidth of 56 kbps.
\- With a larger \'maxptime\' value the UE-B could use up to 700 % redundancy
(56 kbps) without exceeding the 88 kbps bandwidth limit while still keeping a
packet rate of 50 packets per second, but this would require a \'maxptime\'
value of 160 ms (2 non-redundant frames and 14 redundant frames, 10 ms each).
\- With the \'maxptime\' parameter set to 240 ms, as recommended in TS 26.114,
then further variants are possible.
\- The lowest bitrate that UE-B could achieve is when encapsulating 8 non-
redundant frames in the packets. Such encapsulation would reduce the
IPv6/UDP/RTP overhead to 6 kbps and the total bitrate would be 14 kbps.
\- When the UE is not adapting, then the bandwidth will be 32 kbps.
\- When the UE is adapting, then the bandwidth can be anything between 14 and
88 kbps.
#### 6.3.1.3 Bearer allocation based on first SDP offer/answer
All these possibilities mean that the PCRF have many different options to
consider when determining the session information parameters, but the two most
probable options are likely:
\- Option 1: Assume that the session will be asymmetric with max 32 kbps in
the A->B direction and max 88 kbps in the B->A direction.
\- According to TS 29.213, clause 6.2, the P-CSCF will select Max-Requested-
Bandwidth-UL according to b=AS in the SDP offer and Max-Requested-Bandwidth-DL
according to b=AS in the SDP answer, but for other AFs this is only a
recommendation.
\- The PCRF may still also override these values.
\- The use of b=AS in the resource reservation may lead to asymmetric bearers.
\- Option 2: Assume that the session will be symmetric with max 32 kbps in
both directions.
\- According to TS 29.213, clause 6.3, the PCRF prefers to select Max-
Requested-Bandwidth-UL/DL based on the codec-specific algorithm for the codec
for which the codec specific algorithm exist, regardless of how MBR UL/DL was
set by the AF.
\- The use of codec specific algorithm in the resource reservation leads to
symmetric bearers.
For the minimum bandwidth, the PCRFs could set this to anything from 14 kbps
up to 32 kbps for A->B direction and anything from 14 kbps up to either 32 or
88 kbps for the B->A direction, depending on whether the PCRFs choose option 1
or option 2. The PCRF however selects one single value for the minimum
bandwidth. This value needs to be derived from codec specific algorithms or
from operator policies since there is no information in the SDP that tells
what the UEs plan to use.
It should be noted that there is nothing in the SDPs that show how much
redundancy the UEs are allowed to use or how much they plan to use. There is
also no information about whether they plan to send 100 packets per second, 50
packets per second or something else. The \'ptime\' parameter is only a
recommendation and the \'maxprate\' parameter defined in RFC 3890 [10] is not
used in TS 26.114. However, TS 24.229 has defined the b=TIAS bandwidth
modifier and the \'maxprate\' parameter as optional SDP parameters. A client
specification could introduce limitations on what the clients are allowed to
do, for example how much redundancy that is allowed, but the AFs would then
have to rely on other mechanisms like a feature tag, or similar, to determine
which specification the UE follows (if any).
If both AFs choose option 1 then the PCRFs would set the Authorized IP QoS
parameters to (the PCRF has to choose one single value but the tables indicate
the range that could be considered):
Table 6.3.1.3-1: Bearer allocation when both networks do resource reservation
according to option 1
* * *
Direction QoS parameters A (asymmetric) Rate QoS parameters B (asymmetric)
Rate A->B MBR-UL~A~ 32 kbps MBR-DL~B~ 32 kbps GBR-UL~A~ 14-32 kbps GBR-DL~B~
14-32 kbps B->A MBR-DL~A~ 88 kbps MBR-UL~B~ 88 kbps GBR-DL~A~ 14-88 kbps GBR-
UL~B~ 14-88 kbps
* * *
If both AFs choose option 2 then the PCRFs would set the QoS parameters to:
Table 6.3.1.3-2: Bearer allocation when both networks do resource reservation
according to option 2
* * *
Direction QoS parameters A (symmetric) Rate QoS parameters B (symmetric) Rate
A->B MBR-UL~A~ 32 kbps MBR-DL~B~ 32 kbps GBR-UL~A~ 14-32 kbps GBR-DL~B~ 14-32
kbps B->A MBR-DL~A~ 32 kbps MBR-UL~B~ 32 kbps GBR-DL~A~ 14-32 kbps GBR-UL~B~
14-32 kbps
* * *
Another possibility is that the AF in IMS-A chooses option 1 while the AF in
IMS-B chooses option 2. The respective PCRFs would set the QoS parameters to:
Table 6.3.1.3-3: Bearer allocation when network A does resource reservation
according to option 1 and network B does resource reservation according to
option 2
* * *
Direction QoS parameters A (asymmetric) Rate QoS parameters B (symmetric) Rate
A->B MBR-UL~A~ 32 kbps MBR-DL~B~ 32 kbps GBR-UL~A~ 14-32 kbps GBR-DL~B~ 14-32
kbps B->A MBR-DL~A~ 88 kbps MBR-UL~B~ 32 kbps GBR-DL~A~ 14-88 kbps GBR-UL~B~
14-32 kbps
* * *
Correspondingly, if the AF in IMS-A chooses option 2 and the AF in IMS-B
chooses option 1 then the respective PCRFs would set the QoS parameters to:
Table 6.3.1.3-4: Bearer allocation when network A does resource reservation
according to option 2 and network B does resource reservation according to
option 1
* * *
Direction QoS parameters A (symmetric) Rate QoS parameters B (asymmetric) Rate
A->B MBR-UL~A~ 32 kbps MBR-DL~B~ 32 kbps GBR-UL~A~ 14-32 kbps GBR-DL~B~ 14-32
kbps B->A MBR-DL~A~ 32 kbps MBR-UL~B~ 88 kbps GBR-DL~A~ 14-32 kbps GBR-UL~B~
14-88 kbps
* * *
Since local resource reservation is used in IMS this means that the RAN in
network A allocates bearers according to the PCRF-A\'s request, and that RAN
in network B allocates bearers according to PCRF-B\'s request.
When RAN allocates the bearers then it is expected to use:
\- If an MBR=GBR bearer is allocated:
\- MBR-UL = MBR-UL for RAN A and B, respectively.
\- MBR-DL = MBR-DL for RAN A and B, respectively.
\- GBR-UL = MBR-UL for RAN A and B, respectively.
\- GBR-DL = MBR-DL for RAN A and B, respectively.
\- If an MBR>GBR bearer is allocated:
\- MBR-UL = MBR-UL for RAN A and B, respectively.
\- MBR-DL = MBR-DL for RAN A and B, respectively.
\- GBR-UL = GBR-UL for RAN A and B, respectively.
\- GBR-DL = GBR-DL for RAN A and B, respectively.
#### 6.3.1.4 Bearer allocation based on second SDP offer/answer
One of the identified potential solutions is that UE-A sends a second SDP
offer/answer with only the selected codec. This allows UE-A to modify the
bandwidth that she is willing to receive, see example below. This solution is
already used in TS 26.114 clause 6.2.7 to align the media bandwidth for the
receiving direction with the downlink QoS parameters. It is investigated here
if the solution can also be used to align the media bandwidth for the sending
direction with the uplink QoS parameters.
Table 6.3.1.4-1: Second SDP offer and SDP answer for use case B
+--------------------------+ | Second SDP offer | +--------------------------+ | m=audio 46000 RTP/AVP 18 | | | | b=AS:32 | | | | a=rtpmap:18 G729/8000/1 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:80 | +--------------------------+ | Second SDP answer | +--------------------------+ | m=audio 46002 RTP/AVP 18 | | | | b=AS:32 | | | | a=rtpmap:18 G729/8000/1 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:80 | +--------------------------+
This would mean that both Alice and Bob will be limited to sending max 32
kbps.
It is also expected that the AFs will set the Max-Requested-Bandwidth to 32
kbps, for both UL and DL. Correspondingly, both PCRFs will also set the MBR-UL
and MBR-DL parameters to 32 kbps.
For the setting of GBR-UL and GBR-DL parameters the PCRF still need to rely on
operator policies or codec-specific algorithms since the second SDP
offer/answer still does not include any information about the minimum bitrate
that the clients want when receiving or plan to use when sending.
If the MTSI client is QoS aware then it will know how GBR-UL/DL is set for the
local access, but there is no mechanisms available in SDP that the MTSI client
could use to inform the remote client about the local settings. This may have
consequences for the adaptation. One example is when the local QoS parameters
are sets to MBR=32 kbps and GBR=14 kbps while the remote RAN has allocated a
bearer with MBR=GBR=32 kbps. If congestion occurs in the local downlink then
the remote client has no way of knowing how it should adapt to reduce/remove
the congestion.
### 6.3.2 Gap analysis after 1st SDP offer/answer
#### 6.3.2.1 Common
The media rate (UE send rate) shown in the tables below is determined from the
information in the SDPs. The case when the client uses also the QoS parameters
for the UL bearer to limit the sending rate is commented below the tables,
where needed.
The tables below indicate the bitrate range that can be considered for GBR.
The PCRF chooses one value within this range.
The Gap analysis consists of separate analyses for Network A and Network B,
Gap A and Gap B, respectively. It is judged whether the QoS parameter is
optimal, over-allocated or under-allocated with respect to the local access.
An end-to-end Gap analysis is also made, Gap AB, with the following rules:
\- If either Gap A or Gap B shows \'under-allocation\', then Gap AB becomes
\'under-allocation\', regardless of the other Gap.
\- If both Gaps show \'optimal\', then Gap AB becomes \'optimal\'.
\- If one Gap shows \'over-allocation\' and the other shows \'optimal\' then
Gap AB becomes \'over-allocation\'.
#### 6.3.2.2 IMS-A chooses Option 1; IMS-B chooses Option 1
Comparing the UEs send rates with the QoS parameters when both RANs set up
bearers according to option 1 gives:
Table 6.3.2.2-1: Gap analysis when both networks do resource reservation
according to option 1
+----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Id | Dire | Media | QoS | Gap A | QoS | Gap B | Gap | | | ction | rate | param | | param | | AB | | | | | eters | | eters | | | | | | | A\ | | B\ | | | | | | | (a | | (a | | | | | | | symme | | symme | | | | | | | tric) | | tric) | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | A | A->B | 14-32 | MB | Op | MB | Op | Op | | | | kbps | R-UL~ | timal | R-DL~ | timal | timal | | | 50 | | A~=32 | | B~=32 | | | | | p | | kbps | Op | kbps | Op | Op | | | acket | | | timal | | timal | timal | | | s/sec | | GBR-U | | GBR-D | | | | | | | L~A~= | | L~B~= | | | | | | | 14-32 | | 14-32 | | | | | | | kbps | | kbps | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B1 | B->A | 14-32 | MB | Over- | MB | Over- | Over- | | | | kbps | R-DL~ | alloc | R-UL~ | alloc | alloc | | | 50 | | A~=88 | ation | B~=88 | ation | ation | | | p | | kbps | | kbps | | | | | acket | | | Over- | | Over- | Over- | | | s/sec | | GBR-D | alloc | GBR-U | alloc | alloc | | | | | L~A~= | ation | L~B~= | ation | ation | | | No | | 14-88 | | 14-88 | | | | | redun | | kbps | | kbps | | | | | dancy | | | | | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B2 | B->A | 14-56 | MB | Over- | MB | Over- | Over- | | | | kbps | R-DL~ | alloc | R-UL~ | alloc | alloc | | | 100 | | A~=88 | ation | B~=88 | ation | ation | | | p | | kbps | | kbps | | | | | acket | | | Over- | | Over- | Over- | | | s/sec | | GBR-D | alloc | GBR-U | alloc | alloc | | | | | L~A~= | ation | L~B~= | ation | ation | | | No | | 14-88 | | 14-88 | | | | | redun | | kbps | | kbps | | | | | dancy | | | | | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B3 | B->A | 14-56 | MB | Over- | MB | Over- | Over- | | | | kbps | R-DL~ | alloc | R-UL~ | alloc | alloc | | | 50 | | A~=88 | ation | B~=88 | ation | ation | | | p | | kbps | | kbps | | | | | acket | | | Over- | | Over- | Over- | | | s/sec | | GBR-D | alloc | GBR-U | alloc | alloc | | | | | L~A~= | ation | L~B~= | ation | ation | | | Up to | | 14-88 | | 14-88 | | | | | 300 % | | kbps | | kbps | | | | | redun | | | | | | | | | dancy | | | | | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B4 | B->A | 14-88 | MB | Op | MB | Op | Op | | | | kbps | R-DL~ | timal | R-UL~ | timal | timal | | | 100 | | A~=88 | | B~=88 | | | | | p | | kbps | Op | kbps | Op | Op | | | acket | | | timal | | timal | timal | | | s/sec | | GBR-D | | GBR-U | | | | | | | L~A~= | | L~B~= | | | | | Up to | | 14-88 | | 14-88 | | | | | 400 % | | kbps | | kbps | | | | | redun | | | | | | | | | dancy | | | | | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Knowledge about the QoS parameters for the bearers does not solve the over-
allocation (case B1, B2, B3) because the bearers in the B->A direction are
allocated based on what UE-A declares that it is capable of receiving when
sending the SDP offer to UE-B, and there is no information about what bitrate
UE-B wants to send in the SDP answer that UE-B sends to UE-A.
In general, over-allocation cannot be solved by the knowing the QoS parameters
in the client. This can only be solved by providing more information from the
clients to the network, which is not included in the 1st offer-answer.
#### 6.3.2.3 IMS-A chooses Option 2; IMS-B chooses Option 2
Comparing the UEs send rates with the QoS parameters when both RANs set up
bearers according to option 2 gives:
Table 6.3.2.3-1: Gap analysis when both networks do resource reservation
according to option 2
+----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Id | Dire | Media | QoS | Gap A | QoS | Gap B | Gap | | | ction | rate | param | | param | | AB | | | | | eters | | eters | | | | | | | A\ | | B\ | | | | | | | ( | | ( | | | | | | | symme | | symme | | | | | | | tric) | | tric) | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | A | A->B | 14-32 | MB | Op | MB | Op | Op | | | | kbps | R-UL~ | timal | R-DL~ | timal | timal | | | 50 | | A~=32 | | B~=32 | | | | | p | | kbps | Op | kbps | Op | Op | | | acket | | | timal | | timal | timal | | | s/sec | | GBR-U | | GBR-D | | | | | | | L~A~= | | L~B~= | | | | | | | 14-32 | | 14-32 | | | | | | | kbps | | kbps | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B1 | B->A | 14-32 | MB | Op | MB | Op | Op | | | | kbps | R-DL~ | timal | R-UL~ | timal | timal | | | 50 | | A~=32 | | B~=32 | | | | | p | | kbps | Op | kbps | Op | Op | | | acket | | | timal | | timal | timal | | | s/sec | | GBR-D | | GBR-U | | | | | | | L~A~= | | L~B~= | | | | | No | | 14-32 | | 14-32 | | | | | redun | | kbps | | kbps | | | | | dancy | | | | | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B2 | B->A | 14-56 | MB | U | MB | U | U | | | | kbps | R-DL~ | nder- | R-UL~ | nder- | nder- | | | 100 | | A~=32 | alloc | B~=32 | alloc | alloc | | | p | | kbps | ation | kbps | ation | ation | | | acket | | | | | | | | | s/sec | | GBR-D | U | GBR-U | U | U | | | | | L~A~= | nder- | L~B~= | nder- | nder- | | | No | | 14-32 | alloc | 14-32 | alloc | alloc | | | redun | | kbps | ation | kbps | ation | ation | | | dancy | | | | | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B3 | B->A | 14-56 | MB | U | MB | U | U | | | | kbps | R-DL~ | nder- | R-UL~ | nder- | nder- | | | 50 | | A~=32 | alloc | B~=32 | alloc | alloc | | | p | | kbps | ation | kbps | ation | ation | | | acket | | | | | | | | | s/sec | | GBR-D | U | GBR-U | U | U | | | | | L~A~= | nder- | L~B~= | nder- | nder- | | | Up to | | 14-32 | alloc | 14-32 | alloc | alloc | | | 300 % | | kbps | ation | kbps | ation | ation | | | redun | | | | | | | | | dancy | | | | | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B4 | B->A | 14-88 | MB | U | MB | U | U | | | | kbps | R-DL~ | nder- | R-UL~ | nder- | nder- | | | 100 | | A~=32 | alloc | B~=32 | alloc | alloc | | | p | | kbps | ation | kbps | ation | ation | | | acket | | | | | | | | | s/sec | | GBR-D | U | GBR-U | U | U | | | | | L~A~= | nder- | L~B~= | nder- | nder- | | | Up to | | 14-32 | alloc | 14-32 | alloc | alloc | | | 400 % | | kbps | ation | kbps | ation | ation | | | redun | | | | | | | | | dancy | | | | | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
By knowing the QoS parameters for the bearers a client could handle the issues
with under-allocation (case B2, B3, B4) in the local network (network A for
UE-A and network B for UE-B, respectively). In this case, handling the under-
allocation in one network also handles the under-allocation in the other
network because the QoS parameters for RAN-A are the same as in RAN-B.
However, in the general case, a client cannot handle under-allocation
occurring in the remote network since it does not know how the bearers in the
remote network are set up.
It should be noted that, according to TS 24.229 Annex L [12], a UE using LTE
access is required to be QoS aware. In addition, according to TS 24.229 Annex
B, a UE using UTRAN or GPRS access is also required to be QoS aware. An MTSI
client in such a UE could then get the information about the local QoS
parameters if cross-layer communication is used. However, there is no
requirement in for example TS 26.114 that an API for cross-layer communication
does exist.
#### 6.3.2.4 IMS-A chooses Option 1; IMS-B chooses Option 2
Comparing the UEs send rates with the QoS parameters when RAN-A set up bearers
according to option 1 and RAN-B set up bearers according to option 2 gives:
Table 6.3.2.4-1: Gap analysis when network A does resource reservation
according to option 1 and network B does resource reservation according to
option 2
+----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Id | Dire | Media | QoS | Gap A | QoS | Gap B | Gap | | | ction | rate | param | | param | | AB | | | | | eters | | eters | | | | | | | A\ | | B\ | | | | | | | (a | | ( | | | | | | | symme | | symme | | | | | | | tric) | | tric) | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | A | A->B | 14-32 | MB | Op | MB | Op | Op | | | | kbps | R-UL~ | timal | R-DL~ | timal | timal | | | 50 | | A~=32 | | B~=32 | | | | | p | | kbps | Op | kbps | Op | Op | | | acket | | | timal | | timal | timal | | | s/sec | | GBR-U | | GBR-D | | | | | | | L~A~= | | L~B~= | | | | | | | 14-32 | | 14-32 | | | | | | | kbps | | kbps | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B1 | B->A | 14-32 | MB | Over- | MB | Op | Over- | | | | kbps | R-DL~ | alloc | R-UL~ | timal | alloc | | | 50 | | A~=88 | ation | B~=32 | | ation | | | p | | kbps | | kbps | Op | | | | acket | | | Over- | | timal | Over- | | | s/sec | | GBR-D | alloc | GBR-U | | alloc | | | | | L~A~= | ation | L~B~= | | ation | | | No | | 14-88 | | 14-32 | | | | | redun | | kbps | | kbps | | | | | dancy | | | | | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B2 | B->A | 14-56 | MB | Over- | MB | U | U | | | | kbps | R-DL~ | alloc | R-UL~ | nder- | nder- | | | 100 | | A~=88 | ation | B~=32 | alloc | alloc | | | p | | kbps | | kbps | ation | ation | | | acket | | | Over- | | | | | | s/sec | | GBR-D | alloc | GBR-U | U | U | | | | | L~A~= | ation | L~B~= | nder- | nder- | | | No | | 14-88 | | 14-32 | alloc | alloc | | | redun | | kbps | | kbps | ation | ation | | | dancy | | | | | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B3 | B->A | 14-56 | MB | Over- | MB | U | U | | | | kbps | R-DL~ | alloc | R-UL~ | nder- | nder- | | | 50 | | A~=88 | ation | B~=32 | alloc | alloc | | | p | | kbps | | kbps | ation | ation | | | acket | | | Over- | | | | | | s/sec | | GBR-D | alloc | GBR-U | U | U | | | | | L~A~= | ation | L~B~= | nder- | nder- | | | Up to | | 14-88 | | 14-32 | alloc | alloc | | | 300 % | | kbps | | kbps | ation | ation | | | redun | | | | | | | | | dancy | | | | | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B4 | B->A | 14-88 | MB | Op | MB | U | U | | | | kbps | R-DL~ | timal | R-UL~ | nder- | nder- | | | 100 | | A~=88 | | B~=32 | alloc | alloc | | | p | | kbps | Op | kbps | ation | ation | | | acket | | | timal | | | | | | s/sec | | GBR-D | | GBR-U | U | U | | | | | L~A~= | | L~B~= | nder- | nder- | | | Up to | | 14-88 | | 14-32 | alloc | alloc | | | 400 % | | kbps | | kbps | ation | ation | | | redun | | | | | | | | | dancy | | | | | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
If the VoIP client in UE-B knows the QoS parameters for the bearer then the
client can handle the under-allocation in RAN-B (case B2, B3, B4).
However, UE-B cannot solve the over-allocation in RAN-A (case B2, B3, B4)
since UE-B does not have any knowledge about the QoS parameters for UE-A. The
only way to solve this is if UE-B provides information about how much it plans
to send, so that IMS-A can make a more accurate resource reservation.
#### 6.3.2.5 IMS-A chooses Option 2; IMS-B chooses Option 1
Comparing the UEs send rates with the QoS parameters when RAN-A set up bearers
according to option 2 and RAN-B set up bearers according to option 1 gives:
Table 6.3.2.5-1: Gap analysis when network A does resource reservation
according to option 2 and network B does resource reservation according to
option 1
+----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Id | Dire | Media | QoS | Gap A | QoS | Gap B | Gap | | | ction | rate | param | | param | | AB | | | | | eters | | eters | | | | | | | A\ | | B\ | | | | | | | ( | | (a | | | | | | | symme | | symme | | | | | | | tric) | | tric) | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | A | A->B | 14-32 | MB | Op | MB | Op | Op | | | | kbps | R-UL~ | timal | R-DL~ | timal | timal | | | 50 | | A~=32 | | B~=32 | | | | | p | | kbps | Op | kbps | Op | Op | | | acket | | | timal | | timal | timal | | | s/sec | | GBR-U | | GBR-D | | | | | | | L~A~= | | L~B~= | | | | | | | 14-32 | | 14-32 | | | | | | | kbps | | kbps | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B1 | B->A | 14-32 | MB | Op | MB | Over- | Over- | | | | kbps | R-DL~ | timal | R-UL~ | alloc | alloc | | | 50 | | A~=32 | | B~=88 | ation | ation | | | p | | kbps | Op | kbps | | | | | acket | | | timal | | Over- | Over- | | | s/sec | | GBR-D | | GBR-U | alloc | alloc | | | | | L~A~= | | L~B~= | ation | ation | | | No | | 14-32 | | 14-88 | | | | | redun | | kbps | | kbps | | | | | dancy | | | | | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B2 | B->A | 14-56 | MB | U | MB | Over- | U | | | | kbps | R-DL~ | nder- | R-UL~ | alloc | nder- | | | 100 | | A~=32 | alloc | B~=88 | ation | alloc | | | p | | kbps | ation | kbps | | ation | | | acket | | | | | Over- | | | | s/sec | | GBR-D | U | GBR-U | alloc | U | | | | | L~A~= | nder- | L~B~= | ation | nder- | | | No | | 14-32 | alloc | 14-88 | | alloc | | | redun | | kbps | ation | kbps | | ation | | | dancy | | | | | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B3 | B->A | 14-56 | MB | U | MB | Over- | U | | | | kbps | R-DL~ | nder- | R-UL~ | alloc | nder- | | | 50 | | A~=32 | alloc | B~=88 | ation | alloc | | | p | | kbps | ation | kbps | | ation | | | acket | | | | | Over- | | | | s/sec | | GBR-D | U | GBR-U | alloc | U | | | | | L~A~= | nder- | L~B~= | ation | nder- | | | Up to | | 14-32 | alloc | 14-88 | | alloc | | | 300 % | | kbps | ation | kbps | | ation | | | redun | | | | | | | | | dancy | | | | | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B4 | B->A | 14-88 | MB | U | MB | Op | U | | | | kbps | R-DL~ | nder- | R-UL~ | timal | nder- | | | 100 | | A~=32 | alloc | B~=88 | | alloc | | | p | | kbps | ation | kbps | Op | ation | | | acket | | | | | timal | | | | s/sec | | GBR-D | U | GBR-U | | U | | | | | L~A~= | nder- | L~B~= | | nder- | | | Up to | | 14-32 | alloc | 14-88 | | alloc | | | 400 % | | kbps | ation | kbps | | ation | | | redun | | | | | | | | | dancy | | | | | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
If the VoIP client in UE-B knows the QoS parameters for the bearer then this
does not solve the problem with under-allocation in RAN-A (case B2, B3, B4)
since UE-B has no knowledge about the QoS parameters for UE-A. The problem
with over-allocation in RAN-B (case B1, B2, B3) can also not be solved by UE-B
because the allocation is based on what UE-A has declared in the SDP offer.
To solve the problem with under-allocation in RAN-A a second SDP offer/answer,
with only the selected codec, is required. This is further discussed in clause
8.
#### 6.3.2.6 Root-cause analysis when b=AS is used for resource reservation
The use case description shows that when the SDP offer includes multiple
codecs with different bitrates and when one of the lower-rate codecs is chosen
for the session then this gives an ambiguity regarding how high bitrate UE-B
is allowed to send. The root cause for this is the reason that the SDP offer
only includes one single bandwidth value, which is set to support the offered
codec which requires the highest bandwidth.
There is no information in the SDP offer that limits how much redundancy UE-B
may use, except that according to RFC 4566 [8] and RFC 3264 [9] it is not
allowed to exceed the b=AS bandwidth and the \'maxptime\' value. In addition,
there is no information in the SDP answer about whether UE-B plans to use the
excessive bandwidth for redundancy, and how much.
The discussion in clauses 6.3.2.2 to 6.3.2.5 shows that both over-allocation
and under-allocation may occur in the B->A direction.
Over-allocation may occur if the resource reservation is based on the
bandwidth in the SDP offer when asymmetric session is assumed. Under-
allocation may occur if the resource reservation is based on the bandwidth in
the SDP answer when symmetric session is assumed. The reason for the
misalignment is that the SDPs do not include sufficient information to draw
the correct conclusions, especially about how high bandwidth the clients plan
to send.
Neither over-allocation nor under-allocation can be solved with only one
offer-answer but under-allocation occurring in the local network can be
handled if the client is QoS aware. Detection of over-allocation and/or under-
allocation in the local network can however be used to trigger a second offer-
answer negotiation including only the codec selected in the first offer-
answer. This is further discussed in clause 6.3.3.
A QoS-aware client can however not detect over-allocation or under-allocation
in the remote network so this cannot be used to trigger a second offer-answer.
#### 6.3.2.7 Root-cause analysis when codec-specific information is used for
resource reservation
If codec-specific information is used, e.g. based on TS 26.114 Annex E, then
it is likely that the session setup will result in the same bearer allocation
as if the resources were allocated based on the information in the SDP answer
(option 2). If both networks allocate resources this way then this leads to
symmetrically allocated bearers. However, since there are no mechanisms in SDP
that the clients can use to express their desired or required sending rate
then there is no way for the network to know if it was better to allocate
resources based on codec-specific information in the SDP offer and the SDP
answer than on b=AS in the SDP answer. In TS 29.213 it is defined that codec-
specific information takes precedence over the bandwidth offered with b=AS in
the SDP.
A QoS-aware client can align its transmission to the QoS parameters in the
local network also in this case but it can still not know if this is optimal
also for the remote network.
#### 6.3.2.8 Handling of over-allocation and under-allocation
Over-allocation in the network may not be a significant issue for the UEs but
it can lead to admitting fewer users, for example the number of simultaneous
voice calls the RAN will accept.
Under-allocation in the network is likely a severe problem for the UEs that
need to be handled, either by reducing the bitrate or by sending a new SIP
message so that the network performs a new resource reservation with the new
bitrate.
A UE that is QoS aware, as defined in TS 24.229 Annex B for UTRAN and GPRS or
in Annex L for E-UTRAN, will likely detect if under-allocation or over-
allocation has happened in the local network and is then expected to initiate
a new SDP offer-answer negotiation, see also TS 26.114 clause 6.2.7.
### 6.3.3 Gap analysis after 2nd SDP offer/answer
When the maximum bandwidth is limited to 32 kbps in both directions then this
gives the following Gap analysis.
Table 6.3.3-1: Gap analysis after second SDP offer-answer
+----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Id | Dire | Media | QoS | Gap A | QoS | Gap B | Gap | | | ction | rate | param | | param | | AB | | | | | eters | | eters | | | | | | | A | | B | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | A | A->B | 14-32 | MB | Op | MB | Op | Op | | | | kbps | R-UL~ | timal | R-DL~ | timal | timal | | | 50 | | A~=32 | | B~=32 | | | | | p | | kbps | Op | kbps | Op | Op | | | acket | | | timal | | timal | timal | | | s/sec | | GBR-U | | GBR-D | | | | | | | L~A~= | | L~B~= | | | | | | | 14-32 | | 14-32 | | | | | | | kbps | | kbps | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B | B->A | 14-32 | MB | Op | MB | Op | Op | | | | kbps | R-DL~ | timal | R-UL~ | timal | timal | | | 50 | | A~=32 | | B~=32 | | | | | p | | kbps | Op | kbps | Op | Op | | | acket | | | timal | | timal | timal | | | s/sec | | GBR-D | | GBR-U | | | | | | | L~A~= | | L~B~= | | | | | | | 14-32 | | 14-32 | | | | | | | kbps | | kbps | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
It should be noted that the optimality indicated here refers only to the case
when both networks assign GBR equally. This would, for example, be the case
when both PCRFs use codec-specific algorithms that derive the GBR values from
the same table. When this is not the case, for example if the PCRFs would use
operator policies that are different, then there is no guarantee that Gap AB
will be \'optimal\' even if both Gap A and Gap B are \'optimal\'. This is
because the GBR value is selected from a range and different PCRFs may very
well choose different values.
It is here also assumed that UE-A and UE-B wants to use the selected codec in
the same way. If either UE would need to use for example redundancy then the
client can only indicate this for the receiving direction by assigning a
higher bandwidth for the b=AS value. This can lead to appropriate bearer
allocation in the downlink. For the bearer allocation in the uplink the client
will have to rely on the SDP that the remote client sends and that it asks for
receiving a higher bandwidth. However, since there are no SDP mechanisms that
a client can use to indicate to the remote client that it wants to or needs to
send with a larger bandwidth then the likelihood that the remote client will
ask for exactly the correct bandwidth that the local client wants to send is
probably quite low.
## 6.4 Use case C: Single multi-rate speech codec (AMR), no extra bandwidth
allocated for redundancy
### 6.4.1 General description
Alice and Bob are setting up a voice-only session. Both UEs support only the
AMR codec (4.75-12.2 kbps, all codec modes) but follows TS 26.114 and
therefore offers both bandwidth-efficient and octet-aligned. Both UEs propose
to encapsulate 1 frame in each packet but allows for up to 12 frames per
packet, out of which maximum 4 can be non-redundant frames. Alice sends the
SDP offer and Bob sends the SDP answer as shown below. Bob accepts using the
bandwidth-efficient payload format version.
Table 6.4.1-1: SDP offer-answer for use case C
+----------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP offer | +----------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 97 98 | | | | b=AS:38 | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:98 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:98 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220; octet-align=1 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | +----------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP answer | +----------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 97 | | | | b=AS:37 | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | +----------------------------------------------------------------+
For the media handling in the UEs, the SDP offer/answer negotiation means:
\- UE-A (Alice) wants to receive max 38 kbps.
\- UE-A will send max 37 kbps.
\- UE-B (Bob) wants to receive max 37 kbps.
\- UE-B will send max 38 kbps.
\- Adaptation is possible in three ways:
\- The AMR codec supports multiple codec modes between 4,75 kbps and 12,2 kbps
which mean that the clients can do bitrate adaptation. If a mode-set is
defined by the offer-answer then this may restrict the rate throughout to only
some codec modes and/or a portion of this range.
\- Frame aggregation is also possible since both clients declare that they can
receive up to 240 ms of media in each packet (a=maxptime:240).
\- Redundancy may also be used but both clients declare that they will not
send redundant frames that are older than 220 ms (max-red=220).
\- Since the UEs cannot inform the network or the other UE what minimum codec
mode it wants to send and/or receive or what packetization they plan to use
when sending or receiving, there is no guidance in the SDPs for how the IMS
networks should select the minimum bitrate that is required for the session.
The table below gives a few examples for how the bitrate changes with the
adaptation:
Table 6.4.1-2: Total bitrate as a function of codec mode and packetization
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | # | Codec | Pac | Redun | RTP | IP | RTP | P | Total | | | mode | ketiz | dancy | pa | v6/UD | p | acket | bi | | | | ation | level | yload | P/RTP | acket | rate | trate | | | [k | | | size | ove | size | | | | | bps] | [fr | [%] | | rhead | | [pac | [k | | | | ames/ | | [b | | [by | kets/ | bps] | | | | pac | | ytes/ | \ | tes] | sec | | | | | ket] | | pac | [byte | | ond] | | | | | | | ket] | s/pac | | | | | | | | | | ket] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | 12.2 | 1 | 0 | 32 | 60 | 92 | 50 | 36.8 | | | | | | | | | | (NO | | | | | | | | | | TE 1) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | 4.75 | 1 | 0 | 14 | 60 | 74 | 50 | 29.6 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | 5.9 | 1 | 0 | 16 | 60 | 76 | 50 | 30.4 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | 4.75 | 2 | 0 | 26 | 60 | 86 | 25 | 17.2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | 4.75 | 4 | 0 | 51 | 60 | 111 | 12.5 | 11.1 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 | 4.75 | 2 | 100 | 26 | 60 | 86 | 50 | 34.4 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 7 | 5.9 | 2 | 100 | 32 | 60 | 92 | 50 | 36.8 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 8 | 5.9 | 2 | 100 | 33 | 60 | 93 | 50 | 37.2 | | | | | with | | | | | (NO | | | | | 1 | | | | | TE 2) | | | | | frame | | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 9 | 4.75 | 3 | 200 | 39 | 60 | 99 | 50 | 39.6 | | | | | | | | | | (NO | | | | | | | | | | TE 2) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 10 | 5.9 | 3 | 200 | 47 | 60 | 107 | 50 | 42.8 | | | | | | | | | | (NO | | | | | | | | | | TE 2) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 11 | 4.75 | 4 | 300 | 51 | 60 | 111 | 50 | 44.4 | | | | | | | | | | (NO | | | | | | | | | | TE 2) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 12 | 5.9 | 4 | 300 | 63 | 60 | 123 | 50 | 49.2 | | | | | | | | | | (NO | | | | | | | | | | TE 2) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | | ormat | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | exp | | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | | uring | | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | | ormal | | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | ondit | | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | | i.e. | | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | | | adapt | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | | eeded | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | andle | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | onges | | | | | | | | | | tion, | | | | | | | | | | high | | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | ates, | | | | | | | | | | large | | | | | | | | | | j | | | | | | | | | | itter | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | | | | deg | | | | | | | | | | raded | | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | ondit | | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: TS | | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | | 6.114 | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | llows | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | using | | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | | 300 % | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | edund | | | | | | | | | | ancy, | | | | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | | | | TS | | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | | 6.114 | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | | 9 | | | | | | | | | | .2.1, | | | | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | | recom | | | | | | | | | | mends | | | | | | | | | | red | | | | | | | | | | ucing | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | bi | | | | | | | | | | trate | | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | dding | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | edund | | | | | | | | | | ancy. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | cl | | | | | | | | | | ients | | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | | nsure | | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | negot | | | | | | | | | | iated | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | exc | | | | | | | | | | eeded | | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | | using | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | edund | | | | | | | | | | ancy. | | | | | | | | | | To | | | | | | | | | | use | | | | | | | | | | pac | | | | | | | | | | ketiz | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | fo | | | | | | | | | | rmats | | | | | | | | | | 8-12 | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | cl | | | | | | | | | | ients | | | | | | | | | | would | | | | | | | | | | need | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | clare | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | igher | | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | | what | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | shown | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | | 6.4 | | | | | | | | | | .1-1. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
From this table, it should be clear that using redundancy can lead to using
both lower as well as higher bandwidth than the bandwidth used for the normal
operation (AMR12.2, no redundancy). A client can only control the amount of
bandwidth in the receiving direction since the bandwidth parameter applies
only to the receiving direction. The amount of bandwidth that can be used in
the sending direction depends on the bandwidth that the remote client has
declared in the SDP that it is prepared to receive.
For a UE using LTE or HSPA access types, it is expected that the b=AS is set
such that it allows for receiving a bandwidth corresponding to the normal
operation (AMR12.2, 1 frame per packet, no redundancy). This bandwidth
limitation would then apply independently of what bandwidth the other UE wants
to send. This limits the amount of redundancy to 100 % and requires that the
clients adapt down to AMR 5.9 kbps, or lower, when using redundancy.
For WiFi, and other access types where high packet loss rates can occur
relatively frequently, it can be beneficial to allow for using redundancy,
both in the sending and receiving direction, even if this results in using a
higher bandwidth. The UE can then set the b=AS value to a larger value, but
since the b=AS bandwidth applies only to the receiving direction then this
would only enable using higher bandwidths in DL. For UL, there are no
mechanisms available to indicate a higher bandwidth for the sending direction.
The sending bandwidth is instead limited by the maximum bandwidth that the
remote UE has declared that it wants to receive, which the remote UE decides
without knowing the local UEs preferences. Hence, for sessions where one UE is
using LTE or HSPA and the other is using WiFi then the resource reservation in
the LTE/HSPA network may not be sufficient for the UE that uses WiFi.
For the minimum bitrate the situation is even worse since there are no
mechanisms that either UE could use to indicate the minimum bitrate they want
to receive or want to send.
The PCRFs will have to use codec information to try to guess what the UEs want
to do. This can be done in several options, for example:
1) Option 1: A PCRF may assume that the minimum configuration is: AMR4.75, 1
frame per packet and no redundancy. This gives a minimum bitrate of 30 kbps
(60 bytes IPv6/UDP/RTP header, 14 bytes for one AMR4.75 speech frame, 50
packets per second gives 29.6 kbps).
2) Option 2: A PCRF may assume that the minimum configuration is: AMR4.75, 4
frames per packet and no redundancy. This gives a minimum bitrate of 12 kbps
(60 bytes IPv6/UDP/RTP header, 51 bytes for four AMR4.75 speech frames, 50/4
packets per second gives 11.1 kbps).
3) Option 3: There could also be an operator policy that decides to allocate
resources based on some other configuration, for example: AMR5.9, two non-
redundant speech frames in each packet and 200 % redundancy. This gives a
minimum bitrate of 31 kbps (60 bytes IPv6/UDP/RTP header, 94 bytes for four
AMR5.9 speech frames, 50/2 packets per second gives 30.8 kbps).
The lack of mechanisms to negotiate the minimum bitrate that the UEs want to
use means that different networks may allocate resources differently. A few
example combinations are shown in the tables below.
Table 6.4.1-3: Example bearer allocation, IMS-A allocates resources for GBR
(GBR-UL~A~, GBR-DL~A~) according to option 1, IMS-B allocates resources for
GBR (GBR-UL~B~, GBR-DL~B~) according to option 2
* * *
Direction QoS parameters A Rate QoS parameters B Rate A->B MBR-UL~A~ 37 kbps
MBR-DL~B~ 37 kbps GBR-UL~A~ 30 kbps GBR-DL~B~ 12 kbps B->A MBR-DL~A~ 38 kbps
MBR-UL~B~ 38 kbps GBR-DL~A~ 30 kbps GBR-UL~B~ 12 kbps
* * *
Assuming that the UEs are QoS aware this means that:
\- UE-A may send with a bitrate between 30 and 37 kbps
\- UE-B may send with a bitrate between 12 and 38 kbps.
Another possibility is:
Table 6.4.1-4: Example bearer allocation, IMS-A allocates resources for GBR
(GBR-UL~A~, GBR-DL~A~) according to option 1, IMS-B allocates resources for
GBR (GBR-UL~B~, GBR-DL~B~) according to option 3
* * *
Direction QoS parameters A Rate QoS parameters B Rate A->B MBR-UL~A~ 37 kbps
MBR-DL~B~ 37 kbps GBR-UL~A~ 30 kbps GBR-DL~B~ 31 kbps B->A MBR-DL~A~ 38 kbps
MBR-UL~B~ 38 kbps GBR-DL~A~ 30 kbps GBR-UL~B~ 31 kbps
* * *
Assuming that the UEs are QoS aware this means that:
\- UE-A may send with a bitrate between 30 and 37 kbps.
\- UE-B may send with a bitrate between 31 and 38 kbps.
Yet another possibility is:
Table 6.4.1-5: Example bearer allocation, IMS-A allocates resources for GBR
(GBR-UL~A~, GBR-DL~A~) according to option 2, IMS-B allocates resources for
GBR (GBR-UL~B~, GBR-DL~B~) according to option 3
* * *
Direction QoS parameters A Rate QoS parameters B Rate A->B MBR-UL~A~ 37 kbps
MBR-DL~B~ 37 kbps GBR-UL~A~ 12 kbps GBR-DL~B~ 31 kbps B->A MBR-DL~A~ 38 kbps
MBR-UL~B~ 38 kbps GBR-DL~A~ 12 kbps GBR-UL~B~ 31 kbps
* * *
Assuming that the UEs are QoS aware this means that:
\- UE-A may send with a bitrate between 12 and 37 kbps.
\- UE-B may send with a bitrate between 31 and 38 kbps.
### 6.4.2 Gap analysis
The difference in maximum rate (37 kbps vs. 38 kbps) gives the same issues as
already described in clause 6.3 when multiple fixed-rate codecs with different
bitrates are offered. The difference between 37 kbps and 38 kbps might seem
insignificant. However, if the answerer would have limited the maximum codec
mode to, for example, 5.9 kbps mode then the bandwidth indicated in the SDP
answer would likely have been 31 kbps, which would give a much larger
difference. This can also be handled with a second SDP offer-answer as
discussed in clause 6.3.
The larger issue is instead what minimum bitrates that will be used, and if
the UEs use this in the adaptation. Since each UE only knows the QoS parameter
for the local access, and it does not know the QoS parameters for the remote
access, then it cannot adjust the adaptation to the bitrates allowed in the
remote network. For example, if the bearers are set up according to Table
6.4.1-4 then UE-A may choose to not reduce the bitrate below 30 kbps even
though the GBR in network B is only 12 kbps. This can be expected to cause
significant packet losses or packet delays in network B.
Additionally, since each UE have aligned the transmission to the local QoS
parameters, then they have no incentive to send a new SDP offer to try to
align the bitrates because the bitrates are already aligned. Even if UE-B
would detect that UE-A is sending at a bitrate that is higher than GBR in
network B then there are no mechanisms in the SDP to inform UE-A about this
fact since the b=AS bandwidth is used to determine MBR and there are no other
bandwidth modifiers related to GBR.
It is however expected that most clients will reduce their bitrate even below
GBR, if possible, as long as poor operating conditions remain. Hence, poor
quality as a consequence of poor operating conditions will likely be a
temporary problem and the quality should recover after a while as clients
adapt. It may however happen that clients use the GBR as a threshold in their
adaptation, for example if the bitrate is above GBR then the client may adapt
rapidly down to GBR, but further downwards adaptation may be slower. This is
because the GBR rate is supposed to be \"guaranteed\" by the network. If the
RAN would not be able to guarantee this bitrate then it would either reject
the session setup or set GBR to a lower value, possibly to 0. In either case,
if the session setup is granted then the clients have no real incentive to
adapt to lower bitrates, except for exceptional cases.
## 6.5 Use case D: Single multi-rate speech codec (AMR) with extra bandwidth
allocated for redundancy
### 6.5.1 General description
Alice and Bob are setting up a voice-only session similar to what is shown in
use case C. The difference is that Bob is using an access which may have high
packet loss rate. UE-B therefore wants to use up to 100 % redundancy with up
to 4 frames offset in both uplink and downlink even when using AMR12.2. This
means that each packet (bandwidth-efficient) will contain:
\- 1 CMR at 4 bits
\- 6 ToC entries at 6 bits each:
\- 1 ToC for the redundant frame
\- 4 ToCs for NO_DATA frames
\- 1 ToC for the non-redundant frame
\- 2 AMR12.2 speech frames á 244 bits each
\- In this case, no padding is needed to fill up to an integer number of
octets
The total RTP payload size becomes 528 bits = 66 bytes which, combined with
the IPv6/UDP/RTP overhead of 24 kbps, gives a bandwidth of 50.4 kbps. UE-B
therefore sets the b=AS bandwidth to 51 kbps.
Table 6.5.1-1: SDP offer-answer for use case D
+----------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP offer | +----------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 97 98 | | | | b=AS:38 | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:98 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:98 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220; octet-align=1 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | +----------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP answer | +----------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 97 | | | | b=AS:51 | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | +----------------------------------------------------------------+
It should be noted here that the only difference between this SDP answer and
the SDP answer shown in Table 6.4.1-1 is that the bandwidth value is
different. The SDP answers are otherwise identical.
For the media handling in the UEs, the SDP offer/answer negotiation means:
\- UE-A (Alice) wants to receive max 38 kbps (based on b=AS in SDP offer).
\- UE-A will send max 51 kbps (based on b=AS in SDP answer).
\- UE-B (Bob) wants to receive max 51 kbps (based on b=AS in SDP answer).
\- UE-B will send max 38 kbps (based on b=AS in SDP offer).
The PCRFs can use the b=AS information from the SDP offer and the SDP answer
to set up MBR but when assigning GBR they will have to use codec information
to try to guess what the UEs want to do since there is no corresponding
information in the SDPs. This means that the bearers may be set up in several
ways. The three examples shown in clause 6.4.1 may be used also here, except
that the maximum bandwidth in the A->B direction is 51 kbps.
This gives the following example bearer allocation, which corresponds to Table
6.4.1-3.
Table 6.5.1-2: Example bearer allocation after first offer/answer, IMS-A
allocates resources for GBR (GBR-UL~A~, GBR-DL~A~) according to option 1,
IMS-B allocates resources\ for GBR (GBR-UL~B~, GBR-DL~B~) according to option
2
* * *
Direction QoS parameters A Rate QoS parameters B Rate A->B MBR-UL~A~ 51 kbps
MBR-DL~B~ 51 kbps GBR-UL~A~ 30 kbps GBR-DL~B~ 12 kbps B->A MBR-DL~A~ 38 kbps
MBR-UL~B~ 38 kbps GBR-DL~A~ 30 kbps GBR-UL~B~ 12 kbps
* * *
This means that redundancy with AMR12.2 is possible in the A->B direction but
not in the B->A direction.
Assuming that both UEs are QoS aware, the sending bitrates becomes:
\- For UE-A:
\- Max bitrate = 51 kbps, allows for AMR12.2 with 100 % redundancy
\- Min bitrate = 30 kbps
\- For UE-B:
Max bitrate = 38 kbps, requires adapting the bitrate down to AMR5.9 to allow
for redundancy
Min bitrate = 12 kbps
If a second SDP offer/answer negotiation is performed then the SDP that UE-A
sends may change the bandwidth in the B->A direction. However, UE-A has no
knowledge about what UE-B wants to do, i.e. if UE-B wants to set up a
symmetric session or an asymmetric session. Hence, UE-A assigns a bandwidth
purely based on what itself want to do, i.e. AMR12.2 with bandwidth-efficient
payload format and without redundancy, without taking into account what UE-B
wants to do.
A second SDP offer/answer is therefore likely to give the following bearer
allocation:
Table 6.5.1-3: Example bearer allocation after second offer/answer
* * *
Direction QoS parameters A Rate QoS parameters B Rate A->B MBR-ULA 51 kbps
MBR-DLB 51 kbps GBR-ULA 30 kbps GBR-DLB 12 kbps B->A MBR-DLA 37 kbps MBR-ULB
37 kbps GBR-DLA 30 kbps GBR-ULB 12 kbps
* * *
If the PCRFs use codec information to assign bearers then this could result in
assigning different values for MBR and GBR. However, since there is no
information in the SDP that UE-B sends about its desired sending rate then the
PCRFs have no more knowledge than what UE-A has.
### 6.5.2 Gap analysis
If one assume that both UEs are QoS aware then one get the following gap
analysis after the second SDP offer-answer negotiation:
Table 6.5.2-1: Gap analysis after second SDP offer-answer
+----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Id | Dire | Media | QoS | Gap A | QoS | Gap B | Gap | | | ction | rate | param | | param | | AB | | | | | eters | | eters | | | | | | | A | | B | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | A | A->B | 30-51 | MBR-U | Op | MBR-D | Op | Op | | | | kbps | LA=51 | timal | LB=51 | timal | timal | | | | | kbps | | kbps | | | | | | | | Op | | U | U | | | | | GBR-U | timal | GBR-D | nder- | nder- | | | | | LA=30 | | LB=12 | alloc | alloc | | | | | kbps | | kbps | ation | ation | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | B | B->A | 12-37 | MBR-D | Opt | MBR-U | Opt | Opt | | | | kbps | LA=37 | imal, | LB=37 | imal, | imal, | | | | | kbps | but | kbps | but | but | | | | | | u | | u | u | | | | | GBR-D | ndesi | GBR-U | ndesi | ndesi | | | | | LA=30 | rable | LB=12 | rable | rable | | | | | kbps | | kbps | | | | | | | | Over- | | Over- | Over- | | | | | | alloc | | alloc | alloc | | | | | | ation | | ation | ation | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
As shown in the gap analysis, the lack of information about what UE-B wants to
send result in both under-allocation and over-allocation for the GBR values.
The MBR allocation in the B->A direction is judged as optimal since UE-B can
adjust the bitrate to the QoS parameters. However, the allocated MBR is not
the desired maximum bitrate since it does not allow UE-B to use AMR12.2 with
redundancy in the sending direction.
Since there are no mechanisms available in SDP to indicate the desired sending
rate then additional SDP negotiations will not solve the problem. The same
problem occurs if UE-B wants to use a lower encoding rate but more than 100 %
redundancy.
## 6.6 Use case E: Several multi-rate speech codecs (AMR and AMR-WB)
### 6.6.1 General description
Alice and Bob are setting up a voice-only session. UE-A supports both the AMR
codec (4.75-12.2 kbps, all codec modes) and the AMR-WB codec (6.60-23.85 kbps,
all codec modes). UE-B supports only the AMR codec. Both UEs follow TS 26.114
and therefore offers both bandwidth-efficient and octet-aligned. Both UEs
propose to encapsulate 1 frame in each packet but allows for up to 12 frames
per packet, out of which maximum 4 frames can be non-redundant frames. Alice
sends the SDP offer and Bob sends the SDP answer as shown below. Bob accepts
using the bandwidth-efficient payload format version.
Table 6.6.1-1: SDP offer-answer for use case E
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP offer | +-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 99 100 97 98 | | | | b=AS:49 | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:98 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:98 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220; octet-align=1 | | | | a=rtpmap:99 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:99 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:100 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:100 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220; octet-align=1 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | +-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP answer | +-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 97 | | | | b=AS:37 | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | +-----------------------------------------------------------------+
For the media handling in the UEs, the SDP offer/answer negotiation means:
\- UE-A (Alice) wants to receive max 49 kbps.
\- UE-A will send max 37 kbps.
\- UE-B (Bob) wants to receive max 37 kbps.
\- UE-B will send max 49 kbps.
\- Adaptation is possible in same ways as described in clause 6.4.1 for use
case C except that UE-B can use the higher bitrate to send more redundancy.
\- Since the UEs cannot inform the network or the other UE what minimum codec
mode it wants to send and/or receive or what packetization they plan to use
when sending or receiving, there is no guidance for how the IMS networks
should select the minimum bitrate that is required for the session.
The bandwidths for different configurations shown in Table 6.4.1-2 apply also
here.
Similar to discussed in clause 6.5, the PCRFs may allocate MBR in several
different ways. A difference here is that UE-B may choose to use all
combinations with a bitrate up to 49 kbps (combinations 1-11) while UE-A can
only use the combinations up to 37 kbps (combinations 1-7). This can be
aligned with a second SDP offer-answer.
The discussion in clause 6.5 on how the PCRFs may allocate GBR holds also
here. This cannot be solved with a second SDP offer-answer.
### 6.6.2 Gap analysis
The differences in MBR give the same gap as has been discussed above in clause
6.3. This can be solved with a second SDP offer-answer negotiation.
The problems caused by the GBRs have also been discussed in clause 6.4. As
described in clause 6.4.2, this cannot be solved with a second SDP offer-
answer negotiation since there are no SDP parameters available for negotiating
this information.
## 6.7 Use case F: Single video codec, symmetric usage
### 6.7.1 General description
Alice and Bob are setting up a video telephony session including both speech
and video. Both UEs support the minimum set of speech and video codecs defined
in TS 26.114, i.e.:
\- for speech: AMR (4.75-12.2 kbps); and:
\- for video: H.264 Constrained Baseline Profile (CBP) level 1.2.
For speech, both UEs propose to encapsulate 1 frame in each packet but allows
for up to 12 frames per packet, out of which maximum 4 can be non-redundant
frames.
Alice sends the SDP offer and Bob sends the SDP answer as shown below. Bob
accepts using the bandwidth-efficient payload format version. The SDPs do not
include attributes for SDPCapNeg, AVPF feedback messages, image attribute and
video orientation since these things make no difference for the current
analysis.
Since this analysis is targeting issues found for video then the SDPs do not
include audio. The SDP offer is aligned with the example SDP offer in TS
26.114, Table A.4.2a2.
Table 6.7.1-1: SDP offer-answer for use case F
+-------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP offer | +-------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=video 49152 RTP/AVP 99 | | | | b=AS:315 | | | | b=RS:0 | | | | b=RR:2500 | | | | a=rtpmap:99 H264/90000 | | | | a=fmtp:99 packetization-mode=0; profile-level-id=42e00c; \ | | | | sprop-parameter-sets=J0LgDJWgUH6Af1A=,KM46gA== | +-------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP answer | +-------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=video 49152 RTP/AVP 99 | | | | b=AS:315 | | | | b=RS:0 | | | | b=RR:2500 | | | | a=rtpmap:99 H264/90000 | | | | a=fmtp:99 packetization-mode=0; profile-level-id=42e00c; \ | | | | sprop-parameter-sets=J0LgDJWgUH6Af1A=,KM46gA== | +-------------------------------------------------------------+
For the media handling in the UEs, the SDP offer/answer negotiation means:
\- UE-A (Alice) wants to receive max 315 kbps.
\- UE-B (Bob) wants to receive max 315 kbps.
\- UE-A will send max 315 kbps.
\- UE-B will send max 315 kbps.
\- Rate adaptation is possible. However, there is nothing in the SDPs that the
functions in the network can use to determine the bitrate range the clients
are planning to use when adapting.
The Application Functions use the b=AS values from the SDP offer and the SDP
answer sets the service information to:
\- In IMS-A:
\- UE-A max send rate is 315 kbps.
\- UE-A min send rate is unknown and is therefore left undefined.
\- UE-A max receive rate is 315 kbps.
\- UE-A min receive rate is also unknown and is therefore left undefined.
\- In IMS-B:
\- UE-B max send rate is 315 kbps.
\- UE-B min send rate is unknown and is therefore left undefined.
\- UE-B max receive rate is 315 kbps.
\- UE-B min receive rate is unknown and is therefore left undefined.
The AF sends these parameters together with the remaining media-related
information to the PCRF.
The PCRFs then uses the session information, and possibly also the remaining
media-related information, to determine the Authorized IP QoS parameters MBR-
UL, MBR-DL, GBR-UL and GBR-DL. Since the AF does not provide any minimum
bitrates that could be used to set the GBR-UL and GBR-DL parameters then the
PCRF uses operator policies instead. If different operators have different
policies then GBR will be set differently in the different networks. One
example is given below:
Table 6.7.1-2: Example bearer allocation for video
* * *
Direction QoS parameters A Rate QoS parameters B Rate A->B MBR-UL~A~ 315 kbps
MBR-DL~B~ 315 kbps GBR-UL~A~ 100 kbps GBR-DL~B~ 150 kbps B->A MBR-DL~A~ 315
kbps MBR-UL~B~ 315 kbps GBR-DL~A~ 100 kbps GBR-UL~B~ 150 kbps
* * *
The difference between speech and video is that:
\- For speech, at least when using AMR or AMR-WB, the PCRF may use the codec
mode information available in the SDP to set GBR-UL/DL to the bandwidth needed
for the lowest codec mode.
\- For video, there is no corresponding information in the SDPs that is
related to the desired minimum bandwidth which the PCRF could use to set GBR.
The PCRF therefore relies on operator policies or use a codec specific
algorithm for this. The codec specific algorithm may use the QoS examples
provided in TS 26.114 Annex E. If both PCRFs use the same method to determine
GBR-UL/DL then it is likely that they choose the same values.
The lack of information in SDP can give a more or less unpredictable behaviour
when the clients need to adapt the bitrate.
### 6.7.2 Gap analysis
A QoS aware client is expected to align the bitrate range (min-max bitrate)
used for the adaptation to the allocated MBR and GBR values. However, a QoS
aware client is only aware of the QoS parameter in the local access and has no
knowledge about the QoS parameters defined for the bearers in the remote
access. A UE in network A may therefore adapt down to 100 kbps, which should
give no problems in network B. However, a UE in network B may adapt down to
only 150 kbps, which can be expected to give problems in network A if the
congestion occurred in that network. After adapting down to GBR further
adaptation may or may not happen. The figure below illustrates how the
downwards adaptation works if the client follows TS 26.114.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="4.16875in"}
Figure 6.7.2-1: Examples of how MBR and GBR may be used by the MTSI client
when adapting
When adaptation is triggered by ECN, then the sending client is expected to
adapt down to ECN_min_rate, which is aligned with GBR (if known). This first
downwards adaptation can either immediately switch down to ECN_min_rate or may
switch down in steps, but in both cases this first downwards adaptation need
to be fast. Further ECN-CE markings will not give any further downwards
adaptation because ECN_min_rate is supposed to be \"guaranteed\", even in bad
conditions. Further ECN-CE markings will however prevent the client from
increasing the rate.
It is here assumed that ECN_min_rate is aligned with the GBR. If they are
different then the adaptation is expected to adapt down to the lower of the
two bitrates.
When adaptation is triggered by other means than ECN, e.g. packet losses or
jitter, then a good reaction is to adapt fast down to GBR (if GBR\B MBR-UL~A~ 5200 kbps
MBR-DL~B~ 5200 kbps GBR-UL~A~ 2100 kbps GBR-DL~B~ 2100 kbps B->A MBR-DL~A~
2100 kbps MBR-UL~B~ 2100 kbps GBR-DL~A~ 1100 kbps GBR-UL~B~ 1100 kbps
* * *
Since UE-B is going to send max 1.1 Mbps and since MBR-UL~B~ = MBR-DL~A~ = 2.1
Mbps this gives an over-allocation in the B->A direction in both networks.
Similarly, if a UE supports the same H.264 profile and level in both sending
and receiving direction and if the UE will use a lower send rate than what is
indicated with the level (and the b=AS value) and if the UE does not use the
\'max-recv-level\' parameter to indicate a higher level for the receiving
direction, then the same over-allocation will also occur.
### 6.9.2 Gap analysis
The PCRFs has no way of knowing that a UE-B is planning to send video with a
bitrate that is lower than the maximum bitrate for the supported H.264 profile
and level.
UE-A also has no way of knowing what bandwidth UE-B will send, so initiating a
new SDP offer-answer negotiation will not resolve the issue, because UE-A has
no information that it could use to choose a more suitable b=AS value.
UE-B could also initiate a second SDP offer-answer, but since there are no SDP
parameters to indicate the desired sending rate then this will not help.
### 6.9.3 Root-cause analysis
There is no bandwidth parameter similar to b=AS that the UE can use to
indicate the desired sending rate.
Operator policies or codec-specific algorithms can be used but will only work
if they are aligned with what the UE wants to do.
## 6.10 Use case I: Multiple video codecs
### 6.10.1 General description
Alice and Bob are setting up a video telephony session including both speech
and video. Both UEs support AMR speech coding. For video, both UEs support
video coding as follows:
\- 5 inch display with 848x480 resolution.
\- H.264 (AVC) Constrained Baseline Profile (CBP) level 3.1. For the given
display size and resolution the H.264 (AVC) codec would need 690 kbps
(including IPv6/UDP/RTP overhead).
\- H.265 (HEVC) Main Profile, Main tier level 3.1. For the given display size
and resolution the H.265 (HEVC) codec would need 540 kbps (including
IPv6/UDP/RTP overhead).
\- Both UEs want to use the more efficient H.265 video codec to reduce the
bitrate to 540 kbps whenever H.265 can be used, i.e. when both UEs support the
H.265 codec.
UE-A sends the SDP offer to offer with b=AS set to 690 kbps (including
IPv6/UDP/RTP overhead) since the client needs to choose the higher of the
bitrates needed for each respective codec. UE-B accepts H.265 and sets b=AS to
540 kbps. The SDP offer and the SDP answer are the same as in TS 26.114 Table
A.4.16 and Table A.4.18, respectively.
Table 6.10.1-1: SDP offer-answer for use case I
+--------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP offer | +--------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=video 49154 RTP/AVP 98 97 100 99 | | | | a=tcap:1 RTP/AVPF | | | | a=pcfg:1 t=1 | | | | b=AS:690 | | | | b=RS:0 | | | | b=RR:5000 | | | | a=rtpmap:100 H264/90000 | | | | a=fmtp:100 packetization-mode=0; profile-level-id=42e01f; \ | | | | sprop-parameter-sets=Z0KAHpWgNQ9oB/U=,aM46gA== | | | | a=imageattr:100 send [x=848,y=480] recv [x=848,y=480] | | | | a=rtpmap:99 H264/90000 | | | | a=fmtp:99 packetization-mode=0; profile-level-id=42e01f; \ | | | | sprop-parameter-sets=Z0KADZWgUH6Af1A=,aM46gA== | | | | a=imageattr:99 send [x=320,y=240] recv [x=320,y=240] | | | | a=rtpmap:98 H265/90000 | | | | a=fmtp:98 profile-id=1; level-id=5d; \ | | | | sprop-vps=QAEMAf//AWAAAAMAgAAAAwAAAwB4LAUg; \ | | | | sprop-sps=QgEBAWAAAAMAgAAAAwAAAwB4oAaiAeFlLktIvQB3CAQQ; \ | | | | sprop-pps=RAHAcYDZIA== | | | | a=imageattr:98 send [x=848,y=480] recv [x=848,y=480] | | | | a=rtpmap:97 H265/90000 | | | | a=fmtp:97 profile-id=1; level-id=5d; \ | | | | sprop-vps=QAEMAf//AWAAAAMAgAAAAwAAAwB4LAUg; \ | | | | sprop-sps=QgEBAWAAAAMAgAAAAwAAAwB4oAoIDxZS5LSL0AdwgEE=; \ | | | | sprop-pps=RAHAcYDZIA== | | | | a=imageattr:97 send [x=320,y=240] recv [x=320,y=240] | | | | a=rtcp-fb:* trr-int 5000 | | | | a=rtcp-fb:* nack | | | | a=rtcp-fb:* nack pli | | | | a=rtcp-fb:* ccm fir | | | | a=rtcp-fb:* ccm tmmbr | | | | a=extmap:4 urn:3gpp:video-orientation | +--------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP answer | +--------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=video 49156 RTP/AVPF 98 | | | | a=acfg:1 t=1 | | | | b=AS:540 | | | | b=RS:0 | | | | b=RR:5000 | | | | a=rtpmap:98 H265/90000 | | | | a=fmtp:98 profile-id=1; level-id=5d; \ | | | | sprop-vps=QAEMAf//AWAAAAMAgAAAAwAAAwB4LAUg; \ | | | | sprop-sps=QgEBAWAAAAMAgAAAAwAAAwB4oAaiAeFlLktIvQB3CAQQ; \ | | | | sprop-pps=RAHAcYDZIA== | | | | a=imageattr:98 send [x=848,y=480] recv [x=848,y=480] | | | | a=rtcp-fb:* trr-int 5000 | | | | a=rtcp-fb:* nack | | | | a=rtcp-fb:* nack pli | | | | a=rtcp-fb:* ccm fir | | | | a=rtcp-fb:* ccm tmmbr | | | | a=extmap:4 urn:3gpp:video-orientation | +--------------------------------------------------------------+
For the media handling in the UEs, the SDP offer/answer negotiation means:
\- UE-A (Alice) wants to receive max 690 kbps.
\- UE-B (Bob) wants to receive max 540 kbps.
\- UE-A can send up to max 540 kbps, since UE-B has limited the bitrate in its
receiving direction to this.
\- UE-B can send up to max 690 kbps, since UE-A has not introduced any further
limitations.
\- Rate adaptation is possible, as for Use case F.
The Application Functions use the b=AS values from the SDP offer and the SDP
answer sets the service information to:
\- In IMS-A:
\- UE-A max send rate is 540 kbps (based on b=AS in the SDP answer).
\- UE-A min send rate is unknown and is therefore left undefined.
\- UE-A max receive rate is 690 kbps (based on b=AS in the SDP offer).
\- UE-A min receive rate is also unknown and is therefore left undefined.
\- In IMS-B:
\- UE-B max send rate is 690 kbps (based on b=AS in the SDP offer).
\- UE-B min send rate is unknown and is therefore left undefined.
\- UE-B max receive rate is 540 kbps (based on b=AS in the SDP answer).
\- UE-B min receive rate is unknown and is therefore left undefined.
The PCRFs then uses the session information, and possibly also the remaining
media-related information, to determine the Authorized IP QoS parameters.
Since the AF does not provide any minimum bitrates that could be used to set
the GBR-UL and GBR-DL parameters then the PCRF uses operator policies instead.
The MBRs and the GBRs for the A->B direction and the GBRs for the B->A
direction are aligned with the QoS example in TS 26.114 clause E.24. The MBRs
for the B->A direction are aligned with the b=AS in the SDP offer.
Table 6.10.1-2: Bearer allocation
* * *
Direction QoS parameters A Rate QoS parameters B Rate A->B MBR-UL~A~ 540 kbps
MBR-DL~B~ 540 kbps GBR-UL~A~ 64 kbps GBR-DL~B~ 64 kbps B->A MBR-DL~A~ 690 kbps
MBR-UL~B~ 690 kbps GBR-DL~A~ 64 kbps GBR-UL~B~ 64 kbps
* * *
This means that the improved coding gain is used for:
\- lower bitrate in the A->B direction; and for:
\- better quality in the B->A direction.
### 6.10.2 Gap analysis
The PCRFs has no way of knowing that a UE-A is planning to send video with a
bitrate that is lower for H.265 than for H.264.
### 6.10.3 Root-cause analysis
There is no bandwidth parameter similar to b=AS that the UE can use to
indicate different bandwidths for different codecs. This could possibly be
solved with SDP Capability Negotiation RFC 5939 [14] and SDP Miscellaneous
Capability Negotiation RFC 7006 [15].
A second SDP offer/answer could also be used where only the H.265 codec is
included. UE-A could use this to indicate the appropriate maximum receiving
rate for the H.265 codec.
## 6.11 Use case J: Single video codec, symmetric usage, bitrate variations
### 6.11.1 General description
This use case is identical to Use case F but the discussion here focuses on
bitrate variations that may occur in the session, even under normal operating
conditions with good channel condition and low network load so that there is
no need for end-to-end bitrate adaptation. This use case therefore illustrates
the bitrate variations that may be generated by a video codec if no
restrictions are applied to the encoding process.
Alice and Bob are setting up a video telephony session including both speech
and video. Both UEs support the minimum set of speech and video codecs defined
in TS 26.114, i.e.:
\- for speech: AMR (4.75-12.2 kbps); and:
\- for video: H.264 Constrained Baseline Profile (CBP) level 1.2.
Alice sends the SDP offer and Bob sends the SDP answer as shown below. Since
this analysis is targeting issues for bitrate variations for video then the
SDPs do not include audio. The SDP examples shown below are also simplified
versions without SDPCapNeg, AVPF feedback messages, image attribute and video
orientation since these things make no difference for the current analysis.
Table 6.11.1-1: SDP offer-answer for use case J
+-------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP offer | +-------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=video 49152 RTP/AVP 99 | | | | b=AS:315 | | | | b=RS:0 | | | | b=RR:2500 | | | | a=rtpmap:99 H264/90000 | | | | a=fmtp:99 packetization-mode=0; profile-level-id=42e00c; \ | | | | sprop-parameter-sets=J0LgDJWgUH6Af1A=,KM46gA== | +-------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP answer | +-------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=video 49152 RTP/AVP 99 | | | | b=AS:315 | | | | b=RS:0 | | | | b=RR:2500 | | | | a=rtpmap:99 H264/90000 | | | | a=fmtp:99 packetization-mode=0; profile-level-id=42e00c; \ | | | | sprop-parameter-sets=J0LgDJWgUH6Af1A=,KM46gA== | +-------------------------------------------------------------+
This discussion focuses on video and speech is not considered any more in this
use case.
For the media handling in the UEs, the SDP offer/answer negotiation means:
\- UE-A (Alice) wants to receive max 315 kbps (on average).
\- UE-B (Bob) wants to receive max 315 kbps (on average).
\- UE-A will send max 315 kbps (on average).
\- UE-B will send max 315 kbps (on average).
The Application Functions use the b=AS values from the SDP offer and the SDP
answer sets the service information to:
\- In IMS-A:
\- UE-A max send rate is 315 kbps (on average).
\- UE-A min send rate is unknown and is therefore left undefined.
\- UE-A max receive rate is 315 kbps (on average).
\- UE-A min receive rate is also unknown and is therefore left undefined.
\- In IMS-B:
\- UE-B max send rate is 315 kbps (on average).
\- UE-B min send rate is unknown and is therefore left undefined.
\- UE-B max receive rate is 315 kbps (on average).
\- UE-B min receive rate is unknown and is therefore left undefined.
The AF sends these parameters together with the remaining media-related
information to the PCRF.
In this case, it is assumed that the PCRFs suggest to set up a bearer with
MBR=GBR. This gives the following bearer allocation.
Table 6.11.1-2: Bearer allocation for video
* * *
Direction Parameter Rate Parameter Rate A->B Max_DR_UL~A~ 315 kbps
Max_DR_DL~B~ 315 kbps Gua_DR_UL~A~ 315 kbps Gua_DR_DL~B~ 315 kbps B->A
Max_DR_DL~A~ 315 kbps Max_DR_UL~B~ 315 kbps Gua_DR_DL~A~ 315 kbps Gua_DR_UL~B~
315 kbps
* * *
In this discussion it is assumed that these parameters are also used in the
PGW to monitor that the UEs do not exceed the negotiated bandwidths.
Two trace files of video frame sizes are used to facilitate the discussion on
bitrate variations. The files are described in the Table 6.11.1-3 below and
are shown in Figures 6.11.1-1 and 6.11.1-2.
Table 6.11.1-3: File information
* * *
                                             File 1         File 2
Codec H.264 H.264 Resolution QCIF QCIF Frame rate 30 fps 30 fps Bitrate (incl.
IP, UDP and RTP overhead) 315 kbps 315 kbps Number of frames 2692 2204 Average
frame size 1312.5 bytes 1312.5 bytes Min frame size 595 bytes 1006 bytes Max
frame size 2147 bytes 1771 bytes
* * *
These files do not include any I frames.
{width="5.5881944444444445in" height="3.9340277777777777in"}
Figure 6.11.1-1: Video frame sizes for file 1
{width="5.579861111111111in" height="4.186111111111111in"}
Figure 6.11.1-2: Video frame sizes for file 2
When measuring the used bitrate, e.g. in a policing function, then one need to
average the instantaneous bitrates over some time to create a short-term
average. In this analysis, an averaging window has been used and different
lengths of the averaging window have been tested. The figure below shows a few
examples of how the variations in the short-term bitrate average are reduced
as the length of the averaging window increases.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="2.401388888888889in" | | height="1.9638888888888888in"} | height="1.8736111111111111in"} | | | | | a) No averaging window | b) 0.5 s averaging window | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="2.5215277777777776in" | | height="2.0055555555555555in"} | height="1.9638888888888888in"} | | | | | c) 1 s averaging window | d) 2 s averaging window | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Figure 6.11.1-3: Bitrates for file 1 with different averaging windows
As can be seen in the figure above the variations in the short-term average
are significantly reduced when applying an averaging window, even if the
window is as short as 0.5 seconds. This is however excluding I frames.
Statistics when applying different averaging window lengths are shown in Table
6.11.1-4.
I frames may be generated by the encoder for several reasons, for example
generated at a regular interval to stop error propagation or generated when
the receiver requests a Full Intra Refresh. I frames are usually much larger
than the average frame size, often as large as 5 to 10 times larger. The
effects of I frames on the short-term bitrate average have been analysed by
manually inserting I frames every 15 second in the video trace files. Both I
frames of 5 times and 10 times the average video frame size have been used.
The video trace files were then re-scaled to maintain the 315 kbps average
bitrate (measured over the whole trace file). The averaging windows were then
applied in the same was as above. Table 6.11.1-4 shows the statistics for the
two files when I frames have been added.
Table 6.11.1-4: Bitrate variations after applying averaging window
* * *
File Averaging window length\ Average bitrate\ Maximum bitrate\ Minimum
bitrate\ Max/Avg bitrate Number of frames Number of times short-term average
is >25 % over long-term average Number of times short-term average is >10 %
over long-term average [s] [bps] [bps] [bps]
File 1 - 314999.6 515280 142800 1.64 2692 160 584
File 1 0.17 315003.3 352272 280944 1.12 2687 0 7
File 1 0.33 314987.7 333648 294816 1.06 2682 0 0
File 1 0.50 314980.8 327392 302080 1.04 2677 0 0
File 1 0.67 314980.9 323400 306300 1.03 2672 0 0
File 1 1.00 314986.6 321208 308784 1.02 2662 0 0
File 1 2.00 314990.1 317848 311728 1.01 2632 0 0
File 1, 5x I - 314998.5 1560960 141360 4.96 2692 152 546
File 1, 5x I 0.17 314630.5 597120 278400 1.90 2687 26 27
File 1, 5x I 0.33 314572.4 454608 292248 1.45 2682 51 51
File 1, 5x I 0.50 314554.2 408672 299424 1.30 2677 52 76
File 1, 5x I 0.67 314550.9 382284 303612 1.22 2672 0 101
File 1, 5x I 1.00 314557.6 359416 306016 1.14 2662 0 151
File 1, 5x I 2.00 314580.0 335960 308956 1.07 2632 0 0
File 1, 10x I - 314998.1 3087840 139920 9.80 2692 134 490
File 1, 10x I 0.17 314180.8 899376 275328 2.86 2687 26 26
File 1, 10x I 0.33 314071.4 604056 289032 1.92 2682 51 51
File 1, 10x I 0.50 314039.7 507152 296144 1.61 2677 76 76
File 1, 10x I 0.67 314032.2 455340 300288 1.45 2672 101 101
File 1, 10x I 1.00 314040.1 406968 302696 1.30 2662 151 151
File 1, 10x I 2.00 314085.6 358032 305584 1.14 2632 0 301
File 2 - 315001.4 425040 241440 1.35 2204 5 167
File 2 0.17 315007.9 336240 297888 1.07 2199 0 0
File 2 0.33 315001.6 332328 306528 1.06 2194 0 0
File 2 0.50 315003.6 329104 308784 1.04 2189 0 0
File 2 0.67 315005.7 328092 310044 1.04 2184 0 0
File 2 1.00 315002.1 326824 311672 1.04 2174 0 0
File 2 2.00 314952.8 325616 313084 1.03 2144 0 0
File 2, 5x I - 315001.5 1561200 239040 4.96 2204 8 137
File 2, 5x I 0.17 314554.7 576768 295104 1.83 2199 21 21
File 2, 5x I 0.33 314496.3 450408 303696 1.43 2194 41 41
File 2, 5x I 0.50 314484.4 402384 305984 1.28 2189 57 61
File 2, 5x I 0.67 314482.3 378408 307536 1.20 2184 0 81
File 2, 5x I 1.00 314479.8 356728 308840 1.13 2174 0 121
File 2, 5x I 2.00 314454.1 334512 310232 1.06 2144 0 0
File 2, 10x I - 315001.3 3087600 236400 9.80 2204 7 105
File 2, 10x I 0.17 314005.8 879024 291792 2.80 2199 21 21
File 2, 10x I 0.33 313884.3 599688 300360 1.91 2194 41 41
File 2, 10x I 0.50 313855.6 500752 302576 1.60 2189 61 61
File 2, 10x I 0.67 313848.3 451356 304092 1.44 2184 81 81
File 2, 10x I 1.00 313847.2 404216 305384 1.29 2174 121 121
File 2, 10x I 2.00 313849.9 356512 306780 1.14 2144 0 241
* * *
As can be seen in the table, adding I frames has a large impact on how the
averaged bitrate varies. To get a maximum short-term average (measured over
the averaging window) that is reasonably close to the long-term average
(measured over the whole file) then one need to have a long averaging window,
at least a few seconds long.
Looking at the columns showing how many times the average exceeds 25 % and 10
% over the average one can see that this occurs quite frequently when 5x and
10x I frames are added, even for long averaging windows. If the network would
drop a packet every time this happens then this would increase the packet loss
rate with a few percent, in the worst cases with as much as 10 %.
Another observation is that the frequency of large short-term average actually
seems to increase with increasing window length when large I frames are added.
### 6.11.2 Gap analysis
There is no information in the SDPs (offer or answer) and in the functions and
protocols used in PCC and RAN for resource reservation (GDP, Rx, scheduler,
etc.) about how large bitrate variations the clients want to use. There is
also no information in the SDPs or in the QoS parameters for the bearers that
informs the clients about how large bitrate variations the networks will
allow.
In addition, for the MBR and GBR bitrates in EPC, [11], there is no definition
for how these (average) bitrates should be calculated.
This means that the policing functions in the networks will need to be
configured without knowing what will work for the clients. The clients should
also implement some form of rate smoothing but a problem here is that client
developers do not know how much smoothing that is required by the networks. In
addition, the policing functions in different networks could very well be
configured differently so a rate smoothing that works in one network is not
guaranteed to work in other networks.
## 6.12 Use case K: Several multi-rate speech codecs (AMR, AMR-WB and EVS),
small difference in EVS usage between operators
### 6.12.1 General description
Alice and Bob are setting up a voice-only session. Both UE-A and UE-B support:
the AMR codec (4.75-12.2 kbps, all codec modes); the AMR-WB codec (6.60-23.85
kbps, all codec modes); and the EVS (5.9-128 kbps, all codec modes). Both
operators want to use EVS for super-wideband (SWB), but in slightly different
ways.
Operator A (originating side) wants to ensure SWB quality in the 9.6-24.4 kbps
bitrate range for most operating conditions, while adaptation down to WB or
even NB speech at lower bitrates is allowed but should happen quite rarely.
Operator B (terminating side) wants to use the EVS codec only for SWB and only
with the 13.2 kbps bitrate.
Table 6.12.1-1: SDP offer-answer for use case K
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP offer | +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 101 99 100 97 98 | | | | b=AS:50 | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:98 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:98 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220; octet-align=1 | | | | a=rtpmap:99 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:99 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:100 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:100 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220; octet-align=1 | | | | a=rtpmap:101 EVS/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:101 br=5.9-24.4; bw=nb-swb; mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP answer | +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 101 | | | | b=AS:38 | | | | a=rtpmap:101 EVS/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:101 br=13.2; bw=swb; mode-set=0,1,2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
For the media handling in the UEs, the SDP offer/answer negotiation means:
\- UE-A wants to receive max 50 kbps, based on the b=AS in the SDP offer.
\- UE-A will send max 38 kbps, based on the b=AS in the SDP answer.
\- UE-B wants to receive max 38 kbps, based on the b=AS in the SDP answer.
\- UE-B will send max 50 kbps, based on the b=AS in the SDP offer.
\- There is however no information in the SDPs that can be used to set GBR.
The br parameter for EVS primary mode in the SDP answer indicates that GBR
should be set based on the 13.2 kbps bitrate. However, the mode-set parameter
for EVS AMR-WB IO mode shows that all bitrates down to 6.6 kbps are supported.
When offering EVS, the RTP payload type is used for both EVS primary mode and
EVS AMR-WB IO mode. Since the offer-answer rules are the same for EVS AMR-WB
IO mode as for AMR-WB, an Open Offer is used also for EVS AMR-WB IO mode in
the same way as used for AMR-WB. This means that the bandwidth in the SDP
offer will set such that it allows for AMR-WB 23.85. However, the bandwidth
may also be set to an even higher value if EVS primary modes higher than 24.4
are offered.
### 6.12.2 Gap analysis
As discussed for use case D, see clause 6.5, the PCRFs may allocate MBR and
GBR in several different ways. The downlink MBR in the local access and the
uplink MBR in the remote access can be aligned with a second SDP offer-answer.
However, there are no mechanisms in SDP to align GBR.
In addition, it is not possible to indicate in SDP a desired bitrate range, if
this is different from the allowed bitrate range. So UE-A or Operator A cannot
declare that it primarily wants to use the EVS primary mode with at least 9.6
kbps.
## 6.13 Use case L: Several multi-rate speech codecs (AMR, AMR-WB and EVS),
large difference in EVS usage between operators
### 6.13.1 General description
Alice and Bob are setting up a voice-only session. Both UE-A and UE-B support:
the AMR codec (4.75-12.2 kbps, all codec modes); the AMR-WB codec (6.60-23.85
kbps, all codec modes); and the EVS (5.9-128 kbps, all codec modes). The
operators want to use the EVS codec in different ways.
Operator A (originating side) wants to ensure SWB-FB quality in the 32-64 kbps
bitrate range for most operating conditions, while adaptation down to WB or
even NB speech at lower bitrates is allowed but should happen quite rarely.
The higher bitrate range could, for example, be desirable in conference calls.
Operator B (terminating side) wants to use the EVS codec primarily between WB
and SWB and in the 5.9-13.2 kbps bitrate range.
Table 6.13.1-1: SDP offer-answer for use case L
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **SDP offer** | +-----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 101 99 100 97 98 | | | | b=AS:89 | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:98 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:98 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220; octet-align=1 | | | | a=rtpmap:99 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:99 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:100 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:100 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220; octet-align=1 | | | | a=rtpmap:101 EVS/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:101 br=5.9-64; bw=nb-fb; mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | +-----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **SDP answer** | +-----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 101 | | | | b=AS:38 | | | | a=rtpmap:101 EVS/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:101 br=5.9-13.2; bw=nb-swb; mode-set=0,1,2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | +-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
For the media handling in the UEs, the SDP offer/answer negotiation means:
\- UE-A wants to receive max 89 kbps, based on the b=AS in the SDP offer.
\- UE-A will send max 38 kbps, based on the b=AS in the SDP answer.
\- UE-B wants to receive max 38 kbps, based on the b=AS in the SDP answer.
\- UE-B will send max 89 kbps, based on the b=AS in the SDP offer.
After a second offer-answer negotiation (if performed), it is expected that
the maximum bandwidths become 38 kbps in both directions.
There are no mechanisms in SDP that originating client or Operator A can use
to show to the other network and the terminating client that it really wants
to use a much higher bitrate range (32-64 kbps instead of \GBR bearers, the minimum desired bandwidth may be used to
derive the GBR. The minimum and/or maximum desired bandwidths may be used for
the admission control, e.g. to determine how many users can be admitted in
order to ensure a certain desired quality level.
F It should be possible for the clients to know what bitrate variations are
allowed or how the bitrate average is calculated, e.g. in the policing
functions.
Proposed requirements for the design of new SDP attributes:
G New SDP attribute(s) should allow for future extensions.
H New SDP attribute(s) should be backwards compatible with existing attributes
and offer/answer negotiation process.
I The existing functionality for resource allocation in legacy networks should
not be affected by the introduction of new SDP attributes.
NOTE 4: Since legacy networks are expected to ignore any new SDP attributes,
the UEs cannot assume that all networks in the path use the information
included in the new SDP attributes.
Proposed requirements for the solution design:
J The solution should be generic and reusable for all services, media types
and codecs.
K The solution should allow configuration in clients and/or network nodes to
be able to adapt its usage to different services, media types and codecs.
L The solution should be usable by all networks and end-points.
M The solution should give clear definitions of the new bandwidth information
and procedures on how the information should be used by networks and clients.
## 7.5 Definition of new bandwidth information parameters
### 7.5.1 Overview
This section provides more detailed definitions for the new bandwidth
parameters. It also describes how the parameters should be used at session
setup and during the session. The impacts on media quality are also discussed.
The most commonly used bandwidths are in the range from the Minimum Desired
Bandwidth to the Maximum Desired Bandwidth. The higher end of this range
should preferably be used for most sessions.
Bandwidths below the Minimum Desired Bandwidth, down to the Minimum Supported
Bandwidth, may be used during poor operating conditions, although should
happen rarely. If the Minimum Supported Bandwidth cannot be maintained then
the media may be dropped or the session may be closed.
Bandwidths above the Maximum Desired Bandwidth, up to the Maximum Supported
Bandwidth, can be used to provide room for redundancy so that the media may
survive during very bad operating conditions and when reducing the bandwidth
is unable to provide sufficient quality. This range should be used rarely.
This means that the following relationships apply:
\- Minimum Supported Bandwidth \GBR bearers.
**Usage during the session:**
Bandwidths in the lower end of the Minimum Desired Bandwidth \~ Maximum
Desired Bandwidth should be used less frequently, mainly during periods with
high load and/or degraded operating conditions.
The used bandwidth can be lower than the Minimum Desired Bandwidth, for
example, during DTX periods for speech or when DTMF is being transmitted
instead of speech.
**Quality aspects:**
Using bandwidths in the lower end of this range can give slightly reduced
encoding quality but should not give increased end-to-end delay.
For video, this bandwidth should be selected such that the video is still
relatively smooth.
### 7.5.5 Minimum Supported Bandwidth
**Definition:**
Identifies the lowest bandwidth that may be used in the session during non-
normal operating conditions, primarily when limited by the bitrate.
**Usage during the session:**
Bandwidths below the Minimum Desired Bandwidth, down to the Minimum Supported
Bandwidth, should be used quite rarely, mainly for severely degraded operating
conditions.
If the Minimum Supported Bandwidth cannot be maintained then the session can
be terminated.
The used bandwidth can be lower than the Minimum Supported Bandwidth, for
example, during DTX periods for speech or when DTMF is being transmitted
instead of speech.
**Quality aspects:**
It can be expected that the encoding quality is reduced for these bandwidths
and also that the end-to-end delay is increased.
# 8 Potential solution(s)
## 8.1 Potential solution A: Session re-negotiation
### 8.1.1 Introduction
This solution describes potential new requirements and/or recommendations to
TS 26.114 to clarify when a session re-negotiations should be performed.
In TS 26.114 clause 6.2, many requirements and recommendations are defined for
the original session setup, i.e. for the first SDP offer-answer negotiation.
There are also some requirements and recommendations for session re-
negotiations when adding or removing media during a session. However, there
are quite few requirements or recommendations for session re-negotiation for
aligning the bandwidths to the selected codec. The same applies to the SDP
examples in TS 26.114 Annex A.
### 8.1.2 Description of the solution
The proposed solution is to add requirements and/or recommendations in TS
26.114 clause 6.2 to clarify the conditions when an MTSI client should perform
a session re-negotiation. For example, a re-negotiation may be useful for the
following cases:
\- If the SDP offer included multiple codecs and/or codec configurations
requiring different bandwidths, and if the SDP answer includes a codec
configuration that only needs a lower bandwidth.
\- If the bandwidth in the SDP offer included room for redundancy but the SDP
answer prevented using redundancy in the session.
\- If the bandwidth in the SDP offer was selected to send speech with one
frame per packet but the SDP answer indicated that frame aggregation is
needed.
\- If the original intention was to send media without redundancy (\'max-
red=0\') but the remote end-point wants to receive redundancy and indicates
this by sending an SDP answer with a bandwidth that is higher than what is
needed for the codec.
Whether a re-negotiation is performed or not may also depend on whether the
intention is to set up a symmetric or asymmetric session.
A few SDP examples may also be added in TS 26.114 Annex A to describe both the
original negotiation and the re-negotiation.
The list above indicates only a few examples. More examples can be added later
during the normative work.
In TS 26.114, clause 6.2.7, the following is defined:
> \"If the MTSI client in terminal determines that the b=AS bandwidth(s) are
> not aligned with the MBR and the receiving capabilities of the MTSI client,
> then it should align the media-level b=AS bandwidth(s) to the MBR and its
> receiving capabilities by sending to the other party an SDP offer with the
> new b=AS bandwidth value(s). In the process of this alignment it is also
> likely that the session-level b=AS bandwidth needs to be updated. In
> addition, the MTSI client in terminal may modify other parts of the SDP,
> e.g. to replace the codecs or adjust codec parameters (such as the AMR or
> AMR-WB mode-set).\"
This describes when a session re-negotiation should be performed to align the
b=AS bandwidth with the downlink MBR. If new bandwidth modifiers or attributes
are defined then it is likely that the above text may need to be updated
accordingly. The modifications that are needed however depend on the chosen
solution(s). The detailed modifications can therefore not be described at this
point in time.
### 8.1.3 Compliance with proposed requirements
The above solution fulfils the requirement C on making the networks aware of
the maximum supported bandwidth but only for the receiving direction of each
end-point. This solution cannot itself fulfil the corresponding requirements
for the sending direction because there are no bandwidth modifiers or
attributes defined in SDP for this purpose. For the same reason, this solution
can also not fulfil the requirement E on making the networks aware of the
minimum supported or desired bandwidths, neither for the sending nor for the
receiving direction. However, if combined with any of the proposed solution B
to G, those requirements can also be addressed.
### 8.1.4 Impact on networks and terminals
The mechanisms needed to perform a session re-negotiation are supported
already today. It is therefore expected that this solution have no impact on
the architecture and the interfaces in the networks, for example for the PCC.
It is however expected that UEs and MGWs (and possibly some other nodes) use
some form of decision logic to determine when a session re-negotiation should
be performed. This decision logic may need to be updated.
TS 26.114 clause 6.2 targets terminals and MGWs, which means that updates to
this clause would impact these nodes. Updates to TS 26.114 clause 6.2.7 should
however not impact MGWs since they are not expected to have any knowledge
about the QoS parameters for the bearers and would therefore not try to align
any SDP information and any QoS parameters.
## 8.2 Potential solution B: New bandwidth modifiers in SDP offer and answer
without SDP MiscCapNeg
### 8.2.1 Introduction
This solution describes how the clients can make the networks aware and each
other of the negotiated maximum supported bandwidth, the minimum supported
bandwidth, the maximum desired bandwidth and the minimum desired bandwidth for
each direction by defining new bandwidth modifiers to carry the new bandwidth
information.
### 8.2.2 Description of the solution
#### 8.2.2.1 General solution
The general solution is to add information in the SDPs about the maximum
supported bandwidth, minimum supported bandwidth, maximum desired bandwidth
and the minimum desired bandwidth, for sending and receiving directions,
respectively. The clients would negotiate these bandwidths in the same way as
they negotiate other configuration parameters. The networks would use these
bandwidths in the session setup and session re-negotiations, both for the
admission control and for resource reservation.
#### 8.2.2.2 New bandwidth modifiers
The following new bandwidth modifiers are needed:
\- b=AS_max_des_recv:\ \- maximum desired bandwidth in receiving
direction
\- b=AS_max_des_send:\ \- maximum desired bandwidth in sending
direction
\- b=AS_min_des_recv:\ \- minimum desired bandwidth in receiving
direction
\- b=AS_min_des_send:\ \- minimum desired bandwidth in sending
direction
\- b=AS_max_sup_recv:\ \- maximum supported bandwidth in receiving
direction (same as b=AS)
\- b=AS_max_sup_send:\ \- maximum supported bandwidth in sending
direction
\- b=AS_min_sup_recv:\ \- minimum supported bandwidth in receiving
direction
\- b=AS_min_sup_send:\ \- minimum supported bandwidth in sending
direction
The names of the new bandwidth modifiers can of course be changed.
One limitation with defining new bandwidth modifiers is the syntax for
bandwidth modifiers defined in SDP [8]:
> b=\:\
This syntax prevents defining different bandwidths for different RTP payload
types, which could be solved by using SDP miscellaneous capability negotiation
(SDPMiscCapNeg) [14]. Such a solution is described in clause 8.3.
The bandwidth value is expressed in kbps since this is the default unit for
bandwidth modifiers, which is also used for the b=AS value.
#### 8.2.2.3 Procedures
The SDP offer can contain several RTP payload types corresponding to different
codecs and configurations, where the different configurations have different
bandwidth needs. The originating client includes the maximum values required
for any of the offered codec and configurations as bandwidth information.
NOTE: According to the general semantics of bandwidth modifiers in IETF RFC
4566, they relate to the entire m-line. With only one set of new bandwidth
modifiers it is not possible to identify the bandwidth needs for each offered
codec and configuration.
The answerer selects a codec and configuration which complies with the
received bandwidth information within the SDP offer (i.e. the required
bandwidth is equal or below the received information for each type of
bandwidth information). In the SDP answer, the answerer provides bandwidth
information for both the send and receive direction for the media line that
matches the needs of the codec and configuration it selects. The answerer
provides bandwidth information which is equal or below the corresponding
received bandwidth information within the SDP offer for the maximum supported,
maximum desired and minimum desired bandwidths.
#### 8.2.2.4 Session negotiation example
An example of how the new bandwidth modifiers can be used in the session
negotiation is shown below. This example is based on Use case E where both
AMR-WB and AMR are offered but where AMR is negotiated, see clause 6.6 and
Table 6.6.1-1. A difference from Use case E is that the offer allows for using
100% redundancy even when the highest codec mode is used.
The new bandwidth modifiers are highlighted with bold font.
NOTE: The numerical values in those examples have not been carefully checked
and can contain errors.
Table 8.2.2.4-1: SDP offer-answer for proposed solution B with new bandwidth
modifiers
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP offer | +-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 100 99 98 97 | | | | b=AS:73 | | | | **b=AS_max_des_recv:49** | | | | **b=AS_max_des_send:49** | | | | **b=AS_min_des_recv:34** | | | | **b=AS_min_des_send:34** | | | | **b=AS_max_sup_recv:73** | | | | **b=AS_max_sup_send:73** | | | | **b=AS_min_sup_recv:13** | | | | **b=AS_min_sup_send:13** | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:98 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:98 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220; octet-align=1 | | | | a=rtpmap:99 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:99 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:100 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:100 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220; octet-align=1 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | +-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP answer | +-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 97 | | | | b=AS:50 | | | | **b=AS_max_des_recv:37** | | | | **b=AS_max_des_send:37** | | | | **b=AS_min_des_recv:31** | | | | **b=AS_min_des_send:31** | | | | **b=AS_max_sup_recv:50** | | | | **b=AS_max_sup_send:50** | | | | **b=AS_min_sup_recv:12** | | | | **b=AS_min_sup_send:12** | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | +-----------------------------------------------------------------+
The bandwidth value for the b=AS parameter in the SDP offer is derived using
existing rules, which in this case means using RTP payload type 99, i.e. AMR-
WB, max 23.85 kbps and octet-aligned payload format. No extra bandwidth is
allocated for redundancy.
In this case, a symmetric session is assumed. The new bandwidth values are
therefore the same for the sending and receiving directions.
The values for new bandwidth modifiers shown in the SDP offer are derived for
the most preferred configuration (100), i.e. AMR-WB, 23.85 kbps and bandwidth-
efficient payload format:
\- b=AS_max_des_recv:49 - AMR-WB 23.85 kbps with no redundancy
\- b=AS_max_des_send:49 - AMR-WB 23.85 kbps with no redundancy
\- b=AS_min_des_recv:34 - AMR-WB 8.85 kbps with no redundancy
\- b=AS_min_des_send:34 - AMR-WB 8.85 kbps with no redundancy
\- b=AS_max_sup_recv:73 - AMR-WB 23.85 kbps with 100% redundancy, note that
this is different from the b=AS value
\- b=AS_max_sup_send:73 - AMR-WB 23.85 kbps with 100% redundancy
\- b=AS_min_sup_recv:13 - AMR-WB 6.60 kbps with no redundancy, 4 frames per
packet
\- b=AS_min_sup_send:13 - AMR-WB 6.60 kbps with no redundancy, 4 frames per
packet
The bandwidth value for the b=AS parameter in the SDP answer is also derived
using existing rules, which in this case means using RTP payload type 97, i.e.
AMR, max 123.2 kbps and bandwidth-efficient payload format. No extra bandwidth
is allocated for redundancy.
The values for new bandwidth modifiers shown in the SDP answer are derived
from the selected configuration, i.e. AMR, max 12.2 kbps, bandwidth-efficient
payload format:
\- b=AS_max_des_recv:37 - AMR 12.2 kbps with no redundancy
\- b=AS_max_des_send:37 - AMR 12.2 kbps with no redundancy
\- b=AS_min_des_recv:31 - AMR 5.9 kbps with no redundancy
\- b=AS_min_des_send:31 - AMR 5.9 kbps with no redundancy
\- b=AS_max_sup_recv:50 - AMR 12.2 kbps with 100% redundancy, note that this
is different from the b=AS value
\- b=AS_max_sup_send:50 - AMR 12.2 kbps with 100% redundancy
\- b=AS_min_sup_recv:12 - AMR 4.75 kbps with no redundancy, 4 frames per
packet
\- b=AS_min_sup_send:12 - AMR 4.75 kbps with no redundancy, 4 frames per
packet
If the originating client accepts the bandwidths proposed by the terminating
client then no further SDP offer-answer negotiations are needed, at least not
for the reason of negotiating the bandwidths. However, since the terminating
client selected a configuration that was not the most preferred by the
originating client, it can happen that the originating client is not fully
satisfied with the proposed bandwidths shown in the SDP answer. In this case,
the originating client would need to send a SIP update to initiate a new SDP
offer-answer negotiation.
In the worst case, one may even need several additional offer-answer
negotiations to conclude on the configuration to use for the session. This
would however increase the session setup time, add load on the SIP bearer and
also add load to the SIP servers, which is undesirable.
#### 8.2.2.5 Modifying the bandwidth information in the SDP offer
In the SDP offer, the first node can decrease the maximum supported, maximum
desired and minimum desired bandwidth according to network policies. However,
the first node does normally not increase the maximum supported and maximum
desired and minimum desired bandwidth except when required to correct
undesired or erroneous UE behavior, when adding codecs accessible via
transcoding, or for IPv4/IPv6 transport interworking. The first node can
increase the minimum supported bandwidth according to network policies.
However, the first node does normally not decrease the minimum supported
bandwidth except when required to correct UE misbehavior, when removing
offered codecs, or for IPv4/IPv6 transport interworking.
In the SDP offer, subsequent nodes can decrease the maximum supported, maximum
desired and minimum desired bandwidth according to network policies. However,
they are supposed to not increase the maximum supported and maximum desired
and minimum desired bandwidth except when adding codecs accessible via
transcoding, or for IPv4/IPv6 transport interworking. They can increase the
minimum supported bandwidth according to network policies. However, they are
supposed to not decrease the minimum supported bandwidth except when removing
offered codecs, or for IPv4/IPv6 transport interworking.
The following relationships are maintained by any network node when modifying
bandwidths:
Minimum Supported Bandwidth \GBR bearers can decrease the Minimum Desired Bandwidth.\ An
operator desiring to limit the GBR for MBR=GBR bearers can decrease the
Maximum Supported Bandwidth.
In the SDP answer, the first node does normally not modify the bandwidth
values except when required to correct UE misbehavior, when replacing the
selected codec and configuration in the SDP answer due to transcoding, or due
to IPv4/IPv6 transport interworking. Subsequent node also are supposed to not
modify the bandwidth values except when replacing the selected codec and
configuration in the SDP answer due to transcoding, or due to IPv4/IPv6
transport interworking.
NOTE 2: To update the terminating client, the originating client would need to
send a SIP UPDATE including the new bandwidth information. However, the
originating client does not know if the bandwidth information in the SDP
answer came from the terminating client or if the network changed this
information, so it does not know that a SIP UPDATE would be needed.
Networks also have the possibility to reject the SDPs if the indicated
bandwidths are unreasonable, as can be done already today.
#### 8.2.2.6 Resource reservation in different networks
Since the bandwidth information in both directions is included in the SDP
answer, all networks in the path have the same information and can use this
instead of proprietary codec-specific algorithms both for the admission
control and for resource reservation. Thereby, it is possible to align QoS
end-to-end.
It should be noted that this does not prevent using operator policies, even if
the operator policies would use different bandwidths than indicated in the SDP
offer. However, in this case, it would be beneficial to modify the SDP offer
before forwarding it to the next network so that the bandwidth information in
the SDP offer is aligned with the selected QoS parameters.
### 8.2.3 Compliance with proposed requirements
The described proposed solution addresses the proposed requirements A to E.
However, those requirements are only partially met, as the bandwidth
information is provided per media component, rather than per codec and
configuration. The proposed solution is compliant with the solution design
requirements J to M. SDP attribute related requirements G to I are not
applicable to this solution.
### 8.2.4 Impact on networks and terminals
Adding new information in SDP means that terminals and networks would need to
support the new SDP parameters in order to make the solution useful.
For the networks, the AF (P-CSCF) would need to extract the new information
from the SDP answerer and provide corresponding session information to the
PCRF. Compared to the existing procedures, the AF or PCRF would no longer have
to use information in the SDP offer to derive bandwidth for resource
reservation purposes, but would have to extract more bandwidth information
from the SDP answer. The PCRF would no longer need to use a codec-specific
algorithm. The related detailed impacts on the Rx interface and AF and PCRF
procedures will be determined by CT3 during their normative work. The PCRF
would then use the session information to set the QoS parameters on the Gx
interface. The QoS parameters that are used on the Gx interface are the same
as in the existing specifications. This means that there is no need to change
the PCEF, the RAN or the interfaces to these nodes.
Nodes in the network applying existing policies to modify SDP offer for
transcoding purposes would need to be updated to adjust the new bandwidth
information accordingly.
Transcoding nodes within the network would need to be updated to take into
account the new bandwidth information when encoding media. The new bandwidth
information would need to be provided to the IMS-AGW, TrGW and MRFP via the Iq
interface, Ix interface and Mp interfaces, respectively.
Adding new SDP parameters also gives automatic fallback to the legacy solution
whenever the new SDP parameters are not supported. This ensures backwards
compatibility as long as the SDP still contains the old information, i.e. the
b=AS bandwidth modifier.
## 8.3 Potential solution C: New bandwidth modifiers and SDPMiscCapNeg in SDP
offer and answer
### 8.3.1 Introduction
In this solution, the new bandwidth modifiers from solution B are used
together with SDP Miscellaneous Capability Negotiation (SDPMiscCapNeg) [14] to
be able to identify different bandwidth for different RTP payload types in the
SDP offer.
### 8.3.2 Description of the solution
#### 8.3.2.1 General solution
The general solution is to add information in the SDPs about the maximum
supported bandwidth, minimum supported bandwidth, maximum desired bandwidth
and the minimum desired bandwidth, for sending and receiving directions,
respectively, by defining a SDP bandwidth modifier to carry the new bandwidth
information. SDP Miscellaneous Capability Negotiation (SDPMiscCapNeg) [14] is
used to identify different bandwidth modifiers for different RTP payload
types. The clients would negotiate these bandwidths in the same way as they
negotiate other configuration parameters. The networks would use these
bandwidths in the session setup and session re-negotiations, both for the
admission control and for resource reservation.
#### 8.3.2.2 Procedures
The SDP offer can contain several RTP payload types corresponding to different
codecs and configurations, where the different configurations have different
bandwidth needs. The originating client includes bandwidth values required for
each of the offered codec and configurations as bandwidth information, using
separate SDP capneg configuration with the new SDP bandwidth modifiers
encapsulated in SDP \"a=bcap\" attributes.
The answerer selects a codec and configuration. In the SDP answer, the
answerer provides bandwidth information for both the send and receive
direction for the codec and configuration it selects. The answerer provides
bandwidth information which is equal or below the corresponding received
bandwidth information within the SDP offer for maximum values and for the
minimum desired value, and which is equal or higher for the minimum supported
value.
#### 8.3.2.3 Session negotiation example
The new bandwidth modifiers and the new attributes for SDPMiscCapNeg are
highlighted with bold font. The new bandwidth modifiers are included here in
the same way as shown in solution B. This is to ensure compatibility with
clients that do not support SPDMiscCapNeg, but it may not always be possible
to do this.
NOTE: The numerical values in those examples have not been carefully checked
and can contain errors.
Table 8.3.2.3-1: SDP offer-answer for proposed solution C with new bandwidth
modifiers
+--------------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP offer | +--------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **a=csup:cap-v0,med-v0,bcap-v0** | | | | m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 100 99 98 97 | | | | b=AS:73 | | | | **b=AS_max_des_recv:49** | | | | **b=AS_max_des_send:49** | | | | **b=AS_min_des_recv:34** | | | | **b=AS_min_des_send:34** | | | | **b=AS_max_sup_recv:73** | | | | **b=AS_max_sup_send:73** | | | | **b=AS_min_sup_recv:13** | | | | **b=AS_min_sup_send:13** | | | | **// AMR, bandwidth-efficient** | | | | **a=bcap:3 AS:50** | | | | **a=bcap:31 AS_max_des_recv:37** | | | | **a=bcap:32 AS_max_des_send:37** | | | | **a=bcap:33 AS_min_des_recv:31** | | | | **a=bcap:34 AS_min_des_send:31** | | | | **a=bcap:35 AS_max_sup_recv:50** | | | | **a=bcap:36 AS_max_sup_send:50** | | | | **a=bcap:37 AS_min_sup_recv:12** | | | | **a=bcap:38 AS_min_sup_send:12** | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | **a=rmcap:3 AMR/8000/1** | | | | **a=mfcap:3 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220** | | | | **// AMR, octet-aligned** | | | | **a=bcap:4 AS:50** | | | | **a=bcap:41 AS_max_des_recv:38** | | | | **a=bcap:42 AS_max_des_send:38** | | | | **a=bcap:43 AS_min_des_recv:31** | | | | **a=bcap:44 AS_min_des_send:31** | | | | **a=bcap:45 AS_max_sup_recv:50** | | | | **a=bcap:46 AS_max_sup_send:50** | | | | **a=bcap:47 AS_min_sup_recv:12** | | | | **a=bcap:48 AS_min_sup_send:12** | | | | a=rtpmap:98 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:98 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220; octet-align=1 | | | | **a=rmcap:4 AMR/8000/1** | | | | **a=mfcap:4 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220; octet-align=1** | | | | **// AMR-WB, bandwidth-efficient** | | | | **a=bcap:1 AS:73** | | | | **a=bcap:11 AS_max_des_recv:49** | | | | **a=bcap:12 AS_max_des_send:49** | | | | **a=bcap:13 AS_min_des_recv:34** | | | | **a=bcap:14 AS_min_des_send:34** | | | | **a=bcap:15 AS_max_sup_recv:73** | | | | **a=bcap:16 AS_max_sup_send:73** | | | | **a=bcap:17 AS_min_sup_recv:13** | | | | **a=bcap:18 AS_min_sup_send:13** | | | | a=rtpmap:99 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:99 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | **a=rmcap:1 AMR-WB/16000/1** | | | | **a=mfcap:1 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220** | | | | **// AMR-WB, octet-aligned** | | | | **a=bcap:2 AS:74** | | | | **a=bcap:21 AS_max_des_recv:49** | | | | **a=bcap:22 AS_max_des_send:49** | | | | **a=bcap:23 AS_min_des_recv:34** | | | | **a=bcap:24 AS_min_des_send:34** | | | | **a=bcap:25 AS_max_sup_recv:74** | | | | **a=bcap:26 AS_max_sup_send:74** | | | | **a=bcap:27 AS_min_sup_recv:14** | | | | **a=bcap:28 AS_min_sup_send:14** | | | | a=rtpmap:100 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:100 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220; octet-align=1 | | | | **a=rmcap:2 AMR-WB/16000/1** | | | | **a=mfcap:2 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220; octet-align=1** | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | | | | **a=pcfg:1 m=1 a=-m b=1,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18 pt=1:99** | | | | **a=pcfg:2 m=2 a=-m b=2,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28 pt=2:100** | | | | **a=pcfg:3 m=3 a=-m b=3,31,32,33,34,35,36,37,38 pt=3:97** | | | | **a=pcfg:4 m=4 a=-m b=4,41,42,43,44,45,46,47,48 pt=4:98** | +--------------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP answer | +--------------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 97 | | | | b=AS:50 | | | | **b=AS_max_des_recv:37** | | | | **b=AS_max_des_send:37** | | | | **b=AS_min_des_recv:31** | | | | **b=AS_min_des_send:31** | | | | **b=AS_max_sup_recv:50** | | | | **b=AS_max_sup_send:50** | | | | **b=AS_min_sup_recv:12** | | | | **b=AS_min_sup_send:12** | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | | | | **a=acfg:1 m=1 b=3,31,32,33,34,35,36,37,38 pt=1:97** | +--------------------------------------------------------------------+
The new bandwidth information is derived in the same way as done for solution
B.
#### 8.3.2.4 Modifying the bandwidth information in the SDP offer
Networks nodes in the path have the possibilities to modify the new bandwidth
information in the SDP offer for each codec and configuration in the following
manner:
\- The first node can decrease the maximum supported, maximum desired and
minimum desired bandwidth according to network policies. However, the first
node does normally not increase the maximum supported, maximum desired and
minimum desired bandwidth except when required to correct undesired or
erroneous UE behavior, or for IPv4/IPv6 transport interworking.
\- The first node can increase the minimum supported bandwidth according to
network policies. However, the first node does normally not decrease the
minimum supported bandwidth except when required to correct UE misbehavior, or
for IPv4/IPv6 transport interworking.
\- Subsequent nodes can decrease the maximum supported, maximum desired and
minimum desired bandwidths and increase the minimum supported bandwidth, but
are supposed to not increase the maximum supported, maximum desired and
minimum desired bandwidths, nor to decrease the minimum supported bandwidth
except when required due to IPv4/IPv6 transport interworking.
\- Networks nodes may remove an unwanted codec or configuration together with
all related bandwidth information.
\- Networks nodes may add codecs or configurations accessible via transcoding
together with all related bandwidth information.
\- If a network node desires to use a MBR=GBR bearer, it preferably decreases
maximum supported bandwidth down to the maximum desired bandwidth in the SDP
offer.
\- The following relationships are maintained by any network node when
modifying bandwidths:
Minimum Supported Bandwidth \GBR bearers can decrease the Minimum Desired Bandwidth.\ An
operator desiring to limit the GBR for MBR=GBR bearers can decrease the
Maximum Supported Bandwidth.
In the SDP answer, the first node does normally not modify the bandwidth
values except when required to correct UE misbehavior, when replacing the
selected codec and configuration in the SDP answer due to transcoding, or due
to IPv4/IPv6 transport interworking. Subsequent node also are supposed to not
modify the bandwidth values except when replacing the selected codec and
configuration in the SDP answer due to transcoding, or due to IPv4/IPv6
transport interworking.
#### 8.3.2.5 Resource reservation in different networks
Since the bandwidth information for both directions is included in the SDP
answer, all networks in the path have the same information and can use this
instead of proprietary codec-specific algorithms both for the admission
control and for resource reservation. Thereby, it is possible to align QoS
end-to-end.
It should be noted that this does not prevent using operator policies, even if
the operator policies would use different bandwidths than indicated in the SDP
offer. However, in this case, it would be beneficial to modify the SDP offer
before forwarding it to the next network so that the bandwidth information in
the SDP offer is aligned with the selected QoS parameters.
### 8.3.3 Compliance with proposed requirements
The described proposed solution solves the proposed requirements A to E. The
proposed solution is compliant with the solution design requirements J to M.
SDP attribute related requirements G to I are not applicable to this solution.
### 8.3.4 Impact on networks and terminals
The impacts on networks and terminals are the same as for solution B. In
additions, networks and terminals need to implement SDPMiscCapNeg, which also
mean that they need to implement SDPCapNeg [13] and SDPMediaCapNeg [15].
## 8.4 Potential solution D: New attribute for bandwidth information in SDP
offer and answer for each RTP payload type
### 8.4.1 Introduction
This solution describes how the clients can make the networks aware of the
negotiated maximum supported bandwidth, the minimum supported bandwidth, the
maximum desired bandwidth and the minimum desired bandwidth for each direction
by defining a new attribute to carry the new bandwidth information.
### 8.4.2 Description of the solution
#### 8.4.2.1 General solution
The general solution is to add information in the SDPs about the maximum
supported bandwidth, minimum supported bandwidth, maximum desired bandwidth
and the minimum desired bandwidth, for sending and receiving directions,
respectively. The clients would negotiate these bandwidths in the same way as
they negotiate other configuration parameters. The networks would use these
bandwidths in the session setup and session re-negotiations, both for the
admission control and for resource reservation.
#### 8.4.2.2 New attribute
The syntax for the new SDP attribute can be defined in several ways. One
example is shown below:
> a=bw:\ send=\,\,\,\;
> recv=\,\,\,\
where:
> The attribute can be used either on media level or on session level.
>
> \ identifies the RTP payload type(s) for which the current
> bandwidth declaration applies,
\- A wild card (\'*\') can be used to make the bandwidth definition apply to
all RTP payload types for the given media scope or for the entire session
\- pt-list can be a comma-separated list of RTP payload type numbers, i.e.
a=bw:96,97,105 ...
\- pt-list can also include be a range RTP payload type numbers, i.e.
a=bw:96-99 ...
\- pt-list can even include a combination of individual RTP payload type
number(s) and range(s), i.e. a=bw:96-99,105,107-110 ...
> send or recv defines the direction for which the bandwidth declaration
> applies
>
> \,\,\,\ is the bandwidth declaration for the given
> direction, containing the maximum supported bandwidth, maximum desired
> bandwidth, minimum desired bandwidth and the minimum supported bandwidth.
This is probably the simplest possible syntax to support signalling the
bandwidth information identified in this study.
A benefit with defining a new SDP attribute is that the syntax can be defined
in whatever way needed (for instance, compare with the syntax in proposed
solution F that could also be used here if a payload type is added). The
syntax can also be defined to allow for future extensions, even though this is
not shown in the definition above.
NOTE 1: Using \'bw\' for the new bandwidth information can be confusing since
the EVS codec uses the same name for the codec parameter that identifies the
audio bandwidth. If this solution is selected then a different name should be
used.
NOTE 2: This clause gives only a brief description for the proposed new SDP
attribute. If this solution is selected then further details on the encoding
need to be defined.
NOTE 3: An alternative encoding of the new attribute is presented in clause
8.6.2.2.
#### 8.4.2.3 Procedures
The SDP offer can contain several RTP payload types corresponding to different
codecs and configurations, where the different configurations have different
bandwidth needs. The originating client includes bandwidth values required for
each of the offered codec and configurations as bandwidth information, using a
separate instance of the a=bw attribute for each RTP payload type.
The answerer selects a codec and configuration. In the SDP answer, the
answerer provides bandwidth information for both the send and receive
direction for the codec and configuration it selects. The answerer provides
bandwidth information which is equal or below the corresponding received
bandwidth information within the SDP offer for maximum values and for the
minimum desired value, and which is equal or higher for the minimum supported
value.
#### 8.4.2.4 Session negotiation example
An example of how the new attribute can be used in the session negotiation is
shown below. This example is based on Use case E where both AMR-WB and AMR are
offered but where AMR is negotiated, see clause 6.6 and Table 6.6.1-1. A
difference from Use case E is that the offer allows for using 100% redundancy
even when the highest codec mode is used.
The SDP offer contains several RTP payload types corresponding to different
codecs and configurations, where the different configurations have different
bandwidth needs. With a new attribute it is possible to identify the bandwidth
needs for each configuration.
The new attribute lines are highlighted with bold font.
NOTE: The numerical values in those examples have not been carefully checked
and can contain errors.
Table 8.4.2.4-1: SDP offer-answer for proposed solution D with new bandwidth
modifiers
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP offer | +-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 100 99 98 97 | | | | b=AS:49 | | | | **a=bw:97 send=50,37,31,12 recv=50,37,31,12** | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | **a=bw:98 send=50,38,31,12 recv=50,38,31,12** | | | | a=rtpmap:98 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:98 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220; octet-align=1 | | | | **a=bw:99 send=73,49,34,13 recv=73,49,34,13** | | | | a=rtpmap:99 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:99 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | **a=bw:100 send=74,49,34,14 recv=74,49,34,14** | | | | a=rtpmap:100 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:100 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220; octet-align=1 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | +-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP answer | +-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 97 | | | | b=AS:37 | | | | **a=bw:* send=50,37,31,12 recv=50,37,31,12** | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | +-----------------------------------------------------------------+
The new bandwidth information is derived in the same way as done for solution
C.
A wildcard (*) is used in the SDP answer to indicate that the bandwidth
information applies to the entire media. In this case, there is no need to use
SDPMiscCapNeg to indicate different bandwidths for different payload types.
#### 8.4.2.5 Modifying the bandwidth information in the SDP offer
Networks in the path have the same possibilities to modify the new bandwidth
information as possible with solution C.
#### 8.4.2.6 Resource reservation in different networks
Same as for solution C.
### 8.4.3 Compliance with proposed requirements
The described proposed solution solves the proposed requirements A to E. The
proposed solution is compliant with the solution design requirements J to M
and the SDP attribute related requirements G to I.
### 8.4.4 Impact on networks and terminals
Same as for solution B.
## 8.5 Potential solution E: New bandwidth modifiers only in SDP answer
### 8.5.1 Introduction
A variant of proposed solution B is to only include the new bandwidth
modifiers in the SDP answer, since this shows what codec and configuration
that has been negotiated, but not to include anything new in the SDP offer.
### 8.5.2 Description of the solution
#### 8.5.2.1 General solution
This solution describes how the answering client can make the networks aware
of the maximum supported bandwidth, the minimum supported bandwidth, the
maximum desired bandwidth and the minimum desired bandwidth for the negotiated
codec and configuration for each direction by defining new bandwidth modifiers
to carry the new bandwidth information. The new bandwidth modifiers are only
included in the SDP answer.
The reason for including the new bandwidth information only in the SDP answer
is that it shows which codec and configuration that has been negotiated.
#### 8.5.2.2 New bandwidth modifiers
Same as for solution B, see clause 8.2.2.2, except that it is only allowed to
use the new bandwidth modifiers in the SDP answer.
#### 8.5.2.3 Session negotiation example
The conditions for this example are the same as used for solution B
NOTE: The numerical values in those examples have not been carefully checked
and can contain errors.
Table 8.5.2.3-1: SDP offer-answer for proposed solution E with new bandwidth
modifiers only in the SDP answer
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP offer | +-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 100 99 98 97 | | | | b=AS:49 | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:98 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:98 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220; octet-align=1 | | | | a=rtpmap:99 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:99 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:100 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:100 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220; octet-align=1 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | +-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP answer | +-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 97 | | | | b=AS:37 | | | | **b=AS_max_des_recv:37** | | | | **b=AS_max_des_send:37** | | | | **b=AS_min_des_recv:31** | | | | **b=AS_min_des_send:31** | | | | **b=AS_max_sup_recv:50** | | | | **b=AS_max_sup_send:50** | | | | **b=AS_min_sup_recv:12** | | | | **b=AS_min_sup_send:12** | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | +-----------------------------------------------------------------+
The new bandwidth information is derived in the same way as done for solution
B but only for the codec and configuration included in the SDP answer.
#### 8.5.2.4 Modifying the bandwidth information in the SDP offer
Since the SDP offer does not include the new bandwidth information it becomes
impossible for the networks to modify this information.
#### 8.5.2.5 Resource reservation in different networks
Since the bandwidth information for both directions is included in the SDP
answer, all networks in the path have the same information and can use this
instead of proprietary codec-specific algorithms both for the admission
control and for resource reservation. Thereby, it is possible to align QoS
end-to-end.
### 8.5.3 Compliance with proposed requirements
This solution fulfils the proposed requirements C to E. However, it does not
fulfil the proposed requirements A and B. The proposed solution is compliant
with the solution design requirements J to M. SDP attribute related
requirements G to I are not applicable to this solution.
### 8.5.4 Impact on networks and terminals
The implementation impacts on networks and terminals are the virtually same as
for solution B.
## 8.6 Potential solution F: New SDP attribute in SDP offer and answer for
entire media line
### 8.6.1 Introduction
A variant of proposed solution D is to only include the new bandwidth
modifiers SDP attribute not for each RTP payload type but the entire media
line.
### 8.6.2 Description of the solution
#### 8.6.2.1 General solution
This solution describes how the offering client proposes bandwidth
requirements for the entire media line. The network can modify the bandwidth
information in the SDP offer according to its policies for the media type. The
answering client takes this information into account in the codec selection
and makes the networks and offerer aware of the maximum supported bandwidth,
the minimum supported bandwidth, the maximum desired bandwidth and the minimum
supported bandwidth for the negotiated codec and configuration for each
direction. A new SDP attribute is defined to carry the new bandwidth
information.
#### 8.6.2.2 New SDP attribute
a=bwinfo:\ \*(,\ \)
\=mss/mds/iss/ids/msr/mdr/isr/idr/\
where:
\ can be one of mss/mds/iss/ids/msr/mdr/isr/idr and identifies the type
of the bandwidth. The defined types are maximum supported bandwidth in send
direction (\"mss\"), maximum desired bandwidth in send direction (\"mds\"),
minimum supported bandwidth in send direction (\"iss\"), minimum desired
bandwidth in send direction (\"ids\"), maximum supported bandwidth in receive
direction (\"msr\"), maximum desired bandwidth in receive direction (\"mdr\"),
minimum supported bandwidth in receive direction (\"isr\"), minimum desired
bandwidth in receive direction (\"idr\"). More types may be defined in the
future and unknown types are ignored.
\ is an integer denoting the applicable bandwidth value for a bandwidth
type in kilobytes/sec.
#### 8.6.2.3 Procedures
The SDP offer can contain several RTP payload types corresponding to different
codecs and configurations, where the different configurations have different
bandwidth needs. The originating client includes the maximum values required
for any of the offered codec and configurations as bandwidth information.
The answerer selects a codec and configuration which complies with the
received bandwidth information within the SDP offer (i.e. the required
bandwidth is equal or below the received information for each type of
bandwidth information). In the SDP answer, the answerer provides bandwidth
information for both the send and receive direction for the media line that
matches the needs of the codec and configuration it selects. The answerer
provides bandwidth information which is equal or below the corresponding
received bandwidth information within the SDP offer for maximum values and for
the minimum desired value, and which is equal or higher for the minimum
supported value.
#### 8.6.2.4 Session negotiation example
The conditions for this example are the same as used for solution B.
NOTE: The numerical values in those examples have not been carefully checked
and can contain errors.
Table 8.6.2.4-1: SDP offer-answer for proposed solution F with new SDP
attribute only in the SDP answer
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP offer | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | c= | | | | m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 100 99 98 97 | | | | b=AS:74 | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:98 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:98 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220; octet-align=1 | | | | a=rtpmap:99 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:99 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:100 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:100 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220; octet-align=1 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | | | | **a=bwinfo:mss 73,mds 49,iss 13,ids 34,msr 73,mdr 49,isr 13,idr 34** | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP answer | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 97 | | | | b=AS:52 | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | | | | **a=bwinfo:mss 52,mds 31,iss 12,ids 31,msr 52,mdr 31,isr 12,idr 31** | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.6.2.5 Modifying the bandwidth information in the SDP offer
Networks in the path have the same possibilities to modify the new bandwidth
information as possible with solution B.
#### 8.6.2.6 Resource reservation in different networks
Since the bandwidth information for both directions is included in the SDP
answer, all networks in the path have the same information and can use this
instead of proprietary codec-specific algorithms for resource reservation.
Thereby, it is possible to align QoS end-to-end.
### 8.6.3 Compliance with proposed requirements
The described proposed solution addresses the proposed requirements A to E.
However, those requirements are only partially met, as the bandwidth
information is provided per media component, rather than per codec and
configuration. The proposed solution is compliant with the solution design
requirements J to M and the SDP attribute related requirements G to I.
### 8.6.4 Impact on networks and terminals
Adding new information in SDP means that terminals and networks would need to
support the new SDP parameters in order to make the solution useful.
For the networks, the AF (P-CSCF) would need to extract the new information
from the SDP answers and provide corresponding session information to the
PCRF. Compared to the existing procedures, the AF or PCRF would no longer have
to use information in the SDP offer to derive bandwidth for resource
reservation purposes, but would have to extract more bandwidth information
from the SDP answer. The PCRF would no longer need to use a codec-specific
algorithm. The related detailed impacts on the Rx interface and AF and PCRF
procedures will be determined by CT3 during their normative work. The PCRF
would then use the session information to set the QoS parameters on the Gx
interface. The QoS parameters that are used on the Gx interface are the same
as in the existing specifications. The only difference is the values that the
PCEF would use. This means that there is no need to change the PCEF, the RAN
or the interfaces to these nodes.
Nodes in the network applying existing policies to modify SDP offer for
transcoding purposes would need to be updated to adjust the new bandwidth
information accordingly.
Transcoding nodes within the network would need to be updated to take into
account the new bandwidth information when encoding media. The new bandwidth
information would need to be provided to the IMS-AGW, TrGW and MRFP via the Iq
interface, Ix interface and Mp interfaces, respectively.
Adding new SDP attributes also gives automatic fallback to the legacy solution
whenever the new SDP attributes are not supported.
Compared to solution D, the SDP processing load is smaller, as the new
attribute appears only one time for each media line (and not potentially
multiple times in the SDP offer).
## 8.7 Potential solution G: New SDP attribute only in SDP answer
### 8.7.1 Introduction
A variant of proposed solution F is to only include the new bandwidth
modifiers in the SDP answer, since this shows what codec and configuration
that has been negotiated, but not to include anything new in the SDP offer.
### 8.7.2 Description of the solution
#### 8.7.2.1 General solution
This solution describes how the answering client can make the networks and the
offerer aware of the maximum supported bandwidth, the minimum supported
bandwidth, the maximum desired bandwidth and the minimum supported bandwidth
for the negotiated codec and configuration for each direction by defining a
new SDP attribute to carry the new bandwidth information. The new SDP
attribute is only included in the SDP answer.
The reason for including the new bandwidth information only in the SDP answer
is that it shows which codec and configuration that has been negotiated.
#### 8.7.2.2 New SDP attribute
See Subclause 8.6.7.2.2.
#### 8.7.2.3 Procedures
The SDP offer can contain several RTP payload types corresponding to different
codecs and configurations, where the different configurations have different
bandwidth needs.
The answerer selects a codec and configuration. In the SDP answer, the
answerer provides bandwidth information for both the send and receive
direction for the media line. The answerer provides bandwidth information
which matches the needs of the codec and configuration it selects.
#### 8.7.2.4 Session negotiation example
The conditions for this example are the same as used for solution B.
NOTE: The numerical values in those examples have not been carefully checked
and can contain errors.
Table 8.7.2.4-1: SDP offer-answer for proposed solution G with new SDP
attribute only in the SDP answer
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP offer | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | c= | | | | m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 100 99 98 97 | | | | b=AS:74 | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:98 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:98 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220; octet-align=1 | | | | a=rtpmap:99 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:99 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:100 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:100 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220; octet-align=1 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | SDP answer | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 97 | | | | b=AS:52 | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | | | | **a=bwinfo:mss 52,mds 31,iss 12,ids 31,msr 52,mdr 31,isr 12,idr 31** | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.7.2.5 Modifying the bandwidth information in the SDP offer
Since the SDP offer does not include the new bandwidth information it becomes
impossible for the networks to modify this. The network can influence the
required bandwidth by modifying the offered payload types or by reducing the
existing b=AS bandwidth modifier.
#### 8.7.2.6 Resource reservation in different networks
Since the bandwidth information for both directions is included in the SDP
answer, all networks in the path have the same information and can use this
instead of proprietary codec-specific algorithms for the resource reservation.
Thereby, it is possible to align QoS end-to-end.
### 8.7.3 Compliance with proposed requirements
This solution fulfils the proposed requirements C to E on making the networks
aware of the minimum/maximum supported/desired bandwidths for the negotiated
media and codecs. However, it does not fulfil the proposed requirements A and
B on allowing the bandwidth properties to be a part of the negotiation
process. The proposed solution is compliant with the solution design
requirements J to M and the SDP attribute related requirements G to I.
### 8.7.4 Impact on networks and terminals
Adding new information in SDP means that terminals and networks would need to
support the new SDP parameters in order to make the solution useful.
For the networks, the AF (P-CSCF) or PCRF would need to extract the new
information from the SDP answers and provide corresponding session information
to the PCRF. Compared to the existing procedures, the AF or PCRF would no
longer have to use information in the SDP offer to derive bandwidth for
resource reservation purposes, but would have to extract more bandwidth
information from the SDP answer. The PCRF would no longer need to use a codec-
specific algorithm. The related detailed impacts on the Rx interface and AF
and PCRF procedures will be determined by CT3 during their normative work. The
PCRF would then use the session information to set the QoS parameters on the
Gx interface. The QoS parameters that are used on the Gx interface are the
same as in the existing specifications. The only difference is the values that
the PCEF would use. This means that there is no need to change the PCEF, the
RAN or the interfaces to these nodes.
Nodes in the network applying existing policies to modify SDP offer for
transcoding purposes would need to be updated to adjust the new bandwidth
information accordingly.
Transcoding nodes within the network would need to be updated to take into
account the new bandwidth information when encoding media. The new bandwidth
information would need to be provided to the IMS-AGW, TrGW and MRFP via the Iq
interface, Ix interface and Mp interfaces, respectively.
Adding new SDP attributes also gives automatic fallback to the legacy solution
whenever the new SDP attributes are not supported.
Compared to solution D, the SDP processing load is smaller, as the new
attribute appears only one time for each media line in the SDP answer (and not
potentially multiple times in the SDP offer). Existing policies in the network
to modify SDP offer continue to be supported.
## 8.8 Potential solution H: Bitrate variations
### 8.8.1 Introduction
This solution defines that an averaging window should be used when calculating
the used bitrate. The length (in time) of the averaging window is then
selected such that even large bitrate variations are smoothed sufficiently to
avoid risking packet losses.
### 8.8.2 Description of the solution
The procedure for how the used bitrate should be calculated is defined in 3GPP
specifications. The procedure uses an averaging window over a specified time
period \'T\' such that an average over the given time period is calculated.
This gives a smoothing effect such that clients that need to send one or more
large packets, for example for a large I frame, have time to compensate for
this by sending smaller packets afterwards.
The solution defines the time period that is used in somewhat different ways
depending on whether the entity is generating media or whether the entity is
monitoring the media:
\- Entities generating media, e.g. codecs, should generate packets such that
the average bitrate measured over a time period \'Te\' that is shorter than or
equal to T.
\- Entities monitoring the media, e.g. policing functions, should calculate
the average bitrate over a time period that \'Tp\' that is longer than or
equal to T.
The length of the averaging window \'T\' is proposed to be 2 seconds for MBR
calculation (see Annex A).
NOTE: It will be determined during the normative phase of the work whether the
recommended 2sec averaging window also applies to the GBR.
This solution does not use any signalling between clients and networks, or
between different networks nodes. This means that the implementation is local
in the respective node. This also means that the actual implementation could
be different and does not use an averaging window as long as the performance
is equivalent to what is defined above. For example, a client generating media
could use a packet pacing function to avoid sending several large packets too
closely to each other, which would create a high peak bitrate and would risk
triggering the policing function.
The time period T can be made dependent on the QCI and thus media specific or
service specific by defining it in media or service specifications, for
example in TS 26.114. It is FFS whether a time period T dependant on the QCI
offers significant advantages over a fixed time period T that is sufficiently
long for all services. It is also FFS to determine whether a separate value of
T should be defined for source-controlled Variable-Bit-Rate (VBR) operation
vs. non-VBR codec modes, e.g. for EVS using VBR operation.
If a generic definition is desired, which is then used for all media and all
services, then it may be better to define the time period in PCC or EPC
specifications.
### 8.8.3 Compliance with proposed requirements
This solution fulfils the proposed requirement F on bitrate variations.
### 8.8.4 Impact on networks and terminals
It is well known that encoders, especially for video, generate media with
large bitrate variations already today. This means that both networks and
terminals should already use some form of averaging when calculating the
bitrate. Policing functions need to do this to avoid dropping packets
unnecessarily. Terminals also need this to reduce the variations to avoid
triggering packet dropping in policing functions.
When introducing this solution it should therefore be relatively easy to
implement it also in networks and terminals. This solution also means no
changes to the architecture or the interfaces, which further simplifies the
implementation.
# 9 Conclusion and recommendations
This study has identified a number of use cases where the media handling is
currently suboptimal since the resources are independently allocated in
different networks. This can lead to either over-allocation, under-allocation
or even both. These use cases would benefit from end-to-end alignment of the
QoS settings.
A gap analysis has been performed for the use cases to derive a set of
proposed requirements. Several proposed solutions have been analysed with
respect to their compliance with the requirements, and also with respect to
impact on networks and terminals.
The following areas are found to have weaknesses:
\- It is not described in TS 26.114 for which conditions session re-
negotiation can be performed to align codec and codec configurations end-to-
end.
\- Mechanisms for aligning bandwidth properties end-to-end are undefined to a
large degree.
\- Definitions are lacking for bandwidth variations.
The recommendations of the present document are:
\- To perform work addressing the above areas.
\- Solution A on session re-negotiation should be addressed in the
specification phase, where it can be outlined in more detail.
\- Solution C and D are the only ones fulfilling all requirements A-E on new
bandwidth information. Solution D has lower network impact and is suggested to
be the basis for the future work.
\- Solution H on bitrate variations should also be pursued in the normative
work.
\- To coordinate this work with other 3GPP groups and IETF, in particular with
SA2, RAN2, CT3 and CT4.
###### ### Annex A: Determining suitable averaging window length
# A.1 Introduction
This annex describes one method for how a suitable averaging window length can
be determined for variable bitrate media. The method included in clause A.2
uses video encoding for real-time conversational video as an example but it is
easy to extend this method to other media and other services. A discussion on
how the method can be modified for other media is included in clause A.3.
# A.2 Suitable averaging window for video
## A.2.1 Reasonable video encoder configuration
The video codec used in this analysis is configured as described in the table
below.
Table A.2.1-1: Parameters used in this analysis
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Property | Value(s) | Comments | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Video codec | H.264 | The video codec that | | | | is use is actually | | | | unimportant for this | | | | analysis | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Bit rate | 384 kbps | The average bitrate | | | | that is actually | | | | unimportant for this | | | | analysis | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Frame rate | 10, 15, 20, 30 Hz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Average frame data | 2400 bytes/frame | The average frame | | size | | data size is | | | | actually unimportant | | | | for this analysis | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Frame data sizes, I | 5x, 10x average | | | frames | frame data size | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Packetization | 2 RTP packets per | This analysis | | | video frame on | assumes that all RTP | | | average | packets are | | | | transmitted at once, | | | Up to 10-20 RTP | which makes the | | | packets for I frames | packetization | | | | unimportant for this | | | | analysis | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | IPv6/UDP/RTP | 40+8+12 = 60 bytes | The IP overhead is | | overhead | | actually unimportant | | | | for this analysis | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## A.2.2 Normal transmission
The normal transmission behaviour means that there is no need to send any
large I frames. The actual frame data size will vary but the expectation value
of the frame data size is still constant and depends only on the bitrate
(encoding bitrate plus IP/UDP/RTP overhead) and the frame rate:
$E\lbrack\text{frameDataSize}\rbrack = \frac{(\text{encodingBitrate} +
\text{overhead})}{\text{frameRate}} = X$ (A.2.2-1)
This is illustrated in the table below.
Table A.2.2-1: Description of expected normal sending behaviour
* * *
Frame number -m ... -3 -2 -1 0 +1 +2 +3 ... +m E[fds] X ... X X X X X X X ...
X Average X X X X X X X X X
* * *
This is independent of the window length and the position.
## A.2.3 Sending a large I frame
If a large I frame (5x the average frame data size) is transmitted and if the
surrounding frames are not modified then the average depends on the length of
the window and also the position. In the table below it is assumed that the
length of the window is 5 frames and the average frame data size at position
\'p\' calculated over the last 5 frames.
Table A.2.3-1: Average frame data size with different positioning
* * *
Frame number -6 -5 -4 -3 -2 -1 0 +1 +2 +3 +4 +5 +6 E[fds] X X X X X X 5X X X X
X X X Avg@-6 X  
Avg@-5 X  
Avg@-4 X  
Avg@-3 X  
Avg@-2 X  
Avg@-1 X  
Avg\@0 1.8X  
Avg@+1 1.8X  
Avg@+2 1.8X  
Avg@+3 1.8X  
Avg@+4 1.8X  
Avg@+5 X  
Avg@+6 X
* * *
It is here assumed that the policing allows for X. This means that for the Nth
frame and for the 4 subsequent frames the average will exceed the MBR and the
policing may drop some packets. This is highlighted in the table above.
## A.2.4 Compensating for a large I frame
To compensate for the large I frame, the frame before and after would need to
be encoded at a lower bitrate. If the averaging window is 5 frames and the
size of the I frame is 5X then 4 frames before and after would need to be
encoded at 0 bits. This is shown in the table below.
Table A.2.4-1: Compensating for a large I frame
* * *
Frame number -6 -5 -4 -3 -2 -1 0 +1 +2 +3 +4 +5 +6 E[fds] X X 0 0 0 0 5X 0 0 0
0 X X Avg@-6 X  
Avg@-5 X  
Avg@-4 0.8X  
Avg@-3 0.6X  
Avg@-2 0.4X  
Avg@-1 0.2X  
Avg\@0 X  
Avg@+1 X  
Avg@+2 X  
Avg@+3 X  
Avg@+4 X  
Avg@+5 0.2X  
Avg@+6 0.4X
* * *
This now fulfils the MBR requirement and the policing should not need to drop
any packets.
An obvious drawback of this is that 8 out of 9 frames are not transmitted so
the video is frozen for a quite many frames, both before and after the I
frame. How long freezing time one will get before and after the I frame
depends on the frame rate:
\- 10 fps → 4*1/10 s = 0.4 s
\- 15 fps → 4*1/15 s = 0.267 s
\- 20 fps → 4*1/20 s = 0.2 s
\- 30 fps → 4*1/30 s = 0.133 s
The total impacted period is 9 frames (freezing before the I frame + the I
frame + freezing after the I frame):
\- 10 fps → 9*1/10 s = 0.9 s
\- 15 fps → 9*1/15 s = 0.6 s
\- 20 fps → 9*1/20 s = 0.45 s
\- 30 fps → 9*1/30 s = 0.3 s
## A.2.5 Sending an even larger I frame
Sending a 10x I frame while keeping the window length at 5 frames means that
it becomes impossible to send all the date at once. To avoid exceeding the MBR
one have to:
\- skip the transmission of the 4 frames before the I frame
\- send half of the data for the I frame (similar to what is shown above)
\- skip the transmission of the next 4 frames
\- send the remaining half of the data for the I frame
\- skip the transmission of the 4 frames subsequent
It should be noted that the I frame cannot be completely decoded until the
second half of the data has arrived, so the freezing time before the
presentation of the I frame will be 9 frame periods. This corresponds to
0.3-0.9 seconds, depending on the frame rate.
This extra delay to send the second half of the data for the I frame is in the
present document called \"packet pacing\" but other terminologies can also be
relevant. This packet pacing would come automatically if a token bucket were
used for the transmission. The drawback with the packet pacing is that it
increases the end-to-end delay. If one want to maintain a smooth and regular
play-out rate then this extra delay would impact all frames.
## A.2.6 Using a longer averaging window
Extending the averaging window to 10 frames when sending a 5x frames allows
for sending the frames immediately before and after the I frame. However,
those frames need to be encoded at a lower bitrate. One example is shown in
the table below where the surrounding frames are encoded with 50% of the
average bitrate.
Table A2.6-1: Compensating for a large I frame
* * *
Frame number -11 -10 -9 -8 -7 -6 -5 -4 -3 -2 -1 0 +1 E[fds] 1 1 1 0.5 0.5 0.5
0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 5 0.5 Avg 1 1 1 0.95 0.9 0.85 0.8 0.75 0.7 0.65 0.6 1 0.95
Frame number +2 +3 +4 +5 +6 +7 +8 +9 +10 +11 +12 +13 +14 E[fds] 0.5 0.5 0.5
0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 1 1 1 1 1 1 Avg 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 0.95 1 0.6 0.65
0.7 0.75 0.8
Frame number +15 +16 +17 +18 +19 +20 +21  
E[fds] 1 1 1 1 1 1 1  
Avg 0.85 0.9 0.95 1 1 1 1
* * *
The above description can be easily expanded to other variants.
## A.2.7 Selection of averaging window length
From the discussion above it can be derived that the window length, expressed
in number of frames, depends on the following parameters:
\- the relationship between the average bitrate and the recovery bitrate used
before and after the I frame
\- the relationship between the maximum frame data size that one want to
handle in relation to the average frame data size
This can be expressed with the following formula:
$\text{avgWinLength} = \frac{\text{avgBitrate}}{\text{avgBitrate} -
\text{recoveryBitrate}} \ast
\frac{\text{maxFrameDataSize}}{\text{avgFrameDataSize}}$ (A.2.7-1)
A few examples are shown in the table below:
Table A.2.7-1: Examples of averaging window lengths
* * *
avgBitrate recoveryBitrate maxFrameDataSize avgFrameDataSize avgWinLength B
B/2 5X X 10 B B/3 5X X 7.5 B B/4 5X X 3.75 B 0 5X X 5 B B/2 10X X 20 B B/3 10X
X 15 B B/4 10X X 7.5 B 0 10X X 10
* * *
Assuming that MTSI should allow for I frames up to 10 times the size of the
average frame and assuming that MTSI should allow for using 50% of the average
bitrate during the recovery period then the length of the averaging window
becomes 20 frames.
Assuming further that frame rate should normally be between 10 and 30, the
worst case (10 fps) gives T = 2 seconds.
# A.3 Other services
## A.3.1 Conversational speech using EVS VBR
In most cases (fixed-rate codecs, AMR, AMR-WB, EVS with CBR), the bearer setup
is set to the highest codec mode, or higher if application layer redundancy is
needed. Using an averaging window of 2 seconds should work well.
EVS however also includes the 5.9 kbps VBR mode. The 5.9 kbps average rate is
only applicable to speech. If the signal is non-speech it can happen that the
higher bitrate modes (7.2 or 8.0 kbps) are used for longer periods of time.
It is not obvious how to handle this with an averaging window in the policing
function because at session setup, when the codec mode is decided, one do not
know what type of signal that will be injected into the encoder.
There is however a quite straight-forward solution, which is to set the MBR
(or GBR for MBR>GBR bearers) to 8.0 kbps or higher whenever the 5.9VBR is
negotiated for the session, even if 5.9VBR is the only allowed mode.
## A.3.2 Streaming and other non-conversational services
Streaming services and non-conversational services allow for longer end-to-end
delay than conversational services. This gives more room for using packet
pacing in the client to give a smoother bitrate.
Other services may be more similar to file transfer and may show very large
bitrate variations than what is discussed above for video. These may therefore
need a longer averaging window.
Also, if a vendor wants to use the same averaging window for all services then
he should select the maximum one. If MTSI clients assume that the averaging
window is 2 seconds then this should still work well. This is why the
following statements are important:
\- Policing functions in the network should use an averaging window that is at
least 2 seconds.
\- UEs should assume that the averaging window in policing functions is no
longer than 2 seconds.
With this, the different service specifications could define different window
lengths. It can then be left for the implementers to decide if they want to
use one single averaging window length or if they want to have different
averaging window lengths for different QCIs.
#