# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
SA4 has been working on the selection of a codec to recommend for Speech
Enabled Services since October 2002 under the WID for SES [9]. The usual
process of agreeing \"design constrains\" [10], \"test and processing plan\"
[7] and \"recommendation criteria\" [8] was followed and completed before
evaluating the candidates.
Two candidate codecs were proposed and evaluated:
1) ETSI Standard for the DSR Extended Advanced Front-end (ES 202 212)
2) AMR and AMR-WB audio codec
The performance evaluations were conducted by two leading companies in the
area of speech recognition, IBM and Scansoft. Results from these evaluations
were presented at SA4#30 in February 2004 and are summarised here. The
\"recommendation criteria\" have been applied and SA4 recommends the DSR codec
for Speech Enabled Services. SES codecs are introduced in packet switched
conversational services in Technical Specifications 26.235 & 26.236 [5,6].
# 1 Scope
This technical report provides information on the recognition performance of
the DSR Extended Advanced Front End conducted by speech recognition vendors
IBM and Scansoft for the selection of a codec for Speech Enabled Services. The
performance results are provided both as absolute word error rates for DSR and
AMR-NB/AMR-WB on a range of extensive evaluation databases and as relative
word error rate reductions when compared to both the AMR-NB and AMR-WB codecs.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.234: \"Speech recognition framework for automated voice
services; Stage 1\".
[2] 3GPP TR 22.977: \"Feasibility study for speech enabled services\".
[3] ETSI ES 202 050: \"Distributed Speech Recognition; Advanced Front-end
Feature Extraction Algorithm; Compression Algorithm\".
[4] ETSI ES 202 212: \"Distributed Speech Recognition; Extended Advanced
Front-end Feature Extraction Algorithm; Compression Algorithm, Back-end Speech
Reconstruction Algorithm\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.235: \"Packet switched conversational multimedia applications;
Default codecs\".
[6] 3GPP TS 26.236: \"Packet switched conversational multimedia applications;
Transport Protocols\".
[7] TD S4-030543 \"Test and Processing plan for default codec evaluation for
speech enabled services (SES)\", SA4
[8] TD SP-030440 \"Recommendation Criteria for Default Codec for Speech
Enabled Services (SES)\", TSG SA.
[9] TD SP-020687 WID Codec Work to Support Speech Recognition Framework for
Automated Voice Services (Rel-6), TSG SA.
[10] TD S4-030248 \"Design Constraints for default codec for speech enabled
services (SES)\", SA4.
Note: Annex A lists all the key SA4 SES selection phase documents. Temporary
Documents are attached to this specification in a separate .zip file.
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AFE Advanced Front-end
> AMR Adaptive Multi-Rate
>
> AMR-NB AMR Narrowband
AMR-WB AMR Wideband
> BLER Block Error Rate
>
> DSR Distributed Speech Recognition
>
> EDGE Enhanced Data for GSM Evolution
>
> ETSI European Telecommunications Standards Institute
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
> SES Speech Enabled Services
>
> SNR Signal To Noise Ratio
>
> VAD Voice Activity Detector
>
> X-AFE eXtended Advanced Front-end
# 4 General
## 4.1 Project History
Table 1 below shows the progress and timeline of the project. In particular
the creation of permanent documents; identification of candidate codecs and
test organisations; running of the performance evaluations by test
organisations; selection at SA4; verification; and the approval of CRs and TS
at SA. Key milestones are highlighted in bold.
**Table 1:** SES project timeline
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Meeting** | **Status of progress in | | | activities** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SA4 #23 | - **Draft WID and work plan** | | | | | (30 Sept - 4 Oct 2002) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SA4 #24 | - Permanent documents | | | | | (11-15 Nov 2002) | - Design Constraints V1.0 | | | | | | - Test & Processing Plan | | | V0.8 | | | | | | - Recommendation Criteria | | | V0.1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Intermediate deadline on SA4 | - Submission of specification | | reflector 31.12.2002 | of additional databases as | | | candidate for testing as | | | part of test and processing | | | plan. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Intermediate deadline on SA4 | - Any company which would | | reflector 31.12.2002 | possibly like to submit a | | | candidate will indicate | | | before 31.12.2002. Later | | | indications will not be | | | considered. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SA4 #25 | - List of testing | | | organisations | | (20-24 Jan 2003) | | | | - Permanent documents | | | | | | - Design Constraints V1.1 | | | | | | - Test Plan & Processing | | | Plan V1.0 | | | | | | - Recommendation Criteria | | | V0.3 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SA4 #25 bis | - **List of testing | | | organisations (IBM & | | (24-28 Feb 2003) | SpeechWorks)** | | | | | | - **List of candidate codecs | | | (DSR X-AFE & | | | AMR-NB/AMR-WB)** | | | | | | - Permanent documents | | | | | | - **Design Constraints | | | V2.0** | | | | | | - Test Plan & Processing | | | Plan V1.3 | | | | | | - Recommendation Criteria | | | V0.3 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SA4 SQ SES ad-hoc | - Permanent documents | | | | | 1-2 April 2003 Basingstoke, UK | - Test & Processing Plan | | | V1.4 | | | | | | - Recommendation Criteria | | | V0.3 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SA4 #26 | - Permanent documents | | | | | (5-9 May 2003) | - **Test & Processing Plan | | | V2.0** | | | | | | - Recommendation Criteria | | | V0.6 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SA4 #27 | Approval of permanent docs | | | | | (7-11 July 2003) | - **Test & Processing Plan | | | V2.2** | | | | | | - **Recommendation Criteria | | | V2.0** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | ASR vendor evaluations start. | - **ASR vendors start tests.** | | | | | Aug 2003 | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Deliverables from candidates: | - Fixed point complexity | | | assessment | | (31 October 2003) | | | | - Drafts of new 3GPP TSs (for | | | new codecs), or existing | | | specifications for | | | information (codecs already | | | in standards) | | | | | | - Justification document of | | | having met the Design | | | Constraints | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SA4 #29 | - | | | | | (24-28 Nov 2003) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Preparation for verification | - Agree verification plan by | | | correspondence (19 Dec) | | | | | | - Complete any legal | | | agreements (NDAs) that are | | | needed (15 Feb) | | | | | | - Verification labs to obtain | | | any databases needed (15 | | | Feb) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Informative speech quality | - Nokia and Ericsson to supply | | listening tests | listening test speech files | | | to Motorola (5^th^ Dec) | | | | | | - Motorola to process | | | listening test speech files | | | supplied by Nokia and | | | Ericsson (15 Jan) | | | | | | - Nokia and Ericsson conduct | | | listening tests | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Completion of ASR vendor | - **Results from ASR vendor | | evaluations | evaluations to ETSI | | | representative** | | (31 Jan 2004) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SA4 #30 | **SES Selection meeting** | | | | | (23-27 Feb 2004) | - Results from evaluator tests | | | available | | | | | | - Make recommendation | | | | | | - Prepare TSs for approval @ | | | SA#23 | | | | | | - Prepare CRs for approval @ | | | SA#23 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SES Verification (1 March) | - Verification of selected | | | > codec (ST-Micro). | | | | | | - Discussion of results of | | | > verification conference | | | > call March. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SA #23 | - TSs for information | | | | | (15-17 March 2004) | - CRs for information | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SA4 #31 | - **Verification report** | | | | | (17-21 May 2004) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SA #24 | - **TSs approval (** TS 26.243) | | | | | (7-10 June 2004) | `{=html} | | |  | | |` | | | - **CRs approval** (TS 26.235 | | | & TS 26.236) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## 4.2 Overview of the speech recognition framework for automated voice
services work item
The work item covered the evaluation of candidate codecs for use in a speech
recognition framework for automated voice services. The 3GPP speech
recognition framework enables the use of conventional codecs (e.g. AMR) or DSR
optimised codecs to distribute in the network the speech engines that process
speech input or generate speech output.
The aim of the work item is, through objective evaluation, to recommend a
single codec for speech enabled services based on a speech recognition
framework.
## 4.3 Presentation of the following sections
The following sections provide a summary of the Selection Phase test results,
including the results of the objective performance measurements, and a record
of other relevant information for the selected candidate algorithm.
  * Section 5 describes the Recommendation Criteria defined for the Selection Phase
  * Section 6 defines the means used to measure the performance of each of the candidates
  * Section 7 summarises the recognition evaluation results
# 5 Recommendation criteria
## 5.1 Overview
The set of databases used for the evaluations are defined in the Test and
Processing Plan [7]. Each of these databases contains different types of
speech material covering a variety of tasks, environments and languages.
Recommendation was based on a score obtained from the recognition performance
measured on each of these different databases. Section 5.3 describes how the
scores from all the individual databases are combined using a weighting table.
## 5.2 Scoring on individual databases
For each database the reference performance is measured as the word error rate
obtained from the ASR vendor\'s system. This is the performance obtained from
a state-of-the-art system from the ASR vendor assuming a transparent channel.
The performance (word error rate) on a given database is also measured with
the ASR vendors system for a codec under test as described in the test and
processing plan [7].
Scoring for tests performed with channel BLER were also computed in a similar
way. Note that only BLER of 1% and 3% were considered as part of the
recommendation criteria[8].
## 5.3 Performance metric over all databases
The overall performance was determined by averaging the absolute word error
rate using the weightings presented in the detailed tables of Appendix 2 of
the recommendation criteria document [8]. The result of this weighted average
is an overall measure of the average word error rate for each codec. This
metric is called the \"average word error rate\".
## 5.4 Comparisons between codecs
### 5.4.1 Low data-rate codec comparison
The two codecs under consideration at low data-rate are AMR 4.75 and DSR AFE
with extension (5.6kbit/s). Only 8 kHz sampling rate is considered since there
is no AMR-WB codec at low data rate.
Table A2.1 in Appendix 2 of the recommendation criteria document [8] shows the
list of databases that will be tested and the weightings to be given to the
scores obtained for each of these databases.
### 5.4.2 High data-rate codec comparison
At high data-rates the comparisons are made separately at 8 kHz and 16 kHz
sampling rates.
#### 5.4.2.1 8 kHz sampling rate
The two codecs under consideration at high data-rate at 8 kHz sampling are AMR
12.2 & DSR X-AFE (5.6kbit/s).
#### 5.4.2.2 16 kHz sampling rate
The two codecs under consideration at high data-rate at 16 kHz sampling are
AMR-WB 12.65 & DSR X-AFE (5.6 kbit/s).
## 5.5 Detailed recommendation comparisons
To justify the introduction of a new codec for SES it was considered that DSR
would need to demonstrate substantial improvements compared to the existing
AMR voice codec already mandated for voice communications. The following
performance requirements were agreed by 3GPP SA4:
For the low data-rate comparison:
\- If the relative reduction in average word error rate for the DSR AFE codec
and its extension compared to the AMR 4.75 kbps codec is more than 35% then
the DSR codec and its extension will be recommended.
\- If the relative reduction in average word error rate for the DSR AFE codec
and its extension compared to the AMR 4.75 kbps codec is less than 20% then
the DSR codec will not be recommended.
\- If the relative reduction in average word error rate for the DSR AFE codec
and its extension compared to the AMR 4.75 kbps codec is less than 20% then
AMR will be recommended.
\- If the relative reduction in average word error rate for the DSR AFE codec
and its extension compared to the AMR 4.75 kbps codec is between 20% and 35%
then the performance results will be further considered by SA4 and if there is
no consensus the results will be passed to SA for decision on what
recommendation to make.
\- For the high data-rate comparison at 8 kHz:
\- If the relative reduction in average word error rate for the DSR AFE codec
and its extension compared to the AMR 12.2 kbps codec is more than 30% then
the DSR codec and its extension will be recommended.
\- If the relative reduction in average word error rate for the DSR AFE codec
and its extension compared to the AMR 12.2 kbps codec is less than 20% then
the DSR codec will not be recommended.
\- If the relative reduction in average word error rate for the DSR AFE codec
and its extension compared to the AMR 12.2 kbps codec is less than 20% then
AMR will be recommended.
\- If the relative reduction in average word error rate for the DSR AFE codec
and its extension compared to the AMR 12.2 kbps codec is between 20% and 30%
then the performance results will be further considered by SA4 and if there is
no consensus the results will be passed to SA for decision on what
recommendation to make.
\- For the high data-rate comparison at 16 kHz:
\- If the relative reduction in average word error rate for the DSR AFE codec
and its extension compared to the AMR-WB codec is more than 25% then the DSR
codec and its extension will be recommended.
\- If the relative reduction in average word error rate for the DSR AFE codec
and its extension compared to the AMR-WB codec is less than 15% then the DSR
codec will not be recommended.
\- If the relative reduction in average word error rate for the DSR AFE codec
and its extension compared to the AMR-WB codec is less than 15% then AMR-WB
will be recommended.
# 6 Performance evaluation method
## 6.1 Introduction
Codec evaluation was based on a framework which includes databases, codecs and
speech recognition engine. The evaluators were requested to use the same
recognition engine for all codecs.
The evaluation framework for codec test is shown in Figures 1 and 2 below. Fig
1 applies for codecs with speech interface like a conventional speech codec
and figure 2 applies for codecs with feature data interface like DSR optimised
codecs.
The evaluation framework contains 2 processing stages:
· The candidate codec
· The speech recogniser from the evaluator
{width="5.958333333333333in" height="1.5618055555555554in"}
**Figure 1** : Evaluation framework for speech codec (note that in this case
the speech recogniser includes front-end and back-end decoder)
{width="6.002777777777778in" height="1.4993055555555554in"}
**Figure 2** : Evaluation framework for DSR optimised codec (note that in this
case the speech recogniser is back-end decoder only)
## 6.2 Recognition engines
ASR vendors performed the evaluations. Each ASR vendor was provided with the
databases for the evaluation consisting of defined training and test sets
(3GPP supplied databases). In addition ASR vendors proprietary databases were
used as well (ASR Vendor Supplied databases). Each ASR Vendor ran performance
tests on these databases considering both the AMR codec chain shown in figure
1 and the DSR optimised codec chain as shown in figure 2. ASR vendors had a
free choice over the recogniser back-end configuration.
### 6.2.1 Recognizer for speech codecs based proposals
As the AMR and AMR WB Codec can operate at several bitrates, a selection of
bitrates had to be done for each test. Simulation of all AMR and AMR WB modes
with all databases leads to practically unfeasible tests, therefore the number
of Modes which were evaluated was limited. For each selected bitrates the
complete evaluation was run on all databases. That means the training and test
was performed with that bitrate on the whole database. Table 2 below shows the
test conditions for AMR and AMR WB.
**Table 2** : Test conditions for AMR and AMR WB Codec
* * *
Bitrate Codec Sampling rate 4.75 kbps AMR 8 kHz 12.2 kbps AMR 8 kHz 12.65 kbps
AMR WB 16 kHz
* * *
### 6.2.2 Training and testing
The training was done using the coded & decoded speech data processed at the
tested AMR bit rates as shown in table 2 above.
After the speech decoder, any speech signal processing, e.g. compensating the
coding artefacts or calculating the tonal language parameters, can be applied
to the speech signal before calculating the actual recognition features.
### 6.2.3 Recognizer for DSR
Figure 2 shows the processing chain for a DSR front-end. The Advanced DSR
Front-end (AFE) can operate with 8 or 16 kHz sampling rates. The feature
extraction produces 12 mel-cepstral features (C1-C12), the zeroth order
cepstral feature (C0) and log energy parameter (logE) at a 10ms frame rate.
Recognisers may make use of either C0 or logE or both. The feature extraction
is described in the ETSI standard document for ES 202 050 [1]. The static
feature vector may be subject to further processing of the evaluators choice
to produce dynamic features. The software for the DSR standard contains an
example implementing the recommended way of derivative calculation although
evaluators were free to use their own alternatives.
In addition to the cepstral features the DSR AFE extension provides a pitch
feature that may optionally be used as a feature to assist recognition when
processing tonal languages. The raw pitch feature may be subject to further
processing of the evaluators choice to produce tonal features to supplement
the cepstral feature vector (e.g. smoothing or derivative calculation).
### 6.2.4 Training and testing
Training should be performed with the features after compression and
decompression with an error free channel. The same feature post-processing
should be used for training as for recognition.
## 6.3 Usage of VAD for frame dropping
For the purpose of these performance evaluations no voice activity detector
was used for frame dropping either for discontinuous transmission at the
terminal or at the recognition engine at the server.
## 6.4 Codec evaluations
Codec evaluations were conducted over a range of tasks as described in the
following sections.
### 6.4.1 Recognition experiments under error-free channel
1\. Connected digit recognition task
\- Aurora-2
\- Aurora-3
\- Vendor 2 In-car Japanese, German, US English
\- Vendor 1 US English in-car
\- Vendor 1 Mandarin Embedded corpus (digits)
2\. Sub-word trained model recognition task
\- Nokia Mandarin Chinese name dialling (tone recognition ignored in
performance scoring)
\- Vendor 2 In-car
\- Japanese
\- German,
\- US English
\- Vendor 1 Mandarin Embedded Corpus (names /street names /organization
names/commands)
\- Vendor 1 US English in car (commands, addresses, radio-controls,
navigation, lifestyle information services and points-of-interest)
3\. Tone confusability task
\- Nokia Mandarin Chinese name dialling (tone recognition taken into account
in performance scoring)
4\. Channel error task.
\- Aurora-3 Italian
**Table 3** : Table of databases for 8 kHz evaluations
{width="5.999305555555556in" height="4.65625in"}
**Table 4** : Table of databases for 16 kHz evaluations
{width="5.999305555555556in" height="4.65625in"}
## 6.5 Recognition experiments under channel errors
For the purposes of testing under channel errors the Aurora-3 Italian database
with the well-matched training and testing condition was used.
Each codec was tested under error free channel and with average channel BLERs
of 1%, 3%.
Recognition tests were conducted by SpeechWorks and IBM using the supplied
test sets. Models for these tests were trained on the error free training
data.
SES are planned for use with PSS over UTRAN, EGPRS and GPRS channels. The BLER
error masks were generated by Alcatel using a network simulation model to have
representative distributions with the following considerations and specific
conditions:-
**EGPRS (/GPRS) channel:**
Simulations for GPRS and EGPRS were combined as the coding schemes for CS1
..CS4 and MCS1 .. MCS4 are equivalent. Thereby the use of a EGPRS channel was
sufficient.
The following parameters were used in the model:
\- Typical Urban condition
\- Scenarios: pedestrian with 3 km/h speed
\- no FH
\- unacknowledged mode
\- One 20msec Frame per RTP/UDP Packet
\- One RTP/UDP Packet per RLC/MAC Block
3 BLER patterns for EGPRS were provided, namely EG_EP1, EG_EP2 and EG_EP3
> EG_EP1 = error condition in very good channel (mean BLER \~ 1 %)
>
> EG_EP2 = error condition in good channel.(mean BLER \~ 3 %)
>
> EG_EP3 = error condition in bad channel.(mean BLER \~ 10 %)
**UTRAN Channel:**
Error situation for UTRAN channel will be better (fast power control) than in
EGPRS channel. The UTRAN channel is here approximated using the EG_EP1 error
mask of the EGPRS channel.
# 7 Recognition Performance Evaluation Results
This section presents the results of the evaluations performed by ASR vendors
IBM and Scansoft. The ASR vendors requested to keep their individual results
anonymous and are therefore documented here as Result A and Result B.
Results are provided in three sets of tables.
\- The first set presents the results of the low data rate comparison between
the DSR AFE codec and the AMR-NB codec operating at 4.75 kbps with 8 kHz
sampling rate.
\- The second set presents the results of the high data rate comparison
between the DSR AFE codec and the AMR-NB codec operating at 12.2 kbps with 8
kHz sampling rate.
\- The third set presents the results of the high data rate comparison between
the DSR AFE codec and the AMR-WB codec operating at 12.65 kbps with 16 kHz
sampling rate.
The tasks are split into the task categories shown in the tables: ie digits,
subword, tone confusability and channel errors.
Finally an overall relative reduction in word error rate figure is given for
each comparison.
For each test database the absolute performance in terms of word error rate is
given and the relative improvement of DSR compared to AMR is shown.
The relative improvement is computed for each database as (word error rate for
AMR -- word error rate for DSR)/word error rate for AMR.
The overall word error rate improvement is the weighted average of the
improvement for each of the categories. Ie Sum of task category weight x
improvement for category.
{width="6.004166666666666in" height="5.090277777777778in"}
{width="6.004166666666666in" height="5.090277777777778in"}
{width="6.004166666666666in" height="4.248611111111111in"}
It is noted that for the evaluations at 16 kHz one of the ASR vendors
performed downsampling to 8 kHz.
###### ### Annex A: Key selection phase documents
All the following documents can be found on the 3GPP FTP site (and are
attached in a .zip file to this specification).
\- TD SP-020687 WID Codec Work to Support Speech Recognition Framework for
Automated Voice Services (Rel-6), TSG SA
\- TD S4-030248 \"Design Constraints for default codec for speech enabled
services (SES)\", SA4
\- TD S4-030543 \"Test and Processing plan for default codec evaluation for
speech enabled services (SES)\", SA4
\- TD SP-030440 \"Recommendation Criteria for Default Codec for Speech Enabled
Services (SES)\", TSG SA
\- TD S4-040145 \"SES Evaluation from ASR vendors (spreadsheet and informative
data)\", SA4
\- TD S4-040153 \"Verification plan for SES DSR v1.0\", SA4
\- TD S4-040152 \"Results of error resilience for SES codec candidates**\",**
France Telecom, SA4
\- TD S4-040336 \"SES Verification report\", SA4
#