# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides background information on the performances of
the Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) speech codec. Experimental test results from the
Verification and Characterization phases of testing are reported to illustrate
the behavior of AMR in multiple operational conditions.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
> [1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
> Abbreviations and acronyms\".
>
> [2] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
> Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Vocabulary\".
>
> [3] GSM 03.50: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
> Transmission planning aspects of the speech service in the GSM Public Land
> Mobile Network (PLMN) system\".
>
> [4] GSM 06.08: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Half rate speech;
> Performance characterization of the GSM half rate speech codec\".
>
> [5] GSM 06.55: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Performance
> Characterization of the GSM Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech codec\".
>
> [6] GSM 08.60: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; In-band control of
> remote transcoders and rate adaptors for Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) and full
> rate traffic channels\".
>
> [7] GSM 08.61: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; In-band control of
> remote transcoders and rate adaptors for half rate traffic channels\".
>
> [8] 3GPP TSG-RAN: UTRAN Typical Radio Interface Parameter Sets, Version 1.3,
> August 2000, from the GSM-A.
>
> [9] 3GPP TS 25.211: \"Transport channels and physical channels (FDD)\".
>
> [10] 3GPP TS 26.101: \"Frame Structure\".
>
> [11] ITU-T Recommendation G.726: \"40, 32, 24, 16 kbit/s Adaptive
> Differential Pulse Code Modulation (ADPCM)\".
>
> [12] ITU-T Recommendation G.728: \"Coding of speech at 16 kbit/s using low-
> delay code excited linear prediction\".
>
> [13] ITU-T Recommendation G.729: \"C source code and test vectors for
> implementation verification of the G.729 8 kbit/s CS-ACELP speech coder\".
>
> [14] ITU-T Recommendation E.180: \"Technical characteristics of tones for
> the telephone service\".
>
> [15] ITU-T Recommendation G.723.1: \"Dual rate speech coder for multimedia
> communications transmitting at 5.3 and 6.3 kbit/s\".
>
> [16] ITU-T Recommendation Q.23: \"Technical features of push-button
> telephone sets\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) codec: s** peech and channel codec capable of
operating in a GSM system at gross bit-rates of 11.4 kbit/s (\"_half-rate_ \")
and 22.8 kbit/s (\"_full-rate_ \"). In addition, the codec may operate at
various combinations of speech and channel coding (_codec mode_) bit-rates for
each _channel mode_.
In UMTS, the AMR speech codec may operate at one of 8 possible _codec modes_
bit rates
The following definitions apply to a GSM Radio Access Network only:
**Bit-rate change: cha** nge of the _codec mode_ bit-rates for a given (HR/FR)
_channel mode_
**Channel mode:** GSM Half-rate or full-rate operation
**Channel mode adaptation:** control and selection of the (FR or HR) _channel
mode_
**Codec mode: f** or a given _channel mode_ , the bit partitioning between the
speech and channel codecs
**Codec mode adaptation:** control and selection of the _codec mode_ bit-rates
**Error Patterns: r** esult of offline simulations stored on files. To be used
by the \"Error Insertion Device\" to model the radio transmission from the
output of the channel coder and interleaver to the input of the deinterleaver
and channel decoder
**Full-rate (FR):** GSM Full-rate channel or GSM _channel mode_
**Gross bit-rate:** bit-rate of the _channel_ _mode_ selected (22,8 kbit/s or
11,4 kbit/s in GSM)
**Half-rate (HR):** GSM Half-rate channel or GSM _channel mode_ (GSM Radio
Access Network Only)
**In-Band Signaling: si** gnalling for codec mode indication and modification
carried within the traffic channel.
**Out-of-Band Signaling: si** gnalling on the GSM control channels to support
link control
General definitions:
**Toll Quality: s** peech quality normally achieved on modern wireline
telephones
Synonym with \"ISDN quality\" in most western countries.
**Wireline quality: s** peech quality provided by modern wireline networks.
Normally taken to imply quality at least as good as that of 32kbit/s ITU-T
Recommendation G.726 [11] or ITU-T Recommendation G.728 [12] 16 kbit/s codecs
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
> A/D Analogue to Digital
>
> ACR Absolute Category Rating
>
> ADPCM Adaptive Differential Pulse Code Modulation
>
> AMR Adaptive Multi-Rate
>
> BSC Base Station Controller
>
> BTS Base Transceiver Station
>
> C/I Carrier-to-Interfere ratio
>
> CI Confidence Interval
>
> CNI Comfort Noise Insertion
>
> CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
>
> D/A Digital to Analogue
>
> DAT Digital Audio Tape
>
> DCR Degradation Category Rating
>
> DECi Dynamic Error Condition #i simulating a GSM radio channel with a slowly
> varying C/I representative of slow fading conditions, under ideal Frequency
> Hopping in a TU3 multipath propagation profile unless otherwise stated. (9
> different Dynamic Error Conditions were used in the AMR GSM Characterization
> Phase)
>
> DSP Digital Signal Processor
>
> DTMF Dual Tone Multi Frequency
>
> DTX Discontinuous Transmission for power consumption and interference
> reduction
>
> ECx Error Conditions at x dB C/I simulating a GSM radio channel under static
> C/I using ideal Frequency Hopping in a TU3 multipath propagation profile
>
> EFR Enhanced Full Rate
>
> ESP Product of E (Efficiency), S (Speed) and P (Percentage of Power) of the
> DSP
>
> FH Frequency Hopping
>
> FR Full Rate (also GSM FR)
>
> G.726 ITU 16/24/32kbit/s ADPCM codec
>
> G.728 ITU 16kbit/s LD-CELP codec
>
> G.729 ITU 8/6.4/11.8 kbit/s speech codec
>
> GBER Average gross bit error rate
>
> GSM Global System for Mobile communications
>
> HR Half Rate (also GSM HR)
>
> IRS Intermediate Reference System
>
> ITU-T International Telecommunication Union - Telecommunications
> Standardization Sector
>
> MNRU Modulated Noise Reference Unit
>
> Mod. IRS Modified IRS
>
> MOPS Million of Operation per Seconds
>
> MOS Mean Opinion Score
>
> MS Mobile Station
MSC Mobile Switching Center
Multiple Error Patterns were used during the Characterization tests. They are
identified by the propagation Error Conditions from which they are derived.
The following conventions are used:
> PCM Pulse Code Modulation
>
> PSTN Public Switched Telecommunications Network
>
> Q Speech-to-speech correlated noise power ratio in dB
>
> SD Standard Deviation
>
> SID Silence Descriptor
>
> SMG Special Mobile Group
>
> SNR Signal To Noise Ratio
>
> TCH-AFS Traffic CHannel Adaptive Full rate Speech
>
> TCH-AHS Traffic CHannel Adaptive Half rate Speech
>
> TDMA Time Division Multiple Access
>
> TFO Tandem Free Operation
>
> tMOPS true Million of Operations per Seconds
>
> TUx Typical Urban at multipath propagation profile at x km/s
>
> VAD Voice Activity Detector
wMOPS weighted Million of Operations per Seconds
For abbreviations not given in this clause, see GSM 01.04 [1] and 3GPP TR
21.905 [2].
# 4 General
## 4.1 Project History
Following the standardization of the EFR speech codec, the SMG2 Speech Expert
Group (SEG) and especially the SQSG (Speech Quality Strategy Group) were
tasked by SMG to study possible strategies for the continuous improvement of
the end to end performances of the speech service in GSM networks. SEG was
specifically asked to evaluate the opportunity to design a robust Full Rate
mode and/or an Enhanced Half Rate mode.
The SQSG report, presented to SMG in 1996, recommended to start a one-year
feasibility study of a Multi-Rate speech codec capable to offer at the same
time a Robust Full Rate mode and an Enhanced Half Rate mode providing wireline
quality under low propagation error conditions[^1].
The feasibility study was completed in 3Q97 and the results presented to
SMG#23. Based on the feasibility report, SMG approved a new R98 Work Item for
the development of the Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) Speech Codec.
A Qualification Phase was completed by the end of 2Q98 with the pre-selection
of 5 candidates among the 11 proposals received by SMG11.
The selection tests took place in the summer of 1998 and the results analyzed
in SMG11#7 in September 1998. SMG11 reached a consensus on one solution and
recommended to SMG to select the ENS1 solution proposed by Ericsson, Nokia and
Siemens as the basis of the AMR standard. This proposal was approved by
SMG#27.
The completion of the AMR development included a short optimization phase
restricted to the codec proponents followed by an exhaustive Verification and
GSM Characterization Phase whose results are reported in the main part of the
present document.
SMG later approved two additional Work Items for the selection of a Noise
Suppresser and the development of a Wideband extension of the AMR speech
codec. The outcome of these Work Items is not included in the present
document.
In early 1999, 3GPP approved the selection of AMR as the mandatory speech
codec. A simplified characterization in 3G Channels was completed in 2000 and
the key results included in Annex E of the present document.
## 4.2 Overview of the AMR Concept
AMR is a Multi-Rate speech codec with the ability to operate at 8 distinct bit
rates: 12,2; 10,2; 7,95; 7,4; 6,7; 5,9; 5,15 or 4,75 kbit/s. For compatibility
with legacy systems, the 12,2 and 7,4 modes are compatible versions of the GSM
EFR and IS-136 EFR speech codecs. In addition, the codec was designed to allow
seamless switching on a frame by frame basis between the different modes.
The AMR speech codec provides a high quality speech service with the
additional flexibility of the Multi-Rate approach allowing a gentle trade-off
between quality and capacity as a function of the network load. This
flexibility is equally applicable to 2G and 3G networks.
[Application to a GSM Network:]{.underline}
Unlike previous GSM speech codecs (FR, EFR, and HR) which operate at a fixed
rate and constant error protection level, the AMR speech codec offers the
possibility to adapt the error protection level to the local radio channel and
traffic conditions. A GSM system using the AMR speech codec may select the
optimum channel (half or full rate) and codec mode (speech and channel bit
rates) to deliver the best combination of speech quality and system capacity.
This flexibility provides a number of important benefits:
\- Improved speech quality in both half-rate and full-rate modes by means of
codec mode adaptation i.e. by varying the balance between speech and channel
coding for the same gross bit-rate;
\- The ability to trade speech quality and capacity smoothly and flexibly by a
combination of channel and codec mode adaptation; this can be controlled by
the network operator on a cell by cell basis;
\- Improved robustness to channel errors under marginal radio signal
conditions in full-rate mode. This increased robustness to errors and hence to
interference may be used to increase capacity by operating a tighter frequency
re-use pattern;
\- Ability to tailor AMR operation to meet the different needs of operators;
\- Potential for improved handover and power control resulting from additional
signaling transmitted rapidly in-band.
The Multi-Rate concept is adaptable not only in terms of its ability to
respond to changing radio and traffic conditions but also to be customized to
the specific needs of network operators. This allows the codec to be operated
in many ways of which three important GSM examples are:
\- Full-rate only for maximum robustness to channel errors. This additional
robustness may be used to extend the coverage in marginal signal conditions,
or to improve the capacity by using a tighter frequency re-use, assuming high
AMR MS penetration.
\- Half-rate only for maximum capacity advantage; more than 100% capacity
increase achievable relative to FR or EFR (i.e. same as existing HR).
Significant quality improvements relative to the existing HR will be given for
a large proportion of mobiles as a result of the codec mode adaptation to the
channel conditions and excellent (wireline like) speech quality in half rate
mode for low error conditions.
\- Mixed half/full rate operation allowing a trade-off between quality and
capacity enhancements according to the radio and traffic conditions and
operator priorities.
## 4.3 Functional Description in a GSM System
The AMR speech codec includes a set of fixed rate speech codecs modes for half
rate and full rate operation, providing the possibility to switch between the
different modes as a function of the propagation error conditions. Each codec
mode provides a different level of error protection through a dedicated
distribution of the available gross bit rate (22,8 kbit/s in Full Rate and
11,4 kbit/s in Half rate) between source coding and channel coding.
The actual speech rate used for each speech frame depends on the existing
radio channel conditions. A codec adaptation algorithm selects the optimized
speech rate (or codec mode) as a function of the channel quality. The most
robust codec mode is selected in bad propagation conditions. The codec mode
providing the best quality is selected in good propagation conditions. The
codec adaptation relies on channel quality measurements performed in the MS
and the network and on in band information sent over the Air Interface
together with the speech data.
The following diagram shows the main information flows over the key system
interfaces:
{width="6.191666666666666in" height="3.4680555555555554in"}
In both directions, the speech data frames are associated with a Codec Mode
Indication used by the receiving end to select the correct channel and source
decoders. In the network, the Codec Mode Indication must also be sent to the
Transcoder Units so that the correct source decoding is selected.
For the adaptation of the uplink codec mode, the network must estimate the
channel quality, identify the best codec for the existing propagation
conditions and send this information to the MS over the Air Interface (Codec
Mode Command Data field).
For the downlink codec adaptation, the MS must estimate the downlink channel
quality and send to the network a quality information, which can be mapped in
the network to a \'suggested\' codec mode.
In theory, the codec mode can be changed every speech frame. In practice,
because of the propagation delays and necessary filtering in the codec
adaptation functions, the codec mode should be adapted at a lower rate.
Each link may use a different codec mode but it is mandatory for both links to
use the same channel mode (either full rate or half rate).
The channel mode is selected by the Radio Resource management function in the
network. It is done at call set up or after a handover. The channel type can
further be changed during a call as a function of the channel conditions.
The key characteristics of the selected AMR solution are:
\- 8 codec modes in Full Rate mode including the GSM EFR and IS136 EFR.
\- 6 codec modes in Half Rate mode (also supported in Full Rate), including
the IS136 EFR.
\- Possibility to operate on a set of up to 4 codec modes selected at call set
up or handover.
\- Codec Mode Indications multiplexed with the Uplink Codec Mode Command and
Suggested Downlink Codec Mode every other frame.
\- In band signaling based on a 2 bits information field sent every other
block coded over the Air Interface.
The full set of codec modes is listed in the following table:
Table 4.3.1: AMR Speech Codec Modes
{width="2.85in" height="2.5006944444444446in"}
## 4.4 Presentation of the following sections
The following sections provide a summary of the GSM Characterization Phase
test results and background information on the codec performances analyzed
during the Verification Phase.
Clauses 5 to 9 summarize the codec subjective quality performances under
different representative environmental conditions as measured during the GSM
Characterization Phase of the project. An overview of the GSM Characterization
Phase is included in Annex A. Additional test results are also provided in
Annex C and D.
Annex E contains an overview of the AMR 3G Characterization Phase and a
summary of the corresponding subjective listening tests.
Clauses 10 to 16 provide information on the codec characteristics as reported
during the Verification Phase including:
> \- The transparence to DTMF tones,\ \- The transparence to network signaling
> tones\ \- The performances special input signals\ \- The language and talker
> dependency\ \- The frequency response\ \- The transmission delay\ \- The
> complexity
Annex B lists the reference contributions used in these sections.
# 5 Quality in Clean Speech and Error Conditions
The codec performances in clean speech and error conditions were measured in
Experiment 1a (Full Rate) and 1b (Half Rate) of the GSM Characterization phase
of testing. The clean speech performance requirements were set for the best
codec mode in each error condition as defined in the following table:
Table 5.1: Best Codec Performance Requirements in Clean Speech and Error
Conditions
* * *
C/I Full Rate\ Half Rate\ Best Codec\ Best Codec\ performance\ performance\
requirement (requirement)
No Errors EFR No Errors G.728 [12] no errors
19 dB EFR No Errors G.728 [12] no errors
16 dB EFR No Errors G.728 [12] no errors
13 dB EFR No Errors FR at 13 dB
10 dB G.728 [12] No Errors FR at 10 dB
7 dB G.728 [12] No Errors FR at 7 dB
4 dB EFR at 10 dB FR at 4 dB
* * *
A summary of the essential test results is provided below. Additional results
are included in Annex C.
The following figures provide a graphical representation (in Mean Opinion
Scores) of the AMR performances in clean speech in Full Rate mode[^2]. Figure
5.1 compares the performance recorded for the best AMR full rate codec mode
for each impairment condition, with the corresponding performance of EFR and
the related AMR project performance requirement.
{width="4.231944444444444in" height="3.0395833333333333in"}
Figure 5.1: AMR full rate/clean speech performances curve\ (Best AMR Codec vs.
EFR vs. Performance Requirements)
Figure 5.2 shows the performances recorded for all 8 AMR full rate codec modes
in clean speech and error conditions.
**Important Note:** MOS values are provided in these figures **for information
only**. Mean Opinion Scores can only be representative of the test conditions
in which they were recorded (speech material, speech processing, listening
conditions, language, and cultural background of the listening subjects...).
Listening tests performed with other conditions than those used in the AMR
Characterization phase of testing could lead to a different set of MOS
results. On the other hand, the relative performances of different codec under
tests is considered more reliable and less impacted by cultural difference
between listening subjects. Finally, it should be noted that a difference of
0.2 MOS between two test results was usually found not statistically
significant.
{width="4.197222222222222in" height="4.090277777777778in"}
Figure 5.2: Family of curves for Experiment 1a (Clean speech in Full Rate)
The AMR Characterization test results showed that the selected solution
satisfies the AMR requirements in clean speech in Full Rate Channel. The
previous results demonstrate that the combination of all 8 speech codec modes
provide a robust Full Rate speech codec down to 4 dB C/I.
The results also showed that the four highest codec modes (12.2, 10.2, 7.95
and 7.4) are equivalent to EFR in error free conditions and barely affected by
propagation errors over a wide range Channel conditions (down to 10-7 C/I).
The four lowest codec modes (6,7; 5,9; 5,15 and 4,75) are all judged in error
free conditions to be equivalent to EFR at 10 dB C/I. The three lowest codec
modes are statistically unaffected by propagation errors down to 4 dB C/I.
The following figures provide a graphical representation (in Mean Opinion
Scores) of the AMR performances in clean speech in Half Rate mode[^3]. Figure
5.3 compares the performance recorded for the best AMR half rate codec mode
for each impairment condition, with the corresponding performance of the EFR,
GSM FR and GSM HR speech codecs and the related AMR project performance
requirement.
Figure 5.3 shows the performances recorded for all 6 AMR half rate codec modes
in clean speech and error conditions.
**Important Note:** Once again, MOS values are provided in these figures **for
information only**. Mean Opinion Scores can only be representative of the test
conditions in which they were recorded (speech material, speech processing,
listening conditions, language, and cultural background of the listening
subjects...). Listening tests performed with other conditions than those used
in the AMR Characterization phase of testing could lead to a different set of
MOS results. On the other hand, the relative performances of different codec
under tests is considered more reliable and less impacted by cultural
difference between listening subjects. Finally, it should be noted that a
difference of 0.2 MOS between two test results was usually found not
statistically significant.
{width="4.391666666666667in" height="3.275in"}
Figure 5.3: AMR half rate/clean speech performances curve\ (Best AMR Codec vs.
EFR vs. GSM FR vs. GSM FR vs. Performance Requirements)
{width="4.358333333333333in" height="3.9583333333333335in"}
Figure 5.4: Family of curves for Experiment 1b (Clean Speech in Half Rate)
The AMR Characterization test results showed that the selected solution
complies with the AMR requirements in clean speech in Half Rate Channel. The
results demonstrate that the combination of all 6 speech codec modes provide a
Half Rate speech codec equivalent to the ITU T Recommendation G.728 [12] (16
kbit/s) speech codec down to 16 dB C/I. Furthermore, the results show that AMR
can provide significantly better performances than GSM FR in the full range of
test conditions, and significantly better performances than the GSM HR codec
down to 7 dB C/I.
The four highest codec modes (7,95; 7,4; 6,7 and 5,9) were found significantly
better than the GSM FR in error free conditions down to 13 dB C/I and at least
equivalent to the EFR at 10 dB C/I down to 16 dB C/I. The three highest modes
(7,95; 7,4 and 6,7) are equivalent to the error free EFR in very low error
conditions. The two lowest modes were found at least equivalent to the GSM FR
over the full range of test conditions.
# 6 Quality under background noise and Errors Conditions
The codec performances under background noise and error conditions were
measured in 6 different Experiments of the GSM Characterization phase of
testing: Exp. 3a, 3b and 3c (Full Rate) and Exp. 3d, 3e and 3f (Half Rate).
The following background noise types were included in the tests: Street Noise
at 15 dB SNR (3a and 3d), Car noise at 15 dB SNR (3b and 3e) and Office noise
at 20 dB SNR (3c and 3f). The corresponding performance requirements were set
for the best codec mode in each error condition as defined in the following
table:
Table 6.1: Best Codec Performance Requirements under background noise and
Error Conditions
* * *
C/I Full Rate\ Half Rate\ Best Codec\ Best Codec\ performance\ performance\
requirement (requirement)
No Errors EFR No Errors EFR No Errors
19 dB EFR No Errors G.729 [13]/FR No Errors
16 dB EFR No Errors G.729 [13]/FR No Errors
13 dB EFR No Errors FR at 13 dB
10 dB G.729 [13]/FR No Errors FR at 10 dB
7 dB G.729 [13]/FR No Errors FR at 7 dB
4 dB FR at 10 dB FR at 4 dB
* * *
A summary of the essential test results is provided below. Additional results
are included in Annex C.
The following figures provide a graphical representation (in Mean Opinion
Scores) of the performances recorded in Full Rate in Experiments 3a, 3b and
3c[^4].
{width="3.620138888888889in" height="2.5548611111111112in"}
Figure 6.1: AMR performance curves for Experiment 3a (Full rate with Street
Noise)
{width="3.6416666666666666in" height="2.6333333333333333in"}
Figure 6.2: AMR performance curves for Experiment 3b (Full rate with Car
Noise)
{width="3.629166666666667in" height="2.629861111111111in"}
Figure 6.3: AMR performance curves for Experiment 3c (Full rate with Office
Noise)
The AMR Characterization test results showed that the selected solution
complies with the AMR requirements under background noise in Full Rate
Channel. The results demonstrate that the combination of the 6 highest speech
codec modes provide a robust Full Rate speech codec down to 4 dB C/I.
At high C/I (down to 13 dB) the three highest codec modes (12.2, 10.2 and
7.95) were found equivalent to EFR in error free condition. All codecs modes
down to the AMR 5.9 performed better than the GSM FR across all test
conditions. A couple of codecs (6.7, 5.9) still provide at 4 dB C/I a quality
equivalent to the GSM FR at 10 dB C/I.. The two lowest modes (5.15 and 4.75)
were usually found worse than the GSM FR at 10 dB C/I across the range of test
conditions[^5].
The following figures provide a graphical representation (in Mean Opinion
Scores) of the performances recorded in Half Rate in Experiments 3d, 3e and
3f[^6].
{width="3.5416666666666665in" height="2.7in"}
Figure 6.4: AMR performance curves for Experiment 3d (Half rate with Street
Noise)
{width="3.5416666666666665in" height="2.7in"}
Figure 6.5: AMR performance curves for Experiment 3e (Half rate with Car
Noise)
{width="3.5416666666666665in" height="2.7in"}
Figure 6.6: AMR performance curves for Experiment 3f (Half rate with Office
Noise)
These results show that the highest AMR modes perform well under background
noise conditions in half rate channel down to 16 dB C/I. In these conditions,
the AMR performances are almost equivalent to EFR and significantly better
than the GSM FR or GSM HR in the same test conditions.
None of the codec modes is able to meet the initial project requirement at 10
dB C/I. All codec modes are found worse than the target FR at 10 dB C/I in
these conditions. This is the only critical failure recorded in the
characterization phase.
At 7 dB C/I and below the two lowest codec modes match or exceed the
performances of the GSM FR and GSM HR.
# 7 Performances in Tandeming and with variation of the input speech level
Experiment 2 and Experiment 6 of the GSM Characterization Test plan were
intended to evaluate the performances of the AMR Codec modes in self-tandeming
and cross-tandeming and with variation of the input speech level.
An overview of the corresponding results is provided in the following figures:
{width="5.782638888888889in" height="2.6534722222222222in"}
Figure 7.1: Experiment 2 Test Results (cross-codec tandeming)
{width="4.019444444444445in" height="2.4298611111111112in"}
Figure 7.2: AMR Codec Tandeming performances with existing GSM Codecs
{width="6.158333333333333in" height="2.6333333333333333in"}
Figure 7.3: Combined results for Experiment 6 (Influence of input speech level
and Tandeming)
{width="4.927083333333333in" height="2.7381944444444444in"}
Figure 7.4: Combined results for Experiment 6 (Influence of input speech level
and Tandeming) ordered by impairment type
The key performances demonstrated by Experiment 2 test results are:
\- Tandeming with the clean speech error free 12.2 and 10.2 modes of AMR do
not significantly degrade the single encoding performances of any of the AMR
codec or existing GSM codecs.
\- Any other tandeming configuration involving any two other AMR codecs
introduce a significant degradation when compared to the single encoding
performances of any of the two codecs involved in the tandem configuration.
This degradation is however less significant than a tandem configuration
involving either the GSM FR or the GSM HR.
\- All tandeming configurations between two AMR speech codecs (except the
worst configuration 5.15-4.75) are significantly better than the GSM FR or GSM
HR in Tandem.
Experiment 6 test results show that the different AMR speech codec were not
significantly more impacted by the input speech level than EFR. The highest
codec modes (12.2 down to 7.4) were generally found equivalent for each
impairment type (with variation of the input level or in tandem). The lowest
codec modes were always found as least as good as the GSM FR.
In tandem conditions, the highest modes (down to 7.4 kbit/s) do not present a
significant degradation compare to the single encoding condition. The lowest
modes are at least as good as the GSM FR in tandeming and always better than
the GSM HR.
# 8 Performances with the Codec Adaptation turned on
Experiments 4a (Full Rate) and 4b (Half Rate) of the GSM Characterization
phase of testing were designed to evaluate the AMR performances with the
adaptation turned on in long dynamic C/I profiles representative of
operational propagation conditions. Multiple C/I profile were generated
simulating different behavior of the radio channel and different slow fading
effects. One profile was used to generate multiple Error Patterns
representative of different Frequency Hopping operation mode: Ideal frequency
hopping, non-ideal frequency hopping limited to 4 frequencies and no frequency
hoping. Three different sets of codec modes were used in these Experiments.
They are defined in the following table:
Table 8.1: Sets of codec modes for Experiment 4a and 4b
* * *
            Codec Modes for\        Codec Modes for Experiment 4b
            Experiment 4a
Set #1 12.2, 7.95, 5.9 **7.95, 6.7, 5.9, 5.15**
Set #2 12.2, 7.95 **6.7, 5.9, 4.75**
Set #3 12.2, 7.40, 6.7, 5.15 **7.40, 5.15**
* * *
The thresholds and Hysteresis used for the codec adaptation in the different
configurations are listed in the following table:
Table 8.2: Codec Mode Adaptation thresholds and Hysteresis used in Experiment
4a and 4b
* * *
[]{.underline} Adaptation Thresholds and Hysteresis for Experiment 4a  
[]{.underline} Threshold 1 Hysteresis 1 Threshold 2 Hysteresis 2 Threshold 3
Hysteresis 3 Set #1 11,5 dB 2,0 dB 6,5 dB 2,0 dB  
Set #2 11,5 dB 2,0 dB  
Set #3 11,5 dB 2,0 dB 7,0 dB 2,0 dB 5,5 dB 2,0 dB
* * *
* * *
[]{.underline} **[Adaptation Thresholds and Hysteresis for Experiment
4b]{.underline}**  
[]{.underline} Threshold 1 Hysteresis 1 Threshold 2 Hysteresis 2 Threshold 3
Hysteresis 3 Set #1 15,0 dB 2,0 dB 12,5 dB 2,5 dB 11,0 dB 2,0 dB Set #2 12,5
dB 2,0 dB 11,0 dB 2,0 dB  
Set #3 13,5 dB 2,0 dB
* * *
The results of Experiments 4a and4b are presented in the following figures:
{width="6.107638888888889in" height="2.5701388888888888in"}
Figure 8.1: Experiment 4a Test Results (Dynamic Error conditions in Full Rate)
{width="6.149305555555555in" height="2.5701388888888888in"}
Figure 8.2: Experiment 4b Test Results (Dynamic Error conditions in Half Rate)
The results of Experiments 4a and 4b can be summarized as follows:
\- In Full Rate, the three tested AMR codec sets were found significantly
better than EFR in ideal or non-ideal frequency hopping cases. In some cases,
the benefit was higher than 1 point MOS.
\- In Half Rate, the three codec sets were found significantly better than the
GSM FR codec (tested at 3 dB or 6 dB lower average C/I) in most cases with
ideal or non-ideal frequency hopping activated.
\- The performances with non-ideal frequency hopping were usually found
equivalent to the performances with ideal frequency hopping for the AMR codec.
The EFR codec seemed slightly more impacted in this case.
\- No significant improvement compared to the references was identified in
non-frequency hopping cases and low mobile speed in either full rate or half
rate channels. The performances of all codecs without frequency hopping
activated were always found significantly worse than their performances when
ideal or non-ideal frequency hopping was used.
\- No significant difference was found when DTX was activated in the return
link in either full rate or half rate mode.
\- There was no significant difference between the three codec sets used in
full rate or half rate modes, even when the set was limited to two codec
modes.
# 9 VAD/DTX Performances
The objective of Experiment 7 of the GSM characterization test plan was to
evaluate the degradation induced by the activation of the voice activity
detection and discontinuous transmission on the link under test[^7]. The
experiment was divided in 4 sub-experiments to separately test the effect on
the Full Rate and Half Rate channel operation and then the performances of
each VAD algorithm (ENS solution and Motorola solution). The tests used a
7-point Comparison Category Rating to amplify any possible degradation. They
consisted in comparing a speech sample for which the VAD/DTX has been applied
with the same speech sample without VAD/DTX but in the same channel
error/impairment condition. The 7-point scale (CMOS=-3 to +3) corresponded to
quality degradation defined as: \'Much worse\', \'Worse\', \'Slightly worse\',
\'About the same\', \'Slightly better\', \'Better\' and \'Much better\'.
The following impairment type were included in each experiment and tested for
multiple error conditions (4, 10 and 16 dB C/I in Full Rate, 7, 13 and 19 dB
in Half Rate):
\- Single encoding in clean speech at nominal input level;
\- Single encoding in clean speech 10 dB below the nominal input level;
\- Single encoding in clean speech 10 dB above the nominal input;
\- Single encoding in street noise at 15 dB SNR;
\- Tandeming in street noise at 15 dB;
\- Single encoding in car noise at 15 dB;
\- Single encoding in office noise at 20.
The tests were performed with the adaptation turned on, using the sets of
codec modes #1 of table 6.1. Nevertheless, a static C/I profile was used for
all test conditions involving propagation errors.
The tests also included a set of references using the EFR codec with the
original EFR VAD and the new AMR VAD algorithms in a subset of the impairment
conditions, and the FR codec in clean speech with the original FR VAD. A null
condition was also included in the test.
All test results with one exception showed that the activation of the AMR
VAD/DTX do not introduce any significant degradation to the performances of
AMR. The difference between the scores obtained by the different conditions
were below their respective 95% confidence interval indicating that the
degradation is not significantly different for either impairment type. The
same results were found for both VAD solutions. A direct comparison between
the two VAD options in paired experiments (Experiments 7a and 7c in Full Rate
and Experiments 7b and 7d in Half Rate) did not allow to differentiate their
respective performances.
The only condition showing a significantly higher degradation level in all
tests performed was for the GSM FR codec with its own VAD algorithm. Even
then, the score obtained by the FR/VAD codec association was not as bad as a
being qualified as \'Slightly worse\' (first degradation level in the 7-point
CMOS scale). It was in the order of the degradation of a MNRU at 30 dB S/N
compared with the original speech sample.
# 10 Performances with DTMF tones
Twelve experiments were performed during the verification phase to evaluate
the transparency of the AMR codec modes to DTMF tones. The corresponding test
conditions are listed in Table 10.1. The experiments were limited to error
free conditions only.
The frequency deviation was set for the duration of a digit, and was randomly
chosen between -1.5 and +1.5%. The range of tone levels was chosen to avoid
clipping in the digital domain and to exceed the minimum acceptable input
level for the Linemaster unit used for the detection of DTMF tones.
A set of ten codecs was tested in each experiment, comprising the eight AMR
modes, the full-rate GSM speech codec and the A-law codecs alone (direct
condition).
Table 10.1: Experimental conditions for the evaluation of the AMR Codecs
Transparency to DTMF Tones
+------------+------------------+------------------+-------+----------------+-----------+ | Experiment | Low tone | High tone | Twist | Digit duration | Frequency | | | | | | | | | | level (see note) | level (see note) | | | deviation | +------------+------------------+------------------+-------+----------------+-----------+ | 1 | -6 dBm | -6 dBm | 0 dB | 50 ms | none | +------------+------------------+------------------+-------+----------------+-----------+ | 2 | -16 dBm | -16 dBm | 0 dB | 50 ms | none | +------------+------------------+------------------+-------+----------------+-----------+ | 3 | -26 dBm | -26 dBm | 0 dB | 50 ms | none | +------------+------------------+------------------+-------+----------------+-----------+ | 4 | -16 dBm | -16 dBm | 0 dB | 50 ms | +/- 1.5% | +------------+------------------+------------------+-------+----------------+-----------+ | 5 | -19 dBm | -13 dBm | -6 dB | 50 ms | none | +------------+------------------+------------------+-------+----------------+-----------+ | 6 | -13 dBm | -19 dBm | 6 dB | 50 ms | none | +------------+------------------+------------------+-------+----------------+-----------+ | 7 | -6 dBm | -6 dBm | 0 dB | 80 ms | none | +------------+------------------+------------------+-------+----------------+-----------+ | 8 | -16 dBm | -16 dBm | 0 dB | 80 ms | none | +------------+------------------+------------------+-------+----------------+-----------+ | 9 | -26 dBm | -26 dBm | 0 dB | 80 ms | none | +------------+------------------+------------------+-------+----------------+-----------+ | 10 | -16 dBm | -16 dBm | 0 dB | 80 ms | +/- 1.5% | +------------+------------------+------------------+-------+----------------+-----------+ | 11 | -19 dBm | -13 dBm | -6 dB | 80 ms | none | +------------+------------------+------------------+-------+----------------+-----------+ | 12 | -13 dBm | -19 dBm | 6 dB | 80 ms | none | +------------+------------------+------------------+-------+----------------+-----------+
NOTE: The levels are given as measured at the input to the DTMF detector,
however, since the DAC is calibrated according to ITU-T Rec. G.711, 0dBm in
the analogue section is equivalent to ‑6.15dBov in the digital section.
**[Test sequences:]{.underline}**
For each experiment, 20 test sequences were processed per codec under test.
Each test sequence was produced by the DTMF generator, and comprised a header
of _x_ ms followed by each of the 16 DTMF digits as defined in\ ITU-T
Recommendation Q.23 [16]. The gap between adjacent DTMF digits was equal to
the duration of the digits (see Table 1). The length of the header in sequence
number _n_ , was set to
> _x_ =200+_n_ milliseconds; where _n_ =0..19.
This approach was taken to exercise the speech codecs over the complete range
of possible phase relationships between the start of a DTMF digit and a speech
codec frame (20ms in length). Thus each codec mode was subjected to 320
separate digits per experiment.
**[Test Procedure:]{.underline}**
For each test sequence, the number of digits undetected by the DTMF detector
was recorded. No attempt to identify misdetected digits was made, although
there were no out of sequence digits observed.
**[Results:]{.underline}**
The percentage of undetected digits measured for each codec mode is given in
Table 10.2a for Experiments 1 to 6 (50ms digits), and in Table 10.2b for
Experiments 7 to 12 (80ms digits).
Table 10.2a: Percentage of DTMF digits undetected when passed through
different codecs with 50ms DTMF digits. The mean value is calculated over all
six experiments.
* * *
Codec mode Rate (kbit/s) Exp. 1 Exp. 2 Exp. 3 Exp. 4 Exp. 5 Exp. 6 Mean AMR
mode 0 4.75 35.3% 40.9% 38.1% 41.3% 50.0% 43.8% 41.6% AMR mode 1 5.15 32.8%
38.4% 34.7% 38.8% 52.5% 37.5% 39.1% AMR mode 2 5.90 19.7% 20.3% 25.0% 25.3%
37.8% 19.1% 24.5% AMR mode 3 6.70 7.8% 7.8% 10.6% 8.8% 23.4% 6.3% 10.8% AMR
mode 4 7.40 3.8% 5.0% 4.7% 4.1% 13.1% 2.2% 5.5% AMR mode 5 7.95 0.3% 1.3% 1.3%
2.2% 9.7% 0.6% 2.6% AMR mode 6 10.20 0.0% 0.0% 0.3% 0.0% 0.3% 0.0% 0.1% AMR
mode 7 12.20 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% FR GSM 13.00 0.0% 0.0% 0.3%
0.0% 0.6% 0.0% 0.2% Direct (A-law) - 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
* * *
Table 10.2b: Percentage of DTMF digits undetected when passed through
different codecs with 80ms DTMF digits. The mean value is calculated over all
six experiments.
* * *
Codec mode Rate (kbit/s) Exp. 7 Exp. 8 Exp. 9 Exp. 10 Exp. 11 Exp. 12 Mean AMR
mode 0 4.75 21.3% 24.7% 27.5% 26.9% 35.9% 26.6% 27.1% AMR mode 1 5.15 18.1%
21.3% 25.9% 22.8% 33.4% 28.1% 24.9% AMR mode 2 5.90 8.8% 11.6% 11.6% 7.8%
24.1% 9.4% 12.2% AMR mode 3 6.70 1.6% 1.6% 2.5% 2.5% 5.9% 3.8% 3.0% AMR mode 4
7.40 0.0% 0.0% 0.3% 0.6% 2.2% 0.3% 0.6% AMR mode 5 7.95 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
1.9% 0.3% 0.4% AMR mode 6 10.20 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% AMR mode 7
12.20 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% FR GSM 13.00 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
0.0% 0.0% Direct (A-law) - 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
* * *
[]{.underline}
**[Further observations:]{.underline}**
Inspection of the results for the AMR speech codecs reveals notably worse
performance for DTMF signals generated with negative twist. To eliminate the
DTMF detector as the cause of this effect, subsets of Experiments 5 and 6 were
repeated using a proprietary network based DTMF detection algorithm. These
additional experiments also showed substantially worse performance in the
presence of negative twist.
An analysis of the processed files revealed that for DTMF digits generated
with negative or zero twist, the AMR speech codecs have a tendency to add
additional negative twist to the signal. This effect is more pronounced for
the lower rate speech codecs.
**[Conclusions:]{.underline}**
The results for the full-rate GSM speech codec appear to be consistent with
results from previous tests. No detection errors were measured for the
reference A-law condition.
For 50ms DTMF digits, the 10,2 and 12,2 kbit/s AMR modes appear to be
essentially transparent to DTMF signals under error free conditions, whereas
the lower rate modes do not appear to be transparent.
For 80ms DTMF digits the 7,4, 7,95, 10,2 and 12,2 kbit/s modes appear to be
essentially transparent to DTMF signals under error free conditions, whereas
the lower rate modes do not appear to be transparent.
The AMR codecs seem to have a tendency to add negative twist to DMTF signals,
and are therefore less transparent to digits with negative twist than positive
twist. It is noted that DTMF signals are often generated by PSTN telephones
with negative twist, e.g. -2dB, to account for the characteristics of the
local loop.
# 11 Transparency to Signaling tones
The transparency to network signaling tones was tested for all 8 codec modes
using typical French and German signaling tones.
**[French Signaling Tones]{.underline}**
Five different types of French network signaling tones were tested: Two
different dial tones, one ringing tone, a busy tone and a special information
tone. The description of the different tones is given below:
\- Continuous DIAL TONE number 1 at 440 Hz, 10s duration;
\- Continuous DIAL TONE number 2 at 330+440 Hz, 10s duration;
\- RINGING TONE at 440 Hz with 1.5--3.5s form factor and a total signal
duration of 12.5s;
\- BUSY TONE at 440Hz with 0.5--0.5s form factor and a total signal duration
of 12.5s;
\- SPECIAL INFORMATION TONE at 950/1400/1800 Hz and duration of (3×0.3--
2x0.03)--1.0s and a total signal duration of 12.5 s.
The tone amplitude was set to -10 dBm0.
**[German Signaling Tones]{.underline}**
Six different types of German network signaling tones were tested: Two dial
tones, two ringing tones, a busy tone and a special information tone. The
description of the different tones is given below.
\- Continuous DIAL TONE number 1 at 425 Hz, 15s duration;
\- Continuous DIAL TONE number 2 at 450 Hz, 15s duration;
\- RINGING TONE number 1 at 425 Hz with 0.25--4.0--1.0--4.0--1.0--4.75s form
factor, 15s total duration;
\- RINGING TONE number 2 at 450 Hz with 0.25--4.0--1.0--4.0--1.0--4.75s form
factor, 15s total duration;
\- BUSY TONE at 425Hz with 0.48--0.48s form factor and a total duration of
10s;
\- SPECIAL INFORMATION TONE at 950/1400/1800 Hz and 3×0.33--1.0s form factor
and a total duration of 10s.
The tone amplitude was set to -10 dBm0.
Additionally, a set of signaling tones was generated at --15 dBm0, which is
the lowest level recommended in\ ITU-T Recommendation E.180 [14].
**[Test conditions]{.underline}**
The signaling tones at a level of -10 dBm0 were tested under clean error
conditions with no adaptation activated and fixing the codec mode to the 8
different possible modes. The signaling tones were also tested with adaptation
on, under static errors with C/I = 7 dB.
This was tested for DTX off and DTX on.
The German signaling tones at a level of -15 dBm0 were only tested under clear
channel conditions with DTX activated. This was done to ensure that the
artifact identified for the FR speech codec with low level signaling tones and
DTX did not appear in the case of AMR.
**[Test results]{.underline}**
The testing has been performed by informal listening involving trained
listeners, their main concern being to recognize the signaling tones.
The test results can be summarized as follows:
1) No significant difference was perceived between the tests performed with
DTX ON and those performed with DTX OFF.
2) For the error free conditions: the decoded tones were always easily
recognized. Yet the perceived quality was found to decrease when the codec
rate decreases and for the two lowest bit rates (4.75 and 5.15) the quality
was rather poor.
3) In presence of channel errors in Half Rate mode, the result was rather poor
for the whole set of tones. In Full Rate mode, the quality was found
acceptable with a slight degradation for the two dial tones. Note that the
effect of errors was perceived for both channel modes, but more limited and
clustered in some parts of the signal in Full Rate mode.
**[Conclusion]{.underline}**
Although the quality of network signaling tones is audibly decreasing for
lower bit rates and especially in presence of channel errors in Half Rate
mode, the signaling tones were always easily recognized under all testing
conditions. Additionally, DTX activation did not create any degradation of the
transparency of the AMR codec towards signaling tones. This conclusion is
still valid for low amplitude signaling tones.
# 12 Performances with special input signals
The behavior of the AMR speech codec in presence of multiple \"special input
signals\" was tested during the Verification Phase. These tests included:
\- Overload conditions;
\- Additional background Noises and Talkers;
\- Music signals;
\- Idle channel behavior.
In informal expert listening tests, covering a wide range of overload levels
and error conditions, there was no evidence to suggest that the AMR speech
channel exhibits any significant problems, such as gross instability, in the
presence of overload signals.
Similarly, tests in presence of multiple types of background noises or with a
higher number of talkers did not exhibit any problem with any of the AMR
speech codec modes.
The tests in presence of Music indicated that the AMR speech codec did not
exhibit any problem when compared to the behavior of other well-known speech
codecs (EFR, IS-641, G.729 [13]).
Finally, no significant problem was identified when testing the codec with
signals at very low signal levels representative of an idle channel.
# 13 Language Dependency
The selection and characterization tests were performed by a large number of
laboratories worldwide using different languages (see Annex A). Tests were
performed in:
> English (US and UK), French, German, Italian, Mandarin, Spanish
The results reported by the different laboratories were consistent. No
significant quality difference was identified between the results reported by
the different listening laboratories for the different AMR Codec Modes.
# 14 Transmission Delay
The transmission delay of a GSM communication using AMR has been evaluated
using the same method as for the previous GSM speech codecs [2, 3 and 4]. The
reference system delay distribution for the downlink and uplink directions are
provided in figures 14.1 and 14.2 respectively. The speech transcoders are
assumed to be remote located from the BTS (16 kbit/s or 8 kbit/s sub-
multiplexing on the Abis and Ater Interfaces).
{width="7.3805555555555555in" height="0.8625in"}
Figure 14.1: Reference Downlink delay distribution
{width="6.781944444444444in" height="0.8534722222222222in"}
Figure 14.2: Reference Uplink delay distribution
The definition of the different delay parameters is given in the following
table. The table also provides the value used for the parameter when not
dependent of the type of speech codec or sub-multiplexing scheme over the Abis
and Ater interfaces.
T _abisd_ Time required to transmit the minimum number of speech data bits
over the downlink Abis interface to start encoding a radio speech frame.
Depends on the speech codec mode, the TRAU frame format and the Abis/Ater sub-
multiplexing scheme. Note that most TRAU frame synchronization bits can
ideally be transmitted by anticipation and are usually not included in this
parameter.
T _abisu_ Time required to transmit the minimum number of speech data bits
over the uplink Abis interface to start decoding a speech frame. Depends on
the speech codec mode, the TRAU frame format and the Abis/Ater sub-
multiplexing scheme. Note that the TRAU frame synchronization bits can ideally
be transmitted by anticipation and are usually not included in this parameter.
T _a/d_ Delay in the analogue to digital converter in the uplink
(implementation dependent). Set to 1ms [4].
T _bsc_ Switching delay in the BSC (implementation dependent). Set to 0.5ms [2
and 4].
T _buff_ Buffering time required for the time alignment procedure for the in-
band control of the remote transcoder. Set to 1.25 ms [2 and 4].
T _d/a_ Delay in the digital to analogue converter in the downlink
(implementation dependent). Set to 1ms [2 and 4].
T _echo_ Delay induced by the echo canceller (implementation dependent). Set
to 1ms [2 and 4].
T _encode_ : Processing delay required to perform the channel encoding
(implementation dependent). Depends on the channel coding complexity of each
codec mode.
T _msc_ Switching delay in the MSC (implementation dependent). Set to 0.5ms [2
and 4].
T _proc_ Processing delay required to perform the speech decoding
(implementation dependent). Depends on the speech decoding complexity of each
codec mode.
T _rftx_ Time required for the transmission of a speech frame over the air
interface. Derived from the radio framing structure and the interleaving
scheme. Worst case is 37.5 ms in Full Rate mode and 32.5 ms in Half Rate mode
[2 and 4].
T _rxproc_ Processing delay required to perform the channel equalization, the
channel decoding and SID-frame detection (implementation dependent). The
channel decoding depends on the codec mode. The channel equalization part was
set to 6.84 ms in Full Rate mode and 3.5 ms in Half Rate mode [4].
T _sample_ Duration of the segment of PCM speech samples operated on by the
speech transcoder: 25 ms in all cases corresponding to 20 ms for the processed
speech frame and 5 ms of look ahead.
T _sps_ Worst case processing delay required by the downlink speech encoder
before an encoded bit can be sent over the Ater/Abis interface taking into
account the speed on the Ater/Abis interface (implementation dependent).
Depends on the speech coding complexity of each codec mode and on the sub-
multiplexing rate on the Ater/Abis interface. Because of the priority given to
the decoding, T _proc_ is also added to the overall downlink transmission
delay.
T _transc_ MS speech encoder processing delay, from input of the last PCM
sample to output of the final encoded bit (implementation dependent). For the
evaluation of the transmission delay, it was assumed that the speech decoding
has a higher priority than the speech encoding, i.e. this delay is
artificially increased by the speech decoding delay.
Margin Implementation dependent margins in the different system components.
Set as follows:\ MSC Margin: 0.5 ms [2 and 4]\ BSC Margin: 0.5 ms [2 and 4]\
BTS Margin: 0.45 ms downlink, 0.3 ms uplink [2 and 4]\ MS Margin: 2 ms in Full
Rate, 1.9 ms in Half Rate [2 and 4].
The processing delays were estimated using complexity figures for each codec
mode. In addition, to take into account the dependence on the DSP
implementation, the computation was based on the same methodology used for the
previous GSM speech codecs [4].
The DSPs running the speech and channel codec are modeled with the 3 following
parameters:
**\- E** represents the DSP Efficiency. This corresponds to the ratio
tMOPS/wMOPS of the codec implementation on the DSP.
**\- S** represents for the speed of the DSP: Maximum Number of Operations
that the DSP can run in 1 second. This number is expressed in MOPS.
**\- P** represents the percentage of DSP processing power assigned to the
codec.
The processing delay of a task of complexity X (in wMOPS) can then be computed
using the equation:
{width="0.69375in" height="0.4305555555555556in"} ms
For compatibility reasons, the same ESP parameter used for the EFR processing
delays computation [4] was used: ESP=25[^8].
The following tables provide the overall transmission delay parameters for
each codec mode. The design objective for the Algorithmic Round Trip
Transmission Delay (ARTD = 2T _sample_ \+ 2T _rftx_ \+ T _abisu_ \+ T _abisd_)
was set to the EFR ARTD increased by 10 ms in Full Rate mode, and the GSM HR
ARTD increased by 10 ms in Half Rate mode.
Tables 14.1 and 14.2 define the parameters impacting the computation of the
transmission delays over the Abis/Ater interfaces (T _abisu_ and T _abisd_)
for the 16 kbit/s and 8kbit/s sub-multiplexing schemes respectively. The
definition of different parameters is provided below. They are derived from
the AMR TRAU frame format provided in [5 and 6].
> **Min # of bits:** Minimum number of speech bits required to start the next
> operation (speech decoding in uplink or channel encoding in downlink).
>
> **Sync. bits:** Additional synchronization bits in the TRAU frame
> (synchronization header not included) before reaching the last required bit.
>
> **Min # Data:** Rank of the last required bit in the TRAU frame.
>
> **# Anticip.:** Number of bits that can be sent by anticipation.
>
> **# Requir.:** Resulting number of bits that must be received (Min #Data - #
> Anticip.).
Table 14.1: Tabisu (ms) and Tabisd (ms) computation tables for the 16 kbit/s
sub-multiplexing scheme
{width="3.3097222222222222in" height="1.4097222222222223in"} {width="2.95in"
height="1.4097222222222223in"}
Table 14.2: Tabisu (ms) and Tabisd (ms) computation tables for the 8 kbit/s
sub-multiplexing scheme
{width="3.3097222222222222in" height="1.1298611111111112in"} {width="2.95in"
height="1.1298611111111112in"}
Tables 14.3 and 14.4 provide the overall Uplink and Downlink transmission
delay for the different Full Rate codec modes using a 16 kbit/s sub-
multiplexing scheme.
Tables 14.5 and 14.6 provide the overall Uplink and Downlink transmission
delay for the different Half Rate codec modes using a 16 kbit/s sub-
multiplexing scheme.
Tables 14.7 and 14.8 provide the overall Uplink and Downlink transmission
delay for the different Half Rate codec modes using an 8 kbit/s sub-
multiplexing scheme.
Table 14.3: Uplink Transmission Delay in Full Rate Mode (in ms and 16 kbit/s
sub-multiplexing scheme)
{width="5.529861111111111in" height="2.5347222222222223in"}
Table 14.4: Downlink Transmission Delay in Full Rate Mode (in ms and 16 kbit/s
sub-multiplexing scheme)
{width="5.529861111111111in" height="2.954861111111111in"}
Table 14.5: Uplink Transmission Delay in Half Rate Mode (in ms and 16 kbit/s
sub-multiplexing scheme)
{width="5.1in" height="2.5347222222222223in"}
Table 14.6: Downlink Transmission Delay in Half Rate Mode (in ms and 16 kbit/s
sub-multiplexing scheme)
{width="5.1in" height="2.954861111111111in"}
Table 14.7: Uplink Transmission Delay in Half Rate Mode (in ms and 8 kbit/s
sub-multiplexing scheme)
{width="5.1in" height="2.5347222222222223in"}
Table 14.8: Downlink Transmission Delay inHalf Rate Mode\ (in ms in 8 kbit/s
sub-multiplexing scheme)
{width="5.1in" height="2.954861111111111in"}
# 15 Frequency Response
NOTE: The frequency response is essentially given as a piece of additional
information. It should not be used to qualify the codec performances in terms
of perceived quality or DTMF transparency.
The frequency response of the AMR codec was evaluated by computing the
logarithmic gain of the frequency response of each codec mode, according to
the following equation:
{width="2.7222222222222223in" height="0.4722222222222222in"}
where inp(k) and out(k) are the input (original) and output (processed)
signals and M is the total number of processed samples.
The frequency response was computed for all 8 codec modes (12.2, 10.2, 7.95,
7.4, 6.7, 5.9, 5.15 and 4.75 kbit/s), in error-free condition, with DTX
disabled. Tone signals were generated and processed in the range 50-3998 Hz
with a frequency step of 21 Hz. Each tone lasted 8 seconds at a level of --26
dBovl. In order to discard potential transition effects of the codec, the
first 512 samples (64 ms at fc=8 kHz) of the input and output signals were not
taken into account in the computation.
Figure 15.1 provides the frequency responses measured for the 8 AMR speech
codecs. Table 15.1 lists the attenuation measured for each codec at the edges
of the telephone bandwidth. The usual definition of 3-dB bandwidth can be
applied to the 4 highest bit-rates leading to a bandwidth equal or wider than
the telephone band. Some limitations appear for the 4 lower bit-rates.
**[Input Level dependency:]{.underline}**
The same computation was repeated with different input levels: -16 dBovl and
--36 dBovl to check the dependency of the frequency response to the input
signal level. Similar curves were found in both curves.
**[Transition behavior:]{.underline}**
In order to check if the potential transition behavior of the codec influences
the shape of the curves, the computations were repeated without discarding the
first 512 samples and using tones with a shorter length (500 ms). Once again,
very similar curves were found in these conditions.
{width="5.710416666666666in" height="3.297222222222222in"}
Figure 15.1: AMR Speech Codec Frequency Responses
Table 15.1: Attenuation at the telephone band limits
* * *
AMR Codec\ Attenuation\ Attenuation\ Modes\ @ freq=302 Hz\ @ freq=3410 Hz\
[kbit/s] [dB] [dB]
12.2 -0.28 -0.76
10.2 -0.18 -1.02
7.95 -0.11 -3.87
7.4 -0.23 -3.32
6.7 -0.32 -4.66
5.9 -0.45 -7.38
5.15 -0.30 -8.65
4.75 -0.24 -8.11
* * *
# 16 Complexity
The AMR speech codec modes complexity were evaluated using the methodology
previously agreed for the standardization of the GSM HR and GSM EFR speech
codec.
For each codec mode, the complexity is characterized by the following items:
\- Number of cycles;
\- Data memory size;
\- Program memory size.
The actual values for these items will eventually depend on the final DSP
implementation. The methodology adopted for the standardization of previous
GSM speech codecs provides a way to overcome this difficulty.
In this methodology, the speech and channel coding functions are coded using a
set of basic arithmetic operations. Each operation is allocated a weight
representative of the number of instruction cycles required to perform that
operation on a typical DSP device. The Theoretical Worst Case complexity
(wMOPS) is then computed by a detailed counting of the worst case number of
basic operations required to process a speech frame.
The wMOPS figure quoted is a weighted sum of all operations required to
perform the speech and/or channel coding.
Note that in the course of the codec selection, the Worst Observed Frame
complexity was also measured by recording the worst case complexity figure
over the full set of speech samples used for the selection of the AMR codec.
In the case of AMR, the complexity was further divided in the following items:
\- Speech coding complexity in terms of wMOPS, RAM, ROM Tables and Program
ROM;
\- Full Rate and Half Rate channel complexity in terms of wMOPS, RAM, ROM
Tables and Program ROM.
The separation of the speech and channel complexity was motivated by the fact
that these functions were generally handled by different system components in
the network (speech transcoding functions in the TRAU and channel
coding/decoding in the BTS).
Table 16.1 presents the Theoretical Worst Case (TWC) complexity (wMOPS) for
the different AMR speech codecs in addition to the Worst Observed Frame (WOF)
reported during the selection phase.
Tables 16.2 and 16.2 provide the same parameters for the Full Rate and Half
Rate channel codecs.
Table 16.4, 16.5 and 16.6 provide the RAM, ROM Tables and Program ROM
complexity figures for the different speech and channel codecs.
For reference, the corresponding AMR project objectives are also provided in
these tables.
Table 16.1: AMR Speech Codec Theoretical Worst Case Complexity (in wMOPS)
* * *
Mode 12.2 10.2 7.95 7.4 6.7 5.9 5.15 4.75 TWC WOF  
Speech encoder 14.05 13.66 14.18 13.03 14.03 11.35 9.65 11.63 14.18 13.14  
Speech decoder 2.31 2.33 2.53 2.24 2.49 2.57 2.57 2.57 2.57 2.19 **EFR**
**Objective**  
Total Speech 16.36 15.99 16.71 15.27 16.52 13.92 12.22 14.20 16.75 15.33 15.21
24 \~ 1.6 EFR
* * *
Table 16.2: AMR Full Rate Channel Codec Theoretical Worst Case Complexity (in
wMOPS)
* * *
Mode 12.2 10.2 7.95 7.4 6.7 5.9 5.15 4.75  
Constraint Length 5 5 7 5 5 7 5 7 TWC WOF  
FR Channel Coder 0.34 0.36 0.31 0.29 0.32 0.3 0.29 0.29 0.36 0.33  
FR Channel Decoder 2.42 2.18 4.85 1.66 1.61 3.85 1.34 3.2 4.85 4.45 **HR**
**Objective**  
Total Channel FR 2.76 2.54 5.16 1.95 1.93 4.15 1.63 3.49 5.21 4.78 2.69 5.7 \~
2.1 HR
* * *
Table 16.3: AMR Half Rate Channel Codec Theoretical Worst Case Complexity (in
wMOPS)
* * *
Mode 7.95 7.4 6.7 5.9 5.15 4.75  
Constraint Length 5 5 5 5 5 7 TWC WOF  
HR Channel Coder 0.19 0.19 0.18 0.17 0.18 0.17 0.19 0.19  
HR Channel Decoder 1.38 1.35 1.25 1.18 1.14 2.66 2.66 2.64 **HR**
**Objective**  
Total Channel HR 1.57 1.54 1.43 1.35 1.32 2.83 2.85 2.83 2.69 3 \~ 1.1 HR
* * *
Table 16.4: AMR Codec RAM Requirements (in 16 bits words)
* * *
                             Static   Dynamic   Total
Speech encoder 1429 3039 4468  
Speech decoder 812 946 1758 **EFR** **Objective**  
Total speech 2241 3039 5280 4711 10000 \~ 2.1 EFR Channel encoder FR 271 1843
2114  
Channel decoder FR 280 1915 2195 **HR** **Objective**  
Total channel FR 551 1915 2466 3154 6600 \~ 2.1 HR Channel encoder HR 385 1317
1702  
Channel decoder HR 394 1420 1814 **HR** **Objective**  
Total channel HR 779 1420 2199 3154 3500 \~ 1.1 HR Channel Meas and Control
107 66 173
* * *
Table 16.5: AMR Codec ROM Tables Requirements (in 16 bits words)
* * *
                             ROM     EFR      Objective
Speech 14571 5267 17000 \~ 3.2 EFR **HR** **Objective**  
Channel 5049 900 5000 \~ 5.6 HR Channel Meas and Control 187  
Total 19807
* * *
Table 16.5: AMR Codec Program ROM (in number of operators)
* * *
                             \# of operators
Speech 4851 Channel 1279 Channel Meas and Control 63 Total 6193
* * *
**[Summary of the complexity results:]{.underline}**
The AMR complexity parameters appear to be well within the initial constraints
of the project.
The AMR speech codec complexity is slightly higher than the EFR complexity (in
wMOPS and RAM), but the complete set of eight codecs requires 3 times more ROM
than the EFR.
The channel codec complexity matches the initial project objectives (twice the
HR channel codec complexity in Full Rate and once the HR channel codec
complexity in Half Rate). The ROM required for the full set of codecs
represents around 5 times the ROM required by the HR channel codec.
###### ### Annex A: AMR GSM Characterization Phase Overview
The AMR GSM Characterization Tests were performed on version [2.0] of the AMR
speech codec source code[^9]. Two host laboratories (Arcon and COMSAT, USA)
shared the responsibility of processing the speech samples initially provided
by the different listening laboratories. The host laboratories cross-checked
the processing performed by the other laboratory and provided the results of
this cross checking to the ETSI secretariat.
Eight listening laboratories performed the corresponding subjective listening
tests in 6 different languages (Chinese, English, French, German, Italian and
Spanish). All listening laboratories were requested to provide the results of
the listening tests they performed on an Excel Workbook provided by the
organization responsible for the Global analysis of the results.
The host laboratories and listening laboratories also provided their own
report and analysis to fulfil their contractual commitment.
Seven different experiments and 17 sub-experiments were specified in the AMR
Characterization Test Plan. The primary objectives of the different
experiments are listed below:
\- Experiment 1a and 1b: Performances in Clean Speech in a Full Rate (1a) and
Half Rate (1b);
\- Experiment 2: Interoperability Performances in Clean Speech (adaptation
off);
\- Experiment 3a, 3b and 3c: Performances under background noise conditions in
a Full Rate;
\- Experiment 3d, 3e and 3f: Performances under background noise conditions in
a Half Rate;
\- Experiment 4a and 4b: Performances in dynamic error conditions in a Full
Rate (4a) and Full Rate (4b) (with adaptation on);
\- Experiment 5: Performances in combined error conditions in Full Rate and
Half Rate (with adaptation on);
\- Experiment 6: Influence of the input speech level and Tandeming
performances in Full Rate and Half Rate (adaptation off);
\- Experiment 7a and 7b: Performance of the ENS VAD/DTX in Full Rate (7a) and
Half Rate (7b);
\- Experiment 7a and 7b: Performance of the Motorola VAD/DTX in Full Rate (7c)
and Half Rate (7e).
The following table provides a summary of the impairment conditions included
in each experiment.
Table A.1: Summary of the AMR Characterization Test conditions
* * *
Exp. Full\ Half\ Clean\ Bckgrd\ Static\ Dynamic\ Adaptation\ Tandem Rate Rate
Speech Noise Errors Errors On
1a X X X
1b X X X
2 X X X X
3a X X X
3b X X X
3c X X X
3d X X X
3e X X X
3f X X X
4a X X X X
4b X X X X
5 X X X X X X
6 X X X X
7a X X X X X X
7b X X X X X X
7c X X X X X X
7d X X X X X X
* * *
Each experiment was performed by two different laboratories in two different
languages as shown in the following table.
Table A.2: Allocation of the Experiments to the Listening Laboratories
Laboratory: | Arcon | AT&T | France  
Telecom | Berkom | Nortel | Conexant | FUB | COMSAT |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Languages  
Used: | English | English Spanish | French | German | English | English | Italian | English  
Spanish  
Chinese | Number of  
Conditions  
Tested1  
1a FR |  | _X (Eng)_ |  | _X (Ger)_ |  |  |  |  | _6x8_  
1b HR |  | _X (Eng)_ |  | _X (Ger)_ |  |  |  |  | _7x6_  
2 |  |  |  | _X (Ger)_ | _X (Eng)_ |  |  |  | _7x8_  
3a FR |  |  | _X (Fren)_ |  |  | _X (Eng)_ |  |  | _6x8_  
3b FR |  |  | _X (Fren)_ |  |  | _X (Eng)_ |  |  | _6x8_  
3c FR |  |  | _X (Fren)_ |  |  | _X (Eng)_ |  |  | _6x8_  
3d HR |  |  | _X (Fren)_ |  |  | _X (Eng)_ |  |  | _7x6_  
3e HR |  |  | _X (Fren)_ |  |  | _X (Eng)_ |  |  | _7x6_  
3f HR |  |  | _X (Fren)_ |  |  | _X (Eng)_ |  |  | _7x6_  
4a FR |  | _X (Span)_ |  |  | _X (Eng)_ |  |  |  | _9x3_  
4b FR |  | _X (Span)_ |  |  | _X (Eng)_ |  |  |  | _9x3_  
5 |  |  |  |  | _X (Eng)_ |  | _X (Ita)_ |  | _7x2_  
6 |  | _X (Eng)_ |  |  |  |  |  | _X (Chin)_ | _7x3_  
7a (ENS) | _X (Eng)_ |  |  |  |  |  |  | _X (Span)_ | _7x3_  
7b (ENS) | _X (Eng)_ |  |  |  |  |  |  | _X (Span)_ | _7x3_  
7a (Motorola) | _X (Eng)_ |  |  |  |  |  |  | _X (Span)_ | _7x3_  
7b (Motorola) | _X (Eng)_ |  |  |  |  |  |  | _X (Span)_ | _7x3_  
_Host lab:_ | _Arcon_ | _Arcon_ | _COMSAT_ | _COMSAT_ | _Arcon  
COMSAT_ | _ARCON_ | _COMSAT_ | _COMSAT_ |   
* * *
  1. In this table, the first number represents the number of impairment conditions (propagation errors, tandeming, input level, dynamic profile…). The second number represents the number of codec modes or number of configurations under test. For Experiments 7, both numbers represent impairment types↩︎
The Characterization tests were performed in April-May 1999. The results were
distributed over the AMR and SMG11 reflectors before May 21, 1999.
The global analysis was under the responsibility of the GSM North America
Alliance.
The full set of results and report provided by the different laboratories were
reviewed and approved in SMG11#11 (June 4-7, 1999) in Tampere, Finland. The
final report was approved by SMG#29 (June 21-25, 1999) in Miami-FL, USA
###### ### Annex B: AMR Verification Phase Overview
The selected AMR speech codec was jointly proposed by Ericsson, Nokia and
Siemens. It was identified during the selection phase by the acronym ENS1.
The proponents had the responsibility to complete the codec optimization after
the approval by SMG of the selection phase results. The optimization phase
essentially consisted in bug fixing and optimization of the channel coding.
To complete the standardization, a number of Third Parties volunteered to
participate to the verification phase by submitting contributions which served
as the basis for the present document. They are listed below with reference to
the previous sections of this report.
* * *
Clauses Description Contributing Organizations 5-9 Characterization Tests The
Characterization Tests (Annex A) were funded by the GSM Association, with
additional contributions from Ericsson, Motorola, Nokia, and Siemens 10
Performances with DTMF Tones BT (Tdoc. SMG11 105/99) 11 Transparency to
Announcement Tones France Telecom and T-Mobil (Tdoc. SMG11 13/99) 12
Performances with Special Input Signals France Telecom and Conexant (Tdocs
SMG11 12/99 and 105/99) Overload Performances BT (Tdoc SMG11 10/99) Idle
Channel Behavior Berkom and Lucent Technology (Tdocs SMG11 54/99 and 55/99)
Channel Coding Performances during DTX Nortel Networks (Tdoc SMG11 68/99)
Muting Behavior Nortel Networks and Philips (Tdocs SMG11 62/99 and 67/99) 13
Language Dependency No direct contribution 14 Transmission Delay Nortel
Networks (Tdoc SMG11 158/99) 15 Frequency Response CSELT (Tdoc SMG11 8/99) 16
Complexity Alcatel, Philips, ST Microelectronics and Texas Instruments (Tdocs
SMG11 75/99, 117/99, 194/99 and 398/99)
* * *
###### ### Annex C: Additional Characterization Test Results
This annex contains few additional results from the GSM Characterization
Tests. Specifically, the following sections provide a summary of the speech
quality measured for each codec mode under the different error conditions
tested in Experiments 1 and 3. A number of actual test results are also
provided to show the dispersion between tests performed by different
laboratories.
**[C3.1 Performances in Clean Speech in Full Rate mode]{.underline}**
The following table shows the typical test results dispersion (in Equivalent
Q) by comparing the results obtained for the 2 tests performed for Experiment
1a:
TableC3.1-1: Example of test result dispersion for Experiment 1a (Full rate in
clean speech)
* * *
**C/I** **Best Codec\** Test 1: ATandT (English)**** Test 2: Berkom (German)**  
performance\  
(requirement)**
                                       Qeq\                           Best\                         AMR\    Delta   Qeq\     Best\     AMR\    Delta
                                       (Req.)                         Mode                          Qeq.            (Req.)   Mode      Qeq.
No Errors EFR No Errors 30.29 _10.20_ 31.85 1.56 27.82 _12.20_ 28.81 0.99
16 dB EFR No Errors 30.29 _12.20_ 30.64 0.35 27.82 _12.20_ 29.12 1.30
13 dB EFR No Errors 30.29 _12.20_ 31.42 1.13 27.82 _12.20_ 31.18 3.36
10 dB G.728 [12] No Errors N/A _10.20_ 30.64 N/A N/A _7.95_ 30.55 5.79
7 dB G.728 [12] No Errors N/A _6.70_ 28.28 N/A N/A _7.95_ 28.09 3.34
4 dB EFR at 10 dB 23.03 _5.90_ 23.26 0.23 24.75 _5.90_ 23.67 -1.08
* * *
The following tables summarize the performances of the different AMR codec
modes under the tested error conditions with respect to well-known references
in full rate mode and clean speech:
Table C3.1-2: AMR speech codec mode performances in clean speech in full rate
* * *
             **Reference 1**               **Reference 2**
             **EFR No Errors**             **EFR @ 10dB C/I**
**Codec\** Equivalent to\ **Equivalent to\** Worse than Ref.2**Mode**
Reference 1**Reference 2**
**12.2** No Errors down to 10 dB C/I 7 dB C/I and below
**10.2** No Errors down to 10 dB C/I 7 B C/I 4 dB C/I
**7.95** No Errors down to 7 dB C/I 4 dB C/I
**7.4** No Errors down to 7 dB C/I 4 dB C/I
**6.7** No Errors down to 7 dB C/I 4 dB C/I
**5.9** No Errors down to 4 dB C/I
**5.15** No Errors down to 4 dB C/I
**4.75** No Errors down to 4 dB C/I
* * *
Table C3.1-3: Performances of the AMR speech codecs for different error
conditions in clean speech in full rate
* * *
                  **Reference 1**         **Reference 2**
                  **EFR No Errors**       **EFR at 10 dB C/I**
**Error\** Equivalent to\ **Equivalent to\** Worse than Ref.2**Condition**
Reference 1**Reference 2**
**No Errors** 12.2, 10.2, 7.95, 7.4 6.7, 5.9, 5.15, 4.75
**13 dB C/I** 12.2, 10.2, 7.95, 7.4 6.7, 5.9, 5.15, 4.75
**10 dB C/I** 12.2, 10.2, 7.95, 7.4 6.7, 5.9, 5.15, 4.75
**7 dB C/I** 7.95, 7.4 10.2, 6.7, 5.9, 5.15,4.75 12.2
**4 dB C/I** 5.9, 5.15, 4.75 6.7, 7.95, 7.4 and higher modes
* * *
**[C3.2. Performances in Clean Speech in Half Rate mode]{.underline}**
The following table shows the typical test results dispersion (in Equivalent
Q) by comparing the results obtained for the 2 tests performed for Experiment
1b:
Table C3.2-1: Example of test result dispersion for Experiment 1b (Half rate
in clean speech)
* * *
**C/I** **Best Codec\** Test 1: ATandT (English)**** Test 2: Berkom**  
performance\  
(requirement)**
                                       Qeq\                           Best\                AMR\     Delta   Qeq\     Best\    AMR\    Delta
                                       (Req.)                         Mode                 Qeq.             (Req.)   Mode     Qeq.
No Errors G.728 [12] no errors 26.13 _7.95_ 23.94 -2.19 25.22 _7.95_ 28.73
3.52
19 dB G.728 [12] no errors 26.13 _7.95_ 22.94 -3.19 25.22 _7.95_ 27.29 2.08
16 dB G.728 [12] no errors 26.13 _7.40_ 23.41 -2.72 25.22 _7.95_ 27.04 1.83
13 dB FR at 13 dB N/A _5.90_ 19.63 N/A N/A _5.90_ 23.51 N/A
10 dB FR at 10 dB 16.36 _5.90_ 16.30 -0.06 18.92 _5.15_ 22.21 3.29
7 dB FR at 7 dB 14.21 _4.75_ 1s5.14 0.94 16.74 _4.75_ 19.75 3.00
4 dB FR at 4 dB 7.78 _4.75_ 10.56 2.78 5.72 _4.75_ 12.09 6.37
* * *
The following tables summarize the performances of the different AMR codec
modes under the tested error conditions with respect to well-known references
in half rate mode and clean speech:
Table C3.2-2: AMR speech codec mode performances in clean speech in half rate
* * *
             **Reference 1**                                                **Reference 2**
             **G.728 \[**12**\] No Errors**                                 **FR No Errors**
**Codec\** Equivalent to\ **Worse than Ref.1\** Equivalent to\ **Worse than
Ref.2** Mode**Reference 1** Better than Ref.2**Reference 2**
**7.95** No Errors down to 16 dB C/I 13 dB C/I 10 dB C/I and below
**7.4** No Errors down to 16 dB C/I 13 dB C/I 10 dB C/I and below
**6.7** No Errors down to 16 dB C/I 13 dB C/I 10 dB C/I and below
**5.9** No Errors down to 13 dB C/I 10 dB C/I and below
**5.15** No Errors down to 13 dB C/I 10 dB C/I and below
**4.75** No Errors down to 13 dB C/I 10 dB C/I and below
* * *
Table C3.2-3: Performances of the AMR speech codecs for different error
conditions in clean speech in half rate
* * *
                  **Reference 1**                  **Reference 2**                               **Reference 3**
                  **G.728 \[**12**\] No Errors**   **EFR at 10 dB C/I**                          **FR at 10 dB C/I**
**Error\** Equivalent to\ **Equivalent to\** Worse than Ref.2\ **Equivalent
to\** Worse than Ref.3**Condition** Reference 1**Reference 2** Better than
Ref.3**Reference 2**
**No Errors** 7.95, 7.4, 6.7 5.9, 5.15, 4.75
**19 dB C/I** 7.95, 7.4, 6.7 5.9, 5.15, 4.75
**16 dB C/I** 7.95, 7.4, 6.7 5.9, 5.15, 4.75
**13 dB C/I** 5.9, 5.15 6.7, 4.75, 7.4, 7.95
**10 dB C/I** 5.15, 4.75 5.9, 6.7 7.4, 7.95
**7 dB C/I** 4.75 5.15, 5.9, 6.7, 7.4, 7.95
**4 dB C/I** all
* * *
**[C3.3. Performances in Background Noise in Full Rate mode]{.underline}**
The following tables show the typical test results dispersion (in Equivalent
Q) by comparing the results obtained for the 2 tests performed for Experiment
3a, 3b and 3c.
Table C3.3-1: Example of test result dispersion for Experiment 3a (Full rate
in Street Noise)
* * *
**C/I** **Best Codec\** Test 1: Conexant (English)**** Test 2: France Telecom
(French)**  
performance\  
(requirement)**
                                          Qeq\                             Best\                                 AMR\      Delta   Qeq\     Best\     AMR\      Delta
                                          (Req.)                           Mode                                  Qeq.              (Req.)   Mode      Qeq.
No Errors EFR No Errors 28.05 _10.20_ _27.56_ -0.49 25.86 _12.20_ _27.27_ 1.40
16 dB EFR No Errors 28.05 _12.20_ _27.56_ -0.49 25.86 _12.20_ _26.16_ 0.30
13 dB EFR No Errors 28.05 _12.20_ _26.83_ -1.22 25.86 _10.20_ _26.91_ 1.05
10 dB G.729/FR [13] No Errors 23.75 _10.20_ _28.23_ 4.48 25.86 _10.20_ _28.32_
2.46
7 dB G.729/FR [13] No Errors 23.75 _10.20_ _24.76_ 1.01 25.86 _6.70_ _24.71_
-1.16
4 dB FR at 10 dB 20.90 _6.70_ _23.66_ 2.77 24.15 _5.90_ _22.57_ -1.59
* * *
Table C3.3-2: Example of test result dispersion for Experiment 3b (Full rate
in Car Noise)
* * *
**C/I** **Best Codec\** Test 1: Conexant (English)**** Test 2: France Telecom
(French)**  
performance\  
(requirement)**
                                          Qeq\                             Best\                                 AMR\      Delta   Qeq\     Best\     AMR\      Delta
                                          (Req.)                           Mode                                  Qeq.              (Req.)   Mode      Qeq.
No Errors EFR No Errors 25.19 _10.20_ _26.86_ 1.67 27.67 _10.20_ _28.47_ 0.80
16 dB EFR No Errors 25.19 _12.20_ _25.40_ 0.21 27.67 _12.20_ _26.85_ -0.82
13 dB EFR No Errors 25.19 _12.20_ _25.62_ 0.43 27.67 _12.20_ _27.79_ 0.13
10 dB G.729/FR [13] No Errors 23.40 _10.20_ _27.76_ 4.36 26.22 _12.20_ _29.40_
3.18
7 dB G.729/FR [13] No Errors 23.40 _10.20_ _24.32_ 0.92 26.22 _10.20_ _25.04_
-1.18
4 dB FR at 10 dB 20.94 _5.90_ _21.92_ 0.97 23.26 _5.90_ _22.44_ -0.83
* * *
Table C3.3-3: Example of test result dispersion for Experiment 3b (Full rate
in Office Noise)
* * *
**C/I** **Best Codec\** Test 1: Conexant (English)**** Test 2: France Telecom
(French)**  
performance\  
(requirement)**
                                          Qeq\                             Best\                                 AMR\      Delta   Qeq\     Best\     AMR\      Delta
                                          (Req.)                           Mode                                  Qeq.              (Req.)   Mode      Qeq.
No Errors EFR No Errors 31.24 _10.20_ _33.09_ 1.85 29.37 _12.20_ _30.90_ 1.53
16 dB EFR No Errors 31.24 _12.20_ _30.12_ -1.12 29.37 _12.20_ _30.90_ 1.53
13 dB EFR No Errors 31.24 _10.20_ _31.56_ 0.32 29.37 _12.20_ _30.90_ 1.53
10 dB G.729/FR [13] No Errors 26.67 _10.20_ _31.56_ 4.89 28.62 _10.20_ _30.90_
2.28
7 dB G.729/FR [13] No Errors 26.67 _7.40_ _27.72_ 1.04 28.62 _6.70_ _29.24_
0.62
4 dB FR at 10 dB 21.32 _5.90_ _24.21_ 2.88 24.68 _5.90_ _25.93_ 1.26
* * *
The following tables summarize the performances of the different AMR codec
modes under the tested error conditions with respect to well-known references
in full rate mode under background noise conditions:
Table C3.3-4: AMR speech codec mode performances under background noise
conditions in full rate
* * *
             **Reference 1**                                             **Reference 2**
             **EFR No Errors**                                           **FR No Errors**
**Codec\** Equivalent to\ **Worse than Ref.1\** Equivalent to\ **Worse than
Ref.2** Mode**Reference 1** Better than Ref. 2**Reference 2**
**12.2** No Errors down to 13 dB C/I 10 dB C/I 7 dB C/I and below
**10.2** No Errors down to 10 dB C/I 7 B C/I 4 dB C/I
**7.95** No Errors down to 16 dB C/I 13 dB C/I down to 10 dB C/I 7 B C/I 4 dB
C/I
**7.4** No Errors down to 16 dB C/I 13 dB C/I down to 7 dB C/I 4 dB C/I
**6.7** No Errors down to 16 dB C/I 13 dB C/I down to 7 dB C/I 4 dB C/I
**5.9** No Errors down to 7 dB C/I Equivalent to FR at 10 dB at 4 dB C/I
**5.15** Usually found below FR at 10 C/I
**4.75** Usually found below FR at 10 C/I
* * *
Table C3.3-5: Performances of the AMR speech codecs for different error
conditions under background noise conditions in full rate
* * *
                  **Reference 1**                           **Reference 2**
                  **EFR No Errors**                         **FR No Errors**
**Error\** Equivalent to\ **Worse than Ref.1\** Equivalent to\ **Worse than
Ref.2** Condition**Reference 1** Better than Ref.2**Reference 2**
**No Errors** 12.2, 10.2, 7.95 7.4, 6.7 5.9 5.15, 4.75
**13 dB C/I** 12.2, 10.2 7.95 7.4, 6.7, 5.9, 5.15 5.15, 4.75
**10 dB C/I** 10.2 7.95, 12.2 7.4, 6.7, 5.9 5.15, 4.75
**7 dB C/I** 10.2, 7.95, 7.4, 6.7, 5.9 5.15, 12.2, 4.75
**4 dB C/I** All
* * *
**[C3.4. Performances in Background Noise in Half Rate mode]{.underline}**
The following tables show the typical test results dispersion (in Equivalent
Q) by comparing the results obtained for the 2 tests performed for Experiment
3d, 3e and 3f:
Table C3.4-1: Example of test result dispersion for Experiment 3a (Half rate
in Street Noise)
* * *
**C/I** **Best Codec\** Test 1: Conexant (English)**** Test 2: France Telecom
(French)**  
performance\  
(requirement)**
                                          Qeq\                             Best\                                 AMR\      Delta   Qeq\     Best\    AMR\      Delta
                                          (Req.)                           Mode                                  Qeq.              (Req.)   Mode     Qeq.
No Errors EFR No Errors 21.30 _7.40_ _21.30_ 0.00 25.73 _7.95_ _25.52_ -0.22
19 dB G.729/FR [13] No Errors 19.99 _7.95_ _20.54_ 0.55 23.86 _7.40_ _24.19_
0.33
16 dB G.729/FR [13] No Errors 19.99 _7.95_ _20.20_ 0.21 23.86 _7.95_ _25.85_
1.99
13 dB FR at 13 dB 18.21 _5.90_ _17.56_ -0.65 25.21 _5.90_ _22.94_ -2.26
10 dB FR at 10 dB 17.56 _5.15_ _15.69_ -1.87 23.09 _4.75_ _20.50_ -2.59
7 dB FR at 7 dB 14.92 _4.75_ _15.17_ 0.25 19.92 _4.75_ _18.64_ -1.28
4 dB FR at 4 dB 4.18 _4.75_ _7.30_ 3.12 7.23 _4.75_ _11.40_ 4.17
* * *
Table C3.4-2: Example of test result dispersion for Experiment 3b (Half rate
in Car Noise)
* * *
**C/I** **Best Codec\** Test 1: Conexant (English)**** Test 2: France Telecom
(French)**  
performance\  
(requirement)**
                                          Qeq\                             Best\                                 AMR\      Delta   Qeq\     Best\    AMR\      Delta
                                          (Req.)                           Mode                                  Qeq.              (Req.)   Mode     Qeq.
No Errors EFR No Errors 22.71 _7.95_ _22.30_ -0.41 27.26 _7.95_ _25.66_ -1.59
19 dB G.729/FR [13] No Errors 20.28 _7.40_ _21.55_ 1.28 23.17 _7.95_ _24.72_
1.55
16 dB G.729/FR [13] No Errors 20.28 _7.40_ _20.28_ 0.00 23.17 _7.95_ _24.72_
1.55
13 dB FR at 13 dB 17.60 _6.70_ _19.54_ 1.94 24.30 _5.90_ _23.17_ -1.13
10 dB FR at 10 dB 17.60 _5.15_ _16.61_ -0.99 23.09 _4.75_ _20.36_ -2.73
7 dB FR at 7 dB 14.51 _4.75_ _15.01_ 0.50 21.26 _4.75_ _19.53_ -1.74
4 dB FR at 4 dB 2.39 _4.75_ _7.25_ 4.86 6.76 _4.75_ _11.43_ 4.67
* * *
Table C3.4-3: Example of test result dispersion for Experiment 3b (Half rate
in Office Noise)
* * *
**C/I** **Best Codec\** Test 1: Conexant (English)**** Test 2: France Telecom
(French)**  
performance\  
(requirement)**
                                          Qeq\                             Best\                                 AMR\      Delta   Qeq\     Best\    AMR\      Delta
                                          (Req.)                           Mode                                  Qeq.              (Req.)   Mode     Qeq.
No Errors EFR No Errors 37.36 _6.70_ _37.53_ 0.17 31.90 _7.95_ _30.08_ -1.82
19 dB G.729/FR [13] No Errors 27.75 _7.95_ _27.34_ -0.41 28.29 _7.95_ _29.29_
1.00
16 dB G.729/FR [13] No Errors 27.75 _7.95_ _26.63_ -1.12 28.29 _7.95_ _29.80_
1.51
13 dB FR at 13 dB 19.20 _5.90_ _22.81_ 3.61 27.99 _5.90_ _27.90_ -0.10
10 dB FR at 10 dB 19.28 _4.75_ _19.05_ -0.23 27.09 _5.90_ _25.24_ -1.84
7 dB FR at 7 dB 17.07 _4.75_ _17.87_ 0.80 22.49 _4.75_ _24.14_ 1.65
4 dB FR at 4 dB 6.71 _4.75_ _10.13_ 3.42 12.23 _4.75_ _16.63_ -1.82
* * *
The following tables summarize the performances of the different AMR codec
modes under the tested error conditions with respect to well-known references
in half rate mode under background noise conditions:
Table C3.4-4: AMR speech codec mode performances under background noise
conditions in half rate
* * *
             **Reference 1**     **Reference 2**                          **Reference 3**
             **EFR No Errors**   **FR No Errors**   (see Note below)      **HR No Errors**
**Codec\** Equivalent to\ **Equivalent to\** Worse than Ref.2\ **Equivalent
to\** Worse than Ref.3**Mode** Reference 1**Reference 2** Better than
Ref.3**Reference 3**
**7.95** No Errors down\ 13 dB C/I 10 dB C/I and below to 16 dB C/I
**7.4** No Errors 16 dB C/I 13 dB C/I 10 dB C/I and below
**6.7** No Errors 16 to 13 dB C/I 10 dB C/I and below
**5.9** No Errors down\ 10 dB C/I 7 dB C/I and below to 13 dB C/I
**5.15** No Errors down\ 10 dB C/I 7 dB C/I and below to 13 dB C/I
**4.75** No Errors down\ 7 dB C/I and below to 10 dB C/I
* * *
Table C3.4-5: Performances of the AMR speech codecs for different error
conditions under background noise conditions in half rate
* * *
                  **Reference 1**     **Reference 2**                          **Reference 3**
                  **EFR No Errors**   **FR No Errors**   (see Note above)      **HR No Errors**
**Codec\** Equivalent to\ **Equivalent to\** Worse than Ref.2\ **Equivalent
to\** Worse than Ref.3**Mode** Reference 1**Reference 2** Better than
Ref.3**Reference 3**
**No Errors** 7.95, 7.4, 6.7 5.9 5.15 4.75
**16 dB C/I** 7.95 7.4, 6.7, 5.9 5.15 4.75
**13 dB C/I** 5.9, 6.7 5.15 4.75, 7.95, 7.4
**10 dB C/I** 5.9, 5.15, 4.75 7.95, 7.4, 6.7
**7 dB C/I** 4.75 Equivalent to FR at 7 dB C/I
**4 dB C/I** 5.15 and 4.75 better than FR at 4 dB C/I
* * *
###### ### Annex D: AMR Performances as a function of FER and RBER
In this annex, the GSM characterization test results are charted as a function
of the Frame Erasure Rate (FER) or Residual Bit Error Rate (RBER) as measured
for each Error Pattern used for the subjective listening tests. They are
provided as an indication of the quality degradation to be expected for the
implementation of the AMR speech codec in 3G networks.
In the following diagrams, the quality degradation is expressed in
[∆MOS]{.underline} (or [∆DMOS)]{.underline} obtained by comparing the MOS (or
DMOS) obtained by the different codecs for each impairment condition with the
MOS (or DMOS) obtained by the EFR in Error Free in the same experiment.
The results were compiled as explained below:
> \- In all cases, the results represent the average scores obtained over all
> tests performed for each experiment as compiled in [D1];
>
> \- The reference is always EFR in Error Free as measured in the same
> experiment;
>
> \- The charts in clean speech (Figures D1a-D1d) were obtained from the
> Characterization test results for Experiments 1a and 1b (Test performed by
> ATandT and Berkom);
>
> \- The charts in Car Noise (Figures D.a-D2d) were obtained from the
> Characterization test results for Experiments 3b and 3e (Test performed by
> France Telecom and Conexant);
>
> \- The charts in Street Noise (Figures D3a-D3d) were obtained from the
> Characterization test results for Experiments 3a and 3d (Test performed by
> France Telecom and Conexant);
>
> \- The charts in Office Noise (Figures D4a-D4e) were obtained from the
> Characterization test results for Experiments 3c and 3f (Test performed by
> France Telecom and Conexant);
>
> \- In all cases, the actual results were manually altered to smoothen the
> shape of the curves;
>
> \- The reference FER and RBER were extracted from [2] (document prepared in
> 12/98 for the selection of the AMR Channel Coding scheme).
It should also be noted that the diagrams function of the FER are affected by
the Residual Bit Error Rate for each test condition, while the diagrams
function of the RBER are also function of the FER present for each test
condition. The two sets of diagrams cannot be considered totally independent.
Finally, it should be pointed out that the FER and RBER estimates used to
derive these diagrams are based on the limited number of error patterns used
for the AMR characterization phase. These could be affected by some
inaccuracies that could explain the difference in shapes between the different
speech codec modes.
These results can also be compared to previous indications provided by S4 to
R1 and S2 regarding the robustness of the AMR Speech Codec (Ref [3] and [4]).
The following section is extracted from a Liaison Statement sent to R1 [3],
the same reference is also used in [4] (Liaison to S2):
The frame error rate required for producing high speech quality with only
small quality degradation compared to error free speech is typically FER \<
0.5%. This requirement guarantees retaining the maximum quality of, e.g., the
GSM EFR codec. The quality then degrades gracefully with increasing frame
error rate. This FER limit should be considered as a conservative figure.
# D.1 Results in Clean Speech in ∆MOS
{width="3.907638888888889in" height="2.4472222222222224in"}
Figure D1a: Quality Degradation function of FER (FR Test Results)
{width="3.9in" height="2.4340277777777777in"}
Figure D1b: Quality Degradation function of FER (HR Test Results)
{width="3.7694444444444444in" height="2.457638888888889in"}
Figure D1c: Quality Degradation function of RBER (FR Test Results)
{width="3.9006944444444445in" height="2.4402777777777778in"}
Figure D1d: Quality Degradation function of RBER (HR Test Results)
**Comments on the previous results:**
In clean speech, it appears that all codec modes do not show any significant
quality degradation when the Frame Erasure Rate is lower than 0,5 %. In some
instances, the range can even be extended to 1% FER without any quality
degradation.
It is also interesting to note that at 1% FER degradation, the highest codec
modes (12.2 and 10.2) are still equivalent to the second tier of codec modes
(7.95 to 5.9) in error free. Similarly, the middle range codec modes (7.95 to
5.9) present the same quality at 1% FER than the lower rate codec modes (5.15
and 4.75) in error free conditions.
The experiments in Half Rate have slightly increased the differences between
the codecs and with EFR as could have been expected, but the same trends can
be observed.
The results as a function of the RBER are also very similar with a different
range of acceptable RBER. The different codec modes do not present any
significant quality degradation when the RBER is below 0.1%.
# D.2 Results in Car Noise
{width="3.8777777777777778in" height="2.451388888888889in"}
Figure D2a: Quality Degradation function of FER (FR Test Results)
{width="3.44375in" height="2.441666666666667in"}
Figure D2b: Quality Degradation function of FER (HR Test Results)
{width="3.920138888888889in" height="2.457638888888889in"}
Figure D2c: Quality Degradation function of RBER (FR Test Results)
{width="3.907638888888889in" height="2.4472222222222224in"}
Figure D2d: Quality Degradation function of RBER (HR Test Results)
**Comments on the previous results:**
In car noise, no significant degradation is observed when the FER stays below
1% and the difference in quality between the different codecs is slightly
amplified compared to the results clean speech.
# D.3 Results in Street Noise
{width="3.907638888888889in" height="2.4472222222222224in"}
Figure D3a: Quality Degradation function of FER (FR Test Results)
{width="3.9in" height="2.4375in"}
Figure D3b: Quality Degradation function of FER (HR Test Results)
{width="3.920138888888889in" height="2.457638888888889in"}
Figure D3c: Quality Degradation function of RBER (FR Test Results)
{width="3.9006944444444445in" height="2.4402777777777778in"}
Figure D3d: Quality Degradation function of RBER (HR Test Results)
**Comments on the previous results:**
The results in street noise are in line with the previous results.
# D.4 Results in Office Noise:
{width="3.907638888888889in" height="2.4472222222222224in"}
Figure D4a: Quality Degradation function of FER (FR Test Results)
{width="3.9in" height="2.4375in"}
Figure D4b: Quality Degradation function of FER (HR Test Results)
{width="3.920138888888889in" height="2.457638888888889in"}
Figure D4c: Quality Degradation function of RBER (FR Test Results)
{width="3.9006944444444445in" height="2.4402777777777778in"}
Figure D4d: Quality Degradation function of RBER (HR Test Results)
**Comments on the previous results:**
Same comment for the results in Office Noise
### References to Annex D:
[D1]: AMR Characterization Combined Test Results (spreadsheet): SMG11 Tdoc
243/99, SMG11#10, June 4-11, 1999, Tampere, Finland
[D2]: Annex 3 to the LS to SMG2 WPB on alternative AMR channel coding schemes:
\"Objective test results for alternative AMR channel coding schemes\" from
Ericsson/Nokia/Siemens SMG11 Tdoc 329/98, SMG11#8Bis, December 17, 1998,
London Heathrow, UK
[D2]: S4 LS to TSG-R1 \"Response to the TSG-R1 LS on Speech Services\" Tdoc
185R/99, TSG-S4#3, March 24-26, 1999, Yokosuka, Japan
[D4]: S4 LS to TSG-S2, S2 QoS and R3 \"Error resilience in real-time packet
multimedia payloads\" Tdoc 179R/99, TSG-S4#5, June 14-16, 1999, Miami, FL-USA
###### ### Annex E: AMR Characterization in 3G Channels
# E.1 Overview of the 3G Characterization Phase
Following the selection of AMR as the mandatory speech codec for the 3G system
under the responsibility of 3GPP, it was decided to carry out a simplify 3G
Characterization Phase to check the behavior of the speech codec in 3G radio
channels. The corresponding tests, funded by the 3GPP PCG, were completed in
4Q00.
Because of the exhaustive tests already performed in the GSM environment, it
was decided to restrict the scope of the 3G Characterization Phase to
conditions directly impacted by the 3G Radio Interface. Consequently, most of
the tests were performed in clean speech conditions, so that a maximum number
of different propagation error conditions could be tested. The 3G
Characterization Phase included 2 experiments and 3 sub-experiments, each
performed by a different test laboratory. The scope of the different
experiments is provided in the following table:
Table E.1: Summary of the AMR 3G Characterization Test conditions
* * *
Experiment. Test\ Language Noise\ Laboratory Condition
1a _Dynastat_ English Clean
1b _Lookheed Martin GT_ Korean Clean
1c _NTT-AT_ Japanese Clean
2 _Arcon_ English Car Noise at 15dB SNR
* * *
The other tasks were under the responsibility of:
Lookheed Martin GT: Preparation of the Test Plan and Processing Procedures
Specification
Nortel Networks and NTT DoCoMo: Preparation of the Error Patterns
Arcon: Host Laboratory and Global Analysis
The experiments were dimensioned to evaluate the performances of a subset of
the AMR codec modes for 3 Path Profiles at 3 different target FER. All
conditions involved single encoding only (No Tandem) without DTX activated.
The actual error conditions tested are summarized in the following table. All
AMR modes were also tested in No Error conditions in all experiments, in
addition to the following references: ADPCM G.726 at 32kbit/s (Not in Exp.2),
G.723.1 [15] at 6.3kbit/s, G.729 [13] at 8kbit/s (all 3 in No errors), GSM EFR
at 10 and 7 dB C/I, GSM FR and IS-127 (both in No Errors and in Exp.1 only).
Table E.2: Overview of the tested conditions
* * *
Experiment. Path Profile Target FER Modes Tested 1a Uplink-Vehicular-B-50 km/h
0.5%, 1%, 3% 12.2, 7.95, 6.7, 5.15 Downlink-Vehicular-B-120 km/h 0.5%, 1%, 3%
12.2, 7.95, 6.7, 5.15 Uplink-Pedestrian-B-3 km/h 0.5%, 1%, 3% 10.2, 7.4, 5.90,
4.75 1b Downlink-Vehicular-B-50 km/h 0.5%, 1%, 3% 12.2, 7.95, 6.7, 5.15
Uplink-Indoor-A-3 km/h 0.5%, 1%, 3% 10.2, 7.4, 5.90, 4.75 Downlink-
Pedestrian-B-3 km/h 0.5%, 1%, 3% 10.2, 7.4, 5.90, 4.75 1c Uplink-
Vehicular-B-120 km/h 0.5%, 1%, 3% 12.2, 7.95, 6.7, 5.15 Downlink- Indoor-A-3
km/h 0.5%, 1%, 3% 12.2, 7.95, 6.7, 5.15 Uplink- Pedestrian-A-3 km/h 0.5%, 1%,
3% 10.2, 7.4, 5.90, 4.75 2 Downlink-Pedestrian-B-3 km/h 0.5%, 1% 10.2, 7.4,
5.90, 4.75 Uplink-Vehicular-A-50 km/h 0.5%, 1%, 12.2, 7.95, 6.7, 5.15 Uplink-
Vehicular-B-120 km/h 0.5%, 1%, 10.2, 7.4, 5.90
* * *
# E.2 Radio Simulator Parameters
The key parameters used for the simulation of the 3G Channels are summarized
below. Note, however, that these parameters do not in any case ensure to meet
appropriate QoS parameters for the different RAB subflows, for which a
suitable example is to meet a residual BER for class B bits of 0.1% and a
residual BER for class C bits of 0.5% at an SDU error ratio of 0.7% [E1].
Statistical analyses of the 3G error patterns used [E2], [E3] show that
particularly for modes AMR12.2 and AMR10.2 the residual BER of class C bits
partly is much higher than according to this example (up to 2.5% at a SDU
error ratio of 0.5%). Moreover, the SDU error rate and residual BER figures
obtained at a given radio simulator setting may exhibit considerable
statistical variations, as, particularly for the case of 0.5% SDU error rate,
the number of required frame erasures and residual bit errors is low compared
to the length of the error pattern (1600 frames).
## E.2.1 General
Maximum source bit rate of 12.2 kbit/s
12 bits CRC size on Class A Bits
Normal Frames (not compressed)
**Channel Coding** : Based on Convolutional Codes defined in [7]
**Rate Matching** : Median values of Rate Matching attributes defined in [7]
**Power Control:** The Power Control is made of two loops, the so-called inner
and outer loops. The inner loop is used to decide on the PC command based on
the estimation of the SIR and its comparison to the SIR target, the outer loop
is made to adjust the SIR target according to metrics that are used to
evaluate the quality of the link. The outer loop has been disabled, e.g. the
SIR target has been fixed in comparison with waited FER values of 0.5%, 1%,
and 3%. The algorithms used for the measurements as well as the adjustment of
the SIR target are proprietary.
The Power Control Algorithm referenced as option #1 has been used for the
inner loop, with 1 dB steps.
The Power Control implies a certain loop delay, due to the SIR estimation, the
transmission of the command on the reverse link, the decision on the Power
Control command and its application. A delay of 1 time slot is used. The
assumed BER on TPC bits is 4 %.
**Diversity:** There exist transmit and receive diversity. It is assumed that
Rx diversity will be very common in the future UMTS networks. Therefore, in
Uplink, receiver diversity is used. The Transmit diversity can be used in
Downlink, but there will be many Node B which won\'t offer this feature.
Therefore, no Tx diversity is assumed in DL.
**Propagation profiles and mobile speeds :** The Working Groups of the TSG RAN
use six different profiles: Indoor A and B, Outdoor to Indoor A and B, and
Outdoor A and B.
These profiles in conjunction with the mobile speed are used to simulate
different scenarios, e.g. Outdoor-to-Indoor with a mobile speed of 3 km/h is
assumed to correspond to a pedestrian in a urban environment, at 50 km/h it
can correspond to car in a suburban environment.
Regarding the 3G AMR characterization, some typical scenarios have been
defined and from these scenarios the profile and the mobile speed to use have
been derived: speed of 3km/h for profiles indoor A, Pedestrian A and
Pedestrian B; speed of 50 km/h for Vehicular A and Vehicular B; speed of 120
km/h for Vehicular B.
## E.2.2 Uplink
**Spreading Factors:** The spreading factor is 64 for the speech bitrates
higher than 5.15 kbps, 128 otherwise.
**Transport Format Combination Indicator:** The TFCI informs the receiver
about the instantaneous transport format combination of the transport channels
mapped to the simultaneously transmitted uplink DPDCH radio frame. For this
exercise, the TFCI is transmitted but not used because we suppose a perfect
decoding (always the same transport format combination).
**DCCH:** A DCCH, of either 3.4 or 1.7 kbit/s depending on the spreading
factor, shared the DPDCH with the TrCH carrying the voice.
**Slot Format:** The slot format for DPDCH and DPCCH is given in [8].
A spreading factor of 64 implies slot format #2 to be used for the DPDCH and a
spreading factor of 128 implies slot format #1 to be used for the DPDCH. For
DPCCH, non-compressed frame formats and no DL transmitter diversity imply to
use slot format #0: the frame structure is 6 pilot bits + 2 TFCI + 2 TPC.
**Gain Factors:** The gain factor is the power offset between the DPCCH (which
carries the control bits such as the Pilot bits, TFCI, TPC, etc.) and the
DPDCH (which carries the user data and the UTRAN signalling). This difference
of power comes from the difference between spreading factors.
The gain factor for DPCCH is 11 and the gain factor for DPDCH is 15.
**Interferences: There was no MAI in Uplink, however an AWGN channel was
used.**
## E.2.3 Downlink
**Spreading Factors:** The spreading factor is 128 for the speech bitrates
higher than 5.15 kbps, 256 otherwise.
**Transport Format Combination Indicator:** For DL, BTFD is assumed. Therefore
no TFCI is used for format detection.
For this exercise, there is no BTFD error because we suppose a perfect
decoding (always the same transport format combination) and ratio of BTFD
error is relatively low compared with FER of speech information.
**DCCH:** A DCCH, of either 3.4 or 1.7 kbit/s depending on the spreading
factor, shared the DPDCH with the TrCH carrying the voice.
**Slot Format:** A spreading factor of 128 and 256, which depends on source
bit-rate, and non-compressed frame format imply slot format #12 to be used for
DPCH including both DPDCH and DPCCH. The frame structure for DPCCH is 4 pilot
bits + 2 TPC.
**Gain Factors** : Equal gain factors are used both DPDCH and DPCCH for DL.
This means there is no power offset between them.
**Interferences** : Channel setting defined in Table C.3 of [9] is used for
DL.
# E.3 AMR 3G Characterization Test Results in Clean Speech
The following diagrams present the raw test results of Experiments 1a, 1b and
1c, for the different path profiles and target FER tested in these
experiments. The performances are presented as a function of the target FER.
As in Annex D, the performances are usually showing no significant degradation
of the speech quality down to 1% FER. It is to be noted that the shown
performance degradation for modes AMR12.2 and AMR10.2 is worse than can be
expected with more appropriate QoS attributes for class C bits.
{width="3.9069444444444446in" height="2.990972222222222in"}
Figure E3-1: AMR 3G Characterization Exp. 1a Test Results -- Clean Speech --
Uplink Vehicular-B 50 km/h Profile
{width="3.9069444444444446in" height="2.9590277777777776in"}
Figure E3-2: AMR 3G Characterization Exp. 1a Test Results -- Clean Speech --
Downlink Vehicular-B 120 km/h Profile
{width="3.9069444444444446in" height="2.8368055555555554in"}
Figure E3-3: AMR 3G Characterization Exp. 1a Test Results -- Clean Speech --
Uplink Pedestrian-B 3 km/h Profile
{width="3.8944444444444444in" height="2.9791666666666665in"}
Figure E3-4: AMR 3G Characterization Exp. 1b Test Results -- Clean Speech --
Downlink Vehicular-B 50 km/h Profile
{width="3.8944444444444444in" height="2.9472222222222224in"}
Figure E3-5: AMR 3G Characterization Exp. 1b Test Results -- Clean Speech
--Uplink Indoor-A 3 km/h Profile
{width="3.9069444444444446in" height="2.834722222222222in"}
Figure E3-6: AMR 3G Characterization Exp. 1b Test Results -- Clean Speech --
Downlink Pedestrian-B 3 km/h Profile
{width="3.9in" height="2.9791666666666665in"}
Figure E3-7: AMR 3G Characterization Exp. 1c Test Results -- Clean Speech --
Uplink Vehicular-B 120 km/h Profile
{width="3.8944444444444444in" height="2.9472222222222224in"}
Figure E3-8: AMR 3G Characterization Exp. 1c Test Results -- Clean Speech --
Downlink Indoor-A 3 km/h Profile
{width="3.9069444444444446in" height="2.834722222222222in"}
Figure E3-9: AMR 3G Characterization Exp. 1c Test Results -- Clean Speech --
Uplink Pedestrian-A 3 km/h Profile
# E.4 AMR 3G Characterization Test Results in Car Noise
The following diagrams present the raw test results of Experiment 2 for the
different path profiles and target FER tested in this experiment. The
performances are presented as a function of the target FER. Again, and as in
Annex D, the performances are usually showing no significant degradation of
the speech quality down to 1% FER. It is to be noted that the shown
performance degradation for modes AMR12.2 and AMR10.2 is worse than can be
expected with more appropriate QoS attributes for class C bits.
{width="3.9069444444444446in" height="2.9770833333333333in"}
Figure E4-1: AMR 3G Characterization Exp. 2 Test Results -- 15 dB SNR Car
Noise -- Downlink Pedestrian-B 3 km/h Profile
{width="3.8944444444444444in" height="2.9472222222222224in"}
Figure E4-2: AMR 3G Characterization Exp. 2 Test Results -- 15 dB SNR Car
Noise -- Uplink Vehicular-A 50 km/h Profile
{width="3.9069444444444446in" height="2.8305555555555557in"}
Figure E4-3: AMR 3G Characterization Exp. 2 Test Results -- 15 dB SNR Car
Noise -- Uplink Vehicular-B 120 km/h Profile
### References to Annex E:
[E1] 3GPP TS 26.102: \"AMR speech codec; Interface to Iu and Uu\", Version
3.3.0
[E2] 3GPP TSG-SA4 Tdoc S4-010053: \"Statistics of 3G error patterns provided
by NTT DoCoMo\", January 2001, Munich, Germany
[E3] 3GPP TSG-SA4 Tdoc S4-010490: \"Statistics of 3G error patterns provided
by Nortel Networks\", September 2001, Erlangen, Germany
#