# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides background information on the performance of the
six candidates which were proposed as solutions for publication of an example
noise suppression solution for application to the GSM Adaptive Multi-Rate
(AMR) speech codec. Experimental test results from the speech quality related
testing are reported to illustrate the behaviour of the candidate algorithms
in multiple operational conditions. Additional information is also provided
covering data not necessarily directly associated with speech quality (such as
complexity, delay, effect on voice activity factor).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] GSM 02.76: \"Noise suppression for the AMR codec; Service description;
Stage 1\".
[3] GSM 03.50: \"Transmission planning aspects of the speech service in the
GSM Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) system\".
[4] GSM 06.08: \"Performance characterization of the GSM half rate speech
codec\".
[5] GSM 06.55: \"Performance characterization of the GSM Enhanced Full Rate
(EFR) speech codec\".
[6] GSM 06.75: \"Performance Characterization of the GSM Adaptive Multi-Rate
(AMR) speech codec\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation G.726: \"40, 32, 24, 16 kbit/s Adaptive Differential
Pulse Code Modulation (ADPCM)
[8] ITU-T Recommendation G.728: \"Coding of speech at 16 kbit/s using low-
delay code excited linear prediction\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation P.56: \"Objective measurement of active speech
level\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) codec: s** peech and channel codec capable of
operating at gross bit-rates of 11.4 kbit/s (\"_half-rate_ \") and 22.8 kbit/s
(\"_full-rate_ \"). In addition, the codec may operate at various combinations
of speech and channel coding (_codec mode_) bit-rates for each _channel mode_
**Channel mode: h** alf-rate or full-rate operation
**Codec mode: f** or a given _channel mode_ , the bit partitioning between the
speech and channel codecs
**Error Patterns**
**Error Insertion Device: r** esult of offline simulations stored on files. To
be used by the \"Error Insertion Device\" to model the radio transmission from
the output of the channel decoder and interleaver to the input of the
deinterleaver and channel decoder
**Full-rate (FR): f** ull-rate channel or _channel mode_
**Half-rate (HR): h** alf-rate channel or _channel mode_
**Toll Quality: s** peech quality normally achieved on modern wireline
telephones. Synonymous with \"ISDN quality\"
**Wireline quality: s** peech quality provided by modern wireline networks.
Normally taken to imply quality at least as good as that of 32kbit/s G.726 [7]
or G.728 [8] 16 kbit/s codecs.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
> A/D Analogue to Digital
>
> ACR Absolute Category Rating
>
> ADPCM Adaptive Differential Pulse Code Modulation
>
> AMR Adaptive Multi-Rate
>
> AMR-NS AMR Noise Suppression
>
> BSC Base Station Controller
>
> BTS Base Transceiver Station
>
> C/I Carrier-to-Interfere ratio
>
> CCR Comparison Category Rating
>
> CI Confidence Interval
>
> CNI Comfort Noise Insertion
>
> CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
>
> D/A Digital to Analogue
>
> DAT Digital Audio Tape
>
> DCR Degradation Category Rating
>
> DSP Digital Signal Processor
>
> DTMF Dual Tone Multi Frequency
>
> DTX Discontinuous Transmission for power consumption and interference
> reduction
>
> ECx Error Conditions at x dB C/I simulating a radio channel under static C/I
> using ideal Frequency Hopping in a TU3 multipath propagation profile
>
> EFR Enhanced Full Rate
>
> ESP Product of E (Efficiency), S (Speed) and P (Percentage of Power) of the
> DSP
>
> FH Frequency Hopping
>
> FR Full Rate (also GSM FR)
>
> G.726 ITU 16/24/32kbit/s ADPCM codec
>
> G.728 ITU 16kbit/s LD-CELP codec
>
> G.729 ITU 8/6.4/11.8 kbit/s speech codec
>
> GBER Average gross bit error rate
>
> GSM Global System for Mobile communications
>
> HR Half Rate (also GSM HR)
>
> IRS Intermediate Reference System
>
> ITU-T International Telecommunication Union - Telecommunications
> Standardisation Sector
>
> MNRU Modulated Noise Reference Unit
>
> Mod. IRS Modified IRS
>
> MOPS Million of Operation per Seconds
>
> MOS Mean Opinion Score
>
> MS Mobile Station
>
> MSC Mobile Switching Center
>
> Multiple Error Patterns were used during the Characterisation tests. They
> are identified by the propagation Error Conditions from which they are
> derived. The following conventions are used:
>
> PCM Pulse Code Modulation
>
> PSTN Public Switched Telecommunications Network
>
> Q Speech-to-speech correlated noise power ratio in dB
>
> SD Standard Deviation
>
> SID Silence Descriptor
>
> SMG Special Mobile Group
>
> SNR Signal To Noise Ratio
>
> TCH-AFS Traffic CHannel Adaptive Full rate Speech
>
> TCH-AHS Traffic CHannel Adaptive Half rate Speech
>
> TDMA Time Division Multiple Access
>
> TFO Tandem Free Operation
>
> tMOPS true Million of Operations per Seconds
>
> TUx Typical Urban at multipath propagation profile at x km/s
>
> VAD Voice Activity Detector
>
> VAF Voice Activity Factor
wMOPS weighted Million of Operations per Seconds
For abbreviations not given in this clause, see GSM 01.04 [1].
# 4 General
## 4.1 Project History
In June 1998 during SMG#26, SMG approved a Work Item to develop and
standardise a noise suppression solution for the Adaptive Multi-rate (AMR)
speech codec. SMG11 have carried out this work since September 1998 (SMG11#7).
The work in SMG11 focussed on the preparations for a Selection Phase with the
intention of choosing an example optional noise suppression solution. In the
course of this work, documentation covering Requirements [2], Design
Constraints, Selection Phase Deliverables, Selection Phase Rules, and a
Selection Phase Test Plan were drafted.
In August 1999 the Selection Phase commenced. Six Noise Suppression algorithms
were submitted as candidates. The algorithm proposals came from Ericsson
(NS5), Matra Nortel Communications (MNC) (NS4), Mitsubishi Electric
Corporation (NS1), Motorola (NS6), Nokia (NS3) and Siemens AG (NS2). Testing
of candidate solutions was carried out during September-November 1999, and the
listening test results were analysed at two meetings: SMG11#13 (December 1999)
and SMG11#14 (January 2000). Listening test results and deliverables from
proponents (technical descriptions of the algorithms, analysis of compliance
to design constraints, additional information such as objective measurements)
were reviewed within SMG11.
SMG11 were not able to reach a consensus on selecting an example solution, and
as a consequence the deliverables from the Work Item were amended during
SMG#31 to comprise of a specification defining Recommended Minimum Performance
Requirements [TBA], an associated Subjective Listening Test Plan, and a
Technical Report recording all pertinent information arising from the
Selection Phase. The present document forms the latter deliverable.
## 4.2 Overview of the AMR-NS Work Item
The Work Item covered the development of a noise suppression algorithm as an
example optional feature designed to enhance speech quality in a range of
environments where there is significant (acoustic) background noise. The noise
suppression function is a preprocessing module that is used to improve the
signal to noise ratio of a speech signal prior to voice coding. Solutions
implementing noise suppression as a separate preprocessing module prior to the
AMR speech encoder or as an embedded module operating on the input speech
buffer were considered. AMR Noise Suppression (AMR-NS) is intended to be used
in the mobile station (operating on the uplink speech signal). The possibility
to implement AMR Noise Suppression in the network (operating on the downlink
speech signal) was considered for feasibility purposes only. As part of this
study, tests with noise suppression in both uplink and downlink (tandem noise
suppression) were included and the results are included in this report. It
should be noted that the Recommended Minimum Performance Requirements
Specification [TBA] covers only the uplink case where the algorithm is
implemented in the mobile station.
## 4.3 Presentation of the following clauses
The following clauses provide a summary of the Selection Phase test results,
including the results of objective performance measurements, and a record of
relevant other information for each of the candidate algorithms.
\- Clause 5 defines the minimum performance requirements defined for the
Selection Phase.
\- Clause 6 defines the means used to compare candidate algorithms directly in
terms of speech quality performance.
\- Clause 7 describes the subjective listening tests undertaken and summarises
the results achieved (covering the requirements of Clause 5 and the means of
comparison of Clause 6).
\- Clause 8 summarises the design constraints defined for the Selection Phase.
\- Clause 9 summarises the effect on the existing AMR Voice Activity Detector
(VAD) function, in the form of voice activity factor (VAF) measurements.
\- Clause 10 summarises the results of an Objective Performance Measure used
to characterise the noise suppression algorithms.
\- Clause 11 summarises the results of the Feasibility study into Implementing
Noise Suppression in the downlink.
Annex A contains the final versions of the Design Constraints, Selection
Rules, and Selection Phase Deliverables defined for the Selection Phase
Annex B (a separate component of the archive file comprising this report) is
the final version of the Selection Phase Test Plan.
Annex C (a separate component of the archive file comprising this report) is
the final version of the Selection Phase Global Analysis Spreadsheet, and is
the full record of the results achieved from the subjective listening tests.
Annex D contains the methodologies used to derive signal to noise ratio
improvement values from the subjective listening tests.
Annex E defines the methodology used to generate the objective measures of
performance reported in clause 10.
Annex F defines the methodology used to determine impact on Voice Activity
Factor.
Annex G provides a reference list of SMG11 temporary documents which contain
relevant information used during the Selection Phase. This includes references
to the final versions of the reports provided by the listening laboratories.
# 5 Minimum Performance Requirements
Performance requirements were established during the AMR-NS development phase
which reflected the understanding that there was no clear risk-free means of
identifying minimum performance, because this was the first time such a
standardisation effort for noise suppression functionality had been undertaken
in ETSI. As a result, failure to meet some minimum performance requirements
was not considered to be a reason for disqualification, particularly if such
failures were not consistent across all listening laboratories undertaking a
particular test (where the term systematic failure is used to describe
failures consistent across laboratories).
Table 5.1 lists the minimum requirements as stated in the Stage 1
specification [2] and, for each requirement, defines the associated experiment
or experiments defined to check compliance to the requirement. In each case a
criterion is defined to determine failure to meet the requirement. The
reference condition is AMR without noise suppression in all cases, except for
the evaluation of speech quality during the Initial Convergence Time
(Experiment 1).
The possibility to implement AMR Noise Suppression in the network (operating
on the downlink speech signal) was defined to be part of a feasibility study.
This is considered further in Clause 11.
Table 5.1: Minimum performance requirements
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Associated Clause in | Requirement (Title) | Relevant Tests | | Stage 1 Description | | | | [2] | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 4.6.1.1 | Initial Convergence | Experiment 1: | | | | Expert/Informal | | | | listening test | | | | | | | | Any candidate for | | | | which the Listening | | | | Experts determine | | | | that the quality | | | | degradation in the | | | | initial convergence | | | | time is unacceptable | | | | will be regarded as | | | | failing the | | | | requirement. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 4.6.1.2 | No degradation in | Experiment 2: | | | clean speech | Degradation in Clean | | | | (Pair comparison) | | | | | | | | Any candidate | | | | failing to be | | | | preferred with a 50% | | | | probability in any | | | | test condition will | | | | be regarded as | | | | failing the | | | | requirement | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 4.6.1.3/4.6.1.4 | No artefacts in | Experiment 3: | | | residual noise & No | Performance in | | | speech clipping or | Background Noise | | | reduction in | (ACR) | | | intelligibility | | | | | A candidate failing | | | | to be at least as | | | | good as AMR without | | | | NS at the same noise | | | | level will be | | | | regarded as failing | | | | the requirement | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 4.6.1.5 | AMR+NS preferred to | Experiments 4-10: | | | AMR without NS | Performance under | | | | background noise. | | | | Any candidate | | | | failing to be | | | | preferred to the | | | | reference (AMR | | | | without NS) with a | | | | 95% probability for | | | | any condition will | | | | be regarded as | | | | failing the | | | | requirement. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 4.8 | Voice Activity | Test defined in | | | Factor | [3] clause 4.8:Any | | | | candidate failing to | | | | meet the requirement | | | | stated in clause 4.8 | | | | of [2] will be | | | | regarded as failing | | | | the requirement. | | | | (This requirement | | | | states that the use | | | | of noise suppression | | | | should not | | | | significantly | | | | increase channel | | | | activity when used | | | | in conjunction with | | | | DTX.) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The total number of simple failures and number of systematic failures (failure
of the same test condition in all tests performed for the same experiment)
were recorded and the candidates were ranked accordingly.
In order to generate additional information, the candidates were also ranked
according to the number of simple and systematic failures, assuming that a
candidate only fails as a result of Experiments 4-10 if it is not found at
least as good as the reference at the 95% confidence interval.
# 6 Comparison of Candidates by Subjective Means
A number of means of ranking candidates were developed based on figures of
merit (FOMs). These FOMs were derived from the listening test results and are
defined below. The FOMs covering downlink operation are not included (see
Clause 11), and FOMs defined in the Selection Rules which are not distinct are
also not included. (It was originally intended to use weighted FOMs in
addition to unweighted FOMs. Since no agreements were reached on weightings,
the weighted FOMs are identical to the unweighted FOMs, and are therefore not
reported here.) Additionally, FOMs not associated with subjective listening
test results are not included.
Two sets of Figure of Merits are described here. The FOM numbering definitions
used during the Selection Phase are retained for ease of cross-referencing.
The first set (FoMs#1, 3, 4, 6) is based on the CCR test results (AMR/NS
Selection Experiments 4 to 9). The second set (FoMs#7, 10) is derived from the
ACR Test results.
> FOM#1 Summation of CMOS scores for all conditions within an experiment,
> summed (unweighted) across all experiments, excluding all conditions
> including NS in the downlink direction.
>
> Repeat measures as per FOM#1above but restricted to:
FOM#3a All conditions where the SNR >= 10dB (but not including conditions
where the SNR >= 30dB)
FOM#3c All conditions where the SNR \ Repeat measures as per FOM#1 above but restricted to:
FOM#4a All conditions with DTX on
FOM#4b All conditions with DTX off
> Subjective SNR improvement per Noise Type based on the CCR test results
> evaluated using the methodology defined in Annex?:
>
> FOM#6a For car noise
>
> FOM#6b For street noise
>
> FOM#6c For babble noise
>
> FOM#7a Summation of the delta MOS scores per Experiment summed across all
> ACR Experiments (Experiment 3 and 10), excluding all test conditions using
> noise suppression in the downlink direction. The delta MOS score is
> identified as the difference between the MOS score obtained by the candidate
> for a specific test condition and the MOS score for the reference (AMR
> without noise suppression) in the same test condition.
>
> FOM#7b Unweighted summation of the delta dBq scores per Experiment summed
> across all ACR Experiments (Experiment 3 and 10), excluding all test
> conditions using noise suppression in the downlink direction. The delta dBq
> score is identified as the difference between the dBq score obtained by the
> candidate for a specific test condition and the dBq score for the reference
> (AMR without noise suppression) in the same test condition. When a dBq score
> is outside the linear part of the MNRU curve, it should be replaced by the
> dBq value obtained by replacing the non-linear part of the MNRU curve with a
> linear extrapolation with slope 0.05. The linear part of the MNRU curve is
> identified as the area of the _MOS=f(dBq)_ curve where the slope is higher
> than 0.05.
>
> FOM#10 Subjective SNR improvement per Noise Type based on the ACR test
> results evaluated using the methodology defined in Annex
>
> FOM#10a For car noise.
>
> FOM#10b For street noise.
>
> FOM#10c For babble noise.
# 7 Selection Phase Listening Tests and Results
The candidates were referred to as NS1, NS2,..., NS6 during the analysis. The
mapping to particular candidates is defined below.
\- NS1 = Mitsubishi Electric Corporation
\- NS2 = Siemens AG
\- NS3 = Nokia
\- NS4 = Matra Nortel Communications
\- NS5 = Ericsson
\- NS6 = Motorola
## 7.1 Summary of Selection Tests undertaken
The six candidates were tested in a variety of test conditions in 5
independent test laboratories. Testing was carried out using 6 languages. The
tests took place during a period from September to November 1999.
Candidate performances were evaluated across many test conditions consisting
of 10 experiments and 14 sub-experiments [Annex B]:
_[Experiment 1:]{.underline} Quality During the Initial Convergence Time
(informal test)_
_[Experiment 2:]{.underline} Degradation in Clean Speech (pair comparison
test)_
_[Experiment 3:]{.underline} Artefacts and Clipping Effects in Background
Noise Conditions (ACR test)_
_Experiment 3a: car noise_
_Experiment 3b: street noise_
_Experiment 3c: babble noise_
_[Experiments 4 and 5:]{.underline} Performances in Background Noise
Conditions (CCR test)_
_Experiment 4a: low SNR, with AMR 5.9 kbit/s_
_Experiment 4b: high SNR, with AMR 5.9 kbit/s_
_Experiment 5a: low SNR, with AMR 12.2 kbit/s_
_Experiment 5b: high SNR, with AMR 12.2 kbit/s_
_[Experiments 6 and 7:]{.underline} Performance in Background Noise: Influence
of Propagation Errors (CCR test)_
_Experiment 6: car noise at SNR of 6 dB with C/I=10 dB in uplink and error-
free in downlink_
Experiment 7: street noise at SNR of 9 dB with C/I=10 dB in uplink and error-
free in downlink
[Experiments 8 and 9:]{.underline} Performances in Background Noise: Influence
of VAD/DTX (CCR test)
[Experiment 10:]{.underline} Influence of the Input Signal + Noise Level and
Performances with Special Noises (ACR test)
Experiment 1 is an informal test with expert listeners analysing any negative
impact the noise suppressers may have during convergence time. Experiment 2 is
based on pair comparison to test if there is any degradation when using noise
suppression compared to the coder without noise suppression. Experiment 3 is
an Absolute Category Rating (ACR) test analysing any artefacts and clipping
effects in background noise. Experiments 4 to 9 are Comparison Category Rating
(CCR) tests analysing performances in background noise conditions with and
without propagation errors, and also the influence of VAD/DTX. Experiment 10
is an ACR test investigating the influence of the level of input signal and
noise, and also assessing the performance for special noise types.
Most of the testing was carried out either as ACR or CCR tests. These two
differ from each other in the methodology. ACR tests ask the listeners to
assess the quality of each speech sample under test while CCR tests are based
on asking the listeners to assess the quality differences between two samples.
ACR and CCR tests are both well established and recognised speech quality
testing methodologies.
The listening test laboratories performing the selection tests were: Arcon
(English language), AT&T (Mandarin, Spanish and English), Nortel Networks
(English), FUB (Italian), and COMSAT (French, Spanish and Japanese). All
experiments and sub-experiments were carried out with 2 languages. The
allocation of experiments to listening laboratories, and the languages used
for each experiment, are shown in Table 7.1.
Table 7.1: Allocation of Experiments to Listening Laboratories
+----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Arcon | AT&T | Nortel | FUB | COMSAT | | | | | Networks | | | +----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | English | Mandarin | English | Italian | French, | | | | | | | Spanish, | | | | Spanish, | | | or | | | | or | | | Japanese | | | | | | | | | | | English | | | | +----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1 | | | _X_ | | * | | | | | | | Spanish _| +----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 2 |_ X _| | | |_ French _| +----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 3a |_ X _| | |_ X _| | +----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 3b |_ X _| | |_ X _| | +----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 3c |_ X _| | |_ X _| | +----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 4a | | |_ X _| | * | | | | | | | Spanish_ | +----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 4b | | | _X_ | | * | | | | | | | Spanish _| +----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 5a | | |_ X _| | * | | | | | | | Spanish_ | +----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 5b | | | _X_ | | * | | | | | | | Spanish _| +----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 6 | | * |_ X _| | | | | | Spanish_ | | | | +----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 7 | | * | _X_ | | | | | | Spanish _| | | | +----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8 | |_ M | | | | | | | andarin, | | | | | | | English _| | | | +----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 9 | |_ M | | | | | | | andarin, | | | | | | | English _| | | | +----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 10 |_ X _| | | |_ J | | | | | | | apanese _| +----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Host lab | ARCON |_ COMSAT _| ARCON |_ COMSAT _|_ COMSAT* | +----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
The reference conditions were processed by Arcon and COMSAT, while the test
samples were processed through the candidate algorithms by the candidate
organisations themselves and were cross checked by other candidates. A blind
procedure was followed to ensure that the test laboratories and the test
subjects had no knowledge of the test conditions.
## 7.2 Summary of Listening Test Results Covering Minimum Performance
Requirements
The candidates were ranked according to the number of simple and systematic
failures (with the latter meaning failure of the same test condition in all
tests performed for the same experiment).
All candidate algorithms failed to fulfil some of the minimum performance
requirements. Table 7.2 records the number of failures and the ranking for
each candidate according to the minimum performance requirements as stated in
Table 5.1 (excluding those not associated with listening tests).
Table 7.2: Failures per candidate using the Minimum Performance Requirements
* * *
**Simple Failures (excluding noise suppression in the downlink)** 5 6 9 9 9 13
**1\. NS5** **2\. NS2** 3\. NS3 **3\. NS4** **3\. NS6** **6\. NS1**
**Systematic Failures (excluding noise suppression in the downlink)** 2 2 2 2
2 4 **1\. NS2** **1\. NS3** **1\. NS4** **1\. NS5** **1\. NS6** **6\. NS1**
* * *
Additionally results for the number of failures and the rankings are presented
in Table 7.3 where the requirements of Table 5.1 are relaxed for Experiments
4-10 such that a failure is noted if a candidate is not found at least as good
as the reference (AMR without noise suppression) at the 95% confidence
interval (\"equal or better than\" criterion).
Table 7.3: Failures per candidate using Relaxed Performance Requirements
* * *
**Simple Failures (excluding noise suppression in the downlink)** 0 2 3 5 5 7
**1\. NS5** **2\. NS2** **3\. NS3** **4\. NS4** **4\. NS6** **6\. NS1**
**Systematic Failures (excluding noise suppression in the downlink)** 0 0 0 0
0 1  
**1\. NS2** **1\. NS3** **1\. NS4** **1\. NS5** **1\. NS6** **6\. NS1**
* * *
It can be readily seen (Annex C) that all candidates have systematic failures
in Experiment 10 for two special noise types: music noise and multiple
interfering talkers. For additional information, the calculation of the number
of failures (and the rankings) was carried out also for the case when music
noise and multiple interfering talker noise (in Experiment 10) are excluded in
the analysis, but where otherwise the Minimum Performance criteria of Table
5.1 are applied. This is justified by noting that it is not at all clear
whether noise suppression functionality should attempt to suppress such
background signals.
Table 7.4: Failures per candidate excluding Conditions with Music and
Interfering Talkers
* * *
**Simple Failures (excluding noise suppression in the downlink)** 1 2 5 5 5 9
**1\. NS5** **2\. NS2** **3\. NS3** **3\. NS4** **3\. NS6** **6\. NS1**
**Systematic Failures (excluding noise suppression in the downlink)** 0 0 0 0
0 2 **1\. NS2** **1\. NS3** **1\. NS4** **1\. NS5** **1\. NS6** **6\. NS1**
* * *
## 7.3 Summary of Listening Test Results Covering Comparison of Candidates
This summary is presented in the form of tables of the FOMs defined in Clause
6. It should be noted that SMG11 had stated that FOM#1 is the preferred Figure
of Merit. This measures the ability of the solutions to suppress noise in
terms of resulting speech quality compared to the non-suppressed speech.
Having said this, it is clear that other Figures of Merit are significant
In particular note should be taken of FOM#7, derived from Experiment 3 which
is used to detect unnatural effects in the noise-suppressed signal. In
analysing the results according to FOM#10, it should be noted that Experiment
3 is designed to look for unnatural effects in the noise suppressed speech and
turned out to be sensitive to distortions, which may cause the difference in
the obtained FOM results compared to FOM#6. Experiment 3 has a large influence
in FOM#10; hence the low and often negative values for this FOM.
None of the Figures of Merit listed below are intended to serve as a single
selection criterion.
* * *
**FOM#1** 21.0962 17.0745 15.9298 15.5055 12.0572 12.0193 **NS6** **NS4**
**NS2** **NS1** **NS3** **NS5** **FOM#3a** 8.2708 6.8802 5.8854 5.7708 4.8906
4.7969 **NS6** **NS4** **NS1** **NS2** **NS5** **NS3** **FOM#3c** 12.8253
10.1943 10.1590 9.6201 7.2603 7.1287 **NS6** **NS4** **NS2** **NS1** **NS3**
**NS5** **FOM#4a** 2.4167 1.9531 1.9167 1.6510 1.6302 1.5156 **NS6** **NS2**
**NS4** **NS1** **NS5** **NS3** **FOM#4b** 18.6795 15.1578 13.9767 13.8545
10.5416 10.3801 **NS6** **NS4** **NS2** **NS1** **NS3** **NS5** **FOM#6a**
8.3969 7.9714 7.8701 6.6958 6.6818 5.9484 **NS6** **NS4** **NS2** **NS5**
**NS1** **NS3** **FOM#6b** 10.1798 8.0699 7.258 7.1044 5.824 4.2657 **NS6**
**NS4** **NS1** **NS2** **NS3** **NS5** **FOM#6c** 7.9647 6.2515 5.9248 4.5490
3.9159 2.85 **NS6** **NS1** **NS4** **NS2** **NS3** **NS5** **FOM#7a** 6.5104
5.3229 4.8125 3.8021 3.4688 3.2917 **NS5** **NS2** **NS4** **NS3** **NS6**
**NS1** **FOM#7b** 4.2432 -2.3479 -9.1099 -20.4534 -31.8353 -42.9414 **NS5**
**NS2** **NS3** **NS4** **NS1** **NS6** **FOM#10a** 3.0387 1.7575 1.5281
1.4948 1.0221 0.127 **NS5** **NS4** **NS2** **NS1** **NS3** **NS6**
**FOM#10b** 0.641 -0.1528 -0.1573 -0.2158 -0.9801 -3.2787 **NS5** **NS1**
**NS4** **NS2** **NS3** **NS6** **FOM#10c** -0.9665 -3.1681 -4.3471 -8.2638
-8.9911 -10.5122 **NS5** **NS3** **NS2** **NS4** **NS6** **NS1**
* * *
## 7.4 Graphical Representation of Results from all Formal Listening Tests
This clause provides the results of all 14 sub-experiments from all labs in
graphical form. For more detailed information see Annex C. Note these graphs
have been imported directly from the Global Analysis spreadsheet, and
therefore also contain data for noise suppression in tandem in the uplink and
downlink (which formed part of the feasibility study).
The following abbreviations are used in conjunction with these graphs:
\@x Defined bit rate of AMR speech codec
AMR/NS AMR with noise suppression active
DL Downlink
T1 Single Connection, i.e. noise suppression present in the uplink only
T2 Tandem Connection, i.e. noise suppression present in the uplink and the
downlink
UL Uplink
w/DTX with VAD/DTX active
w/tandem Tandem connection (mobile to mobile) with noise suppression active in
the uplink and downlink legs of the connection.
### 7.4.1 Experiment 2: Degradation in Clean Speech (pair comparison test)
{width="4.774305555555555in" height="2.5236111111111112in"}
Figure 7.1: Experiment 2 Results: English Language
{width="4.772916666666666in" height="2.5277777777777777in"}
Figure 7.2: Experiment 2 Results: French Language
### 7.4.2 Experiment 3: Artifacts and Clipping in Background Noise
#### 7.4.2.1 Car Noise
{width="3.502083333333333in" height="2.1215277777777777in"}
Figure 7.3: Experiment 3 Results: Car Noise, English Language
{width="3.501388888888889in" height="2.147222222222222in"}
Figure 7.4: Experiment 3 Results: Car Noise, Italian Language
#### 7.4.2.2 Street Noise
{width="3.4in" height="2.136111111111111in"}
Figure 7.5: Experiment 3 Results:Street Noise, English Language
{width="3.4006944444444445in" height="2.1326388888888888in"}
Figure 7.6: Experiment 3 Results: Street Noise, Italian Language
#### 7.4.2.3 Babble Noise
{width="3.397222222222222in" height="2.1430555555555557in"}
Figure 7.7: Experiment 3 Results:Babble Noise, English Language
{width="3.3986111111111112in" height="2.14375in"}
Figure 7.8: Experiment 3 Results: Babble Noise, Italian Language
### 7.4.3 Experiment 4: Performance in Background Noise (5.9kbps AMR Speech
Codec)
{width="4.097916666666666in" height="2.6194444444444445in"}
Figure 7.9: Experiment 4 Results: Low SNR, English Language
{width="4.202083333333333in" height="2.6618055555555555in"}
Figure 7.10: Experiment 4 Results: Low SNR, Spanish Language
{width="4.098611111111111in" height="2.598611111111111in"}
Figure 7.11: Experiment 4 Results: High SNR, English Language
{width="4.098611111111111in" height="2.598611111111111in"}
Figure 7.12: Experiment 4 Results: High SNR, Spanish Language
### 7.4.4 Experiment 5: Performance in Background Noise (12.2kbps AMR Speech
Codec)
{width="4.098611111111111in" height="2.598611111111111in"}
Figure 7.13: Experiment 5 Results: Low SNR, English Language
{width="4.114583333333333in" height="2.609027777777778in"}
Figure 7.14: Experiment 5 Results: Low SNR, Spanish Language
{width="4.098611111111111in" height="2.598611111111111in"}
Figure 7.15: Experiment 5 Results: High SNR, English Language
{width="4.008333333333334in" height="2.5416666666666665in"}
Figure 7.16: Experiment 5 Results: High SNR, Spanish Language
### 7.4.5 Experiment 6: Performance in Background Noise with Channel Errors
(Car Noise with 6dB SNR)
{width="3.6881944444444446in" height="2.4381944444444446in"}
Figure 7.17: Experiment 6 Results: English Language
{width="3.7020833333333334in" height="2.438888888888889in"}
Figure 7.18: Experiment 6 Results: Spanish Language
### 7.4.6 Experiment 7: Performance in Background Noise with Channel Errors
(Street Noise with 9dB SNR)
{width="3.7993055555555557in" height="2.5055555555555555in"}
Figure 7.19: Experiment 7 Results: English Language
{width="3.6979166666666665in" height="2.475in"}
Figure 7.20: Experiment 7 Results: Spanish Language
### 7.4.7 Experiment 8: Performance in Car Noise with VAD/DTX active (VAD
Option 1)
NOTE: The SNR for the car noise conditions in this experiment was set to 6dB.
{width="4.092361111111111in" height="2.745138888888889in"}
Figure 7.21: Experiment 8 Results: English Language
{width="4.100694444444445in" height="2.7472222222222222in"}
Figure 7.22: Experiment 8 Results: Mandarin Language
### 7.4.8 Experiment 9: Performance in Street Noise with VAD/DTX active (VAD
Option 2)
NOTE: The SNR for the street noise conditions in this experiment was set to
9dB.
{width="4.101388888888889in" height="2.7527777777777778in"}
Figure 7.23: Experiment 9 Results: English Language
{width="4.097916666666666in" height="2.748611111111111in"}
Figure 7.24: Experiment 9 Results: Mandarin Language
### 7.4.9 Experiment 10: Influence of Input Signal Level and Special Noise
Types
#### 7.4.9.1 Influence of Input Level
{width="4.497222222222222in" height="2.720138888888889in"}
Figure 7.25: Experiment 10 Results: Effect of Input Level, Car Noise, English
Language
{width="4.476388888888889in" height="2.7125in"}
Figure 7.26: Experiment 10 Results: Effect of Input Level, Car Noise, Japanese
Language
#### 7.4.9.2 Performance with Special Noise Types
{width="4.497222222222222in" height="2.734722222222222in"}
Figure 7.27: Experiment 10 Results: Special Noises, English Language
{width="4.501388888888889in" height="2.736111111111111in"}
Figure 7.28: Experiment 10 Results: Special Noises, Japanese Language
# 8 Design Constraints
This clause summarises the design constraints (limits on complexity, delay)
and details the related values for all the candidates who took part in the
Selection Phase.
Both the requirements (limits) and values for each candidate are provided in
the Table 8.1.
In the context of this table, the following definitions are made. The DSP that
runs the algorithm has been modelled through three parameters E, S and P.
**E** stands for the Efficiency of the DSP. This corresponds to the ratio
TMOPS/WMOPS of the implementation of the codec on the DSP. **S** stands for
the Speed of the DSP: Maximum Number of Operations that the DSP can run in 1
second. This number is expressed in MOPS. **P** stands for the percentage of
DSP processing power assigned to the codec. The processing delay of a task
whose complexity is X can then be computed using the formula: D = X*20/ESP,
the time unit being ms.
Table 8.1: Summary of Design Constraints Information.
* * *
                                                         **NS1**      **NS2**                                             **NS3**                                            **NS4**      **NS5**         **NS6**         **Requirement**
**WMOPS** 2,910 3,386 2,432 3,623 4,472 3,934 5,000  
**Dynamic RAM (words)** _770_ _2234_ _781_ _768_ _1529_ _1073_ _3039_  
**Static RAM (words)** 262 718 168 577 850 239 1500  
**Data ROM (words)** 312 863 302 731 877 537 1000  
**Program ROM (basic ETSI operations)** 754 772 1018 907 884 581 2000
**Delay (ms)** 5,00 5,00 0,00 2,00 0,00 5,00 7,00  
**Delay-stand alone (ms)** 5,00 5,00 1,50 10,75 0,00 5,00  
**Implementation** _embedded_ _stand alone_ _embedded_ _embedded_ _stand
alone_ _embedded_
**FOM(1)** 5,72 8,49 5,38 8,33 10,34 6,48 15,80  
**FOM(2)\@ESP25** 7,33 7,71 1,95 4,90 3,58 8,15 11,00  
**FOM(2)\@ESP50** 6,16 6,35 0,97 3,45 1,79 6,57 9,00  
**FOM(2)\@ESP100** 5,58 5,68 0,49 2,72 0,89 5,79 8,00
**FOM(1) = WMOPS + 2*sRAM + (2/5)*dROM + 2*pROM** **sRam, dROM in kbytes, pROM
in kbasic ETSI ops**  
**FOM(2) = delay(proc) + delay(algor)** **delay(proc) = WMOPS * 20 /(E*S*P));
in ms**
* * *
# 9 Impact on Voice Activity Factor VAF (with VAD/DTX active)
The Selection Phase Requirement concerning impact on VAD/DTX stated that the
AMR speech codec with noise suppression activated should not significantly
increase channel activity when used in conjunction with DTX.
Table 9.1 details the VAF increase for each candidate for each VAD option, as
an average across all tested speech plus noise samples. In this table a
positive value denotes an increase in VAF, whereas a negative value denotes a
decrease in VAF.
Table 9.1: Summary of Impact on VAF
* * *
Candidate NS1 NS2 NS3 NS4 NS5 NS6 VAF increase for VAD Option 1 (%) +1.77
+2.72 +0.11 -0.79 +0.20 +0.68 VAF increase for VAD Option 2 (%) +0.09 +0.30
+0.00 -2.22 -0.42 +0.03
* * *
# 10 Objective Performance Measurements
A tool was used to generate objective measures of performance (in terms of
speech quality). This information is regarded as additional, and is in all
cases secondary to the results obtained by subjective listening (as reported
in Clause 7). Two measures were undertaken on a subset of the material
utilised in the listening tests. These were Noise Power Level Reduction (NPLR)
and Signal to Noise Improvement (SNRI). Further details can be found in Annex
E. The following tables provide the results of the analysis for each
candidate, which details the NPLR results per noise type for each candidate.
Table 10.1: NPLR Results Summary
* * *
                     **NS1**   **NS2**   **NS3**   **NS4**   **NS5**   **NS6**
**Car Noise** -8,43 -7,35 -7,53 -8,50 -8,40 -10,99 **Street noise** -5,79
-2,23 -4,21 -5,75 -3,93 -5,37 **Babble noise** -3,70 -0,47 -0,98 -2,42 -0,81
-0,78
* * *
# 11 Feasibility Study: Downlink Noise Suppression for AMR
During the selection testing of the NS candidates, conditions including the
noise suppression algorithm in the downlink path were tested. The aim was to
assess the feasibility of putting the noise suppression algorithm in the
network on the downlink path. Because the selection process was focused on the
uplink, those conditions were not taken into account in the selection results.
However, results are available and are noted here.
It was decided not to test the downlink path in isolation to avoid doubling
the amount of testing required. Moreover, to perform a fair comparison, no
different tuning of algorithm behaviour was allowed between the downlink and
the uplink noise suppression algorithms.
The following table records the number of failures for each candidate in the
conditions including noise suppression in the downlink (i.e. self-tandeming of
the noise suppression algorithm). In total there were 26 conditions including
noise suppression in the downlink.
Table 11.1: Failures per candidate for conditions including noise suppression
in the downlink using the Minimum Performance Requirements
* * *
**Simple Failures (noise suppression in the downlink)** 5 5 10 10 12 14 **1\.
NS3** **1\. NS5** **3\. NS1** **3\. NS6** **5\. NS4** **6\. NS2** **Systematic
Failures (noise suppression in the downlink)** 0 0 3 3 4 5 **1\. NS3** **1\.
NS5** **3\. NS1** **3\. NS4** **1\. NS6** **6\. NS2**
* * *
Additionally results for the number of failures are presented in Table 11.2
where the requirements are relaxed for Experiments 6-9 such that a failure is
noted if a candidate is not found at least as good as the reference at the 95%
confidence interval (\"equal or better than\" criterion).
Table 11.2: Failures per candidate for conditions including noise suppression
in the downlink using the Relaxed Performance Requirements
* * *
**Simple Failures (noise suppression in the downlink)** 3 3 4 6 7 7 **1\.
NS3** **1\. NS5** **3\. NS1** **3\. NS6** **5\. NS2** **6\. NS4** **Systematic
Failures (noise suppression in the downlink)** 0 0 1 2 2 2 **1\. NS3** **1\.
NS5** **3\. NS1** **3\. NS2** **1\. NS4** **6\. NS6**
* * *
The following table presents the FOMs defined for the cases with noise
suppression in the downlink. FOM#5 is the summation of CMOS scores for all
conditions in the CCR tests including noise suppression in the downlink.
FOM#9a is the summation of all delta MOS scores for all conditions in the ACR
tests including noise suppression in the downlink.
* * *
**FOM#5** 6.4739 6.4304 6.0918 5.7097 5.5772 5.5003 **NS5** **NS6** **NS4**
**NS2** **NS1** **NS3** **FOM#9a** -1.5833 -2.3958 -2.8958 -3.8958 -4.1667
-4.4583 **NS5** **NS3** **NS2** **NS4** **NS1** **NS6**
* * *
###### ### Annex A: Key Selection Phase Documents
All the following documents can be found on the ETSI FTP site:
http://docbox.etsi.org/tech-org/smg/Document/smg11/SMG11_amr_ns/NS_Sel_Phase/
Design constraints: AMR-NS_Design_Constraints1.0.doc
Selection Phase Deliverables: Deliverables1-1.doc
Selection Rules: NSSelRules1.1.doc
Processing functions ProcFunc_v012.zip
###### ### Annex B: Selection Phase Test Plan
See associated file Test-plan.doc.
###### ### Annex C: Global Analysis Spreadsheet
See associated files AMR-NS_CCR_v1.xls, AMR-NS_MOS_v1.xls.
###### ### Annex D: Methodologies for Measuring Subjective SNR Improvement
# D.1 CCR Experiments
The purpose of experiments 4&5 is to evaluate the performances of the NS
algorithms in background noise conditions with two different bit-rates (5.9
kbps and 12.2 kbps). For these experiments three types of noise have been
selected: car noise, street noise and babble noise. For each type of noise two
different nominal SNR levels have been set:
* * *
Noise type SNR sub-exp. a [dB] SNR sub-exp. b[dB] Car 6 12 Street 9 15 Babble
9 15
* * *
For each sub-experiment and for each type of noise three (two for babble
noise) ideal NS reference conditions will be processed:
* * *
Ideal SNR improvement SNR sub-exp. +4 dB SNR sub-exp. +7 dB SNR sub-exp. +10
dB [^1]
* * *
Each ideal NS will be compared during the sub-experiment with the speech+noise
signals mixed at the nominal SNR levels. This lead to a total number of CCR
reference results of 3 per sub-experiment (2 for the babble noise)
corresponding to 3 (2 for the babble noise) SNR improvement levels. By
connecting adjacent point by straight lines we will obtain a graph giving a
correspondence between CCR notes and perceived SNR improvement (cf. figure
D.1).
Finally the perceived SNR improvement for an AMR-NS candidate is obtained for
each candidate using the CCR vs SNR graph as illustrated in figure D.1.
{width="6.781944444444444in" height="3.640972222222222in"}
Figure D.1: Example of CCR versus SNR improvement graph\ O: ideal NS score,
*:AMR-NS candidate score.
**Ranking for CCR experiments**
The ranking of different algorithms is obtained by using a weighted sum of the
perceived SNR improvement for each candidate according to:
{width="6.375in" height="0.4305555555555556in"}
where SNRimp_ny is the perceived SNR improvement for sub-experiment number ny.
In this expression a higher weight is given to results obtained with a lower
nominal SNR levels cause it is generally easier to discriminate the NS
algorithms in the lower SNR.
# D.2 ACR Experiments
The methodology for evaluating the subjective SNR improvement for the ACR
tests (Experiments 3 a, b, and c) is similar to the methodology used for the
CCR tests. For each Experiment a, b, and c (car noise, street noise, and
babble noise) the performance is evaluated for two different SNR levels,
resulting in two sub-experiments per experiment:
* * *
Experiment Noise type SNR sub-exp 1 [dB] SNR sub-exp 2 [dB] 3a Car noise 6 12
3b Street noise 9 15 3c Babble noise 9 15
* * *
For each noise type in sub-experiment 1 (the lower SNR) the material will be
processed with an ideal NS reference with attenuation of 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12
dB. For each noise type in sub-experiment 2 (the higher SNR) the material will
be processed with an ideal NS reference of 4, 6, 8, 10 dB. (Note that some of
the conditions in the sub-experiments will result in similar total SNR.
However the speech sample randomization differs between the two sub-
experiments). By connecting the ACR score for adjacent ideal NS reference
attenuation points by straight lines, graphs giving correspondence between ACR
scores and perceived SNR improvement is obtained (cf. Figure D.2) for each
noise type in each sub-experiment. Similarly to the case for the CCR
Experiments, the perceived SNR improvement for an AMR-NS candidate is obtained
using the ACR vs SNR graph as illustrated in Figure D.2.
{width="5.625in" height="4.438194444444444in"}
Figure D.2. Example of ACR versus SNR improvement graph\ X: ideal NS score,
*:AMR-NS candidate score.
**Ranking for ACR experiments**
The ranking of the different AMR-NS candidates for each noise type is obtained
by averaging the subjective SNR improvement values for each of the two sub-
experiments.
###### ### Annex E: Methodology for NS performance evaluation by Objective
Means
This annex presents a two objective measures that were used in the AMR/NS
selection phase for characterising the performance of the noise suppression
(NS) candidate solutions.
**NEW proposals for objective measures and TEST SIGNALS**
**Notations**
The following notations are used in the formulation of the objective measures.
\- The operator AMR(⋅) corresponds to applying the AMR speech encoder and
decoder on the input.
\- The operator NR(⋅) corresponds to applying the NS algorithm, and the AMR
speech encoder and decoder on the input.
\- The clean speech signals will be referred as **s~I~_, i = 1 to I_**.
\- The noise signals will be referred as **n~j~_, j = 1 to J_**.
\- The noisy speech test signals will be referred as **d~Ij~ = β~ij~(SNR)
n~j~+ s~i~_, i = 1 to I, j = 1 to J_** , where d~ij~ is built by adding s~i~
and n~j~ with a pre-specified SNR as presented below.
\- The processed signal will be referred as **y~ij~ = NR (d~ij~)** , the
operator NR(⋅) referring to the processing by the NS algorithm and the AMR
speech codec.
\- The reference signal in the calculations shall be either the noisy speech
test signal d~ij~ itself or d~ij~ processed by the AMR speech codec without NS
processing. The latter signal will be referred to as **c~Ij~ = AMR (d~ij~)_, i
= 1 to I, j = 1 to J_** , where the operator AMR(⋅) refers to processing by
the AMR speech codec with no NS. The relevant reference signal will be
indicated in the formulation of each objective measure below.
\- The notation _Log_(⋅) indicates the decimal logarithm.
**\- β~ij~(SNR)** is the scaling factor to be applied to the background noise
signal **n~i~** in order to have a ratio **SNR** (in dB) between the clean
speech signal **s~i\ ~** and **n~j~**. The scaling of the input speech and
noise signals is to be carried according to the following procedure:
\- The clean speech material is scaled to a desired dBov level with the ITU‑T
recommendation P.56 [9] speech voltmeter, one file at a time, each file
including a sequence of one to four utterances from one speaker.
\- A silence period of 2 s is inserted in the beginning of each of the
resulting files to make up augmented clean speech files.
\- Within each noise type and level, a noise sequence is selected for every
speech utterance file, each with the same length as the corresponding speech
files, and each noise sequence is stored in a separate file.
\- Each of the noise sequences is scaled to a dBov level leading to the SNR
condition corresponding to the **β~ij~(SNR)** value in each of the test cases
by applying the RMS level based scaling according to the P.56 [9]
recommendation.
\- The determination of which frames contain active speech is to be carried
out with reference to the ITU‑T recommendation P.56 [9] active speech level
measurement and is related to the classification of the frames into the
presented speech power classes which is explained below.
**Test material**
The test material should manifest at least the following extent:
\- Clean speech utterance sequences: 6 utterances from 4 speakers - 2 male and
2 female - totalling 24 utterances;
Noise sequences:
\- car interior noise, 120 km/h, fairly constant power level;
\- street noise, slowly varying power level.
Special care should be taken to ensure that the original samples fulfill the
following requirements:
\- the clean speech signals are of a relatively constant average (within
sample, where \'sample\' refers to a file containing one or more utterances)
power level;
\- the noise signals are of a short-time stationary nature with no rapid
changes in the power level and no speech-like components.
Preferably, the test signals should cover the following background noise and
SNR conditions:
\- car noise at 3 dB, 6 dB, 9 dB, 12 dB and 15 dB;
\- street noise at 6 dB, 9 dB, 12 dB, 15 dB and 18 dB.
A feasible subset of these conditions giving a practically useful indication
of the achieved performance would be:
\- car noise at 6 dB and 12 dB;
\- street noise at 9 dB and 15 dB.
The samples should be digitally filtered before NS and speech coding
processing by the MSIN filter to become representative of a real cellular
system frequency response.
**NOTE:** In the application of the presented objective measures, there is no
need to remove the 2 s initial convergence period referred to above after the
processing from the test material. Namely, the classification of the frames
being based on the clean speech signal and on comparisons to the active speech
level, no frames from the initial convergence period will be involved in any
of the measurements.
**Proposal for objective measures for NS performance assessment**
**Assessment of SNR improvement level.** The SNR improvement measure,
**_SNRI_** , measures the SNR improvement achieved by the NS algorithm. SNR
improvement is calculated separately in three frame power gated factors of
active speech signal, namely, high, medium and low power constituents of the
signal. These categories are used to characterise the effect of the NS
processing on speech, allowing to distinguish the effect on strong, medium and
weak speech. In addition to calculating the SNR improvement separately on the
three categories, they are used to form an aggregate measure.
The calculation is here presented for the high power speech class:
For each background noise condition j
For each speaker i
Construct a noisy input signal d~ij~ as follows:
d~ij~(n) = β~ij ~ n~j~(n) + s~i~(n)
where β~ij~ depends on the SNR condition according to the procedure described
above
c~ij~ = AMR (d~ij~)
y~ij~ = NR (d~ij~)
{width="2.875in" height="1.0694444444444444in"}
{width="2.7777777777777777in" height="1.0694444444444444in"}
{width="5.625in" height="0.5277777777777778in"} (1)
where _^k^~sph~_ and _K~sph~_ are the index and the total number of frames
containing speech of a high power
_^k^~nse~_ and _K~nse~_ are the corresponding index and total number of noise
only frames
$\xi > 0$ is a constant that should be set at 10^‑5^
SNRI_m~ij~ correspondingly for medium power frames
SNRI_l~ij~ correspondingly for low power frames
{width="5.236111111111111in" height="0.4861111111111111in"} (2)
{width="1.4166666666666667in" height="0.4722222222222222in"} (3)
{width="1.3611111111111112in" height="0.4861111111111111in"} (4)
In addition, measures for the SNR improvement in the high, medium and low
power speech classes (SNRI_h, SNRI_m, SNRI_l, respectively) shall be recorded
based on the following formulae:
{width="3.236111111111111in" height="0.4861111111111111in"} (5)
{width="3.361111111111111in" height="0.4861111111111111in"} (6)
{width="3.0965277777777778in" height="0.4861111111111111in"} (7)
To determine which frames belong to high, medium and low power classes of
active speech and which present pauses in the speech activity (noise only),
the active speech level (in dB) sp_lvl of the noise free speech s~i~(n) is
first determined according to the ITU‑T Recommendation P.56 [9]. Thereafter,
the frames are classified into the four classes as follows:
for all signal frames k
{width="2.861111111111111in" height="0.9722222222222222in"} (8)
if {width="1.7916666666666667in" height="0.2361111111111111in"}
{width="2.5416666666666665in" height="0.2916666666666667in"}
else if {width="1.8333333333333333in" height="0.2361111111111111in"}
{width="2.6666666666666665in" height="0.2916666666666667in"} (9)
else if {width="1.75in" height="0.2361111111111111in"}
{width="2.486111111111111in" height="0.2916666666666667in"}
else if {width="2.9305555555555554in" height="0.2361111111111111in"}
{width="2.5416666666666665in" height="0.2777777777777778in"}
where {width="0.3888888888888889in" height="0.19375in"} is a constant whose
value shall be such that in the dB scale, it shall be below sp_lvl + th_nl; a
value of 10^‑7^ should be used if sp_lvl = ‑26 dBov and th_nl = ‑34 dB, as
proposed below
th_h, th_m, th_l are pre-determined lower threshold power levels for
classifying the speech frames to the high, medium, and low power classes,
correspondingly.
We want to make the following notes on the formulation of the frame
classification:
1) The lower bound for the power of the noise-only class of frames is
motivated by a desire to restrict the analysis to noise frames that are among
or close the speech activity, hence excluding long pauses from the analysis.
This makes the analysis concentrate increasingly on the effects encountered
during speech activity.
2) We realise that in poor SNR conditions, the noise power level may occur to
be higher than the lower bound of some of the speech power classes. However,
even in this case, the information of the effect on the low power portions of
speech may be informative. Naturally, another way of formulating the measure
might be to make the power thresholds dependent on the noise level. This
would, however, restrict the comparability of the SNR improvement figures of
the different classes over experiments with different background noise
content.
3) The presented method of classifying the speech frames in the designated
classes and, hence, determining values for the SNR improvement measures, is
only applicable if all the used power level threshold values are higher than
the corresponding power threshold level derived in the speech level
measurement referred to above.
A preferable scaling for the clean speech material is a normalisation to the
active speech level of --26 dBov. In such a case, the following values should
be used for the power class thresholds:
th_h = ‑1 dB
th_m = ‑10 dB
th_l = ‑16 dB (10)
th_nh = ‑19 dB
th_nl = ‑34 dB
According to experimentation, the results of the analysis are not highly
sensitive to the selection of the threshold values. However, the determination
of the th_l and th_nh threshold values is somewhat critical to avoid confusion
between low power speech and a weak background noise typically present in the
clean speech samples.
**Assessment of noise power level reduction.** The noise power level reduction
**_NPLR_** measure relates to the capability of the NS method to attenuate the
background noise level.
The **_NPLR_** measure is calculated as follows:
For each background noise condition j
For each speaker i
Construct a noisy input signal d~ij~ as follows:
d~ij~(n) = β~ij ~ n~j~(n) + s~i~(n)
where β~ij~ depends on the SNR condition according to the procedure described
above
c~ij~ = AMR (d~ij~)
y~ij~ = NR (d~ij~)
{width="3.0416666666666665in" height="0.5965277777777778in"}
{width="2.2916666666666665in" height="0.5965277777777778in"}, (11)
where {width="0.375in" height="0.20833333333333334in"} is a constant, such as
10^-5^;
_k~nse~_ and _K~nse~_ are the corresponding index and total number of noise
only frames
{width="1.5138888888888888in" height="0.4722222222222222in"} (12)
{width="1.4583333333333333in" height="0.4861111111111111in"} (13)
**Comparison of _SNRI _and_ NPLR _._ * A comparison of the _**SNRI** _and_**
NPLR** _measures can be used to acquire an indication of possible speech
distortion produced by the tested NS method. If the_** NPLR** _parameter
assumes clearly higher values than_** SNRI***, it can be expected that the NS
candidate causes distortion to speech. This relation, however, always needs to
be verified through a comparison between the objective measures and
corresponding subjective test results.
**Comments on the AMR/NS selection test material**
We have expressed above the premise that the street noise test material used
in conjunction with the presented objective quality measures should be of a
slowly varying power level. As a candidate proponent having gone through the
processing of the source speech material with our AMR/NS candidate solution,
we now have some experience on the noise material used for the AMR/NS
selection tests. Our impression of the street noise material is not quite
consistent with the requirement stated above. Namely, the street noise samples
appear to contain, to some extent, background speech, horns and similar
components whose frame power varies in a rate whose range coincides that of
speech. Hence, the results to be obtained for the street noise conditions have
to be interpreted with special care.
**On the scope of usage of objective measures for NS evaluation**
The objective measures presented in the present document are intended for
characterising some relevant aspects of the performance of NS algorithms.
Prior to the selection phase testing, it was noted that they might help in the
comparison of AMR/NS candidates that are found equal by other means. However,
we want to emphasise that the figures obtained with the proposed measures were
decided to be used as auxiliary information only. The subjective test results
were acknowledged as the principal data for ranking the AMR/NS candidates in
the selection process.
###### ### Annex F: Methodology for Measuring Impact on Voice Activity Factor
(VAF)
This contribution presents a proposal for the measurement of the VAF (Voice
Activity Factor) references. This method is also suggested for the
measurements of the candidate\'s VAF. Nortel Networks will conduct them and
provide a report for the Noise Suppresser Selection Phase (i.e. 15^th^ Nov.
1999). Nortel Networks will also provide the means to conduct the same
measurements for a cross checking.
References:
[1] Noise Suppression for the AMR codec, Service Description, Stage 1.
[2] Tdoc SMG11 288/99, Test Plan Specification for the AMR NS Selection Phase
v1.7.
**2.0 Voice activity Factor Measurement**
**2.1 General**
The Voice Activity Factor is defined as the ratio of the number of frames
declared as speech (SPEECH) by the AMR Voice Activity Detector (VAD) over the
total number of frames during a given time.
The parameter of interest for an operator regarding the radio usage efficiency
is the mean Radio Channel Activity Factor (RAF) in a cell. This RAF
corresponds to the ratio of the number of transmitted bursts to the number of
timeslots available during a given time. The RAF is somehow linked to the VAF
(depending on the Traffic channel FR or HR, the number of SID_FIRST frames and
the number of SID_UPDATE frames). For the sake of simplicity, we limit the
measurement to the VAF. But, the method described and the C code also enable
the computation of the RAF if needed.
**2.2 VAF requirements**
The requirements for the NS candidate regarding the VAF are the following [1]:
\"The AMR speech codec with noise suppression activated should not
significantly increase channel activity when used in conjunction with DTX.
Channel activity increase will be measured thanks to the Voice Activity factor
(VAF), defined as follows.
Let x be the VAF measured by the AMR VAD as an averaged value on all clean
speech signals
Let y be the VAF measured by the AMR VAD without AMR NS active as an averaged
value on all clean speech + noise signals (where the applicable clean speech
signal is the speech signal used in the measure of x).
Let w be the VAF measured by the AMR VAD with AMR NS active as an averaged
value on all clean speech +noise signals (where the applicable clean speech
signal is the speech signal used in the measure of x). w is required to be
less than the maximum of y and x. Any case where w is greater than y should be
further investigated.
For real world signals, w is required not to be significantly greater than y.
Any case where w is greater than y should be further investigated.
These requirements shall apply to all standardised AMR VADs. (w,x,y) are
determined using all VADs, and the requirements are checked relatively to each
AMR VAD independently.\"
As a consequence, values X and Y are independent of the NS candidate. They are
considered as reference values. W can be computed by the candidate using the
same procedure and compared to X and Y. The calculation of Y (resp. X) is
described in clause 2.3 (resp. 2.4).
X, Y and W values should be compatible in the sense that the original speech
material shall be the same for all of them. There should also be no speech
material used twice.
We propose to measure the VAF by counting SPEECH frames in the output file of
the AMR encoder. Therefore the preprocessed noisy speech material provided by
ARCON and COMSAT will be used for Y value. The corresponding preprocessed
files without added noise will be used for X. The process will exclude
propagation error conditions, synthesis and tandeming ( i.e. the only process
will be the AMR encoding stage with or without the NS activated). All downlink
conditions are excluded from the process since the VAF requirements are only
applicable to uplink. Therefore, when the original processing in the test plan
includes both up and downlink, only the uplink processing is done for the VAF.
The first two seconds used for convergence are included for the processing but
the computation of the VAF should ignore those two seconds.
It has to be noted that no real worlds signals were included in the test plan.
Based on this we can make the following remarks :
\- No speech files will be concatenated.
\- No specific weighting will be applied to files with respect to experiment
since the requirement doesn\'t separate noise types. Anyhow, the program
outputs the VAF for each type of noise and this might be subject to analysis
if needed.
\- No specific weighting will be applied to files with respect to the AMR
Mode. The mode used for the processing before the VAF measurement is the same
as the one used in the processing test plan.
\- The same speech files may be used twice in two different conditions if the
encoding mode is different for each condition.
**2.3 Measurement for Noisy speech (Y)**
It has been agreed that the VAF measurement will be done using all the speech
material used for the selection testing. Since X and Y are measured using the
same material for comparison reasons, only noisy speech are retained. The
following table lists the experiments potentially used for the computation.
* * *
Exp. No. Title No. of\ Sub-Exp.
3 Artefacts, Clipping & Distortion Effects in Background Noise Conditions 3
4 & 5 Performances in Background Noise Conditions 4
6 & 7 Influence of Propagation Error Conditions 2
8 & 9 Influence of Voice Activity Detection and Discontinuous Transmission 2
10 Influence of the Input Signal +Noise Level and Performances with Special
Noise Types 1
* * *
After having excluded double usage of speech material with the same encoding
mode, we end up with the following list for the preprocessed files provided by
ARCON:
* * *
Exp. No. Conditions retained Excluded conditions 3a 19, 25 31 3b 19, 25 31 3c
19, 25 31 4a 15, 21, 27  
4b 15, 21, 27  
5a 15, 21, 27  
5b 15, 21, 27  
6a 7, 13(uplink only) 19 7a 7, 13(uplink only) 19 8a 7, 13(uplink only) 19 9a
7, 13(uplink only) 19 10a 13, 19, 25, 31, 37, 43
* * *
**2.4 Measurement for Clean speech (x)**
For clean speech signals, the same procedure will be used. Therefore the
corresponding material should be preprocessed without adding noise samples
**2.5 Measurement for Noisy speech with the candidate NS algorithm activated
(w)**
As for the previous case, the same procedure will be used. The C code given as
an attached file can be used by candidates to perform their own measurements
using their NS candidate. The advantage would be that the output values will
correspond to the reference values and that we will be able to do an \"apple
to apple\" comparison during the selection.
**3.0 Summary of the C code for VAF measurements**
The attached Zip file contains the following source files :
**\- Main.c:** loops on speech files to do the process and the VAF
measurements.
> Writes the report file.
**\- Process.c: p** rocess the speech file (AMR encoder with DTX on and NS
optionally) and measures the number of SPEECH frames and the number of total
frames in the output bitstream.
**\- Desc.c: c** ontains the preprocessed file description to enable simple
looping on speech files.
**\- Main.h: c** ontains function prototypes and user-defined values.
The make file is not provided. The code was successfully tested using a
PC/Windows 95 environment with Visual C++.
The user must change the following values according to its needs :
in file main.h:
initial dir of ARCON Files
ARCON_BASE \"d:/hlaba\"
initial dir of COMSAT Files
COMSAT_BASE \"e:/hlabc\"
Command line specific to the candidate
for VAD option 1
COMMAND_LINE_VAD1 \"encoder [-ns_on] -dtx\"
for VAD option 2
COMMAND_LINE_VAD2 \"encoder2 [-ns_on] -dtx\"
Report filename
REPORT_FILENAME \"VAF_Report.txt\"
Candidate Acronym
ARCON_CANDIDATE_ACRONYM \"xx\"
COMSAT_CANDIDATE_ACRONYM \"xx\"
in file desc.c
Group of files descriptions can be changed to match the file structure
The program processes each file according to the descriptor array file. The
processing follows the provided command line. The resulting file of the
process is analyzed in order to count various frame types in the bit-stream
ignoring the first 100 frames (2 seconds). The values of interest are returned
to the main function that performs total and means calculation and writes the
report. An example of report (with dummy data) is also attached to this
proposal.
#