# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
_The present document identifies the 3GPP system specifications for Release
15. The specifications and reports of this Release have a major version number
15 (i.e. 15.x.y). The listed Specifications are required to build a system
based on the Evolved Packet System._
_The high-level architecture of such a system is defined in 3GPP TS 23.002 [2]
(figure 1b)._
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 21.900: \"Technical Specification Group working methods\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Symbols
(Void)
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] apply.
# 4 General
The numbering scheme for specifications is described in 3GPP TR 21.900 [3].
# 5 Specifications and Reports
The list of Technical Specifications and Technical Reports can be found at
https://portal.3gpp.org/Specifications.aspx?q=1&tbid=All&releases=190&draft=False&underCC=True&withACC=False&withBCC=False&tech=3&numberNYA=False
NOTE 1: The padlock icon on the right of each row indicates whether or not the
documents are intended for adoption by the partner Standards Development
Organizations as their own publications. Those with a padlock icon are
internal working documents of the 3GPP TSGs.
NOTE 2: Some of the algorithm specifications in the 35.‑series are available
only under licence.
NOTE 3: \"Type\" indicates Technical Specification (TS) or Technical Report
(TR).
#