# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Radio Frequency (RF) test methods and
conformance requirements for NR repeater _type 1-C_. These have been derived
from, and are consistent with the conducted requirements for _repeater type
1-C_ in NR repeater specification defined in TS 38.106 [2].
A _repeater type 1-C_ only has conducted requirements so it requires
compliance to this specification only.
_Arepeater type 2-O_ has only radiated requirements so it requires compliance
to TS 38.115-2 [3] only.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.106: \"NR; Repeater Radio Transmission and Reception\"
[3] 3GPP TS 38.115-2: \"NR; Repeater conformance testing, Part 2: Radiated
conformance testing\"
[4] ITU-R Recommendation SM.329: \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious domain\"
[5] 3GPP TS 38.104: \"NR; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\"
[6] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\"
[7] 3GPP TS 38.141-1: \"NR; Base Station (BS) conformance testing, Part 1:
Conducted conformance testing\"
[8] 3GPP TS 38.211: \"NR; Physical channels and modulation\"
[9] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\"
[10] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol
specification\"
[11] ITU-R Recommendation M.1545: "Measurement uncertainty as it applies to
test limits for the terrestrial component of International Mobile
Telecommunications -- 2000"
[12] ITU-T Recommendation O.150, \"Equipment for the measurement of digital
and analogue/digital parameters\"
[13] Federal Communications Commission: \"Title 47 of the Code of Federal
Regulations (CFR) \"
[14] ECC/DEC/(17)06: \"The harmonised use of the frequency bands 1427-1452 MHz
and 1492-1518 MHz for Mobile/Fixed Communications Networks Supplemental
Downlink (MFCN SDL)\"
[15] 3GPP TR 25.942: \"RF system scenarios\"
[16] IEC 60 721-3-3: \"Classification of environmental conditions - Part 3-3:
Classification of groups of environmental parameters and their severities -
Stationary use at weather protected locations\"
[17] IEC 60 721-3-4: \"Classification of environmental conditions - Part 3:
Classification of groups of environmental parameters and their severities -
Clause 4: Stationary use at non-weather protected locations\"
[18] IEC 60 721: \"Classification of environmental conditions\"
[19] IEC 60 068-2-1 (2007): \"Environmental testing - Part 2: Tests. Tests A:
Cold\"
[20] IEC 60 068-2-2: (2007): \"Environmental testing - Part 2: Tests. Tests B:
Dry heat\"
[21] IEC 60 068-2-6: (2007): \"Environmental testing - Part 2: Tests - Test
Fc: Vibration (sinusoidal)\"
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**Antenna connector:** connector at the conducted interface of the _repeater
type 1-C_
**Fractional bandwidth:_fractional bandwidth_ FBW is defined as**
**gap between passbands:** frequency gap between two consecutive passbands
that belong to the same _operating band_ , where the RF requirements in the
gap are based on co-existence for un-coordinated operation
**Inter-passband gap** : The frequency gap between two supported consecutive
_passbands_ that belong to different operating bands.
**Maximum passband output power:** mean power level measured per _passband_ at
the _antenna connector_ , during the _transmitter ON state_ in a specified
reference condition.
**multi-band connector** : _Antenna Connector_ for a _Multi-band repeater_.
**Multi-band repeater:** _Repeater Type 1-C_ whose _antenna connector_ is
associated with a transmitter and/or receiver that is characterized by the
ability to process two or more _passband(s)_ in common active RF components
simultaneously, where at least one _passband_ is configured at a different
operating band than the other _passband(s)_ and where this different operating
band is not a sub-band or superseding-band of another supported operating band
**Nominal channel bandwidth: Bandwidth calculated as** min(100MHz,
BW~passband~) in FR1 or min(400MHz, BW~passband~) in FR2. If this bandwidth is
not defined for BS channel bandwidth for the operating band, _nominal channel
bandwidth_ shall be defined as the widest BS channel bandwidth for the
operating band which is narrower than BW~passband~.
**Non-contiguous spectrum** : spectrum consisting of two or more _passbands_
separated by _inter-passband gap_(s).
**Operating band:** frequency range in which NR operates (paired or unpaired),
that is defined with a specific set of technical requirements
**passband edge** _:_ Frequency at the edge of the passband
**Repeater RF Bandwidth** : RF bandwidth in which a repeater transmits and/or
receives single or multiple passband(s) within a supported operating band
> NOTE: In single passband operation, the Repeater RF Bandwidth is equal to
> the passband bandwidth.
**Repeater type 1-C** : Repeater operating at FR1 with a requirement set
consisting only of conducted requirements defined at individual _antenna
connectors_.
**_Requirement set:_** one of the NR requirements set as defined for _NR
repeater_
**single-band connector:** _Repeater type 1-C_ _antenna connector_ supporting
operation either in a single _operating band_ only, or in multiple _operating
bands_ but does not meet the conditions for a _multi-band connector_.
**Sub-band** : A _sub-band_ of an operating band contains a part of the uplink
and downlink frequency range of the operating band.
**sub-block:** one contiguous allocated block of spectrum for transmission and
reception by the repeater.
**Superseding-band** : A _superseding-band_ of an operating band includes the
whole of the uplink and downlink frequency range of the operating band.
**Transmitter OFF state:** Time period during which the repeater downlink or
uplink is not allowed to transmit in the corresponding direction.
**Transmitter ON state:** Time period during which the repeater **is
transmitting** downlink or uplink signals in the corresponding direction.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
BW~Config~ Transmission bandwidth configuration, where BW~Config~ = _N_ ~RB~ x
SCS x 12
BW~Nominal~ Nominal channel _bandwidth_
BW~Passband~ _Passband bandwidth_
∆f Separation between the _passband edge_ frequency and the nominal -3 dB
point of the measuring filter closest to the carrier frequency
∆f~max~ f_offset~max~ minus half of the bandwidth of the measuring filter
Δf~OBUE~ Maximum offset of the _operating band_ unwanted emissions mask from
the _operating band_ edge
F~DL,low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink _operating band_
F~DL,high~ The highest frequency of the downlink _operating band_
F~FBWhigh~ Highest supported frequency within supported operating band, for
which _fractional bandwidth_ support was declared
F~FBWlow~ Lowest supported frequency within supported operating band, for
which _fractional bandwidth_ support was declared
F~filter~ Filter centre frequency
F~offset,high~ Frequency offset from F~C,high~ to the upper _passband edge_
F~offset,low~ Frequency offset from F~C,low~ to the lower _passband edge_
f_offset Separation between the _passband edge_ frequency and the centre of
the measuring
f_offset~max~ The offset to the frequency Δf~OBUE~ outside the _operating
band_
F~UL,low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink _operating band_
F~UL,high~ The highest frequency of the uplink _operating band_
P~EM,n50/n75,ind~ Declared emission level for Band n50/n75; ind = a,
bP~max,p,AC~ _Maximum passband output power_ measured per _antenna connector_
P~rated,in~ Rated pass band input power to the repeater for the test per
antenna connector
P~rated,p,AC~ Rated passband output power per antenna connector
P~rated,t,AC~ Rated total output power declared per antenna connectorW~gap~
_Inter passband Bandwidth gap_ size
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
BW Bandwidth
CACLR Cumulative ACLR
CP-OFDM Cyclic Prefix-OFDM
DFT-s-OFDM Discrete Fourier Transform-spread-OFDM
DL Downlink
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
FBW Fractional Bandwidth
FR Frequency Range
ITU‑R Radiocommunication Sector of the International Telecommunication Union
LA Local Area
MR Medium Range
NR New Radio
OBUE Operating Band Unwanted Emissions
OOB Out-of-band
QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
RF Radio Frequency
RX Receiver
SCS Sub-Carrier Spacing
TX Transmitter
UL Uplink
WA Wide Area
# 4 General conducted test conditions and declarations
## 4.1 Measurement uncertainties and test requirements
### 4.1.1 General
The requirements of this clause apply to all applicable tests in part 1 of
this specification, i.e. to all conducted tests defined for FR1. The frequency
ranges FR1 and FR2 are defined in clause 5.1 of TS 38.106 [2].
The minimum requirements are given in TS 38.106 [2]. Test Tolerances for the
conducted test requirements explicitly stated in the present document are
given in annex C of the present document.
Test Tolerances are individually calculated for each test. The Test Tolerances
are used to relax the minimum requirements to create test requirements.
When a test requirement differs from the corresponding minimum requirement,
then the Test Tolerance applied for the test is non-zero. The Test Tolerance
for the test and the explanation of how the minimum requirement has been
relaxed by the Test Tolerance are given in annex C.
### 4.1.2 Acceptable uncertainty of Test System
#### 4.1.2.1 General
The maximum acceptable uncertainty of the Test System is specified below for
each test defined explicitly in the present specification, where appropriate.
The maximum acceptable uncertainty of the Test System for test requirements
included by reference is defined in the respective referred test
specification.
The Test System shall enable the stimulus signals in the test case to be
adjusted to within the specified tolerance and the equipment under test to be
measured with an uncertainty not exceeding the specified values. All
tolerances and uncertainties are absolute values, and are valid for a
confidence level of 95 %, unless otherwise stated.
A confidence level of 95 % is the measurement uncertainty tolerance interval
for a specific measurement that contains 95 % of the performance of a
population of test equipment.
For RF tests, it should be noted that the uncertainties in clause 4.1.2 apply
to the Test System operating into a nominal 50 ohm load and do not include
system effects due to mismatch between the DUT and the Test System.
#### 4.1.2.2 Conducted characteristics measurements
Table 4.1.2.2-1: Maximum Test System uncertainty for conducted characteristics
tests
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Clause | Maximum Test System | Derivation of Test | | | Uncertainty | System Uncertainty | +======================+======================+======================+ | 6.2 Repeater output | ±0.7 dB, f ≤ 3 GHz | | | power | | | | | ±1.0 dB, 3 GHz \ 20MHz: ±1.2 dB | | | | | | | | Absolute power ±2.0 | | | | dB, f ≤ 3 GHz | | | | | | | | Absolute power ±2.5 | | | | dB, 3 GHz \ -60 | | | | dBm ±2,0 dB\ | | | | for results \ -60 | | | | dBm ±2,0 dB\ | | | | for results \ \- Declared maximum repeater RF Bandwidth supported shall be used (D.18);
\- Select the carrier to be tested according to 4.7.2 and place it adjacent to
the lower _passband_ edge. If the width of the _passband_ is at least twice
the bandwidth of the signal to be tested then place a second signal adjacent
to the upper _passband_ edge. Otherwise reposition the carrier to be tested
according to the single carrier test frequencies described in section 4.9.1.
The test configuration should be constructed sequentially on a per band basis
using the same _antenna connector_. All configured component carriers are
transmitted simultaneously in the tests where the repeater should be ON.
#### 4.7.3.2 RTC1 power allocation
Set the power spectral density of each carrier to the same level so that the
sum of the carrier powers equals the expected input power to the repeater for
the test (i.e., either P~rated,in~ or P~rated,in~ + 10dB) according to the
manufacturer\'s declaration in clause 4.6.
### 4.7.5 RTC2: Non-contiguous spectrum operation
The purpose of RTC2 is to test all repeater requirements that need an input
signal in the _passband_ when there is more than one _passband_ per _operating
band_.
#### 4.7.5.1 RTC2 generation
RTC2 is constructed on a per band basis using the following method:
\- The repeater _passband_ bandwidths shall be the declared maximum repeater
RF Bandwidth supported for multiple passbands (D.18). The repeater RF
Bandwidth consists of one sub-block gap and the two highest and lowest
declared _passbands_ .
\- For each _passband_ , select the carrier to be tested according to 4.7.2.
If the the width of the _passband_ is at least twice that of the carrier to be
tested then place a carrier adjacent to the upper _passband_ edge and another
carrier (as described in 4.7.2) adjacent to the lower _passband_ edge.
Otherwise, tests shall be applied with one carrier adjacent to the lower sub-
block edge and one carrier adjacent to the upper sub-block edge for each sub-
block gap.
\- The sub-block edges adjacent to the sub-block gap shall be determined using
the specified F~offset_high~ and F~offset_low~ for the carriers adjacent to
the sub-block gap.
#### 4.7.5.2 RTC2 power allocation
Set the power of each carrier to the same level so that the sum of the carrier
powers equals the expected input power to the repeater for the test (i.e.,
either P~rated,in~ or P~rated,in~ + 10dB) according to the manufacturer\'s
declaration in clause 4.6.
### 4.7.6 RTC3: Multi-band test configuration for full carrier allocation
The purpose of RTC3 is to test multi-band operation aspects.
#### 4.7.6.1 RTC3 generation
RTC3 is based on re-using the previously specified test configurations
applicable per band involved in multi-band operation. It is constructed using
the following method:
\- The repeater RF Bandwidth of each supported operating band shall be the
declared maximum repeater RF Bandwidth in multi-band operation (D.19).
\- The number of carriers of each supported _operating band_ shall be
sufficient to fill all of the _passbands_ with one or two carriers (depending
on the passband bandwidth). Carriers shall be selected according to 4.7.2 and
shall first be placed at the outermost edges of the declared repeater Radio
Bandwidth. Additional carriers shall next be placed at the repeater RF
Bandwidths edges, if possible.
\- Each concerned band shall be considered as an independent band and the
carrier placement in each band shall be according to RTC1, where the declared
parameters for multi-band operation shall apply. The mirror image of the
single-band test configuration shall be used in each alternate band(s) and in
the highest band.
\- If the bandwidth of any _passband_ is insufficient to accommodate two
carriers then tests shall be repeated with the test carriers positioned such
that there is a carrier adjacent to the lower edge of a sub-block gap or
inter-band gap and a carrier adjacent to the upper edge of the sub-block gap
or inter-band gap, for each sub-block gap or inter-block gap.
#### 4.7.6.2 RTC3 power allocation
Unless otherwise stated, set the power of each carrier in all supported
_operating bands_ to the same level so that the sum of the carrier powers
equals the expected input power to the repeater for the test (i.e., either
P~rated,in~ or P~rated,in~ + 10dB) according to the manufacturer\'s
declaration in clause 4.6.
### 4.7.7 RTC4: Multi-band test configuration with high PSD per carrier
The purpose of RTC4 is to test multi-band operation aspects considering higher
PSD cases with reduced number of carriers and non-contiguous operation (if
supported) in multi-band mode.
#### 4.7.7.1 RTC4 generation
RTC4 is based on re-using the existing test configuration applicable per band
involved in multi-band operation. It is constructed using the following
method:
\- The repeater RF Bandwidth of each supported _operating band_ shall be the
declared maximum repeater RF Bandwidth in multi-band operation (D.19).
\- The allocated repeater RF Bandwidth of the outermost bands shall be located
at the outermost edges of the declared Maximum Radio Bandwidth.
\- The maximum number of carriers is limited to two per band. Carriers shall
be selected according to 4.7.2 and shall first be placed at the outermost
edges of the declared Maximum Radio Bandwidth for outermost bands and at the
Repeater RF Bandwidths edges for middle band(s) if any. Additional carriers
shall next be placed at the Repeater RF Bandwidths edges, if possible.
\- Each concerned band shall be considered as an independent band and the
carrier placement in each band shall be according to RTC3, where the declared
parameters for multi-band operation shall apply. Narrowest supported NR
channel bandwidth and smallest subcarrier spacing shall be used in the test
configuration.
\- If only one carrier can be placed for the concerned band(s), the carrier(s)
shall be placed at the outermost edges of the declared maximum radio bandwidth
for outermost band(s) and at one of the outermost edges of the supported
frequency range within the Base Station RF Bandwidths for middle band(s) if
any.
#### 4.7.7.2 RTC4 power allocation
Unless otherwise stated, set the power of each carrier in all supported
operating bands to the same level so that the sum of the carrier powers equals
the expected input power to the repeater for the test (i.e., either
P~rated,in~ or P~rated,in~ + 10dB) according to the manufacturer\'s
declaration in clause 4.6.
## 4.8 Applicability of requirements
### 4.8.1 General
### 4.8.2 Applicability of test configurations for single-band operation
The applicable test configurations are specified in the tables below for each
the supported RF configuration, which shall be declared according to clause
4.6. The generation and power allocation for each test configuration is
defined in clause 4.7. This clause contains the test configurations for a
repeater capable of single carrier, and/or multi-carrier operation in both
contiguous and non-contiguous spectrum in single band.
For a repeater declared to support a single _passband_ within a single band
(D.2), the test configurations in the second column of table 4.8.3-1 shall be
used for testing.
For a repeater declared to support more than one _passband_ within a single
band (D.2) and where the parameters in the manufacture\'s declaration
according to clause 4.6 are identical for all passbands, the test
configurations in the third column of table 4.8.3-1 shall be used for testing.
For a repeater declared to support more than one _passband_ within a single
band (D.2) and where the parameters in the manufacture\'s declaration
according to clause 4.6 are not identical for all passbands, the test
configurations in the fourth column of table 4.8.3-1 shall be used for
testing.
Table 4.8.3-1: Test configurations for a repeater capable of single or
multiple _passbands_ in a single band
Test case Single passband repeater Multiple passband capable repeater with
identical parameters per passband Multiple passband capable repeater with
different parameters per passband
* * *
Repeater output power RTC1 RTC1 RTC1, RTC2 Frequency stability Tested with
Error Vector Magnitude Tested with Error Vector Magnitude Tested with Error
Vector Magnitude Out of band gain N/A N/A N/A Transmit ON/OFF power (only
applied for NR TDD repeater) RTC1 RTC1 RTC1, RTC2 Error Vector Magnitude RTC1
RTC1 RTC1, RTC2 Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) RTC1 RTC1, RTC2
RTC1, RTC2 Cumulative ACLR requirement in non-contiguous spectrum - RTC2 RTC2
Operating band unwanted emissions RTC1 RTC1, RTC2 RTC1, RTC2 Transmitter
spurious emissions RTC1 RTC1, RTC2 RTC1, RTC2 Output intermodulation RTC1
RTC1, RTC2 RTC1, RTC2 Input intermodulation N/A N/A N/A Adjacent Channel
Rejection Ratio (ACRR) RTC1 RTC2 RTC1, RTC2 Receiver spurious emissions RTC1
RTC1, RTC2 RTC1, RTC2
### 4.8.4 Applicability of test configurations for _multi-band_ operation
For a repeater declared to be capable of multi-band operation, the test
configuration in table 4.8.4-1 and/or table 4.8.3-1 shall be used for testing.
In the case where multiple bands are mapped on common _multi-band connector_ ,
the test configuration in the second column of table 4.8.4-1 shall be used. In
the case where multiple bands are mapped on common _single-band connector_ ,
the test configuration in table 4.8.3-1 shall be used. In the case where
multiple bands are mapped on separate _single-band connector_ or _multi-band
connector_ , the test configuration in the third column of table 4.8.4-1 shall
be used.
Table 4.8.4-1: Test configuration for a Repeater capable of multi-band
operation
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Repeater test case | Test configuration | | +======================+======================+======================+ | | Common connector | Separate connectors | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Repeater output | RTC1/2 (Note 1), | RTC1/2 (Note 1), | | power | RTC3 | RTC3 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Frequency stability | Tested with Error | Tested with Error | | | Vector Magnitude | Vector Magnitude | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Out of band gain | N/A | N/A | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Transmit ON/OFF | RTC3 | RTC3 | | power (only applied | | | | for NR TDD Repeater) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Frequency error | Tested with Error | Tested with Error | | | Vector Magnitude | Vector Magnitude | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Error Vector | RTC1/2 (Note 1), | RTC1/2 (Note 1), | | Magnitude (Note 8) | RTC3 | RTC3 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Adjacent Channel | RTC1/2 (Note 1), | RTC1/2 (Note 1, 3), | | Leakage power Ratio | RTC4 (Note 2) | RTC4 (Note 2, 3) | | (ACLR) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cumulative ACLR | RTC2 (Note 1), RTC4 | RTC2 (Note 1, 3) | | requirement in | (Note 2) | | | non-contiguous | | | | spectrum | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Operating band | RTC1/2 (Note 1), | RTC1/2 (Note 1, 3), | | unwanted emissions | RTC4 | RTC4 (Note 3) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Transmitter spurious | RTC1/2 (Note 1), | RTC1/2 (Note 1, 3), | | emissions | RTC4 | RTC4 (Note 3) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Output | RTC1/2 (Note 1) | RTC1/2 (Note 1, 3) | | intermodulation | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Input | N/A | N/A | | Intermodulation | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Adjacent Channel | RTC1/2 (Note 1), | RTC1/2 (Note 1, 3), | | Rejection Ratio | RTC4 (Note 2) | RTC4 (Note 2, 3) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Receiver spurious | RTC1/2 (Note 1), | RTC1/2 (Note 1, 3), | | emissions | RTC4 | RTC4 (Note 3) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Note 1: RTC1 and/or | | | | RTC2 shall be | | | | applied in each | | | | supported operating | | | | band. | | | | | | | | Note 2: RTC4 may be | | | | applied for Inter RF | | | | Bandwidth gap only. | | | | | | | | Note 3: For | | | | single-band | | | | operation test, | | | | other antenna | | | | connector(s) is | | | | (are) terminated. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 4.9 RF channels and test models
### 4.9.1 RF channels
For the single passband testing many tests in this TS are performed with
appropriate frequencies in the bottom, middle and top channels of the
supported frequency range of the repeater. These are denoted as RF channels B
(bottom), M (middle) and T (top).
Unless otherwise stated, the test shall be performed with a single passband at
each of the RF channels B, M and T.
Many tests in this TS are performed with the maximum repeater RF Bandwidth
located at the bottom, middle and top of the supported frequency range in the
operating band. These are denoted as B~RFBW~ (bottom), M~RFBW~ (middle) and
T~RFBW~ (top).
Unless otherwise stated, the test shall be performed at B~RFBW~, M~RFBW~ and
T~RFBW~ defined as following:
\- B~RFBW~: maximum repeater RF Bandwidth located at the bottom of the
supported frequency range in the operating band.
\- M~RFBW~: maximum repeater RF Bandwidth located in the middle of the
supported frequency range in the operating band.
\- T~RFBW~: maximum repeater RF Bandwidth located at the top of the supported
frequency range in the operating band.
For repeater capable of multi-band operation, unless otherwise stated, the
test shall be performed at B~RFBW~_T\'~RFBW~ and B\'~RFBW~_T~RFBW~ defined as
following:
\- B~RFBW~_T\'~RFBW~: the _repeater RF Bandwidths_ located at the bottom of
the supported frequency range in the lowest operating band and at the highest
possible simultaneous frequency position, within the Maximum Radio Bandwidth,
in the highest operating band.
\- B\'~RFBW~_T~RFBW:~ the _repeater RF Bandwidths_ located at the top of the
supported frequency range in the highest operating band and at the lowest
possible simultaneous frequency position, within the Maximum Radio Bandwidth,
in the lowest operating band.
NOTE: B~RFBW~_T\'~RFBW~ = B\'~RFBW~_T~RFBW~ = B~RFBW~_T~RFBW~ when the
declared Maximum Radio Bandwidth spans all operating bands. B~RFBW~_T~RFBW~
means the _repeater RF Bandwidths_ are located at the bottom of the supported
frequency range in the lower operating band and at the top of the supported
frequency range in the upper operating band.
When a test is performed by a test laboratory, the position of B, M and T for
single passband, B~RFBW~, M~RFBW~ and T~RFBW~ for single band operation, the
position of B~RFBW~_T\'~RFBW~ and B\'~RFBW~_T~RFBW~ in the supported operating
band combinations shall be specified by the laboratory. The laboratory may
consult with operators, the manufacturer or other bodies.
### 4.9.2 Test models
#### 4.9.2.1 General
The following clauses will describe the FR1 test models needed for _repeater
type 1-C_.
#### 4.9.2.2 FR1 test models for repeater type 1-C for DL
FR1 test model in clause 4.9.2.2 in TS 38.141-1[7] applies to _repeater type
1-C_ as below:
\- NR-FR1-TM1.1 applies to RDL-FR1-TM1.1
\- NR-FR1-TM1.2 applies to RDL-FR1-TM1.2
\- NR-FR1-TM2 applies to RDL-FR1-TM2
\- NR-FR1-TM2a applies to RDL-FR1-TM2a
\- NR-FR1-TM3.1 applies to RDL-FR1-TM3.1
\- NR-FR1-TM3.1a applies to RDL-FR1-TM3.1a
\- NR-FR1-TM3.2 applies to RDL-FR1-TM3.2
\- NR-FR1-TM3.3 applies to RDL-FR1-TM3.3
Testing models applying to NB-IoT operation in clause 4.9.2.2 in TS
38.141-1[7] are not applicable to repeaters.
#### 4.9.2.3 FR1 test models for repeater type 1-C for UL
##### 4.9.2.3.1 General
The set-up of physical channels for transmitter tests shall be according to
one of the FR1 test models (R‑TMs) below. A reference to the applicable test
model is made within each test.
The following general parameters are used by all repeater test models:
\- Duration is 2 radio frames for TDD (20 ms)
\- The slots are numbered 0 to 10×2^µ^ -- 1 where µ is the numerology
corresponding to the subcarrier spacing
\- N~RB~ is the maximum transmission bandwidth configuration seen in clause
5.3.2 in TS 38.106 [2].
\- Normal CP
\- Virtual resource blocks of localized type
Repeater test models are derived based on the uplink/downlink configuration as
shown in the table 4.9.2.2.1-1 using information element _TDD-UL-DL-
ConfigCommon_ as defined in TS 38.331 [10].
Table 4.9.2.3.1-1: Configurations of TDD for _repeater type 1-C_ test models
* * *
Field name Value  
referenceSubcarrierSpacing (kHz) 15 30 60 Periodicity (ms) for dl-UL-
TransmissionPeriodicity 5 5 5 nrofDownlinkSlots 3 7 14 nrofDownlinkSymbols 10
6 12 nrofUplinkSlots 1 2 4 nrofUplinkSymbols 2 4 8
* * *
Common physical channel parameters for all repeater FR1 test models are
specified in table 4.9.2.3.1-2 and table 4.9.2.3.1-3 for PUSCH. Specific
physical channel parameters for repeater FR1 test models are described in
clauses 4.9.2.3.2 to 4.9.2.3.5.
Table 4.9.2.3.1-2: Common physical channel parameters for PUSCH for _repeater
type 1-C_ test models
Parameter Value
* * *
Mapping type PUSCH mapping type A _dmrs-TypeA-Position_ for the first DM-RS
symbol pos2 _dmrs-AdditionalPosition_ for additional DM-RS symbol(s) Pos1
_dmrs-Type_ for comb pattern Configuration type 1 _maxLength_ 1 Ratio of PUSCH
EPRE to DM-RS EPRE 0 dB
Table 4.9.2.3.1-3: Common physical channel parameters for PUSCH by RNTI for
_repeater type 1-C_ test models
Parameter Value
* * *
PUSCH
##### 4.9.2.3.2 FR1 test model 1.1 (RUL-FR1-TM1.1)
This model shall be used for tests on:
\- Repeater output power
\- Out of band gain
\- Unwanted emissions
\- ACLR
\- Operating band unwanted emissions
\- Transmitter spurious emissions
\- Receiver spurious emissions
\- Transmitter intermodulation
-
\- Input intermodulation
\- Output intermodulation
\- ACRR
\- Transmitter ON/OFF power
Common physical channel parameters are defined in clause 4.9.2.3.1. Specific
physical channel parameters for RUL-FR1-TM1.1 are defined in table
4.9.2.3.2-1.
Table 4.9.2.2.2-1: Specific physical channel parameters of RUL-FR1-TM1.1
Parameter Value
* * *
# of PRBs PUSCH N~RB~ Modulation PUSCH QPSK
##### 4.9.2.3.3 FR1 test model 2 (RUL-FR1-TM2)
This model shall be used for tests on:
\- Transmitted signal quality
\- Uplink repeater EVM of single 64QAM PRB allocation (at lower PSD TX power
limit at min power)- Frequency stability (at min power)
Common physical channel parameters are defined in clause 4.9.2.3.1. Specific
physical channel parameters for RUL-FR1-TM2 are defined in table 4.9.2.3.3-1.
Table 4.9.2.3.3-1: Specific physical channel parameters of RUL-FR1-TM2
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +==================================+==================================+ | # of 64QAM PUSCH PRBs | 1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Level of boosting (dB) | 0 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Location of 64QAM PRB | Slo | | | t RB n | | | -------- ----------------- | | | ------- ------------------------ | | | 3 _n_ 0 | | | | | | 3 _n_ +1 | | | 3 _n_ +2 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | # of PUSCH PRBs which are not | | | allocated | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
##### 4.9.2.3.3a FR1 test model 2a (RUL-FR1-TM2a)
This model shall be used for tests on:
\- Uplink repeater EVM of single 256QAM PRB allocation (at min power)
\- Frequency stability (at min power)
Common physical channel parameters are defined in clause 4.9.2.3.3. Physical
channel parameters and numbers of the allocated PRB are defined in table
4.9.2.3.3-1 with all 64QAM PUSCH PRBs replaced by 256QAM PUSCH PRBs.
##### 4.9.2.3.4 FR1 test model 3.1 (RUL-FR1-TM3.1)
This model shall be used for tests on:
\- Transmitted signal quality
\- Frequency stability (at max power)
\- Uplink repeater EVM for modulation (at max power)
Common physical channel parameters are defined in clause 4.9.2.3.1. Physical
channel parameters are defined in table 4.9.2.3.2-1 with all QPSK PUSCH PRBs
replaced with selected modulation order PUSCH PRBs according to the
corresponding test procedure.
##### 4.9.2.3.5 FR1 test model 3.1a (RUL-FR1-TM3.1a)
This model shall be used for tests on:
\- Transmitted signal quality
\- Frequency stability (at max power)
\- Uplink repeater EVM for 256QAM modulation (at max power)
Common physical channel parameters are defined in clause 4.9.2.3.1. Physical
channel parameters are defined in table 4.9.2.3.2-1 with all QPSK PUSCH PRBs
replaced by 256QAM PUSCH PRBs.
#### 4.9.2.4 Data content of Physical channels and Signals for RUL-FR1-TM
##### 4.9.2.4.1 General
Randomisation of the data content is obtained by utilizing a PN sequence
generator and the length-31 Gold sequence scrambling of TS 38.211 [8], clause
5.2.1 which is invoked by all physical channels prior to modulation and
mapping to the RE grid.
Initialization of the scrambler and RE-mappers as defined in TS 38.211 [8] use
the following additional parameters:
\- , Physical layer cell identity = 1 is used as the default physical layer
cell identity
\- _q_ = 0 (single code word)
\- Rank 1, single layer
##### 4.9.2.4.2 PUSCH
\- Generate the required amount of bits from the output of the PN23 sequence
generator [12]. The PN sequence generator is initialized with a starting seed
of \"all ones\" in the first allocated slot of each frame. The PN sequence is
continuous over the slot boundaries.
\- Perform user specific scrambling according to TS 38.211 [8], clause
6.3.1.1.
\- Perform modulation of the scrambled bits with the modulation scheme defined
for each user according to TS 38.211 [8], clause 6.3.1.2
\-
\- Perform mapping of the complex-valued symbols to layer according to TS
38.211 [8], clause 6.3.1.3.
\- Perform PUSCH mapping according to TS 38.211 [8] using parameters listed in
table 4.9.2.3-2.
\- DM-RS sequence generation according to TS 38.211 [8], clause 6.4.1.1.1
where _l_ is the OFDM symbol number within the slot with the symbols indicated
by table 4.9.2.2-3.
\-
\-
\- DM-RS mapping according to TS 38.211 [8], clause 6.4.1.1.3 using parameters
listed in table 4.9.2.2-3.
## 4.10 Requirements for contiguous and non-contiguous spectrum
A spectrum allocation where a repeater operates can either be contiguous or
non-contiguous. Unless otherwise stated, the requirements in the present
specification apply for repeater configured for both contiguous spectrum
operation and non-contiguous spectrum operation.
For repeater operation in non-contiguous spectrum, some requirements apply
both at the repeater _passband_ edges and inside the sub-block gaps. For each
such requirement, it is stated how the limits apply relative to the repeater
_passband_ edges and the sub-block edges respectively.
## 4.11 Requirements for repeater capable of multi-band operation
For _multi-band connector_ the conducted test requirements in clause 6 and 7
apply separately to each supported _operating band_ unless otherwise stated.
For some conducted test requirements, it is explicitly stated that specific
additions or exclusions to the requirement apply at _multi-band connector(s)_
as detailed in the requirement clause. For repeater capable of multi-band
operation, various structures in terms of combinations of different
transceivers in downlink and transceivers in uplink implementations (multi-
band or single band) with mapping of transceivers to one or more _antenna_
_connectors_ for _repeater type 1-C_ in different ways are possible. For
_multi-band connector(s)_ the exclusions or provisions for multi-band apply.
For _single-band connector(s)_ , the following applies:
\- Single-band transmitter spurious emissions, _operating band_ unwanted
emissions, ACLR, output intermodulation, ACRR and receiver spurious emissions
requirements apply to this _connector_ that is mapped to single-band.
\- If the repeater is configured for single-band operation, _single-band
requirements_ shall apply to this connector configured for single-band
operation and no exclusions or provisions for multi-band capable repeater are
applicable. _Single-band requirements_ are tested separately at the connector
configured for single-band operation, with all other connectors terminated.
For _multi-band connectors_ supporting the bands for TDD, the RF requirements
in the present specification assume no simultaneous uplink and downlink occur
between the bands.
NOTE 1: The conducted test requirements for multi-band connectors supporting
bands for both FDD and TDD are not covered by the present release of this
specification.
## 4.12 Format and interpretation of tests
Each test has a standard format:
**X Title**
All tests are applicable to all equipment within the scope of the present
document, unless otherwise stated.
**X.1 Definition and applicability**
This clause gives the general definition of the parameter under consideration
and specifies whether the test is applicable to all equipment or only to a
certain subset. Required manufacturer declarations may be included here.
**X.2 Minimum requirement**
This clause contains the reference to the clause to the 3GPP reference (or
core) specification which defines the minimum requirement.
**X.3 Test purpose**
This clause defines the purpose of the test.
**X.4 Method of test**
**X.4.1 General**
In some cases there are alternative test procedures or initial conditions. In
such cases, guidance for which initial conditions and test procedures can be
applied are stated here. In the case only one test procedure is applicable,
that is stated here.
**X.4.2y First test method**
**X.4.2y.1 Initial conditions**
This clause defines the initial conditions for each test, including the test
environment, the RF channels to be tested and the basic measurement set-up.
**X.4.2y.2 Procedure**
This clause describes the steps necessary to perform the test and provides
further details of the test definition like domain (e.g. frequency-span),
range, weighting (e.g. bandwidth), and algorithms (e.g. averaging). The
procedure may comprise data processing of the measurement result before
comparison with the test requirement (e.g. average result from several
measurement positions).
**X.4.3y Alternative test method (if any)**
If there are alternative test methods, each is described with its initial
conditions and procedures.
**X.5 Test requirement**
This clause defines the pass/fail criteria for the equipment under test, see
clause 4.1.3 (Interpretation of measurement results). Test requirements for
every minimum requirement referred in clause X.2 are listed here. Cases where
minimum requirements do not apply need not be mentioned.
# 5 Operating bands and channel arrangement
For the NR operation in NR operating bands specification, their channel
bandwidth configurations, channel spacing and raster, as well as
synchronization raster specification, refer to TS 38.106 [2], clause 5 and its
relevant clauses.
For the conducted testing purposes in this specification, only FR1 operating
bands are considered.
# 6 Conducted characteristics
## 6.1 General
Unless otherwise stated, the conducted transmitter characteristics are
specified at the _antenna connector_ for _repeater type 1-C_ configuration in
normal operating conditions.
Requirements apply in both DL and UL.
For the DL the _antenna connector_ on the BS side is the input and the
_antenna connector_ on the UE side is the output.
For the UL the _antenna connector_ on the UE side is the input and the
_antenna connector_ on the BS side is the output.
General test conditions for conducted tests of the _repeater type 1-C_ are
given in clause 4, including interpretation of measurement results and
configurations for testing. Repeater configurations for the tests are defined
in clause 4.5.
If a number of _single-band connectors, or multi-band connectors_ have been
declared equivalent (D.13), only a representative one is necessary to be
tested to demonstrate conformance.
## 6.2 Repeater output power
### 6.2.1 Definition and applicability
The repeater conducted output power requirements are specified at _single-band
connector_ , or at _multi-band connector_.
The _rated passband output power_ P~rated,p,AC~ of the _repeater type 1-C_
shall be as specified in table 6.2.1-1 and table 6.2.1-2.
Table 6.2.1-1: _Repeater type 1-C_ DL transmission classes rated output power
limits for repeater classes
+----------------------------------------------+----------------------+ | Repeater class | P~rated,p,AC~ | +----------------------------------------------+----------------------+ | Wide Area repeater | Note 1 | +----------------------------------------------+----------------------+ | Medium Range repeater | ≤ 38 dBm + X, Note 2 | +----------------------------------------------+----------------------+ | Local Area repeater | ≤ 24 dBm + X, Note 2 | +----------------------------------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: There is no upper limit for the | | | P~rated,p,AC~ _rated passband output power_ | | | of the Wide Area repeater. | | | | | | NOTE 2: X = 10*log (ceil (_passband_ | | | bandwidth/20MHz)) | | +----------------------------------------------+----------------------+
Table 6.2.1-2: _Repeater type 1-C_ UL transmission classes rated output power
limits for repeater classes
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------+ | Repeater class | P~rated,p,AC~ | +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------+ | Wide Area repeater | Note 1 | +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------+ | Local Area repeater | ≤ 24 dBm+ X, Note 2 | +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------+ | NOTE 1: There is no upper limit for the | | | P~rated,p,AC~ _rated passband output power_ | | | of the Wide Area repeater. | | | | | | NOTE 2: X = 10*log (ceil (_passband_ | | | bandwidth/20MHz)) | | +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------+
The output power limit for the respective repeater classes in tables 6.2.1-1
and 6.2.1-2 shall be compared to the rated output power and the declared
repeater class. It is not subject to testing.
### 6.2.2 Minimum requirement
The minimum requirement applies per _single-band connector_ , or per _multi-
band connector_ supporting transmission in the _passband_.
The minimum requirement for _repeater type 1-C_ is defined for normal and
extreme conditions in TS 38.106 [2], clause 6.2.2.
### 6.2.3 Test purpose
The test purpose is to verify that the repeater output power accuracy of the
_rated passband output power_ across the frequency range and under normal and
extreme conditions is within the limit specified by the minimum requirement in
6.2.2.
### 6.2.4 Method of test
#### _6.2.4.1 Initial conditions_
Test environment:
\- Normal, see annex B.2,
\- Extreme, see annexes B.3 and B.5.
A measurement system set-up is shown in annex x.
RF channels to be tested for single carrier: B, M and T; see clause 4.9.1.
RF channels positions to be tested for multi-carrier and/or CA:
\- B~RFBW~, M~RFBW~ and T~RFBW~ for _single-band connector(s)_ , see clause
4.9.1.
\- B~RFBW~_T\'~RFBW~ and B\'~RFBW~_T~RFBW~ for _multi-band connector(s)_ , see
clause 4.9.1.
Under extreme test environment, it is sufficient to test on one NR-ARFCN or
one RF bandwidth position, and with one applicable test configuration defined
in clauses 4.7 and 4.8. Testing shall be performed under extreme power supply
conditions, as defined in annex B.5.
NOTE: Tests under extreme power supply conditions also test extreme
temperatures.
Power levels to be tested:
\- The lowest input power (P~in,p,AC~) that produces the _rated passband
output power_ (P~rated,p,AC~).
\- The lowest input power (P~in,p,AC~) that produces the _rated passband
output power_ (P~rated,p,AC~), plus 10 dB.
#### _6.2.4.2 Procedure_
1) Connect the power measuring equipment to the output _single-band
connector(s)_ or to _multi-band connector(s)_ and the signal generator
equipment to the input _single-band connector(s)_ or to _multi-band
connector(s)_ under test as shown in annex D.1.1. All connectors not under
test shall be terminated.
2) For single carrier set the signal generator to transmit according to the
applicable test configuration in clause 4.8 using the corresponding test
models or set of physical channels in clause 4.9.2 at power levels to be
tested, as in clause 6.2.4.1.
For a connector under test declared to be capable of multi-carrier and/or CA
operation set the connector under test to transmit on all carriers configured
using the applicable test configuration and corresponding power setting
specified in clauses 4.7 and 4.8 using the corresponding test models or set of
physical channels in clause 4.9.2.
3) Measure the _maximum passband output power measured per antenna connector_
(P~max,p,AC~) for each carrier at each connector under test.
In addition, for _multi-band connectors_ , the following steps shall apply:
4) For a _multi-band connectors_ and single band tests, repeat the steps above
per involved _operating band_ where single band test configurations and test
models shall apply with no carrier activated in the other _operating band_.
### 6.2.5 Test requirement
For each _single-band connector_ or _multi-band connector_ under test, the
power measured in clause 6.2.4.2 in step 3 (P~max,p,AC~) shall remain within
the values provided in table 6.2.5-1 for normal and extreme test environments,
relative to the manufacturer\'s declared P~rated,p,AC~ for _repeater type 1-C_
(D.9):
Table 6.2.5-1: Test requirements for conducted repeater output power accuracy
Normal test environment Extreme test environment
* * *
f ≤ 3.0 GHz: ± 2.7 dB f ≤ 3.0 GHz: ± 3.2 dB 3.0 GHz \ \- Measurement filter bandwidth: defined in clause 6.5.2.5.
\- Detection mode: true RMS voltage or true average power.
2) Set the input signal to the representative connectors under test according
to the applicable test configuration in clause 4.7 using the corresponding
test models RDL-FR1-TM1.1 and RUL-FR1-TM1.1 in clause 4.9.2 at the input power
intended to produce the maximum rated output power, P~in,p,AC~ + 10dB.
3) Measure ACLR for the frequency offsets both side of the passband edge as
specified in clause 6.5.2.5. In multiple carrier case only offset frequencies
below the lowest and above the highest carrier frequency used shall be
measured.
4) For the ACLR requirement applied inside _gap between passbands_ , or inside
_Inter passband gap_ for multi-band operation:
a) Measure ACLR inside _gap between passbands_ or _Inter passband gap_ as
specified in clause 6.5.2.5, if applicable.
b) Measure CACLR inside _gap between passbands_ or _Inter passband gap_ as
specified in clause 6.5.2.5, if applicable.
5) Repeat the test with the channel set-up according to RDL-FR1-TM1.2 for DL
and RUL-FR1-TM1.2 for UL in clause 4.9.2.
In addition, for _multi-band connectors_ , the following steps shall apply:
6) For a _multi-band connectors_ and single band tests, repeat the steps above
per involved _operating band_ where single band test configurations and test
models shall apply with no carrier activated in the other _operating band_.
#### 6.5.2.5 Test requirements
The ACLR is defined with a square filter of bandwidth equal to the
transmission bandwidth configuration of the transmitted signal (BW~Config~)
centred on the assigned channel frequency and a filter centred on the adjacent
channel frequency according to the tables below.
The ACLR shall be higher than the value specified in table 6.5.2.5‑1 for
_repeater type 1-C_ for DL and UL for Wide Area class.
For _repeater type 1-C_ for DL and for UL for WA class, the ACLR (CACLR)
absolute limits in table 6.5.2.5-2, 6.5.2.5-5 or the ACLR (CACLR) _limits_ in
table 6.5.2.5-1, 6.5.2.5-3 or 6.5.2.5-4, whichever is less stringent, shall
apply for each _antenna connector_.
For Band n41 and n90 operation in Japan, absolute ACLR limits shall be applied
to the sum of the absolute ACLR power over all _antenna connectors_ for
_repeater type 1-C_.
Table 6.5.2.5-1: _Repeater type 1-C_ ACLR limit for DL and for UL for Wide
Area class
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | _Repeater |_ Repeater | Assumed | Filter on | ACLR limit | | type 1-C _| type 1-C_ | adjacent | the | | | nominal | adjacent | channel | adjacent | | | channel | channel | carrier | channel | | | bandwidth | centre | (i | frequency | | | BW~Nominal~ | frequency | nformative) | and | | | (MHz) | offset | | co | | | | below t or | | rresponding | | | | above the | | filter | | | | passband | | bandwidth | | | | edge | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | 5, 10, 15, | BW | NR of same | Square | 44.2 dB | | 20 | ~Nominal~/2 | BW (Note 2) | ( | (Note 4) | | | | | BW~Config~) | | | | | | | 37.2 dB | | | | | | (Note 5) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1.5 x | NR of same | Square | 44.2 dB | | | BW~Nominal~ | BW (Note 2) | ( | (Note 4) | | | | | BW~Config~) | | | | | | | 37.2 dB | | | | | | (Note 5) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 2.5 MHz | 5 MHz | Square (4.5 | 44.2 dB | | | | E-UTRA | MHz) | (Note 3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 7.5 MHz | 5 MHz | Square (4.5 | 44.2 dB | | | | E-UTRA | MHz) | (Note 3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 25, 30, 35, | BW | NR of same | Square | 43.8 dB | | 40, 45, 50, | ~Nominal~/2 | BW (Note 2) | ( | (Note 4) | | 60, 70, 80, | | | BW~Config~) | | | 90, 100 | | | | 36.8 dB | | | | | | (Note 5) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1.5 x | NR of same | Square | 43.8 dB | | | BW~Nominal~ | BW (Note 2) | ( | (Note 4) | | | | | BW~Config~) | | | | | | | 36.8 dB | | | | | | (Note 5) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 2.5 MHz | 5 MHz | Square (4.5 | 43.8 dB | | | | E-UTRA | MHz) | (Note 3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 7.5 MHz | 5 MHz | Square (4.5 | 43.8 dB | | | | E-UTRA | MHz) | (Note 3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | BW~No | | | | | | minal~ is t | | | | | | he  _nominal | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | idth._ BW~C | | | | | | onfig~__ is | | | | | | the  _t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | con | | | | | | figuration_ | | | | | | assumed for | | | | | | the | | | | | | adjacent | | | | | | channel. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | With SCS | | | | | | that | | | | | | provides | | | | | | largest | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | (B | | | | | | W~Config~). | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | are | | | | | | applicable | | | | | | when the | | | | | | band is | | | | | | also | | | | | | defined for | | | | | | E-UTRA or | | | | | | UTRA. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | Applicable | | | | | | to bands | | | | | | other than | | | | | | n104. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: | | | | | | Applicable | | | | | | to band | | | | | | n104. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
The ACLR absolute limit is specified in table 6.5.2.5‑2.
The ACLR shall be higher than the value specified in table 6.5.2.5‑1a for
_repeater type 1-C_ for UL Local Area.
Table 6.5.2.5-1a: _Repeater type 1-C_ ACLR limit for UL for Local Area
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | _Repeater |_ Repeater | Assumed | Filter on | ACLR limit | | type 1-C _| type 1-C_ | adjacent | the | | | nominal | adjacent | channel | adjacent | | | channel | channel | carrier | channel | | | bandwidth | centre | (i | frequency | | | **BW | frequency | nformative) | and | | | ~Nominal~** | offset | | co | | | (MHz) | below above | | rresponding | | | | the | | filter | | | | passband | | bandwidth | | | | edge | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+============+ | 5, 10, 15, | BW | NR of same | Square | 30.2 dB | | 20 | ~Nominal~/2 | BW (Note 2) | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | 1.5 x | NR of same | Square | 30.2 dB | | | BW~Nominal~ | BW (Note 2) | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | 2.5 MHz | 5 MHz | Square (4.5 | 30.2 dB | | | | E-UTRA | MHz) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | 7.5 MHz | 5 MHz | Square (4.5 | 30.2 dB | | | | E-UTRA | MHz) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | 25, 30, 35, | BW | NR of same | Square | 29.8 dB | | 40, 45, 50, | ~Nominal~/2 | BW (Note 2) | ( | | | 60, 70, 80, | | | BW~Config~) | | | 90, 100 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | 1.5 x | NR of same | Square | 29.8 dB | | | BW~Nominal~ | BW (Note 2) | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | 2.5 MHz | 5 MHz | Square (4.5 | 29.8 dB | | | | E-UTRA | MHz) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | 7.5 MHz | 5 MHz | Square (4.5 | 29.8 dB | | | | E-UTRA | MHz) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | BW~No | | | | | | minal~ is t | | | | | | he  _nominal | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | idth._ BW~C | | | | | | onfig~__ is | | | | | | the  _t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | con | | | | | | figuration_ | | | | | | assumed for | | | | | | the | | | | | | adjacent | | | | | | channel. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | With SCS | | | | | | that | | | | | | provides | | | | | | the largest | | | | | | _t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | con | | | | | | figuration_ | | | | | | (B | | | | | | W~Config~). | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | are | | | | | | applicable | | | | | | when the | | | | | | band is | | | | | | also | | | | | | defined for | | | | | | E-UTRA or | | | | | | UTRA. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
Table 6.5.2.5-2: _Repeater type 1-C_ ACLR absolute limit for DL and UL for WA
class, for DL for MR class and for DL for LA class
Repeater category / class ACLR absolute _limit_
* * *
Category A Wide Area DL and UL -13 dBm/MHz Category B Wide Area DL and UL -15
dBm/MHz Medium Range DL -25 dBm/MHz Local Area DL -32 dBm/MHz
For operation in non-contiguous spectrum or multiple bands, the ACLR shall be
higher than the value specified in Table 6.5.2.5‑3 or Table 6.5.2.5-3a.
Table 6.5.2.5-3: _Repeater type 1-C_ ACLR limit in non-contiguous spectrum or
multiple bands for DL (all repeater classes) and for UL for Wide Area class
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | * | _Gap | * | Assumed | Filter | ACLR | | Repeater | between | Repeater | adjacent | on the | limit | | type | pa | type | channel | adjacent | | | 1-C_ | ssbands _| 1-C_ | carrier | channel | | | nominal | or | adjacent | | f | | | channel | inter-_p | channel | | requency | | | b | assband_ | centre | | and | | | andwidth | _gap_ | f | | corre | | | **BW~No | size | requency | | sponding | | | minal~** | (W~gap~) | offset | | filter | | | (MHz) | where | below or | | b | | | | the | above | | andwidth | | | | limit | the | | | | | | applies | _p | | | | | | (MHz) | assband_ | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | (inside | | | | | | | the gap) | | | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | 5, 10, | W~gap~ ≥ | 2.5 MHz | 5 MHz NR | Square | 44.2 dB | | 15, 20 | 15 (Note | | (Note 2) | (BW~ | (Note 5) | | | 3) | | | Config~) | | | | | | | | 37.2 dB | | | W~gap~ ≥ | | | | (Note 6) | | | 45 (Note | | | | | | | 4) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | W~gap~ ≥ | 7.5 MHz | 5 MHz NR | Square | 44.2 dB | | | 20 (Note | | (Note 2) | (BW~ | (Note 5) | | | 3) | | | Config~) | | | | | | | | 37.2 dB | | | W~gap~ ≥ | | | | (Note 6) | | | 50 (Note | | | | | | | 4) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 25, 30, | W~gap~ ≥ | 10 MHz | 20 MHz | Square | 43.8 dB | | 35, 40, | 60 (Note | | NR (Note | (BW~ | (Note 5) | | 45, 50, | 4) | | 2) | Config~) | | | 60, 70, | | | | | 36.8 dB | | 80, 90, | W~gap~ ≥ | | | | (Note 6) | | 100 | 30 (Note | | | | | | | 3) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | W~gap~ ≥ | 30 MHz | 20 MHz | Square | 43.8 dB | | | 80 (Note | | NR (Note | (BW~ | (Note 5) | | | 4) | | 2) | Config~) | | | | | | | | 36.8 dB | | | W~gap~ ≥ | | | | (Note 6) | | | 50 (Note | | | | | | | 3) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | BW~ | | | | | | | Nominal~ | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | | _nominal | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | dwidth. | | | | | | |_ BW~Conf | | | | | | | ig~__ is | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | he  _tran | | | | | | | smission | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | config | | | | | | | uration_ | | | | | | | assumed | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | adjacent | | | | | | | channel. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | With SCS | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | provides | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | largest | | | | | | | _tran | | | | | | | smission | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | config | | | | | | | uration_ | | | | | | | (BW~C | | | | | | | onfig~). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | in case | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | * | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | type 1-C | | | | | | | nominal | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | ndwidth _| | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | edge of | | | | | | | the gap | | | | | | | is ≤ 20 | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | in case | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | * | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | type 1-C | | | | | | | nominal | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | ndwidth_ | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | edge of | | | | | | | the gap | | | | | | | is > 20 | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | to bands | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | n104. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | to band | | | | | | | n104. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table 6.5.2.5-3a: _Repeater type 1-C_ ACLR limit in non-contiguous spectrum or
multiple bands for UL for Local Area class
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | * | _Gap | * | Assumed | Filter | ACLR | | Repeater | between | Repeater | adjacent | on the | limit | | type | pa | type | channel | adjacent | | | 1-C_ | ssbands _| 1-C_ | carrier | channel | | | nominal | or | adjacent | | f | | | channel | inter-_p | channel | | requency | | | b | assband_ | centre | | and | | | andwidth | _gap_ | f | | corre | | | **BW~N | size | requency | | sponding | | | ominal\ | (W~gap~) | offset | | filter | | | ~**(MHz) | where | below or | | b | | | | the | above | | andwidth | | | | limit | the | | | | | | applies | passband | | | | | | (MHz) | edge | | | | | | | (inside | | | | | | | the gap) | | | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | 5, 10, | W~gap~ ≥ | 2.5 MHz | 5 MHz NR | Square | 30.2 dB | | 15, 20 | 15 (Note | | (Note 2) | (BW~ | | | | 3) | | | Config~) | | | | | | | | | | | W~gap~ ≥ | | | | | | | 45 (Note | | | | | | | 4) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | W~gap~ ≥ | 7.5 MHz | 5 MHz NR | Square | 30.2 dB | | | 20 (Note | | (Note 2) | (BW~ | | | | 3) | | | Config~) | | | | | | | | | | | W~gap~ ≥ | | | | | | | 50 (Note | | | | | | | 4) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 25, 30, | W~gap~ ≥ | 10 MHz | 20 MHz | Square | 29.8 dB | | 35, 40, | 60 (Note | | NR (Note | (BW~ | | | 45, 50, | 4) | | 2) | Config~) | | | 60, 70, | | | | | | | 80, 90, | W~gap~ ≥ | | | | | | 100 | 30 (Note | | | | | | | 3) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | W~gap~ ≥ | 30 MHz | 20 MHz | Square | 29.8 dB | | | 80 (Note | | NR (Note | (BW~ | | | | 4) | | 2) | Config~) | | | | | | | | | | | W~gap~ ≥ | | | | | | | 50 (Note | | | | | | | 3) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | BW~ | | | | | | | Nominal~ | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | | _nominal | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | dwidth_. | | | | | | | BW | | | | | | | ~Config~ | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | | _tran | | | | | | | smission | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | config | | | | | | | uration_ | | | | | | | assumed | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | adjacent | | | | | | | channel. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | With SCS | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | provides | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | largest | | | | | | | _tran | | | | | | | smission | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | config | | | | | | | uration_ | | | | | | | (BW~C | | | | | | | onfig~). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | in case | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | * | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | type 1-C | | | | | | | nominal | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | ndwidth _| | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | edge of | | | | | | | the gap | | | | | | | is ≤ 20 | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | in case | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | * | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | type 1-C | | | | | | | nominal | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | ndwidth_ | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | edge of | | | | | | | the gap | | | | | | | is > 20 | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
The Cumulative Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (CACLR) in a _gap between
passband_ or the _inter-passband gap_ is the ratio of:
a) the sum of the filtered mean power centred on the assigned channel
frequencies for the two carriers adjacent to each side of the _gap between
passband_ or the _inter-passband gap_ , and
b) the filtered mean power centred on a frequency channel adjacent to one of
the respective _repeater type 1-C passband edges_.
The assumed filter for the adjacent channel frequency is defined in
table6.5.2.5-4 and 6.5.2.5-4a and the filters on the assigned channels are
defined in table 6.5.2.5-6.
For operation in _non-contiguous spectrum_ or multiple bands, the CACLR for
_repeater type 1-C_ for DL and for UL for WA class for NR carriers located on
either side of the _gap between passband_ or the _inter-passband gap_ shall be
higher than the value specified in table 6.5.2.5-4.
Table 6.5.2.5-4: _Repeater type 1-C_ CACLR limit for DL and for UL for Wide
Area class
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | * | _Gap | * | Assumed | Filter | CACLR | | Repeater | between | Repeater | adjacent | on the | limit | | type | pa | type | channel | adjacent | | | 1-C_ | ssbands _| 1-C_ | carrier | channel | | | nominal | or | adjacent | | f | | | channel | inter-_p | channel | | requency | | | b | assband_ | centre | | and | | | andwidth | _gap_ | f | | corre | | | BW~ | size | requency | | sponding | | | Nominal~ | (W~gap~) | offset | | filter | | | | where | below or | | b | | | (MHz) | the | above | | andwidth | | | | limit | the | | | | | | applies | _p | | | | | | (MHz) | assband_ | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | (inside | | | | | | | the gap) | | | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | 5, 10, | 5 | 2.5 MHz | 5 MHz NR | Square | 44.2 dB | | 15, 20 | ≤ | | (Note 2) | (BW~ | | | | W~gap~\ | | | | | | | 20MHz. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
The CACLR shall be higher than the value specified in table 6.5.2.5-4a for
_repeater type 1-C_ for UL Local Area.
Table 6.5.2.5-4a: _Repeater type 1-C C_ ACLR limit for UL for Local Area
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | * | _Gap | * | Assumed | Filter | CACLR | | Repeater | between | Repeater | adjacent | on the | limit | | type | pa | type | channel | adjacent | | | 1-C_ | ssbands _| 1-C_ | carrier | channel | | | nominal | or | adjacent | | f | | | channel | _inter-p | channel | | requency | | | b | assband_ | centre | | and | | | andwidth | _gap_ | f | | corre | | | **BW~No | size | requency | | sponding | | | minal~** | (W~gap~) | offset | | filter | | | (MHz) | where | below or | | b | | | | the | above | | andwidth | | | | limit | the | | | | | | applies | _p | | | | | | (MHz) | assband_ | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | (inside | | | | | | | the gap) | | | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | 5, 10, | 5 | 2.5 MHz | 5 MHz NR | Square | 30.2 dB | | 15, 20 | ≤ | | (Note 2) | (BW~ | | | | W~gap~\ 20 | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
The CACLR absolute limit is specified in table 6.5.2.5‑5.
Table 6.5.2.5-5: _Repeater type 1-C_ CACLR absolute _limit_ for DL and UL for
WA class, for DL for MR class and for DL for LA class
_Repeater type 1-C_ category / class CACLR absolute _limit_
* * *
Category A Wide Area DL and UL -13 dBm/MHz Category B Wide Area DL and UL -15
dBm/MHz Medium Range DL -25 dBm/MHz Local Area DL -32 dBm/MHz
Table 6.5.2.5-6: Filter parameters for the assigned channel
RAT of the carrier adjacent to the gap between passbands or inter-passband gap
Filter on the assigned channel frequency and corresponding filter bandwidth
* * *
NR NR of same BW with SCS that provides largest _transmission bandwidth
configuration_
### 6.5.3 Operating band unwanted emissions
#### 6.5.3.1 Definition and applicability
Unless otherwise stated, the operating band unwanted emission (OBUE) limits
for _repeater type 1-C_ DL are defined from Δf~OBUE~ below the lowest
frequency of each supported downlink _operating band_ up to Δf~OBUE~ above the
highest frequency of each supported downlink _operating band_. The values of
Δf~OBUE~ are defined in table 6.5.1‑1 for the NR _operating bands_.
Unless otherwise stated, the operating band unwanted emission (OBUE) limits
for _repeater type 1-C_ UL are defined from Δf~OBUE~ below the lowest
frequency of each supported uplink _operating band_ up to Δf~OBUE~ above the
highest frequency of each supported uplink _operating band_. The values of
Δf~OBUE~ are defined in table 6.5.1‑2 for the NR _operating bands_.
The requirements shall apply whatever the type of transmitter considered and
for all transmission modes foreseen by the manufacturer's specification. In
addition, for _repeater type 1-C_ operating in _non-contiguous spectrum_ , the
requirements apply inside any _gap between passband_. In addition, for a
_repeater type 1-C_ operating in multiple bands, the requirements apply inside
any _inter-passband_ _gap_.
_Limits_ are specified in the tables below, where:
\- ∆f is the separation between the _passband edge_ frequency and the nominal
-3dB point of the measuring filter closest to the carrier frequency.
\- f_offset is the separation between the _passband edge_ frequency and the
centre of the measuring filter.
\- f_offset~max~ is the offset to the frequency Δf~OBUE~ outside the downlink
_operating band of repeater type 1-C DL and uplink operating band of repeater
type 1-C UL_ , where Δf~OBUE~ is defined in tables 6.5.1-1 and 6.5.1-2.
\- ∆f~max~ is equal to f_offset~max~ minus half of the bandwidth of the
measuring filter.
For a _multi-band connector_ inside any **_inter-passband_ _gaps_ with W~gap~
\3GHz) for Category A
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Frequency | _Minimum | Measurement | | offset of | offset of | requirement_ | bandwidth | | measurement | measurement | (Note 1, 2) | | | filter ‑3dB | filter centre | | | | point, ∆f | frequency, | | | | | f_offset | | | +================+================+================+================+ | 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \3GHz) for Category B
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Frequency | _Minimum | Measurement | | offset of | offset of | requirement_ | bandwidth | | measurement | measurement | (Note 1, 2) | | | filter ‑3dB | filter centre | | | | point, ∆f | frequency, | | | | | f_offset | | | +================+================+================+================+ | 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \3GHz)
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Frequency | _Minimum | Measurement | | offset of | offset of | requirements_ | bandwidth | | measurement | measurement | (Note 1, 2) | | | filter ‑3dB | filter centre | | | | point, ∆f | frequency, | | | | | f_offset | | | +================+================+================+================+ | 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \3GHz)
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Frequency | _Minimum | Measurement | | offset of | offset of | requirements_ | bandwidth | | measurement | measurement | (Note 1, 2) | | | filter ‑3dB | filter centre | | | | point, ∆f | frequency, | | | | | f_offset | | | +================+================+================+================+ | 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \ 3 GHz, _minimum requirements_
are specified in table 6.5.3.4.4-2.
Table 6.5.3.4.4-1: Local Area _repeater type 1-C_ operating band unwanted
emission limits (NR bands ≤3GHz)
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Frequency | _Minimum |_ Measurement | | offset of | offset of | requirements _| bandwidth_ | | measurement | measurement | (Note 1, 2) | | | filter ‑3dB | filter centre | | | | point, ∆f | frequency, | | | | | f_offset | | | +================+================+================+================+ | 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \3GHz)
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Frequency | _Minimum | Measurement | | offset of | offset of | requirements_ | bandwidth | | measurement | measurement | (Note 1, 2) | | | filter ‑3dB | filter centre | | | | point, ∆f | frequency, | | | | | f_offset | | | +================+================+================+================+ | 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \ NOTE 1: As defined in the scope for spurious emissions in this clause,
> except for the cases where the noted requirements apply to a repeater
> operating in Band n28, the co-existence requirements in table 6.5.4.5.2 -1
> do not apply for the Δf~OBUE~ frequency range immediately outside the
> downlink _operating band_. Emission limits for this excluded frequency range
> may be covered by local or regional requirements.
>
> NOTE 2: Table 6.5.4.5.2 -1 assumes that two _operating bands_ , where the
> frequency ranges would be overlapping, are not deployed in the same
> geographical area. For such a case of operation with overlapping frequency
> arrangements in the same geographical area, special co-existence
> requirements may apply that are not covered by the 3GPP specifications.
>
> NOTE 3: For unsynchronized operation, special co-existence requirements may
> apply that are not covered by the 3GPP specifications.
>
> NOTE 4: For NR Band n28 repeater, specific solutions may be required to
> fulfil the spurious emissions limits for repeater for co-existence with
> E-UTRA Band 27 UL _operating band_.
>
> NOTE 5: For NR Band n29 repeater, specific solutions may be required to
> fulfil the spurious emissions limits for NR repeater for co-existence with
> UTRA Band XII, E-UTRA Band 12 or NR Band n12 UL operating band, E-UTRA Band
> 17 UL operating band or E-UTRA Band 85 UL or NR Band n85 UL operating band.
The following requirement may be applied for the protection of PHS. This
requirement is also applicable at specified frequencies falling between
Δf~OBUE~ below the lowest repeater transmitter frequency of the downlink
_operating band_ and Δf~OBUE~ above the highest repeater transmitter frequency
of the downlink _operating band_. Δf~OBUE~ is defined in clause 6.5.1.
The spurious emission _minimum requirements_ for this requirement are:
**Table 6.5.4.5.2-2: Repeater spurious emissions minimum requirements for
repeater for co-existence with PHS for DL**
**Frequency range** **_minimum requirements_** **_Measurement Bandwidth_**
**Note**
* * *
1884.5 -- 1915.7 MHz -41 dBm 300 kHz Applicable when co-existence with PHS
system operating in 1884.5 -- 1915.7 MHz
In certain regions, the following requirement may apply to NR repeater
operating in Band n50 and n75 within the 1432 -- 1452 MHz, and in Band n51 and
Band n76. The _minimum requirements are_ specified in Table 6.5.4.5.2-3. This
requirement is also applicable at the frequency range from Δf~OBUE~ below the
lowest frequency of the repeater downlink _operating band_ up to Δf~OBUE~
above the highest frequency of the repeater downlink _operating band_.
**Table 6.5.4.5.2-3: Additional operating band unwanted emission minimum
requirement for NR repeater operating in Band n50 and n75 within 1432 -- 1452
MHz, and in Band n51 and n76**
**Filter centre frequency, F~filter~** **_Minimum requirements_**
**_Measurement Bandwidth_**
* * *
F~filter~ = 1413.5 MHz -42 dBm 27 MHz
In certain regions, the following requirement may apply to repeater operating
in NR Band n50 and n75 within 1492-1517 MHz and in Band n74 within 1492-1518
MHz. The maximum level of emissions, measured on centre frequencies F~filter~
with filter bandwidth according to Table 6.5.4.5.2-4, shall be defined
according to the _minimum requirements_ P~EM,n50/n75,a~ nor P~EM,n50/n75,b~
declared by the manufacturer.
**Table 6.5.4.5.2-4:_Operating band_ n50, n74 and n75 declared emission above
1518 MHz**
**Filter centre frequency, F~filter~** **Declared _minimum requirements
_(dBm)_ * _**Measurement bandwidth***
* * *
1518.5 MHz ≤ F~filter~ ≤ 1519.5 MHz P~EM,\ n50/n75,a~ 1 MHz 1520.5 MHz ≤
F~filter~ ≤ 1558.5 MHz P~EM,n50/n75,b~ 1 MHz
In certain regions, the following requirement shall be applied to repeater
operating in Band n13 and n14 to ensure that appropriate interference
protection is provided to 700 MHz public safety operations. This requirement
is also applicable at the frequency range from 10 MHz below the lowest
frequency of the repeater downlink operating band up to 10 MHz above the
highest frequency of the repeater downlink operating band.
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
**Table 6.5.4.5.2-5: Repeater spurious emissions limits for protection of 700
MHz public safety operations**
**Operating Band** **Frequency range** **Maximum Level** **_Measurement
Bandwidth_**
* * *
n13 763 - 775 MHz -46 dBm 6.25 kHz n13 793 - 805 MHz -46 dBm 6.25 kHz n14 769
- 775 MHz -46 dBm 6.25 kHz n14 799 - 805 MHz -46 dBm 6.25 kHz
In certain regions, the following requirement may apply to NR repeater
operating in Band n30. This requirement is also applicable at the frequency
range from 10 MHz below the lowest frequency of the repeater downlink
operating band up to 10 MHz above the highest frequency of the repeater
downlink operating band.
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
**Table 6.5.4.5.2-6: Additional NR repeater spurious emissions minimum
requirements for Band n30**
**Frequency range** **_Minimum requirements_** **_Measurement Bandwidth_**
**Note**
* * *
2200 -- 2345 MHz -45 dBm 1 MHz  
2362.5 -- 2365 MHz -25 dBm 1 MHz  
2365 -- 2367.5 MHz -40 dBm 1 MHz  
2367.5 -- 2370 MHz -42 dBm 1 MHz  
2370 -- 2395 MHz -45 dBm 1 MHz
The following requirement may apply to repeater operating in Band n48 in
certain regions. The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
**Table 6.5.4.5.2-7: Additional repeater spurious emissions limits for Band
n48**
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Frequency |** Maximum | **_Measurement |_ *Note** | | range**| Level** | Bandwidth _| | | | | (NOTE)__| | +================+================+================+================+ | 3530 MHz -- | -25 dBm | 1 MHz | Applicable | | 3720 MHz | | | 10 MHz from | | | | | the assigned | | | | |_ passband | | | | | edge* | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 3100 MHz -- | -40 dBm | 1 MHz | | | 3530 MHz | | | | | | | | | | 3720 MHz -- | | | | | 4200 MHz | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
NOTE: The resolution bandwidth of the measuring equipment should be equal to
the measurement bandwidth. However, to improve measurement accuracy,
sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution bandwidth may be smaller than the
measurement bandwidth. When the resolution bandwidth is smaller than the
measurement bandwidth, the result should be integrated over the measurement
bandwidth in order to obtain the equivalent noise bandwidth of the measurement
bandwidth.
NOTE: The regional requirement, included in [14], is defined in terms of EIRP,
which is dependent on both the repeater emissions at the _antenna connector_
and the deployment (including antenna gain and feeder loss). The requirement
defined above provides the characteristics of the base station needed to
verify compliance with the regional requirement. The assessment of the EIRP
level is described in Annex F.
The following requirement shall be applied to repeater operating in Band n26
to ensure that appropriate interference protection is provided to 800 MHz
public safety operations. This requirement is also applicable at the frequency
range from 10 MHz below the lowest frequency of the repeater downlink
operating band up to 10 MHz above the highest frequency of the repeater
downlink operating band.
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
Table 6.5.4.5.2-8: Repeater spurious emissions limits for protection of 800
MHz public safety operations
Operating Band Frequency range Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note
* * *
n26 851 - 859 MHz -13 dBm 100 kHz Applicable for offsets > 37.5kHz from the
_passband_ edge
The following requirement may apply to Repeater for Band n41 and n90 operation
in Japan. This requirement is also applicable at the frequency range from
Δf~OBUE~ below the lowest frequency of the Repeater downlink operating band up
to Δf~OBUE~ above the highest frequency of the Repeater downlink operating
band.
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
Table 6.5.4.5.2-9: Additional repeater spurious emissions minimum requirements
for Band n41 and n90
Frequency range _Minimum requirement_ _Measurement Bandwidth_
* * *
2505 MHz -- 2535 MHz -42 dBm 1 MHz NOTE: This requirement applies for carriers
allocated within 2545-2645 MHz.
The following requirement may apply to repeater operating in 3.45-3.55 GHz in
Band n77 in certain regions. Emissions shall not exceed the maximum levels
specified in table 6.5.4.2.3-11.
Table 6.5.4.5.2-10: Additional repeater spurious emissions limits for Band n77
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Channel | Frequency | Filter | Minimum | * | | bandwidth | range | centre | requirement | Measurement | | [MHz] | [MHz] | frequency, | [dBm] | bandwidth* | | | | F~filter~ | | [MHz] | | | | [MHz] | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | All | 3430 -- | 3430.5 ≤ | -25 | 1 | | | 3440 | F~filter~ | | | | | | \ 3570 | | | | | | | 3570.5 ≤ | | | | | | F~filter~ | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
NOTE: The resolution bandwidth of the measuring equipment should be equal to
the measurement bandwidth. However, to improve measurement accuracy,
sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution bandwidth may be smaller than the
measurement bandwidth. When the resolution bandwidth is smaller than the
measurement bandwidth, the result should be integrated over the measurement
bandwidth in order to obtain the equivalent noise bandwidth of the measurement
bandwidth.
##### 6.5.4.5.3 Co-location with base stations and _repeater type 1-C_ Nodes
These requirements may be applied for the protection of other BS, IAB-DU, IAB-
MT and _repeater type 1-C_ receivers when GSM900, DCS1800, PCS1900, GSM850,
CDMA850, UTRA FDD, UTRA TDD, E-UTRA, NR BS, IAB-DU, IAB-MT, or _repeater type
1-C_ are co-located with _repeater type 1-C_.
The requirements assume a 30 dB coupling loss between transmitter and receiver
and are based on co-location with same class.
The _minimum requirements_ are in table 6.5.4.5.3-1 for a _repeater type 1-C_.
Requirements for co-location with a system listed in the first column apply,
depending on the declared _repeater type 1-C_ class. For a _multi-band
connector_ , the exclusions and conditions in the Note column of table
6.5.4.5.3-1 shall apply for each supported _operating band_.
Table 6.5.4.5.3-1: _Repeater type 1-C_ spurious emissions minimum requirements
for co-location with BS, IAB-Node or repeater-Node
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Type of | Fr | * | Meas | Note | | | | co- | equency | Minimum | urement | | | | | located | range | requir | | | | | | BS | for | ements* | | | | | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+ | | co-l | WA | MR | LA | ba | | | | ocation | r | r | r | ndwidth | | | | requ | epeater | epeater | epeater | | | | | irement | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GSM900 | 876 -- | -98 dBm | -91 dBm | -70 dBm | 100 kHz | | | | 915 MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | DCS1800 | 1710 -- | -98 dBm | -91 dBm | -80 dBm | 100 kHz | | | | 1785 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | PCS1900 | 1850 -- | -98 dBm | -91 dBm | -80 dBm | 100 kHz | | | | 1910 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GSM850 | 824 -- | -98 dBm | -91 dBm | -70 dBm | 100 kHz | | | or | 849 MHz | | | | | | | CDMA850 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1920 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 1980 | | | | | | | Band I | MHz | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 1 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band n1 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1850 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 1910 | | | | | | | Band II | MHz | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 2 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band n2 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1710 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 1785 | | | | | | | Band | MHz | | | | | | | III or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 3 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band n3 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1710 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 1755 | | | | | | | Band IV | MHz | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 4 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 824 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 849 MHz | | | | | | | Band V | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 5 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band n5 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 830 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 845 MHz | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | VI, XIX | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 6, | | | | | | | | 19 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 2500 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 2570 | | | | | | | Band | MHz | | | | | | | VII or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 7 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band n7 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 880 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 915 MHz | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | VIII or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 8 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band n8 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1749.9 | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | -- | | | | | | | Band IX | 1784.9 | | | | | | | or | MHz | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 9 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1710 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 1770 | | | | | | | Band X | MHz | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 10 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1427.9 | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | FDD | - | | | | | not | | Band XI | -1447.9 | | | | | app | | or | MHz | | | | | licable | | E-UTRA | | | | | | to | | Band 11 | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | epeater | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | n50, | | | | | | | | n75, | | | | | | | | n91, | | | | | | | | n92, | | | | | | | | n93 or | | | | | | | | n94 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 699 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 716 MHz | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | XII or | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 12 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | n12 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 777 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 787 MHz | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | XIII or | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 13 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | n13 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 788 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 798 MHz | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | XIV or | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 14 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | n14 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 704 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band 17 | 716 MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 815 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band 18 | 830 MHz | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | n18 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 832 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 862 MHz | | | | | | | Band XX | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 20 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | n20 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1447.9 | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | FDD | -- | | | | | not | | Band | 1462.9 | | | | | app | | XXI or | MHz | | | | | licable | | E-UTRA | | | | | | to | | Band 21 | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | epeater | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | n50, | | | | | | | | n75, | | | | | | | | n92 or | | | | | | | | n94 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 3410 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | FDD | 3490 | | | | | not | | Band | MHz | | | | | app | | XXII or | | | | | | licable | | E-UTRA | | | | | | to | | Band 22 | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | epeater | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | n48, | | | | | | | | n77 or | | | | | | | | n78 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 1626.5 | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band 24 | -- | | | | | | | or NR | 1660.5 | | | | | | | Band | MHz | | | | | | | n24 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1850 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 1915 | | | | | | | Band | MHz | | | | | | | XXV or | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 25 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | n25 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 814 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | FDD | 849 MHz | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | XXVI or | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 26 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | n26 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 807 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band 27 | 824 MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 703 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band 28 | 748 MHz | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | n28 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 2305 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band 30 | 2315 | | | | | | | or NR | MHz | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | n30 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 452.5 | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band 31 | -- | | | | | | | | 457.5 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1900 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | TDD | 1920 | | | | | | | Band a) | MHz | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 33 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 2010 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | TDD | 2025 | | | | | not | | Band a) | MHz | | | | | app | | or | | | | | | licable | | E-UTRA | | | | | | to | | Band 34 | | | | | | r | | or NR | | | | | | epeater | | band | | | | | | op | | n34 | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | n34 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1850 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | TDD | 1910 | | | | | | | Band b) | MHz | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 35 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1930 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | TDD | 1990 | | | | | not | | Band b) | MHz | | | | | app | | or | | | | | | licable | | E-UTRA | | | | | | to | | Band 36 | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | epeater | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | n2 or | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | n25 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1910 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | TDD | 1930 | | | | | | | Band c) | MHz | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 37 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 2570 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | TDD | 2620 | | | | | not | | Band d) | MHz | | | | | app | | or | | | | | | licable | | E-UTRA | | | | | | to | | Band 38 | | | | | | r | | or NR | | | | | | epeater | | Band | | | | | | op | | n38 | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | n38. | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1880 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | TDD | 1920MHz | | | | | not | | Band f) | | | | | | app | | or | | | | | | licable | | E-UTRA | | | | | | to | | Band 39 | | | | | | r | | or NR | | | | | | epeater | | band | | | | | | op | | n39 | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | n39 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 2300 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | TDD | 2400MHz | | | | | not | | Band e) | | | | | | app | | or | | | | | | licable | | E-UTRA | | | | | | to | | Band 40 | | | | | | r | | or NR | | | | | | epeater | | Band | | | | | | op | | n40 | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | n30 or | | | | | | | | n40. | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 2496 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | Band 41 | 2690 | | | | | not | | or NR | MHz | | | | | app | | Band | | | | | | licable | | n41, | | | | | | to | | n90 | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | epeater | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | n41, | | | | | | | | n53 or | | | | | | | | [n90] | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 3400 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | Band 42 | 3600 | | | | | not | | | MHz | | | | | app | | | | | | | | licable | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | epeater | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | n48, | | | | | | | | n77 or | | | | | | | | n78 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 3600 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | Band 43 | 3800 | | | | | not | | | MHz | | | | | app | | | | | | | | licable | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | epeater | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | n48, | | | | | | | | n77 or | | | | | | | | n78 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 703 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | Band 44 | 803 MHz | | | | | not | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | licable | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | epeater | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | n28 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 1447 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band 45 | 1467 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 5150 -- | N/A | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | Band 46 | 5925 | | | | | not | | or NR | MHz | | | | | app | | Band | | | | | | licable | | n46 | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | epeater | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | n46 or | | | | | | | | n96 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 3550 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | Band 48 | 3700 | | | | | not | | or NR | MHz | | | | | app | | Band | | | | | | licable | | n48 | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | epeater | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | n48, | | | | | | | | n77 or | | | | | | | | n78 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 1432 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | Band 50 | 1517 | | | | | not | | or NR | MHz | | | | | app | | Band | | | | | | licable | | n50 | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | epeater | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | n51, | | | | | | | | n74, | | | | | | | | n75, | | | | | | | | n91, | | | | | | | | n92, | | | | | | | | n93 or | | | | | | | | n94 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 1427 -- | N/A | N/A | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | Band 51 | 1432 | | | | | not | | or NR | MHz | | | | | app | | Band | | | | | | licable | | n51 | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | epeater | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | n50, | | | | | | | | n74, | | | | | | | | n75, | | | | | | | | n76, | | | | | | | | n91, | | | | | | | | n92, | | | | | | | | n93 or | | | | | | | | n94 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 2483.5 | N/A | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | Band 53 | -- 2495 | | | | | not | | or NR | MHz | | | | | app | | Band | | | | | | licable | | n53 | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | epeater | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | n41, | | | | | | | | n53 or | | | | | | | | n90 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 1920 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band 65 | 2010 | | | | | | | or NR | MHz | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | n65 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 1710 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band 66 | 1780 | | | | | | | or NR | MHz | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | n66 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 698 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band 68 | 728 MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 1695 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band 70 | 1710 | | | | | | | or NR | MHz | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | n70 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 663 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band 71 | 698 MHz | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | n71 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 451 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band 72 | 456 MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 1427 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | Band 74 | 1470 | | | | | not | | or NR | MHz | | | | | app | | Band | | | | | | licable | | n74 | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | epeater | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | n50, | | | | | | | | n51, | | | | | | | | n91, | | | | | | | | n92, | | | | | | | | n93 or | | | | | | | | n94 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 3.3 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | n77 | 4.2 GHz | | | | | not | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | licable | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | epeater | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | n48, | | | | | | | | n77 or | | | | | | | | n78 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 3.3 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | This is | | n78 | 3.8 GHz | | | | | not | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | licable | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | epeater | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | n48, | | | | | | | | n77 or | | | | | | | | n78 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 4.4 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | n79 | 5.0 GHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 1710 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | n80 | 1785 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 880 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | n81 | 915 MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 832 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | n82 | 862 MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 703 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | n83 | 748 MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 1920 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | n84 | 1980 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 698 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band 85 | 716 MHz | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band 85 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 1710 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | n86 | 1780 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 824 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | n89 | 849 MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 832 -- | N/A | N/A | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | n91 | 862 MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 832 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | n92 | 862 MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 880 -- | N/A | N/A | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | n93 | 915 MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 880 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | n94 | 915 MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 2010 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | n95 | 2025 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 5925 -- | N/A | -90 dBm | -87 dBm | 100 kHz | | | n96 | 7125 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 2300 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | n97 | 2400MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 1880 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | n98 | 1920MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 1626.5 | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | n99 | -- | | | | | | | | 1660.5 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 5925 -- | N/A | -90 dBm | -87 dBm | 100 kHz | | | n102 | 6425 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 787 -- | -96 dBm | -91 dBm | -88 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band | 788 MHz | | | | | | | 103 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 6425 -- | -95 dBm | -90 dBm | -87 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | n104 | 7125 | | | | | requ | | | MHz | | | | | irement | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | epeater | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | n104. | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
NOTE 1: As defined in the scope for spurious emissions in this clause, the co-
location requirements in table 6.5.4.5.3-1 do not apply for the frequency
range extending Δf~OBUE~ immediately outside the transmit frequency range of a
_repeater type 1-C_. The current state-of-the-art technology does not allow a
single generic solution for co-location with other system on adjacent
frequencies for 30dB antenna to antenna minimum coupling loss. However, there
are certain site-engineering solutions that can be used. These techniques are
addressed in TR 25.942 [15].
NOTE 2: Table 6.5.4.5.3-1 assumes that two _operating bands_ , where the
corresponding transmit and receive frequency ranges would be overlapping, are
not deployed in the same geographical area. For such a case of operation with
overlapping frequency arrangements in the same geographical area, special co-
location requirements may apply that are not covered by the 3GPP
specifications.
### 6.5.5 Receiver spurious emissions
#### 6.5.5.1 Definition and applicability
The receiver spurious emissions power is the power of emissions generated or
amplified in a receiver unit that appear at the _antenna connector_. The
requirements only apply to _repeater type 1-C_ for TDD operation.
For each a _ntenna connectors_ on BS-side and UE-side supporting both RX and
TX in TDD, the requirements apply during the _transmitter OFF state_. For
_antenna connectors_ both BS-side and UE-side in FDD, the RX spurious
emissions requirements are superseded by the TX spurious emissions
requirements, as specified in clause 6.5.4.5.
For _multi-band_ _connectors_ that both transmit and receive in _operating
band_ supporting TDD, RX spurious emissions requirements are applicable during
the _TX OFF state_ , and are subject to exclusion zones in each supported
_operating band_.
For Band n41 and n90 operation in Japan, the sum of receiver spurious
emissions requirements over all _antenna connectors_ for _repeater type 1-C_
shall not exceed _minimum requirements_ defined in clause 6.5.5.5.
#### 6.5.5.2 Minimum requirement
The minimum requirements are in TS 38.106 [2], clause 6.5.5.2.
#### 6.5.5.3 Test purpose
The test purpose is to verify the ability of the repeater to limit the
interference caused by receiver spurious emissions to other systems.
#### 6.5.5.4 Method of test
##### 6.5.5.4.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: Normal; see annex B.2.
RF channels to be tested for single carrier: M; see clause 4.9.1.
##### 6.5.5.4.2 Procedure
The minimum requirement is applied to all connectors under test,
1) Connect the connector under test to measurement equipment as shown in annex
D.9.
2) Ensure the transmitter is OFF.
3) Set the measurement equipment parameters as specified in table 6.5.5.5-1.
4) Measure the spurious emissions over each frequency range described in table
6.5.5.5-1.
In addition, for a _multi-band_ _connector_ , the following steps shall apply:
5) For _multi-band_ _connector_ and single band tests, repeat the steps above
per involved band where single band test configurations and test models shall
apply with no carrier activated in the other band.
#### 6.5.5.5 Test requirements
The receiver spurious emissions requirements for _repeater type 1-C_ are that
for each _antenna connector,_ the power of emissions shall not exceed the
value specified in table 6.5.5.5-1.
**Table 6.5.5.5-1:_Repeater type 1-C_ receiver spurious emissions limits**
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Spurious | _Basic limits_ | _Measurement | Note | | frequency | | bandwidth_ | | | range | | | | +================+================+================+================+ | 30 MHz -- 1 | -57 dBm | 100 kHz | Note 1 | | GHz | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1 GHz -- 12.75 | -47 dBm | 1 MHz | Note 1, Note 2 | | GHz | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 12.75 GHz -- | -47 dBm | 1 MHz | Note 1, Note | | 5^th^ harmonic | | | 2, Note 3 | | of the upper | | | | | frequency edge | | | | | of the UL | | | | | _operating | | | | | band_ in GHz | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 12.75 GHz ‑ 26 | -47 dBm | 1 MHz | Note 1, Note 2 | | GHz | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | _Measurement | | | | | bandwidth_ s as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329 [4], | | | | | s4.1. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Upper | | | | | frequency as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329 [4], | | | | | s2.5 table 1. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: This | | | | | spurious | | | | | frequency | | | | | range applies | | | | | only for | | | | | _operating | | | | | bands_ for | | | | | which the | | | | | 5^th^ harmonic | | | | | of the upper | | | | | frequency edge | | | | | of the UL | | | | | _operating | | | | | band_ is | | | | | reaching | | | | | beyond 12.75 | | | | | GHz. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The | | | | | frequency | | | | | range from | | | | | Δf~OBUE~ below | | | | | the lowest | | | | | frequency of | | | | | the repeater | | | | | transmitter | | | | | _operating | | | | | band_ to | | | | | Δf~OBUE~ above | | | | | the highest | | | | | frequency of | | | | | the repeater | | | | | transmitter | | | | | _operating | | | | | band_ may be | | | | | excluded from | | | | | the | | | | | requirement. | | | | | Δf~OBUE~ is | | | | | defined in | | | | | clause 6.5.1. | | | | | For | | | | | _multi-band_ | | | | | _connectors_ , | | | | | the exclusion | | | | | applies for | | | | | all supported | | | | | _operating | | | | | bands_. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 6.6 Repeater Error Vector Magnitude
### 6.6.1 Downlink repeater error vector magnitude
#### 6.6.1.1 General
The Repeater Error Vector Magnitude (EVM) is a measure of the difference
between the symbols provided at the input of repeater and the measured signal
symbols at the output of the repeater after the equalization by the
measurement equipment. This difference is called the error vector. Details
about how the repeater EVM is determined are the same as specified in TS
38.104 Annex B for FR1. The repeater EVM result is defined as the square root
of the ratio of the mean error vector power to the mean reference power
expressed in percent. The accuracy of the input symbols is counted in the
measurement uncertainty.
The repeater EVM requirement is applicable for a repeater operating at an
input power in the range from what is required to reach the maximum output
power to the minimum power level in table 6.6.1.1-1.
Table 6.6.1.1-1: Minimum input power for repeater EVM
Repeater DL class Minimum input power spectral density (dBm/MHz)
* * *
                                                          QPSK, 16 QAM, 64QAM                              256QAM^1^
WA -82 -75 MR -77 -70 LA -74 -67 Note 1: support of 256QAM is based on the
declaration
#### 6.6.1.2 Minimum requirements
The minimum requirement is in TS 38.106 [2] clause 6.6.1.2.
#### 6.6.1.3 Test purpose
To verify that the downlink repeater EVM deterioration is within the limit
specified by the minimum requirements after the signal passed through the
Repeater.
#### 6.6.1.4 Method of test
##### 6.6.1.4.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: Normal; see annex B.2.
RF channels to be tested for single carrier: B, M and T; see clause 4.9.1.
RF bandwidth positions to be tested for multi-carrier and/or CA:
\- B~RFBW~, M~RFBW~ and T~RFBW~ in single-band operation, see clause 4.9.1;
\- B~RFBW~_T\'~RFBW~ and B\'~RFBW~_T~RFBW~ in multi-band operation, see clause
4.9.1.
##### 6.6.1.4.2 Procedure
The minimum requirement is applied to all _antenna connectors_ , they may be
tested one at a time or multiple _antenna connectors_ may be tested in
parallel as shown in annex D.1.1 for _repeater type 1-C_. Whichever method is
used the procedure is repeated until all _antenna connectors_ necessary to
demonstrate conformance have been tested.
1) For an _antenna connector_ declared to be capable of single carrier
operation only (D.16), set the _antenna connector_ under test to transmit a
signal according to the applicable test configuration in clause 4.8 using the
corresponding test models:
\- RDL-FR1-TM3.1a if 256QAM is supported by repeater without power back off,
or
\- RDL-FR1-TM3.1a at manufacturer\'s declared rated output power if 256QAM is
supported by repeater with power back off, and RDL-FR1-TM3.1 at maximum power,
or
\- RDL-FR1-TM3.1 if highest modulation order supported by repeater is 64QAM,
or
\- RDL-FR1-TM3.2 if highest modulation order supported by repeater is 16QAM,
or
\- RDL-FR1-TM3.3 if highest modulation order supported by repeater is QPSK.
For an _antenna connector_ declared to be capable of multi-carrier operation
(D.15-D.16), set the _antenna connector_ under test to transmit according to
the applicable test configuration and corresponding power setting specified in
clauses 4.7 and 4.8 using the corresponding test models on all carriers
configured:
\- RDL-FR1-TM3.1a if 256QAM is supported by repeater without power back off,
or
\- RDL-FR1-TM3.1a at manufacturer\'s declared rated output power if 256QAM is
supported by repeater with power back off, and RDL-FR1-TM3.1 at maximum power,
or
\- RDL-FR1-TM3.1 if highest modulation order supported by repeater is 64QAM,
or
\- RDL-FR1-TM3.2 if highest modulation order supported by repeater is 16QAM,
or
\- RDL-FR1-TM3.3 if highest modulation order supported by repeater is QPSK.
For RDL-FR1-TM3.1a, power back-off shall be applied if it is declared.
2) Measure the repeater EVM and frequency error as defined in annex H.
3) Repeat steps 1 and 2 for RDL-FR1-TM2 if 256QAM is not supported by repeater
or for RDL-FR1-TM2a if 256QAM is supported by repeater . For RDL-FR1-TM2 and
RDL-FR1-TM2a, the OFDM symbol TX power (OSTP) shall be at the lower limit of
the dynamic range according to the test procedure in clause 6.3.3.4 and test
requirements in clause 6.3.3.5.
In addition, for _multi-band connector(s)_ , the following steps shall apply:
4) For _multi-band connectors_ and single band tests, repeat the steps above
per involved band where single band test configurations and test models shall
apply with no carrier activated in the other band.
#### 6.6.1.5 Test requirement
The downlink of the Repeater EVM levels for different modulation schemes shall
not exceed values in table 6.6.1.5-1.
Table 6.6.1.5-1: Repeater EVM test requirements
**Parameter** **Required test repeater EVM**
* * *
QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM [9.25 %] 256QAM [4.75 %] ^1^ Note 1: support of 256QAM is
based on the declaration.
### 6.6.2 Uplink repeater error vector magnitude
#### 6.6.2.1 General
The Repeater Error Vector Magnitude is a measure of the difference between the
reference waveform provided at the input of the repeater and the measured
waveform at the output of the repeater. This difference is called the error
vector. Details about how the repeater EVM is determined are the same as
specified in TS 38.101-1[9] Annex F. Before calculating the repeater EVM the
measured waveform is corrected by the sample timing offset and RF frequency
offset. Then the carrier leakage shall be removed from the measured waveform
before calculating the repeater EVM.
The measured waveform is further equalised using the channel estimates
subjected to the repeater EVM equaliser spectrum flatness requirement
specified in TS 38.101-1[9] clause 6.4.2.4. For DFT-s-OFDM waveforms, the
repeater EVM result is defined after the front-end FFT and IDFT as the square
root of the ratio of the mean error vector power to the mean reference power
expressed as a %. For CP-OFDM waveforms, the repeater EVM result is defined
after the front-end FFT as the square root of the ratio of the mean error
vector power to the mean reference power expressed as a %. The accuracy of the
input waveform is counted in the measurement uncertainty.
The basic repeater EVM measurement interval in one slot in the time domain.
The repeater EVM measurement interval is reduced by any symbols that contains
an allowable power transient in the measurement interval, as defined in TS
38.101-1 [9] clause 6.3.3 for EVM for UE.
The repeater EVM requirement is applicable for a repeater operating at an
input power in the range from what is required to reach the maximum output
power to the minimum power level in table 6.6.2.1-1.
Table 6.6.2.1-1: Minimum input power for repeater EVM
Repeater UL class Minimum input power spectral density (dBm/MHz)
* * *
                                                          QPSK, 16 QAM, 64QAM                              256QAM^1^
WA -82 -75 LA -74 -67 Note 1: support of 256QAM is based on the declaration
#### 6.6.2.2 Minimum requirement
The minimum requirement is in TS 38.106 [9] clause 6.6.2.2.
#### 6.6.2.3 Test purpose
To verify that the uplink repeater EVM deterioration is within the limit
specified by the minimum requirements after the signal passed through the
Repeater.
#### 6.6.2.3 Method of test
##### 6.6.2.3.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: Normal; see annex B.2.
RF channels to be tested for single carrier: B, M and T; see clause 4.9.1.
RF bandwidth positions to be tested for multi-carrier and/or CA:
\- B~RFBW~, M~RFBW~ and T~RFBW~ in single-band operation, see clause 4.9.1;
\- B~RFBW~_T\'~RFBW~ and B\'~RFBW~_T~RFBW~ in multi-band operation, see clause
4.9.1.
##### 6.6.2.3.2 Procedure
For repeater, the minimum requirement is applied to all _antenna_ _connectors_
, they may be tested one at a time or multiple _antenna connectors_ may be
tested in parallel as shown in annex D.1.1 for _repeater type 1-C_. Whichever
method is used the procedure is repeated until all _antenna connectors_
necessary to demonstrate conformance have been tested.
1) For an _antenna connector_ declared to be capable of single carrier
operation only (D.16), set the _antenna connector_ under test to transmit a
signal according to the applicable test configuration in clause 4.8 using the
corresponding test models:
\- RUL-TM3.1a if 256QAM is supported by repeater without power back off, or
\- RUL-FR1-TM3.1a at manufacturer\'s declared rated output power if 256QAM is
supported by repeater with power back off, and RUL-FR1-TM3.1 at maximum power,
or
\- RUL-FR1-TM3.1 with highest modulation order supported by repeater.
For an _antenna connector_ declared to be capable of multi-carrier operation
(D.15-D.16), set the _antenna connector_ under test to transmit according to
the applicable test configuration and corresponding power setting specified in
clauses 4.7 and 4.8 using the corresponding test models on all carriers
configured:
\- RUL-FR1-TM3.1a if 256QAM is supported by repeater without power back off,
or
\- RUL-FR1-TM3.1a at manufacturer\'s declared rated output power if 256QAM is
supported by repeater with power back off, and RUL-FR1-TM3.1 at maximum power,
or
\- RUL-FR1-TM3.1 with highest modulation order supported by repeater.
For RUL-FR1-TM3.1a, power back-off shall be applied if it is declared.
2) Measure the repeater EVM and frequency error as defined in annex H.
3) Repeat steps 1 and 2 for RUL-FR1-TM2 if 256QAM is not supported by repeater
or for RUL-FR1-TM2a if 256QAM is supported by repeater. For RUL-FR1-TM2 and
RUL-FR1-TM2a the OFDM symbol TX power (OSTP) shall be at the lower limit of
the dynamic range according to the test procedure in clause 6.3.3.4 and test
requirements in clause 6.3.3.5.
In addition, for _multi-band connector(s)_ , the following steps shall apply:
4) For _multi-band connectors_ and single band tests, repeat the steps above
per involved band where single band test configurations and test models shall
apply with no carrier activated in the other band.
#### 6.6.2.4 Test requirement
The uplink of the Repeater EVM levels for different modulation schemes shall
not exceed values in table 6.6.2.4-1.
Table 6.6.2.4-1: Repeater EVM test requirements
**Parameter** **Required test repeater EVM**
* * *
QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM [9.25 %] 256QAM [4.75 %] ^1^ Note 1: support of 256QAM is
based on the declaration.
## 6.7 Input intermodulation
### 6.7.1 Definition and applicability
#### 6.7.1.1 General
The input intermodulation is a measure of the capability of the Repeater to
inhibit the generation of interference in the passband, in the presence of
interfering signals on frequencies other than the passband.
Third and higher order mixing of the two interfering RF signals can produce an
interfering signal in the band of the desired channel. Intermodulation
response rejection is a measure of the capability of the Repeater to maintain
the wanted frequency free of internally created interference.
The measurements shall apply to both uplink and downlink paths of the
Repeater, during the _transmitter ON state_ at maximum gain.
#### 6.7.1.2 Minimum requirements
The minimum requirement is in TS 38.106 [2] clauses 6.7.1.2, 6.7.2.2 and
6.7.3.2.
#### 6.7.1.3 Test purpose
The purpose of this test is to verify that the Repeater meets the
intermodulation characteristics requirements as specified by the minimum
requirements.
#### 6.7.1.4 Method of test
##### 6.7.1.4.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: normal; see Annex A.2
A measurement system set-up is shown in Annex D.
1) Set the Repeater to maximum gain.
2) Connect two signal generators with a combining circuit or one signal
generator with the ability to generate several CW carriers to the input.
3) Connect a spectrum analyser to the output of the Repeater.
##### 6.7.1.4.2 Procedure
1) Adjust the frequency of the input signals, either below or above the
passband, so that one carrier, f~1~, is 1 MHz outside the channel edge
frequency of the first or last channel in the passband, and the lowest order
intermodulation product from the two carriers is positioned in the centre of
the passband.
2) Measure the increase in output power in the passband when the interferer is
applied.
3) Repeat the measurement for the opposite path of the Repeater.
#### 6.7.1.5 Test requirements
##### 6.7.1.5.1 General requirement
The intermodulation performance should be met when the following signals are
applied to the NR Repeater:
Table 6.7.1.5.1-1: Input intermodulation requirement
f~1~ offset Interfering Signal Levels Type of signals Measurement bandwidth
* * *
1,0 MHz -40 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz
f~1~ offset is the offset from the channel edge frequency of the first or last
channel in the passband of the closer carrier.
For the parameters specified in Table 6.7.1.5.1-1, the power in the pass band
shall not increase by more than [10+TT] dB at the output of the Repeater as
measured in the centre of the pass band, compared to the level obtained
without interfering signals applied.
##### 6.7.1.5.2 Co-location with BS/Repeater in other systems
This additional input intermodulation requirement may be applied for the
protection of NR repeater receivers when GSM, CDMA, UTRA, E-UTRA, NR BS or
repeater operating in a different frequency band are co-located with a NR
repeater.
The following requirement applies for interfering signals depending on the
repeaters _passband_.
This requirement applies to the uplink and downlink of the repeater. If the BS
side is declared to meet co-location requirements, then it should meet input
intermodulation co-location requirements for the downlink. If the UE side is
declared to meet co-location requirements, then it should meet input
intermodulation co-location requirements for the uplink.
Table 6.7.1.5.2-1: input intermodulation requirement for NR repeater DL when
co-located with BS/repeater in other frequency bands.
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Frequency | ** | ** | ** |** Type of | | range of | Interfering | Interfering | Interfering | interfering | | interfering | signal mean | signal mean | signal mean | signals**| | signal** | power for | power for | power for | | | | repeater | repeater | repeater | | | | with WA UE | with MR UE | with LA UE | | | | side | side(dBm)**| side(dBm)** | | | | (dBm)__| | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Frequency | +16 | +8 | x (Note 1) | 2 CW | | range of | | | | carriers | | co-located | | | | | | BS's | | | | | | downlink | | | | | |_ operating | | | | | | band or | | | | | | located | | | | | | repeater's | | | | | | passband_ | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: x = | | | | | | -7 dBm for | | | | | | NR repeater | | | | | | co-located | | | | | | with Pico | | | | | | GSM850 or | | | | | | Pico | | | | | | CDMA850 | | | | | | | | | | | | x = -4 dBm | | | | | | for NR | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | co-located | | | | | | with Pico | | | | | | DCS1800 or | | | | | | Pico | | | | | | PCS1900 | | | | | | | | | | | | x = -6 dBm | | | | | | for NR | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | co-located | | | | | | with UTRA | | | | | | bands or | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | bands or NR | | | | | | bands | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply when | | | | | | the | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal | | | | | | falls | | | | | | within the | | | | | | _passband_. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: For | | | | | | uns | | | | | | ynchronized | | | | | | base | | | | | | stations or | | | | | | repeaters | | | | | | (except in | | | | | | band n46 | | | | | | and n96), | | | | | | special | | | | | | co-location | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | may apply | | | | | | that are | | | | | | not covered | | | | | | by the 3GPP | | | | | | spec | | | | | | ifications. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 6.7.1.5.2-2: input intermodulation requirement for NR repeater UL when
co-located with BS/repeater in other frequency bands.
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Frequency |** Interfering | **Interfering |** Type of | | range of | signal mean | signal mean | interfering | | interfering | power for | power for | signals**| | signal** | repeater with | repeater with | | | | WA BS | LA BS | | | | side(dBm)**| side(dBm)** | | +================+================+================+================+ | Frequency | +16 | P~rated,p,AC~ | 2 CW carriers | | range of | | -30 | | | co-located | | | | | BS's downlink | | | | | _operating | | | | | band or | | | | | located | | | | | repeater's | | | | | passband_ | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | requirement | | | | | does not apply | | | | | when the | | | | | interfering | | | | | signal falls | | | | | within the | | | | | _passband_. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For | | | | | unsynchronized | | | | | base stations | | | | | or repeaters | | | | | (except in | | | | | band n46 and | | | | | n96), special | | | | | co-location | | | | | requirements | | | | | may apply that | | | | | are not | | | | | covered by the | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | s | | | | | pecifications. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
NOTE 1: The co-location requirements in Table 6.7.1.5.2-1 and 6.7.1.5.2-2 do
not apply when the Repeaters passband frequency range is adjacent to the
frequency range of the co-location requirement in the Table 6.7.1.5.2-1 or
Table 6.7.1.5.2-2. The current state-of-the-art technology does not allow a
single generic solution for co-location with other system on adjacent
frequencies for 30dB Repeater-BS minimum coupling loss. However, there are
certain site-engineering solutions that can be used. These techniques are
addressed in TR 25.942 [15].
NOTE 2: The Table 6.7.1.5.2-1 and Table 6.7.1.5.2-2 assumes that two operating
bands, where the corresponding BS or Repeater transmit and receive frequency
ranges would be overlapping, are not deployed in the same geographical area.
For such a case of operation with overlapping frequency arrangements in the
same geographical area, special co-location requirements may apply that are
not covered by the 3GPP specifications.
For the parameters specified in table Table 6.7.1.5.2-1 and 6.7.1.5.2-2, the
power in the passband shall not increase with more than [10 + TT] dB B at the
output of the repeater as measured in the centre of the passband, compared to
the level obtained without interfering signals applied.
##### 6.7.1.5.3 Co-existence with other systems
This input intermodulation existence requirement may be applied for the
protection of NR repeater receivers when GSM, CDMA, UTRA, E-UTRA, NR BS or
repeater operating in another frequency band co-exist with a NR repeater.
The intermodulation performance should be met when the signals in Table
6.7.1.5.3-1 are applied to the Repeater:
Table 6.7.1.5.3-1: input intermodulation requirement for NR repeater when co-
exist with BS/repeater in other non-overlapping frequency bands
Frequency range of interfering signal Interfering signal mean power (dBm) Type
of interfering signals Measurement bandwidth
* * *
Frequency range of co-existence system _operating band_ -15 2 CW carriers 1MHz
NOTE 1: All the interfering signals should be limited into the frequency
ranges that are either X MHz higher than F~UL,high~ or X MHz lower than
F~UL,low~, where X equals to 20MHz when F~UL,high~ - F~UL,low~ is not larger
than 200MHz, otherwise X equals to 60MHz
NOTE 1: The co-existence requirements in Table 6.7.1.5.3-1 do not apply when
the repeaters pass band frequency range is adjacent to the frequency range of
the co-existence requirement in the Table 6.7.1.5.3-1. The current state-of-
the-art technology does not allow a single generic solution for co-existence.
NOTE 2: The Table 6.7.1.5.3-1 assumes that two operating bands, where the
frequency ranges would be overlapping, are not deployed in the same
geographical area. For such a case of operation with overlapping frequency
arrangements in the same geographical area, special co-existence requirements
may apply that are not covered by the 3GPP specifications.
For the parameters specified in Table 6.7.1.5.3-1, the power in the pass band
shall not increase with more than [10 + TT] dB at the output of the repeater
as measured in the centre of the pass band, compared to the level obtained
without interfering signals applied.
## 6.8 Output intermodulation
### 6.8.1 Definition and applicability
#### 6.8.1.1 General
The output intermodulation requirement is a measure of the capability of the
repeater to inhibit the generation of signals in its non-linear elements
caused by presence of the wanted signal and an interfering signal reaching the
repeater via the output port. The requirement shall apply during the
_transmitter ON period_ and the _transmitter transient period_.
The requirement shall apply to the uplink and downlink of the Repeater.
For _repeater type 1-C_ , the output intermodulation level is the power of the
intermodulation products when an interfering signal is injected into the
_antenna connector_.
#### 6.8.1.2 Minimum requirements
The minimum requirement is in TS 38.106 [2] clause 6.8.2.
#### 6.8.1.3 Test purpose
The test purpose is to verify the ability of the repeater to restrict the
generation of intermodulation products in the presence of a subject signal on
the repeater input and output ports, and an interfering signal applied at the
repeater output port.
#### 6.8.1.4 Method of test
##### 6.8.1.4.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: normal; see Annex A.2
A measurement system set-up is shown in Annex D.
1) Connect a signal generator to the input port of the Repeater (wanted
signal). Connect a signal generator to the output port (interfering signal)
and make sure the signal generator power is directed to the repeater output
port.
> 2) Detection mode: True RMS.
##### 6.8.1.4.2 Procedure
1) Set the Repeater to maximum gain.
2) Set the signal generator at the repeater input port (wanted signal) to
generate a signal in accordance to test model R-FR1-TM1.1, with a bandwidth as
defined in Table 6.8.1.5.1-1, at the level which produce the manufacturer
specified maximum output power at maximum gain.
3) Set the signal generator at the repeater output port (interference signal)
to generate a signal in accordance to test model R-FR1-TM1.1, with a
bandwidth, level and frequency offset as defined in Table 6.8.1.5.1-1.
4) Measure the emission at the specified frequencies with specified
measurement bandwidth as described in the test requirements and note that the
measured value does not exceed the specified value. Measurements in the band
of the interfering signal shall be excluded. The measurements can be limited
to the power of all third and fifth order intermodulation products.
5) Repeat the test from step 3 on until all interfering signal centre
frequency offsets in Table 6.8.1.5.1-1 has been tested, but exclude
interfering signal frequencies that are outside of the allocated frequency
band for NR downlink.
6) For repeater supporting Band n41 and n90 operation in Japan, repeat the
test using wanted and interfering signal parameters as defined in Table
6.8.1.5.2-1.
NOTE: As a general rule the resolution bandwidth of the measuring equipment
should be equal to the measurement bandwidth. However, to improve measurement
accuracy, sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution bandwidth can be smaller
than the measurement bandwidth. When the resolution bandwidth is smaller than
the measurement bandwidth, the result should be integrated over the
measurement bandwidth in order to obtain the equivalent noise bandwidth of the
measurement bandwidth.
#### 6.8.1.5 Test requirements
##### 6.8.1.5.1 General requirements
Test requirement shall be met using interfering and wanted signal parameters
according to Table 6.8.1.5.1-1
Table 6.8.1.5.1-1: Interfering and wanted signals for the output
intermodulation requirement
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +==================================+==================================+ | Wanted signal type | NR signal, filling all supported | | | _passbands_ in the operating | | | band and with sufficient | | | carriers to fill each | | | _passband_. Minimum defined SCS | | | for the operating band | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal type | NR signal, with the minimum SCS | | | and channel bandwidth defined in | | | the operating band in [2] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal level | _Rated total output power_ | | | (P~rated,t,AC~) in the | | | _passband_ \-- 30 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal centre | , for n=1, 2 and 3 | | frequency offset from the | | | lower/upper edge of the wanted | | | signal or edge of _sub-block_ | | | inside a _sub-block gap_ | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: Interfering signal | | | positions that are partially or | | | completely outside of any | | | downlink operating band of the | | | repeater are excluded from the | | | requirement, unless the | | | interfering signal positions | | | fall within the frequency range | | | of adjacent downlink operating | | | bands in the same geographical | | | area. In case that none of the | | | interfering signal positions | | | fall completely within the | | | frequency range of the downlink | | | operating band, TS 38.115-1 | | | [7] provides further guidance | | | regarding appropriate test | | | requirements. | | | | | | NOTE 2: In Japan, NOTE 1 is not | | | applied in Band n77, n78, n79. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
In all measurements, the requirements according to either clause [6.5.3]
Operating band unwanted emission (Category A) and the downlink requirements of
[6.5.4] Spurious emission (Category A) or [6.5.3] Operating band unwanted
emissions (Category B) and the downlink requirements of [6.5.4] Spurious
emission (Category B) shall be fulfilled.
##### 6.8.1.5.2 Additional requirements
For repeater supporting Band n41 and n90 operation in Japan, the sum of output
intermodulation level over all _antenna connectors_ shall not exceed the
unwanted emission limits in clauses 6.5 in the presence of an NR interfering
signal according to table 6.8.1.5.2-1.
Table 6.8.1.5.2-1: Interfering and wanted signals for the additional output
intermodulation requirement for Band n41 and n90
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Parameter** | **Value** | +==================================+==================================+ | Wanted signal | NR signal (NOTE) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal type | NR signal of 10 MHz _passband | | | bandwidth_ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal level | _Rated total output power | | | (P~rated,t,AC~) in the passband | | | -- 30 dB_ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal centre | ± 5 MHz | | frequency offset from the | | | lower/upper _passband_ centre | ± 15 MHz | | frequency of the wanted signal | | | | ± 25 MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE: This requirement applies | | | for _passband_ allocated within | | | 2545-2645 MHz. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## 6.9 Adjacent Channel Rejection Ratio (ACRR)
### 6.9.1 Definitions and applicability
Adjacent Channel Rejection Ratio (ACRR) is the ratio of the average gain over
a carrier of the repeater in the _passband_ to the average gain of the
repeater over an adjacent channel outside the repeater _passband_. The carrier
in the _passband_ and in the adjacent channel shall be of the same type
(reference carrier) with bandwidths as defined by _nominal channel bandwidth_.
In case of Local Area repeater above 2496 MHz, the channel within the
_passband_ and the adjacent channel are assumed to have a bandwidth of 10 MHz
The requirement is differentiated between uplink and downlink.
The requirement shall apply during the _transmitter ON period_.
### 6.9.2 Co-existence with UTRA, E-UTRA and NR
This requirement shall be applied for the protection of UTRA, E-UTRA and NR
signals in geographic areas in which NR Repeater, NR BS, E-UTRA BS and UTRA BS
are deployed so that they serve adjacent channels. The reference carrier is a
NR carrier.
#### 6.9.2.1 Minimum requirements
The minimum requirement is in TS 38.106 [2] sub-clause 6.9.2.
#### 6.9.2.2 Test purpose
To verify that the Repeater ACRR requirement is met as specified in sub-clause
6.9.2.1.
#### 6.9.2.3 Method of test
##### 6.9.2.3.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: normal; see Annex A2. [RF channels to be updated]
RF channels to be tested for single carrier: B, T; see clause 4.9.1.
_Repeater RF Bandwidth_ positions to be tested for multi-carrier:
\- B~RFBW~ and T~RFBW~ in single-band operation, see clause 4.9.1;
\- B~RFBW~_T\'~RFBW~ and B\'~RFBW~_T~RFBW~ in multi-band operation, see clause
4.9.1.
##### 6.9.2.3.2 Procedure
1) Set the signal generator to transmit a signal modulated with test model XX
for downlink and test model XX for uplink as defined in section 4.9 at the
first or last channel with channel offset from frequency range of passband
defined in section 6.9.2.3.3 within the pass band.
2) Adjust the input power to the Repeater to create the maximum nominal
Repeater output power at maximum gain
3) Measure the RRC filtered mean power at the RF output port over a certain
slot.
4) Set the signal generator to transmit the same signal and the same input
power at one of the channel offsets outside the repeater pass band according
to Tables in section 6.9.2.3.3.
5) Measure the filtered mean power at the RF output port over a certain slot.
6) Calculate the ratio of the measured power in the pass band to the measured
power at the channel offset.
7) Repeat step 4) to 6) until all channel offsets in Tables in section
6.9.2.3.3 are measured.
##### 6.9.2.3.3 Test Requirements
For a repeater operating at _passband_ below 2496 MHz, the ACRR requirements
in table 6.9.2.3.3-1 shall apply in downlink. In normal conditions the ACRR
for downlink shall be higher than the value specified in the Table
6.9.2.3.3-1.
Table 6.9.2.3.3-1: Repeater Downlink ACRR below 2496MHz
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | C | Repeater | Channel | Filter on | ACRR limit | | o-existence | Class | offset from | the | | | with other | | frequency | adjacent | | | systems | | edge of | channel | | | | | _passband_ | frequency | | | | | (MHz) | and | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | filter | | | | | | bandwidth | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+============+ | UTRA, | Wide Area | BW | Square | 44.3dB | | E-UTRA, NR | repeater | ~Nominal~/2 | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | Medium | BW | Square | 44.3dB | | | Range | ~Nominal~/2 | ( | | | | repeater | | BW~Config~) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | Local Area | BW | Square | 32.3dB | | | repeater | ~Nominal~/2 | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | (Note 1) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | applicable | | | | | | if the | | | | | | _passband_ | | | | | | occupies | | | | | | the entire | | | | | | _operating | | | | | | band_. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | BW~No | | | | | | minal~ is t | | | | | | he  _nominal | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | idth._ BW~C | | | | | | onfig~__ is | | | | | | the  _t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | assumed for | | | | | | the | | | | | | adjacent | | | | | | channel_. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | With SCS | | | | | | that | | | | | | provides | | | | | | largest | | | | | | _t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | con | | | | | | figuration_ | | | | | | (B | | | | | | W~Config~). | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
For a repeater operating at passband above 2496 MHz, the ACRR requirements in
table 6.9.2.3.3-1a shall apply in downlink. In normal conditions the ACRR for
downlink shall be higher than the value specified in the Table 6.9.2.3.3-1a.
Table 6.9.2.3.3-1a: Repeater Downlink ACRR above 2496 MHz
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | C | Repeater | Channel | Filter on | ACRR limit | | o-existence | Class | offset from | the | | | with other | | frequency | adjacent | | | systems | | edge of | channel | | | | | _passband_ | frequency | | | | | (MHz) | and | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | filter | | | | | | bandwidth | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+============+ | UTRA, | Wide Area | BW | Square | 32.3dB | | E-UTRA, NR | repeater | ~Nominal~/2 | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | Medium | BW | Square | 32.3dB | | | Range | ~Nominal~/2 | ( | | | | repeater | | BW~Config~) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | Local Area | BW | Square | 32.3dB | | | repeater | ~Nominal~/2 | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | (Note 1) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | applicable | | | | | | if the | | | | | | _passband_ | | | | | | occupies | | | | | | the entire | | | | | | _operating | | | | | | band_. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | BW~No | | | | | | minal~ is t | | | | | | he  _nominal | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | idth._ BW~C | | | | | | onfig~__ is | | | | | | the  _t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | assumed for | | | | | | the | | | | | | adjacent | | | | | | channel_. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | With SCS | | | | | | that | | | | | | provides | | | | | | largest | | | | | | _t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | con | | | | | | figuration_ | | | | | | (B | | | | | | W~Config~). | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
For a repeater operating at _passband_ below 2496 MHz, the ACRR requirements
in table 6.9.2.3.3-2 shall apply in uplink. In normal conditions the ACRR for
uplink shall be higher than the value specified in the Table 6.9.2.3.3-2.
Table 6.9.2.3.3-2: Repeater Uplink ACRR below 2496 MHz
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | C | Repeater | Channel | Filter on | ACRR limit | | o-existence | Class | offset from | the | | | with other | | frequency | adjacent | | | systems | | edge of | channel | | | | | _passband_ | frequency | | | | | (MHz) | and | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | filter | | | | | | bandwidth | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+============+ | UTRA, | Wide Area | BW | Square | 32.3dB | | E-UTRA, NR | repeater | ~Nominal~/2 | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | Local Area | BW | Square | 32.3dB | | | repeater | ~Nominal~/2 | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | (Note 1) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | applicable | | | | | | if the | | | | | | _passband_ | | | | | | occupies | | | | | | the entire | | | | | | _operating | | | | | | band_. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | BW~No | | | | | | minal~ is t | | | | | | he  _nominal | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | idth._ BW~C | | | | | | onfig~__ is | | | | | | the  _t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | assumed for | | | | | | the | | | | | | adjacent | | | | | | channel_. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | With SCS | | | | | | that | | | | | | provides | | | | | | largest | | | | | | _t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | con | | | | | | figuration_ | | | | | | (B | | | | | | W~Config~). | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
For a repeater operating at _passband_ above 2496 MHz, the ACRR requirements
in table 6.9.2.3.3-2a shall apply in uplink. In normal conditions the ACRR for
uplink shall be higher than the value specified in the Table 6.9.2.3.3-2a.
Table 6.9.2.3.3-2a: Repeater Uplink ACRR above 2496 MHz
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | C | Repeater | Channel | Filter on | ACRR limit | | o-existence | Class | offset from | the | | | with other | | frequency | adjacent | | | systems | | edge of | channel | | | | | _passband_ | frequency | | | | | (MHz) | and | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | filter | | | | | | bandwidth | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | UTRA, | Wide Area | BW | Square | 32.3dB | | E-UTRA, NR | repeater | ~Nominal~/2 | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Local Area | 5MHz | 9 MHz | 19.3dB | | | repeater | | | (Note 1, | | | | | | Note 2) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | BW | Square | 32.3dB | | | | ~Nominal~/2 | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | (Note 1) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | applicable | | | | | | if the | | | | | | _passband_ | | | | | | occupies | | | | | | the entire | | | | | | _operating | | | | | | band_. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: In | | | | | | this case, | | | | | | the channel | | | | | | within the | | | | | | _passband_ | | | | | | and the | | | | | | adjacent | | | | | | channel are | | | | | | assumed to | | | | | | have a | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | of 10 MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | BW~No | | | | | | minal~ is t | | | | | | he  _nominal | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | idth._ BW~C | | | | | | onfig~__ is | | | | | | the  _t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | assumed for | | | | | | the | | | | | | adjacent | | | | | | channel_. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | With SCS | | | | | | that | | | | | | provides | | | | | | largest | | | | | | _t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | con | | | | | | figuration_ | | | | | | (B | | | | | | W~Config~). | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 6.10 Transmit ON/OFF power
### 6.10.1 Transmitter OFF power
#### 6.10.1.1 Definition and applicability
Transmit OFF power requirements apply only to TDD operation of the repeater.
The requirement applies to both downlink and uplink of the repeater.
Transmitter OFF power is defined as the mean power measured over 70/N us
filtered with a square filter of bandwidth equal to the _passband bandwidth_
of the repeater (BW~passband~) centred on the assigned channel frequency
during the _transmitter OFF state_. N = SCS/15, where SCS is Sub Carrier
Spacing in kHz of the input signal.
For _multi-band connectors_ and for _single band connectors_ supporting
transmission in multiple _operating bands_ , the requirement is only
applicable during the _transmitter OFF state_ in all supported _operating
bands_.
#### 6.10.1.2 Minimum requirement
The minimum requirement for _repeater type 1-C_ is in TS 38.106 [2], clause
6.10.1.2.
#### 6.10.1.3 Test purpose
The purpose of this test is to verify the transmitter OFF power is within the
limits of the minimum requirements.
#### 6.10.1.4 Method of test
Requirement is tested together with transmitter transient period, as described
in clause 6.10.2.4.
#### 6.10.1.5 Test requirements
The conformance testing of transmit OFF power is included in the conformance
testing of transmitter transient period; therefore, see clause 6.10.2.5 for
test requirements.
### 6.10.2 Transmitter transient period
#### 6.10.2.1 Definition and applicability
_Transmitter transient period_ requirements apply only to TDD operation of the
repeater. The requirement applies to both downlink and uplink of the repeater.
The _transmitter transient state_ is the time period during which the
transmitter is changing from the _transmitter OFF state_ to the _transmitter
ON state_ or vice versa. The _transmitter transient period_ is illustrated in
figure 6.10.2.1-1.
Figure 6.10.2.1-1: Example of relations between transmitter _ON state_ ,
transmitter _OFF state_ and _transmitter transient period_
For _repeater type 1-C_ this requirement shall be applied at the _antenna
connector_ supporting transmission in the _operating ban_ d.
For a repeater that is not declared to be a long delay repeater (D.15), the
beginning and end point of downlink and uplink bursts are referenced to the
slot timing at the input.
For a repeater that is declared to be a long delay repeater (D.15), the
beginning and end point of downlink and uplink bursts are referenced to the
slot timing at the input plus the declared repeater delay.
#### 6.10.2.2 Minimum requirement
The minimum requirement for _repeater type 1-C_ is in TS 38.106 [2], clause
6.10.2.2.
#### 6.10.2.3 Test purpose
The purpose of this test is to verify the transmitter transient periods are
within the limits of the minimum requirements.
#### 6.10.2.4 Method of test
##### 6.10.2.4.1 Initial conditions
Test environment:
\- normal; see annex B.2.
RF channels to be tested for single carrier:
\- M; see clause 4.9.1.
##### 6.10.2.4.2 Procedure
The minimum requirement is applied to all _antenna connectors_ , they may be
tested one at a time or multiple _antenna connectors_ may be tested in
parallel as shown in annex D.1.1. Whichever method is used the procedure is
repeated until all _antenna connectors_ necessary to demonstrate conformance
have been tested.
1) Connect _antenna connector_ for input and output signals to measurement
equipment as shown in annex D.1.1. All _antenna connectors_ not under test
shall be terminated.
As a general rule, the resolution bandwidth of the measuring equipment should
be equal to the measurement bandwidth. However, to improve measurement
accuracy, sensitivity, efficiency and avoiding e.g. carrier leakage, the
resolution bandwidth may be smaller than the measurement bandwidth. When the
resolution bandwidth is smaller than the measurement bandwidth, the result
should be integrated over the measurement bandwidth in order to obtain the
equivalent noise bandwidth of the measurement bandwidth.
2) Set the input signal to the representative connectors under test according
to the applicable test configuration in clause 4.8 using the corresponding
test models in clause 4.9.2 at the input power intended to produce the maximum
rated output power, P~rated,in,\ AC~ + 10dB.
3) Measure the mean power spectral density over 70/N μs filtered with a square
filter of bandwidth equal to the RF bandwidth of the _antenna connector_
centred on the central frequency of the RF bandwidth. 70/N μs average window
centre is set from 35/N μs after end of one transmitter ON period + 10 μs to
35/N μs before start of next transmitter ON period \-- 10 μs. N = SCS/15,
where SCS is Sub Carrier Spacing in kHz.
In addition, for _multi-band connector(s)_ , the following steps shall apply:
4) For _multi-band connectors_ and single band tests, repeat the steps above
per involved band where single band test configurations and test models shall
apply with no carrier activated in the other band.
6.10.2.5 Test requirements
For _repeater type 1-C downlink_ , the requirements for transmitter OFF power
spectral density shall be less than -83 dBm/MHz per _antenna connector_ for
carrier frequency f ≤ 3.0 GHz.
For _repeater type 1-C downlink_ , the requirements for transmitter OFF power
spectral density shall be less than -82.5 dBm/MHz per _antenna connector_ for
carrier frequency 3.0 GHz \20MHz
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Center | _Minimum |_ Measurement | _Integration | | frequency of | requirements_ | filter type | bandwidth _| | measurement | | and filter | | | filter | | bandwidth_ | | +================+================+================+================+ | 50.0 kHz | 47.2 dBc (Note | Square (100 | 100 kHz | | outside from | 1) | kHz) | | | channel edge | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Center of | 47.2 dBc (Note | Square | Nominal | | adjacent | 2) | (nominal | channel BW | | channel | | channel BW) | | | frequency with | | | | | same nominal | | | | | channel BW | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: the | | | | | reference | | | | | spectral | | | | | density shall | | | | | be taken at | | | | | the carrier | | | | | center | | | | | frequency with | | | | | an integration | | | | | bandwidth of | | | | | 100 kHz. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: the | | | | | reference | | | | | spectral | | | | | densigy shall | | | | | be taken at | | | | | the carrier | | | | | center | | | | | frequency with | | | | | an integration | | | | | bandwidth of | | | | | nominal | | | | | carrier BW | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
###### ## Annex B (normative): Environmental requirements for the repeater
# B.1 General
For each test in the present document, the environmental conditions under
which the repeater is to be tested are defined.
# B.2 Normal test environment
When a normal test environment is specified for a test, the test should be
performed within the minimum and maximum limits of the conditions stated in
table B.1.
Table B.1: Limits of conditions for normal test environment
Condition Minimum Maximum
* * *
Barometric pressure 86 kPa 106 kPa Temperature 15 °C 30 °C Relative humidity
20 % 85 % Power supply Nominal, as declared by the manufacturer  
Vibration Negligible
The ranges of barometric pressure, temperature and humidity represent the
maximum variation expected in the uncontrolled environment of a test
laboratory. If it is not possible to maintain these parameters within the
specified limits, the actual values shall be recorded in the test report.
NOTE: This may, for instance, be the case for measurements of radiated
emissions performed on an open field test site.
# B.3 Extreme test environment
The manufacturer shall declare one of the following:
1) The equipment class for the equipment under test, as defined in the IEC 60
721-3-3 [16];
2) The equipment class for the equipment under test, as defined in the IEC 60
721-3-4 [17];
3) The equipment that does not comply with the mentioned classes, the relevant
classes from IEC 60 721 [18] documentation for temperature, humidity and
vibration shall be declared.
NOTE: Reduced functionality for conditions that fall outside of the standard
operational conditions is not tested in the present document. These may be
stated and tested separately.
## B.3.1 Extreme temperature
When an extreme temperature test environment is specified for a test, the test
shall be performed at the standard minimum and maximum operating temperatures
defined by the manufacturer\'s declaration for the equipment under test.
**Minimum temperature:**
The test shall be performed with the environment test equipment and methods
including the required environmental phenomena into the equipment, conforming
to the test procedure of IEC 60 068-2-1 [19].
**Maximum temperature:**
The test shall be performed with the environmental test equipment and methods
including the required environmental phenomena into the equipment, conforming
to the test procedure of IEC 60 068-2-2 [20].
NOTE: It is recommended that the equipment is made fully operational prior to
the equipment being taken to its lower operating temperature.
# B.4 Vibration
When vibration conditions are specified for a test, the test shall be
performed while the equipment is subjected to a vibration sequence as defined
by the manufacturer\'s declaration for the equipment under test. This shall
use the environmental test equipment and methods of inducing the required
environmental phenomena in to the equipment, conforming to the test procedure
of IEC 60 068-2-6 [21]. Other environmental conditions shall be within the
ranges specified in annex B.2.
NOTE: The higher levels of vibration may induce undue physical stress in to
equipment after a prolonged series of tests. The testing body should only
vibrate the equipment during the RF measurement process.
# B.5 Power supply
When extreme power supply conditions are specified for a test, the test shall
be performed at the standard upper and lower limits of operating voltage
defined by manufacturer\'s declaration for the equipment under test.
**Upper voltage limit:**
The equipment shall be supplied with a voltage equal to the upper limit
declared by the manufacturer (as measured at the input terminals to the
equipment). The tests shall be carried out at the steady state minimum and
maximum temperature limits declared by the manufacturer for the equipment, to
the methods described in IEC 60 068-2-1 [19] Test Ab/Ad and IEC 60 068-2-2
[20] Test Bb/Bd: Dry heat.
**Lower voltage limit:**
The equipment shall be supplied with a voltage equal to the lower limit
declared by the manufacturer (as measured at the input terminals to the
equipment). The tests shall be carried out at the steady state minimum and
maximum temperature limits declared by the manufacturer for the equipment, to
the methods described in IEC 60 068-2-1 [19] Test Ab/Ad and IEC 60 068-2-2
[20] Test Bb/Bd: Dry heat.
# B.6 Measurement of test environments
The measurement accuracy of the repeater test environments defined in annex B
shall be:
Pressure: ±5 kPa
Temperature: ±2 degrees
Relative humidity: ±5 %
DC voltage: ±1.0 %
AC voltage: ±1.5 %
Vibration: 10 %
Vibration frequency: 0.1 Hz
The above values shall apply unless the test environment is otherwise
controlled and the specification for the control of the test environment
specifies the uncertainty for the parameter.
###### ## Annex C (informative): Test tolerances and derivation of test
requirements
# C.1 Measurement of conducted characteristics
Table C.1-1: Derivation of test requirements (conducted tests)
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Test | Minimum | Test | Test | | | requirement in | Tolerance\ | requirement in | | | T | (TT) | the present | | | S 38.106 [2] | | document | +================+================+================+================+ | 6.2 Repeater | See | Normal and | Formula: | | output power | TS | extreme | | | | 38.106 [2], | conditions: | Upper limit + | | | clause 6.2 | | TT, | | | | 0.7 dB, f ≤ | | | | | 3.0 GHz | Lower limit -- | | | | | TT | | | | 1.0 dB, 3.0 | | | | | GHz \ 20MHz: | Absolute limit | | | | 1.2 dB | +TT | | | | | | | | | Absolute | | | | | ACLR/CACLR: 0 | | | | | dB | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6.5.3 | See | Offsets \ and
> Where _N_ is the number of demodulation reference signals time-domain
> locations from for each demodulation reference signal subcarrier _f_.
3\. The equalizer coefficients for amplitude and phase and at the demodulation
reference signal subcarriers are obtained by computing the moving average in
the frequency domain of the time-averaged demodulation reference signal
subcarriers. The moving average window size is 19 and averaging is over the
DM-RS subcarriers in the allocated RBs. For DM-RS subcarriers at or near the
edge of the channel, or when the number of available DM-RS subcarriers within
a set of contiguously allocated RBs is smaller than the moving average window
size, the window size is reduced accordingly as per figure F.6-1.
4\. Perform linear interpolation from the equalizer coefficients and to
compute coefficients, for each subcarrier.
Figure E.6-1: Reference subcarrier smoothing in the frequency domain
# E.7 EVM
## E.7.0 General
For EVM create two sets of , according to the timing and , using the equalizer
coefficients from F.6.
The equivalent ideal samples are calculated from (annex E.2.2) and are called
.
The EVM is the difference between the ideal signal and the equalized measured
signal.
Where:
\- T is the set of symbols with the considered modulation scheme being active
within the slot,
\- is the set of subcarriers within the resource blocks with the considered
modulation scheme being active in symbol _t_ ,
\- _is_ the ideal signal reconstructed by the measurement equipment in
accordance with relevant test models,
\- is the equalized signal under test.
NOTE: Although the basic unit of measurement is one slot, the equalizer is
calculated over the entire 10 ms measurement interval to reduce the impact of
noise in the reference signals.
## E.7.1 Averaged EVM (FDD)
EVM is averaged over all allocated downlink resource blocks with the
considered modulation scheme in the frequency domain, and a minimum of slots
where is the number of slots in a 10 ms measurement interval. The averaging in
the time domain equals the slot duration of the 10 ms measurement interval
from the equalizer estimation step.
_Where_ is the number of resource blocks with the considered modulation scheme
in slot _i_.
The EVM requirements shall be tested against the maximum of the RMS average at
the window _W_ extremities of the EVM measurements:
Thus is calculated using in the expressions above and is calculated using in
the calculation where (_l_ and _h_ , low and high; where low is the timing and
high is the timing ).
Thus:
The resulting is compared against the limit.
## E.7.2 Averaged EVM (TDD)
Let be the number of slots with downlink symbols within a 10 ms measurement
interval. For TDD, the averaging in the time domain can be calculated from
slots of different 10 ms measurement intervals and should have a minimum of
slots averaging length where is the number of slots in a 10 ms measurement
interval.
is derived by: Square the EVM results in each 10 ms measurement interval. Sum
the squares, divide the sum by the number of EVM relevant locations, square-
root the quotient (RMS).
_Where_ is the number of resource blocks with the considered modulation scheme
in slot _i_.
The is calculated, using the maximum of at the window _W_ extremities. Thus is
calculated using and is calculated using (_l_ and _h_ , low and high; where
low is the timing and and high is the timing ).
In order to unite at least slots, consider the minimum integer number of 10 ms
measurement intervals, where is determined by.
and for 15 kHz SCS, for 30 kHz SCS and for 60 kHz SCS normal CP.
Unite by RMS.
The resulting is compared against the limit.
#