# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document establishes the Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO)
Over-the-Air (OTA) performance requirements for NR UEs operating on frequency
Range 1 and frequency rang 2, for NR standalone (SA) and NR non-standalone
(NSA) operation mode. The corresponding test methodologies are also presented
in the Annex of this Technical Specification.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 38.827: "Study on radiated metrics and test methodology for the
verification of multi-antenna reception performance of NR User Equipment
(UE)".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\"
[4] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\"
[5] 3GPP TS 38.101-3: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking operation with other
radios\"
[6] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\"
[7] 3GPP TS 38.508-1: \"5GS; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 1: Common test environment\"
[8] 3GPP TR 38.901: \"Study on channel model for frequencies from 0.5 to 100
GHz\"
[9] F. Zhang, L. Hentilä, P. Kyösti and W. Fan, \"Millimeter-wave New Radio
Test Zone Validation for MIMO Over-the-air Testing,\" in IEEE Transactions on
Antennas and Propagation, doi: 10.1109/TAP.2021.3111326.
[10] 3GPP TS 38.101-4: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 4: Performance requirements\"
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**FS:** UE used in a free space configuration.
**Handheld UE:** A UE intended to be used in hand held scenario.
**MIMO Average Spherical Coverage:** An averaged sensitivity of best 18 FR2
MIMO OTA sensitivity values within the 3D sphere with constant-density points
for PC3 device.
**Primary mechanical mode:** The mode that is most often used for a specific
user scenario. Every terminal has at least one primary mechanical mode, if
multiple modes are supported, different primary mechanical modes may be
applicable for different user scenarios, e.g., different primary mechanical
modes for Free Space and Hand phantom usage for the same UE.
**PSP (PAS Similarity Percentage):** The similarity of the PAS produced by the
OTA system and the reference PAS, which is presented by the Total Variation
Distance (TVD) of power angular spectrum (PAS). PSP is defined as
(1-TVD)*100%. PSP=100% denotes full similarity and PSP=0% denotes full
dissimilarity.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
_P~RS-EPRE-MAX\ ~_ Maximum downlink RS-EPRE
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AOA Azimuth angle Of Arrival
AOD Azimuth angle Of Departure
BS Base Station
CDL Clustered Delay Line
CW Continuous Wave
DML Data Mode Landscape
DMP Data Mode Portrait
DMSU Data Mode Screen Up
DUT Device Under Test
EUT Equipment Under Test
FR1 Frequency Range 1
FR2 Frequency Range 2
FS Free Space
MASC MIMO Average Spherical Coverage
MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output
MPAC Multi-Probe Anechoic Chamber
NR New Radio
NSA Non-Standalone, a mode of operation where operation of an other radio is
assisted with an other radio
OTA Over The Air
PAS Power Angular Spectrum
PDP Power Delay Profile
PSP PAS Similarity Percentage
RS-EPRE Reference Signal-Energy Per Resource Element
SS System Simulator
SSS Secondary Synchronization Signal
TRMS Total Radiated Multi-antenna Sensitivity
UE User Equipment
UMa Urban Macro
UMi Urban Micro
XPR Cross-Polarization Ratio
ZOA Zenith angle Of Arrival
ZOD Zenith angle Of Departure
ZSA Zenith angle Spread of Arrival
ZSD Zenith angle Spread of Departure
# 4 General
## 4.1 Relationship between minimum requirements and test requirements
The Minimum Requirements given in this specification make no allowance for
measurement uncertainty. The test specification in RAN5 will define test
tolerances for FR1 and FR2 MIMO OTA. The test tolerances are used to relax the
minimum requirements in this specification to create test requirements.
## 4.2 Applicability of minimum requirements
The MIMO OTA minimum requirements apply only to the primary mechanical mode of
UE which is declared by the manufacturer if the UE can support multiple
mechanical modes.
The minimum requirements apply only to the UE under normal environmental
conditions specified in Annex F.
# 5 Frequency bands
## 5.1 General
NR MIMO OTA Requirements are defined separately for different frequency ranges
(FR). The frequency ranges in which NR can operate according to this version
of the specification are identified as described in Table 5.1-1.
Table 5.1-1: Definition of frequency ranges
Frequency range designation Corresponding frequency range
* * *
FR1 410 MHz -- 7125 MHz FR2 24250 MHz -- 52600 MHz
The present specification covers both FR1 and FR2 operating bands. For FR2,
only FR2-1 bands are applicable.
## 5.2 Operating bands
NR is designed to operate in FR1 operating bands defined in TS 38.101-1 [3]
and FR2 operating bands defined in TS 38.101-2 [4]. NSA band combinations are
defined in TS 38.101-3 [5]. E-UTRA is designed to operate in operating bands
defined in TS 36.101 [6].
# 6 FR1 MIMO OTA requirements
## 6.1 General
### 6.1.1 Definition of MIMO throughput
The MIMO throughput is defined here as the time-averaged number of correctly
received transport blocks in a communication system running an application,
where a Transport Block is defined in the reference measurement channel. From
OTA perspective, this is also called MIMO OTA throughput. It will be used as
the baseline figure of merit for FR1 and FR2 MIMO OTA testing.
The MIMO OTA throughput is measured at the top of physical layer of NR system
under the use of FRC, the SS transmit fixed-size payload bits to the DUT. The
DUT signals back either ACK or NACK to the SS. The SS then records the
following:
\- Number of ACKs,
\- Number of NACKs, and
\- Number of DTX slots
Hence the MIMO (OTA) throughput can be calculated as
{width="3.5416666666666665in" height="0.3819444444444444in"}
Where Transmitted TBS is the Transport Block Size transmitted by the SS, which
is fixed for an FRC during the measurement period. MeasurementTime is the
total composed of successful slots (ACK), unsuccessful slots (NACK) and DTX-
symbols.
The time-averaging is to be taken over a time period sufficiently long to
average out the variations due to the fading channel. Therefore, this is also
called the average MIMO OTA throughput. The throughput should be measured at a
time when eventual start-up transients in the system have evanesced.
### 6.1.2 Total Radiated Multi-antenna Sensitivity (TRMS)
The average TRMS of free space data mode portrait (FS DMP), free space data
mode landscape (FS DML), and free space data mode screen up (FS DMSU), is
defined as the FR1 MIMO OTA requirement. The averaging shall be done in linear
scale for the TRMS results at these DUT positions, according to the formula:
where
Such that _MODE_ is one of {_FS_DMP, FS_DML, FS_DMSU_}, and {_P~MODE,70,0~,
..., P~MODE,70,11~_} are the measured sensitivity values at each azimuth
position at the 70% throughput outage.
If 1 azimuth position does not result in a defined measured sensitivity at 70%
throughput, S~MODE,70~ is calculated using the 11 measured sensitivities and
the maximum downlink RS-EPRE P~RS-EPRE-MAX~ (substitution approach) for the
one missing result. P~RS-EPRE-MAX~ is the maximum downlink RS-EPRE supported
by the test system, and is defined as -80dBm/15kHz (or equivalent
-77dBm/30kHz) for FR1 MIMO OTA.
The TRMS shall be measured at the mid channel as specified in TS 38.508-1
subclause 4.3.1 [7]. The average TRMS shall be lower than the average TRMS
requirements specified in Clause 6.2.
The additional criterion in azimuthal orientations shall be met:
\- The EUT must meet 70% throughput in 11 of total 12 azimuthal orientations.
If the EUT fails to meet this criterion even under maximum downlink power
condition (i.e. P~RS-EPRE-MAX~), the EUT shall fail the FR1 MIMO OTA test.
\- The EUT must meet 90% throughput in 10 of total 12 azimuthal orientations.
If the EUT fails to meet this criterion even under maximum downlink power
condition (i.e. P~RS-EPRE-MAX~), the EUT shall fail the FR1 MIMO OTA test.
## 6.2 Minimum requirement
FR1 TRMS minimum performance requirements for NR handheld UEs operating on SA
mode in free space and the primary mechanical mode for 70% DL throughput with
the corresponding measurement configurations (i.e., channel model and gNB
configuration) specified in Annex C.1 and Annex E.1 are defined in Table
6.2-1.
Table 6.2-1: FR1 TRMS minimum performance requirements for NR handheld UEs
operating on SA mode in free space and the primary mechanical mode
NR bands Bandwidth (MHz) MIMO layer Channel model Reference channel
TRMS~average,70~
* * *
n28 10 2x2 FR1 UMi CDL-C R.PDSCH.1-3.1 FDD TBD dBm/15kHz n41 40 4x4 FR1 UMa
CDL-C R.PDSCH.2-2.4 TDD -93.3 dBm/30kHz n78 40 4x4 FR1 UMa CDL-C R.PDSCH.2-2.4
TDD -94.8 dBm/30kHz n79 40 4x4 FR1 UMa CDL-C R.PDSCH.2-2.4 TDD TBD dBm/30kHz
# 7 FR2 MIMO OTA requirements
## 7.1 General
### 7.1.1 MIMO Average Spherical Coverage (MASC)
The MIMO Average Spherical Coverage (MASC) is the Figure of Merit of FR2 MIMO
OTA requirement. FR2 MIMO OTA is measured with 36 constant-density points
within the 3D sphere. The MASC is determined by the averaging of the best 18
sensitivity values for power class 3 UE. The averaging shall be done in linear
scale for the MASC result according to the formula:
$$\text{MAS}C_{70} = 10\log\left\lbrack \frac{18}{\left(
\frac{1}{10^{\frac{P_{70,1}}{10}}} + \frac{1}{10^{\frac{P_{70,2}}{10}}} +
\cdot \cdot \cdot + \frac{1}{10^{\frac{P_{70,18}}{10}}} \right)}
\right\rbrack$$
Such that {P~70,1~, ..., P~70,18~} are the best 18 sensitivity values from all
the 36 constant density measurement points, as defined in Annex B.2.3.
The MASC shall be measured at the mid channel as specified in TS 38.508-1
subclause 4.3.1 [7]. The MASC shall be lower than the requirements specified
in Clause 7.2.
_For FR2 MIMO OTA_ , P~RS-EPRE-MAX~, i.e., the maximum downlink RS-EPRE
supported by the test system, is defined as [-79.1dBm/120kHz].
If the number of test points where the UE can meet 70% maximum throughput
outage even under maximum downlink power condition (i.e., [-79.1dBm/120kHz])
is less than [18], then UE fails the test.
Other criteria for FR2 are FFS.
## 7.2 Minimum requirement
FR2 MASC minimum performance requirements for power class 3 NR handheld UEs in
free space and the primary mechanical mode for averaging of the best 18
sensitivity values for 70% DL throughput with the corresponding measurement
configurations (i.e., channel model and gNB configuration) specified in Annex
D.1 and Annex E.2 are defined in Table 7.2-1.
Table 7.2-1: FR2 MASC minimum performance requirements for NR handheld UEs in
free space and the primary mechanical mode
NR bands Bandwidth (MHz) MIMO layer Channel model Reference channel MASC~70~
[dBm/120kHz]
* * *
n257 100 2x2 FR2 UMi CDL-C R.PDSCH.5-2.2 TDD TBD n258 100 2x2 FR2 UMi CDL-C
R.PDSCH.5-2.2 TDD TBD n260 100 2x2 FR2 UMi CDL-C R.PDSCH.5-2.2 TDD TBD n261
100 2x2 FR2 UMi CDL-C R.PDSCH.5-2.2 TDD **TBD**
###### ## Annex A (normative): \
# A.1 General
FR1 MIMO OTA requirement testing is based on UE-noise limited environmental
condition, i.e., UE throughput characterized as a function of signal power
incident to the DUT antennas.
The minimum test zone size for FR1 MIMO OTA test methods is 20cm. "Black-box"
testing approach is adopted for NR MIMO OTA testing, the physical centre of
the EUT shall be placed in the centre of the test zone, the EUT shall be
completely contained within the minimum test zone size.
FR1 MIMO OTA requirement testing should be performed under primary mechanical
mode. The primary mechanical mode for devices having multiple mechanical modes
shall be declared by the manufacturers. Single primary mechanical mode for
each device should be declared for MIMO OTA conformance testing.
# A.2 Multi-Probe Anechoic Chamber (MPAC)
## A.2.1 System setup
MPAC test method is the reference methodology for FR NR MIMO OTA testing. By
arranging an array of antennas around the Equipment Under Test (EUT), a
spatial distribution of angles of arrival in MPAC system may be simulated to
expose the EUT to a near field environment that appears to have originated
from a complex multipath far field environment.
As illustrated schematically in Figure A.2.1-1, signals propagate from the
base station/communication tester to the EUT through a simulated multipath
environment known as a spatial channel model, where appropriate channel
impairments such as Doppler and fading are applied to each path prior to
injecting all of the directional signals into the chamber simultaneously
through the antenna array. The resulting field distribution in the test zone
is then integrated by the EUT antenna(s) and processed by the receiver(s) just
as it would do so in any non-simulated multipath environment. MPAC system with
16 uniformly-spaced dual-polarized probes is permitted for NR FR1 MIMO OTA
testing.
{width="6.008333333333334in" height="2.075in"}
Figure A.2.1-1: MPAC system layout for NR FR1 MIMO OTA testing
## A.2.2 Calibration procedure
The system needs to be calibrated by using a reference calibration antenna
with known gain values in order to ensure that the downlink signal power is
correct. In non-standalone (NSA) mode, the LTE link antenna provides a stable
LTE signal without precise path loss or polarization control.
Unlike traditional TRP/TRS testing where the path loss corrections can all be
applied as a post processing step to the measured data, the path loss for each
probe in the MPAC system must be balanced at test time in order to generate
the desired channel model environment within the test zone of the chamber. The
imbalance of each path during testing would result in an alteration of the
angular dependence of the channel model (i.e. varied characteristics of
generated channel model) within the test zone of the chamber.
1\. Place a vertical reference dipole in the centre of the test zone,
connected to a VNA port, with the other VNA port connected to the input of the
channel emulator unit.
2\. Configure the channel emulator for bypass mode.
3\. Measure the response of each path from each vertical polarization probe to
the reference antenna in the centre of test zone.
4\. Adjust the power on all vertical polarization branches of the channel
emulator so that the powers received at the centre are equal.
5\. Repeat the steps 1 to 4 with the magnetic loop or horizontally polarized
reference dipole instead, and adjust the horizontal polarization branches of
the channel emulator.
6\. The worst-case path loss becomes the reference path loss of the entire
system, this loss is used to compute the power in the centre of the test zone
relative to the output power of the Base Station simulator. Besides, based on
the reference path loss, the relative offset of each path loss shall be
corrected.
Note: Calibration based on other antennas, e.g., horn antennas is not
precluded.
## A.2.3 Test procedure
Before throughput testing, the initial conditions shall be confirmed to reach
the correct measurement state for each test case.
1\. Ensure environmental requirements of Annex F are met.
2\. Configure the test system according to Annex C, D and E for the applicable
test case.
3\. Verify the implementation of the channel model as specified in Annex C.3.
4\. Position the UE in the chamber according to Annex A.3.
5\. Power on the UE.
6\. Set up the connection.
Note: For step 3, the verification of the channel model implementation is
usually performed once for each channel model as part of the laboratory
accreditation process, and will remain valid as long as the setup and
instruments remain unchanged. Otherwise the channel model validation may need
to be performed prior to starting each throughput test.
For throughput testing, the following steps shall be followed in order to
evaluate NR MIMO OTA performance of the DUT:
1\. Measure MIMO OTA throughput from one measurement point, the maximum
downlink power P~RS-EPRE-MAX~ is defined in Clause 6.1.2. MIMO OTA throughput
is the minimum downlink signal power resulting in a pre-defined throughput
value, i.e., 70% and 90% of the maximum theoretical throughput. The downlink
signal power step size shall be no more than 0.5 dB when RF power level is
near the NR MIMO sensitivity level.
2\. Rotate the UE around vertical axis of the test system by 30 degrees and
repeat from step 1 until one complete rotation has been measured i.e. 12
different UE azimuth rotations.
3\. Repeat the test from step 1 for each specified device orientation. A list
of orientations is given in Annex A.3.
4\. The postprocessing method to calculate the average MIMO Throughput is
defined in Clause 6.
Note: For step 1 of throughput testing, the measurement is not needed to start
from maximum downlink power each time. To save testing time, the starting
downlink power can be set as a proper value (lower than maximum downlink power
supported by test system) as long as all the throughput curve curves at 12
different UE azimuth rotations can reach at least 90% of the maximum
theoretical throughput.
## A.2.4 Minimum Range Length
The minimum range length of FR1 MPAC system is defined as the distance from
the centre of the test zone to the aperture of the measurement
probes/antennas, as illustrated in Figure A.2.4-1.
{width="2.4833333333333334in" height="2.4833333333333334in"}
Figure A.2.4-1: Illustration of range length definition of FR1 MPAC
The minimum range length for NR FR1 MPAC OTA systems with 20cm test zone size
is 1.2m. While for MPAC systems, the far-field requirements do not have to
apply, it was shown that the spatial correlation can be impacted significantly
for distances below 1.2m.
## A.2.5 Preliminary MU budget of FR1 MPAC system
This clause defines the Preliminary measurement uncertainty (MU) budget for
FR1 MPAC system, as shown in Table A.2.5-1.
Table A.2.5-1: Preliminary measurement uncertainty budget for FR1 MPAC system
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UID | Desc | Example | Example | Distr | Std | Std | | | ription | value | value | ibution | Unce | Unce | | | of | (4 | (3GHz | of the | rtainty | rtainty | | | unce | 10MHz\
# B.1 General
FR2 MIMO OTA requirement testing is based on UE-noise limited environmental
condition, i.e., UE throughput characterized as a function of signal power
incident to the DUT antennas.
The minimum test zone size for FR2 MIMO OTA 3D-MPAC system is 20cm. "Black-
box" testing approach is adopted for NR MIMO OTA testing, the physical centre
of the EUT shall be placed in the centre of the test zone, the EUT shall be
completely contained within the minimum test zone size.
FR2 MIMO OTA requirement testing should be performed under primary mechanical
mode. The primary mechanical mode for devices having multiple mechanical modes
shall be declared by the manufacturers. Single primary mechanical mode for
each device should be declared for MIMO OTA conformance testing.
# B.2 FR2 3D Multi-Probe Anechoic Chamber (3D-MPAC)
## B.2.1 System setup
The 3D MPAC test method is the reference methodology for FR2 NR MIMO OTA
testing. By arranging an array of antennas around the Equipment Under Test
(EUT), a spatial distribution of angles of arrival in the 3D MPAC system may
be simulated to expose the EUT to a near field environment that appears to
have originated from a complex multipath far field environment.
As illustrated schematically in Figure B.2.1-1, signals propagate from the
base station/communication tester to the EUT through a simulated multipath
environment known as a spatial channel model, where appropriate channel
impairments such as Doppler and fading are applied to each path prior to
injecting all of the directional signals into the chamber simultaneously
through the probe array. The resulting field distribution in the test zone is
then integrated by the EUT antenna(s) and processed by the receiver(s) just as
it would do so in any non-simulated multipath environment. The 3D MPAC system
with 6 dual-polarized probes (illustrated with black dots in Figure B.2.1-1)
placed on a sector with minimum radius of 0.75m from the centre of the test
zone is permitted for NR FR2 MIMO OTA testing.
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="2.0416666666666665in"}
Figure B.2.1-1: 3D MPAC system layout for NR FR2 MIMO OTA testing
The exact probe locations with respect to the OTA test system coordinate
system are tabulated in Table B.2.1-1.
Table B.2.1-1. FR2 3D MPAC Probe Locations in OTA test system coordinate
system
+--------------+---------------+---------+ | Probe Number | Theta [deg] | Phi | | | | | | | | [deg] | +==============+===============+=========+ | 1 | 0.0 | 0.0 | +--------------+---------------+---------+ | 2 | 11.2 | 116.7 | +--------------+---------------+---------+ | 3 | 20.6 | -104.3 | +--------------+---------------+---------+ | 4 | 20.6 | 104.3 | +--------------+---------------+---------+ | 5 | 20.6 | 75.7 | +--------------+---------------+---------+ | 6 | 30.0 | 90.0 | +--------------+---------------+---------+
The 3D MPAC probes in Table B.2.1-1 can be implemented using conventional
millimetre-wave probes as well as IFF-based probes as long as the same probe
configuration and same number of probes is used.
The channel model parameters and probe locations for channel model
implementation are defined in a channel model coordinate system, which is
illustrated in figure B.2.1-2. The channel model coordinate axes _x_ ~CM~, _y_
~CM~, and _z_ ~CM~ correspond to the OTA test system coordinate axes _z_ , _y_
, and -_x_ , respectively.
{width="2.701388888888889in" height="2.3541666666666665in"}
Figure B.2.1-2: Channel Model Coordinate Axes in FR2 3D-MPAC system
The probe locations with respect to channel model coordinate axes are
tabulated in table B.2.1-2.
Table B.2.1-2. FR2 3D MPAC Probe Locations in Channel Model Coordinate System
Probe Number Theta [deg] Phi [deg]
* * *
1 90 0 2 85 10 3 85 -20 4 85 20 5 95 20 6 90 30
The channel model rotations assumed for this probe configuration are tabulated
in Table B.2.1-3.
Table B.2.1-3. Channel Model Rotations
UMi CDL-C
* * *
Phi [deg] Theta [deg] 32 15.0
This channel model rotation assumes the relative orientations of BS and UE
antennas displayed in Figure B.2.1-3, i.e., the DUT antenna is pointed towards
the BS in channel model coordinate system.
In order to avoid positioning ambiguities, the turntable implementing the
rotation in θ shall match the intended DUT θ for P0 Orientation 1 without the
re-positioning approach, as defined in Annex A.3 in [2], applied. With the re-
positioning approach applied, the relative orientation between the DUT and the
probes for P0 Orientation 2 shall be the same the relative orientation between
DUT and probes as for P0 Orientation 1.
{width="3.4166666666666665in" height="1.9166666666666667in"}
Figure B.2.1-3: Relative orientations of BS and UE antennas.
**Since the test points are uniformly spaced in 3D already, Table B.2.3-1,
there is no need to adjust/rotate the DUT rotations by the channel model
rotations.**
## B.2.2 Calibration procedure
The system needs to be calibrated by using a reference calibration antenna
with known gain values in order to ensure that the downlink signal power is
correct. In non-standalone (NSA) mode, the LTE link antenna provides a stable
LTE signal without precise path loss or polarization control.
The path loss for each probe in the 3D MPAC system must be calibrated at test
time in order to generate the desired channel model environment within the
test zone of the chamber. The imbalance of each path during testing would
result in an alteration of the angular dependence of the channel model (i.e.
varied characteristics of generated channel model) within the test zone of the
chamber.
For the calibration measurement, the reference antenna is placed in the centre
of the quiet zone, connected to a VNA port, with the other VNA port connected
to the input of the channel emulator unit as illustrated schematically in
Figure D.3.2-1. For each probe antenna, the reference antenna needs to be
aligned in polarization, i.e., θ or φ, and direction with the probe antenna
that corresponds to the respective path to be calibrated. For each calibration
measurement, the channel emulator needs to be configured in bypass mode. The
calibration process determines the composite loss, Lpath,pol, of the entire
receiver chain path gains (measurement antenna, amplification) and losses
(switches, combiners, cables, path loss, etc.). The calibration measurement is
repeated for each measurement path (two orthogonal polarizations and each
signal path).
## B.2.3 Test procedure
Before throughput testing, the initial conditions shall be confirmed to reach
the correct measurement state for each test case.
1\. Ensure environmental requirements of Annex F are met.
2\. Configure the test system according to Annex E.2 and Annex D.1 for the
applicable test case.
3\. Verify the implementation of the channel model as specified in Annex D.3.
4\. Position the UE in the chamber according to Annex B.3.
5\. Power on the UE.
6\. Set up the connection.
Note: For step 3, the verification of the channel model implementation is
usually performed once for each channel model as part of the laboratory
accreditation process, and will remain valid as long as the setup and
instruments remain unchanged. Otherwise the channel model validation may need
to be performed prior to starting each throughput test.
For throughput testing, the following steps shall be followed in order to
evaluate FR2 MIMO OTA performance of the DUT:
1\. Position the DUT in the default P0 alignment option (Orientation 1), as
defined in Annex A.3 in TR38.827 [2].
2\. Measure MIMO OTA throughput, the maximum downlink power is TBD. MIMO OTA
throughput is the minimum downlink signal power resulting in a pre-defined
throughput value (70%) of the maximum theoretical throughput. The downlink
signal power step size shall be no more than 0.5 dB when RF power level is
near the NR MIMO sensitivity level.
3\. Rotate the UE to the next test point. Table B.2.3-1 lists 36 evenly spaced
test points determined using the charged particle approach and with test point
#1 centred at (0,0).
4\. Repeat the test from step 2 for each specified test point. If the re-
positioning concept is applied, the device needs to be positioned in P0
Orientation 2 (either option 1 or option 2).
5\. The postprocessing method and the performance metric are defined in Clause
7.1.
Note: For step 2 of throughput testing, the measurement is not needed to start
from maximum downlink power each time. To save testing time, the starting
downlink power can be set as a proper value (lower than maximum downlink power
supported by test system) as long as the throughput curve can reach at least
70% of the maximum theoretical throughput.
Table B.2.3-1. Evenly spaced FR2 test points with a constant density
Test Point Number Theta [deg] Phi [deg]
* * *
1 0.0 0.0 2 33.5 139.7 3 33.9 49.7 4 35.5 -142.9 5 35.5 -76.9 6 37.6 -17.2 7
52.3 94.7 8 56.9 175.7 9 62.5 20.4 10 63.7 -99.8 11 67.1 -55.0 12 69.3 -139.5
13 69.5 130.1 14 70.3 60.8 15 72.1 -16.2 16 88.7 -167.5 17 88.7 98.5 18 89.3
157.0 19 93.9 -78.9 20 94.6 31.6 21 95.3 -115.6 22 99.6 -38.3 23 103.8 -1.1 24
104.4 66.3 25 110.1 127.5 26 115.1 -145.6 27 120.8 171.9 28 125.3 -60.7 29
128.2 -104.1 30 128.8 91.3 31 129.9 35.8 32 136.0 -13.4 33 145.8 138.1 34
150.2 -153.3 35 160.6 -67.4 36 161.7 59.1
## B.2.4 Minimum Range Length
The minimum range length of FR2 MPAC system is defined as the distance from
the centre of the test zone to the aperture of the measurement
probes/antennas, as illustrated in Figure B.2.4-1.
{width="3.386111111111111in" height="2.88125in"}
Figure B.2.4-1: Illustration of range length definition of FR2 3D-MPAC
The minimum range length for NR FR2 MPAC OTA systems with 20cm test zone size
is 0.75m. It was shown that the PSP can be reduced significantly for distances
below 0.75m.
## B.2.5 _Preliminary_ MU of FR2 3D-MPAC system
This clause defines the Preliminary measurement uncertainty (MU) budget for
FR2 3D-MPAC system, as shown in Table B.2.5-1.
Table B.2.5-1: Preliminary measurement uncertainty budget for FR2 3D-MPAC
system
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UID | Desc | Example | Example | Distr | Std | Std | | | ription | value | value | ibution | Unce | Unce | | | of | (26.5 | (37GHz | of the | rtainty | rtainty | | | unce | GHz≤f≤2 | ≤f | prob | (26.5 | (37GHz | | | rtainty | 9.5GHz) | ≤40GHz) | ability | GHz≤f≤2 | ≤f | | | contr | | | | 9.5GHz) | ≤40GHz) | | | ibution | | | | [dB] | [dB] | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+ | Stage | | | | | | | | 2: DUT | | | | | | | | meas | | | | | | | | urement | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1 | M | 1.30 | TBD | Actual | 1.30 | TBD | | | ismatch | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | meas | | | | | | | | urement | | | | | | | | process | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2 | Measure | 0.00 | TBD | Rect | 0.00 | TBD | | | d | | | angular | | | | | istance | | | | | | | | unce | | | | | | | | rtainty | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 3 | Quality | 0.6 | TBD | Actual | 0.6 | TBD | | | of | | | | | | | | quiet | | | | | | | | zone | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 4 | Base | 2.9 | TBD | Normal | 1.45 | TBD | | | Station | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | | mulator | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 5 | Channel | TBD | TBD | Normal | TBD | TBD | | | E | | | | | | | | mulator | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -a | | | | | | | | bsolute | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -st | | | | | | | | ability | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -li | | | | | | | | nearity | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 6 | Am | \ | TBD | [N | \ | TBD | | | plifier | [2.10] | | ormal] | [1.05] | | | | uncert | | | | | | | | ainties | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 7 | Random | 0.50 | TBD | Normal | 0.25 | TBD | | | unce | | | | | | | | rtainty | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 8 | Thr | 0.25 | TBD | Rect | 0.14 | TBD | | | oughput | | | angular | | | | | measu | | | | | | | | rement: | | | | | | | | output | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | step | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | olution | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 9 | DUT | 0.2 | 0.2 | Rect | 0.12 | TBD | | | sens | | | angular | | | | | itivity | | | | | | | | drift | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 10 | Signal | 0.00 | 0.00 | Normal | 0.00 | TBD | | | f | | | | | | | | latness | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Stage | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | Cali | | | | | | | | bration | | | | | | | | meas | | | | | | | | urement | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 11 | M | 0.00 | TBD | U | 0.00 | TBD | | | ismatch | | | -Shaped | | | | | for | | | | | | | | cali | | | | | | | | bration | | | | | | | | process | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | oopback | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | path | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | system | | | | | | | | input | | | | | | | | path | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | ference | | | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 12 | Re | 0.01 | TBD | Rect | 0.00 | TBD | | | ference | | | angular | | | | | antenna | | | | | | | | posi | | | | | | | | tioning | | | | | | | | misal | | | | | | | | ignment | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 13 | Quality | 0.60 | TBD | Actual | 0.60 | TBD | | | of | | | | | | | | quiet | | | | | | | | zone | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 14 | Total | 0.73 | TBD | Normal | 0.37 | TBD | | | unce | | | | | | | | rtainty | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | Network | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | nalyzer | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 15 | Unce | 0.60 | TBD | Normal | 0.30 | TBD | | | rtainty | | | | | | | | of an | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | bsolute | | | | | | | | gain of | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | cali | | | | | | | | bration | | | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 16 | Offset | 0.00 | TBD | Rect | 0.00 | TBD | | | of the | | | angular | | | | | Phase | | | | | | | | Center | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | ference | | | | | | | | Antenna | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **Total | TBD | TBD | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | xpanded | | | | | | | | Uncer | | | | | | | | tainty, | | | | | | | | U, with | | | | | | | | 95% | | | | | | | | Con | | | | | | | | fidence | | | | | | | | Int | | | | | | | | erval** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## B.2.6 Sample Device Orientations for Selected Test Points
Tables B.2.6-1 and B.2.6-2 include illustrations of device/positioner/probe
configurations & orientations based on a sample MIMO OTA test system for
various test points for Theta \ 90° (Table
B.2.6-2), respectively.
Table B.2.6-1. Visualization of DUT Orientation of test points with Theta \ 90° include the device and
positioner orientations with the device placed in the P0 alignment option with
Orientation 1 as well as Orientation 2 (Option 1 or Option 2) with the re-
positioning approach as defined in Annex A.3 in [2].
Table B.2.6-2. Visualization of DUT Orientation of test points with Theta >
90°.
Test Point Number Theta [deg] Phi [deg] Sample System/DUT Illustration with P0
-- Orientation 1 Sample System/DUT Illustration with P0 -- Orientation 2
* * *
19 93.9 -78.9 {width="2.201376859142607in" height="2.4233136482939632in"}
{width="2.1802416885389326in" height="2.4049081364829394in"} ...  
35 160.6 -67.4 {width="2.128834208223972in" height="2.3434580052493437in"}
{width="2.012269247594051in" height="2.2151410761154855in"} 36 161.7 59.1
{width="2.018404418197725in" height="2.2218952318460192in"}
{width="2.4049081364829394in" height="2.647364391951006in"}
# B.3 EUT positioning
This Clause defines the measurement coordinate system for the NR MIMO OTA.
For FR2 MIMO OTA, the DUT shall be tested using a 3D scan. With the DUT
positioned in the default P0 alignment option, as defined in Annex A.3 in [2],
measurements on 36 evenly spaced test points with a constant density shall be
performed.
###### ## Annex C (normative): \
# C.1 FR1 Channel models
The following channel models are required for FR1 MIMO OTA measurement.
The generic models are Table C.1-1 FR1 UMi CDL-C and Table C.1-2 FR1 UMa
CDL-C, which do not include base station antenna filtering. UMi CDL-C and UMa
CDL-C are selected to define 2x2 and 4x4 MIMO OTA requirements, respectively.
Therefore, in addition, the BS beam filtering effect defined in Annex C.2 also
apply when emulating the channel models.
Table C.1-1: Channel model parameters for UMi CDL-C
* * *
Cluster # Absolute Delay [ns] Power in [dB] AOD in [°] AOA in [°] ZOD in [°]
ZOA in [°] 1 0 -4.4215 -36.1891 -122.2815 98.9242 90 2 20.99 -1.25 -21.5937
125.831 99.1915 90 3 22.19 -3.4684 -21.5937 125.831 99.1915 90 4 23.29 -5.2294
-21.5937 125.831 99.1915 90 5 21.76 -2.5215 -32.5709 -143.6126 99.5732 90 6
63.66 0 -7.4275 166.4003 99.306 90 7 64.48 -2.2185 -7.4275 166.4003 99.306 90
8 65.6 -3.9794 -7.4275 166.4003 99.306 90 9 65.84 -7.4215 37.2175 73.8315
100.4513 90 10 79.35 -7.1215 -47.1664 82.7664 98.5616 90 11 82.13 -10.7215
41.5716 -79.6999 100.6231 90 12 93.36 -11.1215 -67.1585 66.9895 98.218 90 13
122.85 -5.1215 -41.5244 84.0543 100.165 90 14 130.83 -6.8215 -47.0437 -96.2818
100.2604 90 15 217.04 -8.7215 -55.7519 94.8406 98.1225 90 16 271.05 -13.2215
55.3698 53.9494 100.2604 90 17 425.89 -13.9215 53.2234 16.0364 98.4852 90 18
460.03 -13.9215 46.8456 32.2963 98.1416 90 19 549.02 -15.8215 -70.1021 18.2098
97.9698 90 20 560.77 -17.1215 48.9306 37.0455 100.7376 90 21 630.65 -16.0215
49.6052 33.7452 98.1225 90 22 663.74 -15.7215 57.7615 29.801 98.1034 90 23
704.27 -21.6215 65.6725 11.6092 100.4513 90 24 865.23 -22.8215 -83.5324
56.2837 100.9476 90 Per-Cluster Parameters  
Parameter CASD in [°] CASA in [°] CZSD in [°] CZSA in [°] XPR in [dB]  
Value 1.2265 12.0742 0.5726 0 7
* * *
Table C.1-2: Channel model parameters for UMa CDL-C
* * *
Cluster # Absolute Delay [ns] Power in [dB] AOD in [°] AOA in [°] ZOD in [°]
ZOA in [°] 1 0 -4.4215 -37.4195 -96.4031 96.7645 90 2 76.6135 -1.25 -21.7362
118.7405 98.4506 90 3 80.9935 -3.4684 -21.7362 118.7405 98.4506 90 4 85.0085
-5.2294 -21.7362 118.7405 98.4506 90 5 79.424 -2.5215 -33.5316 -124.0196
100.8594 90 6 232.359 0 -6.5142 171.2639 99.1732 90 7 235.352 -2.2185 -6.5142
171.2639 99.1732 90 8 239.44 -3.9794 -6.5142 171.2639 99.1732 90 9 240.316
-7.4215 41.4581 51.4188 106.3995 90 10 289.6275 -7.1215 -49.2149 62.9864
94.4761 90 11 299.7745 -10.7215 46.1367 -41.2744 107.4834 90 12 340.764
-11.1215 -70.697 42.5606 92.3083 90 13 448.4025 -5.1215 -43.1524 64.6538
104.5929 90 14 477.5295 -6.8215 -49.0831 -62.7423 105.1951 90 15 792.196
-8.7215 -58.4403 78.6184 91.7061 90 16 989.3325 -13.2215 60.9633 25.6781
105.1951 90 17 1554.4985 -13.9215 58.6569 -23.4063 93.9944 90 18 1679.1095
-13.9215 51.8037 -2.3553 91.8265 90 19 2003.923 -15.8215 -73.86 -20.5926
90.7426 90 20 2046.8105 -17.1215 54.0442 3.7933 108.2061 90 21 2301.8725
-16.0215 54.7691 -0.4794 91.7061 90 22 2422.651 -15.7215 63.5332 -5.5859
91.5856 90 23 2570.5855 -21.6215 72.0338 -29.1381 106.3995 90 24 3158.0895
-22.8215 -88.2912 28.7003 109.5309 90 Per-Cluster Parameters  
Parameter CASD in [°] CASA in [°] CZSD in [°] CZSA in [°] XPR in [dB]  
Value 1.3179 15.632 3.6131 0 7
* * *
# C.2 FR1 Base Station beam configuration
The emulated BS beam configuration to be used for all emulation of channel
models defined in Annex C.1 is specified in this clause.
The Base Station beam configuration includes basic antenna parameters and
beamforming characteristic. The basic BS antenna parameters is defined in
Table C.2-1.
Table C.2-1: BS Antenna Parameters
Parameter description Symbol Parameter value
* * *
                                                         FR1 ≤2.5GHz       FR1 \>2.5GHz
Antenna panels in vertical dimension _M~g~_ 1 1 Antenna panels in horizontal
dimension _N~g~_ 1 1 Elements per panel in vertical dimension _M~e~_ 4 8
Elements per panel in horizontal dimension _N~e~_ 8 8 Number of polarizations
per panel _P_ 2 2 Element spacing in horizontal dimension (λ) _d~H~_ 0.5 0.5
Element spacing in vertical dimension (λ) _d~V~_ 0.5 0.5
Antenna element radiation patterns, including orientation of the element main
polarization components as well as orientation of the antenna array are as in
the example pattern in Table 7.3-1 of TR38.901. The antenna element has ±45°
polarization components and the radiation pattern parameters are θ~3dB~ = 65°,
φ~3dB~ = 65°, A~max~ = 30dB, SLAv = 30dB, _G~E,max~_ =8 dBi.
The beamforming characteristic of the FR1 BS pattern is defined as follow:
\- A code book of 60 fixed beams is constructed to a grid of five elevation
angles from --20° to +20° with 10° steps and 12 azimuth angles from --80° to
+80° with \~15° steps；
\- For 4x4 MIMO OTA, two strongest transmitting beams are selected from the
pre-defined beam grid based on their proximity to the strong clusters of each
FR1 channel model. These beams should have different azimuth directions and
can provide the highest receive power for UE.
\- For 2x2 MIMO OTA, 1 strongest transmitting beam is selected from the pre-
defined beam grid which provides the highest received power for UE based on
the FR1 channel model.
\- Beam directions for channels model given in Annex C.1 are:
\- For UMa CDL-C, the beam directions are:
\- Strongest beam: AoD: -7.27°, ZoD: 100°
\- 2^nd^ strongest beam: AoD: -21.82°, ZoD: 100°
\- For UMi CDL-C, the strongest beam direction is: AoD: -7.27°, ZoD: 100°.
# C.3 FR1 Channel model validation
## C.3.1 General
This clause describes the MIMO OTA validation measurements, in order to ensure
that the channel models are correctly implemented and hence capable of
generating the propagation environment, as described by the model, within the
test zone.
The following measurements shall be done for FR1 channel model validation:
\- Power Delay Profile (PDP)
\- Doppler/Temporal correlation
\- Spatial correlation
\- Cross-polarization
\- Power validation
Frequencies to be used to test for channel model validation:
Table C.3.1-1: Frequencies for PDP, Doppler, Spatial correlation, and Cross-
polarization validation
* * *
NR FR1 Bands Range Test frequency (MHz) n71 Low 617MHz n12, n17, n29, n14, n28
722MHz n5, n8, n18, n20 836.5MHz n50, n51, n74 Mid 1575.42MHz n3, n2, n25, n39
1880MHz n1, n34, n65 2132.5MHz n7, n30, n41, n40, n38, [n90] 2450MHz n77,n78
High 3600MHz n79 [4700MHz]
* * *
Table C.3.1-2: Frequencies for Power validation
* * *
NR FR1 Bands Range Test frequency (centre frequency of each band) n71 Low n71
n12, n17, n29, n14, n28 n28 n5, n8, n18, n20 n8 n50, n51, n74 Mid n51 n3, n2,
n25, n39 n3 n1, n34, n65 n1 n7, n30, n41, n40, n38, [n90] n41 n77, n78 High
n78 n79 n79
* * *
## C.3.2 Power Delay Profile (PDP)
This measurement checks that the resulting power delay profile (PDP) is in-
line with the PDP defined for the channel model. For PDP validation
measurement, only Vertical validation is required.
The PDP measurement is performed with a Vector Network Analyser (VNA). An
example setup for PDP measurement is shown in Figure C.3.2-1. VNA transmits
frequency sweep signals thorough the NR MIMO OTA test system. A reference
antenna (i.e dipole antenna), within the centre of the test zone, receives the
signal and VNA analyses the frequency response of the system. A number of
traces (frequency responses) are measured and recorded by VNA and analysed by
a post processing SW, e.g., Matlab. Special care has to be taken into account
to keep the fading conditions unchanged, i.e. frozen, during the short period
of time of a single trace measurement. The fading may proceed only in between
traces.
{width="5.089583333333334in" height="1.4881944444444444in"}
Figure C.3.2-1: Setup for PDP measurements
Step the emulation and store traces from VNA, i.e., run the emulation to CIR
number 1, pause, measure VNA trace, run the emulation to CIR number 10, pause,
measure VNA trace. Continue until 1000 VNA traces are measured.
VNA settings for PDP measurements are presented in Table C.3.2-1.
Table C.3.2-1: VNA settings for PDP measurements
+------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +==================+======+===========================+ | Centre frequency | MHz | Downlink centre frequency | | | | | | | | in Table C.3.1-1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Span | MHz | 200 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of traces | | 1000 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of points | | 1101 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Averaging | | 1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+
Channel model specification for PDP measurements is presented in Table
C.3.2-2.
Table C.3.2-2: Channel model specification for PDP measurements
+-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +=======================+===================+=======================+ | Centre frequency | MHz | Downlink centre | | | | frequency | | | | | | | | in Table C.3.1-1 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Distance between | wavelength (Note) | > 2 | | traces in channel | | | | model | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Channel model | | As specified in Annex | | | | C.1 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | NOTE: Time [s] = | | | | distance [λ] / MS | | | | speed [λ/s] | | | | | | | | MS speed [λ/s] = MS | | | | speed [m/s] / Speed | | | | of light [m/s] * | | | | Centre frequency | | | | [Hz] | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+
**Method of measurement result analysis:**
Measured VNA traces (frequency responses H(t,f)) are saved into a hard drive.
The data is read into, e.g., Matlab.\ The analysis is performed by taking the
Fourier transform of each FR. The resulting impulse responses h(t,τ) are
averaged in power over time:
Finally the resulting PDP is shifted in delay, such that the first tap is on
delay zero.
**Beam-Specific Block Diagram**
It is assumed that the beams are mapped to the inputs of the channel emulator
as follows:
\- Beam 1: Input 1 and Input 2
\- Beam 2: Input 3 and Input 4 (CDL-C UMa only)
{width="5.086805555555555in" height="1.2201388888888889in"}
Figure C.3.2-2: Setup for Beam-Specific PDP measurements (Beam 1)
{width="5.073611111111111in" height="1.2in"}
Figure C.3.2-3: Setup for Beam-Specific PDP measurements (Beam 2 CDL-C UMa
only)
The detailed PDP reference value for CDL-C UMa and CDL-C UMi validation are
defined in the following tables:
Table C.3.2-3: PDP Targets for CDL-C UMa beam 1 at ≤ 2.5 GHz
Combined Clusters index Delay(ns) Power(dB)
* * *
1 0 -34.3 2-5 80 -19.5 6-8 235 0.0 9-10 290 -33.0 11 450 -35.8 12 480 -34.0
Table C.3.2-4: PDP Targets for CDL-C UMa beam 2 at ≤ 2.5 GHz
Combined Clusters index Delay(ns) Power(dB)
* * *
1 0 -27.9 2-5 80 0.0 6-8 235 -18.4 9-10 290 -27.8 11 450 -27.9 12 480 -28.0
Table C.3.2-5: PDP Targets for CDL-C UMa beam 1 at > 2.5 GHz
Combined Clusters index Delay(ns) Power(dB)
* * *
1 0 -34.2 2-5 80 -19.3 6-8 235 0.0 9 290 -34.7 10 450 -35.8 11 480 -34.7
Table C.3.2-6: PDP Targets for CDL-C UMa beam 2 at > 2.5 GHz
Combined Clusters index delay(ns) power(dB)
* * *
1 0 -27.8 2-5 80 0.0 6-8 235 -18.3 9-10 290 -28.9 11 450 -28.1 12 480 -28.8
Table C.3.2-7: PDP Targets for CDL-C UMi at ≤ 2.5 GHz and > 2.5 GHz
Combined Clusters index Delay(ns) Power(dB)
* * *
1 0 -30.7 2-5 20 -19.2 6-10 65 0 11-12 130 -31.4
## C.3.3 Doppler/Temporal correlation
This measurement checks the Doppler/temporal correlation. For Doppler/Temporal
correlation validation measurement, only Vertical validation is required.
The Doppler spectrum is measured with a spectrum analyser as shown in Figure
C.3.3-1. In this case a signal generator transmits CW signal through the NR
MIMO OTA test system. The signal is received by a test antenna within the test
area. Finally, the signal is analysed by a spectrum analyser and the measured
spectrum is compared to the target spectrum. This setup can be used to measure
Doppler Spectrum of the Channel models defined in Annex C.1.
**Method of measurement:**
{width="4.71875in" height="1.7372386264216972in"}
Figure C.3.3-1: Setup for Doppler measurements
Sine wave (CW, carrier wave) signal is transmitted from the signal generator.
The signal is connected from the signal generator to fading emulator via
cables. The fading emulator output signals are connected to power amplifier
boxes via cables. The amplified signals are then transferred via cables to the
probe antennas. The probe antennas radiate the signals over the air to the
test antenna. The Doppler spectrum is measured by the spectrum analyser and
the trace is saved.
Signal generator settings for Doppler/Temporal correlation measurements are
presented in Table C.3.3-1.
Table C.3.3-1: Signal generator settings for Doppler/Temporal correlation
measurements
+------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +==================+======+===========================+ | Centre frequency | MHz | Downlink centre frequency | | | | | | | | in Table C.3.1-1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Modulation | | OFF | +------------------+------+---------------------------+
Spectrum analyser settings for Doppler/Temporal correlation measurements are
presented in Table C.3.3-2.
Table C.3.3-2: Spectrum analyser settings for Doppler/Temporal correlation
measurements
+------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +==================+======+===========================+ | Centre frequency | MHz | Downlink centre frequency | | | | | | | | in Table C.3.1-1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Minimum Span | Hz | 4 kHz | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | RBW | Hz | 1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | VBW | Hz | 1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of points | | 16002 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Averaging | | 100 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+
Channel model specification for Doppler/Temporal correlation measurements is
presented in Table C.3.3-3.
Table C.3.3-3: Channel model specification for Doppler/Temporal correlation
measurements
+------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +==================+======+===========================+ | Centre frequency | MHz | Downlink centre frequency | | | | | | | | in Table C.3.1-1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Channel model | | As specified in Annex C.1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Mobile speed | km/h | 100 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+
Method of measurement result analysis: Measurement data file (Doppler power
spectrum) is saved into hard drive. The data is read into, e.g., Matlab. The
analysis is performed by taking the Fourier transformation of the Doppler
spectrum. The resulting temporal correlation function is normalized such that
max(abs(_R~t~_(∆ _t_)))=1. Then the function values left from the maximum
i.e., the negative lags are cut out. Further on the function values after five
periods are cut out.
**Time Domain Alternate Method**
Time domain techniques can also be used to validate the tempoal correlation.
The temporal correlation validation measurement setup is illustrated in Figure
C.3.3-2. In this case a Signal generator transmits a CW signal through the
MIMO test system. The signal is received by a test antenna within the test
area. Finally, the signal is collected by a signal analyser and the measured
signal is stored as IQ data format for postprocessing.
{width="4.715277777777778in" height="1.7361111111111112in"}
Figure C.3.3-2: Setup for Doppler measurements based on time domain technique
The time domain doppler spectrum is measured by the signal analyzer and the
trace in IQ format is saved. Follow the same procedure to post process the
data and calculate the temporal correlation curve. Data recording is
synchronized with the channel emulator trigger.
The settings for the signal analyser are presented in Table C.3.3-4.
> Table C.3.3-4: Signal Analyser Settings
Item Unit Value
* * *
Centre frequency MHz Downlink centre frequency in Table C.3.1-1 Sampling Hz At
least 15 times bigger than the max Doppler spread (_f~d~=v/λ)_ Observation
time s At least 16s. Channel Model length should be the same or greater than
the observation time.
**Beam-Specific Block Diagram**
It is assumed that the beams are mapped to the inputs of the channel emulator
as follows:
\- Beam 1: Input 1 and Input 2
\- Beam 2: Input 3 and Input 4 (CDL-C UMa only)
{width="4.350649606299212in" height="1.253885608048994in"}
Figure C.3.3-3: Setup for Beam-Specific Doppler measurements (Beam 1)
{width="4.344155730533683in" height="1.2516557305336833in"}
Figure C.3.3-4: Setup for Beam-Specific Doppler measurements (Beam 2 CDL-C UMa
only)
The detailed Temporal correlation reference value for CDL-C UMa and CDL-C UMi
channel model validation is defined in Table C.3.3-5.
Table C.3.3-5: Autocorrelation Targets
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Lambda | CDL-C | CDL-C | CDL-C | CDL-C | CDL-C | CDL-C | | Sep | UMa | UMa | UMa | UMa | UMi | UMi | | aration | beam 1 | beam 2 | beam 1 | beam 2 | beam 1 | beam 1 | | | at | at ≤ | at > | at > | at | at > | | | | 2.5 GHz | 2.5 GHz | 2.5 GHz | | 2.5 GHz | | | ≤ 2.5 | | | | ≤ 2.5 | | | | GHz | | | | GHz | | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+ | 0.0 | 1.000 | 1.000 | 1.000 | 1.000 | 1.000 | 1.000 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 0.1 | 0.986 | 0.974 | 0.985 | 0.973 | 0.995 | 0.995 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 0.2 | 0.945 | 0.907 | 0.942 | 0.904 | 0.982 | 0.982 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 0.3 | 0.882 | 0.832 | 0.874 | 0.825 | 0.962 | 0.961 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 0.4 | 0.801 | 0.776 | 0.787 | 0.765 | 0.936 | 0.935 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 0.5 | 0.709 | 0.738 | 0.689 | 0.723 | 0.906 | 0.905 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 0.6 | 0.613 | 0.695 | 0.586 | 0.675 | 0.872 | 0.871 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 0.7 | 0.518 | 0.623 | 0.486 | 0.599 | 0.834 | 0.834 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 0.8 | 0.430 | 0.525 | 0.394 | 0.496 | 0.793 | 0.793 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 0.9 | 0.353 | 0.426 | 0.315 | 0.391 | 0.750 | 0.749 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1.0 | 0.289 | 0.360 | 0.252 | 0.319 | 0.705 | 0.704 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1.1 | 0.240 | 0.335 | 0.206 | 0.290 | 0.659 | 0.658 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1.2 | 0.204 | 0.320 | 0.174 | 0.273 | 0.614 | 0.612 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1.3 | 0.181 | 0.287 | 0.154 | 0.239 | 0.569 | 0.568 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1.4 | 0.167 | 0.233 | 0.143 | 0.185 | 0.527 | 0.525 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1.5 | 0.159 | 0.176 | 0.137 | 0.129 | 0.487 | 0.485 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1.6 | 0.155 | 0.141 | 0.135 | 0.096 | 0.450 | 0.448 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1.7 | 0.153 | 0.135 | 0.134 | 0.092 | 0.417 | 0.415 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1.8 | 0.150 | 0.137 | 0.134 | 0.095 | 0.387 | 0.385 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1.9 | 0.144 | 0.132 | 0.130 | 0.093 | 0.361 | 0.358 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2.0 | 0.135 | 0.117 | 0.122 | 0.089 | 0.337 | 0.335 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2.1 | 0.121 | 0.097 | 0.109 | 0.086 | 0.316 | 0.313 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2.2 | 0.105 | 0.076 | 0.090 | 0.076 | 0.296 | 0.293 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2.3 | 0.085 | 0.062 | 0.069 | 0.064 | 0.277 | 0.274 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2.4 | 0.065 | 0.071 | 0.047 | 0.067 | 0.258 | 0.255 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2.5 | 0.048 | 0.090 | 0.031 | 0.088 | 0.239 | 0.236 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2.6 | 0.039 | 0.099 | 0.033 | 0.103 | 0.219 | 0.216 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2.7 | 0.038 | 0.088 | 0.046 | 0.099 | 0.198 | 0.195 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2.8 | 0.042 | 0.058 | 0.057 | 0.073 | 0.178 | 0.175 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2.9 | 0.043 | 0.037 | 0.062 | 0.038 | 0.158 | 0.154 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 3.0 | 0.041 | 0.067 | 0.060 | 0.045 | 0.138 | 0.135 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 3.1 | 0.037 | 0.103 | 0.050 | 0.080 | 0.120 | 0.116 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 3.2 | 0.036 | 0.120 | 0.036 | 0.100 | 0.103 | 0.100 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 3.3 | 0.044 | 0.115 | 0.019 | 0.099 | 0.089 | 0.085 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 3.4 | 0.056 | 0.097 | 0.010 | 0.081 | 0.076 | 0.073 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 3.5 | 0.068 | 0.082 | 0.019 | 0.061 | 0.066 | 0.063 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 3.6 | 0.075 | 0.083 | 0.029 | 0.053 | 0.057 | 0.055 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 3.7 | 0.076 | 0.090 | 0.034 | 0.060 | 0.051 | 0.049 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 3.8 | 0.068 | 0.089 | 0.036 | 0.073 | 0.046 | 0.044 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 3.9 | 0.051 | 0.079 | 0.044 | 0.091 | 0.042 | 0.041 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 4.0 | 0.027 | 0.068 | 0.062 | 0.111 | 0.039 | 0.038 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 4.1 | 0.007 | 0.063 | 0.090 | 0.127 | 0.037 | 0.035 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 4.2 | 0.036 | 0.062 | 0.123 | 0.133 | 0.036 | 0.034 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 4.3 | 0.067 | 0.057 | 0.155 | 0.129 | 0.038 | 0.036 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 4.4 | 0.093 | 0.052 | 0.182 | 0.126 | 0.043 | 0.040 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 4.5 | 0.111 | 0.055 | 0.200 | 0.131 | 0.051 | 0.048 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 4.6 | 0.119 | 0.063 | 0.207 | 0.139 | 0.061 | 0.058 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 4.7 | 0.116 | 0.066 | 0.200 | 0.138 | 0.073 | 0.070 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 4.8 | 0.101 | 0.058 | 0.180 | 0.117 | 0.085 | 0.082 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 4.9 | 0.078 | 0.047 | 0.149 | 0.079 | 0.096 | 0.093 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 5.0 | 0.051 | 0.048 | 0.110 | 0.034 | 0.107 | 0.104 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## C.3.4 Spatial correlation
This measurement checks whether the measured correlation curve follows the
theoretical curve. For spatial correlation validation measurement, only
Vertical validation measurement is required. Spatial correlation validation is
only adopted for FR1 MIMO OTA.
The spatial correlation validation measurement setup is illustrated in Figure
C.3.4-1. The network analyser transmits signals through the fading emulator
and probes. The 16 probes radiate the signals within the anechoic chamber and
a receiving test antenna is placed within the test zone. The test antenna is
attached to a positioner that can move the antenna to pre-defined spatial
locations on a fixed radius from the centre of the quiet zone. The received
signal is measured with the network analyser.
The measurement and analysis procedure are as follows:
> Set the target channel model to fading emulator.
1\. For each position of the test antenna in the test zone, step & pause the
emulator to different time instances. Measure the frequency responses for all
stepped channel snapshots , where the interval between frequency and time
samples is and , respectively. The number of channel snapshots $N$ and
frequency samples $M$ should be sufficiently high so that the matrix can be
estimated reliably.
2\. Move the measurement antenna with a positioner to another location $k$ and
repeat step 2 to record frequency responses of all stepped channel snapshots.
> 3\. Repeat step 3 to record frequency responses at all spatial sample
> points.
4\. Stack measured time and frequency samples to a vector and calculate
correlation between the first spatial sample point (i.e. $k = 1$) and other
spatial points
> 5\.
6\. Take the theoretical reference spatial correlation of the corresponding
spatial sample points. Plot both the measured and theoretical curves.
> 7\. Calculate the weighted RMS correlation error between the measured and
> the reference.
{width="3.5097222222222224in" height="2.2916666666666665in"}
Figure C.3.4-1: Configuration for spatial correlation validation
**Beam-Specific Block Diagram**
It is assumed that the beams are mapped to the inputs of the channel emulator
as follows:
\- Beam 1: Input 1 and Input 2
\- Beam 2: Input 3 and Input 4 (CDL-C UMa only)
{width="4.577922134733158in" height="1.0852187226596675in"}
Figure C.3.4-2: Configuration for spatial correlation validation (CDL-C UMi)
{width="4.519480533683289in" height="1.0713648293963254in"}
Figure C.3.4-3: Configuration for spatial correlation validation (CDL-C UMa)
**Time and frequency samples**
The number of temporal snapshots _N_ and frequency samples _M_ is shown in
Table C.3.4-1. The channel model specification is presented in Table C.3.4-2.
Table C.3.4-1: VNA settings for spatial correlation
+----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +======================+=====================+======================+ | Center frequency | MHz | Downlink centre | | | | frequency | | | | | | | | in Table C.3.1-1 | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | Span | MHz | 0 (Note 2) | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | RF output level | dBm | -15 | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | Number of traces | | 1000 | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | Distance between | Wavelength (Note 1) | > 2 | | traces in channel | | | | model | | | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | Number of points | | 1 (or the smallest | | | | possible) | | | | | | | | (Note 2) | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | Averaging | | 1 | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE1: Time in | | | | seconds = distance | | | | [λ] / MS speed | | | | [λ/s] | | | | | | | | MS speed [λ/s] = | | | | MS speed [m /s] / | | | | Speed of light | | | | [m/s] * Center | | | | frequency [Hz] | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Span and | | | | number of points may | | | | be increased to | | | | estimate reliably | | | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+
Table C.3.4-2: Channel model specification
+-----------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +=======================+============+===========================+ | Center frequency | MHz | Downlink centre frequency | | | | | | | | in Table C.3.1-1 | +-----------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Channel model samples | Wavelength | > 2000 | +-----------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Channel model | | As specified in Annex C.1 | +-----------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Mobile speed | km/h | 30 | +-----------------------+------------+---------------------------+
**Spatial samples**
The spatial samples for the correlation validation measurement are on the
circumference of the quiet zone, as illustrated in Figure C.3.4-4. The test
zone is a circle with 20 cm diameter in the horizontal plane. The reference
point (denoted by a red marker) is in AoA 270°. The mean AoAs of the CDL-C UMi
and CDL-C UMa models are slightly different, but the underlying geometry for
the CDL model indicates that the mean AoA (or assumed LoS direction) of the
model is 180°. The reference point orientation of the validation measurement
is proposed to be with 90° offset to the channel model reference AoA to enable
accurate sampling of the main lobe of the spatial correlation curve. The
reference point orientation must be defined in the channel model coordinate
system instead of the chamber/probe coordinate system to enable optimization
of OTA model implementation to achieve better alignment with the cluster AoAs
and probe directions. In order to have spatial samples that yield reasonable
measurement times and adequately capture the main lobe of the correlation
curve, a non-uniform sampling is used where the first quadrant i.e.,
270°-180°, is sampled with dense sampling compared to the rest of the circle.
The spacing of the spatial samples is summarized in Table C.3.4-3 for test
frequencies less than 1800 MHz and equal to or greater than 1800 MHz.
Table C.3.4-3: Spacing of Spatial Samples
Test Frequencies [MHz] First quadrant of test zone circumference
(270^o^-180^o^) Remaining quadrants
* * *
**617, 722, 836.5 1575.42** λ/15 λ/4 1800, 2132.50, 2450, 3600, 4700 λ/10 λ/2
{width="2.2083333333333335in" height="2.2816393263342083in"}
**Figure C.3.4-4: Test zone interpretation with Angle of Arrival reference
orientation**
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="2.6458333333333335in"}
Figure C.3.4-5: Spatial sampling for spatial correlation validation
measurement for test frequencies less than and equal to or greater than 1800
MHz: 617 MHz spatial sampling (left) and 4700 MHz spatial sampling (right).
**Reference Spatial Correlation Curves**
The spatial correlation validation reference curves are tabulated in Tables
C.3.4-4 and C.3.4-5 for CDL-C UMi and CDL-C UMa, respectively, for a
vertically polarized MPAC OTA setup with 16 uniformly spaced probes.
Table C.3.4-4: Spatial correlation reference curves for CDL-C UMi model for a
vertically polarized MPAC OTA setup with 16 uniformly spaced probes at FR1
test frequencies
Azim [°] \|ρ\| beam 1 Azim [°] \|ρ\| beam 1 Azim [°] \|ρ\| beam 1 Azim [°]
\|ρ\| beam 1 Azim [°] \|ρ\| beam 1
* * *
617 MHz 722 MHz 836.5 MHz 1575.42 MHz 1800 MHz  
270.0 1.00 270.0 1.00 270.0 1.00 270.0 1.00 270.0 1.00 251.4 1.00 254.1 1.00
256.3 1.00 262.7 1.00 260.9 1.00 232.9 1.00 238.3 1.00 242.6 1.00 255.5 1.00
251.7 1.00 214.3 0.99 222.4 1.00 228.9 1.00 248.2 1.00 242.6 0.99 195.8 0.99
206.6 0.99 215.2 0.99 240.9 0.99 233.5 0.99 110.4 0.87 190.7 0.98 201.6 0.98
233.7 0.99 224.3 0.98 40.8 0.87 120.5 0.84 187.9 0.96 226.4 0.99 215.2 0.97
331.2 0.98 61.1 0.80 128.7 0.82 219.1 0.98 206.0 0.95 1.6 0.91 77.3 0.73 211.9
0.97 196.9 0.92 302.1 0.99 26.0 0.81 204.6 0.96 187.8 0.87 334.7 0.95 197.3
0.94 134.3 0.39 283.3 1.00 190.0 0.91 88.6 0.15 182.8 0.87 43.0 0.24 152.7
0.66 357.3 0.62 125.5 0.44 311.6 0.94 98.2 0.30 71.0 0.28 43.7 0.37 16.5 0.54
349.2 0.75 321.9 0.91 294.7 0.99
Azim [°] \|ρ\| beam 1 Azim [°] \|ρ\| beam 1 Azim [°] \|ρ\| beam 1 Azim [°]
\|ρ\| beam 1  
2132.5 MHz 2450 MHz 3600 MHz 4700 MHz  
270.0 1.00 270.0 1.00 270.0 1.00 270.0 1.00  
261.9 1.00 263.0 1.00 265.2 1.00 266.3 1.00  
253.9 1.00 256.0 1.00 260.5 1.00 262.7 1.00  
245.8 0.99 249.0 0.99 255.7 0.99 259.0 0.99  
237.8 0.99 242.0 0.99 250.9 0.99 255.4 0.99  
229.7 0.98 234.9 0.99 246.1 0.99 251.7 0.99  
221.7 0.97 227.9 0.98 241.4 0.98 248.1 0.98  
213.6 0.96 220.9 0.97 236.6 0.98 244.4 0.98  
205.6 0.93 213.9 0.95 231.8 0.97 240.8 0.98  
197.5 0.89 206.9 0.92 227.1 0.97 237.1 0.97  
189.5 0.84 199.9 0.88 222.3 0.95 233.5 0.97  
181.4 0.77 192.9 0.83 217.5 0.93 229.8 0.96  
139.7 0.27 185.9 0.76 212.7 0.90 226.1 0.95  
99.5 0.14 144.9 0.19 208.0 0.86 222.5 0.93  
59.2 0.14 109.9 0.26 203.2 0.81 218.8 0.91  
18.9 0.26 74.8 0.37 198.4 0.75 215.2 0.87  
338.6 0.71 39.8 0.19 193.7 0.68 211.5 0.83  
298.4 0.97 4.7 0.29 188.9 0.59 207.9 0.78  
329.7 0.74 184.1 0.49 204.2 0.72  
294.6 0.97 156.1 0.23 200.6 0.64  
132.3 0.62 196.9 0.56  
108.4 0.85 193.3 0.47  
84.6 0.93 189.6 0.37  
60.7 0.92 185.9 0.27  
36.9 0.79 182.3 0.18  
13.0 0.42 161.7 0.51  
349.1 0.15 143.5 0.83  
325.3 0.60 125.2 0.95  
301.4 0.90 106.9 0.89  
277.6 1.00 88.6 0.80  
70.4 0.78  
52.1 0.88  
33.8 0.98  
15.5 0.91  
357.3 0.53  
339.0 0.09  
320.7 0.50  
302.4 0.82  
284.2 0.97
Table C.3.4-5: Spatial correlation reference curves for CDL-C UMa model for a
vertically polarized MPAC OTA setup with 16 uniformly spaced probes at FR1
test frequencies
Azim [°] \|ρ\| comb Azim [°] \|ρ\| comb Azim [°] \|ρ\| comb Azim [°] \|ρ\|
comb Azim [°] \|ρ\| comb
* * *
617 MHz 722 MHz 836.5 MHz 1575.42 MHz 1800 MHz  
270.0 1.00 270.0 1.00 270.0 1.00 270.0 1.00 270.0 1.00 251.4 0.99 254.1 0.99
256.3 0.99 262.7 0.99 260.9 0.99 232.9 0.99 238.3 0.98 242.6 0.98 255.5 0.98
251.7 0.96 214.3 0.98 222.4 0.97 228.9 0.97 248.2 0.96 242.6 0.93 195.8 0.96
206.6 0.96 215.2 0.96 240.9 0.94 233.5 0.90 110.4 0.61 190.7 0.94 201.6 0.95
233.7 0.92 224.3 0.89 40.8 0.47 120.5 0.58 187.9 0.92 226.4 0.91 215.2 0.88
331.2 0.85 61.1 0.30 128.7 0.56 219.1 0.90 206.0 0.87 1.6 0.56 77.3 0.19 211.9
0.89 196.9 0.84 302.1 0.95 26.0 0.27 204.6 0.88 187.8 0.79 334.7 0.70 197.3
0.87 134.3 0.16 283.3 0.99 190.0 0.84 88.6 0.30 182.8 0.79 43.0 0.22 152.7
0.42 357.3 0.36 125.5 0.13 311.6 0.57 98.2 0.30 71.0 0.31 43.7 0.29 16.5 0.33
349.2 0.29 321.9 0.48 294.7 0.88
Azim [°] \|ρ\| comb Azim [°] \|ρ\| comb Azim [°] \|ρ\| comb Azim [°] \|ρ\|
comb
* * *
2132.5 MHz 2450 MHz 3600 MHz 4700 MHz  
270.0 1.00 270.0 1.00 270.0 1.00 270.0 1.00 261.9 0.99 263.0 0.99 265.2 0.98
266.3 0.98 253.9 0.95 256.0 0.95 260.5 0.95 262.7 0.94 245.8 0.92 249.0 0.91
255.7 0.90 259.0 0.89 237.8 0.89 242.0 0.87 250.9 0.84 255.4 0.83 229.7 0.86
234.9 0.85 246.1 0.80 251.7 0.78 221.7 0.85 227.9 0.83 241.4 0.77 248.1 0.73
213.6 0.85 220.9 0.82 236.6 0.75 244.4 0.70 205.6 0.83 213.9 0.82 231.8 0.73
240.8 0.68 197.5 0.80 206.9 0.80 227.1 0.72 237.1 0.66 189.5 0.75 199.9 0.77
222.3 0.71 233.5 0.65 181.4 0.67 192.9 0.73 217.5 0.70 229.8 0.64 139.7 0.22
185.9 0.66 212.7 0.69 226.1 0.63 99.5 0.24 144.9 0.26 208.0 0.67 222.5 0.62
59.2 0.03 109.9 0.23 203.2 0.64 218.8 0.61 18.9 0.16 74.8 0.19 198.4 0.61
215.2 0.60 338.6 0.37 39.8 0.13 193.7 0.56 211.5 0.59 298.4 0.73 4.7 0.15
188.9 0.49 207.9 0.57 329.7 0.38 184.1 0.41 204.2 0.55 294.6 0.74 156.1 0.42
200.6 0.52 132.3 0.19 196.9 0.48 108.4 0.64 193.3 0.42 84.6 0.47 189.6 0.35
60.7 0.44 185.9 0.26 36.9 0.28 182.3 0.18 13.0 0.16 161.7 0.59 349.1 0.16
143.5 0.26 325.3 0.41 125.2 0.79 301.4 0.40 106.9 0.43 277.6 0.95 88.6 0.68
70.4 0.63 52.1 0.75 33.8 0.87 15.5 0.67 357.3 0.09 339.0 0.25 320.7 0.32 302.4
0.42 284.2 0.73
**Time Domain Alternative Method:**
Time domain techniques can also be used to validate the spatial correlation.
The spatial correlation validation measurement setup is illustrated in Figure
C.3.4-6. In this case a Signal generator transmits a CW signal through the
MIMO test system. The signal is received by a test antenna within the test
area. Finally, the signal is collected by a signal analyser and the measured
signal is stored for postprocessing.
{width="3.4472222222222224in" height="2.2736111111111112in"}
Figure C.3.4-6: Configuration for spatial correlation validation based on time
domain techniques
For each spatial point, the channel emulator should issue a trigger signal
each time fading is started. For each point collect a time domain trace with
the signal analyser, when done, stop fading. Data recording is synchronized
with the channel emulator trigger.
Follow the same procedure to postprocess the data and calcalate the spatial
correlation by setting _m_ to 1. The settings for the Signal Generator and
Signal Analyser are in Table C.3.4-6 and C.3.4-7 respectively.
> Table C.3.4-6: Signal Generator Settings
Item Unit Value
* * *
Centre frequency MHz Downlink centre frequency in Table C.3.1-1 Output power
dBm Function of the CE. Sufficiently above Noise Floor
> Table C.3.4-7: Signal Analyser Settings
Item Unit Value
* * *
Centre frequency MHz Downlink centre frequency in Table C.3.1-1 Sampling Hz At
least 15 times bigger than the max Doppler spread (_f~d~=v/λ)_ Observation
time s At least 16s. Channel Model length should be the same or greater than
the observation time.
**Beam-Simultaneous Block Diagram**
It is assumed that the beams are mapped to the inputs of the channel emulator
as follows:
\- Beam 1: Input 1 and Input 2
\- Beam 2: Input 3 and Input 4 (CDL-C UMa only)
{width="4.66400043744532in" height="1.3384733158355206in"}
Figure C.3.4-7: Configuration for spatial correlation validation based on time
domain techniques (CDL-C UMi)
{width="4.672000218722659in" height="1.3425535870516185in"}
Figure C.3.4-8: Configuration for spatial correlation validation based on time
domain techniques (CDL-C UMa)
## C.3.5 Cross-polarization
This measurement checks how well the measured vertically or horizontally
polarized power levels follow expected values. The test setup for cross-
polarization is the same as PDP validation in Figure C.3.2-1.
**Method of measurement:** Step the emulation and store traces from VNA.
VNA settings for cross-polarization measurements are presented in Table
C.3.5-1.
**Table C.3.5-1: VNA settings for cross-polarization measurements**
+------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +==================+======+===========================+ | Centre frequency | MHz | Downlink Centre Frequency | | | | | | | | in Table C.3.1-1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Span | MHz | 40 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of traces | | 1000 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of points | | 802 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Averaging | | 1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+
Channel model specification for cross-polarization measurements is presented
in Table C.3.5-2.
**Table C.3.5-2: Channel model specification for cross-polarization
measurements**
+-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +=======================+===================+=======================+ | Centre frequency | MHz | Downlink centre | | | | frequency | | | | | | | | in Table C.3.1-1 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Distance between | wavelength (Note) | > 2 | | traces in channel | | | | model | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Channel model | | As specified in Annex | | | | C.1 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Mobile speed (** | km/h | 30 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | NOTE: Time [s] = | | | | distance [λ] / MS | | | | speed [λ/s] | | | | | | | | MS speed [λ/s] = MS | | | | speed [m /s] / | | | | Speed of light | | | | [m/s] * Centre | | | | frequency [Hz] | | | | | | | | (** The mobile | | | | speed is valid for | | | | the Time Domain | | | | Alternative method | | | | only | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+
**Measurement Procedure:**
Step the emulation and store traces from VNA. i.e., run the emulation to CIR
number 1, pause, measure VNA trace, run the emulation to CIR number 10, pause,
measure VNA trace. Continue until 1000 VNA traces are measured.
a. Use a vertically polarized sleeve dipole to measure the V component.
b. Use a horizontally polarized (vertically oriented) magnetic loop dipole, or
a horizontally polarized sleeve dipole measured in four orthogonal horizontal
positions and summed to measure the H component.
**Method of measurement result analysis:**
Measured VNA traces (frequency responses $H_{V}(t,f)$ and $H_{H}\left( t,f
\right)$ are saved into a hard drive. The data is read into, e.g., Matlab. The
frequency responses are averaged in power over time and frequency and the V/H
ratio calculated as follows:
$$P_{V} = \sum_{t}^{}{\sum_{f}^{}\left| H_{V}(t,f) \right|^{2}}\text{\ \ }$$
$$P_{H} = \sum_{t}^{}{\sum_{f}^{}\left| H_{H}(t,f) \right|^{2}}\text{\ \ \ }$$
$$P_{V/H}\lbrack dB\rbrack = 10\log_{10}\left( \frac{P_{V}}{P_{H}} \right)$$
**Beam-Specific Block Diagram**
It is assumed that the beams are mapped to the inputs of the channel emulator
as follows:
\- Beam 1: Input 1 and Input 2
\- Beam 2: Input 3 and Input 4 (CDL-C UMa only)
{width="5.52in" height="1.1919991251093613in"}
Figure C.3.5-1: Setup for Beam-Specific V/H measurements (Beam 1)
{width="5.59200021872266in" height="0.936000656167979in"}
Figure C.3.5-2: Setup for Beam-Specific V/H measurements (Beam 2 CDL-C UMa
only)
**Time Domain Alternative Method:**
The power in the Vertical and Horizontal polarizations can also be measured in
time domain. The measurement setup for Beam-Specific are presented in Figures
C.3.5-3, and C.3.5-4.
{width="5.288000874890638in" height="1.096000656167979in"}
Figure C.3.5-3: Setup for Beam-Specific V/H measurements (Beam 1)
{width="5.2in" height="1.143999343832021in"}
Figure C.3.5-4: Setup for Beam-Specific V/H measurements (Beam 2 CDL-C UMa
only)
The instruments settings are the same as those in C.3.4-6 and C.3.4-7. The
measurement analysis is the same as that of the frequency domain method
setting the summation over _f_ to a single point.
The reference V/H-ratios for CDL-C UMa and CDL-C UMi channel model validation
are defined in table C.3.5-3 and C.3.5-4, respectively.
Table C.3.5-3: Reference V/H-ratios for CDL-C UMa
UMa C, fc ≤ 2.5 GHz Beam 1 Input 1+2: V/H = 0 dB
* * *
                         Beam 2   Input 3+4:  V/H = 0 dB
UMa C, fc > 2.5 GHz Beam 1 Input 1+2: V/H = 0 dB Beam 2 Input 3+4: V/H = 0 dB
Table C.3.5-4: Reference V/H-ratios for CDL-C UMi
UMi C, fc ≤ 2.5 GHz Beam 1 Inputs 1+2: V/H = 0 dB
* * *
UMi C, fc > 2.5 GHz Beam 1 Inputs 1+2: V/H = 0 dB
## C.3.6 Power validation
This measurement checks the total power in the centre of the test zone. The
power validation is measured with a spectrum analyser as shown in Figure
C.3.6-1.
{width="5.333333333333333in" height="1.9638888888888888in"}
Figure C.3.6-1: Setup for power validation measurements
Spectrum analyser settings for power validation measurements are presented in
Table C.3.6-1.
Table C.3.6-1: Spectrum analyser settings for power validation measurements
+-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +=========================+======+===========================+ | Centre frequency | MHz | Downlink centre frequency | | | | | | | | in Table C.3.1-2 | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Integrated Channel Span | Hz | 40MHz | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | RBW | Hz | 30 kHz | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | VBW | Hz | > ≥10MHz | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of points | | ≥400 | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Averaging | | ≥100 | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Detector | | RMS | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+
**Measurement Procedure:**
1\. Place a vertical reference dipole in the centre of the test zone connected
to a spectrum analyser (or power meter) via a cable.
2\. Record the cable and reference dipole gains.
3\. Load the target channel model into the channel emulator and play the
model.
4\. Start the NR FR1 signalling in the base station emulator with the required
parameter identical to the measurements conditions.
5\. Average the power received by the spectrum analyser for a sufficient
amount of time to account for the fading channel -- one full channel
simulation might be unnecessary.
6\. Repeat steps 1 to 4 with a magnetic loop for the horizontal polarization,
or a horizontally polarized sleeve dipole measured in at least four orthogonal
horizontal positions and average the summed orientations to get the H
component.
7\. Calculate the total power received at the test area as the sum of the
power in the two polarizations.
Note: in step 6, if horizontally polarized sleeve dipole is used, the
reference gain correction should be the average of the theta gain pattern cut
of the dipole. Besides, more horizontal positions for averaging will improve
the measurement accuracy but increase the total measurement time.
The power validation result is considered as systematic offset, which needs to
be corrected on the UE final sensitivity value to further reduce measurement
uncertainty.
The detailed power validation setup for CDL-C UMi and CDL-C UMa channel models
are illustrated in Figure C.3.6-2 and Figure C.3.6-3.
{width="5.263999343832021in" height="1.52in"}
Figure C.3.6-2: Setup for power validation measurements for CDL-C UMi
{width="5.342645450568679in" height="1.3279997812773403in"}
Figure C.3.6-3: Setup for power validation measurements for CDL-C UMa
# C.4 Validation Pass/fail limit
## C.4.1 General
This clause defines the pass/fail limit of FR1 MPAC system for FR1 channel
model validation.
## C.4.2 Pass/Fail Criteria of PDP
This clause defines the pass/fail criteria of PDP, this pass/fail limits apply
for all FR1 frequency bands, for both combined and individual beams.
The detailed pass/fail limits for each cluster of CDL-C UMa and CDL-C UMi are
defined in Table C.4.2-1.
Table C.4.2-1: PDP pass/fail limits for CDL-C UMa and CDL-C UMi channel model
validation
                            **Power Tolerance**   **Delay Tolerance**
* * *
Paths from 0dB to 10dB ±1dB ±6ns Paths from 10dB to 20dB ±2.5dB ±6ns Paths
from 20dB to 30dB ±5dB ±6ns Paths from 30dB to 40dB ±10dB ±6ns
## C.4.3 Pass/Fail Criteria of Doppler/Temporal correlation
This clause defines the pass/fail criteria of doppler/temporal correlation,
this pass/fail limits apply for all channel models in all FR1 frequency bands,
for both combined and individual beams.
The pass/fail limits for theoretical temporal correlation defined in Clause
C.3.3 above 0.3 are formed as bands of ±0.1 of correlation capped at 1 at the
high end. Additionally, when the theoretical temporal correlation drops below
0.3, the limits are formed at bands of ±0.3 of correlation capped at 0 at the
low end.
For the detailed pass/fail limits, the values are defined in the Table
C.4.3-1.
Table C.4.3-1: pass/fail limits for temporal correlation
CDL-C UMa beam 1 at ≤ 2.5 GHz CDL-C UMa beam 2 at ≤ 2.5 GHz CDL-C UMa beam 1
at > 2.5 GHz CDL-C UMa beam 2 at > 2.5 GHz CDL-C UMi beam 1 at ≤ 2.5 GHz CDL-C
UMi beam 1 at > 2.5 GHz
* * *
Lower Upper Lower Upper Lower Upper Lower Upper Lower Upper Lower Upper 0.9 1
0.9 1 0.9 1 0.9 1 0.9 1 0.9 1 0.886 1 0.874 1 0.885 1 0.873 1 0.895 1 0.895 1
0.845 1 0.807 1 0.842 1 0.804 1 0.882 1 0.882 1 0.782 0.982 0.732 0.932 0.774
0.974 0.725 0.925 0.862 1 0.861 1 0.701 0.901 0.676 0.876 0.687 0.887 0.665
0.865 0.836 1 0.835 1 0.609 0.809 0.638 0.838 0.589 0.789 0.623 0.823 0.806 1
0.805 1 0.513 0.713 0.595 0.795 0.486 0.686 0.575 0.775 0.772 0.972 0.771
0.971 0.418 0.618 0.523 0.723 0.386 0.586 0.499 0.699 0.734 0.934 0.734 0.934
0.33 0.53 0.425 0.625 0.294 0.494 0.396 0.596 0.693 0.893 0.693 0.893 0.253
0.453 0.326 0.526 0.215 0.415 0.291 0.491 0.65 0.85 0.649 0.849 0.189 0.389
0.26 0.46 0.152 0.352 0.219 0.419 0.605 0.805 0.604 0.804 0.14 0.34 0.235
0.435 0.106 0.306 0.19 0.39 0.559 0.759 0.558 0.758 0.104 0.304 0.22 0.42 0
0.3 0.173 0.373 0.514 0.714 0.512 0.712 0 0.3 0.187 0.387 0 0.3 0.139 0.339
0.469 0.669 0.468 0.668 0 0.3 0.133 0.333 0 0.3 0 0.3 0.427 0.627 0.425 0.625
0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0.387 0.587 0.385 0.585 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0.35
0.55 0.348 0.548 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0.317 0.517 0.315 0.515 0 0.3 0 0.3 0
0.3 0 0.3 0.287 0.487 0.285 0.485 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0.261 0.461 0.258
0.458 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0.237 0.437 0.235 0.435 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3
0.216 0.416 0.213 0.413 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0.196 0.396 0.193 0.393 0 0.3
0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0.177 0.377 0.174 0.374 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0.158 0.358
0.155 0.355 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0.139 0.339 0.136 0.336 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3
0 0.3 0.119 0.319 0.116 0.316 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3
0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3
0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3
0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3
0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3
0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3
0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3
0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3
0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3
0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3
0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3
0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.3
Based on the values defined in Table C.4.3-1, Figure C.4.3-1 shows the
pass/fail and reference curve of temporal correlation.
{width="3.173611111111111in" height="2.3680555555555554in"}
{width="3.201388888888889in" height="2.4027777777777777in"}
{width="3.201388888888889in" height="2.3958333333333335in"}
{width="3.1597222222222223in" height="2.3680555555555554in"}
{width="3.2222222222222223in" height="2.4305555555555554in"}
{width="3.1666666666666665in" height="2.375in"}
Figure C.4.3-1: Pass/fail limits and targets of Temporal correlation for CDL-C
UMa and CDL-C UMi channel model: red curve (reference), blue (upper limit) and
green (lower limit)
## C.4.4 Pass/Fail Criteria of Spatial correlation
This clause defines the pass/fail criteria of spatial correlation, this
general pass/fail limits principle apply for all channel models in all FR1
frequency bands, for both combined and individual beams.
The pass/fail limits for spatial correlation are formed as bands of ±10% of
correlation capped at 100% for the upper limit for target correlation defined
in clause C.3.4 of 35% (for CDL-C UMa \@3600MHz, this value is 65%) and above.
For target correlations below 35% (for CDL-C UMa \@3600MHz, this value is
65%), the band is widened to ±20% capped at 0%.
For the detailed pass/fail limits, the values are defined in the Table C.4.4-1
and Table C.4.4-2, for CDL-C UMi and CDL-C UMa channel model, respectively.
Table C.4.4-1: Spatial correlation pass/fail limits for CDL-C UMi channel
model
Lower Upper Lower Upper Lower Upper Lower Upper Lower Upper
* * *
617 MHz 722 MHz 836.5 MHz 1575.42 MHz 1880 MHz  
0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90
1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00
0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.89 1.00 0.89 1.00 0.89 1.00 0.89
1.00 0.89 1.00 0.89 1.00 0.88 1.00 0.88 1.00 0.88 1.00 0.89 1.00 0.88 1.00
0.74 0.94 0.74 0.94 0.86 1.00 0.89 1.00 0.87 1.00 0.70 0.90 0.70 0.90 0.72
0.92 0.88 1.00 0.85 1.00 0.81 1.00 0.63 0.83 0.87 1.00 0.82 1.00 0.89 1.00
0.71 0.91 0.86 1.00 0.77 0.97 0.85 1.00 0.84 1.00 0.29 0.49 0.90 1.00 0.81
1.00 0.00 0.35 0.77 0.97 0.04 0.44 0.56 0.76 0.52 0.72 0.34 0.54 0.84 1.00
0.10 0.50  
0.08 0.48  
0.27 0.47  
0.44 0.64  
0.65 0.85  
0.81 1.00  
0.89 1.00
Lower Upper Lower Upper Lower Upper Lower Upper  
2132.5 MHz 2450 MHz 3600 MHz 4700 MHz  
0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00  
0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00  
0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00  
0.89 1.00 0.89 1.00 0.89 1.00 0.89 1.00  
0.89 1.00 0.89 1.00 0.89 1.00 0.89 1.00  
0.88 1.00 0.89 1.00 0.89 1.00 0.89 1.00  
0.87 1.00 0.88 1.00 0.88 1.00 0.88 1.00  
0.86 1.00 0.87 1.00 0.88 1.00 0.88 1.00  
0.83 1.00 0.85 1.00 0.87 1.00 0.88 1.00  
0.79 0.99 0.82 1.00 0.87 1.00 0.87 1.00  
0.74 0.94 0.78 0.98 0.85 1.00 0.87 1.00  
0.67 0.87 0.73 0.93 0.83 1.00 0.86 1.00  
0.07 0.47 0.66 0.86 0.80 1.00 0.85 1.00  
0 0.34 0.00 0.39 0.76 0.96 0.83 1.00  
0 0.34 0.06 0.46 0.71 0.91 0.81 1.00  
0.06 0.46 0.27 0.47 0.65 0.85 0.77 0.97  
0.61 0.81 0.00 0.39 0.58 0.78 0.73 0.93  
0.87 1.00 0.09 0.49 0.49 0.69 0.68 0.88  
0.64 0.84 0.39 0.59 0.62 0.82  
0.87 1.00 0.03 0.43 0.54 0.74  
0.52 0.72 0.46 0.66  
0.75 0.95 0.37 0.57  
0.83 1.00 0.27 0.47  
0.82 1.00 0.07 0.47  
0.69 0.89 0.00 0.38  
0.32 0.52 0.41 0.61  
0.00 0.35 0.73 0.93  
0.50 0.70 0.85 1.00  
0.80 1.00 0.79 0.99  
0.90 1.00 0.70 0.90  
0.68 0.88  
0.78 0.98  
0.88 1.00  
0.81 1.00  
0.43 0.63  
0.00 0.29  
0.40 0.60  
0.72 0.92  
0.87 1.00
**Table C.4.4-2: Spatial correlation pass/fail limits for CDL-C UMa channel
model**
Lower Upper Lower Upper Lower Upper Lower Upper Lower Upper
* * *
617 MHz 722 MHz 836.5 MHz 1575.42 MHz 1800 MHz  
0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.89 1.00 0.89 1.00 0.89
1.00 0.89 1.00 0.89 1.00 0.89 1.00 0.88 1.00 0.88 1.00 0.88 1.00 0.86 1.00
0.88 1.00 0.87 1.00 0.87 1.00 0.86 1.00 0.83 1.00 0.86 1.00 0.86 1.00 0.86
1.00 0.84 1.00 0.80 1.00 0.51 0.71 0.84 1.00 0.85 1.00 0.82 1.00 0.79 0.99
0.37 0.57 0.48 0.68 0.82 1.00 0.81 1.00 0.78 0.98 0.75 0.95 0.20 0.40 0.46
0.66 0.80 1.00 0.77 0.97 0.46 0.66 0.09 0.29 0.79 0.99 0.74 0.94 0.85 1.00
0.17 0.37 0.78 0.98 0.69 0.89 0.60 0.80 0.77 0.97 0.00 0.36 0.89 1.00 0.74
0.94 0.10 0.50 0.69 0.89 0.02 0.42 0.32 0.52 0.26 0.46 0.00 0.33 0.47 0.67
0.10 0.50  
0.11 0.51  
0.09 0.49  
0.13 0.53  
0.09 0.49  
0.38 0.58  
0.78 0.98
Lower Upper Lower Upper Lower Upper Lower Upper  
2132.5 MHz 2450 MHz 3600 MHz 4700 MHz  
0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00 0.90 1.00  
0.89 1.00 0.89 1.00 0.88 1.00 0.88 1.00  
0.86 1.00 0.85 1.00 0.85 1.00 0.84 1.00  
0.83 1.00 0.81 1.00 0.80 1.00 0.79 0.99  
0.80 1.00 0.77 0.97 0.74 0.94 0.73 0.93  
0.79 0.99 0.75 0.95 0.70 0.90 0.68 0.88  
0.78 0.98 0.73 0.93 0.67 0.87 0.63 0.83  
0.77 0.97 0.72 0.92 0.65 0.85 0.60 0.80  
0.74 0.94 0.72 0.92 0.63 0.83 0.58 0.78  
0.69 0.89 0.70 0.90 0.62 0.82 0.56 0.76  
0.00 0.36 0.67 0.87 0.61 0.81 0.55 0.75  
0.10 0.50 0.63 0.83 0.60 0.80 0.54 0.74  
0.02 0.42 0.56 0.76 0.59 0.79 0.53 0.73  
0.26 0.46 0.06 0.46 0.57 0.77 0.52 0.72  
0.47 0.67 0.03 0.43 0.44 0.84 0.51 0.71  
0.90 1.00 0.00 0.39 0.41 0.81 0.50 0.70  
0.89 1.00 0.00 0.33 0.36 0.76 0.49 0.69  
0.86 1.00 0.00 0.35 0.29 0.69 0.47 0.67  
0.28 0.48 0.21 0.61 0.45 0.65  
0.64 0.84 0.22 0.62 0.42 0.62  
0.00 0.49 0.38 0.58  
0.44 0.84 0.32 0.52  
0.27 0.67 0.15 0.55  
0.24 0.64 0.06 0.46  
0.08 0.58 0.00 0.38  
0.00 0.46 0.49 0.69  
0.00 0.46 0.06 0.46  
0.21 0.61 0.69 0.89  
0.20 0.60 0.33 0.53  
0.85 1.00 0.58 0.78  
0.53 0.73  
0.65 0.85  
0.77 0.97  
0.57 0.77  
0.00 0.29  
0.05 0.45  
0.12 0.52  
0.32 0.52  
0.63 0.83
## C.4.5 Pass/Fail Criteria of Cross-polarization
This clause defines the pass/fail criteria of cross-polarization, this
pass/fail limits apply for all channel models in all FR1 frequency bands, for
both combined and individual beams.
The cross-polarization ratio pass/fail limit is specified as ±1dB.
## C.4.6 Pass/Fail Criteria of Power validation
This clause defines the pass/fail criteria of power validation, this pass/fail
limit applies to all channel models in all FR1 frequency bands.
The power validation pass/fail limit is specified as ± 1.5 dB.
###### ## Annex D (normative): \
# D.1 FR2 Channel models
The following channel model is required for FR2 MIMO OTA measurement.
The generic model is Table D.1-1 FR2 UMi CDL-C, which does not include base
station antenna filtering. Therefore, in addition, the BS beam filtering
effect defined in Annex D.2 also apply when emulating the channel models.
Table D.1-1: Channel model parameters for UMi CDL-C at 28 GHz
* * *
Cluster # Absolute Delay [ns] Power in [dB] AOD in [°] AOA in [°] ZOD in [°]
ZOA in [°] 1 0 -4.4215 -30.4353 -134.4434 98.9242 83.3318 2 12.594 -1.25
-20.9269 129.1633 99.1915 72.5229 3 13.314 -3.4684 -20.9269 129.1633 99.1915
72.5229 4 13.974 -5.2294 -20.9269 129.1633 99.1915 72.5229 5 13.056 -2.5215
-28.0782 -152.8206 99.5732 71.1282 6 38.196 0 -11.6982 164.1145 99.306 74.7544
7 38.688 -2.2185 -11.6982 164.1145 99.306 74.7544 8 39.36 -3.9794 -11.6982
164.1145 99.306 74.7544 9 39.504 -7.4215 17.3861 84.3647 100.4513 69.2454 10
47.61 -7.1215 -37.5865 92.0623 98.5616 66.7349 11 49.278 -10.7215 20.2226
-97.7585 100.6231 72.0348 12 56.016 -11.1215 -50.6106 78.4702 98.218 64.4337
13 73.71 -5.1215 -33.911 93.1719 100.165 85.4238 14 78.498 -6.8215 -37.5066
-112.0441 100.2604 64.1548 15 130.224 -8.7215 -43.1797 102.4645 98.1225
64.7824 16 162.63 -13.2215 29.2116 67.2359 100.2604 92.467 17 255.534 -13.9215
27.8133 34.5731 98.4852 65.6889 18 276.018 -13.9215 23.6584 48.5813 98.1416
68.7572 19 329.412 -15.8215 -52.5282 36.4455 97.9698 59.1339 20 336.462
-17.1215 25.0168 52.6729 100.7376 65.3402 21 378.39 -16.0215 25.4562 49.8296
98.1225 58.4365 22 398.244 -15.7215 30.7697 46.4316 98.1034 65.2705 23 422.562
-21.6215 35.9234 30.759 100.4513 62.6903 24 519.138 -22.8215 -61.2775 69.2469
100.9476 61.993 Per-Cluster Parameters  
Parameter CASD in [°] CASA in [°] CZSD in [°] CZSA in [°] XPR in [dB]  
Value 0.799 10.4021 0.5726 4.8814 7
* * *
# D.2 FR2 Base Station beam configuration
The emulated BS beam configuration to be used for emulation of channel model
defined in Annex D.1 is specified in this clause.
The Base Station beam configuration includes basic antenna parameters and
beamforming characteristic. The basic BS antenna parameters is defined in
Table D.2-1.
Table D.2-1: FR2 BS Antenna Parameters
Parameter description Symbol Parameter value
* * *
                                                         FR2
Antenna panels in vertical dimension _M~g~_ 1 Antenna panels in horizontal
dimension _N~g~_ 1 Elements per panel in vertical dimension _M~e~_ 8 Elements
per panel in horizontal dimension _N~e~_ 16 Number of polarizations per panel
_P_ 2 Element spacing in horizontal dimension (λ) _d~H~_ 0.5 Element spacing
in vertical dimension (λ) _d~V~_ 0.5
Antenna element radiation patterns, including orientation of the element main
polarization components as well as orientation of the antenna array are as in
the example pattern in Table 7.3-1 of TR 38.901. The antenna element has ±45°
polarization components and the radiation pattern parameters are θ~3dB~ = 65°,
φ~3dB~ = 65°, A~max~ = 30dB, SLAv = 30dB, _G~E,max~_ =8 dBi.
The beamforming characteristic of the FR2 BS pattern is defined as follow:
\- A code book of 128 fixed beams is constructed to a grid of eight elevation
angles from --25° to +25° with \~7.1° step size and 16° azimuth angles from
--60° to +60° with 8° step size；
\- 1 strongest transmitting beam is generated from BS, the direction of this
beam towards the strongest cluster of the FR2 channel model. Specifically, the
direction in UMi CDL-C model is: AoD: -12^o^, ZoD: 100.71^.^
# D.3 FR2 Channel model validation
## D.3.1 General
This clause describes the FR2 MIMO OTA validation measurements, in order to
ensure that the channel models are correctly implemented and hence capable of
generating the propagation environment, as described by the model, within the
test zone of the 3D-MPAC system.
The following measurements shall be done for FR2 channel model validation:
\- Power Delay Profile (PDP)
\- Doppler/Temporal correlation
\- PAS similarity percentage (PSP)
\- Cross-polarization
\- Power validation
Frequencies to be used to test for FR2 channel model validation:
Table D.3.1-1: FR2 Channel model validation frequencies
NR FR2 Bands Range Test Frequency (MHz)
* * *
n257 Low 27750 n260 High 38500 n258 Low 25875 n261 Low 27925
## D.3.2 FR2 Power Delay Profile (PDP)
This measurement checks that the resulting power delay profile (PDP) is in-
line with the PDP defined for the channel model. For PDP validation
measurement, only Vertical validation is required.
The PDP measurement is performed with a Vector Network Analyser (VNA). An
example setup for PDP measurement is shown in Figure D.3.2-1. VNA transmits
frequency sweep signals thorough the NR MIMO OTA test system. A reference
antenna, within the centre of the test zone, receives the signal and VNA
analyses the frequency response of the system. A number of traces (frequency
responses) are measured and recorded by VNA and analysed by a post processing
SW, e.g., Matlab. Special care has to be taken into account to keep the fading
conditions unchanged, i.e. frozen, during the short period of time of a single
trace measurement. The fading may proceed only in between traces.
{width="5.215277777777778in" height="2.0in"}
Figure D.3.2-1: Setup for PDP measurements (FR2)
Step the emulation and store traces from VNA. I.e. run the emulation to CIR
number 1, pause, measure VNA trace, run the emulation to CIR number 10, pause,
measure VNA trace. Continue until 1000 VNA traces are measured.
**VNA settings:**
Table D.3.2-1: VNA settings for FR2 PDP measurements
+------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +==================+======+===========================+ | Centre frequency | MHz | Downlink centre frequency | | | | | | | | in Table D.3.1-1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Span | MHz | 200 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of traces | | 1000 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of points | | 1101 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Averaging | | 1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+
**Channel model specification:**
Table D.3.2-2: Channel model specification for FR2 PDP measurements
+-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +=======================+===================+=======================+ | Centre frequency | MHz | Downlink centre | | | | frequency | | | | | | | | in Table D.3.1-1 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Distance between | wavelength (Note) | > 2 | | traces in channel | | | | model | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Channel model | | As specified in Annex | | | | D.1 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | NOTE: Time [s] = | | | | distance [λ] / MS | | | | speed [λ/s] | | | | | | | | MS speed [λ/s] = MS | | | | speed [m/s] / Speed | | | | of light [m/s] * | | | | Centre frequency | | | | [Hz] | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+
**Method of measurement result analysis:**
Measured VNA traces (frequency responses H(t,f)) are saved into a hard drive.
The data is read into, e.g., Matlab.\ The analysis is performed by taking the
Fourier transform of each trace. The resulting impulse responses h(t,τ) are
averaged in power over time:
Finally, the resulting PDP is shifted in delay, such that the first tap is on
delay zero.
The detailed PDP reference value for FR2 CDL-C UMi validation are defined in
the following table:
Table D.3.2-3: PDP Targets for FR2 CDL-C UMi
Combined Clusters index Delay(ns) Power(dB)
* * *
1 0 -27.8 2-5 15 -18.3 6-11 40 0.0 13-14 75 -31.2
## D.3.3 FR2 Doppler/Temporal correlation
This measurement checks the Doppler/temporal correlation. For Doppler/Temporal
correlation validation measurement, only Vertical validation is required.
The Doppler spectrum is measured with a spectrum analyser as shown in Figure
D.3.3-1. In this case a signal generator transmits CW signal through the NR
MIMO OTA test system. The signal is received by a test antenna within the test
area. Finally, the signal is analysed by a spectrum analyser and the measured
spectrum is compared to the target spectrum. This setup can be used to measure
Doppler Spectrum of the Channel models defined in Annex D.2.
**Method of measurement:**
{width="4.506944444444445in" height="1.7916666666666667in"}
Figure D.3.3-1: Setup for FR2 Doppler measurements
Sine wave (CW, carrier wave) signal is transmitted from the signal generator.
The signal is connected from the signal generator to fading emulator via
cables. The fading emulator output signals are connected to frequency
converter and power amplifier boxes via cables. The amplified signals are then
transferred via cables to the probe antennas. The probe antennas radiate the
signals over the air to the test antenna The Doppler spectrum is measured by
the spectrum analyser and the trace is saved.
**Signal generator settings:**
Table D.3.3-1: Signal generator settings for FR2 Doppler/Temporal correlation
measurements
+------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +==================+======+===========================+ | Centre frequency | MHz | Downlink centre frequency | | | | | | | | in Table D.3.1-1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Modulation | | OFF | +------------------+------+---------------------------+
**Spectrum analyser settings:**
Table D.3.3-2: Spectrum analyser settings for FR2 Doppler/Temporal correlation
measurements
+------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +==================+======+===========================+ | Centre frequency | MHz | Downlink centre frequency | | | | | | | | in Table D.3.1-1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Minimum Span | Hz | 4 kHz | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | RBW | Hz | 1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | VBW | Hz | 1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of points | | 16002 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Averaging | | 100 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+
**Channel model specification:**
Table D.3.3-3: Channel model specification for FR2 Doppler/Temporal
correlation measurements
+------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +==================+======+===========================+ | Centre frequency | MHz | Downlink centre frequency | | | | | | | | in Table D.3.1-1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Channel model | | As specified in Annex D.1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Mobile speed | km/h | 3 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+
Method of measurement result analysis: Measurement data file (Doppler power
spectrum) is saved into hard drive. The data is read into, e.g., Matlab. The
analysis is performed by taking the Fourier transformation of the Doppler
spectrum. The resulting temporal correlation function is normalized such that
max(abs(_R~t~_(∆ _t_)))=1. Then the function values left from the maximum is
cut out. Further on the function values after, e.g. seven periods is cut out.
The detailed Temporal correlation reference value for FR2 CDL-C UMi channel
model validation is defined is table D.3.3-4.
Table D.3.3-4: Temporal correlation Targets
Distance [λ] X2V Corr. Distance [λ] X2V Corr.
* * *
0 1.0000 2.5 0.1769 0.1 0.9929 2.6 0.1717 0.2 0.9717 2.7 0.1649 0.3 0.9379 2.8
0.1564 0.4 0.8937 2.9 0.1456 0.5 0.8414 3 0.1327 0.6 0.7834 3.1 0.1177 0.7
0.7223 3.2 0.1011 0.8 0.6601 3.3 0.0829 0.9 0.5986 3.4 0.0638 1 0.5387 3.5
0.0449 1.1 0.4817 3.6 0.0272 1.2 0.4284 3.7 0.0121 1.3 0.3796 3.8 0.0023 1.4
0.3362 3.9 0.0079 1.5 0.2984 4 0.0104 1.6 0.2667 4.1 0.0083 1.7 0.2416 4.2
0.0026 1.8 0.2221 4.3 0.0095 1.9 0.2081 4.4 0.0235 2 0.1987 4.5 0.0397 2.1
0.1921 4.6 0.0572 2.2 0.1879 4.7 0.0738 2.3 0.1844 4.8 0.0890 2.4 0.1812 4.9
0.1018 5 0.1109
**Time Domain Alternate Method**
Time domain techniques can also be used to validate the tempoal correlation.
The temporal correlation validation measurement setup is illustrated in Figure
D.3.3-2. In this case a Signal generator transmits a CW signal through the
MIMO test system. The signal is received by a test antenna within the test
area. Finally, the signal is collected by a signal analyser and the measured
signal is stored as IQ data format for postprocessing.
{width="4.715277777777778in" height="1.7361111111111112in"}
Figure D.3.3-2: Setup for Doppler measurements based on time domain technique
The time domain doppler spectrum is measured by the signal analyzer and the
trace in IQ format is saved. Follow the same procedure to post process the
data and calculate the temporal correlation curve. Data recording is
synchronized with the channel emulator trigger.
The settings for the signal analyzer are in Table D.3.3-5:
> Table D.3.3-5: Signal Analyser Settings
Item Unit Value
* * *
Centre frequency MHz Downlink centre frequency in Table D.3.1-1 Sampling Hz At
least 15 times bigger than the max Doppler spread (_f~d~=v/λ)_ Observation
time s At least 16s. Channel Model length should be the same or greater than
the observation time.
## D.3.4 FR2 PAS similarity percentage (PSP)
The PSP validation measurements aim at evaluating PAS similarity percentage
(PSP), which is one of the validation metrics for characterizing FR2 channel
model under test in the quite zone of 3D-MPAC. For PSP validation measurement,
only vertical polarization validation is required.
_The measurement array is essentially a virtual array configuration realized
in 3D-MPAC through a φ-θ positioning system. The measurement array is a semi-
circle and sectored array configuration illustrated in Figure D.3.4-1 where
complex channel frequency response is measured at each antenna location 0.5 λ
apart using a vector network analyser (VNA) setup._ The vertical sectors of
the measurement array are limited to 60° (±30°) and the horizontal sector to
180° (±90°) with the broad side direction points towards the probes. Depending
of the turntable architecture/implementation, the virtual array configuration
for the PSP validation is composed of two alternative semi-circle arrangements
(1 x horizontal and either 2 x crossed vertical or 2 x parallel vertical). The
radius of the array element locations with respect to the centre of the test
zone is 5 cm, which is equivalent to the half of the test zone radius at 28
GHz. For different frequency bands, the radius of the measurement array
sectored semi-circles remains fixed at 5 cm while the spatial sampling of the
array varies. _This measurement validates the proper angular behaviour in the
test zone._
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="2.5347222222222223in"}
Figure D.3.4-1: Semi-circle measurement array configurations with K = 37
elements (at 28 GHz). On the left with two crossed vertical sectors, on the
right with two parallel vertical sectors.
{width="5.0in" height="1.8819444444444444in"}
Figure D.3.4-2: Setup for FR2 PSP validation measurements
The PSP validation is measured with a vector network analyser as shown in
Figure D.3.4-2 illustrating the PSP measurement setup. Port 1 of the VNA
transmits signals through the fading emulator and radiate them through _L_
probes within the anechoic chamber. The radiated signals are then received at
the test antenna that is positioned inside the test zone. The test antenna is
mounted on a φ-θ positioner which is capable of moving the antenna to pre-
defined spatial locations on a fixed radius from the centre of the quiet zone
according the measurement array configuration. Finally, the signal is received
at port 2 of the VNA. The most suitable approach for the PSP validation is
based on an omnidirectional antenna (omnidirectional pattern in AZ and wide BW
in EL) as the test can be automated easily. Alternatively, a directional
antenna could be used but requires frequent re-positioning.
The measurement and analysis procedure are given as follows:
> 1\. Set the target channel model in the Channel Emulator.
>
> 2\. For each position of the test antenna on the measurement array
> configuration in the test zone, step & pause the emulator to different time
> instances. Measure the complex frequency responses $H\left( f,t \right) =
> H\left( m\mathrm{\Delta}f,n\mathrm{\Delta}T \right),\ m = 0,...,\ M - 1$ for
> all stepped channel snapshots$\ n = 0,...,\ N - 1$ , where the interval
> between frequency and time samples is$\ \mathrm{\Delta}f$ and$\
> \mathrm{\Delta}T$, respectively. The number of channel snapshots $N$ and
> frequency samples $M$.
>
> 3\. Move the measurement antenna with a positioner to another location $k$
> and repeat step 2 to record frequency responses
> $H_{k}(m\mathrm{\Delta}f,n\mathrm{\Delta}T)$ of all stepped channel
> snapshots.
>
> 4\. Repeat step 3 to record frequency responses at all$\ k = 0,...,\ K$
> spatial sample points.
>
> 5\. Estimate the measured PAS through the following two- stage processing:
>
> a. In the first stage, calculate the discrete azimuth and elevation angles
> (DoA) for the measurement array configuration by applying the MUSIC
> algorithm. Estimate the powers from the DoA and auto-covariance matrix of
> the received signal acquired through VNA complex frequency response data.
>
> i) Compose an estimate of the covariance matrix $\mathbf{R}_{H} \in C^{K
> \times K}$. The entry on the $k$th row and $k'$th column of $\mathbf{R}_{H}$
> is
$$R_{H}\left( k,k' \right) = \sum_{n = 1}^{N}{\sum_{m = 1}^{M}{H_{k}\left(
m\mathrm{\Delta}f,n\mathrm{\Delta}T \right)\ \overline{H_{k'}}\left(
m\mathrm{\Delta}f,n\mathrm{\Delta}T \right)}},$$
> where $\left( \overline{} \right)$ is the complex conjugate operator.
>
> ii) Compose pseudo-PAS of the chamber environment and channel model using
> the MUSIC algorithm. The intention of this step is to estimate DoAs of
> signals radiated by probes. Perform first the eigen decomposition of
> $\mathbf{R}_{H}$ and pick the noise-subspace matrix $\mathbf{V}$. The matrix
> $\mathbf{V}$ is obtained from the eigen decomposition by removing
> eigenvectors, i.e. columns, that correspond to _X_ strongest eigenvalues,
> where _X_ is the number of active probes in the MPAC setup. The pseudo-PAS
> is [9]
$$P_{\text{MUSIC}}\left( \beta \right) = \frac{1}{\mathbf{\omega}\left( \beta
\right)\mathbf{\text{\ V}}\mathbf{V}^{H}\ \mathbf{\omega}^{H}\left( \beta
\right)}\ ,$$
> where $\left( \right)^{H}$ is the matrix Hermitean operator and the near-
> field array factor of the virtual array composed by _K_ spatial measurement
> antenna locations is
$$\mathbf{\omega}\left( \beta \right) = \frac{\lambda_{0}}{4\pi\left\|
{\overrightarrow{r}}_{k} - R\ \overrightarrow{u}\left( \beta \right)
\right\|}\exp\left( \frac{j2\pi\left\| {\overrightarrow{r}}_{k} - R\
\overrightarrow{u}\left( \beta \right) \right\|}{\lambda_{0}} \right),$$
> where $\lambda_{0}$ is the wavelength at the carrier centre frequency,
> $\left\| \right\|$ is the norm of a vector, ${\overrightarrow{r}}_{k}$ is a
> location vector of the _k_ th virtual array element,
> $\overrightarrow{u}\left( \beta \right)$ is the unit vector to direction
> $\beta$, and _R_ is the a priori known approximate range length [9]. Both
> vectors ${\overrightarrow{r}}_{k}$ and $\overrightarrow{u}\left( \beta
> \right)$ are defined with respect to same origin, which is the centre of the
> test zone.
>
> iii) Find local maxima of $P_{\text{MUSIC}}\left( \beta \right)$ and pick
> directions $\beta_{x}$, $x = 1,\ldots,X$ of the _X_ highest peaks.
>
> iv) Perform Bartlett beamforming as defined in step 6 with the steering
> vector $\mathbf{\omega}\left( \beta_{x} \right)$ (instead of $a(\beta)$) to
> the _X_ directions identified in iii). The output is _X_ power estimates
> $P_{\text{est}}\left( \beta_{x} \right)$.
>
> b. In the second stage, use the angle and power estimates, i.e. the discrete
> PAS of _X_ azimuth and elevation directions and power values in conjunction
> with a 4x4 DUT sampling array for beamforming with the conventional Bartlett
> beamformer to estimate the "measured PAS seen by DUT" for PSP calculation.
> This is
$${\widehat{P}}_{o}\left( \beta \right) = a^{H}\left( \beta \right)\left(
\sum_{x = 1}^{X}{a\left( \beta_{x} \right)P_{\text{est}}\left( \beta_{x}
\right)a^{H}\left( \beta_{x} \right)} \right)a\left( \beta \right),$$
> where $a(\beta)$ is the array steering vector of the 4x4 DUT array.
>
> 6\. Evaluate the reference OTA PAS for the 4x4 DUT array by applying the
> conventional Bartlett beamformer. The theoretical PAS as reference is
> calculated for the ideal channel model as
$${\widehat{P}}_{r}\left( \beta \right) = a^{H}\left( \beta \right)\ \oint
a(\acute{\beta)}\ P(\acute{\beta)}a^{H}(\acute{\beta)}d\acute{\beta}\text{\
a}\left( \beta \right),$$
> where $a(\beta)$ is the array steering vector of the 4x4 DUT array and
> $P(\acute{\beta)}$ is the PAS of the reference channel model.
>
> 7\. Calculate total variation distance (_D_ ~p~) from the reference and
> measured PAS. Mathematically,
>
> {width="2.1597222222222223in" height="0.3958333333333333in"}
>
> 8\. Calculate PSP values as PSP = (1-_D~p~_) x 100%.
>
> **VNA settings:**
>
> Table D.3.4-1: VNA settings for FR2 PSP measurements
+------------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +==============================+======+===========================+ | Centre frequency | MHz | Downlink centre frequency | | | | | | | | in Table D.3.1-1 | +------------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Span | MHz | 0, or the minimum | | | | | | | | (Note 1) | +------------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of traces | | 1000 | +------------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of points | | 1 (Note 1) | +------------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | NOTE 1: Span and number of | | | | points may be increased to | | | | estimate reliably. | | | +------------------------------+------+---------------------------+
**Channel model specification:**
> Table D.3.4-2: Channel model specification for FR2 PSP measurements
+-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +=======================+===================+=======================+ | Centre frequency | MHz | Downlink centre | | | | frequency | | | | | | | | in Table D.3.1-1 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Distance between | wavelength (Note) | > 2 | | traces in channel | | | | model | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Channel model | | As specified in Annex | | | | D.1 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | NOTE: Time [s] = | | | | distance [λ] / MS | | | | speed [λ/s] | | | | | | | | MS speed [λ/s] = MS | | | | speed [m/s] / Speed | | | | of light [m/s] * | | | | Centre frequency | | | | [Hz] | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+
**Time Domain Alternative Method:**
PSP validation can also be implemented using time-domain techniques using the
testing setup presented in Figure D.3.4-3. The VNA is substituted by a signal
generator, and a signal analyser.
{width="4.388888888888889in" height="1.8317771216097987in"}
Figure D.3.4-3: Setup for FR2 PSP validation measurements based on time domain
> Table D.3.4-3: Signal Generator Settings for FR2 PSP measurements based on
> time domain
Item Unit Value
* * *
Centre frequency MHz Downlink centre frequency in Table D.3.1-1 Output power
dBm Function of the CE. Sufficiently above Noise Floor
> Table D.3.4-4: Signal Analyser Settings for FR2 PSP measurements based on
> time domain
Item Unit Value
* * *
Centre frequency MHz Downlink centre frequency in Table D.3.1-1 Sampling Hz At
least 10 times bigger than the max Doppler spread (_f~d~=v/λ)_ Observation
time s At least 32s
The measurement and analysis procedure are given as follows:
Follow the same procedure as before, but _M_ is set to 1. The Channel Emulator
is not stepped, but it is allowed to play in free run mode for each of the _K_
spatial points.
## D.3.5 FR2 Cross-polarization
This measurement checks how well the measured vertically or horizontally
polarized power levels follow expected values. The test setup for cross-
polarization is the same as PDP validation in Figure D.3.2-1.
**Method of measurement:** Step the emulation and store traces from VNA.
**VNA settings:**
Table D.3.5-1: VNA settings for FR2 cross-polarization
+------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +==================+======+===========================+ | Centre frequency | MHz | Downlink Centre Frequency | | | | | | | | in Table D.3.1-1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Span | MHz | 40 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of traces | | 1000 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of points | | 802 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Averaging | | 1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+
**Channel model specification:**
Table D.3.5-2: Channel model specification for FR2 cross-polarization.
+-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +=======================+===================+=======================+ | Centre frequency | MHz | Downlink centre | | | | frequency | | | | | | | | in Table D.3.1-1 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Distance between | wavelength (Note) | > 2 | | traces in channel | | | | model | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Channel model | | As specified in Annex | | | | D.1 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Mobile speed | km/h | 30 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | NOTE: Time [s] = | | | | distance [λ] / MS | | | | speed [λ/s] | | | | | | | | MS speed [λ/s] = MS | | | | speed [m /s] / | | | | Speed of light | | | | [m/s] * Centre | | | | frequency [Hz] | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+
**Measurement Procedure:**
1\. Play or step through the channel model listed in Annex D.1.
2\. Measure the absolute power received at the centre of the test zone,
averaged over a statistically significant number of fades.
a. Perform separate V-polarization and H-polarization measurements
sequentially, e.g., by rotating a single-polarized horn antenna accordingly or
with a use of a dual-polarized horn where the un-used polarization is
terminated.
b. Measure input 1+2 first and then enable input at a time to measure input 1
and 2 separately
c. Disable all CE outputs and enable one output at a time. Get the VNA trace
pointing the measurement horn antenna towards the active probe. Record
frequency sweeps through the channel model. Repeat for all the probes.
3\. Calculate the V/H ratio.
\- Measure VNA traces (frequency responses over time and probes
$H_{V}(t,f,k_{V})$ and $H_{H}\left( t,f,k_{H} \right)$ are saved into a hard
drive. The data is read into, e.g., Matlab. The frequency responses are summed
in power over time $t$, frequency _f_ and probes $k$ and the V/H ratio
calculated as follows:
$$P_{V} = \sum_{t}^{}{\sum_{f}^{}{\sum_{k_{V}}^{}\left| H_{V}(t,f,k_{V})
\right|}^{2}}\text{\ \ }$$
$$P_{H} = \sum_{t}^{}{\sum_{f}^{}{\sum_{k_{H}}^{}\left| H_{H}(t,f,k_{H})
\right|}^{2}}\text{\ \ \ }$$
$$P_{V/H}\lbrack\text{dB}\rbrack = 10\log_{10}\left( \frac{P_{V}}{P_{H}}
\right)$$
4\. Compare it with the theory value.
**Reference target for FR2 CDL-C UMi:**
\- V/H FR2 CDL-C-UMi, X2+, fc=28 GHz
\- Beam 1, Input 1: V/H = -0.45 dB
\- Beam 1, Input 2: V/H = 0.49 dB
\- Beam 1, Input 1+2: V/H = 0 dB
## D.3.6 FR2 Power validation
This measurement checks the total power in the centre of the test zone. The
power validation is measured with a spectrum analyser as shown in Figure
D.3.6-1.
{width="3.9027777777777777in" height="1.7692596237970253in"}
Figure D.3.6-1: Setup for FR2 power validation measurements
**Spectrum analyser settings:**
Table D.3.6-1: Spectrum analyser settings for FR2 power validation
measurements
+-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +=========================+======+===========================+ | Centre frequency | MHz | Downlink centre frequency | | | | | | | | in Table D.3.1-1 | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Integrated Channel Span | Hz | 20MHz | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | RBW | Hz | 30 kHz | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | VBW | Hz | > ≥10MHz | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of points | | ≥400 | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Averaging | | ≥100 | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Detector | | RMS | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+
**Measurement Procedure:**
1\. Place a horn antenna in the centre of the test zone connected to a
spectrum analyser (or power meter) via a cable. Point the horn to the first
probe and initially select the V-polarization.
2\. Record the cable and horn antenna gains.
3\. Load the target channel model into the channel emulator.
4\. Start the NR FR2 signalling in the base station emulator with the required
parameter identical to the measurements conditions.
5\. Disable all CE outputs and enable only the CE output that points towards
the active probe with the polarization matching the polarization of the
reference horn antenna.
6\. Average the power received by the spectrum analyser to get ≥ 100 averages
to account for the fading channel.
7\. Repeat steps 5 to 6 for all six probe directions and perform separate V
and H polarization measurements while matching the polarization of the horn
antenna in the centre of the test zone with the polarization of the probe.
8\. Calculate the total power received at the test area as the sum of the
power over $k = 6$ probes in the two polarizations as follows:
$P_{V} = 10\log_{10}\sum_{k_{V}}^{}10^{\left(
\frac{P_{k_{V}}\lbrack\text{dB}\rbrack}{10} \right)}$
$P_{H} = 10\log_{10}\sum_{k_{H}}^{}10^{\left(
\frac{P_{k_{H}}\lbrack\text{dB}\rbrack}{10} \right)}$
$P_{\text{total}}\lbrack\text{dB}\rbrack = 10\log_{10}\left\lbrack
\sum_{k_{V}}^{}10^{\left( \frac{P_{k_{V}}\lbrack\text{dB}\rbrack}{10} \right)}
+ \sum_{k_{H}}^{}10^{\left( \frac{P_{k_{H}}\lbrack\text{dB}\rbrack}{10}
\right)} \right\rbrack$
# D.4 Validation Pass/fail limit
## D.4.1 General
This clause defines the pass/fail limit of FR2 3D-MPAC system for FR2 channel
model validation.
## D.4.2 Pass/Fail Criteria of PDP
This clause defines the pass/fail criteria of PDP, this pass/fail limits apply
for all FR2 frequency bands.
The detailed pass/fail limits for each cluster of FR2 CDL-C UMi are defined in
Table D.4.2-1.
Table D.4.2-1: PDP pass/fail limits for FR2 CDL-C UMi channel model validation
                            **Power Tolerance**   **Delay Tolerance**
* * *
Paths from 0dB to 10dB ±1dB ±6ns Paths from 10dB to 30dB ±5dB ±6ns Paths from
30dB to 40dB ±10dB ±6ns
## D.4.3 Pass/Fail Criteria of Doppler/Temporal correlation
This clause defines the pass/fail criteria of doppler/temporal correlation
validation, this pass/fail limits apply for all FR2 frequency bands.
The pass/fail limits for theoretical temporal correlation defined in Clause
D.3.3 above 0.3 are formed as bands of ±0.1 of correlation capped at 1 at the
high end. Additionally, when the theoretical temporal correlation drops below
0.3, the limits are formed at bands of ±0.3 of correlation capped at 0 at the
low end.
Table D.4.3-1: pass/fail limits for temporal correlation
Distance [λ] X2V Corr. Distance [λ] X2V Corr.
* * *
                   Lower       Upper                        Lower    Upper
0 0.9000 1.0000 2.5 0.0000 0.3000 0.1 0.8929 1.0000 2.6 0.0000 0.3000 0.2
0.8717 1.0000 2.7 0.0000 0.3000 0.3 0.8379 1.0000 2.8 0.0000 0.3000 0.4 0.7937
0.9937 2.9 0.0000 0.3000 0.5 0.7414 0.9414 3 0.0000 0.3000 0.6 0.6834 0.8834
3.1 0.0000 0.3000 0.7 0.6223 0.8223 3.2 0.0000 0.3000 0.8 0.5601 0.7601 3.3
0.0000 0.3000 0.9 0.4986 0.6986 3.4 0.0000 0.3000 1 0.4387 0.6387 3.5 0.0000
0.3000 1.1 0.3817 0.5817 3.6 0.0000 0.3000 1.2 0.3284 0.5284 3.7 0.0000 0.3000
1.3 0.2796 0.4796 3.8 0.0000 0.3000 1.4 0.2362 0.4362 3.9 0.0000 0.3000 1.5
0.1984 0.3984 4 0.0000 0.3000 1.6 0.1667 0.3667 4.1 0.0000 0.3000 1.7 0.1416
0.3416 4.2 0.0000 0.3000 1.8 0.1221 0.3221 4.3 0.0000 0.3000 1.9 0.1081 0.3081
4.4 0.0000 0.3000 2 0.0000 0.3000 4.5 0.0000 0.3000 2.1 0.0000 0.3000 4.6
0.0000 0.3000 2.2 0.0000 0.3000 4.7 0.0000 0.3000 2.3 0.0000 0.3000 4.8 0.0000
0.3000 2.4 0.0000 0.3000 4.9 0.0000 0.3000 5 0.0000 0.3000
Based on the value defined in Table D.4.3-1, Figure D.4.3-1 shows the
pass/fail and reference curve of temporal correlation.
{width="3.1222222222222222in" height="2.3604166666666666in"}
Figure D.4.3-1: Pass/fail limits and targets of Temporal correlation for CDL-C
UMi channel model: red curve (reference), blue (upper limit) and green (lower
limit)
## D.4.4 Pass/Fail Criteria of PSP
This clause defines the pass/fail criteria of PSP, this general pass/fail
limits principle apply for all FR2 frequency bands.
The PSP pass/fail limit is specified as [84%].
## D.4.5 Pass/Fail Criteria of Cross-polarization
This clause defines the pass/fail criteria of cross-polarization, this
pass/fail limits apply for all FR2 frequency bands.
The cross-polarization ratio pass/fail limit is specified as ±1.5 dB.
## D.4.6 Pass/Fail Criteria of Power validation
This clause defines the pass/fail criteria of power validation, this pass/fail
limits apply for all FR2 bands.
The power validation pass/fail limit is specified as [TBD].
###### ## Annex E (normative): \
# E.1 FR1 gNB configurations
The gNodeB emulator parameters shall be set according to Table E.1-1 for FR1
common parameters, Table E.1-2 for FR1 FDD 2x2 test parameters, Table E.1-3
for FR1 TDD 2x2 test parameters, Table E.1-4 for FR1 FDD 4x4 test parameters,
and Table E.1-5 for FR1 TDD 4x4 test parameters.
Table E.1-1: FR1 Common test parameters
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ** | **Unit** | **Value** | | | | Parameter** | | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | PDSCH | | T | | | | t | | ransmission | | | | ransmission | | scheme 1 | | | | scheme | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Carrier | Offset | RBs | 0 | | | co | between | | | | | nfiguration | Point A and | | | | | | the lowest | | | | | | usable | | | | | | subcarrier | | | | | | on this | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | (Note 2) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Subcarrier | kHz | 15 or 30 | | | | spacing | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | DL BWP | Cyclic | | Normal | | | co | prefix | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | #1 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | RB offset | RBs | 0 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Number of | PRBs | Maximum | | | | contiguous | | t | | | | PRB | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | as | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in clause | | | | | | 5.3.2 of | | | | | | TS 38.101-1 | | | | | | for tested | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | and | | | | | | subcarrier | | | | | | spacing | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Common | Physical | | 0 | | | serving | Cell ID | | | | | cell | | | | | | parameters | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | SSB | | First SSB | | | | position in | | in Slot #0 | | | | burst | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | SSB | ms | 20 | | | | periodicity | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | First DMRS | | 2 | | | | position | | | | | | for Type A | | | | | | PDSCH | | | | | | mapping | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PDCCH | Slots for | | Each slot | | | co | PDCCH | | | | | nfiguration | monitoring | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Symbols | Symbols | 0, 1 | | | | with PDCCH | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Number of | | Table 5.2-2 | | | | PRBs in | | of TS | | | | CORESET | | 38.101-4 | | | | | | for tested | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | and | | | | | | subcarrier | | | | | | spacing | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Number of | | 1/AL8 | | | | PDCCH | | | | | | candidates | | | | | | and | | | | | | aggregation | | | | | | levels | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CCE-to-REG | | Non- | | | | mapping | | interleaved | | | | type | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | DCI format | | 1_1 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | TCI state | | TCI state | | | | | | #1 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Cross | | Not | | | | carrier | | configured | | | | scheduling | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CSI-RS for | First | | k~0~=0 for | | | tracking | subcarrier | | CSI-RS | | | | index in | | resource | | | | the PRB | | 1,2,3,4 | | | | used for | | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | First OFDM | | l~0~ = 6 | | | | symbol in | | for CSI-RS | | | | the PRB | | resource 1 | | | | used for | | and 3 | | | | CSI-RS | | | | | | | | l~0~ = 10 | | | | | | for CSI-RS | | | | | | resource 2 | | | | | | and 4 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Number of | | 1 for | | | | CSI-RS | | CSI-RS | | | | ports (X) | | resource | | | | | | 1,2,3,4 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CDM Type | | 'No CDM' | | | | | | for CSI-RS | | | | | | resource | | | | | | 1,2,3,4 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Density (ρ) | | 3 for | | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | | | resource | | | | | | 1,2,3,4 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CSI-RS | Slots | 15 kHz SCS: | | | | periodicity | | 20 for | | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | | | resource | | | | | | 1,2,3,4 | | | | | | | | | | | | 30 kHz SCS: | | | | | | 40 for | | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | | | resource | | | | | | 1,2,3,4 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CSI-RS | Slots | 15 kHz SCS: | | | | offset | | | | | | | | 10 for | | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | | | resource 1 | | | | | | and 2 | | | | | | | | | | | | 11 for | | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | | | resource 3 | | | | | | and 4 | | | | | | | | | | | | 30 kHz SCS: | | | | | | | | | | | | 20 for | | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | | | resource 1 | | | | | | and 2 | | | | | | | | | | | | 21 for | | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | | | resource 3 | | | | | | and 4 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Frequency | | Start PRB 0 | | | | Occupation | | | | | | | | Number of | | | | | | PRB = BWP | | | | | | size | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | QCL info | | TCI state | | | | | | #0 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NZP CSI-RS | First | | k~0~ = 0 | | | for CSI | subcarrier | | | | | acquisition | index in | | | | | | the PRB | | | | | | used for | | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | First OFDM | | l~0~ = 12 | | | | symbol in | | | | | | the PRB | | | | | | used for | | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Number of | | Same as | | | | CSI-RS | | number of | | | | ports (X) | | transmit | | | | | | antenna | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CDM Type | | 'FD-CDM2' | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Density (ρ) | | 1 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CSI-RS | Slots | 15 kHz SCS: | | | | periodicity | | 20 | | | | | | | | | | | | 30 kHz SCS: | | | | | | 40 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CSI-RS | Slots | 0 | | | | offset | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Frequency | | Start PRB 0 | | | | Occupation | | | | | | | | Number of | | | | | | PRB = BWP | | | | | | size | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | QCL info | | TCI state | | | | | | #1 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ZP CSI-RS | First | | k~0~ = 4 | | | for CSI | subcarrier | | | | | acquisition | index in | | | | | | the PRB | | | | | | used for | | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | First OFDM | | l~0~ = 12 | | | | symbol in | | | | | | the PRB | | | | | | used for | | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Number of | | 4 | | | | CSI-RS | | | | | | ports (X) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CDM Type | | 'FD-CDM2' | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Density (ρ) | | 1 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CSI-RS | Slots | 15 kHz SCS: | | | | periodicity | | 20 | | | | | | | | | | | | 30 kHz SCS: | | | | | | 40 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CSI-RS | Slots | 0 | | | | offset | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Frequency | | Start PRB 0 | | | | Occupation | | | | | | | | Number of | | | | | | PRB = BWP | | | | | | size | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PDSCH DMRS | Antenna | | {1000, | | | co | ports | | 1001} for | | | nfiguration | indexes | | Rank 2 | | | | | | tests | | | | | | | | | | | | {1000-1003} | | | | | | for Rank 4 | | | | | | tests | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Number of | | 1 for Rank | | | | PDSCH DMRS | | 2 tests | | | | CDM | | | | | | group(s) | | 2 for Rank | | | | without | | 4 tests | | | | data | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TCI state | Type 1 QCL | SSB index | | SSB #0 | | #0 | information | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | QCL Type | | Type C | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Type 2 QCL | SSB index | | N/A | | | information | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | QCL Type | | N/A | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TCI state | Type 1 QCL | CSI-RS | | CSI-RS | | #1 | information | resource | | resource 1 | | | | | | from | | | | | | 'CSI-RS for | | | | | | tracking' | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | QCL Type | | Type A | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Type 2 QCL | CSI-RS | | N/A | | | information | resource | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | QCL Type | | N/A | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PT-RS | | PT-RS is | | | | co | | not | | | | nfiguration | | configured | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Maximum | | 1 | | | | number of | | | | | | code block | | | | | | groups for | | | | | | ACK/NACK | | | | | | feedback | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Maximum | | 1 | | | | number of | | | | | | HARQ | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | HARQ | | Multiplexed | | | | ACK/NACK | | | | | | bundling | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Redundancy | | N.A | | | | version | | | | | | coding | | | | | | sequence | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Precoding | | SP Type I, | | | | co | | Random per | | | | nfiguration | | slot with | | | | | | PRB | | | | | | bundling | | | | | | granularity | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Symbols for | | OCNG Annex | | | | all unused | | A.5 of TS | | | | REs | | 38.101-4 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Minimum | | 20000 for | | | | Number of | | 15kHz SCS | | | | Slots per | | | | | | Stream | | 40000 for | | | | | | 30kHz SCS | | | | | | | | | | | | (Note 3) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Transmit | dBm | 13 | | | | Power | | | | | | Control | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | DL power | dBm / SCS | Set at | | | | level | | gNodeB | | | | | | simulator | | | | (RS EPRE of | | | | | | SSS) | | with | | | | | | correction | | | | | | from | | | | | | calibration | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | EPRE ratio | dB | 0 | | | | of PDSCH to | | | | | | SSS | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: UE | | | | | | assumes | | | | | | that the | | | | | | TCI state | | | | | | for the | | | | | | PDSCH is | | | | | | identical | | | | | | to the TCI | | | | | | state | | | | | | applied for | | | | | | the PDCCH | | | | | | tr | | | | | | ansmission. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | Point A | | | | | | coincides | | | | | | with | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | guard band | | | | | | as | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.3.3-1 | | | | | | from TS | | | | | | 38.101-1 | | | | | | for tested | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | and | | | | | | subcarrier | | | | | | spacing. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: For | | | | | | FR1 MIMO | | | | | | OTA test | | | | | | lab | | | | | | alignments | | | | | | and FR1 | | | | | | MIMO OTA UE | | | | | | performance | | | | | | re | | | | | | quirements, | | | | | | the | | | | | | following | | | | | | values can | | | | | | be used: | | | | | | | | | | | | For FR1 | | | | | | bands | | | | | | >1GHz: 20k | | | | | | for 30kHz | | | | | | SCS, 10k | | | | | | for 15kHz | | | | | | SCS; | | | | | | | | | | | | For FR1 | | | | | | bands | | | | | | \
# F.1 Scope
The requirements in this clause apply to all types of UE(s) in FR1 and FR2.
# F.2 Ambient temperature
All the MIMO OTA requirements are applicable in room temperature e.g. 25°C.
# F.3 Operating voltage
For FR1 MIMO OTA, all nominal voltage test cases shall be performed with the
DUT operated in stand-alone battery powered mode.
For FR2 MIMO OTA, all nominal voltage test cases shall be performed with the
DUT operated in stand-alone battery powered mode or external power source. It
shall be demonstrated that the impact of external power source to device
performance is negligible comparing to stand-alone battery powered mode.
#