# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document establishes the TRP (Total Radiated Power) and TRS (Total
Radiated Sensitivity) requirements for NR UEs operating on Range 1 Standalone
and Range 1 Interworking operation with other radios.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 38.834: "Measurements of User Equipment (UE) Over-the-Air (OTA)
performance for NR FR1; Total Radiated Power (TRP) and Total Radiated
Sensitivity (TRS) test methodology".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.101-3: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking operation with other
radios\".
[5] 3GPP TS 38.521-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Radio transmission and reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".
[6] 3GPP TS 38.521-3: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Radio transmission and reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking
operation with other radios\".
[7] 3GPP TS 38.508-1: \"5GS; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 1: Common test environment \".
[8] 3GPP TS 37.544: "Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) Over The Air
(OTA) performance; Conformance testing ".
[9] CTIA Certification™ OTA Test Plan: "CTIA Certification Test Plan for
Wireless Device Over-the-Air Performance, Version 3.9.5 ",
https://ctiacertification.org/test-plans/
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**Browsing mode usage:** This mode corresponds to "data" mode, the device is
tested via hand-only phantoms.
**Primary mechanical mode:** The mode that is most often used for a specific
user scenario. Every terminal has at least one primary mechanical mode, if
multiple modes are supported, different primary mechanical modes may be
applicable for different user scenarios, e.g., different primary mechanical
modes for Browsing mode usage and Talk mode usage for the same UE.
**Talk mode usage:** This mode corresponds to "talk" mode, the device is
tested via head&hand phantoms.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
_TRP~average\ ~_ The average measured total radiated power of low, mid and
high channel. When hand phantom is involved, the average is performed with
low, mid and high channel from both hand left and hand right.
_TRS~average\ ~_ The average measured total radiated sensitivity of low, mid
and high channel. When hand phantom is involved, the average is performed with
low, mid and high channel from both hand left and hand right.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AC Anechoic Chamber
BHHL Beside Head and Hand Left Side (Head and Hand Phantom)
BHHR Beside Head and Hand Right Side (Head and Hand Phantom)
DUT Device Under Test
EIRP Effective Isotropic Radiated Power
EUT Equipment Under Test
FR1 Frequency Range 1
FS Free Space
HL Hand Left (Hand Phantom Only)
HR Hand Right (Hand Phantom Only)
NSA Non-Standalone, a mode of operation where operation of an other radio is
assisted with an other radio
OTA Over The Air
QZ Quiet Zone
SA Standalone
SS System Simulator
TAA Time-Averaging Algorithm
TAS Tx Antenna Switching
TRP Total Radiated Power
TRS Total Radiated Sensitivity
UE User Equipment
# 4 General
## 4.1 Relationship between minimum requirements and test requirements
The Minimum Requirements given in this specification make no allowance for
measurement uncertainty. The test specification in RAN5 will define final test
tolerances for FR1 TRP TRS. The test tolerances are used to relax the minimum
requirements in this specification to create test requirements.
## 4.2 Applicability of minimum requirements
### 4.2.1 General
The minimum requirements apply only to the corresponding primary mechanical
mode of UE in the environmental conditions specified in Annex C.4.2.2.
### 4.2.1 UE mechanical modes
The mechanical modes of a device under test (DUT) are declared by the
manufacturer. A DUT shall have at least one mechanical mode. If only one mode
is supported, then this is defined as the primary. If multiple modes are
supported, the manufacturer can declare different primary mechanical modes
applicable for different user scenarios, e.g., different primary mechanical
mode for Browsing mode usage and Talk mode usage for the same UE.
## 4.3 Applicability rules for testing of FR1 SA and NSA UEs
The applicability and test coverage rules for Non-Standalone (NSA) only
capable devices shall include the following:
\- For each NR band supported by the device, test the UE in EN-DC mode using
any one example configuration containing that NR band or configuration
declaration decision tree as per recommended TRP/TRS test procedures in this
specification.
The applicability and test coverage rules for Standalone (SA) and NSA (EN-DC)
capable devices shall include the following:
\- For each NR band in a device, test the UE in Standalone Mode as per the
TRP/TRS test procedures in this specification.
\- This shall also fulfil coverage for all EN-DC FR1 minimum performance
requirements for that NR band and need not be retested in EN-DC mode.
## 4.4 Applicability rules for testing of power class capability of UEs
The applicability and test coverage rules for PC2 and PC3 UEs shall include
the following:
\- For UEs that support PC2 in a given band: verify the requirement only with
PC2 configuration
\- For UEs that only support PC3 in a given band: verify the requirement with
PC3 configuration
NOTE 1: The test procedure and requirements in this version of the
specification apply only for handheld UEs based on 1 Tx configuration and are
not applicable to UEs under TxD and UL MIMO configurations.
# 5 Frequency bands
## 5.1 General
The requirements defined in this specification for NR apply to the frequency
bands defined in Clause 5.2.
## 5.2 Operating bands
### 5.2.1 FR1 Standalone Operating bands
The requirements defined in this specification for FR1 standalone apply to the
operating bands defined in Table 5.2.1-1.
Table 5.2.1-1 NR operating bands in FR1 standalone
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | NR operating | Uplink (UL) | Downlink (DL) | Duplex Mode | | band | _operating |_ operating | | | | band _\ | band_ \ | | | | BS receive / UE | BS transmit / | | | | transmit | UE receive | | | | | | | | | F~UL_low~ -- | F~DL_low~ -- | | | | F~UL_high~ | F~DL_high~ | | +=================+=================+=================+=============+ | n1 | 1920 MHz -- | 2110 MHz -- | FDD | | | 1980 MHz | 2170 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n2 | 1850 MHz -- | 1930 MHz -- | FDD | | | 1910 MHz | 1990 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n3 | 1710 MHz -- | 1805 MHz -- | FDD | | | 1785 MHz | 1880 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n5 | 824 MHz -- 849 | 869 MHz -- 894 | FDD | | | MHz | MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n7 | 2500 MHz -- | 2620 MHz -- | FDD | | | 2570 MHz | 2690 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n8 | 880 MHz -- 915 | 925 MHz -- 960 | FDD | | | MHz | MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n12 | 699 MHz -- 716 | 729 MHz -- 746 | FDD | | | MHz | MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n14 | 788 MHz -- 798 | 758 MHz -- 768 | FDD | | | MHz | MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n20 | 832 MHz -- 862 | 791 MHz -- 821 | FDD | | | MHz | MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n25 | 1850 MHz -- | 1930 MHz -- | FDD | | | 1915 MHz | 1995 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n26 | 814 MHz -- 849 | 859 MHz -- 894 | FDD | | | MHz | MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n28 | 703 MHz -- 748 | 758 MHz -- 803 | FDD | | | MHz | MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n30 | 2305 MHz -- | 2350 MHz -- | FDD | | | 2315 MHz | 2360 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n34 | 2010 MHz -- | 2010 MHz -- | TDD | | | 2025 MHz | 2025 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n38 | 2570 MHz -- | 2570 MHz -- | TDD | | | 2620 MHz | 2620 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n39 | 1880 MHz -- | 1880 MHz -- | TDD | | | 1920 MHz | 1920 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n40 | 2300 MHz -- | 2300 MHz -- | TDD | | | 2400 MHz | 2400 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n41 | 2496 MHz -- | 2496 MHz -- | TDD | | | 2690 MHz | 2690 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n48 | 3550 MHz -- | 3550 MHz -- | TDD | | | 3700 MHz | 3700 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n50 | 1432 MHz -- | 1432 MHz -- | TDD^1^ | | | 1517 MHz | 1517 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n51 | 1427 MHz -- | 1427 MHz -- | TDD | | | 1432 MHz | 1432 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n53 | 2483.5 MHz -- | 2483.5 MHz -- | TDD | | | 2495 MHz | 2495 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n65 | 1920 MHz -- | 2110 MHz -- | FDD^4^ | | | 2010 MHz | 2200 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n66 | 1710 MHz -- | 2110 MHz -- | FDD | | | 1780 MHz | 2200 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n70 | 1695 MHz -- | 1995 MHz -- | FDD | | | 1710 MHz | 2020 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n71 | 663 MHz -- 698 | 617 MHz -- 652 | FDD | | | MHz | MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n74 | 1427 MHz -- | 1475 MHz -- | FDD | | | 1470 MHz | 1518 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n75 | N/A | 1432 MHz -- | SDL | | | | 1517 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n76 | N/A | 1427 MHz -- | SDL | | | | 1432 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n77^12^ | 3300 MHz -- | 3300 MHz -- | TDD | | | 4200 MHz | 4200 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n78 | 3300 MHz -- | 3300 MHz -- | TDD | | | 3800 MHz | 3800 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n79 | 4400 MHz -- | 4400 MHz -- | TDD | | | 5000 MHz | 5000 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n80 | 1710 MHz -- | N/A | SUL | | | 1785 MHz | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n81 | 880 MHz -- 915 | N/A | SUL | | | MHz | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n82 | 832 MHz -- 862 | N/A | SUL | | | MHz | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n83 | 703 MHz -- 748 | N/A | SUL | | | MHz | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n84 | 1920 MHz -- | N/A | SUL | | | 1980 MHz | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n86 | 1710 MHz -- | N/A | SUL | | | 1780 MHz | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n95 | 2010 MHz -- | N/A | SUL | | | 2025 MHz | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+
Other operating bands may be considered in future releases.
### 5.2.2 FR1 EN-DC band combinations
_\ _
Principle of EN-DC band combinations selection for FR1 TRP TRS OTA testing:
1) Focus on the performance of the NR carrier and do not consider multiple
permutations between different LTE bands and NR band under test, i.e., for
each NR band, only select one EN-DC band combination.
2) For UE supporting multiple EN-DC band combinations for the same NR band,
consider only those EN-DC configurations which have no MSD impact on either
LTE or NR, i.e., the selected EN-DC combination should be no MSD issue
identified in TS 38.101-3 Section 7.3B.2.3 (Inter-band EN-DC within FR1).
Table 5.2.2-1: Measurement parameters for example inter-band EN-DC band
combinations (two bands)
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+ | EN-DC | E-UTRA configurations | NR configurations | | | | | | configuration | | | +=======================+=======================+===================+ | DC_3A_n28A | Note1 | Note2 | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+ | DC_2A_n41A | Note1 | Note2 | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+ | DC_1A_n78A | Note1 | Note2 | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+ | DC_1A_n79A | Note1 | Note2 | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+ | Note 1: As per TS | | | | 37.544 [8], Clause | | | | 5.3 and 5.4 | | | | (Measurement | | | | frequencies for | | | | E-UTRA FDD and TDD). | | | | | | | | Note 2: As per Table | | | | 5.3-1 and Table 5.3-2 | | | | in this | | | | specification. The | | | | measurement | | | | parameters for NR Low | | | | Mid High ranges | | | | correspond to E-UTRA | | | | Low Mid High ranges | | | | respectively. | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+
With the above basic principle and EN-DC example band combination, the
selection logic for testing is defined by the decision tree below.
{width="6.423611111111111in" height="9.020363079615048in"}
Figure 5.2.2-1: Decision tree to select the EN-DC band combination for TRP/TRS
testing
## 5.3 Test parameters for each band
The detailed testing parameters for each band is defined in Table 5.3-1 and
Table 5.3-2.
Table 5.3-1: NR FR1 TRP measurement parameters
NR Band | CBW  
[MHz] | SCS (kHz) | UL modulation | Range | UL Carrier centre [ARFCN] | UL Carrier Center (MHz) | DL Carrier centre [ARFCN] | DL Carrier Center (MHz) | UL RB Allocation (LCRB @ RBstart) | DL configuration  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
n1 | 15 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 385500 | 1927.5 | 423500 | 2117.5 | 36@18 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 390000 | 1950 | 428000 | 2140 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 394500 | 1972.5 | 432500 | 2162.5 |  |   
n2 | 15 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 371500 | 1857.5 | 387500 | 1937.5 | 36@18 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 376000 | 1880 | 392000 | 1960 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 380500 | 1902.5 | 396500 | 1982.5 |  |   
n3 | 20 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 344000 | 1720 | 363000 | 1815 | 50@25 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 349500 | 1747.5 | 368500 | 1842.5 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 355000 | 1775 | 374000 | 1870 |  |   
n5 | 15 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 166300 | 831.5 | 175300 | 876.5 | 36@18 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 167300 | 836.5 | 176300 | 881.5 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 168300 | 841.5 | 177300 | 886.5 |  |   
n7 | 15 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 501500 | 2507.5 | 525500 | 2627.5 | 36@18 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 507000 | 2535 | 531000 | 2655 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 512500 | 2562.5 | 536500 | 2682.5 |  |   
n8 | 15 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 177500 | 887.5 | 186500 | 932.5 | 36@18 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 179500 | 897.5 | 188500 | 942.5 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 181500 | 907.5 | 190500 | 952.5 |  |   
n12 | 10 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 140800 | 704 | 146800 | 734 | 25@12 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 141500 | 707.5 | 147500 | 737.5 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 142200 | 711 | 148200 | 741 |  |   
n14 | 10 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 158600 | 793 | 152600 | 763 | 25@12 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  | High |  |  |  |  |  |   
n20 | 15 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 167900 | 839.5 | 159700 | 798.5 | 36@18 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 169400 | 847 | 161200 | 806 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 170900 | 854.5 | 162700 | 813.5 |  |   
n25 | 15 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 371500 | 1857.5 | 387500 | 1937.5 | 36@18 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 376500 | 1882.5 | 392500 | 1962.5 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 381500 | 1907.5 | 397500 | 1987.5 |  |   
n26 | 10 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 163800 | 819 | 172800 | 864 | 25@12 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 166300 | 831.5 | 175300 | 876.5 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 168800 | 844 | 177800 | 889 |  |   
n28 | 20 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 142600 | 713 | 153600 | 768 | 50@25 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 145600 | 728 | 156600 | 783 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 147600 | 738 | 158600 | 793 |  |   
n30 | 10 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 462000 | 2310 | 471000 | 2355 | 25@12 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  | High |  |  |  |  |  |   
n34 | 10 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 403000 | 2015 | 403000 | 2015 | 25@12 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 403500 | 2017.5 | 403500 | 2017.5 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 404000 | 2020 | 404000 | 2020 |  |   
n38 | 15 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 515500 | 2577.5 | 515500 | 2577.5 | 36@18 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 519000 | 2595 | 519000 | 2595 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 522500 | 2612.5 | 522500 | 2612.5 |  |   
n39 | 20 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 378000 | 1890 | 378000 | 1890 | 50@25 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 380000 | 1900 | 380000 | 1900 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 382000 | 1910 | 382000 | 1910 |  |   
n40 | 30 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 463000 | 2315 | 463000 | 2315 | TBD | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 470000 | 2350 | 470000 | 2350 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 477000 | 2385 | 477000 | 2385 |  |   
n41 | 100 | 30 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 509202 | 2546.01 | 509202 | 2546.01 | 135@67 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 518598 | 2592.99 | 518598 | 2592.99 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 528000 | 2640 | 528000 | 2640 |  |   
n48 | 20 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 637334 | 3560.01 | 637334 | 3560.01 | 50@25 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 641666 | 3624.99 | 641666 | 3624.99 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 646000 | 3690 | 646000 | 3690 |  |   
n50 | 20 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 288400 | 1442 | 288400 | 1442 | 50@25 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 294900 | 1474.5 | 294900 | 1474.5 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 301400 | 1507 | 301400 | 1507 |  |   
n51 | 5 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 285900 | 1429.5 | 285900 | 1429.5 | 12@6 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  | High |  |  |  |  |  |   
n53 | 10 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 497700 | 2488.5 | 497700 | 2488.5 | 25@12 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 497860 | 2489.3 | 497860 | 2489.3 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 498000 | 2490 | 498000 | 2490 |  |   
n65 | 15 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 423500 | 2117.5 | 423500 | 2117.5 | 36@18 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 431000 | 2155 | 431000 | 2155 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 438500 | 2192.5 | 438500 | 2192.5 |  |   
n66 | 20 (20+20) | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 344000 | 1720 | 424000 | 2120 | 50@25 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 349000 | 1745 | 429000 | 2145 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 354000 | 1770 | 434000 | 2170 |  |   
n70 | 15 (15+15) | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 340500 | 1702.5 | 400500 | 2002.5 | 36@18 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  | High |  |  |  |  |  |   
n71 | 10 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 133600 | 668 | 124400 | 622 | 25@12 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 136100 | 680.5 | 126900 | 634.5 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 138600 | 693 | 129400 | 647 |  |   
n74 | 15 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 286900 | 1434.5 | 296500 | 1482.5 | 36@18 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 289700 | 1448.5 | 299300 | 1496.5 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 292500 | 1462.5 | 302100 | 1510.5 |  |   
n77 | 100 | 30 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 623334 | 3350.01 | 623334 | 3350.01 | 135@67 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 650000 | 3750 | 650000 | 3750 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 676666 | 4149.99 | 676666 | 4149.99 |  |   
n78 | 100 | 30 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 623334 | 3350.01 | 623334 | 3350.01 | 135@67 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 636666 | 3549.99 | 636666 | 3549.99 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 650000 | 3750 | 650000 | 3750 |  |   
n79 | 100 | 30 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 696668 | 4450.02 | 696668 | 4450.02 | 135@67 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 713334 | 4700.01 | 713334 | 4700.01 |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 730000 | 4950 | 730000 | 4950 |  |   
n80 | 20 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 344000 | 1720 | N/A | N/A | 50@25 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 349500 | 1747.5 | N/A | N/A |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 355000 | 1775 | N/A | N/A |  |   
n81 | 15 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 177500 | 887.5 | N/A | N/A | 36@18 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 179500 | 897.5 | N/A | N/A |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 181500 | 907.5 | N/A | N/A |  |   
n82 | 15 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 167900 | 839.5 | N/A | N/A | 36@18 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 169400 | 847 | N/A | N/A |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 170900 | 854.5 | N/A | N/A |  |   
n83 | 15 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 142100 | 710.5 | N/A | N/A | 36@18 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 145100 | 725.5 | N/A | N/A |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 148100 | 740.5 | N/A | N/A |  |   
n84 | 15 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 385500 | 1927.5 | N/A | N/A | 36@18 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 390000 | 1950 | N/A | N/A |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 394500 | 1972.5 | N/A | N/A |  |   
n86 | 20 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 344000 | 1720 | N/A | N/A | 50@25 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 349000 | 1745 | N/A | N/A |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 354000 | 1770 | N/A | N/A |  |   
N95 | 10 | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 403000 | 2015 | N/A | N/A | 50@25 | N/A  
|  |  |  | Mid | 403500 | 2017.5 | N/A | N/A |  |   
|  |  |  | High | 404000 | 2020 | N/A | N/A |  |   
Table 5.3-2: NR FR1 TRS measurement parameters
NR Band | CBW  
(MHz) | SCS (kHz) | DL modulation | UL modulation | Range | UL Carrier centre [ARFCN] | UL Carrier Center (MHz) | DL Carrier centre [ARFCN] | DL Carrier Center (MHz) | UL RB Allocation **(** LCRB @ RBstart**)** | DL Configuration (FULL RB, LCRB @ RBstart)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
n1 | 15 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 385500 | 1927.5 | 423500 | 2117.5 | 75@4 | 79@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 390000 | 1950 | 428000 | 2140 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 394500 | 1972.5 | 432500 | 2162.5 |  |   
n2 | 15 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 371500 | 1857.5 | 387500 | 1937.5 | 50@29 | 79@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 376000 | 1880 | 392000 | 1960 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 380500 | 1902.5 | 396500 | 1982.5 |  |   
n3 | 20 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 344000 | 1720 | 363000 | 1815 | 50@56 | 106@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 349500 | 1747.5 | 368500 | 1842.5 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 355000 | 1775 | 374000 | 1870 |  |   
n5 | 15 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 166300 | 831.5 | 175300 | 876.5 | 25@54 | 79@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 167300 | 836.5 | 176300 | 881.5 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 168300 | 841.5 | 177300 | 886.5 |  |   
n7 | 15 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 501500 | 2507.5 | 525500 | 2627.5 | 75@4 | 79@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 507000 | 2535 | 531000 | 2655 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 512500 | 2562.5 | 536500 | 2682.5 |  |   
n8 | 15 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 177500 | 887.5 | 186500 | 932.5 | 25@54 | 79@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 179500 | 897.5 | 188500 | 942.5 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 181500 | 907.5 | 190500 | 952.5 |  |   
n12 | 10 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 140800 | 704 | 146800 | 734 | 20@32 | 52@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 141500 | 707.5 | 147500 | 737.5 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 142200 | 711 | 148200 | 741 |  |   
n14 | 10 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 158600 | 793 | 152600 | 763 | 20@32 | 52@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High |  |  |  |  |  |   
n20 | 15 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 167900 | 839.5 | 159700 | 798.5 | 20@11 | 79@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 169400 | 847 | 161200 | 806 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 170900 | 854.5 | 162700 | 813.5 |  |   
n25 | 15 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 371500 | 1857.5 | 387500 | 1937.5 | 50@29 | 79@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 376500 | 1882.5 | 392500 | 1962.5 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 381500 | 1907.5 | 397500 | 1987.5 |  |   
n26 | 10 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 163800 | 819 | 172800 | 864 | 25@27 | 52@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 166300 | 831.5 | 175300 | 876.5 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 168800 | 844 | 177800 | 889 |  |   
n28 | 20 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 142600 | 713 | 153600 | 768 | 25@81 | 106@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 145600 | 728 | 156600 | 783 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 147600 | 738 | 158600 | 793 |  |   
n30 | 10 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 462000 | 2310 | 471000 | 2355 | 20@32 | 52@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High |  |  |  |  |  |   
n34 | 10 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 403000 | 2015 | 403000 | 2015 | 50@0 | 52@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 403500 | 2017.5 | 403500 | 2017.5 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 404000 | 2020 | 404000 | 2020 |  |   
n38 | 15 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 515500 | 2577.5 | 515500 | 2577.5 | 75@0 | 79@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 519000 | 2595 | 519000 | 2595 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 522500 | 2612.5 | 522500 | 2612.5 |  |   
n39 | 20 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 378000 | 1890 | 378000 | 1890 | 100@0 | 106@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 380000 | 1900 | 380000 | 1900 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 382000 | 1910 | 382000 | 1910 |  |   
n40 | 30 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 463000 | 2315 | 463000 | 2315 | 160@0 | 160@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 470000 | 2350 | 470000 | 2350 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 477000 | 2385 | 477000 | 2385 |  |   
n41 | 100 | 30 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 509202 | 2546.01 | 509202 | 2546.01 | 270@0 | 273@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 518598 | 2592.99 | 518598 | 2592.99 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 528000 | 2640 | 528000 | 2640 |  |   
n48 | 20 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 637334 | 3560.01 | 637334 | 3560.01 | 100@0 | 106@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 641666 | 3624.99 | 641666 | 3624.99 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 646000 | 3690 | 646000 | 3690 |  |   
n50 | 20 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 288400 | 1442 | 288400 | 1442 | 100@0 | 106@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 294900 | 1474.5 | 294900 | 1474.5 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 301400 | 1507 | 301400 | 1507 |  |   
n51 | 5 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 285900 | 1429.5 | 285900 | 1429.5 | 25@0 | 25@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High |  |  |  |  |  |   
n53 | 10 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 497700 | 2488.5 | 497700 | 2488.5 | 50@0 | 52@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 497860 | 2489.3 | 497860 | 2489.3 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 498000 | 2490 | 498000 | 2490 |  |   
n65 | 15 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 423500 | 2117.5 | 423500 | 2117.5 | 75@4 | 79@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 431000 | 2155 | 431000 | 2155 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 438500 | 2192.5 | 438500 | 2192.5 |  |   
n66 | 20 (20+20) | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 344000 | 1720 | 424000 | 2120 | 100@6 | 106@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 349000 | 1745 | 429000 | 2145 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 354000 | 1770 | 434000 | 2170 |  |   
n70 | 15 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 340500 | 1702.5 | 400500 | 2002.5 | 75@4 | 79@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High |  |  |  |  |  |   
n71 | 10 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 133600 | 668 | 124400 | 622 | 25@0 | 52@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 136100 | 680.5 | 126900 | 634.5 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 138600 | 693 | 129400 | 647 |  |   
n74 | 15 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 286900 | 1434.5 | 296500 | 1482.5 | 25@54 | 79@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 289700 | 1448.5 | 299300 | 1496.5 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 292500 | 1462.5 | 302100 | 1510.5 |  |   
n75 SDL | 15 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | N/A | N/A | 287900 | 1439.5 | NA | 79@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | N/A | N/A | 294900 | 1474.5 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | N/A | N/A | 301900 | 1509.5 |  |   
n76 SDL | 5 | 15 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | N/A | N/A | 285900 | 1429.5 | NA | 25@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High |  |  |  |  |  |   
n77 | 100 | 30 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 623334 | 3350.01 | 623334 | 3350.01 | 270@0 | 273@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 650000 | 3750 | 650000 | 3750 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 676666 | 4149.99 | 676666 | 4149.99 |  |   
n78 | 100 | 30 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 623334 | 3350.01 | 623334 | 3350.01 | 270@0 | 273@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 636666 | 3549.99 | 636666 | 3549.99 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 650000 | 3750 | 650000 | 3750 |  |   
n79 | 100 | 30 | CP-OFDM QPSK | DFT-s-OFDM QPSK | Low | 696668 | 4450.02 | 696668 | 4450.02 | 270@0 | 273@0  
|  |  |  |  | Mid | 713334 | 4700.01 | 713334 | 4700.01 |  |   
|  |  |  |  | High | 730000 | 4950 | 730000 | 4950 |  |   
# 6 FR1 TRP requirements
## 6.1 General
The TRP requirements specified in Clause 6 apply to handheld UE with TAS off
and power back-off functions disabled.
The TRP requirements defined in Clause 6.2 should be verified based on the
detailed test parameters in Table 5.3-1.
## 6.2 Minimum requirement
### 6.2.1 Minimum requirement for handheld UE
The average measured total radiated power (TRP) of low, mid and high channel
for handheld UE shall be higher than the average TRP requirement specified in
subclauses 6.2.1.1 and 6.2.1.2. The averaging shall be done in linear scale
for the TRP results of both right and left side of the phantom head in case of
beside the head and hand phantom positions. For the hand phantom browsing mode
position the averaging shall be done in linear scale for the TRP results of
both right and left hand phantom measurements.
$$\text{TRP}_{\text{average}} = {10log}\left\lbrack \frac{10^{P_{left_
low}/10} + 10^{P_{left_ mid}/10} + 10^{P_{left_ high}/10} + 10^{P_{right_
low}/10} + 10^{P_{right_ mid}/10} + 10^{P_{right_ high}/10}}{6}
\right\rbrack$$
For UEs which do not support NR FR1 in stand-alone mode, EN-DC mode
requirements apply. SA and EN-DC test case applicability is defined in Clause
4.3, and test case applicability based on power class capability is defined in
Clause 4.4. The relevant test methodology is defined in Annexes A and B of
this specification.
#### 6.2.1.1 Hand phantom browsing mode
Hand phantom browsing mode positions are defined in Clause B.3.1.
##### 6.2.1.1.1 NR FR1
Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirement for NR FR1 bands in the hand
phantom browsing position and the primary mechanical mode are defined in
Tables 6.2.1.1.1-1 and 6.2.1.1.1-2.
Table 6.2.1.1.1-1: Handheld PC3 UE TRP minimum performance requirement for NR
FR1 bands in the hand phantom browsing position and the primary mechanical
mode
NR Band Bandwidth (MHz) Usage Scenario Power Class 3
* * *
                                               Average TRP (dBm)   
                                               UE width ≤ 72mm     UE width \> 72mm
n28 20 HL and HR  
n41 100 HL and HR  
n78 100 HL and HR  
n79 100 HL and HR
Table 6.2.1.1-2: Handheld PC2 UE TRP minimum performance requirement for NR
FR1 bands in the hand phantom browsing position and the primary mechanical
mode
NR Band Bandwidth (MHz) Usage Scenario Power Class 2
* * *
                                               Average TRP (dBm)   
                                               UE width ≤ 72mm     UE width \> 72mm
n28 20 HL and HR  
n41 100 HL and HR 12.5 n78 100 HL and HR 13 n79 100 HL and HR
##### 6.2.1.1.2 NR FR1 in EN-DC mode
Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirement for NR FR1 bands (in EN-DC
mode) in the hand phantom browsing position and the primary mechanical mode
are defined in Tables 6.2.1.1.2-1 and 6.2.1.1.2-2.
Table 6.2.1.1.2-1: Handheld PC3 UE TRP minimum performance requirement for NR
FR1 bands (in EN-DC mode) in the hand phantom browsing position and the
primary mechanical mode
NR Band Bandwidth (MHz) Usage Scenario Power Class 3
* * *
                                               Average TRP (dBm)   
                                               UE width ≤ 72mm     UE width \> 72mm
n28 20 HL and HR  
n41 100 HL and HR  
n78 100 HL and HR  
n79 100 HL and HR
Table 6.2.1.1.2-2: Handheld PC2 UE TRP minimum performance requirement for NR
FR1 bands (in EN-DC mode) in the hand phantom browsing position and the
primary mechanical mode
NR Band Bandwidth (MHz) Usage Scenario Power Class 2
* * *
                                               Average TRP (dBm)   
                                               UE width ≤ 72mm     UE width \> 72mm
n28 20 HL and HR  
n41 100 HL and HR  
n78 100 HL and HR  
n79 100 HL and HR
#### 6.2.1.2 Beside the head and hand phantom talk mode
Beside the head and hand phantom mode positions are defined in Clause B.3.2 of
this specification.
##### 6.2.1.2.1 NR FR1
Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirement for NR FR1 bands in the beside
head and hand phantom talk position and the primary mechanical mode are
defined in Tables 6.2.1.2.1-1 and 6.2.1.2.1-2.
Table 6.2.1.2.1-1: Handheld PC3 UE TRP minimum performance requirement for NR
FR1 bands in the beside head and hand phantom talk position and the primary
mechanical mode
NR Band Bandwidth (MHz) Usage Scenario Power Class 3
* * *
                                               Average TRP (dBm)   
                                               UE width ≤ 72mm     UE width \> 72mm
n28 20 BHHL and BHHR  
n41 100 BHHL and BHHR  
n78 100 BHHL and BHHR  
n79 100 BHHL and BHHR
Table 6.2.1.2.1-2: Handheld PC2 UE TRP minimum performance requirement for NR
FR1 bands in the beside head and hand phantom talk position and the primary
mechanical mode
NR Band Bandwidth (MHz) Usage Scenario Power Class 2
* * *
                                               Average TRP (dBm)   
                                               UE width ≤ 72mm     UE width \> 72mm
n28 20 BHHL and BHHR  
n41 100 BHHL and BHHR  
n78 100 BHHL and BHHR  
n79 100 BHHL and BHHR
##### 6.2.1.2.2 NR FR1 in EN-DC mode
Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirement for NR FR1 bands (in EN-DC
mode) in the beside head and hand phantom talk position and the primary
mechanical mode are defined in Tables 6.2.1.2.2-1 and 6.2.1.2.2-2.
Table 6.2.1.2.2-1: Handheld PC3 UE TRP minimum performance requirement for NR
FR1 bands (in EN-DC mode) in the beside head and hand phantom talk position
and the primary mechanical mode
NR Band Bandwidth (MHz) Usage Scenario Power Class 3
* * *
                                               Average TRP (dBm)   
                                               UE width ≤ 72mm     UE width \> 72mm
n28 20 BHHL and BHHR  
n41 100 BHHL and BHHR  
n78 100 BHHL and BHHR  
n79 100 BHHL and BHHR
Table 6.2.1.2.2-2: Handheld PC2 UE TRP minimum performance requirement for NR
FR1 bands (in EN-DC mode) in the beside head and hand phantom talk position
and the primary mechanical mode
NR Band Bandwidth (MHz) Usage Scenario Power Class 2
* * *
                                               Average TRP (dBm)   
                                               UE width ≤ 72mm     UE width \> 72mm
n28 20 BHHL and BHHR  
n41 100 BHHL and BHHR  
n78 100 BHHL and BHHR  
n79 100 BHHL and BHHR
# 7 FR1 TRS requirements
## 7.1 General
The TRS requirements specified in Clause 7 apply to handheld UE configured
with maximum number of Rx antennas supported for each band, which is specified
in TS 38.101-1 Clause 7.3 [3].
The TRS requirements defined in Clause 7.2 should be verified based on the
detailed test parameters in Table 5.3-2.
## 7.2 Minimum requirement
### 7.2.1 Minimum requirement for handheld UE
The average measured total radiated sensitivity (TRS) of low, mid and high
channel for handheld UE shall be lower than the average TRS requirement
specified in subclauses 7.2.1.1 and 7.2.1.2. The averaging shall be done in
linear scale for the TRS results of both right and left side of the phantom
head in case of beside the head and hand phantom positions. For the hand
phantom browsing mode position the averaging shall be done in linear scale for
the TRP results of both right and left hand phantom measurements.
$$\text{TRS}_{\text{average}} = {10log}\left\lbrack
6/(\frac{1}{10^{\frac{P_{\text{left}_\text{low}}}{10}}} +
\frac{1}{10^{\frac{P_{\text{left}_\text{mid}}}{10}}} +
\frac{1}{10^{\frac{P_{\text{left}_\text{high}}}{10}}} +
\frac{1}{10^{\frac{P_{\text{right}_\text{low}}}{10}}} +
\frac{1}{10^{\frac{P_{\text{right}_\text{mid}}}{10}}} +
\frac{1}{10^{\frac{P_{\text{right}_\text{high}}}{10}}}) \right\rbrack$$
For UEs which do not support NR FR1 in stand-alone mode, EN-DC mode
requirements apply. SA and EN-DC test case applicability is defined in Clause
4.3, and test case applicability based on power class capability is defined in
Clause 4.4. The relevant test methodology is defined in Annexes A and B of
this specification.
#### 7.2.1.1 Hand phantom browsing mode
Hand phantom browsing mode positions are defined in Clause B.3.1.
##### 7.2.1.1.1 NR FR1
Handheld UE TRS minimum performance requirement for NR FR1 bands in the hand
phantom browsing position and the primary mechanical mode are defined in
Tables 7.2.1.1.1-1 and 7.2.1.1.1-2.
Table 7.2.1.1.1-1: Handheld PC3 and PC2 UE TRS minimum performance requirement
for NR FR1 bands in the hand phantom browsing position and the primary
mechanical mode
NR Band Bandwidth (MHz) Usage Scenario Power Class 3 and Power Class 2
* * *
                                               Average TRS (dBm)                 
                                               UE width ≤ 72mm                   UE width \> 72mm
n28 20 HL and HR  
n41 100 HL and HR -80 n78 100 HL and HR -81.2 n79 100 HL and HR
##### 7.2.1.1.2 NR FR1 in EN-DC mode
Handheld UE TRS minimum performance requirement for NR FR1 bands (in EN-DC
mode) in the hand phantom browsing position and the primary mechanical mode
are defined in Tables 6.2.1.1.2-1 and 6.2.1.1.2-2.
Table 7.2.1.1.2-1: Handheld PC3 and PC2 UE TRS minimum performance requirement
for NR FR1 bands (in EN-DC mode) in the hand phantom browsing position and the
primary mechanical mode
NR Band Bandwidth (MHz) Usage Scenario Power Class 3 and Power Class 2
* * *
                                               Average TRS (dBm)                 
                                               UE width ≤ 72mm                   UE width \> 72mm
n28 20 HL and HR  
n41 100 HL and HR  
n78 100 HL and HR  
n79 100 HL and HR
#### 7.2.1.2 Beside the head and hand phantom position
Beside the head and hand phantom mode positions are defined in Clause B.3.2.
##### 7.2.1.2.1 NR FR1
Handheld UE TRP minimum performance requirement for NR FR1 bands in the beside
head and hand phantom position and the primary mechanical mode are defined in
Tables 7.2.1.2.1-1 and 7.2.1.2.1-2.
Table 7.2.1.2.1-1: Handheld PC3 and PC2 UE TRS minimum performance requirement
for NR FR1 bands in the beside head and hand phantom position and the primary
mechanical mode
NR Band Bandwidth (MHz) Usage Scenario Power Class 3 and Power Class 2
* * *
                                               Average TRS (dBm)                 
                                               UE width ≤ 72mm                   UE width \> 72mm
n28 20 BHHL and BHHR  
n41 100 BHHL and BHHR  
n78 100 BHHL and BHHR  
n79 100 BHHL and BHHR
##### 7.2.1.2.2 NR FR1 in EN-DC mode
Handheld UE TRS minimum performance requirement for NR FR1 bands (in EN-DC
mode) in the beside head and hand phantom position and the primary mechanical
mode are defined in Tables 6.2.1.2.2-1 and 6.2.1.2.2-2.
Table 7.2.1.2.2-1: Handheld PC3 and PC2 UE TRS minimum performance requirement
for NR FR1 bands (in EN-DC mode) in the beside head and hand phantom position
and the primary mechanical mode
NR Band Bandwidth (MHz) Usage Scenario Power Class 3 and Power Class 2
* * *
                                               Average TRS (dBm)                 
                                               UE width ≤ 72mm                   UE width \> 72mm
n28 20 BHHL and BHHR  
n41 100 BHHL and BHHR  
n78 100 BHHL and BHHR  
n79 100 BHHL and BHHR
###### ## Annex A (normative): Test methodology
# A.1 General
TRP TRS minimum requirement specified in Clause 6 and Clause 7 should be
measured with Anechoic Chamber method.
# A.2 UE configuration
## A.2.1 General
For FR1 TRP and TRS radiated conformance testing, P-MPRc shall be 0 dB.
FR1 TRP and TRS radiated conformance testing shall be performed with the UE
consistently operating at maximum power level, e.g., Time-Averaged Algorithm
(TAA) and other power back-off functions should be disabled. The above
functions OFF should be based on manufacturer declaration, if declared, then
the manufacturer is required to provide a mechanism for the test lab to
enable/disable the function.
The NR SS should send continuous uplink power control "up" commands to the DUT
to ensure the DUT's transmitter is at maximum output power during the TRP and
TRS test.
## A.2.2 UE configuration for TRP test
For devices containing multiple Tx antennas, the Tx Antenna Switching (TAS)
function should be OFF, and the TRP should be measured for each Tx antenna
individually. The antenna with better TRP is identified as the primary
antenna, and the corresponding TRP result will be used to determine the
pass/fail compliance. Otherwise, the primary antenna should be selected based
on manufacturer declaration. To ensure the TAS OFF testing, the manufacture
should provide either software/guidance to lab to control which Tx antenna is
used, or the pre-configured DUT locked at primary antenna.
For Standalone, the NR System Simulator (SS) and DUT shall be configured per
TS 38.521-1 [5], section 6.2.1 (UE maximum output power) using the default
settings specified in TS 38.521-1 [5] and TS 38.508-1 [7] as applicable. The
measurement should be carried out based on the detailed test parameters for
each band, as defined in Clause 5 Table 5.3-1.
For EN-DC, the SS and DUT shall be configured per TS 38.521-3 [6], Section
6.2B.1 (UE Maximum Output Power for EN-DC) using the default settings
specified in TS 38.521-3 [6] and TS 38.508 [7] as applicable. The measurement
should be carried out based on the detailed test parameters for each band, as
defined in Clause 5 Table 5.3-1. The UL output power of LTE carrier should be
set as a constant power of 10dBm, while measuring NR at maximum output power,
i.e., with fixed p-MaxEUTRA-r15=10 dBm, and p-NR-FR1 not configured.
## A.2.3 UE configuration for TRS test
For TRS measurement, no specific setting is needed for Rx antennas. By
default, the maximum number of Rx antennas supported at each band should be
enabled during the TRS test.
For Standalone, the NR System Simulator (SS) and DUT shall be configured per
section 7.3.2 (Reference sensitivity power level) of TS 38.521-1 [5] using the
defaults specified in TS 38.521-1 [5] and TS 38.508-1 [7] as applicable. The
measurement should be carried out based on the detailed test parameters for
each band, as defined in Clause 5 Table 5.3-2.
For EN-DC, the EN-DC SS and DUT shall be configured per section 7.3B.2
(Reference Sensitivity for EN-DC) of TS 38.521-3 [6], using the defaults
specified in TS 38.521-3 [6] and TS 38.508 [7], as applicable. The measurement
should be carried out based on the detailed test parameters for each band, as
defined in Clause 5 Table 5.3-2. The UL power configuration for LTE and NR is
50%-50% power splitting, i.e.,
\- For PC3, p-MaxEUTRA-r15=20 dBm, and p-NR-FR1= 20dBm;
\- For PC2, p-MaxEUTRA-r15=23 dBm, and p-NR-FR1= 23dBm.
# A.3 Test system of Anechoic Chamber method
## A.3.1 System setup
For FR1 TRP TRS testing, both Single-antenna and multiple-antennas anechoic
chambers can be applied. In Figure A.3.1-1, an example TRP TRS test system
with combined axes system is presented.
{width="4.201388888888889in" height="2.1006944444444446in"}
Figure A.3.1-1: Example of a FR1 TRP TRS OTA test system with combined axis
In Figure A.3.1-2, an example TRP TRS test system with distributed axes system
is presented.
{width="4.127305336832896in" height="2.298611111111111in"}
Figure A.3.1-2: Example of a FR1 TRP TRS OTA test system with distributed axis
## A.3.2 Calibration procedure
The relative power values of the measurement points will be transformed to
absolute radiated power values (in dBm) by performing a range path loss
calibration measurement. The system needs to be calibrated by using a
reference calibration antenna with known gain values. In the range path loss
calibration measurement, the reference antenna is measured in the same place
as the DUT, i.e. the center of the QZ, and the attenuation of the complete
transmission path ($L_{\text{total}}$) from the DUT to the measurement
receiver/BS simulator is calibrated out.
{width="3.9652777777777777in" height="1.937224409448819in"}
Figure A.3.2-1: Example FR1 TRP TRS calibration setup
The calibration measurement is repeated for each measurement path (two
orthogonal polarizations and each signal path). The range path loss
calibration measurement is performed in a two-step process including total
path loss measurement and cable calibration.
Step 1: Cable calibration: the measurement of path loss _L~DE~_
$L_{\text{DE}}$~,~ by connecting the cable from D to E to the two ports of
VNA, and measure the cable path loss.
Step 2: Total path loss measurement: the measurement of total path loss
_L~BC~_ ;
1\. Place the reference calibration antenna (e.g. reference dipole) in the
center of the test zone aligned with θ polarization of the measurement
antenna, connected to a VNA port E, with the other VNA port C connected to the
input of the Switch box -- in Figure A.2.2-1.
2\. Configure the proper output power of VNA.
3\. Measure the response _L~CE~_ $L_{\text{CE}}\ $of each path from each θ
polarization of the measurement antenna to the reference antenna in the center
of QZ.
4\. Repeat the steps 1 to 3 with the reference antenna aligned with the ϕ
polarization of the measurement antenna.
Then, the $L_{\text{total}} = \left( L_{\text{CE}} - L_{\text{DE}} +
G_{\text{cal}} \right)$, Where _L~DE~_ $L_{\text{DE}}$ is cable loss from D to
E. $G_{\text{cal}}$ is the gain or efficiency of the calibration antenna at
the frequency of interest. In TRP and TRS measurements point C is connected to
the calibrated input/output port of measurement receiver.
This range path loss calibration procedure is common to both SA and EN-DC
measurements.
## A.3.3 Test procedure
### A.3.3.1 General
For TRP and TRS testing in SA or EN-DC mode, measurements should be only
performed at NR carrier. The LTE link antenna in EN-DC mode is used to provide
a stable LTE link to the DUT without precise path loss or polarization
control.
### A.3.3.2 TRP Test procedure
The TRP of the DUT is measured by sampling the radiated transmit power of the
DUT with three-dimensional scan at various locations surrounding the device.
The measurement is performed with a constant sampling step, e.g., 15 degrees
or 30 degrees, in both theta (θ) and phi (φ) axes for TRP measurement. For
some test system can not measure 180º EIRP, then the extrapolation approach
can be adopted when generating the 3D antenna pattern. All of the measured
power values will be integrated to TRP, as defined in Clause A.3.5.1.
For TRP measurement, the evaluations shall be performed at maximum transmit
power.
The measurement procedure includes the following steps:
1) Place the DUT inside the QZ following the positioning guideline defined in
Clause 6.
2) Connect the SS with the DUT through the link antenna following steps 1 and
2 in section 6.2.1.4.2 of TS 38.521-1 [5] and ensure the DUT transmits with
its maximum power.
> 3) Measure the power at each measurement point, and calculate
> $\text{EIRP}\left( \theta,\phi \right)$ by adding the composite loss of the
> entire transmission path.
The TRP value is calculated using the TRP integration approaches outlined in
Clause A.3.5.1.
This TRP test procedure is common to both SA and EN-DC measurements. The
detailed UE configurations for TRP test in SA and EN-DC mode are specified in
Clause A.2.
### A.3.3.3 TRS Test procedure
The TRS of the DUT is measured by sampling effective isotropic sensitivity
(EIS) of the DUT with three-dimensional scan at various locations surrounding
the device. The measurement is performed with a constant sampling step, e.g.,
30 degrees or 45 degree in both theta (θ) and phi (φ) axes for TRS
measurement.
EIS, or receiver sensitivity measurements, is defined as the minimum downlink
signal power received at the UE antenna input required to provide a data
throughput rate greater than or equal to 95% of the maximum throughput of the
reference measurement channel (RMC) (the maximum throughput is per Appendix A
of TS 38.521-1 [5]).
For TRS measurement, the evaluations shall be performed at maximum transmit
power.
The measurement procedure includes the following steps:
1) Place the DUT inside the QZ following the positioning guideline defined in
Clause 6.
2) Connect the SS with the DUT through the measurement antenna.
3) Follow steps 1 through 4 in section 7.3.2.4.2 of TS 38.521-1 [5], with the
following exception: determine each EIS, i.e., by adjusting the downlink
signal level until the minimum power level at which the throughput exceeds or
equal to 95% of the maximum throughput of the specified RMC, at each sampling
point. The downlink power step size shall be no more than 0.5 dB when the RF
power level is near the NR sensitivity level.
The TRS value is calculated using the equation and integration approaches
outlined in Clause A.3.5.2.
This TRS test procedure is common to both SA and EN-DC measurements. The
detailed UE configurations for TRS test in SA and EN-DC mode are specified in
Clause A.2.
## A.3.4 Minimum Range Length
This sub-section specifies the minimum range lengths for Anechoic-Chamber-
based FR1 TRP-TRS OTA systems. The range length is defined as the distance
from the centre of the quiet zone to the aperture of the measurement
probes/antennas, as illustrated in Figure A.3.4-1.
{width="2.3361111111111112in" height="2.3680555555555554in"}
Figure A.3.4-1: Illustration of range length definition
The minimum range length shall be the maximum of the following three limits
\- The phase uncertainty limit: _R_ ~QZ~+2 _D_ ~rad~^2^/λ
\- The amplitude uncertainty limit: 3 _D_
\- The reactive Near-Field limit: _R_ ~QZ~+2λ
where _R_ ~QZ~ is defined as the radius of the quiet zone, i.e., _R_ ~QZ~=_D_
/2, and _D_ ~rad~ is the diameter of the effective radiating aperture. The
minimum range length calculations for _D_ =30cm quiet zone size TRP-TRS OTA
test systems shall assume that _D_ ~rad~ is 30cm below 1GHz and decrease
linearly from 30cm to 5cm from 1GHz to 7.125GHz, respectively. The last column
of Table A.3.4-1 shall be considered the minimum range length for NR FR1 TRP-
TRS OTA systems with 30cm quiet zone size.
Table A.3.4-1: Minimum Range Length for NR FR1 TRP-TRS OTA systems with 30cm
quiet zone size.
_F_ [GHz] D~rad~ [m] R~QZ~+2 _D~rad~_ ²/λ 3 _D_ = 6 _R_ ~QZ~ R~QZ~+2λ
max(R~QZ~+2λ,3 _D_ ,R~QZ~+2 _D_ ²/λ)
* * *
0.41 0.30 0.40 0.9 1.61 1.61 0.6 0.30 0.51 0.9 1.15 1.15 0.7 0.30 0.57 0.9
1.01 1.01 0.8 0.30 0.63 0.9 0.90 0.90 1 0.30 0.75 0.9 0.75 0.90 1.2 0.29 0.83
0.9 0.65 0.90 1.4 0.28 0.90 0.9 0.58 0.90 1.6 0.28 0.96 0.9 0.52 0.96 1.8 0.27
1.01 0.9 0.48 1.01 2 0.26 1.05 0.9 0.45 1.05 2.2 0.25 1.07 0.9 0.42 1.07 2.4
0.24 1.09 0.9 0.40 1.09 2.6 0.23 1.11 0.9 0.38 1.11 2.8 0.23 1.11 0.9 0.36
1.11 3 0.22 1.10 0.9 0.35 1.10 4 0.18 0.99 0.9 0.30 0.99 5 0.14 0.77 0.9 0.27
0.90 6 0.10 0.52 0.9 0.25 0.90 7 0.06 0.29 0.9 0.24 0.90 7.125 0.05 0.27 0.9
0.23 0.90
## A.3.5 Definition of TRP and TRS for AC
### A.3.5.1 Total Radiated Power (TRP)
This definition is used to calculate the Total Radiated Power (TRP) value. For
Anechoic Chamber method, TRP is defined as:
$\text{TRP} = \ \frac{1}{4\pi}\int_{\theta = 0}^{\pi}{\int_{\phi =
0}^{2\pi}\left\lbrack \text{EIRP}_{\theta}\left( \theta,\phi \right) +
\text{EIRP}_{\phi}\left( \theta,\phi \right) \right\rbrack\sin{\left( \theta
\right)\text{dϕ}\text{dθ}}}$
Where the effective isotropic radiated power (EIRP) is defined as
$\text{EIRP}\left( \theta,\phi \right) = P_{T}G_{T}\left( \theta,\phi \right)$
Where $P_{T}G_{T}$ is the product of the power delivered to the antenna and
the antenna's power gain, and EIRP~θ~ and EIRP~ϕ~ are the EIRP in the
corresponding θ and ϕ polarizations.
The summation form based on the sinθ⋅∆θ weights of TRP with Anechoic Chamber
method is defined as:
$\text{TRP} \approx \ \frac{\pi}{2\text{NM}}\sum_{n = 0}^{N - 1}{\sum_{m =
0}^{M - 1}{\left\lbrack \text{EIRP}_{\theta}\left( \theta_{n},\phi_{m} \right)
+ \text{EIRP}_{\phi}\left( \theta_{n},\phi_{m} \right)
\right\rbrack\sin\theta_{n}}}$
Where N and M are the number of sampling intervals for θ and ϕ. θ~n~ and ϕ~m~
are the measurement angles.
The summation form based on the Clenshaw-Curtis quadrature integral
approximation of TRP with Anechoic Chamber method is defined as:
$\text{TRP} \approx \ \frac{1}{2M}\sum_{n = 0}^{N}{\sum_{m = 0}^{M -
1}\left\lbrack \text{EIRP}_{\theta}\left( \theta_{n},\phi_{m} \right) +
\text{EIRP}_{\phi}\left( \theta_{n},\phi_{m} \right) \right\rbrack}W\left(
\theta_{n} \right)$
Where the value of $W(\theta_{n})$ can be calculated as follows:
$W(\theta_{n}) = \frac{c_{n}}{N}\left\lbrack 1 - \sum_{j =
1}^{int(\frac{N}{2})}{\frac{b_{j}}{4j^{2} - 1}cos(2j\theta_{n})}
\right\rbrack$
with
$b_{j} = \left{ \text{\ \ \ \ }\begin{matrix} 1,\ \ 2j = \text{N\ \ \ \ \ \ \
} \ 2,\ \ \text{otherwise} \ \end{matrix} \right.\ $
and
$c_{n} = \left{ \begin{matrix} \ \ \ 1,\ \ n = 0\ or\ N \ \ \ \ 2,\ \
\text{otherwise} \ \end{matrix} \right.\ $
### A.3.5.2 Total Radiated Sensitivity (TRS)
This definition is used to calculate the Total Radiated Sensitivity (TRS)
value. For Anechoic Chamber method, the TRS with is defined as:
$\text{TRS} = \frac{4\pi}{\int_{\theta = 0}^{\pi}{\int_{\phi =
0}^{2\pi}{\left\lbrack \frac{1}{\text{EIS}_{\theta}\left( \theta,\phi \right)}
+ \frac{1}{\text{EIS}_{\phi}\left( \theta,\phi \right)}
\right\rbrack\sin\theta d\text{ϕdθ}}}}$
Where the effective isotropic sensitivity (_EIS_) is defined as the minimum
power level at which the throughput exceeds or equal to 95% of the maximum
throughput of the specified RMC, at each sampling point, and EIS~θ~ and EIS~ϕ~
are the EIS in the corresponding θ and ϕ polarizations.
The summation form based on the sinθ⋅∆θ weights of TRS with Anechoic Chamber
method defined as:
$\text{TRS} \approx \frac{2\text{NM}}{\pi\sum_{n = 0}^{N - 1}{\sum_{m = 0}^{M
- 1}{\left\lbrack \frac{1}{\text{EIS}_{\theta}\left( \theta_{n},\phi_{m}
\right)} + \frac{1}{\text{EIS}_{\phi}\left( \theta_{n},\phi_{m} \right)}
\right\rbrack\sin\theta_{n}}}}$
Where N and M are the number of sampling intervals for θ and ϕ. θ~n~ and ϕ~m~
are the measurement angles.
The summation form based on the Clenshaw-Curtis quadrature integral
approximation of TRS with Anechoic Chamber method is defined as:
$TRS \approx \frac{2M}{\sum_{n = 0}^{N}{\sum_{m = 0}^{M - 1}{\left\lbrack
\frac{1}{\text{EIS}_{\theta}\left( \theta_{n},\phi_{m} \right)} +
\frac{1}{\text{EIS}_{\phi}\left( \theta_{n},\phi_{m} \right)} \right\rbrack
W\left( \theta_{n} \right)}}}$
Where the value of $W(\theta_{n})$ can be calculated as follows (same equation
as TRP):
$W(\theta_{n}) = \frac{c_{n}}{N}\left\lbrack 1 - \sum_{j =
1}^{int(\frac{N}{2})}{\frac{b_{j}}{4j^{2} - 1}cos(2j\theta_{n})}
\right\rbrack$
with
$b_{j} = \left{ \text{\ \ \ \ }\begin{matrix} 1,\ \ 2j = \text{N\ \ \ \ \ \ \
} \ 2,\ \ \text{otherwise} \ \end{matrix} \right.\ $
and
$c_{n} = \left{ \begin{matrix} \ \ \ 1,\ \ n = 0\ or\ N \ \ \ \ 2,\ \
\text{otherwise} \ \end{matrix} \right.\ $
# A.4 Preliminary example MU budget
A.4.1 General
A.4.2 Test system of Anechoic Chamber method
The uncertainty contributions related to TRP are described in Annex B in [2].
A preliminary example uncertainty budget for TRP hand only test case using
Anechoic Chamber test system is presented in Table A.4.2-1.
Table A.4.2-1 Preliminary example of uncertainty budget for TRP hand only
(browsing mode) measurement for anechoic chamber method for NR FR1 bands
**UID** **Uncertainty Source** **Comment** **Uncertainty Value [dB]** **Prob
Distr** **Div** **ci** **Standard Uncertainty [dB]**
* * *
**Stage 2: DUT measurement**  
1 Mismatch of receiver chain Г~power\ meter~ \ cancels) 0 Rectangular 1.73 1 0.00 3 Influence of the
measurement antenna cable Systematic with Stage 1 (=> cancels) 0 Rectangular
1.73 1 0.00 4 Measurement Receiver: uncertainty of the absolute level Power
Meter 0.06 Rectangular 1.73 1 0.03 5 Measurement distance d=1.6m, Δd=0.05m
0.27 Rectangular 1.73 1 0.16 6 Quality of quiet zone Surface standard
deviation of power measurements in ripple test 0.5 Actual 1 1 0.50 7 DUT Tx-
power drift Drift 0.2 Rectangular 1.73 1 0.12 8 Uncertainty related to the use
of phantoms _U~ε~_ [dB] = 0.20 U~σ~ [dB] = 0.15 0.32 Rectangular 1.73 1 0.18 9
Coarse sampling grid Negligible 15° sampling grid 0 Actual 1 1 0.00 10 Random
Uncertainty Monoblock, clamshell and PDA design used for testing 0.81
Rectangular 1.73 1 0.47 11 Frequency Response Average path loss corrected 0
Rectangular 1.73 1 0.00 **Stage 1: Calibration measurement, network analyzer
method**  
12 Uncertainty of network analyzer Manufacturer's uncertainty 0.5 Rectangular
1.73 1 0.29 13 Mismatch of receiver chain Taken into account in VNA
uncertainty term 0 U-shaped 1.41 1 0.00 14 Insertion loss of receiver chain
Systematic with Stage 2 (=> cancels) 0 Rectangular 1.73 1 0.00 15 Mismatch in
the connection of calibration antenna Taken in to account in VNA setup
uncertainty 0 U-shaped 1.41 1 0.00 16 Influence of the calibration antenna
feed cable Gain calibration with a dipole 0.3 Rectangular 1.73 1 0.17 17
Influence of the measurement antenna cable Systematic with Stage 2 (=>
cancels) 0 Rectangular 1.73 1 0.00 18 Uncertainty of the absolute gain/
radiation efficiency of the calibration antenna Calibration certificate 0.5
Rectangular 1.73 1 0.29 19 Measurement distance Dipole: aligned with phase
center 0 Rectangular 1.73 1 0.00 20 Quality of the Quiet Zone Peak-to-null
ripple 0.5 Rectangular 1.73 1 0.29 **Combined standard uncertainty** **0.91**  
**Expanded uncertainty (Confidence interval of 95 %)** **1.78**
The uncertainty contributions related to TRS are described in Annex B in [2].
A preliminary _example uncertainty budget_ TRS hand only test case using
Anechoic Chamber test system _is presented in Table A.4.2-2._
Table A.4.2-2: Preliminary example of uncertainty budget for TRS hand only
(browsing mode) measurement for anechoic chamber method for NR FR1 bands
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | **U | * |** U | * | ** | * | **Sta | | UID** | ncert | _Comm | ncert |_ Prob | Div**| *ci** | ndard | | | ainty | ent**| ainty | Di | | | U | | | Sou | | Value | str** | | | ncert | | | rce**| | [d | | | | ainty | | | | | B]** | | | | [d | | | | | | | | | B]**| +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | ** | | | | | | | | | Stage | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | DUT | | | | | | | | | mea | | | | | | | | | surem | | | | | | | | | ent** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | Mis | Г~C | 0.07 | U-s | 1.41 | 1 | 0.05 | | | match | ommTe | | haped | | | | | | of | ster~ | | | | | | | | t | \ | | | | | | | | ransm |  | | | | | | | | itter | can | | | | | | | | chain | cels) | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | Infl | Syste | 0 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.00 | | | uence | matic | | ectan | | | | | | of | with | | gular | | | | | | the | Stage | | | | | | | | m | 1 | | | | | | | | easur | (=> | | | | | | | | ement | can | | | | | | | | an | cels) | | | | | | | | tenna | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | Com | Manu | 1 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.58 | | | munic | factu | | ectan | | | | | | ation | rer's | | gular | | | | | | Te | data | | | | | | | | ster: | sheet | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | ncert | | | | | | | | | ainty | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | abs | | | | | | | | | olute | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | utput | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | S | Step | 0.25 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.14 | | | ensit | of | | ectan | | | | | | ivity | 0.5 | | gular | | | | | | me | dB | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ment: | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | utput | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | step | | | | | | | | | resol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 | M | d= | 0.27 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.16 | | | easur | 1.6m, | | ectan | | | | | | ement | Δd= | | gular | | | | | | dis | 0.05m | | | | | | | | tance | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 7 | Qu | Su | 0.5 | A | 1 | 1 | 0.5 | | | ality | rface | | ctual | | | | | | of | sta | | | | | | | | quiet | ndard | | | | | | | | zone | devi | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | ipple | | | | | | | | | test | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 8 | DUT | Drift | 0.2 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.12 | | | s | m | | ectan | | | | | | ensit | easur | | gular | | | | | | ivity | ement | | | | | | | | drift | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 9 | U | * | 0.32 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.18 | | | ncert | U~ε~_| | ectan | | | | | | ainty | \ | | gular | | | | | | re | [dB] | | | | | | | | lated | = | | | | | | | | to | 0.20 | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | use | U~σ~ | | | | | | | | of | \ | | | | | | | | pha | [dB] | | | | | | | | ntoms | = | | | | | | | | | 0.15 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 10 | C | 30° | 0.15 | A | 1 | 1 | 0.15 | | | oarse | sam | | ctual | | | | | | sam | pling | | | | | | | | pling | grid | | | | | | | | grid | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 11 | R | Monob | 0.91 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.53 | | | andom | lock, | | ectan | | | | | | u | clam | | gular | | | | | | ncert | shell | | | | | | | | ainty | and | | | | | | | | | PDA | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | te | | | | | | | | | sting | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 12 | Freq | Inc | 0 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.00 | | | uency | luded | | ectan | | | | | | Res | in | | gular | | | | | | ponse | the | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | utput | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | step | | | | | | | | | resol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | | | | | | | | | Stage | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | | alibr | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ment, | | | | | | | | | ne | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | ana | | | | | | | | | lyzer | | | | | | | | | met | | | | | | | | | hod_ _| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 13 | U | Manu | 0.5 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.29 | | | ncert | factu | | ectan | | | | | | ainty | rer's | | gular | | | | | | of | u | | | | | | | | ne | ncert | | | | | | | | twork | ainty | | | | | | | | ana | c | | | | | | | | lyzer | alcul | | | | | | | | | ator, | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | overs | | | | | | | | | NA | | | | | | | | | setup | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 14 | Mis | Taken | 0 | U-s | 1.41 | 1 | 0.00 | | | match | in to | | haped | | | | | | of | ac | | | | | | | | t | count | | | | | | | | ransm | in | | | | | | | | itter | VNA | | | | | | | | chain | setup | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | ncert | | | | | | | | | ainty | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 15 | Inse | Syste | 0 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.00 | | | rtion | matic | | ectan | | | | | | loss | with | | gular | | | | | | of | Stage | | | | | | | | t | 2 | | | | | | | | ransm | (= > | | | | | | | | itter | can | | | | | | | | chain | cels) | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 16 | Mis | Taken | 0 | U-s | 1.41 | 1 | 0.00 | | | match | in to | | haped | | | | | | in | ac | | | | | | | | the | count | | | | | | | | conne | in | | | | | | | | ction | VNA | | | | | | | | of | setup | | | | | | | | c | u | | | | | | | | alibr | ncert | | | | | | | | ation | ainty | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | tenna | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 17 | Infl | Gain | 0.3 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.17 | | | uence | c | | ectan | | | | | | of | alibr | | gular | | | | | | the | ation | | | | | | | | c | with | | | | | | | | alibr | d | | | | | | | | ation | ipole | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | tenna | | | | | | | | | feed | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 18 | Infl | Syste | 0 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.00 | | | uence | matic | | ectan | | | | | | of | with | | gular | | | | | | the | Stage | | | | | | | | m | 2 | | | | | | | | easur | (=> | | | | | | | | ement | can | | | | | | | | an | cels) | | | | | | | | tenna | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 19 | U | C | 0.5 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.29 | | | ncert | alibr | | ectan | | | | | | ainty | ation | | gular | | | | | | of | c | | | | | | | | the | ertif | | | | | | | | abs | icate | | | | | | | | olute | | | | | | | | | gain/ | | | | | | | | | radi | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | effic | | | | | | | | | iency | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | alibr | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | tenna | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | M | Di | 0 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.00 | | | easur | pole: | | ectan | | | | | | ement | al | | gular | | | | | | dis | igned | | | | | | | | tance | with | | | | | | | | | phase | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | enter | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 21 | Qu | Pe | 0.5 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.29 | | | ality | ak-to | | ectan | | | | | | of | -null | | gular | | | | | | quiet | r | | | | | | | | zone | ipple | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | __Com |__1 | | | | | | | | bined | .12_ _| | | | | | | | sta | | | | | | | | | ndard | | | | | | | | | unc | | | | | | | | | ertai | | | | | | | | | nty_ _| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |__Exp |__2 | | | | | | | | anded | .20_ _| | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | ncert | | | | | | | | | ainty | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | Confi | | | | | | | | | dence | | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | | erval | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | 95 | | | | | | | | | %)_ * | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
###### ## Annex B (normative): Phantoms definition and Positioning
# B.1 General
This Clause defines the phantom definition and positioning guidance for TPR
TRS requirement measurement.
# B.2 Phantom Definition
## B.2.1 Head Phantom
The basic head phantom is based on the "SAM" head phantom in IEEE Std
1528-2003, which is also described in TS 37.544 Annex A.2 [8]. For TRP TRS
test, the IEEE SAM head model has been extended to the neck region, which is
specified in CTIA Certification OTA Test Plan [9].
The Head phantom defined in CTIA Certification OTA Test Plan section C.2 [9],
is used for FR1 TRP TRS requirement testing.
{width="4.266701662292213in" height="1.9242432195975503in"}
Figure B.2.1-1 Head Phantom (© 2001 -- 2022 CTIA Certification. Reproduced
with permission.), defined in the CTIA Certification OTA Test Plan
## B.2.2 PDA Grip Hand Phantom
The PDA Grip Hand described in TS 37.544 Annex A.2.2 [8], which is identical
to that defined in CTIA Certification OTA Test Plan section C.4.8 [9], is
adopted for TRP TRS testing for the UE with width ≥56mm and ≤72mm.
## B.2.3 Wide Grip Hand Phantom
The Wide Grip hand defined in CTIA Certification OTA Test Plan section C.4.9
[9], is used for FR1 TRP TRS testing for UE with width >72mm and ≤92mm.
{width="3.3309339457567804in" height="2.42296697287839in"}
Figure B.2.3-1 Wide Grip hand (© 2001 -- 2022 CTIA Certification. Reproduced
with permission.), defined in the CTIA Certification OTA Test Plan
# B.3 UE positioning guidelines
## B.3.1 Hand phantom only (Browsing mode)
The positioning specified in this clause is used for the test cases for
Browsing Mode with Hand Phantom. The characteristics of the Hand Phantom are
specified in Clause B.3.1. Browsing mode is used to simulate user cases where
the DUT is held in hand, but not pressed against ear e.g. web browsing and
navigation. The DUT should be set as primary mechanical mode for browsing mode
scenario, which is declared by manufacturer if the UE support multiple
mechanical modes. Then, the DUT shall be mounted in a suitable hand phantom
and oriented such that the DUT's main display is tilted 45 degrees from
vertical:
\- Wide Grip Hand for UE with Width >72mm and ≤92mm
\- PDA Grip Hand for UE with Width ≥56mm and ≤72mm
Note: the width is the UE width under primary mechanical mode for Browsing
mode scenario.
### B.3.1.1 Wide Grip Hand
This positioning guideline is suitable for DUTs with width >72mm and ≤92mm.
The positioning guideline defined in CTIA Certification OTA Test Plan section
A.1.4.4 [9], is used for FR1 TRP TRS testing for UE with width >72mm and
≤92mm.
{width="4.159315398075241in" height="3.0378794838145233in"}
Figure B.3.1.1-1: Positioning guidance for Wide Grip Hand (© 2001 -- 2022 CTIA
Certification. Reproduced with permission.), defined in the CTIA Certification
OTA Test Plan
### B.3.1.2 PDA Grip Hand
This positioning guideline is suitable for DUTs with width ≥56mm and ≤72mm.
To help achieve a consistent positioning, the DUT is aligned to a PDA palm
spacer. No alignment tool is required. The PDA spacer features side and bottom
walls to ensure consistent alignment of DUTs of various sizes.
1\. Place the DUT on the PDA spacer between the fingers and align the DUT to
the side wall of the PDA.
2\. If the DUT is shorter than 135 mm, then align the top of the DUT with the
top of the PDA spacer. Otherwise, align the bottom of the DUT with the bottom
wall of the PDA spacer.
3\. While keeping the DUT in the hand phantom in the position defined in
previous steps, place the DUT and the hand phantom against the head phantom in
such way that the DUT is in 6°tilt angle as described in Clause B.3.2.1.
{width="1.3441557305336833in" height="2.4293493000874893in"}
Figure 6.2.2-1: Right-handed PDA Grip hand phantom with a spacer
NOTE: Use left-handed (mirror-imaged) spacers with left-handed phantoms.
## B.3.2 Head and Hand phantom (Talk Mode)
### B.3.2.1 General
The positioning specified in this clause is used for the test cases for Talk
Mode using Head & Hand Phantom. The characteristics of the Hand Phantom and
Head Phantom are specified in Clause B.3.1.
Talk mode is used to simulate user cases where the DUT is placed into a hand
phantom, which is holding the DUT against the SAM head phantom, presenting a
realistic voice call operation of the DUT. The DUT should be set as primary
mechanical mode for talk mode scenario, which is declared by manufacturer if
the UE support multiple mechanical modes. Same as Browsing mode, the DUT for
talk mode shall also be mounted in a suitable hand phantom:
\- Wide Grip Hand for UE with Width >72mm and ≤92mm
\- PDA Grip Hand for UE with Width ≥56mm and ≤72mm
Note: the width is the UE width under primary mechanical mode for talk mode
scenario.
In this section, the procedure provides the guideline on how to place the
DUT+hand against the head phantom. The detailed DUT positioning into hand
phantom for talk mode is defined in Clause B.3.1.
For talk mode, the DUT is attached to the head phantom in "cheek" position.
The DUT performance is measured on both left and right side of the head. Three
points as shown in Figure B.3.2.1-1 define the reference plane: centre of the
right ear piece (RE), centre of the left ear piece (LE) and centre of mouth
(M).
Definition of the 'Cheek' position:
1\. Align the ear piece of the phone (see Figure B.3.2.1-1) at the line RE-LE.
Then, position the DUT beside the phantom so that the vertical line (see
Figure B.3.2.1-3) is parallel to the reference plane in Figure B.3.2.1-2 and
is aligned with the line M-RE on the reference plane (see Figure B.3.2.1-3).
2\. Position the DUT so that the ear piece of the DUT touches the ear piece of
the phantom head on the line RE-LE. Tilt the DUT chassis towards the cheek of
the phantom having the vertical line aligned with the reference plane until
any point on the front side of the DUT is in contact with the cheek or until
the contact with the ear is lost.
NOTE: A holder fixture made of e.g. plastic may be used to position the
handset against the phantom.
{width="2.0833333333333335in" height="1.5208333333333333in"}
Figure B.3.2.1-1: Reference plane on head phantom, front view
{width="1.4013888888888888in" height="1.4534722222222223in"}
Figure B.3.2.1-2: Reference plane on head phantom, side view
Figure B.3.2.1-3: Reference lines at a mobile handset.
In addition, 6°tilt angle from the cheek is being used instead of having
direct contact between the cheek and DUT. A mask may be used to help
configuration of cheek + 6° tilt angle. The mask is a 32 mm wide conformal
strip, created by sweeping the surface of the head phantom through a 6º
rotation about the ear. Direct DUT contact against the mask thus establishes
the required 6º spacing away from the cheek, regardless of DUT form factor.
The material for the head phantom mask spacer shall have dielectric constant
of less than 1.3 and a loss tangent of less than 0.003. Material additions can
be used to help fixing of the mask spacer onto the head phantom.
### B.3.2.2 Wide Grip Hand and Head
This procedure is suitable for talk mode use with DUTs of width >72mm and
≤92mm. The positioning of the DUT in the Wide Grip hand for talk mode is
identical to that for browsing mode described in Clause B.3.1.1.
### B.3.2.1 PDA Grip Hand and Head
This procedure is suitable for talk mode use with DUTs of width ≥56mm and
≤72mm. The positioning of the DUT in the PDA Grip hand for talk mode is
identical to that for browsing mode described in Clause B.3.1.2.
###### ## Annex C (normative): Environmental requirements
# C.1 General
This normative annex specifies the environmental requirements of the UE.
Within these limits the requirements of the present documents shall be
fulfilled.
# C.2 Environmental
The requirements in this clause apply to all types of UE(s).
## C.2.1 Temperature
All the test cases defined in this technical specification should be measured
in room temperature e.g. 25°C.
## C.2.2 Voltage
All test cases shall be performed with the DUT operated in stand-alone battery
powered mode. It is preferable if the UE is fully charged in the beginning of
the test.
#