# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical specification of the services provided by
the physical layer of 5G-NR to upper layers.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
[2] 3GPP TS 38.201: \"NR; Physical Layer -- General Description\"
[3] 3GPP TS 38.211: \"NR; Physical channels and modulation\"
[4] 3GPP TS 38.212: \"NR; Multiplexing and channel coding\"
[5] 3GPP TS 38.213: \"NR; Physical layer procedures for control\"
[6] 3GPP TS 38.214: \"NR; Physical layer procedures for data\"
[7] 3GPP TS 38.215: \"NR; Physical layer measurements\"
[8] 3GPP TS 38.306: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ARQ Automatic Repeat Request
BCH Broadcast Channel
CA Carrier Aggregation
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
DC Dual Connectivity
DL Downlink
FEC Forward Error Correction
GF Grant-Free
MAC Medium Access Control
MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output
PBCH Physical Broadcast Channel
PCH Paging Channel
PDCCH Physical Downlink Control Channel
PDSCH Physical Downlink Shared Channel
PRACH Physical Random Access Channel
PUCCH Physical Uplink Control Channel
PUSCH Physical Uplink Shared Channel
RACH Random Access Channel
RF Radio Frequency
RNTI Radio Network Temporary Identifier
SCH Shared Channel
SI System Information
SPS Semi-Persistent Scheduling
SRS Sounding Reference Signal
TPC Transmit Power Control
UL Uplink
# 4 Services and functions of the physical layer
## 4.1 General
The physical layer offers data transport services to higher layers.
The access to these services is through the use of transport channels via the
MAC sub-layer.
A transport block is defined as the data delivered by MAC layer to the
physical layer and vice versa.
## 4.2 Overview of L1 functions
As mentioned in [2, TS 38.201], the physical layer is expected to perform the
following functions to provide the data transport service:
\- Error detection on the transport channel and indication to higher layers;
\- FEC encoding/decoding of the transport channel;
\- Hybrid ARQ soft-combining;
\- Rate matching of the coded transport channel to physical channels;
\- Mapping of the coded transport channel onto physical channels;
\- Power weighting of physical channels;
\- Modulation and demodulation of physical channels;
\- Frequency and time synchronisation;
\- Radio characteristics measurements and indication to higher layers;
\- Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) antenna processing;
\- RF processing.
L1 functions are modelled for each transport channel in clause 5.
# 5 Model of physical layer of the UE
The 5G-NR physical-layer model captures those characteristics of the 5G-NR
physical-layer that are relevant from the point-of-view of higher layers. More
specifically, the physical-layer model captures:
\- The structure of higher-layer data being passed down to or up from the
physical layer;
\- The means by which higher layers can configure the physical layer;
\- The different indications (error indications, channel-quality indications,
etc.) that are provided by the physical layer to higher layers.
## 5.1 Uplink model
### 5.1.1 Uplink shared channel
The physical-layer model for Uplink Shared Channel transmission is described
based on the corresponding PUSCH physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure
5.1.1-1. Processing steps that are relevant for the physical-layer model, e.g.
in the sense that they are configurable by higher layers, are highlighted in
blue.
\- Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer
\- CRC and transport-block-error indication
\- FEC and rate _matching_
\- Data modulation
\- Mapping to physical resource
\- Multi-antenna processing
\- Support of L1 control and Hybrid-ARQ-related signalling
Figure 5.1.1-1: Physical-layer model for UL-SCH transmission
### 5.1.2 Random access channel
The physical-layer model for RACH transmission is characterized by a PRACH
preamble format that consists of a cyclic prefix, a preamble, and a guard time
during which nothing is transmitted.
## 5.2 Downlink model
### 5.2.1 Downlink shared channel
The physical-layer model for Downlink Shared Channel transmission is described
based on the corresponding PDSCH physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure
5.2.1-1. Processing steps that are relevant for the physical-layer model, e.g.
in the sense that they are configurable by higher layers, are highlighted in
blue.
\- Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer;
\- CRC and transport-block-error indication;
\- FEC and rate _matching;_
\- Data modulation;
\- Mapping to physical resource;
\- Multi-antenna processing;
\- Support of L1 control and Hybrid-ARQ-related signalling.
Figure 5.2.1-1: Physical-layer model for DL-SCH transmission
### 5.2.2 Broadcast channel
The physical-layer model for BCH transmission is characterized by a fixed pre-
defined transport format. There is one transport block for the BCH every 80ms.
The BCH physical-layer model is described based on the corresponding PBCH
physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure 5.2.2-1:
\- Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer;
\- CRC and transport-block-error indication;
\- FEC and rate _matching;_
\- Data modulation;
\- Mapping to physical resource;
\- Multi-antenna processing.
Figure 5.2.2-1: Physical-layer model for BCH transmission
### 5.2.3 Paging channel
The physical-layer model for PCH transmission is described based on the
corresponding physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure 5.2.3-1. The PCH is
carried on PDSCH. Processing steps that are relevant for the physical-layer
model, e.g. in the sense that they are configurable by higher layers, are
highlighted in blue.
\- Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer;
\- CRC and transport-block-error indication;
\- FEC and rate _matching;_
\- Data modulation;
\- Mapping to physical resource;
\- Multi-antenna processing.
Figure 5.2.3-1: Physical-layer model for PCH transmission
## 5.3 Sidelink model
### 5.3.1 Sidelink shared channel
The physical-layer model for Sidelink Shared Channel transmission is described
based on the corresponding SL-SCH physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure
5.3.1-1. Processing steps that are relevant for the physical-layer model, e.g.
in the sense that they are configurable by higher layers, are highlighted in
blue.
\- Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer;
\- CRC and transport-block-error indication;
\- FEC and rate _matching;_
\- Data modulation;
\- Mapping to physical resource;
\- Multi-antenna processing;
\- Support of L1 control and Hybrid-ARQ-related signalling.
Figure 5.3.1-1: Physical-layer model for SL-SCH transmission
### 5.3.2 Broadcast channel
The physical-layer model for Sidelink Broadcast Channel transmission is
characterized by a fixed pre-defined transport format. There is one transport
block for every slot in which the UE transmits SL-BCH, if the UE is configured
to transmit on SL-BCH. The SL-BCH physical-layer model is described based on
the corresponding SL-BCH physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure 5.3.2-1:
\- Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer;
\- CRC and transport-block-error indication;
\- FEC and rate _matching;_
\- Data modulation;
\- Mapping to physical resource;
\- Multi-antenna processing.
Figure 5.3.2-1: Physical-layer model for SL-BCH transmission
# 6 Simultaneous transmission and reception of physical channels and physical
signals
This clause describes the requirements from the UE to send and receive
multiple physical channels and physical signals simultaneously depending on
the capabilities and service requirements. The following notation is used
between both the uplink and downlink clauses below.
_\- p_ is the number of uplink carriers configured for the UE on which
physical channels can be transmitted
_\- p\'_ is the number of uplink carriers configured for the UE on which SRS
can be transmitted
_\- q_ is the number of downlink carriers configured for the UE
_\- j_ is the number of cell groups configured for the UE.
_\- k_ is the number of PUCCH groups configured for the UE.
## 6.1 Uplink
The tables 6.1-1 and 6.1-2 describe the possible combinations of physical
channels and SRS that can be sent in simultaneously in the uplink by one UE.
Table 6.1-1 introduces notation for a \"Transmission Type\" which represents a
physical channel or sounding reference signal, and any associated transport
channel. Table 6.1-2 describes the combinations of these \"Transmission
Types\" which are supported by the UE depending on capabilities [8, TS
38.306], and enumerates how many of each can be transmitted simultaneously.
Table 6.1-1: Uplink \"Transmission Types\"
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | \"Transmission | Physical | Associated\ | Comment | | Type\" | Channel or SRS | Transport | | | | | Channel | | +================+================+================+================+ | A | PRACH | RACH | Note 1, Note 3 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | B | PUCCH | N/A | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | C | PUSCH | UL-SCH | Note 2, Note 3 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | D | SRS | N/A | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Note 1: RACH | | | | | corresponds to | | | | | contention | | | | | based. | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: UCI on | | | | | PUSCH without | | | | | UL-SCH is | | | | | possible. | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: For | | | | | SCell, MsgA | | | | | PRACH and MsgA | | | | | PUSCH is not | | | | | supported. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 6.1-2: Uplink \"Transmission Type\" combinations
+----------------------------------------------------+----------------+ | Supported Combinations | Comment | +====================================================+================+ | _j_ x A | Note 1 | +----------------------------------------------------+----------------+ | _k_ x B | Note 2 | +----------------------------------------------------+----------------+ | _p_ x C | Note 3, Note 4 | +----------------------------------------------------+----------------+ | _p\'_ x D | Note 3, Note 5 | +----------------------------------------------------+----------------+ | $\widetilde{j} \times$ A + $\widetilde{k} \times$B | Note 6 | +----------------------------------------------------+----------------+ | $\widetilde{j} \times$ A + $\widetilde{p} \times$C | Note 6 | +----------------------------------------------------+----------------+ | $\widetilde{j} \times$ A + | Note 6 | | $\widetilde{p}' \times$D | | +----------------------------------------------------+----------------+ | $\widehat{k} \times$ B + $\widehat{p} \times$C | Note 8 | +----------------------------------------------------+----------------+ | B + $\widehat{p}' \times$C | Note 9 | +----------------------------------------------------+----------------+ | $\widetilde{k} \times$ B + | Note 7 | | $\widetilde{p}' \times$D | | +----------------------------------------------------+----------------+ | $\widetilde{p} \times$ C + | Note 7 | | $\widetilde{p}' \times$D | | +----------------------------------------------------+----------------+ | Note 1: The number of cell groups _j_ in the | | | supported combination is subject to UE capability. | | | | | | Note 2: The number of PUCCH groups _k_ in the | | | supported combination is subject to UE capability. | | | | | | Note 3: The number of carriers _p,_ and _p\'_ in | | | the supported combinations are subject to UE | | | capability. | | | | | | Note 4: In the case there is one SUL carrier, then | | | _p_ -1 would be supported. | | | | | | Note 5: UE may be configured with _p\'_ but may | | | also have capability to simultaneously sound less | | | than this number. | | | | | | Note 6: Simultaneous PRACH with PUCCH (or PUSCH or | | | SRS) is supported only in the case of inter-band | | | CA, with $\widetilde{j} \leq j$, | | | $\widetilde{k} \leq k$, $\widetilde{p} \leq p$, | | | and $\widetilde{p}' \leq p$\' depending on the | | | configuration, and subject to UE capability for | | | parallel transmission. | | | | | | Note 7: Simultaneous SRS with PUCCH (or PUSCH) is | | | supported only in the case of inter-band CA, with | | | $\widetilde{k} \leq k$, $\widetilde{p} \leq p$, | | | and $\widetilde{p}' \leq p$\' depending on the | | | configuration, and subject to UE capability for | | | parallel transmission. | | | | | | Note 8: Simultaneous PUCCH and PUSCH(s) for the | | | case that multiple PUCCH groups are configured and | | | the respective PUCCH and PUSCH(s) are transmitted | | | in the different PUCCH groups, with | | | $\widehat{k} < k$ and $\widehat{p} \leq p$. $k$ | | | and $p$ are subject to UE capability for supported | | | number of PUCCH groups and UL carriers, | | | respectively. $\widehat{k}$ and $\widehat{p}$ | | | depend on configuration. | | | | | | Note 9: Simultaneous PUCCH and PUSCH(s) within the | | | same PUCCH group in the case of inter-band CA, | | | ${\widehat{p}}^{'}\ $depending on the | | | configuration, and subject to UE capability for | | | parallel transmission of PUCCH and PUSCH within | | | the same PUCCH group. | | +----------------------------------------------------+----------------+
## 6.2 Downlink
The tables 6.2-1, 6.2-2 describe the possible combinations of physical
channels that can be received simultaneously in the downlink by one UE. Table
6.2-1 introduces notation for a \"Reception Type\" which represents a physical
channel and any associated transport channel. Table 6.2-2 describes the
combinations of these \"Reception Types\" which are supported by the UE
depending on capabilities [8, TS 38.306], and enumerates how many of each can
be received simultaneously. The UE shall be able to receive all TBs according
to the indication on PDCCH. Any subset of the combinations specified in table
6.2-2 is also supported.
Table 6.2-1: Downlink \"Reception Types\"
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | \"Reception | Physical | Monitored\ | Associated\ | Comment | | Type\" | Channel(s) | RNTI | Transport | | | | | | Channel | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | A | PBCH | N/A | BCH | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | B | PDCCH+PDSCH | SI-RNTI | DL-SCH | Note 1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | C0 | PDCCH | P-RNTI | N/A | Note 1, | | | | | | Note 2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | C1 | PDCCH+PDSCH | P-RNTI | PCH | Note 1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | D0 | PDCCH+PDSCH | RA-RNTI or | DL-SCH | Note 3 | | | | Temporary | | | | | | C-RNTI or | | | | | | MsgB-RNTI | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | D1 | PDCCH+PDSCH | C-RNTI, | DL-SCH | | | | | CS-RNTI, | | | | | | MCS-C-RNTI | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | D2 | PDCCH | C-RNTI, | DL-SCH | | | | | CS-RNTI, | | | | | | MCS-C-RNTI | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | D3 | PDCCH+PDSCH | G-RNTI, | DL-SCH | Note 6 | | | | G-CS-RNTI | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | D4 | PDCCH | G-CS-RNTI | N/A | Note 7 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | D5 | PDCCH+PDSCH | MCCH-RNTI | DL-SCH | Note 8 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | D6 | PDCCH+PDSCH | G-RNTI | DL-SCH | Note 9 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | D7 | PDCCH+PDSCH | C-RNTI | DL-SCH | Note 10 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E | PDCCH | C-RNTI | N/A | Note 4 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | F0 | PDCCH | Temporary | UL-SCH | Note 3 | | | | C-RNTI | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | F1 | PDCCH | C-RNTI, | UL-SCH | | | | | CS-RNTI, | | | | | | MCS-C-RNTI | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | F2 | PDCCH | C-RNTI, | UL-SCH | Note 10 | | | | CS-RNTI | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | G | PDCCH | SFI-RNTI | N/A | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | H | PDCCH | INT-RNTI | N/A | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | J0 | PDCCH | TPC | N/A | | | | | -PUSCH-RNTI | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | J1 | PDCCH | TPC | N/A | | | | | -PUCCH-RNTI | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | J2 | PDCCH | T | N/A | | | | | PC-SRS-RNTI | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | K | PDCCH | SP-CSI-RNTI | N/A | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | L0 | PDCCH | SL-RNTI | SL-SCH | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | L1 | PDCCH | SL-CS-RNTI | SL-SCH | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | M | PDCCH | SL | SL-SCH | Note 5 | | | | Semi | | | | | | -Persistent | | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | | V-RNTI | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | N | PDCCH | PS-RNTI | N/A | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | O | PDCCH | AI-RNTI | N/A | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | P | PDCCH | CI-RNTI | N/A | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | [Q]{ | [PDCCH]{ | [PEI-RNTI]{ | [N/A]{ | Note 1 | | .underline} | .underline} | .underline} | .underline} | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | These are | | | | | | received | | | | | | from PCell | | | | | | only. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: In | | | | | | some cases | | | | | | UE is only | | | | | | required to | | | | | | monitor the | | | | | | short | | | | | | message | | | | | | within the | | | | | | DCI for | | | | | | P-RNTI. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: | | | | | | These are | | | | | | received | | | | | | from PCell | | | | | | or PSCell. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: | | | | | | This | | | | | | corresponds | | | | | | to | | | | | | PD | | | | | | CCH-ordered | | | | | | PRACH. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 5: | | | | | | This | | | | | | corresponds | | | | | | to PDCCH | | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | LTE PC5. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 6: | | | | | | This is for | | | | | | multicast | | | | | | in RRC | | | | | | connected | | | | | | state. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 7: | | | | | | This | | | | | | corresponds | | | | | | to DL | | | | | | Semi | | | | | | -Persistent | | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | | release for | | | | | | multicast | | | | | | in RRC | | | | | | connected | | | | | | state. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 8: | | | | | | This is for | | | | | | broadcast | | | | | | MCCH. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 9: | | | | | | This is for | | | | | | broadcast | | | | | | MTCH. UE is | | | | | | not | | | | | | required to | | | | | | decode more | | | | | | than one | | | | | | PDSCH for | | | | | | MTCH | | | | | | simu | | | | | | ltaneously. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 10: | | | | | | This is for | | | | | | small data | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | in RRC | | | | | | inactive | | | | | | state. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 6.2-2: Downlink \"Reception Type\" combinations
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Supported | Comment | | | | Combinations | | | | +================+================+================+================+ | PCell | PSCell | SCell | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1. RRC_IDLE | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1.1 All UEs | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | A + (B and/or | | | Note 1 | | (C1 or Q) | | | | | and/or D0) + | | | | | F0 | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1.2 UEs | | | | | supporting MBS | | | | | broadcast | | | | | reception [ | | | | | ]{.underline} | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | A+D5 | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 2. | | | | | RRC_INACTIVE | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 2.1 All UEs | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | A + (B and/or | | | Note 1 | | (C0 or C1 or | | | | | Q) and/or (D0 | | | | | or D7)) + (F0 | | | | | or F2) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 2.2 UEs | | | | | supporting MBS | | | | | broadcast | | | | | reception [ | | | | | ]{.underline} | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | A+D5 | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 3. | | | | | RRC_CONNECTED | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | (A + ((C0 + (B | (A + (D0 or | m1*D1 + | Note 2, Note | | and/or (D0 or | (m | m2*D2 + | 3, Note 4, | | (m1 | 1*D1+m2*D2)) | (( | Note 5, Note | | *D1+m2*D2+(( | + E + F0 + | m3*D3+m4*D4) | 6, Note 7, | | m3*D3+m4*D4) | n*F1 + G + H | or m5*(D5 or | Note 8, Note | | or m5*(D5 or | + J0 + J1 + J2 | D6)) + E + | 9, Note 10, | | D6))))) + E + | + K + O + N + | n*F1 + G + H | Note 11, Note | | F0 + n*F1 + G | P) | | 12, Note13, | | + H + J0 + J1 | | + J0 + J1 + | Note 14 | | + J2 + K + O + | | J2 + K + O + | | | L0 + L1 + M + | | L0 + L1 + M + | | | N + P) or D5)) | | P | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Note 1: UE is | | | | | not required | | | | | to decode more | | | | | than two PDSCH | | | | | s | | | | | imultaneously, | | | | | and decoding | | | | | prioritization | | | | | when more than | | | | | two are | | | | | received is up | | | | | to UE | | | | | i | | | | | mplementation. | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: For | | | | | PCell, UE is | | | | | not required | | | | | to decode | | | | | SI-RNTI PDSCH | | | | | simultaneously | | | | | with C-RNTI | | | | | PDSCH, unless | | | | | in FR1. | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: | | | | | Supported | | | | | combinations | | | | | are subject to | | | | | UE | | | | | capabilities | | | | | for dual | | | | | connectivity, | | | | | carrier | | | | | aggregation, | | | | | receiving of | | | | | group TPC | | | | | commands, | | | | | pre-emption | | | | | indication and | | | | | dynamic SFI | | | | | monitoring. | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: The | | | | | values of m2 ≥ | | | | | 0 and n≥ 0 in | | | | | the supported | | | | | combinations | | | | | are subject to | | | | | the UE | | | | | capability. | | | | | | | | | | Note 5: | | | | | Support of | | | | | monitoring | | | | | PDCCH with | | | | | SL-RNTI, | | | | | SL-CS-RNTI, SL | | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | V-RNTI are | | | | | subject to UE | | | | | capability. | | | | | | | | | | Note 6: The | | | | | values of m1 ≥ | | | | | 1 in the | | | | | supported | | | | | combinations | | | | | are subject to | | | | | the UE | | | | | capability. | | | | | | | | | | Note 7: In | | | | | Active time, a | | | | | UE is not | | | | | expected to | | | | | monitor the | | | | | DCI format for | | | | | the PDCCH | | | | | scrambled by | | | | | PS-RNTI. | | | | | | | | | | Note 8: The | | | | | PDCCH | | | | | scrambled by | | | | | PS-RNTI can | | | | | only be | | | | | configured on | | | | | the PCell and | | | | | PSCell. | | | | | | | | | | Note 9: For a | | | | | UE supporting | | | | | MBS multicast | | | | | reception, the | | | | | values of 1 ≥ | | | | | m3 ≥ 0 and m4 | | | | | ≥ 0 are | | | | | subject to UE | | | | | capability and | | | | | applicable to | | | | | RRC connected | | | | | UEs. If m3 = | | | | | 1, then m1 ≤ | | | | | 1. | | | | | | | | | | Note 10: For a | | | | | UE supporting | | | | | MBS multicast | | | | | or broadcast | | | | | reception, the | | | | | UE is not | | | | | expected to be | | | | | configured | | | | | simultaneously | | | | | with more than | | | | | one component | | | | | carrier for | | | | | multicast or | | | | | broadcast | | | | | reception. | | | | | | | | | | Note 11: For a | | | | | UE supporting | | | | | MBS broadcast | | | | | reception, the | | | | | values of 1≥m5 | | | | | ≥ 0 are | | | | | subject to UE | | | | | capability and | | | | | applicable to | | | | | RRC connected | | | | | UEs. If m5=1, | | | | | then m1≤1. | | | | | | | | | | Note 12: For a | | | | | UE supporting | | | | | MBS broadcast | | | | | reception in | | | | | RRC_CONNECTED | | | | | state, it is | | | | | required to | | | | | support | | | | | reception of | | | | | FDMed MCCH | | | | | PDSCH and PBCH | | | | | in Pcell. | | | | | | | | | | Note 13: For a | | | | | UE supporting | | | | | MBS multicast | | | | | or broadcast | | | | | reception in | | | | | RRC_CONNECTED | | | | | state, it is | | | | | not required | | | | | to support | | | | | reception of | | | | | FDMed MCCH | | | | | P | | | | | DSCH/broadcast | | | | | MTCH | | | | | P | | | | | DSCH/multicast | | | | | MTCH PDSCH and | | | | | SIB PDSCH in | | | | | PCell. | | | | | | | | | | Note 14: For a | | | | | UE supporting | | | | | MBS multicast | | | | | or broadcast | | | | | reception in | | | | | RRC_CONNECTED | | | | | state, it is | | | | | not required | | | | | to support | | | | | reception of | | | | | FDMed | | | | | broadcast MTCH | | | | | P | | | | | DSCH/multicast | | | | | MTCH PDSCH and | | | | | PBCH in PCell. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 6.3 Sidelink
The tables 6.3-1 and 6.3-2 describe the possible combinations of physical
channels that can be sent simultaneously in the sidelink by a UE. Table 6.3-1
introduces notation for a sidelink \"Transmission Type\" which represents a
physical channel, and any associated transport channel. Table 6.3-2 describes
the combinations of these \"Transmission Types\" which are supported by the UE
depending on capabilities [8, TS 38.306], and enumerates how many of each can
be transmitted simultaneously.
Table 6.3-1: Sidelink \"Transmission Types\"
* * *
\"Transmission Type\" Physical Channel Associated\ Comment Transport Channel
* * *
A PSBCH SL-BCH
B PSSCH SL-SCH
C PSCCH SL-SCH
D PSFCH N/A
* * *
Table 6.3-2: Sidelink \"Transmission Type\" combinations
Supported Combinations Comment
* * *
A  
B  
C  
$N \times$ D  
B+C  
Note: Depending on the UE capability, the UE may be able to perform
simultaneous Uplink and Sidelink transmissions. If the simultaneous
transmission of Sidelink and Uplink is beyond the UE capability, the one not
prioritized can be dropped according to [TS 38.321.
The tables 6.3-3 and 6.3-4 describe the possible combinations of physical
channels that can be received simultaneously in the sidelink by a UE. Table
6.3-3 introduces notation for a sidelink \"Reception Type\" which represents a
physical channel, and any associated transport channel. Table 6.3-4 describes
the combinations of these \"Transmission Types\" which are supported by the UE
depending on capabilities [8, TS 38.306], and enumerates how many of each can
be received simultaneously.
Table 6.3-3: Sidelink \"Reception Types\"
* * *
\"Transmission Type\" Physical Channel Associated\ Comment Transport Channel
* * *
A PSBCH SL-BCH
B PSSCH SL-SCH
C PSCCH SL-SCH
D PSFCH N/A
* * *
Table 6.3-4: Sidelink \"Reception Type\" combinations
Supported Combinations Comment
* * *
A  
B Note 1 C Note 1 $M \times$ D  
B+C Note 1 Note 1: Corresponds to simultaneous reception within one sub-
channel
# 7 Measurements provided by the physical layer
## 7.1 UE measurements
The list and detailed definition of UE measurements is provided in [7, TS
38.215].
#