# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, certain modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
NOTE 1: The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the
context of normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
NOTE 2: The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as
substitutes for \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as
possible, and they are not used in a normative context except in a direct
citation from an external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain
continuity of style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a
referenced document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
NOTE 3: The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
NOTE 4: The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" shall not to be used as
substitutes for \"may\" and \"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
NOTE 5: The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides description of the Backhaul Adaptation Protocol
(BAP).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NG Radio Access Network; Overall description\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
Specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.322: \"NR Radio Link Control (RLC) protocol specification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 38.473: \"NG-RAN F1 application protocol (F1AP) protocol
specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 38.401: \"NG-RAN; Architecture description\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**BH RLC channel:** an RLC channel between two nodes, which is used to
transport backhaul packets, as defined in TS 38.300 [2]**.**
**Boundary IAB-node** : an IAB-node with one RRC interface terminating at a
different IAB-donor-CU than the F1 interface, as defined in TS 38.401 [6].
**Egress BH RLC channel:** a BH RLC channel on which a packet is transmitted
by a node.
**Egress link** : a radio link on which a packet is transmitted by a node.
**F1-terminating donor** : refers to the IAB-donor that terminates F1 for the
boundary IAB-node, as defined in TS 38.401 [6].
**IAB-donor** : as defined in TS 38.300 [2].
**IAB-donor-DU** : as defined in TS 38.401 [6].
**IAB-node** : as defined in TS 38.300 [2].
**Ingress BH RLC channel:** a BH RLC channel on which a packet is received by
a node.
**Ingress link** : a radio link on which a packet is received by a node.
**Non-F1-terminating donor** : refers to the IAB-donor that has an RRC
connection with the boundary node but does not terminate F1 with this boundary
IAB-node, as defined in TS 38.401 [6].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
BH Backhaul
DSCP Differentiated Services Code Point
IAB Integrated Access and Backhaul
MT Mobile Termination
TEID Tunnel Endpoint Identifier
# 4 General
## 4.1 Introduction
The present document describes the functionalities of BAP.
## 4.2 Architecture
### 4.2.1 BAP structure
Figure 4.2.1-1 represents one possible structure for the BAP sublayer; it
should not restrict implementation. The figure is based on the radio interface
protocol architecture defined in TS 38.300 [2].
Figure 4.2.1-1: BAP layer, structure view
The BAP sublayer is configured by upper layers TS 38.331 [3] and TS 38.473
[5].
### 4.2.2 BAP entities
On the IAB-node, the BAP sublayer contains one BAP entity at the MT function
and a separate collocated BAP entity at the DU function. On the IAB-donor-DU,
the BAP sublayer contains only one BAP entity. Each BAP entity has a
transmitting part and a receiving part.
NOTE: The modelling of BAP entities does not restrict internal implementation
of IAB-nodes, i.e. the exact modelling of BAP sublayer may vary for different
IAB-node implementations.
The transmitting part of the BAP entity has a corresponding receiving part of
a BAP entity at the IAB-node or IAB-donor-DU across the BH link.
Figure 4.2.2-1 shows one example of the functional view of the BAP sublayer.
This functional view should not restrict implementation. The figure is based
on the radio interface protocol architecture defined in TS 38.300 [2].
In the example of Figure 4.2.2-1, the receiving part on the BAP entity
delivers BAP PDUs to the transmitting part on the collocated BAP entity.
Alternatively, the receiving part may deliver BAP SDUs to the collocated
transmitting part. When passing BAP SDUs, the receiving part removes the BAP
header and the transmitting part adds the BAP header with the same BAP header
content as carried on the BAP PDU header prior to removal. Passing BAP SDUs in
this manner is therefore functionally equivalent to passing BAP PDUs, in
implementation. The following specification therefore refers to the passing of
BAP Data Packets.
Besides, BAP entity generates, delivers/receives BAP Control PDU(s) as
described in clause 6.1.2. BAP Control PDU can only be exchanged between peer
BAP entities across the BH link.
In addition to the functions shown in Figure 4.2.2-1, the transmitting part of
the BAP entity may perform BAP header rewriting operation, in accordance with
clause 5.2.1.
Figure 4.2.2-1. Example of functional view of BAP sublayer
## 4.3 Services
### 4.3.1 Services provided to upper layers
The following services are provided by the BAP sublayer to upper layers:
\- data transfer.
### 4.3.2 Services expected from lower layers
A BAP sublayer expects the following services from lower layers per RLC entity
(for a detailed description see TS 38.322 [4]):
\- acknowledged data transfer service;
\- unacknowledged data transfer service.
## 4.4 Functions
The BAP sublayer supports the following functions:
\- Data transfer;
\- Determination of BAP destination and path for packets from upper layers;
\- Determination of egress BH RLC channels for packets routed to next hop;
\- Routing of packets to next hop;
\- BAP header rewriting;
\- Differentiating traffic to be delivered to upper layers from traffic to be
delivered to egress link;
\- Flow control feedback and polling signalling;
\- Handling of BH RLF related indications;
## 4.5 Configurations
The configuration of the BAP entity includes:
\- The IAB-node\'s BAP address(es) via RRC.
\- The IAB-donor-DU\'s BAP address via F1AP.
\- Mapping from next hop BAP address to downstream egress link via F1AP.
\- Mapping from next hop BAP address to upstream egress link via RRC.
\- Mapping from upper layer traffic to BAP routing ID in BAP header via F1AP
and RRC.
\- The BAP routing entries via F1AP.
\- Mapping to egress BH RLC channels via F1AP and RRC.
\- Flow control feedback type(s) to be provided, if any, via RRC.
\- Inter-donor-DU re-routing enabling/disabling via F1AP.
BH RLC channels are configured via RRC on the IAB-MT, and via F1AP on the IAB-
DU/IAB-donor-DU.
For F1AP configurations, the following mapping, which are derived from the
original F1AP signaling, are used in procedure:
\- Uplink Traffic to Routing ID Mapping Configuration.
\- Downlink Traffic to Routing ID Mapping Configuration.
\- BH Routing Configuration.
\- BH RLC Channel Mapping Configuration.
\- Uplink Traffic to BH RLC Channel Mapping Configuration.
\- Downlink Traffic to BH RLC Channel Mapping Configuration.
\- Header Rewriting Configuration.
# 5 Procedures
## 5.1 BAP entity handling
### 5.1.1 BAP entity establishment
When upper layers request establishment of a BAP entity, the node shall:
\- establish a BAP entity;
\- follow the procedures in clause 5.
### 5.1.2 BAP entity release
When upper layers request release of a BAP entity, the node shall:
\- release the BAP entity and the related BAP configurations.
## 5.2 Data transfer
### 5.2.1 Transmitting operation
#### 5.2.1.1 General
The transmitting part of the BAP entity on the IAB-MT can receive BAP SDUs
from upper layers and BAP Data Packets from the receiving part of the BAP
entity on the IAB-DU of the same IAB-node, and construct BAP Data PDUs as
needed (see clause 4.2.2). The transmitting part of the BAP entity on the IAB-
DU can receive BAP Data Packets from the receiving part of the BAP entity on
the IAB-MT of the same IAB-node, and construct BAP Data PDUs as needed (see
clause 4.2.2). The transmitting part of the BAP entity on the IAB-donor-DU can
receive BAP SDUs from upper layers, and construct BAP Data PDUs as needed (see
clause 4.2.2).
Upon receiving a BAP SDU from upper layers, the transmitting part of the BAP
entity shall:
\- select a BAP address and a BAP path identity for this BAP SDU in accordance
with clause 5.2.1.2;
\- construct a BAP Data PDU by adding a BAP header to the BAP SDU, where the
DESTINATION field is set to the selected BAP address and the PATH field is set
to the selected BAP path identity, in accordance with clause 6.2.2;
When the BAP entity has a BAP Data PDU to transmit, the transmitting part of
the BAP entity shall:
\- for the boundary IAB-node, if the BAP Data PDU is received from the
collocated BAP entity, perform the BAP header rewriting operation (if
configured) in accordance with clause 5.2.1.5;
\- perform routing to determine the egress link in accordance with clause
5.2.1.3;
\- determine the egress BH RLC channel in accordance with clause 5.2.1.4;
\- submit this BAP Data PDU to the selected egress BH RLC channel of the
selected egress link.
NOTE: Data buffering on the transmitting part of the BAP entity, e.g., until
RLC-AM entity has received an acknowledgement, is up to implementation. In
case of BH RLF, the transmitting part of the BAP entity may reroute the BAP
Data PDUs, which has not been acknowledged by lower layer before the BH RLF,
to an alternative path in accordance with clause 5.2.1.3.
#### 5.2.1.2 BAP routing ID selection
##### 5.2.1.2.1 BAP routing ID selection at IAB-node
At an IAB-node, for a BAP SDU received from upper layers and to be transmitted
in upstream direction, the BAP entity performs mapping to a BAP address and
BAP path identity based on:
\- Uplink Traffic to Routing ID Mapping Configuration, which is derived from
F1AP on the IAB-node in TS 38.473 [5],
\- _defaultUL-BAP-RoutingID_ , which is configured by RRC on the IAB-node in
TS 38.331[3].
Each entry of the Uplink Traffic to Routing ID Mapping Configuration contains:
\- a traffic type specifier, which is indicated by _UL UP TNL Information_ IE
for F1-U packets and _Non-UP Traffic Type_ IE for non-F1-U packets in TS
38.473 [5],
\- a BAP routing ID, which includes a BAP address and a BAP path identity,
indicated by _BAP Routing ID_ IE in _BH Information_ IE in TS 38.473 [5], and
\- a Topology indicator, indicating whether the BAP routing ID belongs to the
non-F1-terminating donor topology, which is optionally indicated by
_Non-F1-terminating IAB-donor Topology Indicator_ IE.
At the IAB-node, for a BAP SDU received from upper layers and to be
transmitted in upstream direction, the BAP entity shall:
_\- if_ the Uplink Traffic to Routing ID Mapping Configuration has not been
(re)configured by F1AP after the last (re)configuration of _defaultUL-BAP-
RoutingID_ by RRC:
\- select the BAP address and the BAP path identity as configured by
_defaultUL-BAP-RoutingID_ in TS 38.331 [3] for non-F1-U packets;
\- else:
\- for the BAP SDU encapsulating an F1-U packet:
\- select an entry from the Uplink Traffic to Routing ID Mapping Configuration
with its traffic type specifier corresponds to the destination IP address and
TEID of this BAP SDU;
\- for the BAP SDU encapsulating a non-F1-U packet:
\- select an entry from the Uplink Traffic to Routing ID Mapping Configuration
with its traffic type specifier corresponds to the traffic type of this BAP
SDU;
\- select the BAP address and the BAP path identity from the BAP routing ID in
the entry selected above;
\- if the selected entry is configured with _Non-F1-terminating IAB-donor
Topology Indicator_ IE:
\- consider this BAP Data PDU as data to be routed to non-F1-terminating donor
topology.
NOTE: Uplink Traffic to Routing ID Mapping Configuration may contain multiple
entries for F1-C traffic. It is up to IAB node\'s implementation to decide
which entry is selected.
##### 5.2.1.2.2 BAP routing ID selection at IAB-donor-DU
For a BAP SDU received from upper layer at the IAB-donor-DU, the BAP entity
performs mapping to a BAP address and a BAP Path identity based on:
\- Downlink Traffic to Routing ID Mapping Configuration, which is derived from
_IP-to-layer-2 traffic mapping Information List_ IE configured on the IAB-
donor-DU in TS 38.473 [5].
Each entry of the Downlink Traffic to Routing ID Mapping Configuration
contains:
\- a destination IP address, which is indicated by _Destination IAB TNL
Address_ IE in _IP header information_ IE, including an IPv4 address or IPv6
address or an IPv6 address prefix,
\- an IPv6 flow label, if configured, which is indicated by _IPv6 Flow Label_
IE in _IP header information_ IE,
\- a DSCP, if configured, which is indicated by _DSCP_ IE in _DS Information
List_ IE in _IP header information_ IE, and
\- a BAP routing ID, which is indicated by _BAP Routing ID_ IE in _BH
Information_ IE in TS 38.473 [5].
At the IAB-donor-DU, for a BAP SDU received from upper layers and to be
transmitted in downstream direction, the BAP entity shall:
_-_ for the BAP SDU encapsulating an IPv6 packet:
\- select an entry from the Downlink Traffic to Routing ID Mapping
Configuration which fulfils the following conditions:
\- the Destination IP address of this BAP SDU matches the destination IP
address in this entry; and
\- the IPv6 Flow Label of this BAP SDU matches IPv6 flow label in this entry
if configured; and
\- the DSCP of this BAP SDU matches DSCP in this entry if configured;
\- for the BAP SDU encapsulating an IPv4 packet:
\- select an entry from the Downlink Traffic to Routing ID Mapping
Configuration which fulfils the following conditions:
\- the Destination IP address of this BAP SDU matches the destination IP
address in this entry; and
\- the DSCP of this BAP SDU matches DSCP in this entry if configured;
\- select the BAP address and the BAP path identity from the BAP routing ID in
the entry selected above;
#### 5.2.1.3 Routing
The BAP entity performs routing based on:
\- the BH Routing Configuration derived from an F1AP message as specified in
TS 38.473 [5].
Each entry of the BH Routing Configuration contains:
\- a BAP Routing ID consisting of a BAP address and a BAP path identity, which
is indicated by _BAP Routing ID_ IE,
\- a Next Hop BAP Address which is indicated by _Next-Hop BAP Address_ IE, and
\- a Topology indicator, indicating whether the entry belongs to the
non-F1-terminating donor topology, which is optionally indicated by
_Non-F1-terminating IAB-donor Topology Indicator_ IE.
In the BH Routing Configuration, the entry configured with _Non-F1-terminating
IAB-donor Topology Indicator_ IE applies to the BAP Data PDU considered as
data to be routed to non-F1-terminating donor topology, and the entry not
configured with _Non-F1-terminating IAB-donor Topology Indicator_ IE only
applies to the BAP Data PDU not considered as data to be routed to
non-F1-terminating donor topology.
For a BAP Data PDU to be transmitted, BAP entity shall:
\- if the BAP Data PDU corresponds to a BAP SDU received from the upper layer,
and
\- if the BH Routing Configuration has not been (re)configured by F1AP after
the last (re)configuration of _defaultUL-BH-RLC-Channel_ by RRC:
\- select the egress link on which the egress BH RLC channel corresponding to
_defaultUL-BH-RLC-Channel_ is configured as specified in TS 38.331 [3] for
non-F1-U packets;
\- else if there is an entry in the BH Routing Configuration whose BAP address
matches the DESTINATION field, whose BAP path identity is the same as the PATH
field, and whose egress link corresponding to the Next Hop BAP Address is
available:
\- select the egress link corresponding to the Next Hop BAP Address of the
entry;
NOTE 1: An egress link is not considered to be available if the link is in BH
RLF.
NOTE 2: For each combination of a BAP address and a BAP path identity, there
should be at most one entry with the same Topology indicator in the BH Routing
Configuration. There could be multiple entries of the same BAP address with
the same Topology indicator in the BH Routing Configuration.
NOTE 3: An egress link may not be considered available for a BH Routing
Configuration _entry with a given_ BAP routing ID, if it is determined as
congested, e.g. based on the received flow control feedback, as defined in
clause 5.3.1.
\- else if there is at least one entry in the BH Routing Configuration whose
BAP address matches the DESTINATION field, and whose egress link corresponding
to the Next Hop BAP Address is available:
\- select an entry from the BH Routing Configuration whose BAP address is the
same as the DESTINATION field, and whose egress link corresponding to the Next
Hop BAP Address is available;
\- select the egress link corresponding to the Next Hop BAP Address of the
entry selected above;
\- else if, for the transmitting part of IAB-MT, at least one egress link is
available, and if _Re-routing Enable Indicator_ IE is set to true by F1AP:
\- if this egress link belongs to F1-terminating donor topology of the
boundary IAB-node or the transmitting part of IAB-MT is not at the boundary
IAB-node, and there is an entry in the BH Routing Configuration not configured
with _Non-F1-terminating IAB-donor Topology Indicator_ IE whose Next Hop BAP
Address corresponds to this egress link, or
\- if this egress link belongs to non-F1-terminating donor topology, and there
is an entry in the BH Routing Configuration configured with
_Non-F1-terminating IAB-donor Topology Indicator_ IE whose Next Hop BAP
Address corresponds to this egress link:
\- select the egress link;
\- rewrite the BAP header of this BAP Data PDU, where the DESTINATION field is
set to the leftmost 10 bits of BAP Routing ID of the entry in the BH Routing
Configuration (i.e. BAP address), and the PATH field is set to the rightmost
10 bits of BAP Routing ID of the entry (i.e. BAP path identity).
#### 5.2.1.4 Mapping to BH RLC Channel
##### 5.2.1.4.1 Mapping to BH RLC Channel for BAP Data Packets from collocated
BAP entity at IAB-node
For a BAP Data Packet received from the collocated BAP entity, the
transmitting part of the BAP entity performs mapping to an egress BH RLC
channel based on:
\- BH RLC Channel Mapping Configuration, which is derived from _BAP layer BH
RLC channel mapping Information List_ IE, and optionally together with the
_Configured BAP address IE and_ the _BH RLC Channel to be Setup/Modified List_
IE, as configured on the IAB-node in TS 38.473 [5],
Each entry of the BH RLC Channel Mapping Configuration contains:
\- an ingress link ID, which is indicated by _Prior-Hop BAP Address_ IE, or by
the _Configured BAP address_ IE in UE-associated F1AP message for upstream,
belonging to topology indicated by _Ingress Non-F1-terminating IAB-donor
Topology Indicator_ IE in F1AP if configured,
\- an egress link ID, which is indicated by _Next-Hop BAP Address_ IE, or by
the _Configured BAP address_ IE in UE-associated F1AP message for downstream,
belonging to topology indicated by _Egress Non-F1-terminating IAB-donor
Topology Indicator_ IE in F1AP if configured,
\- an ingress BH RLC channel ID, which is indicated by _Ingress BH RLC CH ID_
IE, or by the _BH RLC CH ID_ IE in UE-associated F1AP message for upstream,
and,
\- an egress BH RLC channel ID, which is indicated by _Egress BH RLC CH ID_
IE, or by the _BH RLC CH ID_ IE in UE-associated F1AP message for downstream.
For a BAP Data PDU received from an ingress BH RLC channel of an ingress link
and for which the egress link has been selected as specified in clause
5.2.1.3:
\- if there is an entry in the BH RLC Channel Mapping Configuration, whose
ingress BH RLC channel ID matches the BAP Data PDU\'s ingress BH RLC channel,
whose ingress link ID matches the BAP Data PDU\'s ingress link, and whose
egress link ID corresponds to the selected egress link;
\- select the egress BH RLC channel corresponding to egress BH RLC channel ID
of this entry;
\- else:
\- select any egress BH RLC channel on the selected egress link;
##### 5.2.1.4.2 Mapping to BH RLC Channel for BAP SDUs from upper layers at
IAB-node
For a BAP SDU received from upper layers at the IAB-node, the BAP entity
performs mapping to an egress BH RLC channel based on:
\- Uplink Traffic to BH RLC Channel Mapping Configuration, which is derived
from F1AP message, configured on the IAB-node in TS 38.473 [5],
\- _defaultUL-BH-RLC-Channel_ , which is configured by RRC on the IAB-node in
TS 38.331[3].
Each entry of the Uplink Traffic to BH RLC Channel Mapping Configuration
contains:
\- a traffic type specifier, which is indicated by _UL UP TNL Information_ IE
for F1-U packets or _Non-UP Traffic Type_ IE for non-F1-U packets in TS 38.473
[5],
\- an egress link ID, which is indicated by _Next-Hop BAP address_ IE in _BH
Information_ IE in TS 38.473 [5], belonging to topology indicated by _Egress
Non-F1-terminating IAB-donor Topology Indicator_ IE in F1AP if configured, and
\- an egress BH RLC channel ID, which is indicated by _BH RLC CH ID_ IE in _BH
Information_ IE in TS 38.473 [5].
For a BAP SDU received from upper layers at the IAB-node and to be transmitted
in upstream direction, whose egress link has been selected as specified in
clause 5.2.1.3, the BAP entity shall:
\- if the Uplink Traffic to BH RLC Channel Mapping Configuration _has not been
(re)configured by F1AP after the last (re)configuration of defaultUL-BH-RLC-
Channel_ by RRC:
\- select the egress BH RLC channel corresponding to _defaultUL-BH-RLC-
Channel_ configured in TS 38.331 [3] for non-F1-U packets;
_-_ else:
_-_ for the BAP SDU encapsulating an F1-U packet:
\- if there is an entry in the Uplink Traffic to BH RLC Channel Mapping
Configuration with its traffic type specifier corresponds to the destination
IP address and TEID of this BAP SDU and its egress link ID corresponding to
the selected egress link;
\- select the egress BH RLC channel corresponding to the egress BH RLC channel
ID of this entry;
\- else:
\- select any egress BH RLC channel on the selected egress link;
_\- for_ the BAP SDU encapsulating a non-F1-U packet:
\- if there is an entry from the Uplink Traffic to BH RLC Channel Mapping
Configuration with its traffic type specifier corresponds to the traffic type
of this BAP SDU and its egress link ID corresponding to the selected egress
link;
\- select the egress BH RLC channel corresponding to the egress BH RLC channel
ID of this entry;
\- else:
\- select any egress BH RLC channel on the selected egress link;
NOTE: Uplink Traffic to BH RLC Channel Mapping Configuration may contain
multiple entries for F1-C traffic. It is up to IAB node\'s implementation to
decide which entry is selected, but the selected entry has to match the BAP
routing ID selected in 5.2.1.2.1, i.e. BAP routing ID and BH RLC channel must
be derived from the same _BH Information_ IE.
##### 5.2.1.4.3 Mapping to BH RLC Channel at IAB-donor-DU
For a BAP SDU received from upper layers at the IAB-donor-DU, the BAP entity
performs mapping to an egress BH RLC channel based on:
\- Downlink Traffic to BH RLC Channel Mapping Configuration, which is derived
from _IP-to-layer-2 traffic mapping Information List_ IE, and optionally
together with the _Configured BAP address IE and_ the _BH RLC Channel to be
Setup/Modified List_ IE, as configured on the IAB-donor-DU in TS 38.473 [5].
Each entry of the Downlink Traffic to BH RLC Channel Mapping Configuration
contains:
\- a destination IP address, which is indicated by _Destination IAB TNL
Address_ IE in _IP header information_ IE including an IPv4 address or IPv6
address or an IPv6 address prefix,
\- an IPv6 flow label, if configured, which is indicated by _IPv6 Flow Label_
IE in _IP header information_ IE,
\- a DSCP, if configured, which is indicated by _DSCP_ IE in _DS Information
List_ IE in _IP header information_ IE,
\- an egress link ID, which is indicated by _Next-Hop BAP Address_ IE in _BH
Information_ IE, or by the _Configured BAP address_ IE in UE-associated F1AP
message, and
\- an egress BH RLC channel ID, which is indicated by _Egress BH RLC CH ID_ IE
in _BH Information_ IE, or by the _BH RLC CH ID_ IE in UE-associated F1AP
message.
At the IAB-donor-DU, for a BAP SDU received from upper layers and to be
transmitted in downstream direction, whose egress link has been selected as
specified in clause 5.2.1.3, the BAP entity shall:
_-_ for the BAP SDU encapsulating an IPv6 packet:
\- if there is an entry in the Downlink Traffic to BH RLC Channel Mapping
Configuration with its egress link ID corresponding to the selected egress
link, and the entry fulfils the following conditions:
\- the Destination IP address of this BAP SDU matches the destination IP
address in this entry; and
\- the IPv6 Flow Label of this BAP SDU matches IPv6 flow label in this entry
if configured; and
\- the DSCP of this BAP SDU matches DSCP in this entry if configured:
\- select the egress BH RLC channel corresponding to egress BH RLC channel ID
of this entry;
\- else:
\- select any egress BH RLC channel on the selected egress link;
_-_ for the BAP SDU encapsulating an IPv4 packet:
\- if there is an entry in the Downlink Traffic to BH RLC Channel Mapping
Configuration with its egress link ID corresponding to the selected egress
link, and the entry fulfils the following conditions:
\- the Destination IP address of this BAP SDU matches the destination IP
address in this entry; and
\- the DSCP of this BAP SDU matches DSCP in this entry if configured:
\- select the egress BH RLC channel corresponding to egress BH RLC channel ID
of this entry;
\- else:
\- select any egress BH RLC channel on the selected egress link;
5.2.1.5 BAP header rewriting operation
The BAP entity performs BAP header rewriting based on:
\- the Header Rewriting Configuration derived from an F1AP message as
specified in TS 38.473 [5].
Each entry of the Header Rewriting Configuration contains:
\- an Ingress Routing ID consisting of a BAP address and a BAP path identity
of the BAP Data PDU, which is indicated by _Ingress BAP Routing ID_ IE, and
\- an Egress Routing ID consisting of a BAP address and a BAP path identity of
the BAP Data PDU, which is indicated by **_Egress BAP Routing ID_** IE, and
\- a Topology indicator, indicating whether the Egress Routing ID belongs to
the non-F1-terminating donor topology, which is optionally indicated by
_Non-F1-terminating IAB-donor Topology Indicator_ IE.
For each BAP Data PDU to be considered for BAP header rewriting, the BAP
entity shall:
\- for the IAB-MT of boundary IAB-node, if there is an entry in the Header
Rewriting Configuration configured with _Non-F1-terminating IAB-donor Topology
Indicator_ IE, whose BAP address of Ingress Routing ID matches the DESTINATION
field, and whose BAP path identity of Ingress Routing ID matches the PATH
field:
\- rewrite the BAP header of this BAP Data PDU, where the DESTINATION field is
set to the leftmost 10 bits of Egress Routing ID of the entry (i.e. BAP
address), and the PATH field is set to the rightmost 10 bits of Egress Routing
ID of the entry (i.e. BAP path identity);
\- consider this BAP Data PDU as data to be routed to non-F1-terminating donor
topology;
\- for the IAB-DU of boundary IAB-node, if the ingress link of this BAP Data
PDU belongs to non-F1-terminating donor topology of the boundary IAB-node; and
\- if there is an entry in the Header Rewriting Configuration not configured
with _Non-F1-terminating IAB-donor Topology Indicator_ IE, whose BAP address
of Ingress Routing ID matches the DESTINATION field, and whose BAP path
identity of Ingress Routing ID matches the PATH field:
\- rewrite the BAP header of this BAP Data PDU, where the DESTINATION field is
set to the leftmost 10 bits of Egress Routing ID of the entry (i.e. BAP
address), and the PATH field is set to the rightmost 10 bits of Egress Routing
ID of the entry (i.e. BAP path identity).
NOTE: In this specification, a BH link belongs to the topology of the IAB-
donor that provides the configuration of that BH link, as specified in TS
38.331 [3].
### 5.2.2 Receiving operation
Upon receiving a BAP Data PDU from lower layer (i.e. ingress BH RLC channel),
the receiving part of the BAP entity shall:
\- if DESTINATION field of this BAP Data PDU matches the BAP address, which is
configured for this IAB-node by the IAB-donor providing this ingress BH RLC
channel configuration:
\- remove the BAP header of this BAP Data PDU and deliver the BAP SDU to upper
layers;
\- else:
\- deliver the BAP Data Packet to the transmitting part of the collocated BAP
entity.
## 5.3 Flow control
### 5.3.1 Flow control feedback
#### 5.3.1.1 Transmitting operation
For a link, the BAP entity at the IAB-MT shall:
\- when a flow control feedback is triggered due to the buffer load exceeding
a certain level, or
\- when a BAP Control PDU for flow control polling is received at the
receiving part, the transmitting part of this BAP entity shall:
\- construct a BAP Control PDU for flow control feedback per BH RLC channel,
if configured by RRC, in accordance with clause 6.2.3;
\- construct a BAP Control PDU for flow control feedback per BAP routing ID,
if configured by RRC, in accordance with clause 6.2.3;
\- if the egress BH RLC channel for the BAP Control PDU is configured as
specified in TS 38.473 [5]:
\- submit the BAP Control PDU(s) to the configured egress BH RLC channel of
the egress link, indicated by _Egress BH RLC CH ID_ IE in _BH Information_ IE
associated with _Non-UP Traffic Type_ IE set to _BAP control PDU_ in TS 38.473
[5];
\- else:
\- submit the BAP Control PDU(s) to any egress BH RLC channel of the egress
link.
NOTE: The BH RLC channel(s) and BAP routing ID(s) to be included in the flow
control feedback is up to IAB node implementation, once triggered.
#### 5.3.1.2 Receiving operation
For a link, upon receiving a BAP Control PDU for flow control feedback per BAP
routing ID from lower layer, the BAP entity at the IAB-DU or IAB-donor-DU may:
\- if the available buffer size as indicated by the received BAP Control PDU
for flow control feedback per BAP routing ID is less than the _Buffer Size
Threshold_ IE, configured by F1AP in TS 38.473 [5]:
\- consider the BH link as congested for this BAP routing ID (for routing
defined in accordance with clause 5.2.1.3).
### 5.3.2 Flow control polling
When a flow control polling is to be transmitted over an egress link, the
transmitting part of the BAP entity at the IAB-DU or IAB-donor-DU:
\- construct a BAP Control PDU for flow control polling in accordance with
clause 6.2.3:
\- if the egress BH RLC channel for the BAP Control PDU is configured as
specified in TS 38.473 [5]:
\- submit this BAP Control PDU to the configured egress BH RLC channel of the
egress link, indicated by _BH RLC CH ID_ IE which is associated with _BAP
Control PDU Channel_ IE that is set to true in TS 38.473[5];
\- else:
\- submit this BAP Control PDU to any egress BH RLC channel of the egress
link.
## 5.4 BH RLF related indications
### 5.4.1 Transmitting operation
When a BH RLF recovery failure is detected at the IAB-MT, for each egress link
associated with the IAB-DU, the transmitting part of the collocated BAP entity
at the IAB-DU may:
\- construct a BAP Control PDU for BH RLF indication in accordance with clause
6.2.3.3;
When BH RLF(s) occur at the IAB-MT on all the link(s) providing F1 interface
over BAP, for each egress link associated with the IAB-DU, the transmitting
part of the collocated BAP entity at the IAB-DU may:
\- construct a BAP Control PDU for BH RLF detection indication in accordance
with clause 6.2.3.4;
When BH RLF recovery is successful at the IAB-MT, for each egress link
associated with the IAB-DU on which a BAP Control PDU for BH RLF detection
indication was transmitted, the transmitting part of the collocated BAP entity
at the IAB-DU shall:
\- construct a BAP Control PDU for BH RLF recovery indication in accordance
with clause 6.2.3.5;
For any constructed BAP Control PDU above, the BAP entity shall:
\- if the egress BH RLC channel for the BAP control PDU is configured as
specified in TS 38.473 [5]:
\- submit this BAP Control PDU to the configured egress BH RLC channel of the
egress link, indicated by _BH RLC CH ID_ IE which is associated with _BAP
Control PDU Channel_ that is set to true in TS 38.473 [5];
\- else:
\- submit this BAP Control PDU to any egress BH RLC channel of the egress
link.
### 5.4.2 Receiving operation
Upon receiving a BAP Control PDU for BH RLF indication from lower layer (i.e.
ingress BH RLC channel), the receiving part of the BAP entity shall:
\- indicate to upper layers that the BH RLF indication has been received for
the ingress link where this BAP Control PDU is received.
Upon receiving a BAP Control PDU for BH RLF detection indication from lower
layer (i.e. ingress BH RLC channel), the receiving part of the BAP entity
shall:
\- consider the BH link, from which this BAP Control PDU is received, as not
available (for routing defined in accordance with clause 5.2.1.3).
Upon receiving a BAP Control PDU for BH RLF recovery indication from lower
layer (i.e. ingress BH RLC channel), the receiving part of the BAP entity
shall:
\- consider the BH link, from which this BAP Control PDU is received, to be
available again (for routing defined in accordance with clause 5.2.1.3).
## 5.5 Handling of unknown, unforeseen, and erroneous protocol data
When a BAP Data PDU contains a BAP address which is not included in the
applied entries of BH Routing Configuration during Routing operation in
accordance with clause 5.2.1.3 and the BAP Data PDU contains a BAP address
which is not the BAP address of this node in accordance with clause 5.2.2 upon
receiving; or
when a BAP Control PDU that contains reserved or invalid values is received
the BAP entity shall:
\- discard the received BAP PDU.
# 6 Protocol data units, formats, and parameters
## 6.1 Protocol data units
### 6.1.1 Data PDU
The BAP Data PDU is used to convey one of the following in addition to the PDU
header:
\- upper layer data.
### 6.1.2 Control PDU
The BAP Control PDU is used to convey one of the following in addition to the
PDU header:
\- flow control feedback per BH RLC channel;
\- flow control feedback per BAP routing ID;
\- flow control polling;
\- BH RLF related indication;
## 6.2 Formats
### 6.2.1 General
A BAP PDU is a bit string that is byte aligned (i.e. multiple of 8 bits) in
length. The formats of BAP PDUs are described in clause 6.2.2, 6.2.3 and their
parameters are described in clause 6.3.
### 6.2.2 Data PDU
Figure 6.2.2-1 shows the format of the BAP Data PDU.
Figure 6.2.2-1: BAP Data PDU format
### 6.2.3 Control PDU
#### 6.2.3.1 Control PDU for flow control feedback
Figure 6.2.3.1-1 and 6.2.3.1-2 show the formats of the BAP Control PDU for
flow control feedback.
Figure 6.2.3.1-1: BAP Control PDU format for flow control feedback per BH RLC
channel
Figure 6.2.3.1-2: BAP Control PDU format for flow control feedback per BAP
routing ID
#### 6.2.3.2 Control PDU for flow control polling
Figure 6.2.3.2-1 shows the formats of the BAP Control PDU for flow control
polling.
Figure 6.2.3.2-1: BAP Control PDU format for flow control feedback polling
#### 6.2.3.3 Control PDU for BH RLF indication
Figure 6.2.3.3-1 shows the format of the BAP Control PDU for BH RLF
indication.
Figure 6.2.3.3-1: BAP Control PDU format for BH RLF indication
#### 6.2.3.4 Control PDU for BH RLF detection indication
Figure 6.2.3.4-1 shows the format of the BAP Control PDU for BH RLF detection
indication.
Figure 6.2.3.4-1: BAP Control PDU format for BH RLF detection indication
#### 6.2.3.5 Control PDU for BH RLF recovery indication
Figure 6.2.3.5-1 shows the format of the BAP Control PDU for BH RLF recovery
indication.
Figure 6.2.3.5-1: BAP Control PDU format for BH RLF recovery indication
## 6.3 Parameters
### 6.3.1 General
If not otherwise mentioned in the definition of each field, the bits in the
parameters shall be interpreted as follows: the left most bit string is the
first and most significant and the right most bit is the last and least
significant bit.
Unless otherwise mentioned, integers are encoded in standard binary encoding
for unsigned integers. In all cases the bits appear ordered from MSB to LSB
when read in the PDU.
### 6.3.2 DESTINATION
Length: 10 bits.
This field carries the BAP address of the destination IAB-node or IAB-donor-
DU.
### 6.3.3 PATH
Length: 10 bits.
This field carries the BAP path identity.
### 6.3.4 Data
Length: Variable
This field carries the BAP SDU (i.e. IP packet).
### 6.3.5 R
Length: 1 bit
Reserved. In this version of the specification reserved bits shall be set to
0. Reserved bits shall be ignored by the receiver.
### 6.3.6 D/C
Length: 1 bit
This field indicates whether the corresponding BAP PDU is a BAP Data PDU or a
BAP Control PDU.
Table 6.3.6-1: D/C field
* * *
Bit Description 0 BAP Control PDU 1 BAP Data PDU
* * *
### 6.3.7 PDU type
Length: 4 bits
This field indicates the type of control information included in the
corresponding BAP Control PDU.
Table 6.3.7-1: PDU type
* * *
Bit Description 0000 Flow control feedback per BH RLC channel 0001 Flow
control feedback per BAP routing ID 0010 Flow control feedback polling 0011 BH
RLF indication 0100 BH RLF detection indication 0101 BH RLF recovery
indication 0110-1111 Reserved
* * *
### 6.3.8 BH RLC channel ID
Length: 16 bits.
This field indicates the identity of the BH RLC channel whose flow control
information is provided in the flow control feedback.
### 6.3.9 BAP Routing ID
Length: 20 bits.
This field indicates BAP routing identity, for which the flow control
information is provided in the flow control feedback. It contains the BAP
address in the leftmost 10 bits and the BAP path identity in the rightmost 10
bits.
### 6.3.10 Available Buffer Size
Length: 24 bits.
This field indicates the maximum traffic volume the transmitter should send.
The unit is kilobyte.
#