# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
> Version x.y.z
>
> where:
>
> x the first digit:
>
> 1 presented to TSG for information;
>
> 2 presented to TSG for approval;
>
> 3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
>
> y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
> technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the standards allowed to implement layer 1 on
the NG interface.
The specification of transmission delay requirements and O&M requirements are
not in the scope of the present document.
In the following, \'layer 1\' and \'physical layer\' are assumed to be
synonymous.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Introduction
The main functions of layer 1 are summarized in the following:
\- Interface to physical medium;
\- Frame delineation;
\- Line clock extraction capability;
\- Layer 1 alarms extraction and generation;
\- Transmission quality control.
# 5 Layer 1 specifications
The support of any suitable layer 1 technique - like point-to-point or point-
to-multipoint techniques - shall not be prevented.
# 6 Interface to management plane
The description of the interface towards the management plane is out of scope
of this document, but at least the following O&M functions should be foreseen:
\- Performance monitoring functions;
\- Alarm status reporting functions;
\- Synchronisation source management.
#