# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the standards for user data transport protocols
and related signalling protocols to establish user plane transport bearers
over the NG interface.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 29.281: \"General Packet Radio System (GPRS) Tunnelling Protocol
User Plane (GTPv1-U)\".
[4] IETF RFC 768 (1980-08): \"User Datagram Protocol\".
[5] IETF RFC 8200 (2017-07): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6)
Specification\".
[6] IETF RFC 791 (1981-09): \"Internet Protocol\".
[7] IETF RFC 2474 (1998-12): \"Definition of the Differentiated Services Field
(DS Field) in the Ipv4 and Ipv6 Headers\".
[8] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR and NG-RAN Overall Description Stage 2\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**gNB** : as defined in TS 38.300 [8].
**ng-eNB** : as defined in TS 38.300 [8].
**NG-RAN node** : as defined in TS 38.300 [8].
**NG-U** : **as** defined **in TS 38.300 [8]**.
**PDU Session:** **as** defined **in TS 23.501[2]**.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5GC 5G Core
5QI 5G QoS Identifier
AMF Access and Mobility Management Function
GTP GPRS Tunnelling Protocol
IP Internet Protocol
NGAP NG Application Protocol
TEID Tunnel Endpoint Identifier
UDP User Datagram Protocol
UPF User Plane Function
# 4 Data Link Layer
Any data link protocol that fulfills the requirements toward the upper layer
may be used.
# 5 NG Interface user plane protocol
## 5.1 General
Both gNB and ng-eNB can be connected to the 5GC over the NG interface.
The transport layer for data streams over NG is an IP based Transport. The
following figure shows the transport protocol stacks over NG.
{width="1.363888888888889in" height="1.875in"}
Figure 5.1: Transport network layer for data streams over NG
The GTP-U (TS 29.281 [3]) protocol over UDP over IP shall be supported as the
transport for data streams on the NG interface. The data link layer is as
specified in clause 4.
The transport bearer is identified by the GTP-U TEID (TS 29.281 [3]) and the
IP address (source TEID, destination TEID, source IP address, destination IP
address).
## 5.2 GTP-U
The GTP-U (TS 29.281 [3]) protocol shall be used over the NG-U interface
toward the 5GC.
## 5.3 UDP/IP
The path protocol used shall be UDP (IETF RFC 768 [4]).
The UDP port number for GTP-U shall be as defined in TS 29.281 [3].
The NG-RAN node and the 5GC shall support fragmentation and assembly of GTP
packets at the IP layer.
The NG-RAN node and the 5GC shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 8200 [5]) and/or IPv4
(IETF RFC 791 [6]).
There may be one or several IP addresses in the NG-RAN node and in the 5GC.
The packet processing function in the 5GC shall send downstream packets of a
given PDU Session to the NG-RAN node IP address (received in NGAP) associated
to that particular PDU Session. The packet processing function in the NG-RAN
node shall send upstream packets of a given PDU Session to the 5GC IP address
(received in NGAP) associated to that particular PDU Session.
The Transport Layer Address signalled in NGAP messages is a bit string of
> a) 32 bits in case of IPv4 address according to IETF RFC 791 [6]; or
>
> b) 128 bits in case of IPv6 address according to IETF RFC 8200 [5]; or
>
> c) 160 bits if both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses are signalled, in which case the
> IPv4 address is contained in the first 32 bits.
## 5.4 Diffserv code point marking
IP Differentiated Services code point marking (IETF RFC 2474 [7]) shall be
supported. The mapping between traffic categories and Diffserv code points
shall be configurable by O&M based on 5QI, the Priority Level (if explicitly
signalled), and other NG-RAN traffic parameters (e.g. ARP). Traffic categories
are implementation-specific and may be determined from the application
parameters.
#