# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the PDU Session user plane protocol being used
over the NG-U, Xn-U and N9 interfaces. Applicability to other interfaces is
not precluded.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NextGen Radio Access Network (NG-RAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 29.281: \"General Packet Radio System (GPRS) Tunnelling Protocol
User Plane (GTPv1-U)\".
> [4] 3GPP TS 37.324: \"E-UTRA and NR; Service Data Application Protocol
> (SDAP) specification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[6] IETF RFC 5905 (2010-06): \"Network Time Protocol Version 4: Protocol and
Algorithms Specification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 38.413: \"NG-RAN; NG Application Protocol (NGAP)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Multicast Broadcast User Plane Function** : as defined in TS 23.501 [5].
**NG-U** : logical interface between NG-RAN node and UPF as described in TS
38.300 [2].
**Xn-U** : logical interface between NG-RAN nodes as defined in TS 38.300 [2].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
MBS Multicast Broadcast Service
MB-UPF Multicast Broadcast User Plane Function
PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol
PPI Paging Policy Indicator
PPP Paging Policy Presence
QFI QoS Flow Identifier
RQA Reflective QoS Attribute
RQI Reflective QoS Indication
SN Sequence Number
UP User Plane
UPF User Plane Function
# 4 General
## 4.1 General aspects
The PDU Session User Plane protocol is located in the User Plane of the Radio
Network Layer above the Transport Network Layer of the interface.
Each PDU session User Plane protocol instance is associated to one PDU
Session.
In this version of the present document, the PDU session user plane protocol
data is conveyed by GTP-U protocol means, more specifically, by means of the
\"PDU Session Container\" GTP-U Extension Header as defined in TS 29.281 [3].
# 5 PDU Session user plane protocol
## 5.1 General
The PDU session UP layer uses the services of the Transport Network Layer in
order to send its packets over the interface.
## 5.2 PDU Session user plane protocol layer services
The following functions are provided by the PDU Session User Plane protocol:
\- Provision of control information elements (e.g. QFI, RQI) associated with a
PDU session.
## 5.3 Services expected from the Transport Network Layer
The PDU session UP layer expects the following services from the Transport
Network Layer:
\- Transfer of PDU session User Plane PDUs.
## 5.4 Elementary procedures
### 5.4.1 Transfer of DL PDU Session Information
#### 5.4.1.1 Successful operation
The purpose of the Transfer of DL PDU Session Information procedure is to send
control information elements related to the PDU Session from UPF to NG-RAN.
In the case of uplink and downlink data forwarding the DL PDU Session
Information procedure shall also be used to send control information elements
related to the PDU Session from NG-RAN node to UPF, or from UPF to NG-RAN
node, or between NG-RAN nodes.
A PDU Session user plane instance making use of the Transfer of DL PDU Session
Information procedure is associated to a single PDU Session. The Transfer of
DL PDU Session Information procedure may be invoked whenever packets for that
particular PDU Session need to be transferred across the related interface
instance.
The DL PDU SESSION INFORMATION frame includes a QoS Flow Identifier (QFI)
field associated with the transferred packet. The NG-RAN shall use the
received QFI to determine the QoS flow and QoS profile which are associated
with the received packet.
The DL PDU SESSION INFORMATION frame shall include the Reflective QoS
Indicator (RQI) field to indicate whether user plane Reflective QoS shall be
activated or not. The NG-RAN shall, if RQA has been configured for the
involved QoS flow as specified in TS 38.413 [7], take the RQI into account as
specified in TS 37.324 [4].
The DL PDU SESSION INFORMATION frame may also include a Paging Policy
Indicator (PPI) field associated with the transferred packet. The NG-RAN shall
use the received PPI to determine the paging policy differentiation which is
associated with the received packet as described in TS 23.501 [5].
The DL PDU SESSION INFORMATION frame may also include a QoS Monitoring Packet
(QMP) field and a DL sending time stamp field. The NG-RAN shall, if QoS
monitoring has been configured for the included QFI field, perform delay
measurement and QoS monitoring, as specified in TS 23.501 [5].
The DL PDU SESSION INFORMATION frame may also include a DL QFI Sequence Number
field associated with the transferred packet. The NG-RAN shall, if the QoS
flow has been configured eligible for redundant transport bearer in TS 38.413
[6], use the received DL QFI Sequence Number field to determine and eliminate
duplicated packets for a given QoS flow as specified in TS 23.501 [5].
The DL PDU SESSION INFORMATION frame may also include a DL MBS QFI Sequence
Number field associated with the transferred packet. The NG-RAN shall use the
received DL MBS QFI Sequence Number field to determine the PDCP count that
should be used when transferring the packet over the radio as specified in TS
38.300 [2].
When needed, the NG-RAN shall propagate the DL PDU Session Information to a
peer NG-RAN.
Figure 5.4.1.1-1: Successful Transfer of DL PDU Session Information
#### 5.4.1.2 Unsuccessful operation
Void.
### 5.4.2 Transfer of UL PDU Session Information
#### 5.4.2.1 Successful operation
The purpose of the Transfer of UL PDU Session Information procedure is to send
control information elements related to the PDU Session from NG-RAN to UPF.
An UL PDU Session user plane instance making use of the Transfer of UL PDU
Session Information procedure is associated to a single PDU Session. The
Transfer of UL PDU Session Information procedure may be invoked whenever
packets for that particular PDU Session need to be transferred across the
related interface instance.
The UL PDU SESSION INFORMATION frame includes a QoS Flow Identifier (QFI)
field associated with the transferred packet.
If QoS monitoring has been requested for the included QFI field, the UL PDU
SESSION INFORMATION frame may include a QoS Monitoring Packet (QMP) field, a
DL Sending Time Stamp Repeated field, a DL Receiving Time Stamp field, a UL
Sending Time Stamp field, and/or Delay Result for UL or DL. If QoS monitoring
with N3/N9 delay reporting has been requested for the included QFI field, the
I-UPF may include in the UL PDU SESSION INFORMATION frame a N3/N9 Delay Ind.
field, a N3/N9 Delay Result field and delay result for UL and DL if received
from the RAN. The UPF shall, if supported, use this information to calculate
UL, DL, or RTT delay as specified in TS 23.501 [5].
The UL PDU SESSION INFORMATION frame may also include a UL QFI Sequence Number
field associated with the transferred packet. The UPF shall, if the QoS flow
has been configured eligible for redundant transport bearer in TS 38.413 [6],
use the received UL QFI Sequence Number field to determine and eliminate
duplicated packets for a given QoS flow as specified in TS 23.501 [5].
{width="2.7805555555555554in" height="1.2479166666666666in"}
Figure 5.4.2.1-1: Successful Transfer of UL PDU Session Information
#### 5.4.2.2 Unsuccessful operation
Void.
## 5.5 Elements for the PDU Session user plane protocol
### 5.5.1 General
In the present document the structure of frames are specified by using figures
similar to figure 5.5.1-1.
Bits | 
> Number of Octets
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 |  |   
Field 1 | Field 2 | 1 | Octet 1 |  |  |  |  |  |   
Field 3 | Field 4 | 2 | Octet 2 |  |  |  |  |  |   
Field 4 continue | Spare |  | Octet 3 |  |  |  |  |  |   
Field 6 | 2 | Octet 4 Octet 5 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Field 6 continue | Padding bits |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Future Extension | 0-m |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Padding | 0-3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Figure 5.5.1-1: Example frame format
Unless otherwise indicated, fields which consist of multiple bits within an
octet have the most significant bit located at the higher bit position
(indicated above frame in figure 5.5.1-1). In addition, if a field spans
several octets, most significant bits are located in lower numbered octets
(right of frame in figure 5.5.1-1).
On the NG interface, the frame is transmitted starting from the lowest
numbered octet. Within each octet, the bits are sent according to decreasing
bit position (bit position 7 first).
Spare bits should be set to \"0\" by the sender and should not be checked by
the receiver.
The header part of the frame is always an integer number of octets. The
payload part is octet aligned (by adding \'Padding Bits\' when needed).
The receiver should be able to remove an additional Future Extension field
that may be present.\ See description of Future Extension field in A.1.
Padding octets may be added at the end of the frame, see Padding in 5.5.3.5.
### 5.5.2 Frame format for the PDU Session user plane protocol
#### 5.5.2.1 DL PDU SESSION INFORMATION (PDU Type 0)
This frame format is defined to allow the NG-RAN to receive some control
information elements which are associated with the transfer of a packet over
the interface.
The following shows the respective DL PDU SESSION INFORMATION frame.
+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+---+---+---+---+ | Bits | > Number | | | | | | | | | | > of | | | | | | | | | | > Octets | | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+---+---+---+---+ | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+---+---+---+---+ | PDU Type | QMP | SNP | MSNP | Spare | 1 | | | | | (=0) | | | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+---+---+---+---+ | PPP | RQI | QoS Flow | 1 | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | | dentifier | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+---+---+---+---+ | PPI | Spare | 0 or 1 | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+---+---+---+---+ | DL | 0 or 8 | | | | | | | | | Sending | | | | | | | | | | Time | | | | | | | | | | Stamp | | | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+---+---+---+---+ | DL QFI | 0 or 3 | | | | | | | | | Sequence | | | | | | | | | | Number | | | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+---+---+---+---+ | DL MBS | 0 or 4 | | | | | | | | | QFI | | | | | | | | | | Sequence | | | | | | | | | | Number | | | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+---+---+---+---+ | Padding | 0-3 | | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+------+-------+---+---+---+---+
Figure 5.5.2.1-1: DL PDU SESSION INFORMATION (PDU Type 0) Format
#### 5.5.2.2 UL PDU SESSION INFORMATION (PDU Type 1)
This frame format is defined to allow the UPF to receive some control
information elements which are associated with the transfer of a packet over
the interface.
The following shows the respective UL PDU SESSION INFORMATION frame.
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Bits | > N | | | | | | | | | | umber | | | | | | | | | | > of | | | | | | | | | | > O | | | | | | | | | | ctets | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | PDU | QMP | DL | UL | SNP | 1 | | | | | Type | | Delay | Delay | | | | | | | (=1) | | Ind. | Ind. | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | N3/N9 | New | QoS | 1 | | | | | | | Delay | IE | Flow | | | | | | | | Ind. | Flag | Ident | | | | | | | | | | ifier | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | DL | 0 or | | | | | | | | | Se | 8 | | | | | | | | | nding | | | | | | | | | | Time | | | | | | | | | | Stamp | | | | | | | | | | Rep | | | | | | | | | | eated | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | DL | 0 or | | | | | | | | | Rec | 8 | | | | | | | | | eived | | | | | | | | | | Time | | | | | | | | | | Stamp | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | UL | 0 or | | | | | | | | | Se | 8 | | | | | | | | | nding | | | | | | | | | | Time | | | | | | | | | | Stamp | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | DL | 0 or | | | | | | | | | Delay | 4 | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | | esult | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | UL | 0 or | | | | | | | | | Delay | 4 | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | | esult | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | UL | 0 or | | | | | | | | | QFI | 3 | | | | | | | | | Seq | | | | | | | | | | uence | | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | | umber | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | N3/N9 | 0 or | | | | | | | | | Delay | 4 | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | | esult | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | New | New | New | New | New | New | New | New | 0 or | | IE | IE | IE | IE | IE | IE | IE | IE | 1 | | flag | Flag | Flag | Flag | Flag | Flag | Flag | Flag | | | 7(E) | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 | New | | | | | | | | | | IE | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Flags | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Octet | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Spare | D1 UL | 0 or | | | | | | | | | PDCP | 1 | | | | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | | esult | | | | | | | | | | Ind | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Pa | 0-3 | | | | | | | | | dding | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Figure 5.5.2.2-1: UL PDU SESSION INFORMATION (PDU Type 1) Format
The New IE Flag in bit 6 of 2^nd^ octet in UL PDU SESSION INFORMATION (PDU
Type 1) indicates if the first octet of _New IE Flags Octet_ is present or
not.
Bit 0 of New IE Flags Octet in UL PDU SESSION INFORMATION (PDU Type 1)
indicates if the D1 UL PDCP Delay Result Ind is present (1) or not (0)
### 5.5.3 Coding of information elements in frames
#### 5.5.3.1 PDU Type
**Description:** The PDU Type indicates the structure of the PDU session UP
frame. The field takes the value of the PDU Type it identifies; i.e. \"0\" for
PDU Type 0. The PDU type is in bit 4 to bit 7 in the first octet of the frame.
**Value range:** {0= DL PDU SESSION INFORMATION, 1=UL PDU SESSION INFORMATION,
2-15=reserved for future PDU type extensions}.
**Field length:** 4 bits.
#### 5.5.3.2 Spare
**Description:** The spare field is set to \"0\" by the sender and should not
be interpreted by the receiver. This field is reserved for later versions.
**Value range:** (0--2^n^-1).
**Field Length:** n bits.
#### 5.5.3.3 QoS Flow Identifier (QFI)
**Description:** When present this parameter indicates the QoS Flow Identifier
of the QoS flow to which the transferred packet belongs.
**Value range:** {0..2^6^-1}.
**Field length:** 6 bits.
#### 5.5.3.4 Reflective QoS Indicator (RQI)
**Description:** This parameter indicates activation of the reflective QoS
towards the UE for the transferred packet as described in clause 5.4.1.1. It
is used only in the downlink direction. If RQA (Reflective QoS Activation) has
not been configured for the involved QoS flow, the RQI shall be ignored by the
NG-RAN node.
**Value range:** {0= Reflective QoS activation not triggered, 1= Reflective
QoS activation triggered}.
**Field length:** 1 bit.
#### 5.5.3.5 Padding
**Description:** The padding is included at the end of the frame to ensure
that the PDU Session user plane protocol PDU length (including padding and the
future extension) is (n*4-- 2) octets, where n is a positive integer. If there
is any future extension, the padding should be added after the future
extensions.
**Field Length:** 0--3 octets.
#### 5.5.3.6 Paging Policy Presence (PPP)
**Description:** This parameter indicates the presence of the Paging Policy
Indicator (PPI).
**Value range:** {0= Paging Policy Indicator not present, 1= Paging Policy
Indicator present}.
**Field length:** 1 bit.
#### 5.5.3.7 Paging Policy Indicator (PPI)
**Description:** When present, the Paging Policy Indicator is used for paging
policy differentiation (see details in 3GPP TS 23.501 [5]). This field applies
to PDU sessions of IP type.
**Value range:** {0..2^3^-1}.
**Field length:** 3 bits.
#### 5.5.3.8 QoS Monitoring Packet (QMP)
**Description:** This parameter indicates that the transferred packet is used
for QoS monitoring as described in clause 5.4.1.1 and clause 5.4.2.1. This
parameter also indicates the presence of the DL Sending Time Stamp in the DL
PDU Session Information frame and the presence of the DL Sending Time Stamp
Repeated, the DL Receiving Time Stamp, the UL Sending Time Stamp in the UL PDU
Session Information frame. If QoS monitoring has not been configured for the
involved QoS flow, the QMP shall be ignored by the NG-RAN node.
**Value range:** {0= not used for QoS monitoring, 1= used for QoS monitoring}.
**Field length:** 1 bit.
#### 5.5.3.9 DL Sending Time Stamp
**Description:** This field indicates the time when the UPF sends the DL PDU
Session Information frame with the QMP field set to 1. It is used only in the
downlink direction and encoded in the same format as the 64-bit timestamp
format as defined in Section 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [6].
**Value range:** {0..2^64^-1}.
**Field length:** 8 octets.
#### 5.5.3.10 DL Sending Time Stamp Repeated
**Description:** This field indicates the value of the DL Sending Time Stamp
field that the NG-RAN has received in the DL PDU Session Information frame
with the QMP field set to 1 for the involved QoS flow. It is used only in the
uplink direction and encoded in the same format as the 64-bit timestamp format
as defined in Section 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [6]. The UPF shall, if supported, use
this information to calculate DL or RTT delay between the NG-RAN and the UPF
as specified in TS 23.501 [5].
**Value range:** {0..2^64^-1}.
**Field length:** 8 octets.
#### 5.5.3.11 DL Received Time Stamp
**Description:** This field indicates the time when the NG-RAN node receives
the DL PDU Session Information frame with the QMP field set to 1 for the
involved QoS flow. It is used only in the uplink direction and encoded in the
same format as the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in Section 6 of IETF RFC
5905 [6]. The UPF shall, if supported, use this information to calculate DL or
RTT delay between the NG-RAN and the UPF as specified in TS 23.501 [5].
**Value range:** {0..2^64^-1}.
**Field length:** 8 octets.
#### 5.5.3.12 UL Sending Time Stamp
**Description:** This field indicates the time when the NG-RAN node sends this
UL PDU Session Information frame. It is used only in the uplink direction and
encoded in the same format as the 64-bit timestamp format as defined in
Section 6 of IETF RFC 5905 [6]. The UPF shall, if supported, use this
information to calculate UL or RTT delay between the NG-RAN and the UPF as
specified in TS 23.501 [5].
**Value range:** {0..2^64^-1}.
**Field length:** 8 octets.
#### 5.5.3.13 DL Delay Ind.
**Description:** This parameter indicates the presence of DL Delay Result.
**Value range:** {0= DL Delay Result not present, 1= DL Delay Result present}.
**Field length:** 1 bit.
#### 5.5.3.14 DL Delay Result
**Description:** This field indicates the downlink delay measurement result
which is the sum of the delay incurred in NG-RAN (including the delay at gNB-
CU-UP, on F1-U and on gNB-DU) and the delay over Uu interface in milliseconds
for the involved QoS flow. It is used only in the uplink direction and encoded
as an Unsigned32 binary integer value. The UPF shall, if supported, use this
information to calculate DL or RTT delay as specified in TS 23.501 [5].
**Value range:** {0..2^32^-1}.
**Field length:** 4 octets.
#### 5.5.3.15 UL Delay Ind.
**Description:** This parameter indicates the presence of UL Delay Result.
**Value range:** {0= UL Delay Result not present, 1= UL Delay Result present}.
**Field length:** 1 bit.
#### 5.5.3.16 UL Delay Result
**Description:** This field indicates the uplnk delay measurement result which
is the sum of the delay incurred in NG-RAN (including the delay at gNB-CU-UP,
on F1-U and on gNB-DU), the delay over Uu interface and the delay in the UE in
milliseconds for the involved QoS flow. It is used only in the uplink
direction and encoded as an Unsigned32 binary integer value. The UPF shall, if
supported, use this information to calculate UL or RTT delay as specified in
TS 23.501 [5].
**Value range:** {0..2^32^-1}.
**Field length:** 4 octets.
#### 5.5.3.17 Sequence Number Presence (SNP)
**Description:** This parameter indicates the presence of the DL QFI Sequence
Number in the DL PDU Session Information frame or the presence of the UL QFI
Sequence Number in the UL PDU Session Information frame.
**Value range:** {0= DL/UL QFI Sequence Number not present, 1= DL/UL QFI
Sequence Number present}.
**Field length:** 1 bit.
#### 5.5.3.18 DL QFI Sequence Number
**Description:** This parameter indicates the sequence number as assigned by
the UPF associated with a given QoS Flow.
**Value range:** {0..2^24^-1}.
**Field length:** 3 octets.
#### 5.5.3.19 UL QFI Sequence Number
**Description:** This parameter indicates the sequence number as assigned by
the NG-RAN node associated with a given QoS flow.
**Value range:** {0..2^24^-1}.
**Field length:** 3 octets.
#### 5.5.3.20 N3/N9 Delay Ind.
**Description:** This parameter indicates the presence of N3/N9 Delay Result.
**Value range:** {0= N3/N9 Delay Result not present, 1= N3/N9 Delay Result
present}.
**Field length:** 1 bit.
#### 5.5.3.21 N3/N9 Delay Result
**Description:** This field indicates the accumulated N3 and N9 packet delay
as specified in [5], and is reported by the I-UPF. The reported value is
expressed in milliseconds and encoded as an Unsigned32 binary integer value.
**Value range:** {0..2^32^-1}.
**Field length:** 4 octets.
#### 5.5.3.22 D1 UL PDCP Delay Result Ind
**Description:** This parameter indicates if the UL Delay Result includes or
not includes the D1 measurement (UL PDCP Packet Average Delay). This parameter
shall be ignored if the UL Delay Ind is set to "0".
**Value range:** {0= D1 UL PDCP Packet Average Delay measurement is not
included, 1= D1 UL PDCP Packet Average Delay measurement is included}.
**Field length:** 1 bit.
#### 5.5.3.23 MBS Sequence Number Presence (MSNP)
**Description:** This parameter indicates the presence of the DL MBS QFI
Sequence Number in the DL PDU Session Information frame.
**Value range:** {0= DL MBS QFI Sequence Number not present, 1= DL MBS QFI
Sequence Number present}.
**Field length:** 1 bit.
#### 5.5.3.24 DL MBS QFI Sequence Number
**Description:** This parameter indicates the sequence number as assigned by
the MB-UPF associated with a given MBS QoS Flow.
**Value range:** {0..2^32^-1}.
**Field length:** 4 octets.
### 5.5.4 Timers
Void.
## 5.6 Handling of unknown, unforeseen and erroneous protocol data
Void.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Example of using Future Extension Field
# A.1 Example of using Future Extension field
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | New | New | New | New | New | New | New | New | 1 | | IE | IE | IE | IE | IE | IE | IE | IE | Octet | | flag | flag | flag | flag | flag | flag | flag | flag | | | 7(E) | | | | | | | | New | | | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 | IE | | | | | | | | | | Flags | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | New | 3 | | | | | | | | | IE 1 | O | | | | | | | | | | ctets | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | New | 2 | | | | | | | | | IE 2 | O | | | | | | | | | | ctets | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Figure A.1-1: Example of future Extension Field
In the Example of the future Extension Field, New IE flag 0 indicates if the
New IE 1 is present or not. New IE flag 1 indicates if the new IE 2 is present
or not.
## A.1.1 New IE Flags
**Description:** The _New IE Flags_ IE is only present if at least one new IE
is present. The _New IE Flags_ IE contains flags indicating which new IEs that
are present following the _New IE Flags_ IE. The last bit position of the _New
IE Flags_ IE is used as the Extension Flag to allow the extension of the _New
IE Flags_ IE in the future. Extension octets of the _New IE Flags_ IE shall
follow directly after the first octet of the _New IE Flags_ IE. When an
extension octet of the _New IE Flags_ IE is present, then all previous
extension octets of the _New IE Flags_ IE and the _New IE Flags_ IE shall also
be present, even if they have all their flag bits indicating no presence of
their respective new IEs.
#