# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the standards for Signalling Transport to be
used across the F1 interface. The F1 interface provides means for
interconnecting a gNB-CU and a gNB-DU of a gNB within an NG-RAN, or for
interconnecting a gNB-CU and a gNB-DU of an en-gNB within an E-UTRAN. The
present document describes how the F1AP signalling messages are transported
over F1.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] IETF RFC 8200 (2017-07): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6)
Specification\".
[3] IETF RFC 791 (1981-09): \"Internet Protocol\".
[4] IETF RFC 2474 (1998-12): \"Definition of the Differentiated Services Field
(DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers\".
[5] IETF RFC 4960 (2007-09): \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
[6] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; Overall description; Stage-2\".
[7] 3GPP TS 38.401: \"NG-RAN; Architecture description\".
[8] 3GPP TS 37.340: \"NR; Multi-connectivity; Overall description; Stage-2\".
[9] IETF RFC 6083 (2011-01): \"Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) for
Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)\".
[10] IETF RFC 6335 (2011-08): \" Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)
Procedures for the Management of the Service Name and Transport Protocol Port
Number Registry\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**en-gNB** : as defined in TS 37.340 [8]
**F1:** interface between a gNB-CU and a gNB-DU, providing an interconnection
point between the gNB-CU and the gNB-DU.
**F1-C** : Reference point for the control plane protocol between gNB-CU and
gNB-DU.
**gNB-CU** : as defined in TS 38.401 [7]
**gNB-DU** : as defined in TS 38.401 [7]
**gNB** : as defined in TS 38.300 [6]
**SCTP endpoint:** as defined in IETF RFC 4960 (2007-09) [5]
**SCTP association:** as defined in IETF RFC 4960 (2007-09) [5]
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
DiffServ Differentiated Service
IANA Internet Assigned Number Authority
IP Internet Protocol
PPP Point to Point Protocol
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
# 4\. F1-C signalling bearer
## 4.1 Function and protocol stack
The F1-C signalling bearer provides the following functions:
\- Provision of reliable transfer of F1AP messages over the F1-C interface.
\- Provision of networking and routeing function.
\- Provision of redundancy in the signalling network.
\- Support for flow control and congestion control.
The protocol stack for F1-C Signalling Bearer is shown in figure 4.1-1 and
details on each protocol are described in the following clauses.
Figure 4.1-1: F1-C signalling bearer protocol stack
The Transport Network Layer is based on IP transport, comprising SCTP on top
of IP.
# 5 Data link layer
The support of any suitable Data Link Layer protocol, e.g. PPP, Ethernet,
etc., shall not be prevented.
# 6 IP layer
The gNB-CU and gNB-DU shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 8200 [2]) and/or IPv4 (IETF
RFC 791 [3]).
The IP layer of F1-C only supports point-to-point transmission for delivering
F1AP message.
The gNB-CU and gNB-DU shall support the Diffserv Code Point marking as
described in IETF RFC 2474 [4].
# 7 Transport layer
SCTP (IETF RFC 4960 [5]) shall be supported as the transport layer of F1-C
signalling bearer. The Payload Protocol Identifier (ppid) assigned by IANA to
be used by SCTP for the application layer protocol F1AP is 62, and 68 for DTLS
over SCTP (IETF RFC 6083 [9]). The byte order of the ppid shall be big-endian.
SCTP refers to the Stream Control Transmission Protocol developed by the
Sigtran working group of the IETF for the purpose of transporting various
signalling protocols over IP network.
The gNB-DU and gNB-CU shall support a configuration with a single SCTP
association per gNB-DU/gNB-CU pair. Configurations with multiple SCTP
endpoints per gNB-DU/gNB-CU pair should be supported. When configurations with
multiple SCTP associations are supported, the gNB-CU/gNB-DU may request to
dynamically add/remove SCTP associations between the gNB-DU/gNB-CU pair.
The gNB-DU shall establish the SCTP association. The SCTP Destination Port
number value assigned by IANA to be used for F1AP is 38472. When the gNB-CU
requests to dynamically add additional SCTP associations between the gNB-
DU/gNB-CU pair, the SCTP Destination Port number value may be 38472, or any
_dynamic port value_ (IETF RFC 6335 [10]).
Within the set of SCTP associations established between one gNB-CU and gNB-DU
pair, a single SCTP association shall be employed for F1AP elementary
procedures that utilize non-UE-associated signalling with the possibility of
fail-over to a new association to enable robustness. Selection of the SCTP
association by the gNB-DU and the gNB-CU is specified in TS 38.401 [7].
When the configuration with multiple SCTP endpoints per gNB-DU is supported
and gNB-DU wants to add additional SCTP endpoints, the gNB-DU Configuration
Update procedure shall be the first F1AP procedure triggered on an additional
TNLA of an already setup F1-C interface instance after the TNL association has
become operational, and the gNB-CU shall associate the TNLA to the F1-C
interface instance using the included gNB-DU ID.
Between one gNB-CU and gNB-DU pair:
\- A single pair of stream identifiers shall be reserved over an SCTP
association for the sole use of F1AP elementary procedures that utilize non
UE-associated signalling.
\- At least one pair of stream identifiers over one or several SCTP
associations shall be reserved for the sole use of F1AP elementary procedures
that utilize UE-associated signalling. However, a few pairs (i.e. more than
one) should be reserved.
\- For a single UE-associated signalling, the gNB-DU shall use one SCTP
association and one SCTP stream, and the SCTP association/stream should not be
changed during the communication of the UE-associated signalling until after
current SCTP association is failed or removed, or TNL binding update is
performed.
Transport network redundancy may be achieved by SCTP multi-homing between two
end-points, of which one or both is assigned with multiple IP addresses. SCTP
end-points shall support a multi-homed remote SCTP end-point. **For SCTP
endpoint redundancy an INIT may be sent from a gNB-CU or gNB-DU, at any time
for an already established SCTP association, which shall be handled as defined
in IETF RFC 4960 [5] in sub clause 5.2.**
The SCTP congestion control may, using an implementation specific mechanism,
initiate higher layer protocols to reduce the signalling traffic at the source
and prioritise certain messages.
For MBS-associated signalling, principles specified above for UE-associated
signalling shall apply.
#