# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines for User Equipment (UE) those special functions
and their activation/deactivation methods that are required in the UE for
conformance testing purposes when the UE is connected to the 5G System (5GS)
via its radio interface(s).
The document also describes the operation of these special functions when the
5GS capable UEs are connected via a non-5GS system e.g. E-UTRA FDD or TDD
system.
Depending on the 5GS system\'s architecture some relevant for the UE for
conformance testing special functions may be defined in TS 36.509 [6].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_ unless the context in which the
reference is made suggests a different Release is relevant (information on the
applicable release in a particular context can be found in e.g. test case
title, description or applicability, message description or content).
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.508-1: \"5GS; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 1: Common test environment \".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.523-1: \"5GS; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 1: Protocol \".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.523-3: \"5GS; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 3: Protocol Test Suites \"
[5] 3GPP TS 38.522: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Applicability of RF and RRM test cases\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.509: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Packet Core (EPC); Special conformance testing functions for User
Equipment (UE)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General
Aspects\".
[8] 3GPP TS 34.109: \"Terminal logical test interface; Special conformance
testing functions\".
[9] 3GPP TS 44.014: \"Individual equipment type requirements and interworking;
Special conformance testing functions\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (EUTRA)
Radio Resource Control (RRC) Protocol Specification\".
[11] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol
specification\".
[12] 3GPP TS 38.521-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Radio transmission and reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".
[13] 3GPP TS 38.521-2: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Radio transmission and reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\".
[14] 3GPP TS 38.521-3: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Radio transmission and reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking
operation with other radios\".
[15] 3GPP TS 38.521-4: \"NR; User Equipment conformance specification; Radio
transmission and reception; Part 4: Performance\".
[16] 3GPP TS 38.533: NR; \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Radio resource management\".
[17] 3GPP TS 24.301: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for Evolved Packet
System (EPS); Stage 3\".
[18] 3GPP TS 36.323: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP) specification\".
[19] 3GPP TS 38.323: \"NR; Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP)
specification\".
[20] 3GPP TS 38.306: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities\".
[21] 3GPP TS 24.501: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for 5G System (5GS);
Stage 3\".
[22] 3GPP TS 38.215: \"NR; Physical Layer Measurements\".
[23] 3GPP TS 38.321: \"NR; Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol
specification\".
[24] 3GPP TS 37.355: \"LTE Positioning Protocol (LPP)\".
[25] 3GPP TS 38.211: \"NR; Physical channels and modulation\".
[26] 3GPP TS 24.587: \" Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) services in 5G System
(5GS), Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Frequency Range 2 (FR2):** The frequency ranges in which NR can operate
being in the range of 24250 MHz - 52600 MHz.
**Logical Test Interface:** interface which provides the logical service to
interwork and to communicate between UE and System Simulator during the test
of a UE
**SS (System Simulator):** test system (or equipment) that drives the test
process with UE, like 5G System simulator
**TMC (Test Mode Control):** UE protocol entity used by the SS to control the
UE specific testing functions
NOTE: In other Special conformance testing functions for User Equipment (UE)
3GPP specifications e.g. 36.509 [6], the term Test Control (TC) is used for
describing the same UE entity. The different names do not preclude the
implementation of a single entity to handle all the functionality in a UE
supporting different 3GPP technologies.
**UE (User Equipment):** user equipment as defined in [1] that is under test
## 3.2 Symbols
No specific symbols apply for the purposes of the present document.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
EMMI Electrical Man Machine Interface
FFS For further Study
FR2 Frequency Range 2
LB Loop Back
MTC Main Test Component
NSSAI Network Slice Selection Assistance Information
SS System Simulator
TMC Test Mode Control
# 4 UE special conformance test functions overview
## 4.1 Requirements for UE support of test functions
The UE special conformance test functions are required for the support of 5GS
conformance testing. They form a part of the core requirements and thus have a
direct impact on the design of the UE. The use of the word \"mandatory\" in
the present specification shall be understood as a particular requirement
being mandatory for performing UE conformance testing.
NOTE: While the importance of conformance testing should not be
underestimated, and hence is highly recommended, the implementation of
facilitation of it is left to the Device implementation.
## 4.2 UE special conformance test functions concept
The present specification defines the UE special conformance test functions
including any relevant procedure and the Test Mode Control (TMC) message
contents used for information exchange.
The conformance test methods applied in RF/RRM Conformance Test Specification
TS 38.521-1 [12], TS 38.521-2 [13], TS 38.521-3 [14], TS 38.521-4 [15] and TS
38.533 [16], and, the conformance test models used in Protocol Conformance
Test Specifications TS 38.523-1 [3] and TS 38.523-3 [4], as well as, common
test environment definition and Generic procedures specified in TS 38.508-1
[2] utilise the UE special conformance test functions. Default TMC messages
and information element contents utilised in all before mentioned test
specifications are specified in TS 38.508-1 [2].
The UE special conformance test functions vary depending on the conformance
testing functionality they are designed to support. The following broader
groups of UE special conformance test functions can be identified:
\- **Test Loop Functions** : Functions which require a loop to be established
between the UE and the System Simulator (SS) to allow e.g. DL data packets
sent by the SS to be looped back UL by the UE
\- **General Test Functions** : Commands send by the SS e.g. to trigger a
certain UE behaviour which may be a behaviour determined by 3GPP core spec
requirements or such needed to facilitate conformance testing and not being
part of any 3GPP core spec requirements, or, to provide to the UE information
needed for the conformance testing.
NOTE 1: An example for behaviour needed to facilitate conformance testing and
not representing behaviour determined by 3GPP core spec requirements is
counting and reporting the number of received data packets thereby providing
means to the SS to verify 3GPP core spec requirements.
The utilisation of any UE special conformance test functions shall be
considered as putting the UE in a test mode. The duration of the test mode
depends on the UE special conformance test function and in most of the cases
will be delimited by an activation and a deactivation command. However, in the
case of general test functions used e.g. only to provide information relevant
for the conformance testing the test mode can be considered as entered as soon
as the information is received and exited as soon as the information has been
acted upon.
As a common rule the UE special conformance test functions provide access to
isolated functions of the UE via the radio interface without introducing new
physical interfaces just for the reason of conformance testing. However, in
certain cases the usage of AT Commands may be required which will require an
external interface e.g. EMMI.
NOTE 2: It should be emphasised that the UE test functions only describe the
functional behaviour of the UE with respect to its external interfaces;
physical implementation of the UE test function is completely left open to the
manufacturer.
Depending on the conformance testing functionality they are designed to
support, the UE special conformance test functions may comprise:
\- A single DL message (e.g. a test function intended to provide to the UE
information needed for the conformance testing)
\- A Request/Acknowledgement type of 2 messages exchange, an DL message
followed by a UL message, (e.g. a test function intended to request the UE to
execute an action which requires acknowledgment that request was received and
acted upon)
Furthermore, depending on the conformance test scenarios
\- An UE special conformance test function can be used in isolation.
NOTE 3: An example for this is the provision to the UE of location information
which can then be used by the UE throughout its \"normal\" i.e. not test mode
functions dependant behaviour.
\- Two, or more, UE special conformance test functions may need to be executed
in a particular sequence before the target UE behaviour can be assumed.
NOTE 4: An example for this are the Activate UE test mode and Close UE test
loop functions. The former needs to be executed first, at a particular moment
of time, in order a specific type of test bearer terminated in a particular UE
protocol layer to be established. Followed by the latter, executed at
different point of time, which will instruct the UE to start looping back the
received packets.
\- Two, or more, UE special conformance test functions may be executed
simultaneously with no particular relation one to another allowing for
different test mode functionality to take place at the same time.
NOTE 5: An example for this are the UE Beamlock test function and the test
functions needed for test loop mode operation (see NOTE 4). The former may
need to be active throughout the entire tests with the latter being active in
parts of the test as appropriate. Both being active independently.
For the specification of UE special conformance test functions the present
specification may refer to other specifications. In the case when text on the
same matter exists in the present specification and in the referred
specification, the text in the present specification takes precedence.
# 5 UE special conformance test functions operation
## 5.1 General
For consistency with legacy terminology, the present specification uses the
terms \'Activate UE test mode\' and \'Deactivate UE test mode\' for denoting
the activation and the deactivation of 5GS test mode bearers procedures
respectively. Consequently, \'Activate UE test mode\' should not be understood
as setting the UE in test mode in general rather, as setting the UE in a mode
(i.e. establishing a special type of test bearers) which other special UE
conformance testing functions require for proper operation. As this has been
mentioned elsewhere in the present specification, not all special UE
conformance testing functions require such a setting.
Similarly, the present specification may use the term \'UE test loop mode X
operation\", where X is a chose letter, for denoting operation which does not
represent true looping back of data being received rather, it represents what
can be called as a \"pseudo loop\" i.e. providing back information about the
received data e.g. the number of the received packets.
## 5.2 Activation and deactivation of 5GS test mode bearers (UE test mode
procedures)
### 5.2.1 General
The SS performs, where applicable, activation and deactivation of the
conformance test functions in the UE by sending Security Protected NAS Layer 3
messages.
The UE test mode procedures are intended for setting the UE into a test mode
where the SS can set up test bearers terminated at a particular point in the
5GS protocol stack as specified in the functional block diagram of each UE
test loop mode of operation. The following test bearers are defined in the
present specification:
\- data radio bearers (UE test loop mode A),
\- EPS bearers or 5GS QoS flows (UE test loop mode B).
\- MBS radio bearers (UE test loop mode C).
\- NR PC5 QoS flows (UE test loop mode E).
### 5.2.2 Activate UE test mode
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 5.3.2 with the following exceptions:
\- where E-UTRA is mentioned the same applies for NR;
\- where V2X is mentioned the same applies for NR sidelink;
\- MTCH data radio bearer is replaced by MBS radio bearer;
the NB-IoT mode is out of the scope of the present specification;
where different UE test loop modes are mentioned only those applicable to 5GS
should be taken into account (see subclause 5.3.4 for the applicable 5GS UE
test loop modes).
### 5.2.3 Deactivate UE test mode
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 5.3.3 with the following exceptions
\- where E-UTRA is mentioned the same applies for NR;
\- where V2X is mentioned the same applies for NR sidelink;
\- the NB-IoT mode is out of the scope of the present specification;
\- where different UE test loop modes are mentioned only those applicable to
5GS should be taken into account (see subclause 5.3.4 for the applicable 5GS
UE test loop modes).
Apart from sending the appropriate deactivation command to the UE the
functions shall be deactivated by:
switching off the UE; or
by removing the USIM.
## 5.3 Test loop functions
### 5.3.1 General
Before a loop functionality can be exercised, the test loop needs to be
closed; this is to be understood as the UE being instructed to start looping
back received data packets. When looping back received data packets is not any
longer required the loop should be re-opened; opening of a loop does not
change the type of bearer being established by the UE test mode activation
function (subclause 5.2.2).
To limit the number of special test functions, the concept of closing and
opening a loop is also used as instruction to the UE to initiate/terminate
other actions. An example of this is counting the received packets and
reporting the number of received packets back to the SS; in the context of
this utilisation closing a loop is to be understood as the UE being instructed
to start counting the packets, whereas opening a loop should be understood as
stop counting the packets. Other utilisation of the closing/opening a \"test
loop\" test functionality can be specified if appropriate.
The UE test loop functions for 5GS are intended for:
\- NR receiver and transmitter testing to disable application data transfer in
downlink and uplink during SS UE measurements.
\- NR layer 2 (MAC, RLC, PDCP, SDAP) and data radio bearer testing to generate
data transfer in downlink and uplink.
\- NR layer 2 (MAC, RLC, PDCP, SDAP) and sidelink data radio bearer testing to
generate data transfer in sidelink.
\- NR layer 2 (MAC, RLC, PDCP) and MBS radio bearer testing.
\- 5GC and NR layer 3 testing to verify data transfer continuation over RRC
and 5GC procedures.
\- 5GC and NR layer 3 testing to verify data transfer over PC5 interface.
\- 5GC NAS user-plane testing to verify uplink QoS flow descriptions handling.
\- PC5-U testing to verify sidelink PC5 QoS flow descriptions handling.
### 5.3.2 Close UE test loop
#### 5.3.2.0 General
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 5.4.2 with the following exceptions:
\- where E-UTRA is mentioned the same applies for NR;
\- where V2X is mentioned the same applies for NR sidelink;
\- the NB-IoT mode is out of the scope of the present specification
\- where different UE test loop modes are mentioned only those applicable to
5GS should be taken into account (see subclause 5.3.4 for the applicable 5GS
UE test loop modes).
\- where EPS bearers are mentioned the same applies for 5GS QoS flows;
\- where MTCH data radio bearer is replaced by MBS radio bearer;
\- UE supported minimum buffer size for MR-DC and NR shall match the required
total layer 2 buffer size as specified in TS 38.306 [20], clause 4.1.4.
\- Subclause 5.4.2.3 in TS 36.509 [6] is replaced by 5.3.2.1 in current
specification; and
\- Subclause 5.4.2.4in TS 36.509 [6] is replaced by 5.3.2.2 in current
specification.
#### 5.3.2.1 Reception of CLOSE UE TEST LOOP message by the UE
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 5.4.2.3 with the following exceptions:
...
1> else if UE test loop mode C has been selected;
2> if no MBS radio bearer is established or if the UE test mode is not active;
or
2> if UE test loop mode A or UE test loop mode B operation is already closed
on one or more data radio bearers; or
2> if TEST_LOOP_MODE_C_ACTIVE = TRUE or TEST_LOOP_MODE_D_ACTIVE = TRUE or
TEST_LOOP_MODE_E_ACTIVE = TRUE or TEST_LOOP_MODE_F_ACTIVE = TRUE or
TEST_LOOP_MODE_G_ACTIVE = TRUE or TEST_LOOP_MODE_H_ACTIVE = TRUE or
TEST_LOOP_MODE_I_ACTIVE = TRUE:
3> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
2> otherwise:
3> set TEST_LOOP_MODE_C_ACTIVE to TRUE
3> set state variable MBS_PACKET_COUNTER to zero;
3> perform the UE actions for UE Test Loop Mode C operation as specified in
subclause 5.3.4.2A and
3> send CLOSE UE TEST LOOP COMPLETE message (the loopback shall be operational
prior to the sending of the acknowledgement).
1> else if UE test loop mode E has been selected;
2> if UE test loop mode A or UE test loop mode B operation is already closed
on one or more data radio bearers; or
2> if TEST_LOOP_MODE_C_ACTIVE = TRUE or TEST_LOOP_MODE_D_ACTIVE = TRUE or
TEST_LOOP_MODE_E_ACTIVE = TRUE or TEST_LOOP_MODE_F_ACTIVE = TRUE or
TEST_LOOP_MODE_G_ACTIVE = TRUE or TEST_LOOP_MODE_H_ACTIVE = TRUE or
TEST_LOOP_MODE_I_ACTIVE = TRUE; or
2> if the UE is unable to read the pre-configured parameters for NR sidelink
Communication from the USIM; or
2> when test loop mode E is utilised in NR sidelink out-of-coverage scenarios:
3> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
2> otherwise:
3> set TEST_LOOP_MODE_E_ACTIVE to TRUE
3> if the E0 bit in Communication Transmit or Receive parameter in UE test
loop mode E setup IE is set as zero;
4> set TEST_LOOP_MODE_E_TRIGGER to RECEIVE
4> set state variable PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N to the number of entities
in the list of Group Destination IDs to individually monitor included in the
UE test loop mode E setup IE;
4> if PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N is greater than
MAX_ModeE_Monitor_Entities:
5> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
4> for SL_ID = 0...(PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N-1):
5> set state variable PROSE_COMMUNICATION_DEST_ID(SL_ID) to the parameter
Group Destination ID #(SL_ID) to monitor of the UE test loop mode E setup IE;
5> set state variable STCH_PACKET_COUNTER(SL_ID) to zero;
5> set state variable PSCCH_PACKET_COUNTER(SL_ID) to zero;
5> set state variable PSSCH_PACKET_COUNTER(SL_ID) to zero;
4> set state variable STCH_PACKET_COUNTER(PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N) to
zero;
4> set state variable PSCCH_PACKET_COUNTER(PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N) to
zero;
4> set state variable PSSCH_PACKET_COUNTER(PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N) to
zero;
4> perform the UE actions for UE Test Loop Mode E operation as specified in
subclause 5.3.4.3.1;
3> if the E0 bit in Communication Transmit or Receive parameter in UE test
loop mode E setup IE is set as one;
4> if the E1 bit in Communication Transmit or Receive parameter in UE test
loop mode E setup IE is set as zero;
5> set TEST_LOOP_MODE_E_TRIGGER to TRANSMIT;
4> else
5> set TEST_LOOP_MODE_E_TRIGGER to TRANSMIT_SL_MIMO;
4> perform the UE actions for UE Test Loop Mode E operation as specified in
subclause 5.3.4.3.1;
3> send CLOSE UE TEST LOOP COMPLETE message (the loopback shall be operational
prior to the sending of the acknowledgement).
#### 5.3.2.2 Reception of AT Command +CCUTLE by the UE
Upon receiving the AT Command
+CCUTLE=\[,\[,\,\,\,\]]
the UE shall:
1> if UE test loop mode E has been selected;
2> if TEST_LOOP_MODE_E_ACTIVE = TRUE; or
2> if the UE is unable to read the pre-configured parameters for NR sidelink
Communication from the USIM:
3> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
2> otherwise:
3> set TEST_LOOP_MODE_E_ACTIVE to TRUE
3> if the \ parameter in +CCUTLE set command is set as zero;
4> set TEST_LOOP_MODE_E_TRIGGER to RECEIVE
4> if the \ parameter in +CCUTLE set command is set as 1
> 5> set state variable PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N to the number of
> entities in the list of Destination Layer-2 IDs to individually monitor
> included in the \ parameter of +CCUTLE set command;
>
> 5> if PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N is greater than
> MAX_ModeE_Monitor_Entities:
>
> 6> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
>
> 5> for SL_ID = 0...(PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N-1):
>
> 6> set state variable PROSE_COMMUNICATION_DEST_ID(SL_ID) to the parameter
> Destination Layer-2 ID #(SL_ID) to monitor in the +CCUTLE set command;
>
> 6> set state variable STCH_PACKET_COUNTER(SL_ID) to zero;
>
> 6> set state variable PSCCH_PACKET_COUNTER(SL_ID) to zero;
>
> 6> set state variable PSSCH_PACKET_COUNTER(SL_ID) to zero;
>
> 5> set state variable STCH_PACKET_COUNTER(PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N) to
> zero;
>
> 5> set state variable PSCCH_PACKET_COUNTER(PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N) to
> zero;
>
> 5> set state variable PSSCH_PACKET_COUNTER(PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N) to
> zero;
>
> 5> perform the UE actions for UE Test Loop Mode E operation as specified in
> subclause 5.3.4.3.1;
4> else
> 5> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
3> if the \ parameter in +CCUTLE set command is set as one;
4> if the \ parameter in UE test loop mode E setup IE is set as zero
5> set TEST_LOOP_MODE_E_TRIGGER to TRANSMIT
4> else
5> set TEST_LOOP_MODE_E_TRIGGER to TRANSMIT_SL_MIMO;
4> perform the UE actions for UE Test Loop Mode E operation as specified in
subclause 5.3.4.3.1;
1> else;
2> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
### 5.3.3 Open UE test loop
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 5.4.5 with the exceptions:
\- where E-UTRA is mentioned the same applies for NR;
\- where V2X is mentioned the same applies for NR sidelink;
\- the NB-IoT mode is out of the scope of the present specification;
\- where different UE test loop modes are mentioned only those applicable to
5GS should be taken into account (see subclause 5.3.4 for the applicable 5GS
UE test loop modes).
### 5.3.4 UE functionality when test loop is closed
#### 5.3.4.1 UE test loop mode A operation
UE test loop mode A provides loopback of PDCP SDUs for bi-directional data
radio bearers while UE is operating in NR. The downlink PDCP SDUs received by
the UE on each bi-directional data radio bearer are returned on the same radio
bearer regardless of the PDCP SDU contents and of the QoS flow descriptions of
the associated QoS Flow as specified in TS 24.501 [21].
Figures 5.3.4.1-1 and 5.3.4.1-2 show functional block diagrams of UE test loop
function for the TMC entity and UE test loop mode A for the case when EN-DC or
NGEN-DC with a MCG bearer and a SCG bearer is configured and for the case EN-
DC or NGEN-DC with a MCG and a split bearer is configured.
Figures 5.3.4.1-3 shows functional block diagrams of UE test loop function for
the TMC entity and UE test loop mode A for the case when standalone NR is
configured Header compression / decompression block in NR PDCP covers ROCH and
EHC protocols as described in TS 38.323 [19] clause 4.2.2.
Figures 5.3.4.1-4 and 5.3.4.1-5 show functional block diagrams of UE test loop
function for the TMC entity and UE test loop mode A for the case when NE-DC
with a MCG bearer and a SCG bearer is configured and for the case NE-DC with a
MCG and a split bearer is configured.
NOTE 1: The number and the order of RB LB Entities in the functional block
diagrams are provided for illustration only. No specific order or numbering is
precluded.
Figure 5.3.4.1-1: Model for Test Mode Control and UE Test Loop Mode A on UE
side when EN-DC or NGEN-DC with MCG bearer and SCG bearer is configured
Figure 5.3.4.1-2: Model for Test Mode Control and UE Test Loop Mode A on UE
side when EN-DC or NGEN-DC with MCG and split bearer configured
Figure 5.3.4.1-3: Model for Test Mode Control and UE Test Loop Mode A on UE
side when standalone NR is configured
Figure 5.3.4.1-4: Model for Test Mode Control and UE Test Loop Mode A on UE
side when NE-DC with MCG and SCG bearers configured
Figure 5.3.4.1-5: Model for Test Mode Control and UE Test Loop Mode A on UE
side when NE-DC with MCG and split bearers configured
UE test loop mode A is mandatory to all 5GS UEs.
Prior to closing the UE test loop mode A, thereby requesting the UE to start
looping back the received data packets, at least one 5GS test mode bi-
directional data radio bearer shall have been established between SS and UE.
This implies that before the procedure for establishing the bi-directional
data radio bearer takes place the SS needs to activate the UE test mode as
specified in subclause 5.2.2.
The 5GS UE test loop mode A operation is the same as the one described in TS
36.509 [6], subclause 5.4.3 with the exception where E-UTRA is mentioned the
same applies for NR, and, the understanding that the NB-IoT mode is out of the
scope of the present specification.
#### 5.3.4.2 UE test loop mode B operation
##### 5.3.4.2.1 General
UE test loop mode B is mandatory to all 5GS UEs supporting one or more PDU
session establishments.
##### 5.3.4.2.2 UE test loop mode B operation for EN-DC and NGEN-DC
UE test loop mode B provides loopback of PDCP SDUs for bi-directional EPS
bearers while UE is operated in NR or E-UTRA modes. When operating in NR or
E-UTRA, the downlink PDCP SDUs or SNDCP PDUs received by the UE on all bi-
directional data radio bearers are returned by the UE on the data radio bearer
associated with an QoS Flow with a QoS flow descriptions matching the
TCP/UDP/IP protocol information within the PDCP SDU or SNDCP SDU as specified
in TS 24.501 [21].
NOTE 1: When multiple PDN connections are established (or multiple Primary PDP
Contexts are active), it is assumed that different IP addresses are allocated
to the UE by the SS on each PDN.
Figures 5.3.4.2.2-1 and 5.3.4.2.2-2 show functional block diagrams of UE test
loop function for the TMC entity and UE test loop mode B for the case when EN-
DC or NGEN-DC with a MCG bearer and a SCG bearer is configured and for the
case EN-DC or NGEN-DC with a MCG and a split bearer is configured.
NOTE 2: The number and the order of RB LB Entities in the UE Test Loop
Function in the functional block diagrams are provided for illustration only.
No specific order or numbering is precluded.
Figure 5.3.4.2.2-1: Model for Test Mode Control and UE Test Loop Mode B on UE
side when EN-DC or NGEN-DC with MCG bearer and SCG bearer is configured
Figure 5.3.4.2.2-2: Model for Test Mode Control and UE Test Loop Mode B on UE
side when EN-DC or NGEN-DC with MCG and split bearer configured
##### 5.3.4.2.3 UE test loop mode B operation for Standalone NR
UE test loop mode B provides loopback of SDAP SDUs for bi-directional QoS
Flows while UE is operated in standalone NR mode. Prior to closing the UE test
loop mode B, thereby requesting the UE to start looping back the received data
packets, at least one 5GS test mode bi-directional QoS Flow shall have been
established between SS and UE. This implies that before the procedure for
establishing the bi-directional QoS Flows takes place the SS needs to activate
the UE test mode as specified in subclause 5.2.2
The downlink SDAP SDUs or IP PDU\'s received by the UE on all bi-directional
QoS Flows are returned by the UE without any modification of the IP header to
the UL QoS flow descriptions handling SAP for transmission in uplink.
NOTE 1: When multiple PDU sessions are established, it is assumed that
different IP addresses are allocated to the UE by the SS on each PDU session.
Figure 5.3.4.2.3-1 shows functional block diagrams of UE test loop function
for the TMC entity and UE test loop mode B for the case when standalone NR is
configured.
NOTE 2: The number and the order of QoS Flow LB Entities in the UE Test Loop
Function in the functional block diagrams are provided for illustration only.
No specific order or numbering is precluded.
The 5GS UE test loop mode B operation is the same as the one described in TS
36.509 [6], subclause 5.4.4 with the exception where E-UTRA is mentioned the
same applies for NR, and, where PDCP SDU is mentioned the same applies for
SDAP SDU.
Figure 5.3.4.2.3-1: Model for Test Mode Control and UE Test Loop Mode B on UE
side when standalone NR is configured
##### 5.3.4.2.4 UE test loop mode B operation for NE-DC
UE test loop mode B provides loopback of SDAP SDUs for bi-directional QoS
Flows while UE is operated in NR or E-UTRA modes. Prior to closing the UE test
loop mode B, thereby requesting the UE to start looping back the received data
packets, at least one 5GS test mode bi-directional QoS Flow shall have been
established between SS and UE. This implies that before the procedure for
establishing the bi-directional QoS Flows takes place the SS needs to activate
the UE test mode as specified in subclause 5.2.2
The downlink SDAP SDUs or IP PDU\'s received by the UE on all bi-directional
QoS Flows are returned by the UE without any modification of the IP header to
the UL QoS flow descriptions handling SAP for transmission in uplink.
NOTE 1: When multiple PDU sessions are established, it is assumed that
different IP addresses are allocated to the UE by the SS on each PDU session.
Figure 5.3.4.2.4-1 and 5.3.4.2.4-2 show functional block diagrams of UE test
loop function for the TMC entity and UE test loop mode B for the case when NE-
DC with a MCG and a SCG bearer is configured and for the case NE-DC with a MCG
and a split bearer is configured.
NOTE 2: The number and the order of QoS Flow LB Entities in the UE Test Loop
Function in the functional block diagrams are provided for illustration only.
No specific order or numbering is precluded.
Figure 5.3.4.2.4-1: Model for Test Mode Control and UE Test Loop Mode B on UE
side when NE-DC with MCG bearer and SCG bearers configured
Figure 5.3.4.2.4-2: Model for Test Mode Control and UE Test Loop Mode B on UE
side when NE-DC with MCG bearer and split bearers configured
#### 5.3.4.2A UE test loop mode C operation
##### 5.3.4.2A.1 General
UE test loop mode C is mandatory for NR UEs supporting MBS.
UE test loop mode C provides counting of successfully received MBS Packets on
one MRB (Multicast MRB or Broadcast MRB) while UE is operating in NR/5GC.
\- For Multicast MRB configuration:
\- Multicast MRB with DL only RLC-UM or bidirectional RLC-UM configuration for
PTP transmission;
\- Multicast MRB with RLC-AM entity configuration for PTP transmission;
\- Multicast MRB with DL only RLC-UM entity for PTM transmission;
\- Multicast MRB with two RLC-UM entities, one DL only RLC-UM entity for PTP
transmission and the other DL only RLC-UM entity for PTM transmission;
\- Multicast MRB with three RLC-UM entities, one DL RLC-UM entity and one UL
RLC-UM entity for PTP transmission and the other DL only RLC-UM entity for PTM
transmission;
\- Multicast MRB with two RLC entities, one RLC-AM entity for PTP transmission
and the other DL only RLC-UM entity for PTM transmission.
\- For Broadcast MRB configuration:
\- Broadcast MRB with one DL only RLC-UM entity for PTM transmission.
Figure 5.3.4.2A.1-1 shows a functional block diagram of UE test loop function
for TC entity and UE test loop mode C for Multicast MRB. The MBMS Packet
Counter function is configured to count successfully received MBS packets on
one Multicast MRB configured by the SS when UE test loop mode C is activated.
Figure 5.3.4.2A.1-2 shows a functional block diagram of UE test loop function
for TC entity and UE test loop mode C for Broadcast MRB. The MBMS Packet
Counter function is configured to count successfully received MBS packets on
one Broadcast MRB configured by the SS when UE test loop mode C is activated.
Figure 5.3.4.2A.1-1: Model for UE test loop mode C on UE side for Multicast
MRB
Figure 5.3.4.2A.1-2: Model for UE test loop mode C on UE side for Broadcast
MRB
##### 5.3.4.2A.2 Reception of MBS packets
For Broadcast MRB, upon receiving a MBS packet on the Broadcast MRB with
Identity of the logical channel of broadcast MTCH configured in CLOSE UE TEST
LOOP when operating in RRC_IDLE or RRC_CONNECTED or RRC_INACTIVE mode with UE
test loop mode C active the UE shall:
1> if UE test loop mode C is active;
2> increment MBMS_PACKET_COUNTER by 1:
1> else:
2> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
For Multicast MRB, upon receiving a MBS packet on the Multicast MRB with MRB
Identity configured in CLOSE UE TEST LOOP when operating in RRC_CONNECTED mode
with UE test loop mode C active the UE shall:
1> if UE test loop mode C is active;
2> increment MBMS_PACKET_COUNTER by 1:
1> else:
2> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
##### 5.3.4.2A.3 Release of RRC connection
When the RRC connection is released then the UE shall:
1> if UE test loop mode C is active for Broadcast MRB:
2> keep UE test loop mode C active.
1> else
2> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
#### 5.3.4.3 UE test loop mode E operation
##### 5.3.4.3.0 General
UE test loop mode E is mandatory to all 5GS UEs supporting NR sidelink.
UE test loop mode E provides means for either transmit or receive of SDAP SDUs
for PC5 QoS Flows while UE is operating in NR sidelink, as specified by the
test loop mode E setup IE in the CLOSE UE TEST LOOP message.
For communication receive operation, UE test loop mode E provides counting of
successfully received STCH PDCP SDUs, PSCCH PHY transport blocks and PSSCH PHY
transport blocks while the UE is operating in NR sidelink communication mode.
For communication transmit operation, UE test loop mode E provides trigger for
transmission of NR sidelink communication packets. For the V2X out-of-coverage
scenarios this trigger utilises AT commands and requires an appropriate
physical interface.
Figure 5.3.4.3.0-1 shows functional block diagrams of UE test loop function
for the TMC entity and UE test loop mode E for the intra-frequency or inter-
frequency concurrent operation case when Communication receive is indicated in
UE test loop mode E setup IE.
Figure 5.3.4.3.0-2 shows functional block diagrams of UE test loop function
for the TMC entity and UE test loop mode E for the PC5-only operation case
when Communication receive is indicated in UE test loop mode E setup IE.
Figure 5.3.4.3.0-3 shows functional block diagrams of UE test loop function
for the TMC entity and UE test loop mode E for the intra-frequency or inter-
frequency concurrent operation case when Communication transmit is indicated
in UE test loop mode E setup IE.
Figure 5.3.4.3.0-4 shows functional block diagrams of UE test loop function
for the TMC entity and UE test loop mode E for the PC5-only operation case
when Communication transmit is indicated in UE test loop mode E setup IE.
Figure 5.3.4.3.0-1: Model for Test Mode Control and UE Test Loop Mode E on UE
side when UE is in intra-frequency or inter-frequency concurrent operation
(Communication receive is indicated in UE test loop mode E setup IE)
Figure 5.3.4.3.0-2: Model for Test Mode Control and UE Test Loop Mode E on UE
side when UE is in PC5-only operation (Communication receive is indicated in
UE test loop mode E setup IE)
Figure 5.3.4.3.0-3: Model for Test Mode Control and UE Test Loop Mode E on UE
side when UE is in intra-frequency or inter-frequency concurrent operation
(Communication transmit is indicated in UE test loop mode E setup IE)
Figure 5.3.4.3.0-4: Model for Test Mode Control and UE Test Loop Mode E on UE
side when UE is in PC5-only operation (when Communication transmit is
indicated in UE test loop mode E setup IE)
The 5GS UE test loop mode E operation is the same as the one described in TS
36.509 [6], subclause 5.4.4c with the exceptions:
\- where V2X is mentioned the same applies for NR sidelink.
\- Subclause 5.4.4c.1 in TS 36.509 [6] is replaced by 5.3.4.3.1 in current
specification.
##### 5.3.4.3.1 Receive or Transmit NR sidelink Communication
When operating in NR idle or connected or any cell selection state or out-of-
coverage state for NR sidelink test scenarios, with UE test loop mode E
active, the UE shall be able to either receive or transmit NR sidelink
communication packets based on the TEST_LOOP_MODE_E_TRIGGER being set as
either RECEIVE or TRANSMIT, respectively. The UE shall:
1> if TEST_LOOP_MODE_E_ACTIVE is set to TRUE:
> 2> if TEST_LOOP_MODE_E_TRIGGER is set to RECEIVE;
3> upon successful reception of a SDAP SDU for NR sidelink communication data
packet:
> 4> set MATCH to zero;
4> if PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N > 0
5> for SL_ID = 0...(PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N-1):
6> if Destination Layer-2 ID corresponding to the SDAP SDU equals
PROSE_COMMUNICATION_DEST_ID(SL_ID):
> 7> increment STCH_PACKET_COUNTER(SL_ID) by 1;
>
> 7> set MATCH to one.
4> if MATCH equal zero:
5> increment STCH_PACKET_COUNTER(PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N) by 1.
> 3> upon successful reception of a PSCCH PHY transport block for NR sidelink
> communication control packet:
4> increment PSCCH_PACKET_COUNTER(PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N) by 1.
3> upon successful reception of a PSSCH PHY transport block for NR sidelink
communication data packet:
4> set MATCH to zero;
4> for SL_ID = 0...(PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N-1):
5> if, in the received PSSCH PHY transport block, Destination Layer-2 ID for
NR sidelink communication equals PROSE_COMMUNICATION_DEST_ID(SL_ID):
> 6> increment PSSCH_PACKET_COUNTER(SL_ID) by 1;
>
> 6> set MATCH to one.
4> if MATCH equal zero:
5> increment PSSCH_PACKET_COUNTER (PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N) by 1.
2> else if TEST_LOOP_MODE_E_TRIGGER is set to TRANSMIT;
3> consider that a request from upper layers to transmit the packet for V2X
service over PC5 has been received.
4> use \'00 00 00 01\'H as the V2X service identifier provided by upper layer
as specified in TS 24.587 [26] subclause 8.4.3.
4> use \'00 00 01 00\'H as the application layer ID provided by upper layer as
specified in TS 24.587 [26] subclause 8.4.4, if needed.
4> create the SDAP SDU with payload size and contents as specified below, see
Figure 5.3.4.3.1-1 and Table 5.3.4.3.1-1, consider the SDAP SDU as the packet
corresponding to the V2X service identifier above, and provide it as the input
of PQF handling depiced in Figure 5.3.4.3.0-3 or Figure 5.3.4.3.0-4 for
transmission in every PSSCH duration according to subclause 5.22.1.1 of TS
38.321 [23] for NR sidelink communication.
2> else if TEST_LOOP_MODE_E_TRIGGER is set to TRANSMIT_SL_MIMO;
3> consider that a request from upper layers to transmit the packet for V2X
service over PC5 has been received.
4> use \'00 00 00 01\'H as the V2X service identifier provided by upper layer
as specified in TS 24.587 [26] subclause 8.4.3.
4> use \'00 00 01 00\'H as the application layer ID provided by upper layer as
specified in TS 24.587 [26] subclause 8.4.4, if needed.
4> create the SDAP SDU with payload size and contents as specified below, see
Figure 5.3.4.3.1-1 and Table 5.3.4.3.1-1, consider the SDAP SDU as the packet
corresponding to the V2X service identifier above, and provide it as the input
of PQF handling depiced in Figure 5.3.4.3.0-3 or Figure 5.3.4.3.0-4 for
transmission in every PSSCH duration according to subclause 5.22.1.1 of TS
38.321 [23] for NR sidelink communication.
4> transmit PSSCH in SL-MIMO mode with 2-layer precoding matrix specified in
TS 38.211 [25] subclause 8.3.1.4.
NOTE: The same SDAP SDU (1 packet) is transmitted (if permitted by test
specific Layer 1 and Layer 2 configuration) by the UE in every PSSCH duration
for NR sidelink communication during the entire duration test loop mode E is
closed.
2> else:
3> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
1> else:
2> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
The SDAP SDU payload for NR sidelink communication packet when UE test loop
mode E is active shall be as specified in Figure 5.3.4.3.1-1 and Table
5.3.4.3.1-1. The UE shall also transmit the corresponding SCI control
information on PSCCH accordingly in the same slot on which the SDAP SDU is
transmitted for NR sidelink Communication.
Figure 5.3.4.3.1-1: NR sidelink communication Transmit operation in UE test
loop mode E
Table 5.3.4.3.1-1: SDAP SDU payload contents for NR sidelink communication
transmit operation in UE test loop mode E
Parameter Value
* * *
Size (N) 300 bytes Payload 00...00
## 5.4 UE Beamlock test Function (UBF)
### 5.4.1 General
The UE Beamlock test function is intended for making the UE to lock the UE
antenna pattern once it has formed a beam towards the base station (SS)
direction following the cell identification procedure in preparation for
subsequent test procedures. Activating the UBF shall lock the antenna pattern
of all active intra-band component carriers and all MIMO layers affected by
the test function.
The Beamlock test function is mandatory for applicable UEs operating in
Frequency Range 2 (FR2).
The SS uses the UE Beamlock test mode activation procedure to command the UE
to lock the UE antenna pattern. The Beamlock activation procedure can apply to
UE transmitter and UE receiver beams either simultaneously or independently.
Figure 5.4.1-1: UE Beamlock test mode activation procedure
The SS uses the UE Beamlock test mode deactivation procedure to command the UE
to re-tracking the beam towards the base station direction. The Beamlock
deactivation procedure can apply to UE transmitter and UE receiver beams
either simultaneously or independently.
Figure 5.4.1-2: UE Beamlock test mode deactivation procedure
### 5.4.2 Activate Beamlock procedure
#### 5.4.2.1 Initiation
The SS requests the UE to activate beamlock by transmitting an ACTIVATE
BEAMLOCK message.
#### 5.4.2.2 Reception of ACTIVATE BEAMLOCK message by UE
When UE receives ACTIVATE BEAMLOCK message then the UE shall:
1> if the UE is operating in FR2 AND is in RRC_CONNECTED state:
2> if UE Beamlock test Function = 01
3> Lock the UE antenna pattern with Tx only
> 2> else if UE Beamlock test Function = 10
>
> 3> Lock the UE antenna pattern with Rx only
>
> 2> else if UE Beamlock test Function = 11
3> Lock the UE antenna pattern with both TxRx
2> Transmit ACTIVATE BEAMLOCK COMPLETE message
1> else:
2> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
### 5.4.3 Deactivate Beamlock procedure
#### 5.4.3.1 Initiation
The SS requests the UE to deactivate beamlock by transmitting a DEACTIVATE
BEAMLOCK message. The SS should do this when the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED state.
#### 5.4.3.2 Reception of DEACTIVATE BEAMLOCK message by UE
When UE receives DEACTIVATE BEAMLOCK message then the UE shall:
1> if the UE is operating in FR2 AND is in RRC_CONNECTED state AND the UE
Beamlock test function is active:
2> unlock the UE antenna pattern and transmit DEACTIVATE BEAMLOCK COMPLETE
message;
1> else:
2> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
#### 5.4.3.3 Release of antenna beamlock by UE
When the UE leaves the RRC_CONNECTED state, the UE shall:
1> if the UE is operating in FR2 AND the UE Beamlock test Function is active
2> unlock the UE antenna pattern;
## 5.5 UE SS-RSRPB per receiver branch reporting
### 5.5.1 General
In 38.215 [22], section 5.1.18 defines SS-RSRPB as below, with its
applicability only to FR2 and in RRC_CONNECTED Mode.
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | SS reference signal received power per branch | | | (SS-RSRPB) is defined as the linear average | | | over the power contributions (in [W]) of the | | | resource elements that carry secondary | | | synchronization signals (SS). The measurement | | | time resource(s) for SS-RSRPB are confined | | | within SS/PBCH Block Measurement Time | | | Configuration (SMTC) window duration. | | | | | | For SS-RSRPB determination demodulation | | | reference signals for physical broadcast | | | channel (PBCH) and, if indicated by higher | | | layers, CSI reference signals in addition to | | | secondary synchronization signals may be used. | | | SS-RSRPB using demodulation reference signal | | | for PBCH or CSI reference signal shall be | | | measured by linear averaging over the power | | | contributions of the resource elements that | | | carry corresponding reference signals taking | | | into account power scaling for the reference | | | signals as defined in 3GPP TS 38.213 [5]. | | | | | | SS-RSRPB shall be measured only among the | | | reference signals corresponding to SS/PBCH | | | blocks with the same SS/PBCH block index and | | | the same physical-layer cell identity. | | | | | | If higher-layers indicate certain SS/PBCH | | | blocks for performing SS-RSRPB measurements, | | | then SS-RSRPB is measured only from the | | | indicated set of SS/PBCH block(s). | | | | | | For frequency range 1, SS-RSRPB is not | | | defined. For frequency range 2, SS-RSRPB shall | | | be measured for each receiver branch based on | | | the combined signal from antenna elements | | | corresponding to the receiver branch. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | RRC_CONNECTED intra-frequency | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
The SS uses the SS-RSRPB reporting procedure to command the UE to report SS-
RSRP per UE receiver branch. The report from the UE shall be a vector of
values, where the number of the reported values equals the number of receiver
branches on the UE.
Figure 5.5.1-1: UE SS-RSRPB reporting procedure
### 5.5.2 Initiation
The SS requests the UE to start reporting SS-RSRP per receiver branch by
transmitting a SS-RSRPB REPORT REQUEST message. And the UE responds back
reporting SS-RSRP per receiver branch via SS-RSRPB REPORT RESPONSE.
### 5.5.3 Reception of SS-RSRPB REPORT REQUEST message by UE
When the UE receives SS-RSRPB REPORT REQUEST message then the UE shall:
1> if the UE is operating in FR2 AND in RRC_CONNECTED state:
2> if quantityConfigRS-Index is configured to UE by RRC Signalling
3> use the L3 filter coefficient given by quantityConfigRS-Index.
2> else
3> use default L3 filter coefficient of fc4.
2> if the MeasObjectId signalled by the IE SS-RSRPB Measurement Config and
ReportConfigNR with reportType set to periodical which is asscociated to this
MeasObjectNR are configured to the UE by RRC Signalling
3> Reply with the SS-RSRPB REPORT RESPONSE using the Measurement configuration
as in the Measurement Object identified in the SS-RSRPB Measurement Config and
reportInterval, reportAmount as in the associated ReportConfigNR
3> Report the SS-RSRPB measurement for the best SSB-ID of the serving PCI
configured in the MeasObject
3> FFS to have multiple cells and/or SSB-ID
2> else if the MeasObjectId signalled by the IE SS-RSRPB Measurement Config is
configured to the UE by RRC signalling but no ReportConfigNR with reportType
set to periodical is asscociated to this MeasObjectNR:
3> Reply with the SS-RSRPB REPORT RESPONSE using the Measurement configuration
as in the Measurement Object identified in the SS-RSRPB Measurement Config and
default reportInterval of 640ms, and default reportAmount of r16
3> Report the SS-RSRPB measurement for the serving PCI and best SSB-ID
configured in the MeasObject
3> FFS to have multiple cells and/or SSB-ID
2> else the UE behaviour is unspecified.
1> else:
2> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
The SS-RSRPB Report Request & SS-RSRPB Report Response Message Octets are
defined below in Section 6.5.
## 5.6 UE Positioning test mode procedures
### 5.6.1 Reset UE Positioning Stored Information
#### 5.6.1.1 General
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 5.5.1.1.
#### 5.6.1.2 Initiation
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 5.5.1.2.
#### 5.6.1.3 Reception of RESET UE POSITIONING STORED INFORMATION message by
UE
When UE receives RESET UE POSITIONING STORED INFORMATION message then the UE
shall:
1> if the IE \"UE Positioning Technology\" has the value 'AGNSS':
2> discard any stored GNSS reference time, reference position, and any other
aiding data obtained or derived during the previous test instance (e.g.
expected ranges and Doppler);
2> temporarily disable any sensor data (if applicable) that can aid the
positioning for the duration of the subsequent positioning procedure.
1> if the IE \"UE Positioning Technology\" has the value 'OTDOA':
2> discard any stored OTDOA reference and neighbour cell info assistance data;
2> use the reference cell in the provided OTDOA assistance data as reference
cell for reporting RSTD measurements in the subsequent positioning procedure.
NOTE 1: Where OTDOA is mentioned this applies to OTDOA using LTE cells.
1> if the IE \"UE Positioning Technology\" has the value 'MBS':
2> discard any stored MBS assistance data and information obtained or derived
during the previous test instance (e.g. Beacon PN code and slot information
and code phase measurements);
2> temporarily disable any sensor data (if applicable) that can aid the
positioning for the duration of the subsequent positioning procedure.
1> if the IE \"UE Positioning Technology\" has the value 'WLAN':
2> discard any stored WLAN assistance data and information obtained or derived
during the previous test instance;
1> if the IE \"UE Positioning Technology\" has the value 'Bluetooth':
2> discard any stored Bluetooth data obtained or derived during the previous
test instance;
1> if the IE \"UE Positioning Technology\" has the value 'Sensor':
2> discard any stored Sensor assistance data and information obtained or
derived during the previous test instance;
1> if the IE \"UE Positioning Technology\" has the value 'DL-TDOA':
2> discard any stored DL-PRS assistance data and information obtained or
derived during the previous test instance;
1> if the IE \"UE Positioning Technology\" has the value 'DL-AoD':
2> discard any stored DL-PRS assistance data and information obtained or
derived during the previous test instance;
1> if the IE \"UE Positioning Technology\" has the value 'Multi-RTT':
2> discard any stored UL-SRS configuration and DL-PRS assistance data obtained
or derived during the previous test instance;
1> otherwise:
2> ignore the message.
### 5.6.2 Update UE Location Information
Figure 5.6.2-1: Update UE Location Information procedure
#### 5.6.2.1 General
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 5.5.2.1.
#### 5.6.2.2 Initiation
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 5.5.2.2.
#### 5.6.2.3 Reception of UPDATE UE LOCATION INFORMATION message by UE
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 5.5.2.3.
### 5.6.3 UTC time reset
FFS
## 5.7 NSSAI delete test function
### 5.7.1 General
The SS use the NSSAI delete test procedure to delete different type of NSSAI
information in the UE, see Figure 5.7.1-1. The different types of NSSAI
information that can be deleted in a NSSAI DELETE REQUEST message are Default
configured NSSAI, Configured NSSAI or Allowed NSSAI information, see clause
6.7. The NSSAI delete test procedure is limited to delete one type of NSSAI
information. To delete more than one type of NSSAI information the SS needs to
repeat the procedure for each type of NSSAI information.
Figure 5.7.1-1: NSSAI delete test procedure
5.7.2 Initiation
The SS requests the UE to delete NSSAI information by transmitting a NSSAI
DELETE REQUEST message and the UE confirms the deletion of the requested NSSAI
information by responding with a NSSAI DELETE RESPONSE message.
5.7.3 Reception of NSSAI DELETE REQUEST message by UE
When UE receives NSSAI DELETE REQUEST message then the UE shall:
1> if the UE is operating in RRC_CONNECTED state:
2> if Delete NSSAI type = 00:
3> Delete the default configured NSSAI stored at the UE if any.
> 2> else if Delete NSSAI type = 01:
3> if Octets 3,4 and 5 all set to \"00000000\":
4> Delete configured NSSAI for all PLMNs stored at the UE if any.
3> else if at least one of octets 3,4 or 5 \<> \"00000000\":
4> Delete configured NSSAI for the PLMN indicated by octet 3,4 and 5 stored at
the UE if any.
2> else if Delete NSSAI type = 10:
3> if Octets 3,4 and 5 all set to \"00000000\":
4> if Access type =00:
5> Delete allowed NSSAI associated with 3GPP access for all PLMNs stored at
the UE if any.
4> else if Access type =01:
5> Delete allowed NSSAI associated with non-3GPP access for all PLMNs stored
at the UE if any.
4> else if Access type =10:
5> Delete allowed NSSAI associated with both 3GPP and non-3GPP access for all
PLMNs stored at the UE if any.
4> else
5> The UE behaviour is unspecified.
3> else if At least one of octets 3,4 or 5 \<> \"00000000\":
4> if Access type =00:
5> Delete allowed NSSAI associated with 3GPP access for the PLMN indicated by
octet 3,4 and 5 stored at the UE if any.
4> else if Access type =01:
5> Delete allowed NSSAI associated with non-3GPP access for the PLMN indicated
by octet 3,4 and 5 stored at the UE if any.
4> else if Access type =10:
5> Delete allowed NSSAI associated with both 3GPP and non-3GPP access for the
PLMN indicated by octet 3,4 and 5 stored at the UE if any.
4> else
5> The UE behaviour is unspecified.
2> else
3> The UE behaviour is unspecified.
2> Transmit NSSAI DELETE RESPONSE message.
1> else:
2> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
## 5.8 Set UAI test function
### 5.8.1 General
The SS uses the Set UAI test procedure to trigger a change of preference in
the UE that will cause the indication of UE Assistance Information (UAI) by
the UE, see figure 5.8.1-1. The different types of information that can be
sent in a SET UAI REQUEST is preferred RRC state, see clause 6.8.
Figure 5.8.1-1: Set UAI test procedure
### 5.8.2 Initiation
The SS requests the UE to set the preferred RRC state of UE Assistance
Information by transmitting a SET UAI REQUEST message and the UE confirms by
responding with a SET UAI RESPONSE message.
5.8.3 Reception of SET UAI REQUEST message by UE
When UE receives SET UAI REQUEST message then the UE shall:
  1. if the UE is operating in RRC_CONNECTED state:
2> set its preferred RRC state within the release preference, to the
equivalent value as received in the Preferred RRC State of the SET UAI REQUEST
message.
2> transmit SET UAI RESPONSE message.
1> else:
2> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
## 5.9 NR Sidelink Packet Counter reporting procedure
### 5.9.1 Request NR Sidelink Packet Counter value
Figure 5.9.1-1: NR Sidelink Packet Counter reporting procedure based on TC
protocol messages
Figure 5.9.1-2: NR Sidelink Packet Counter reporting procedure based on AT
Commands
#### 5.9.1.1 General
The SS uses the NR Sidelink Packet Counter reporting procedure to request
reporting of current NR sidelink related state variables. For mode E the state
variables STCH_PACKET_COUNTER, PSCCH_PACKET_COUNTER and PSSCH_PACKET_COUNTER
of NR sidelink are reported.
#### 5.9.1.2 Initiation
The SS requests the UE to report its current value of STCH_PACKET_COUNTER,
PSCCH_PACKET_COUNTER and PSSCH_PACKET_COUNTER of NR sidelink for test loop
mode E by transmitting an UE TEST LOOP NR SIDELINK PACKET COUNTER REQUEST
message or by transmitting an AT Command +CUSPCREQ.
#### 5.9.1.3 Reception of UE TEST LOOP NR SIDELINK COUNTER REQUEST by the UE
Upon receiving the UE TEST LOOP NR SIDELINK PACKET COUNTER REQUEST message the
UE shall:
1> if TEST_LOOP_MODE_E_ACTIVE is TRUE:
2> set the IE NR Sidelink PSCCH Packet Counter(s) Value in the UE TEST LOOP
PROSE COUNTER RESPONSE message to the value of the state variable(s)
PSCCH_PACKET_COUNTER(SL_ID) with SL_ID = 0...PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N;
2> set the IE NR Sidelink STCH Packet Counter(s) Value in the UE TEST LOOP
PROSE COUNTER RESPONSE message to the value of the state variable
STCH_PACKET_COUNTER(SL_ID) with SL_ID = 0...PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N;
2> set the IE NR Sidelink PSSCH Packet Counter(s) Value in the UE TEST LOOP
PROSE COUNTER RESPONSE message to the value of the state variable(s)
PSSCH_PACKET_COUNTER(SL_ID) with SL_ID = 0...PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N;
2> send the UE TEST LOOP NR SIDELINK COUNTER RESPONSE message.
  1. else:
2> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
#### 5.9.1.4 Reception of AT Command +CUSPCREQ by the UE
Upon receiving the AT Command +CUSPCREQ the UE shall:
1> if TEST_LOOP_MODE_E_ACTIVE is TRUE:
2> in the response message of command +CUSPCREQ, set the parameter \ to
2; set the parameter \ to 1; set the parameter \ to
4*(PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N+1); set the parameter \ to the
value of the state variable(s) PSCCH_PACKET_COUNTER(SL_ID) with SL_ID =
0...PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N;
2> in the response message of command +CUSPCREQ, set the parameter \ to
2; set the parameter \ to 1; set the parameter \ to
4*(PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N+1); set the parameter \ to the
value of the state variable STCH_PACKET_COUNTER(SL_ID) with SL_ID =
0...PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N;
2> in the response message of command +CUSPCREQ, set the parameter \ to
2; set the parameter \ to 1; set the parameter \ to
4*PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N+1; set the parameter \ to the value
of the state variable(s) PSSCH_PACKET_COUNTER(SL_ID) with SL_ID =
0...PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N;
2> send the response message +CUSPCREQ:
[\,\,\,\],
[\,\,\,\],
[\,\,\,\].
1> else:
2> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
## 5.10 Set UL Message test function
### 5.10.1 General
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 5.10.1.
5.10.2 Initiation
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 5.10.2.
5.10.3 Reception of SET UL MESSAGE REQUEST message by UE
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 5.10.3 with the following exception:
\- the predefined UE capability container is defined in Annex A.1
## 5.11 UE Power Limit Function (UPLF)
### 5.11.1 General
The UE Power Limit Function is intended for the SS to communicate to the UE to
apply a backoff of transmitted power on the NR primary component carrier when
in FR2 carrier aggregation mode. On activation of this test function, the UE
shall apply a configured power backoff on the primary component carrier to
provide sufficient power head room for the other (secondary) component
carrier(s). The UE power limit function is mandatory for applicable UEs
operating in Frequency Range 2 (FR2) and supporting UL CA from Rel-16.
The SS uses the UE Power Limit test mode activation procedure to send a power
limit request to the UE. The transmission from the SS shall be a vector of
values, where the number of the reported values equals the back-off or power
limit to be applied by the UE.
Figure 5.11.1-1: Activate Power Limit test mode procedure
Figure 5.11.1-2: Deactivate Power Limit test mode procedure
### 5.11.2 Activate Power Limit Procedure
#### 5.11.2.1 Initiation
The SS requests the UE to apply the power limit by transmitting an ACTIVATE
POWER LIMIT REQUEST message. The UE confirms that the power limit function is
activated by sending an ACTIVATE POWER LIMIT RESPONSE.
#### 5.11.2.2 Reception of ACTIVATE POWER LIMIT REQUEST by UE
When the UE receives the ACTIVATE POWER LIMIT REQUEST message, then the UE
shall:
1> if the UE is operating in FR2 AND is in RRC_CONNECTED state:
2> UE limits power on PCell according to a back-off defined by X~max,_PCell._
~
1> else;
2> the UE behaviour is unspecified
The ACTIVATE POWER LIMIT REQUEST and ACTIVATE POWER LIMIT RESPONSE Message
Octets Octets and power back-off X~max,_PCell_ ~ are defined below in Section
6.11.
### 5.11.3 Deactivate Power Limit Procedure
#### 5.11.3.1 Initiation
The SS requests the UE to deactivate from the power limit state by
transmitting a DEACTIVATE POWER LIMIT REQUEST message. The SS should do this
when the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED state.
#### 5.11.3.2 Reception of DEACTIVATE POWER LIMIT REQUEST message by UE
When UE receives DEACTIVATE POWER LIMIT REQUEST message then the UE shall:
1> if the UE is operating in FR2 AND is in RRC_CONNECTED state AND the UE
Power Limit test function is active:
2> Remove UE power limit on PCell and transmit DEACTIVATE POWER LIMIT RESPONSE
message.
1> else:
2> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
#### 5.11.3.3 Removal of power limits by UE
When the UE leaves the RRC_CONNECTED state, the UE shall:
1> if the UE is operating in FR2 AND the UE Power limit test Function is
active
2> remove UE power limit on PCell;
## 5.12 MBMS Packet Counter reporting procedure
### 5.12.1 Request MBMS Packet Counter value
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 5.6 with the following exception:
\- MBMS Packet is replaced by MBS Packet
## 5.13 Set MUSIM UAI test function
### 5.13.1 General
The SS uses the Set MUSIM UAI test procedure to trigger a change of preference
in the MUSIM UE that will cause the indication of UE Assistance Information
(UAI) by the UE, see figure 5.8.1-1. The different types of information that
can be sent in a SET MUSIM UAI REQUEST is preferred RRC state and gap
preference for MUSIM, see clause 6.13.
Figure 5.13.1-1: Set MUSIM UAI test procedure
### 5.13.2 Initiation
The SS requests the UE to set the MUSIM related UE Assistance Information by
transmitting a SET MUSIM UAI REQUEST message and the UE confirms by responding
with a SET MUSIM UAI RESPONSE message.
5.13.3 Reception of SET MUSIM UAI REQUEST message by UE
When UE receives SET MUSIM UAI REQUEST message then the UE shall:
1> if the MUSIM UE is operating in RRC_CONNECTED state:
2> set its preferred RRC state within the release preference, to the
equivalent value as received in the _musim-PreferredRRC-State-r17_ of the SET
MUSIM UAI REQUEST message.
2> transmit SET MUSIM UAI RESPONSE message.
1> if the UE has a preference for MUSIM periodic gap(s):
2> set its preferred gap preference, to the equivalent value as received in
the _musim-GapPreferenceList_ of the SET MUSIM UAI REQUEST message.
2> transmit SET MUSIM UAI RESPONSE message.
else:
2> the UE behaviour is unspecified.
# 6 Test Mode Control message definitions
## 6.1 General
Clause 6 describes only TMC protocol messages.
When UE under test is operated in EN-DC or NGEN-DC the TMC messages are sent
using the E-UTRA RRC _DLInformationTransfer_ and _ULInformationTransfer_
procedures, see TS 36.331 [10], subclauses 5.6.1 and 5.6.2.
When UE under test is operated in NR or NE-DC the TMC messages are sent using
the NR RRC _DLInformationTransfer_ and _ULInformationTransfer_ procedures, see
TS 38.331 [11], subclauses 5.7.1 and 5.7.2.
NOTE 1: A message received with skip indicator different from 0 will be
ignored.
NOTE 2: For general definition of Layer 3 message format see TS 24.007 [7],
clause 11.
NOTE 3: 5GS use the same protocol discriminator value (\"1111\") as E-UTRA,
UTRA and GSM/GPRS as specified in TS 24.007 [7], subclause 11.2.3.1.1. 5GS
test control messages the message type value series 101xxxxx is reserved,
where x represents 0 or 1. The message type values 0000xxxx to 1001xxxx are
reserved to E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/GPRS as specified in TS 36.509 [6], TS 34.109
[8] and TS 44.014 [9]. For 5GS test control messages that are common with
E-UTRA control messages in TS 36.509 [6] the 5GS test control messages use the
same message type values as used for the E-UTRA test control messages in TS
36.509 [6].
All the TMC messages are integrity protected and ciphered according to TS
24.301 [17] subclause 4.4 or TS 24.501 [21] subclause 4.4 depending on whether
the TMC message is sent via EPS or 5GC.
## 6.2 Test mode messages
### 6.2.1 ACTIVATE TEST MODE
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 6.5.
### 6.2.2 ACTIVATE TEST MODE COMPLETE
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 6.6.
### 6.2.3 DEACTIVATE TEST MODE
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 6.7.
### 6.2.4 DEACTIVATE TEST MODE COMPLETE
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 6.8.
## 6.3 Test loop messages
### 6.3.1 CLOSE UE TEST LOOP
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 6.1 with the following exception:
\- The supported test modes for 5GS are limited to those specified in
subclause 5.3.4.
\- LB Setup DRB#k IE is:
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no.
* * *
Z15 Z14 Z13 Z12 Z11 Z10 Z9 Z8 octet 1 Z7 Z6 Z5 Z4 Z3 Z2 Z1 Z0 octet 2 Reserved
Q5 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q0 octet 3
Z15..Z0 = Uplink PDCP SDU size in bits 0.. 12160 (binary coded, Z15 is most
significant bit and Z0 least significant bit). See Note 1.\ Q5 = 0 for E-UTRA
Data Radio Bearers and Q5 = 1 for NR Data Radio Bearers
Q4..Q0 = 0..31 representing DRB-Identity -1, where DRB-Identity identifies the
data radio bearer in accordance to TS 36.331 [10] for E-UTRA Data Radio
Bearers and TS 38.331 [11] for NR Data Radio Bearers [11] (binary coded, Q4 is
most significant bit and Q0 least significant bit).
NOTE 1: The UL PDCP SDU size is limited to 12160 bits (1520 octets).
NOTE 2: A \"LB Setup DRB IE\" is only needed for a DRB if UL PDCP SDU scaling
is needed. If there is no \"LB Setup DRB IE\" associated with a DRB in the
CLOSE UE TEST LOOP message, then the same size of the PDCP SDU received in
downlink is returned in uplink.
NOTE 3: The UL PDCP SDU size shall be byte aligned (i.e. multiple of 8 bits)
according to TS 36.323 [18] clause 6.2.1 for E-UTRA Data Radio Bearers and TS
38.323 [19] clause 6.2.1 for NR Data Radio Bearers.
\- The Communication Transmit or Receive message in UE test loop mode E setup
is as below:
And where UE test loop mode C setup is:
+---+-----------------+---------+ | | 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 | | +---+-----------------+---------+ | | MRB ID | octet 1 | | | | | | | | octet 2 | | | | | | | | octet 3 | +---+-----------------+---------+
Where MRB ID is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. Reserved C0 octet 1  
A8 A7 A6 A5 A4 A3 A2 A1 octet 2 A0 Reserved octet 3
* * *
A8..A0 = 0..511 representing MRB-Identity -1, where MRB-Identity identifies
the Multicast MRB in accordance to TS 38.331 [11] (binary coded, A8 is most
significant bit and A0 least significant bit).
A4..A0= 0..31 representing Identity of the logical channel of broadcast MTCH
-1, where Identity of the logical channel of broadcast MTCH identifies the
Broadcast MRB in accordance to TS 38.321 [23] (binary coded, A4 is most
significant bit and A0 least significant bit).
C0=0 is used to trigger the UE to count the MBS packet on Multicast MRB of the
MRB-Identity configured in A8..A0; C0=1 is used to trigger the UE to count the
MBS packet on Broadcast MRB of the Identity of the logical channel of
broadcast MTCH configured in A4..A0.
And where UE test loop mode E setup is:
+---+-------------------------------------------------+--------------+ | | 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 | | +---+-------------------------------------------------+--------------+ | | Length of UE test loop mode E Monitor setup | Octet 1 | | | contents in bytes | | +---+-------------------------------------------------+--------------+ | | Communication Transmit or Receive | Octet 2 | +---+-------------------------------------------------+--------------+ | | Monitor list | Octet 3 | | | | | | | | Octet N+2 | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | Octet 3*N+2 | +---+-------------------------------------------------+--------------+
where Communication Transmit or Receive is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. Reserved E1 E0 octet 1
* * *
E0 = 0 is used to trigger the UE to continuously monitor and receive NR
sidelink communication message (on STCH, PSCCH and PSSCH), and E0 = 1 is used
to trigger the UE to start continuous transmitting NR sidelink communication
messages (on STCH).
If E0 = 1, E1 = 1 is used to indicate UE shall transmit with 2-layer SL-MIMO
transmission with precoding matrix defined in TS 38.211 [25] subclause
8.3.1.4, and E1 = 0 is used to indicate UE shall transmit with single antenna
port; otherwise E1 is used as reserved bit.
### 6.3.2 CLOSE UE TEST LOOP COMPLETE
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 6.2.
### 6.3.3 OPEN UE TEST LOOP
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 6.3.
### 6.3.4 OPEN UE TEST LOOP COMPLETE
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 6.4.
### 6.3.5 Void
### 6.3.6 Void
## 6.4 Beamlock messages
### 6.4.1 ACTIVATE BEAMLOCK
This message is only sent in the direction SS to UE.
* * *
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length Protocol discriminator TS
24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip indicator TS 24.007 [5], sub
clause 11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1 UE Beamlock test Function M V 1
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 octet 1
* * *
where UE Beamlock test Function is:
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no.
* * *
                          X1   X2   octet 1
where X1,X2 = 01 for activate beamlock of Tx only, 10 for activate beamlock of
Rx only and 11 for activate beamlock of both TxRx.
_NOTE:_ X1,X2 = 00 is not used
### 6.4.2 ACTIVATE BEAMLOCK COMPLETE
This message is only sent in the direction UE to SS.
* * *
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length Protocol discriminator TS
24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip indicator TS 24.007 [5], sub
clause 11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 octet 1
* * *
### 6.4.3 DEACTIVATE BEAMLOCK
This message is only sent in the direction SS to UE.
* * *
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length Protocol discriminator TS
24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip indicator TS 24.007 [5], sub
clause 11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 octet 1
* * *
### 6.4.4 DEACTIVATE BEAMLOCK COMPLETE
This message is only sent in the direction UE to SS.
* * *
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length Protocol discriminator TS
24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip indicator TS 24.007 [5], sub
clause 11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 1 0 0 0 1 1 octet 1
* * *
## 6.5 UE SS-RSRP per receiver branch reporting messages
### 6.5.1 SS-RSRPB REPORT REQUEST
This message is only sent in the direction SS to UE.
* * *
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length Protocol discriminator TS
24.007 [5], subclause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip indicator TS 24.007 [5], sub
clause 11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1 SS-RSRPB Measurement Config M V 1
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 octet 1
* * *
where SS-RSRPB Measurement Config is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. X8 X7 X6 X5 X4 X3 X2 X1 octet 1
* * *
This maps to the MeasObjectId as configured by the RRC Reconfig Message.
### 6.5.2 SS-RSRPB REPORT RESPONSE
This message is only sent in the direction UE to SS representing the measured
SS-RSRPB. The reporting range of SS-RSRPB (0 to 126) maps to the RSRP values
in dBm as per Table 10.1.6.1-1 in TS 38.133. To report SS-RSRPB (0 to 126) per
measured SSB, UE shall send 3 Octets, the First Octet reporting the Measured
SSB ID (values 0 to 63 representing 6 bits X1 to X6 of Octet 1), Second Octet
reporting SS-RSRPB for Branch#0 and third Octet reporting SS-RSRPB for
Branch#1.
* * *
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length Protocol discriminator TS
24.007 [5], subclause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip indicator TS 24.007 [5], sub
clause 11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1 SS-RSRPB report response param M V
3
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 1 0 0 1 0 1 octet 1
* * *
where SS-RSRPB report response param is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. Reserved X6 X5 X4 X3 X2 X1 octet 1  
16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 bit no. X16 X15 X14 X13 X12 X11 X10 X9 octet 2 24 23 22
21 20 19 18 17 bit no. X24 X23 X22 X21 X20 X19 X18 X17 octet 3
* * *
where X1 to X24 spanning over three octets shall have the following
definition:
Definition 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no.
* * *
SSB ID Reserved X6 X5 X4 X3 X2 X1 octet 1  
RSRPB Branch #0 0 X15 X14 X13 X12 X11 X10 X9 octet 2 RSRPB Branch #1 0 X23 X22
X21 X20 X19 X18 X17 octet 3
## 6.6 UE Positioning messages
### 6.6.1 RESET UE POSITIONING STORED INFORMATION
This message is only sent in the direction SS to UE.
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length
* * *
Protocol discriminator TS 24.007 [7], subclause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip
indicator TS 24.007 [7], subclause 11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1 UE
Positioning Technology M V 1
where message type is:
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no.
* * *
1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 octet 1
where UE Positioning Technology is a single octet IE:
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no.
* * *
UE Positioning Technology octet 1
UE Positioning Technology value
Bits
**8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1**
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 AGNSS
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 OTDOA
0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 MBS
0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 WLAN
0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 Bluetooth
0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 Sensor
0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 Multi-RTT
0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 DL-TDOA
0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 DL-AoD
All other cause values are reserved for future use.
### 6.6.2 UPDATE UE LOCATION INFORMATION
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 6.12.
## 6.7 NSSAI delete messages
### 6.7.1 NSSAI DELETE REQUEST
This message is only sent in the direction SS to UE.
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length
* * *
Protocol discriminator TS 24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip
indicator TS 24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1 Delete
NSSAI type M V 1 Configured NSSAI CV- ConfNSSAI V 3 Allowed NSSAI CV-
AllowedNSSAI V 4
* * *
Condition Explanation CV- ConfNSSAI This IE is mandatory present if the IE
\"Delete NSSAI type\" is set to Delete Configured NSSAI. Else it shall be
absent. CV- AllowedNSSAI This IE is mandatory present if the IE \"Delete NSSAI
type\" is set to Delete Allowed NSSAI. Else it shall be absent.
* * *
where message type is:
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no.
* * *
1 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 octet 1
where Delete NSSAI type is:
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no.
* * *
Reserved E1 E0 octet 2
E1=0 and E0=0; Delete default configured NSSAI.
E1=0 and E0=1; Delete Configured NSSAI.
E1=1 and E0=0: Delete Allowed NSSAI.
where Configured NSSAI type
E1=1 and E0=1: Reserved.
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no.
* * *
MCC digit 2 MCC digit 1 octet 3  
MNC digit 3 MCC digit 3 octet 4  
MNC digit 2 MNC digit 1 octet 5
Octets 3,4 and 5 all set to \"00000000\": Delete configured NSSAI for all
configured PLMNs.
At least one of octets 3,4 or 5 \<> \"00000000\": Delete configured NSSAI for
the PLMN indicated by octet 3.4 and 5,
\- where octets 3 and 4 (bits 1 to 4) is MCC, Mobile country code. The MCC is
BCD coding. The MCC field is coded as in ITU-T Rec. E212 [39], annex A; and
\- where octet 4 (bits 5 to 8) and octet 5 is MNC, Mobile network code. The
MNC is BCD coding. The MNC shall consist of 2 or 3 digits. If only two digits
are used in the MNC then shall MNC digit 3 be set to \"1111\".
where Allowed NSSAI:
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no.
* * *
MCC digit 2 MCC digit 1 octet 3  
MNC digit 3 MCC digit 3 octet 4  
MNC digit 2 MNC digit 1 octet 5  
Reserved A1 A0 octet 6
Octets 3,4 and 5 all set to \"00000000\": Delete NSSAI for all allowed PLMNs.
At least one of octets 3,4 or 5 \<> \"00000000\": Delete allowed NSSAI for the
PLMN indicated by octet 3.4 and 5,
\- where octets 3 and 4 (bits 1 to 4): MCC, Mobile country code. The MCC is
BCD Coding. The MCC field is coded as in ITU-T Rec. E212 [39], annex A; and
\- where octet 4 (bits 5 to 8) and octet 5 is MNC, Mobile network code. The
MNC is BCD coding. The MNC shall consist of 2 or 3 digits. If only two digits
are used in the MNC then shall MNC digit 3 be coded as \"1111\"; and
\- where octet 6 is
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no.
* * *
Reserved A1 A0 octet 6
> where A0 and A1 define the access type:
**A1** **A0** **Value**
* * *
0 0 3GPP access 0 1 Non-3GPP access 1 0 3GPP access and non-3GPP access 1 1
reserved
### 6.7.2 NSSAI DELETE RESPONSE
This message is only sent in the direction UE to SS.
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length
* * *
Protocol discriminator TS 24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip
indicator TS 24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1
where message type is:
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no.
* * *
1 0 1 0 0 1 1 1 octet 1
## 6.8 SET UAI REQUEST
### 6.8.1 SET UAI REQUEST
This message is only sent in the direction SS to UE.
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length
* * *
Protocol discriminator TS 24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip
indicator TS 24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1
Preferred RRC State M V 1
where message type is:
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no.
* * *
1 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 octet 1
where Preferred RRC State is:
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no.
* * *
Reserved E1 E0 octet 2
E1=0 and E0=0; idle.
E1=0 and E0=1; inactive.
E1=1 and E0=0: connected.
E1=1 and E0=1: outOfConnected.
### 6.8.2 SET UAI RESPONSE
This message is only sent in the direction UE to SS.
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length
* * *
Protocol discriminator TS 24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip
indicator TS 24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1
where message type is:
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no.
* * *
1 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 octet 1
## 6.9 NR SIDELINK PACKET COUNTER reporting messages
### 6.9.1 UE TEST LOOP NR SIDELINK PACKET COUNTER REQUEST
This message is only sent in the direction SS to UE.
* * *
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length Protocol discriminator TS
24.007 [5], subclause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip indicator TS 24.007 [5], subclause
11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 octet 1
* * *
### 6.9.2 UE TEST LOOP NR SIDELINK PACKET COUNTER RESPONSE
This message is only sent in the direction UE to SS.
* * *
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length Protocol discriminator TS
24.007 [5], subclause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip indicator TS 24.007 [5], subclause
11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1 NR Sidelink PSCCH Packet Counter(s) Value
CV-ModeE TLV 4*(N^C^+1)+2 NR Sidelink STCH Packet Counter(s) Value CV-ModeE
TLV 4*(N^C^+1)+2 NR Sidelink PSSCH Packet Counter(s) Value CV-ModeE TLV
4*(N^C^+1)+2
* * *
* * *
Condition Explanation CV-ModeE This IE is mandatory present if
TEST_LOOP_MODE_E_ACTIVE is TRUE else it shall be absent. N^C^ =
PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N.
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 1 octet 1
* * *
And where NR Sidelink PSCCH Packet Counter(s) Value is:
+-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 | | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | NR Sidelink PSCCH Packet Counter(s) Value type | octet 1 | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | Length of NR Sidelink PSCCH Packet Counter(s) | octet 2 | | Value contents in bytes | | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | NR Sidelink PSCCH Packet Counter IE #0 | octet 3 | | | | | | octet 4 | | | | | | octet 5 | | | | | | octet 6 | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | ... | | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | NR Sidelink PSCCH Packet Counter IE #N^C^ | octet 3+4 * N^C^ | | | | | | octet 4+4 * N^C^ | | | | | | octet 5+4 * N^C^ | | | | | | octet 6+4 * N^C^ | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+
And where NR Sidelink PSCCH Packet Counter(s) Value type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 octet 1
* * *
And where NR Sidelink PSCCH Packet Counter IE #n is:
* * *
D31 D30 D29 D28 D27 D26 D25 D24 octet 1 D23 D22 D21 D20 D19 D18 D17 D16 octet
2 D15 D14 D13 D12 D11 D10 D9 D8 octet 3 D7 D6 D5 D4 D3 D2 D1 D0 octet 4
* * *
D31..D0 = PSCCH packet counter 0.. 4294967295 (binary coded, D31 is most
significant bit and D0 least significant bit) corresponding to
PSCCH_PACKET_COUNTER(SL_ID = n).
And where NR Sidelink STCH Packet Counter(s) Value is:
+-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 | | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | NR Sidelink STCH Packet Counter(s) Value type | octet 1 | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | Length of NR Sidelink STCH Packet Counter(s) | octet 2 | | Value in bytes | | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | NR Sidelink STCH Packet Counter IE #0 | octet 3 | | | | | | octet 4 | | | | | | octet 5 | | | | | | octet 6 | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | ... | | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | NR Sidelink STCH Packet Counter IE #N^C^ | octet 3+4 * N^C^ | | | | | | octet 4+4 * N^C^ | | | | | | octet 5+4 * N^C^ | | | | | | octet 6+4 * N^C^ | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+
where NR Sidelink STCH Packet Counter(s) Value type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 octet 1
* * *
And where NR Sidelink STCH Packet Counter IE #n is:
* * *
E31 E30 E29 E28 E27 E26 E25 E24 octet 1 E23 E22 E21 E20 E19 E18 E17 E16 octet
2 E15 E14 E13 E12 E11 E10 E9 E8 octet 3 E7 E6 E5 E4 E3 E2 E1 E0 octet 4
* * *
E31..E0 = STCH Packet Counter value 0.. 4294967295 (binary coded, E31 is most
significant bit and E0 least significant bit) corresponding to
STCH_PACKET_COUNTER(SL_ID = n).
And where NR Sidelink PSSCH Packet Counter(s) Value is:
+-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 | | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | NR Sidelink PSSCH Packet Counter(s) Value type | octet 1 | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | Length of NR Sidelink PSSCH Packet Counter(s) | octet 2 | | Value contents in bytes | | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | NR Sidelink PSSCH Packet Counter IE #0 | octet 3 | | | | | | octet 4 | | | | | | octet 5 | | | | | | octet 6 | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | ... | | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | NR Sidelink PSSCH Packet Counter IE #N^C^ | octet 3+4 * N^C^ | | | | | | octet 4+4 * N^C^ | | | | | | octet 5+4 * N | | | | | | octet 6+4 * N^C^ | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+
And where NR Sidelink PSSCH Packet Counter(s) Value type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 octet 1
* * *
And where NR Sidelink PSSCH Packet Counter IE #n is:
* * *
F31 F30 F29 F28 F27 F26 F25 F24 octet 1 F23 F22 F21 F20 F19 F18 F17 F16 octet
2 F15 F14 F13 F12 F11 F10 F9 F8 octet 3 F7 F6 F5 F4 F3 F2 F1 F0 octet 4
* * *
F31..F0 = PSSCH packet counter 0.. 4294967295 (binary coded, F31 is most
significant bit and F0 least significant bit) corresponding to
PSSCH_PACKET_COUNTER(SL_ID = n).
## 6.10 SET UL MESSAGE
### 6.10.1 SET UL MESSAGE REQUEST
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 6.19.1
### 6.10.2 SET UL MESSAGE RESPONSE
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 6.19.2.
## 6.11 Power Limit messages
### 6.11.1 ACTIVATE POWER LIMIT REQUEST
The values sent the SS as part of this test function maps to the values
defined in Table 6.11.1-1.
For intra-band contiguous FR2 UL-CA scenarios where it is critical to prevent
drop of the secondary component carrier(s) due to prioritization rules in
section 7.5 of TS 38.213, a parameter X~max,_f_ ,_PCell\_ ~ is defined for the
Pcell such that
X~max,\ _PCell\_ ~ = 10 log~10~(_total aggregated BW/PCell BW_)
X~max,_i_ ,_PCell\_ ~ is the back-off in transmit power applied on the primary
component carrier from P~CMAX,_f,c.\_ ~This ensure sufficient power allocation
is possible on the secondary component carrier(s)
This message is only sent in the direction SS to UE.
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length
* * *
Protocol discriminator TS 24.007 [7], subclause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip
indicator TS 24.007 [7], subclause 11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1 TOTAL
NR AGGREGATED BANDWIDTH M V 1 PCELL NR BANDWIDTH M V 1
where message type is:
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no.
* * *
1 0 1 0 1 1 1 0 octet 1
where TOTAL NR AGGREGATED BANDWIDTH is a single octet IE:
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no.
* * *
X8 X7 X6 X5 X4 X3 X2 X1 octet 1
and represents the total NR aggregated bandwidth as per the equation below:
where PCELL NR BANDWIDTH is a single octet IE:
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no.
* * *
X8 X7 X6 X5 X4 X3 X2 X1 octet 1
and represents the PCell NR bandwidth as per the equation below:
### 6.11.2 ACTIVATE POWER LIMIT RESPONSE
This message is only sent in the direction UE to SS.
* * *
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length Protocol discriminator TS
24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip indicator TS 24.007 [5], sub
clause 11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message Type M V 1
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 1 0 1 1 1 1 octet 1
* * *
### 6.11.3 DEACTIVATE POWER LIMIT REQUEST
This message is only sent in the direction SS to UE
* * *
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length Protocol discriminator TS
24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip indicator TS 24.007 [5], sub
clause 11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message Type M V 1
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 octet 1
* * *
### 6.11.4 DEACTIVATE POWER LIMIT RESPONSE
This message is only sent in the direction UE to SS.
* * *
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length Protocol discriminator TS
24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip indicator TS 24.007 [5], sub
clause 11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message Type M V 1
* * *
where message type is:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no. 1 0 1 1 0 0 0 1 octet 1
* * *
## 6.12 UE TEST LOOP MODE C MBMS PACKET COUNTER reporting messages
### 6.12.1 UE TEST LOOP MODE C MBMS PACKET COUNTER REQUEST
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 6.10
### 6.12.2 UE TEST LOOP MODE C MBMS PACKET COUNTER RESPONSE
Same as TS 36.509 [6], subclause 6.11.
## 6.13 SET MUSIM UAI REQUEST
### 6.13.1 SET MUSIM UAI REQUEST
This message is only sent in the direction SS to UE.
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length
* * *
Protocol discriminator TS 24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip
indicator TS 24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1
_musim-PreferredRRC-State_ M V 1 _musim-GapPreferenceList_ CV-_musimGap_ TLV
5*(N^C^+1)+2
Condition Explanation
* * *
CV-_musimGap_ 0 ≤ N^C^ ≤ 3.
where message type is:
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no.
* * *
1 0 1 1 0 0 1 0 octet 1
where _musim-PreferredRRC-State_ is:
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no.
* * *
Reserved E1 E0 octet 3
E1=0 and E0=0; idle.
E1=0 and E0=1; inactive.
E1=1 and E0=0: outOfConnected.
E1=1 and E0=1: Reserved.
where _musim-GapPreferenceList_ is:
+-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 | | +=================================================+===================+ | _musim-GapPreferenceList_ Value type | octet 1 | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | Length of _musim-GapPreferenceList_ Value | octet 2 | | contents in bytes | | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | _musim-GapPreferenceList_ IE #0 | octet 3 | | | | | | octet 4 | | | | | | octet 5 | | | | | | octet 6 | | | | | | octet 7 | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | ... | | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | _musim-GapPreferenceList_ IE #N^C^ | octet 3+5 * N^C^ | | | | | | octet 4+5 * N^C^ | | | | | | octet 5+5 * N^C^ | | | | | | octet 6+5 * N^C^ | | | | | | octet 7+5 * N^C^ | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+
And where _musim-GapPreferenceList_ Value type is:
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no.
* * *
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 octet 1
And where _musim-GapPreferenceList_ IE #n is:
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no.
* * *
A9 A8 A7 A6 A5 A4 A3 A2 octet 1 A1 A0 B3 B2 B1 B0 Reserved octet 2  
C2 C1 C0 D3 D2 D1 D0 Reserved octet 3 E13 E12 E11 E10 E9 E8 E7 E6 octet 4 E5
E4 E3 E2 E1 E0 Reserved octet 5
A9..A0 = 0..1023 Indicates gap starting SFN number for the aperiodic MUSIM gap
preference (binary coded, A9 is most significant bit and A0 least significant
bit).
B3..B0 = 0..9 Indicates gap starting subframe number for the aperiodic MUSIM
gap(binary coded, B3 is most significant bit and B0 least significant bit).
C2..C0 = 0..4 **_Indicates the length of the UE\'s MUSIM gap_** as specified
in TS 38.133 [14] clause 9.1.10. This field is mandatory present for both
periodic gap and aperiodic gap preference indication (binary coded, C2 is most
significant bit and C0 least significant bit).
C2..C0 = 0; ms3.
C2..C0 = 1; ms4.
C2..C0 = 2; ms6.
C2..C0 = 3; ms10.
C2..C0 = 4; ms20.
D3..D0 = 0..8 Indicates the gap repetition period in ms for the periodic MUSIM
gap as specified in TS 38.133 [14] clause 9.1.10 (binary coded, D3 is most
significant bit and D0 least significant bit).
D3..D0 = 0; ms20.
D3..D0 = 1; ms40.
D3..D0 = 2; ms80.
D3..D0 = 3; ms160.
D3..D0 = 4; ms320.
D3..D0 = 5; ms640.
D3..D0 = 6; ms1280.
D3..D0 = 7; ms2560.
D3..D0 = 8; ms5120.
E13..E0= 0.. (gap repetition period-1) Indicates the gap offset in number of
subframes for the periodic MUSIM gap as specified in TS 38.133 [14] clause
9.1.10. This field is mandatory present for the periodic MUSIM gap indication
(binary coded, E13 is most significant bit and E0 least significant bit).
### 6.13.2 SET MUSIM UAI RESPONSE
This message is only sent in the direction UE to SS.
Information Element Reference Presence Format Length
* * *
Protocol discriminator TS 24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.1 M V ½ Skip
indicator TS 24.007 [5], sub clause 11.2.3.1.2 M V ½ Message type M V 1
where message type is:
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 bit no.
* * *
1 0 1 1 0 0 1 1 octet 1
# 7 Variables, constants and timers
## 7.1 State variables
Same as [9] TS 36.509, subclause 7.1 except:
STCH_PACKET_COUNTER(SL_ID)
This 32-bit integer state variable is used to count successful reception of
SDAP SDUs while UE test loop mode E is activated and TEST_LOOP_MODE_E_TRIGGER
is set to RECEIVE. The counter variable is indexed with SL_ID = 0...(
MAX_ModeE_Monitor_Entities). STCH_PACKET_COUNTER(SL_ID) shall be set to zero
when UE is switched on. If configured value of variable
PROSE_COMMUNICATION_MONITOR_N is set to 0 then UE counts all SDAP SDUs as part
of one counter STCH_PACKET_COUNTER(0) irrespective of Group Destination IDs or
Destination Layer-2 IDs.
## 7.2 Constants
Same as [9] TS 36.509, subclause 7.2.
## 7.3 Timers
Same as [9] TS 36.509, subclause 7.3.
## 7.4 Configurable parameters
Same as [9] TS 36.509, subclause 7.4.
# 8 Electrical Man Machine Interface (EMMI)
The EMMI is used for automation of conformance testing. The commands used on
the EMMI by the System Simulator, shall be limited to those specified in TS
38.523-3 [3]. An illustration is given in figure 8-1 as an example.
At the System Simulator side, the logical EMMI using mandatory AT commands
shall interface with the Main Test Component (MTC) of TTCN test cases which
hosts the Upper Tester. The physical EMMI interface towards the UE may be for
example a standard USB interface. Other interfaces of proprietary or
standardized type shall not be precluded.
At the UE side an adapter needs to be provided by the UE manufacturer for
converting the commands into the UE manufacturer specific interface and
format.
The use of EMMI is optional for the UE.
Figure 8-1: An example of EMMI and its use for automation of signalling
testing
###### ## Annex A (normative): Pre-defined message containers used for testing
A.1 Predefined UE Capability container
NOTE: For sake of testability, the below container list does not describe the
true capability of the UE and does not rely on UEs support of EN-DC.
ue-CapabilityRAT-ContainerList
{
{
rat-Type nr,
ue-CapabilityRAT-Container \'
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
},
{
rat-Type eutra-nr,
ue-CapabilityRAT-Container
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
}
}
#