# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for power class 3 NR inter-band CA
and DC for 2 bands DL with up to 2 bands UL under Rel-17 time frame. The
purpose is to gather the relevant background information and studies in order
to address NR inter-band CA and DC for 2 bands DL with up to 2 bands UL for
the Rel-17 band combinations.
This TR contains a general part and band specific combination part. The actual
requirements are added to the corresponding technical specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.101-3: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking operation with other
radios\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Aggregated Channel Bandwidth:** The RF bandwidth in which a UE transmits and
receives multiple contiguously aggregated carriers.
**Carrier aggregation: Aggregation of two or more component carriers in order
to support wider transmission bandwidths.**
**Inter-band carrier aggregation: Carrier aggregation of component carriers in
different operating bands**.
NOTE: Carriers aggregated in each band can be contiguous or non-contiguous.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
ΔR~IB,c~ Allowed reference sensitivity relaxation due to support for inter-
band CA operation, for serving cell _c_.
ΔT~IB,c~ Allowed maximum configured output power relaxation due to support for
inter-band CA
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
BS Base Station
CA Carrier Aggregation
DC Dual Connectivity
DL DownLink
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
IMD Inter-modulation
MSD Maximum Sensitivity Deduction
SCS Subcarrier spacing
TDD Time Division Duplex
UE User Equipment
UL UpLink
# 4 Background
The present document is a technical report for NR inter-band CA and DC for 2
bands DL with up to 2 bands UL under Rel-17 time frame. It covers both the UE
and BS side. The document is divided in two different parts:
\- General part: this part covers BS and UE specific which is band combination
independent.
\- Specific band combination part: this part covers each band combination and
its specific issues independently from each other (i.e. one subclause is
defined per band combination)
## 4.1 TR Maintenance
A single company is responsible for introducing all approved TPs in the
current TR, i.e. TR editor. However, it is the responsibility of the contact
person of each band combination to ensure that the TPs related to the band
combination have been implemented.
# 5 NR Inter-Band Combination: General Part
The general issue for NR inter-band combination including:
1: common issues for both 1 band UL and 2 bands UL NR CA, including the impact
of UL/DL harmonic/ harmonic mixing associated with REFSEN, delta Tib and delta
Rib, and OOB blocking exception, etc.
2: 2 bands UL NR CA specific issues, including MSD caused by IMD issue, etc.
3: No new issue for inter-band NR DC combination, the 2 bands UL NR CA
specific issues shall be re-used.
# 6 Both bands within FR1 Carrier Aggregation: Specific Band Combination Part
## 6.1 CA_n5-n25
### 6.1.1 Common for 1 band UL and 2 bands UL CA
#### 6.1.1.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.1.1-1: CA band combination of band n5 + n25
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **NR |** NR | **U |** Dow | **Dup | | | | | | CA | B | plink | nlink | lex** | | | | | | Band | and**| (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | Com | | b | b |** m | | | | | | binat | | and**| and** | ode**| | | | | | ion** | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+====+=======+=====+ | | | **BS |** BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | trans | rece | | | | | | | | | mit**| ive** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | ** | ** | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F~U | F~D | | | | | | | | | L_hi | L_hi | | | | | | | | | gh~**| gh~** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **CA | n5 | 824 | -- | 849 | 869 | -- | 894 | FDD | | _n5- | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | | n25** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | n25 | 1850 | -- | 1915 | 1930 | -- | 1995 | FDD | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
#### 6.1.1.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 8.x.2-1: Supported bandwidths per CA band combination of band n2+n78
**NR CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set [MHz]** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**NR CA configuration** | **UL configuration** | **NR Band** | **SCS** **(kHz)** | **5** | **10** | **15** | **20** | **25** | **30** | **40** | **50** | **60** | **70** | **80** | **90** | **100** | **Bandwidth combination set**  
CA_n5A-n25A | CA_n5A-n25A | n5 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n25 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n5A-n25(2A) | CA_n5A-n25A | n5 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n25 | See CA_n25(2A) Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table 5.5A.2-1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
#### 6.1.1.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.1.1.3-1/2 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics and/or harmonics
mixing occur for CA_n5-n25.
**Table** **6.1.1.3-1: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic**
** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** **2nd Harmonic** **3rd Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL
High Band Edge** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL Low Band
Edge** **UL High Band Edge** n5 824 849 869 894 1648 1698 2472 2547 n25 1850
1915 1930 1995 3700 3830 5550 5745
Based on above table, there is no harmonic issue for CA_n5-n25.
**Table 6.1.1.3-2: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic mixing**
** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** **2nd Harmonic** **3rd Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL
High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band
Edge** **DL High Band Edge** n5 824 849 869 894 1738 1788 2607 2682 n25 1850
1915 1930 1995 3860 3990 5790 5985
Based on above table, there is no harmonics mixing issue for CA_n5-n25.
#### 6.1.1.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n5-n25, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB~ values are given in the tables below.
Table 6.1.1.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
**CA_n5-n25** **n5** 0.3 **n25** 0.3
Table 6.1.1.4-2: ΔR~IB~
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB~ [dB]
* * *
**CA_n5-n25** **n5** 0 **n25** 0
#### 6.1.1.5 REFSENs requirements
There is no harmonic issue for the CA combination.
#### 6.1.1.6 OOB blocking exception requirements
There is no OOB exception for the CA combination.
### 6.1.2 Specific for 2 bands UL CA
#### 6.1.2.1 Maximum output power for inter-band CA
**Table 6.1.2.1-1: UE Power Class for uplink inter-band CA**
Uplink CA Configuration Class 3 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
CA_n5A-n25A 23 +2/-3^2^ NOTE 2: 2 refers to the transmission bandwidths
confined within F~UL_low~ and F~UL_low~ + 4 MHz or F~UL_high~ -- 4 MHz and
F~UL_high~, the maximum output power requirement is relaxed by reducing the
lower tolerance limit by 1.5 dB
#### 6.1.2.2 UE co-existence
Table 6.1.2.2-1 gives IMD interference analysis for CA_ n5-n25 with 2 ULs.
**Table 6.1.2.2-1: Harmonic and IMD analysis**
**UE UL carriers** **fx_low** **fx_high** **fy_low** **fy_high**
* * *
UL frequency (MHz) 824 849 1850 1915 Two tone 2^nd^ order IMD products fy_low
-- fx_high fy_high -- fx_low fx_low + fy_low fx_high + fy_high IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 1001 1091 2674 2764 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low
-- fy_high\| \|2*fx_high -- fy_low\| 2*fy_low -- fx_high 2*fy_high -- fx_low
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 267 152 2851 3006 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products
2*fx_low + fy_low 2*fx_high + fy_high 2*fy_low + fx_low 2*fy_high + fx_high
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 3498 3613 4524 4679 Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD
products \|3*fx_low -- fy_high\| \|3*fx_high -- fy_low\| 3*fy_low -- fx_high
3*fy_high -- fx_low IMD frequency limits (MHz) 557 697 4701 4921 Two-tone
4^th^ order IMD products 3*fx_low + fy_low 3*fx_high + fy_high 3*fy_low +
fx_low 3*fy_high + fx_high IMD frequency limits (MHz) 4322 4462 6374 6569 Two-
tone 4^th^ order IMD products 2*fy_low -- 2*fx_high 2*fy_high -- 2*fx_low
2*fx_low + 2*fy_low 2*fx_high + 2*fy_high IMD frequency limits (MHz) 2002 2182
5348 5528 Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|4*fx_low -- fy_high\|
\|4*fx_high -- fy_low\| 4*fy_low -- fx_high 4*fy_high -- fx_low IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 1381 1546 6551 6836 Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products 4*fx_low +
fy_low 4*fx_high + fy_high 4*fy_low + fx_low 4*fy_high + fx_high IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 5146 5311 8224 8509 Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|3*fx_low
-- 2*fy_high\| \|3*fx_high -- 2*fy_low\| 3*fy_low -- 2*fx_high 3*fy_high --
2*fx_low IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1358 1153 3852 4097 Two-tone 5^th^ order
IMD products 2*fx_low + 3*fy_low 2*fx_high + 3*fy_high 2*fy_low + 3*fx_low
2*fy_high + 3*fx_high IMD frequency limits (MHz) 7198 7443 6172 6377
Based on the table 6.x.2.2-1, there is no IMD issue for CA_n5-n25.
Table 6.1.2.2-2 lists the protected bands required for the 2UL bands CA
configuration.
**Table 6.1.2.2-2: Protected bands for the 2UL bands CA configuration**
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | **NR |** Sp | | | | | | | | CA | urious | | | | | | | | Con | emis | | | | | | | | figura | sion**| | | | | | | | tion** | | | | | | | | +========+========+========+========+========+========+===+===+ | | **Pro |** Fre | **M |** MBW | ** | | | | | tected | quency | aximum | ( | NOTE**| | | | | band** | range | Level | MHz)**| | | | | | | ( | ( | | | | | | | | MHz)** | dBm)** | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | CA_ | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | | | n5-n25 | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 4, 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 48, | | | | | | | | | 53, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70, | | | | | | | | | 71, 85 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 41, 43 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | 4 | | | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 2, 25 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: As | | | | | | | | | excep | | | | | | | | | tions, | | | | | | | | | measur | | | | | | | | | ements | | | | | | | | | with a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appl | | | | | | | | | icable | | | | | | | | | requir | | | | | | | | | ements | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | efined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.6 | | | | | | | | | .3.1-2 | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | mitted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | signed | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | arrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | | measu | | | | | | | | | rement | | | | | | | | | due to | | | | | | | | | 2^nd^, | | | | | | | | | 3^rd^, | | | | | | | | | 4^th^ | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | 5^th^ | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmonic | | | | | | | | | sp | | | | | | | | | urious | | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | | sions. | | | | | | | | | Due to | | | | | | | | | spr | | | | | | | | | eading | | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmonic | | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | | ission | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | exc | | | | | | | | | eption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | llowed | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | | | 1 MHz | | | | | | | | | fre | | | | | | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | immed | | | | | | | | | iately | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | utside | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmonic | | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | | ission | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | | sides | | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmonic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion. | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | esults | | | | | | | | | in an | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | verall | | | | | | | | | exc | | | | | | | | | eption | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | terval | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entred | | | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmonic | | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | | ission | | | | | | | | | of (2 | | | | | | | | | MHz + | | | | | | | | | N x | | | | | | | | | L~CRB~ | | | | | | | | | x 180 | | | | | | | | | kHz), | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | N is | | | | | | | | | 2, 3, | | | | | | | | | 4, 5 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 2^nd^, | | | | | | | | | 3^rd^, | | | | | | | | | 4^th^ | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | 5^th^ | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmonic | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | espect | | | | | | | | | ively. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | exc | | | | | | | | | eption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | llowed | | | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | | | measu | | | | | | | | | rement | | | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | | | dwidth | | | | | | | | | (MBW) | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | otally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | par | | | | | | | | | tially | | | | | | | | | ov | | | | | | | | | erlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | verall | | | | | | | | | exc | | | | | | | | | eption | | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | | erval. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | | | requir | | | | | | | | | ements | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | fre | | | | | | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | ranges | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | F~OOB~ | | | | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.1 | | | | | | | | | .3.1-1 | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | hannel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width. | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+
#### 6.1.2.3 REFSENS requirements
There is no MSD issue for the CA combination.
## 6.2 **CA_n71-n78**
### 6.2.1 Common for 1 band UL and 2 bands UL CA
#### 6.2.1.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.2.1-1: CA band combination of band n38 + n66
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **NR |** NR | **U |** Dow | **Dup | | | | | | CA | B | plink | nlink | lex** | | | | | | Band | and**| (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | Com | | b | b |** m | | | | | | binat | | and**| and** | ode**| | | | | | ion** | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+====+=======+=====+ | | | **BS |** BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | trans | rece | | | | | | | | | mit**| ive** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | ** | ** | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F~U | F~D | | | | | | | | | L_hi | L_hi | | | | | | | | | gh~**| gh~** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **CA\ | n71 | 663 | -- | 698 | 617 | -- | 652 | FDD | | _n71- | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | | n78** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | n78 | 3300 | -- | 3800 | 3300 | -- | 3800 | TDD | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
#### 6.2.1.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 8.x.2-1: Supported bandwidths per CA band combination of band n2+n78
**NR CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set [MHz]** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**NR CA configuration** | **UL configuration** | **NR Band** | **SCS** **(kHz)** | **5** | **10** | **15** | **20** | **25** | **30** | **40** | **50** | **60** | **70** | **80** | **90** | **100** | **Bandwidth combination set**  
CA_n71A-n78A | CA_n71A-n78A | n71 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n78 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
CA_n71A-n78(2A) | CA_n71A-n78A | n71 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n78 | See CA_n78(2A) Bandwidth Combination Set 2 in Table 5.5A.2-1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
#### 6.2.1.3 Co-existence studies
DC_71A_n78A is defined in Rel-16. Co-existence studies for DC_71A_n78A can be
reused for **CA_n71-n78.**
#### 6.2.1.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n71-n78, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB~ values are given in the tables below.
Table 6.2.1.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
**CA_n71-n78** **n71** 0.5 **n78** 0.8
Table 6.2.1.4-2: ΔR~IB~
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB~ [dB]
* * *
**CA_n71-n78** **n71** 0.2 **n78** 0.5
#### 6.2.1.5 REFSENs requirements
There is no harmonic issue for the CA combination.
#### 6.2.1.6 OOB blocking exception requirements
Table 6.2.1.6-1: CA band combination with exceptions allowed
CA band combination
* * *
**CA_n71-n78**
### 6.2.2 Specific for 2 bands UL CA
#### 6.2.2.1 Maximum output power for inter-band CA
**Table 6.2.2.1-1: UE Power Class for uplink inter-band CA**
Uplink CA Configuration Class 3 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
CA_n71A-n78A 23 +2/-3^2^ NOTE 2: 2 refers to the transmission bandwidths
confined within F~UL_low~ and F~UL_low~ + 4 MHz or F~UL_high~ -- 4 MHz and
F~UL_high~, the maximum output power requirement is relaxed by reducing the
lower tolerance limit by 1.5 dB
#### 6.2.2.2 UE co-existence
Table 6.2.2.2-2 lists the protected bands required for the 2UL bands CA
configuration.
**Table 6.2.2.2-2: Protected bands for the 2UL bands CA configuration**
**NR CA Configuration** **Spurious emission**
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      **Protected band**      **Frequency range (MHz)**   **Maximum Level (dBm)**   **MBW (MHz)**   **NOTE**
CA_n71-n78 E-UTRA Band 5, 26 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1  
E-UTRA Band 41 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1 2 NOTE 2: As exceptions,
measurements with a level up to the applicable requirements defined in Table
6.2.3.1-2 are permitted for each assigned E-UTRA carrier used in the
measurement due to 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 4^th^ or 5^th^ harmonic spurious emissions.
Due to spreading of the harmonic emission the exception is also allowed for
the first 1 MHz frequency range immediately outside the harmonic emission on
both sides of the harmonic emission. This results in an overall exception
interval centred at the harmonic emission of (2 MHz + N x L~CRB~ x 180 kHz),
where N is 2, 3, 4, 5 for the 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 4^th^ or 5^th^ harmonic
respectively. The exception is allowed if the measurement bandwidth (MBW)
totally or partially overlaps the overall exception interval.
#### 6.2.2.3 REFSENS requirements
DC_71A_n78A is defined in existing Rel-16 TS 38.101-3. Two-tone 5^th^ order
IMD products may fall into the own Rx Band of Band n71. The MSD value can be
reused from DC_71A_n78A.
Table 6.2.2.3: 2DL/2UL interband Reference sensitivity QPSK P~REFSENS~ and
uplink/downlink configurations
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+ | Band | S | | | | | | | | | / | ource | | | | | | | | | Ch | of | | | | | | | | | annel | IMD | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | | uplex | | | | | | | | | | mode | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+======+=======+======+ | NR CA | NR | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | D | | | | band | F~c~\ | BW\ | C | F~c~ | (dB) | uplex | | | Con | | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~LRB~ | (MHz) | | mode | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+ | CA\ | n71 | 681.5 | 5 | 25 | 635.5 | 5.5 | FDD | IMD5 | | _n71A | | | | | | | | | | -n78A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | | | A_n7 | | | | | | | | | | 1A-n7 | | | | | | | | | | 8(2A) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+ | | n78 | 3 | 10 | 50 | 3 | N/A | TDD | N/A | | | | 361.5 | | | 582.5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+
## 6.3 CA_n7-n66
### 6.3.1 Common for 1 band UL and 2 bands UL CA
#### 6.3.1.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.3.1.1-1: CA band combination of band n7+n66
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | NR | U | Dow | D | | | | | | Band | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | | (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | | band | band | mode | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+====+=======+=====+ | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | tra | re | | | | | | | | nsmit | ceive | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n7 | 2500 | -- | 2570 | 2620 | -- | 2690 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n66 | 1710 | -- | 1780 | 2110 | -- | 2200 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
#### 6.3.1.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.3.1.2-1: Supported bandwidths per CA band combination of band n7+n66
**CA operating / channel bandwidth [MHz]**
* * *
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Configuration** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5**
**10** **15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set** CA_n7A-n66A CA_n7A-n66A n7 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes
Yes Yes Yes 1 30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n66 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
CA_n7A-n66(2A) CA_n7A-n66A n7 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes
Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n66 See CA_n66(2A) Bandwidth Combination Set 1 in Table 5.5A.2-1  
CA_n7(2A)-n66 CA_n7A-n66A n7 See CA_n7(2A) Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in
Table 5.5A.2-1 0  
n66 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
CA_n7(2A)-n66(2A) CA_n7A-n66A n7 See CA_n7(2A) Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in
Table 5.5A.2-1 0  
n66 See CA_n66(2A) Bandwidth Combination Set 1 in Table 5.5A.2-1
#### 6.3.1.3 UE co-existence studies
Table 6.3.1.3-1/2 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics and/or harmonics
mixing occur for CA_n7-n66.
**Table 6.3.1.3-1: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic**
                                                                                                   **2nd Harmonic**   **3rd Harmonic**    **nth Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge **DL Low Band Edge** DL High
Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n7 2500 2570 2620 2690 5000 5140 7500
7710  
n66 1710 1780 2110 2200 3420 3560 5130 5340
**Table 6.3.1.3-2: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic mixing**
                                                                                               **2nd Harmonic**   **3rd Harmonic**    **mth Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n7 2500 2570 2620 2690 5240 5380 7860 8070  
n66 1710 1780 2110 2200 4220 4400 6330 6660
Based on above table, there is no harmonic issue for the band combination of
n7 and n66.
Based on above table, there is no harmonic mixing issue for the band
combination of n7 and n66.
#### 6.3.1.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n7-n66 , the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are given in the tables
below.
Table 6.3.1.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
CA_n7-n66 n7 0.5 n66 0.5
Table 6.3.1.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
CA_n7-n66 n7 0.5 n66 0.5
#### 6.3.1.5 REFSENS requirements
There are no specific REFSENS requirements for 1 band UL.
#### 6.3.1.6 OOB blocking exception requirements
There is no OOB blocking exception for this CA band combination.
### 6.3.2 Specific for 2 bands UL CA
#### 6.3.2.1 Maximum output power for inter-band CA
Table 6.3.2.2-1: UE Power Class for uplink inter-band CA
Uplink CA Configuration Class 3 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
CA_n7A-n66A 23 +2/-3^2^ NOTE 2: 2 refers to the transmission bandwidths
confined within F~UL_low~ and F~UL_low~ + 4 MHz or F~UL_high~ -- 4 MHz and
F~UL_high~, the maximum output power requirement is relaxed by reducing the
lower tolerance limit by 1.5 dB
#### 6.3.2.2 UE co-existence studies
Table 6.3.2.1-1 lists Band n7 +Band n66 2UL bands CA 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 4^th^ and
5^th^ order IMD for the UE-to-UE coexistence analysis.
Table 6.3.2.2-1: Band n7 and Band n66 UL IMD products
UE UL carriers f1_low f1_high f2_low f2_high
* * *
UL frequencies (MHz) 1710 1780 2500 2570 2nd order IMD products f2_low --
f1_high f2_high -- f1_low f2_low + f1_low f2_high + f1_high IMD frequency
limit (MHz) 720 860 4210 4350 3rd order IMD products 2*f1_low -- f2_high
2*f1_high -- f2_low 2*f2_low -- f1_high 2*f2_high -- f1_low IMD frequency
limit (MHz) 850 1060 3220 3430 3rd order IMD products 2*f1_low + f2_low
2*f1_high + f2_high 2*f2_low + f1_low 2*f2_high + f1_high IMD frequency limit
(MHz) 5920 6130 6710 6920 4th order IMD products 3*f1_low -- f2_high 3*f1_high
-- f2_low 3*f2_low -- f1_high 3*f2_high -- f1_low IMD frequency limit (MHz)
2560 2840 5720 6000 4th order IMD products 3*f1_low + f2_low 3*f1_high +
f2_high 3*f2_low + f1_low 3*f2_high + f1_high IMD frequency limit (MHz) 7630
7910 9210 9490 4th order IMD products 2*f1_low -- 2*f2_high 2*f1_high --
2*f2_low 2*f1_low + 2*f2_low 2*f1_high + 2*f2_high IMD frequency limit (MHz)
-1720 -1440 8420 8700 5th order IMD products f1_low -- 4*f2_high f1_high --
4*f2_low f2_low -- 4*f1_high f2_high -- 4*f1_low IMD frequency limit (MHz)
-8570 -8220 -4620 -4270 5th order IMD products f1_low + 4*f2_low f1_high +
4*f2_high f2_low + 4*f1_low f2_high + 4*f1_high IMD frequency limit (MHz)
11710 12060 9340 9690 5th order IMD products 2*f1_low -- 3*f2_high 2*f1_high -
3*f2_low 2*f2_low -- 3*f1_high 2*f2_high -- 3*f1_low IMD frequency limit (MHz)
-4290 -3940 -340 10 5th order IMD products 2*f1_low + 3*f2_low 2*f1_high +
3*f2_high 2*f2_low + 3*f1_low 2*f2_high + 3*f1_high IMD frequency limit (MHz)
10920 11270 10130 10480
Based on the table above, the 4^th^ order IMD may fall into Rx frequencies of
band n7.
Table 6.3.2.2-2 lists the protected bands required for the 2UL bands CA
configuration.
Table 6.3.2.2-2: Protected bands for the 2UL bands CA configuration
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | **UL |** Spu | | | | | | | | NR CA | rious | | | | | | | | Confi | emiss | | | | | | | | gurat | ion**| | | | | | | | ion** | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+===+=======+ | | * | * | **Ma |** MBW | **N | | | | |_Prot |_ Freq | ximum | (M | OTE** | | | | | ected | uency | Level | Hz)**| | | | | | b | range | (d | | | | | | | and** | (M | Bm)**| | | | | | | | Hz)** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | CA_n | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | 7-n66 | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 50, | | | | | | | | | 51, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 74, | | | | | | | | | 85 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 48 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | n77, | | | | | | | | | n78 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 2570 | - | 2575 | +1.6 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 2575 | - | 2595 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2620 | -40 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.5. | | | | | | | | | 3.1-2 | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 2nd, | | | | | | | | | 3rd, | | | | | | | | | 4th | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | 5th | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | Due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | spre | | | | | | | | | ading | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | | | 1 MHz | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | mmedi | | | | | | | | | ately | | | | | | | | | ou | | | | | | | | | tside | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | | sides | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | | sion. | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | sults | | | | | | | | | in an | | | | | | | | | ov | | | | | | | | | erall | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | | erval | | | | | | | | | ce | | | | | | | | | ntred | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | of (2 | | | | | | | | | MHz + | | | | | | | | | N x | | | | | | | | | LCRB | | | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | Bsize | | | | | | | | | kHz), | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | N is | | | | | | | | | 2, 3, | | | | | | | | | 4, 5 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 2nd, | | | | | | | | | 3rd, | | | | | | | | | 4th | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | 5th | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | pecti | | | | | | | | | vely. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (MBW) | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ov | | | | | | | | | erall | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | | rval. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 15: | | | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | anges | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | FOOB | | | | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.5. | | | | | | | | | 3.1-1 | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idth. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 21: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | any | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2500 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2570 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | stric | | | | | | | | | tion: | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 560.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 562.5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2552 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2560 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to 54 | | | | | | | | | RB. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 26: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | adj | | | | | | | | | acent | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | ands, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | could | | | | | | | | | imply | | | | | | | | | risk | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmful | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | terfe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | UE(s) | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+
#### 6.3.2.3 REFSENS requirements
Table 6.3.2.3-1 lists the MSD required due to the 4^th^ IMD for the dual
uplink configuration The MSD value is reused from E-UTRA CA_4-7.
Table 6.3.2.3-1: MSD due to IMD issue
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+ | Oper | S | | | | | | | | | ating | ource | | | | | | | | | band | of | | | | | | | | | / | IMD | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | | uplex | | | | | | | | | | mode | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+======+=======+======+ | CA | Oper | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | D | | | | ating | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | (dB) | uplex | | | Con | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | | mode | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+ | CA | n7 | 2535 | 5 | 25 | 2655 | 15 | FDD | IMD4 | | _n7A | | | | | | | | | | -n66A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+ | | n66 | 1730 | 5 | 25 | 2130 | N/A | TDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+
## 6.4 CA_n25-38
### 6.4.1 Common for 1 band UL and 2 bands UL CA
#### 6.4.1.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
**Table 6.4.1.1-1: CA band combination of band n25+n38**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **NR |** U | **Dow |** Dup | | | | | | B | plink | nlink | lex**| | | | | | and** | (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | | b | b | **m | | | | | | | and** | and**| ode** | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+====+=======+=====+ | | **BS |** BS | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | trans | rece | | | | | | | | mit**| ive** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | ** | ** | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | F~U | F~D | | | | | | | | L_hi | L_hi | | | | | | | | gh~**| gh~** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n25 | 1850 | -- | 1915 | 1930 | -- | 1995 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n38 | 2570 | -- | 2620 | 2570 | -- | 2620 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
#### 6.4.1.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
**Table 6.4.1.2-1: Supported bandwidths per CA band combination of band
n25+n38**
**CA operating / channel bandwidth [MHz]**
* * *
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Configuration** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5**
**10** **15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set** CA_n25A-n38A CA_n25A-n38A n25 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes
Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n38 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
CA_n25(2A)-n38A CA_n25A-n38A n25 See CA_n25(2A) Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in
Table 5.5A.2-1 0  
n38 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
#### 6.4.1.3 UE co-existence studies
Table 6.4.1.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur for
CA_n25-n38.
**Table 6.4.1.3-1: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic**
                                                                                               **2nd Harmonic**   **3rd Harmonic**    **nth Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n25 1850 1915 1930 1995 3700 3830 5550 5745  
n38 2570 2620 2570 2620 5140 5240 7710 7860
Based on above table, there is no harmonic issue for the band combination of
n25 and n38.
Table 6.4.1.3-2 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics mixing occur for
CA_n25-n38.
**Table 6.4.1.3-2: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic mixing**
                                                                                               **2nd Harmonic**   **3rd Harmonic**    **mth Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n25 1850 1915 1930 1995 3700 3830 5550 5745  
n38 2570 2620 2570 2620 5140 5240 7710 7860
Based on above table, there is no harmonic mixing issue for the band
combination of n25 and n38.
#### 6.4.1.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n25-n38 , the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are given according to the
general framework for the high-high band combination.
**Table 6.4.1.4-1:** **ΔT~IB,c~**
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
CA_n25-n38 n25 0.5 n38 0.5
**Table 6.4.1.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
CA_n25-n38 n25 0 n38 0
#### 6.4.1.5 REFSENS requirements
Since the UE RF architecture for CA_n25-n38 is similar to CA_n25-n41, MSD due
to cross band isolation defined for CA_n25-n41 is assumed.
Table 6.4.2.3-1: Reference sensitivity exceptions (MSD) due to cross band
isolation for NR CA FR1
NR Band / Channel bandwidth of the affected DL band |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
UL band | DL band | 5  
MHz (dB) | 10  
MHz (dB) | 15  
MHz (dB) | 20  
MHz (dB) | 25  
MHz (dB) | 30 MHz (dB) | 40 MHz (dB) | 50 MHz (dB) | 60 MHz (dB) | 70 MHz (dB) | 80 MHz (dB) | 90 MHz (dB) | 100 MHz (dB)  
n38 | n25 | 0.6 | 0.6 | 0.6 | 0.6 | 0.6 | 0.6 | 0.6 |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 6.4.2.3-2: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity exceptions due
to cross band isolation for NR CA FR1
NR Band / SCS / Channel bandwidth of the affected DL band |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
UL band | DL band | SCS of UL band (kHz) | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 25 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz | 50 MHz | 60 MHz | 70 MHz | 80 MHz | 90 MHz | 100 MHz  
n38 | n25 | 15 | 160 | 160 | 160 | 160 | 160 | 160 | 160 |  |  |  |  |  |   
#### 6.4.1.6 OOB blocking exception requirements
There is no OOB blocking exception for this CA band combination.
### 6.4.2 Specific for 2 bands UL CA
#### 6.4.2.1 Maximum output power for inter-band CA
**Table 6.4.2.2-1: UE Power Class for uplink inter-band CA**
Uplink CA Configuration Class 3 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
CA_25A-n38A 23 +2/-3^2^ NOTE 2: 2 refers to the transmission bandwidths
confined within F~UL_low~ and F~UL_low~ + 4 MHz or F~UL_high~ -- 4 MHz and
F~UL_high~, the maximum output power requirement is relaxed by reducing the
lower tolerance limit by 1.5 dB
#### 6.4.2.2 UE co-existence studies
Table 6.4.2.2-1 lists Band n25 +Band n38 2UL bands CA 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 4^th^ and
5^th^ order IMD for the UE-to-UE coexistence analysis.
Table 6.4.2.2-1: Band n25 and Band n38 UL harmonics and IMD products
UE UL carriers f1_low f1_high f2_low f2_high
* * *
UL frequencies (MHz) 1850 1915 2570 2620 2nd order IMD products f2_low --
f1_high f2_high -- f1_low f2_low + f1_low f2_high + f1_high IMD frequency
limit (MHz) 655 770 4420 4535 3rd order IMD products 2*f1_low -- f2_high
2*f1_high -- f2_low 2*f2_low -- f1_high 2*f2_high -- f1_low IMD frequency
limit (MHz) 1080 1260 3225 3390 3rd order IMD products 2*f1_low + f2_low
2*f1_high + f2_high 2*f2_low + f1_low 2*f2_high + f1_high IMD frequency limit
(MHz) 6270 6450 6990 7155 4th order IMD products 3*f1_low -- f2_high 3*f1_high
-- f2_low 3*f2_low -- f1_high 3*f2_high -- f1_low IMD frequency limit (MHz)
2930 3175 5795 6010 4th order IMD products 3*f1_low + f2_low 3*f1_high +
f2_high 3*f2_low + f1_low 3*f2_high + f1_high IMD frequency limit (MHz) 8120
8365 9560 9775 4th order IMD products 2*f1_low -- 2*f2_high 2*f1_high --
2*f2_low 2*f1_low + 2*f2_low 2*f1_high + 2*f2_high IMD frequency limit (MHz)
-1540 -1310 8840 9070 5th order IMD products f1_low -- 4*f2_high f1_high --
4*f2_low f2_low -- 4*f1_high f2_high -- 4*f1_low IMD frequency limit (MHz)
-8630 -8365 -5090 -4780 5th order IMD products f1_low + 4*f2_low f1_high +
4*f2_high f2_low + 4*f1_low f2_high + 4*f1_high IMD frequency limit (MHz)
12130 12395 9970 10280 5th order IMD products 2*f1_low -- 3*f2_high 2*f1_high
- 3*f2_low 2*f2_low -- 3*f1_high 2*f2_high -- 3*f1_low IMD frequency limit
(MHz) -4160 -3880 -605 -310 5th order IMD products 2*f1_low + 3*f2_low
2*f1_high + 3*f2_high 2*f2_low + 3*f1_low 2*f2_high + 3*f1_high IMD frequency
limit (MHz) 11410 11690 10690 10985
Based on the table above, no IMD issue is identified for this band
combination.
Table 6.4.2.2-2 lists the protected bands required for the 2UL bands CA
configuration.
Table 6.4.2.2-2: Protected bands for the 2UL bands CA configuration
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | **UL |** Spu | | | | | | | | NR CA | rious | | | | | | | | Confi | emiss | | | | | | | | gurat | ion**| | | | | | | | ion** | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+===+=======+ | | * | * | **Ma |** MBW | **N | | | | |_Prot |_ Freq | ximum | (M | OTE** | | | | | ected | uency | Level | Hz)**| | | | | | b | range | (d | | | | | | | and** | (M | Bm)**| | | | | | | | Hz)** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | C | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | A_n2 | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | 5-n38 | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 48, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 71, | | | | | | | | | 85 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 25 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 48 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | n77, | | | | | | | | | n78 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 2620 | - | 2645 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 2645 | - | 2690 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.5. | | | | | | | | | 3.1-2 | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 2nd, | | | | | | | | | 3rd, | | | | | | | | | 4th | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | 5th | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | Due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | spre | | | | | | | | | ading | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | | | 1 MHz | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | mmedi | | | | | | | | | ately | | | | | | | | | ou | | | | | | | | | tside | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | | sides | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | | sion. | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | sults | | | | | | | | | in an | | | | | | | | | ov | | | | | | | | | erall | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | | erval | | | | | | | | | ce | | | | | | | | | ntred | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | of (2 | | | | | | | | | MHz + | | | | | | | | | N x | | | | | | | | | LCRB | | | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | Bsize | | | | | | | | | kHz), | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | N is | | | | | | | | | 2, 3, | | | | | | | | | 4, 5 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 2nd, | | | | | | | | | 3rd, | | | | | | | | | 4th | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | 5th | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | pecti | | | | | | | | | vely. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (MBW) | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ov | | | | | | | | | erall | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | | rval. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 15: | | | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | anges | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | FOOB | | | | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.5. | | | | | | | | | 3.1-1 | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idth. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 21: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | any | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2500 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2570 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | stric | | | | | | | | | tion: | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 560.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 562.5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2552 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2560 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to 54 | | | | | | | | | RB. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 26: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | adj | | | | | | | | | acent | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | ands, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | could | | | | | | | | | imply | | | | | | | | | risk | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmful | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | terfe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | UE(s) | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+
#### 6.4.2.3 REFSENS requirements
There is no specific REFSENS requirement for 2 band UL.
## 6.5 CA_n1-n77
### 6.5.1 Common for 1 band UL and 2 bands UL CA
#### 6.5.1.1 Operating bands for CA
**Table 6.5.1.1-1: CA band combination of band n1+n77**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **NR |** U | **Dow |** Dup | | | | | | B | plink | nlink | lex**| | | | | | and** | (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | | b | b | **m | | | | | | | and** | and**| ode** | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+====+=======+=====+ | | **BS |** BS | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | trans | rece | | | | | | | | mit**| ive** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | ** | ** | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | F~U | F~D | | | | | | | | L_hi | L_hi | | | | | | | | gh~**| gh~** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n1 | 1920 | -- | 1980 | 2110 | -- | 2170 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n77 | 3300 | -- | 4200 | 3300 | -- | 4200 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
#### 6.5.1.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
**Table 6.5.1.2-1: Supported bandwidths per CA band combination of band
n1+n77**
NR CA configuration | Uplink CA configuration | NR Band | SCS (kHz) | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 25 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz | 50 MHz | 60 MHz | 70 MHz | 80 MHz | 90 MHz | 100 MHz | Bandwidth combination set  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA_n1A-n77A | CA_n1A-n77A | n1 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n77 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
####
#### 6.5.1.3 UE co-existence studies
This section is skipped since CA_n1-n77 without 2UL CA has been already
specified in TS 38.101-1, and impact of harmonic issue has been studied in TR
38.716-02-00.
#### 6.5.1.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n1-n77 , the ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~ values are given in the tables
below. The same values are shown as what are specified in TS 38.101-1.
**Table 6.5.1.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
CA_n1-n77 n1 0.6 n77 0.8
**Table 6.5.1.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
CA_n1-n77 n1 0.2 n77 0.5
#### 6.5.1.5 REFSENS requirements
This section is skipped since CA_n1-n77 without 2UL CA has been already
specified in TS 38.101-1, and impact of harmonic issue has been studied in TR
38.716-02-00.
#### 6.5.1.6 OOB blocking exception requirements
This section is skipped since CA_n1-n77 without 2UL CA has been already
specified.
### 6.5.2 Specific for 2 bands UL CA
#### 6.5.2.1 Maximum output power for inter-band CA
**Table 6.5.2.1-1: UE Power Class for uplink inter-band CA**
Uplink CA Configuration Class 3 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
CA_n1A-n77A 23 +2/-3^2^ NOTE 2: 2 refers to the transmission bandwidths
confined within F~UL_low~ and F~UL_low~ + 4 MHz or F~UL_high~ -- 4 MHz and
F~UL_high~, the maximum output power requirement is relaxed by reducing the
lower tolerance limit by 1.5 dB
#### 6.5.2.2 UE co-existence studies
Table 6.5.2.2-1 lists Band n1 +Band n77 2UL bands CA 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 4^th^ and
5^th^ order IMD for the UE-to-UE coexistence analysis.
**Table 6.5.2.2-1: Band n1 and Band n77 UL IMD products**
UE UL carriers fx_low fx_high fy_low fy_high
* * *
2^nd^ order IMD products \|fy_low -- fx_high\| \|fy_high -- fx_low\| \|fy_low
+ fx_low\| \|fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1320 -- 2280 5220
-- 6180  
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- fy_high\| \|2*fx_high --
fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -- fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 360 -- 660 4620 -- 6480  
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low + fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +
fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 1920 -- 1980 3300 -- 4200  
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products (fx_low -- max BW fy) (fx_high + max BW fy)
(fy_low -- max BW fx) (fy_high + max BW fx) IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1820 --
2080 3280 -- 4220  
Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products \|3*fx_low --1* fy_high\| \|3*fx_high --
1*fy_low\| \|3*fy_low -- 1*fx_high\| \|3*fy_high -- 1*fx_low\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 1560 -- 2640 7920 -- 10680  
Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low --2* fy_high\| \|2*fx_high --2*
fy_low\|  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 2640 -- 4560  
Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products \|3*fx_low +1* fy_low\| \|3*fx_high +
1*fy_high\| \|3*fy_low + 1*fx_low\| \|3*fy_high + 1*fx_high\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 9060 -- 10140 11820 -- 14580  
Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low +2* fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +2*
fy_high\|  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 10440 -- 12360  
Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|fx_low -- 4*fy_high\| \|fx_high --
4*fy_low\| \|fy_low -- 4*fx_high\| \|fy_high -- 4*fx_low\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 11220 -- 14880 3480 -- 4620  
Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low - 3*fy_high\| \|2*fx_high -
3*fy_low\| \|2*fy_low - 3*fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -3*fx_low\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 5940 -- 8760 660 -- 2640  
Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|fx_low + 4*fy_low\| \|fx_high +
4*fy_high\| \|fy_low + 4*fx_low\| \|fy_high + 4*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 15120 -- 18780 10980 -- 12120  
Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low + 3*fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +
3*fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + 3*fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + 3*fx_high\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 13740 -- 16560 12360 -- 14340  
NOTE : For each IMD item, when two bound values before taking absolute have
different signs, the relevant IMD range shall be set such that (1) the lower
bound is 0 and (2) the upper bound is the bigger value of the two after taking
absolute.
Based on above Table , it can be seen that
> 2^nd^ order IMD products may fall into Rx frequencies of bands 1, 2, 3, 4,
> 9, 10, 11, 21, 23, 24, 25, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 39, 45, 46, 47, 50, 51,
> 65, 66, 70, 74, 75, 76, n91, n92, n93, n94
>
> 3^rd^ order IMD products may fall into Rx frequencies of bands 2, 3, 9, 22,
> 25, 31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 39, 42, 43, 46, 47, 48, 49, 52, 70, 71, 72, 73,
> n77, n78, n79, n87, n88
>
> 4^th^ order IMD products may fall into Rx frequencies of bands 1, 2, 3, 4,
> 7, 9, 10, 22, 23, 25, 30, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 48,
> 49, 52, 53, 65, 66, 69, 70, n77, n78, n79, n90
>
> 5^th^ order IMD products may fall into Rx frequencies of bands 1, 2, 3, 4,
> 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26,
> 27, 28, 29, 30, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 48,
> 49, 50, 51, 53, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 74, 75, 76, n77, n78, n79, 85, n90,
> n91, n92 ,n93, n94
>
> Self-interference to own Rx frequencies are shown as red.
Table 6.5.2.2-2 lists the protected bands required for the 2UL bands CA
configuration.
**Table 6.5.2.2-2: Protected bands for the 2UL bands CA configuration**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | **UL |** Spu | | | | | | | | NR CA | rious | | | | | | | | Confi | emiss | | | | | | | | gurat | ion**| | | | | | | | ion** | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+===+=======+ | | * | * | **Ma |** MBW | **N | | | | |_Prot |_ Freq | ximum | (M | OTE** | | | | | ected | uency | Level | Hz)**| | | | | | b | range | (d | | | | | | | and** | (M | Bm)**| | | | | | | | Hz)** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | CA_n | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | 1-n77 | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 5, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 74 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 4 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3, 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 1880 | - | 1895 | -40 | 1 | 4, 6 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 1895 | - | 1915 | -15.5 | 5 | 4, 6, | | | uency | | | | | | 7 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 1915 | - | 1920 | +1.6 | 5 | 4, 6, | | | uency | | | | | | 7 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | anges | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | ~OOB~ | | | | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.5. | | | | | | | | | 3.1-1 | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idth. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 6: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | any | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1920 | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | 198 | | | | | | | | | 0 MHz | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | stric | | | | | | | | | tion: | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 927.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1929. | | | | | | | | | 5 MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1930 | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | 193 | | | | | | | | | 8 MHz | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to 54 | | | | | | | | | RB. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 7: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | adj | | | | | | | | | acent | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | ands, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | could | | | | | | | | | imply | | | | | | | | | risk | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmful | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | terfe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | UE(s) | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+
#### 6.5.2.3 REFSENS requirements
MSD for harmonic issues is already covered by the study for fallback
combinations of 1UL/2DL. Therefore, here we focus on MSD for IMD issues.
Table 6.5.2.3-1 lists the MSD required due to 2^nd^ and 4^th^ IMD for the dual
uplink configuration. We use same MSD as DC_1_n77 specified in TS 38.101-3.
Note that no MSD for 3^rd^, 4^th^ and 5^th^ IMD to n77 is specified in TS
38.101-3, and then we follow the result.
**Table 6.5.2.3-1: MSD due to IMD issue**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | S | | | | | | | | | ating | ource | | | | | | | | | band | of | | | | | | | | | / | IMD | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | | uplex | | | | | | | | | | mode | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | CA | Oper | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | D | | | | ating | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | (dB) | uplex | | | Con | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | | mode | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | CA | 1 | 1950 | 5 | 25 | 2140 | 29.8 | FDD | IM | | _n1A | | | | | | | | D2^4^ | | -n77A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | 32.5 | | | | | | | | | | ^5^ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | n77 | 4090 | 10 | 50 | 4090 | N/A | TDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | CA | 1 | 1950 | 5 | 25 | 2140 | 8.0 | FDD | IM | | _n1A | | | | | | | | D4^4^ | | -n77A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | 10 | | | | | | | | | | .7^5^ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | n77 | 3710 | 10 | 50 | 3710 | N/A | TDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | bject | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | IMD5 | | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | | MSD | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | speci | | | | | | | | | | fied. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 5: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | | tenna | | | | | | | | | | ports | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | supp | | | | | | | | | | orted | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | EN-DC | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | onfig | | | | | | | | | | ured. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 6.6 CA_n77-n79
### 6.6.1 Common for 1 band UL and 2 bands UL CA
#### 6.6.1.1 Operating bands for CA
**Table 6.6.1.1-1: CA band combination of band n77+n79**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **NR |** U | **Dow |** Dup | | | | | | B | plink | nlink | lex**| | | | | | and** | (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | | b | b | **m | | | | | | | and** | and**| ode** | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+====+=======+=====+ | | **BS |** BS | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | trans | rece | | | | | | | | mit**| ive** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | ** | ** | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | F~U | F~D | | | | | | | | L_hi | L_hi | | | | | | | | gh~**| gh~** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n77 | 3300 | -- | 4200 | 3300 | -- | 4200 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n79 | 4400 | -- | 5000 | 4400 | -- | 5000 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
#### 6.6.1.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
**Table 6.6.1.2-1: Supported bandwidths per CA band combination of band
n77+n79**
NR CA configuration | Uplink CA configuration | NR Band | SCS (kHz) | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 25 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz | 50 MHz | 60 MHz | 70 MHz | 80 MHz | 90 MHz | 100 MHz | Bandwidth combination set  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA_n77A-n79A | CA_n77A-n79A | n77 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
|  | n79 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  | Yes |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  | Yes |   
#### 6.6.1.3 UE co-existence studies
This section is skipped since CA_n77-n79 without 2UL CA has been already
specified in TS 38.101-1, and impact of harmonic issue has been discussed in
TR 37.865-01-01, where n77 and n79 is assumed as synchronous operation.
#### 6.6.1.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n77-n79 , the ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~ values are given in the tables
below. The same values are shown as what are specified in TS 38.101-1.
**Table 6.6.1.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
CA_n77-n79 n77 0.5 n79 0.5
**Table 6.6.1.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
CA_n77-n79 n77 0 n79 0
#### 6.6.1.5 REFSENS requirements
This section is skipped since CA_n77-n79 without 2UL CA has been already
specified in TS 38.101-1, and impact of harmonic issue has been discussed in
TR 37.865-01-01, where n77 and n79 is assumed as synchronous operation.
### 6.6.1.6 OOB blocking exception requirements
This section is skipped since CA_n77-n79 without 2UL CA has been already
specified.
### 6.6.2 Specific for 2 bands UL CA
#### 6.6.2.1 Maximum output power for inter-band CA
**Table 6.6.2.1-1: UE Power Class for uplink inter-band CA**
Uplink CA Configuration Class 3 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
CA_n77A-n79A 23 +2/-3^2^ NOTE 2: 2 refers to the transmission bandwidths
confined within F~UL_low~ and F~UL_low~ + 4 MHz or F~UL_high~ -- 4 MHz and
F~UL_high~, the maximum output power requirement is relaxed by reducing the
lower tolerance limit by 1.5 dB
#### 6.6.2.2 UE co-existence studies
Table 6.6.2.2-1 lists Band n77 +Band n79 2UL bands CA 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 4^th^ and
5^th^ order IMD for the UE-to-UE coexistence analysis.
Table 6.6.2.2-1: Band n77 and Band n79 UL IMD products
UE UL carriers fx_low fx_high fy_low fy_high
* * *
2^nd^ order IMD products \|fy_low -- fx_high\| \|fy_high -- fx_low\| \|fy_low
+ fx_low\| \|fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 200 -- 1700 7700
-- 9200  
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- fy_high\| \|2*fx_high --
fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -- fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 1600 -- 4000 4600 -- 6700  
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low + fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +
fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 11000 -- 13400 12100 -- 14200  
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products (fx_low -- max BW fy) (fx_high + max BW fy)
(fy_low -- max BW fx) (fy_high + max BW fx) IMD frequency limits (MHz) 3200 --
4300 4300 -- 5100  
Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products \|3*fx_low --1* fy_high\| \|3*fx_high --
1*fy_low\| \|3*fy_low -- 1*fx_high\| \|3*fy_high -- 1*fx_low\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 4900 -- 8200 9000 -- 11700  
Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low --2* fy_high\| \|2*fx_high --2*
fy_low\|  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 400 -- 3400  
Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products \|3*fx_low +1* fy_low\| \|3*fx_high +
1*fy_high\| \|3*fy_low + 1*fx_low\| \|3*fy_high + 1*fx_high\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 14300 -- 17600 16500 -- 19200  
Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low +2* fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +2*
fy_high\|  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 15400 -- 18400  
Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|fx_low -- 4*fy_high\| \|fx_high --
4*fy_low\| \|fy_low -- 4*fx_high\| \|fy_high -- 4*fx_low\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 13400 -- 16700 8200 -- 12400  
Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low - 3*fy_high\| \|2*fx_high -
3*fy_low\| \|2*fy_low - 3*fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -3*fx_low\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 4800 -- 8400 100 -- 3800  
Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|fx_low + 4*fy_low\| \|fx_high +
4*fy_high\| \|fy_low + 4*fx_low\| \|fy_high + 4*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 20900 -- 24200 17600 -- 21800  
Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low + 3*fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +
3*fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + 3*fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + 3*fx_high\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 19800 -- 23400 18700 -- 22600  
NOTE : For each IMD item, when two bound values before taking absolute have
different signs, the relevant IMD range shall be set such that (1) the lower
bound is 0 and (2) the upper bound is the bigger value of the two after taking
absolute.
Based on above Table, it can be seen that
> 2^nd^ order IMD products may fall into Rx frequencies of bands 5, 6, 8, 11,
> 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 24, 26, 27, 28, 29, 32, 44, 45, 50, 51, 67,
> 68, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 85, n91, n92, n93, n94
>
> 3^rd^ order IMD products may fall into Rx frequencies of bands 1, 2, 3, 4,
> 7, 9, 10, 22, 23, 25, 30, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 46, 47,
> 48, 49, 52, 53, 65, 66, 69, 70, n77, n78, n79, n90
>
> 4^th^ order IMD products may fall into Rx frequencies of bands 1, 2, 3, 4,
> 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27,
> 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 44, 45, 46, 47, 50,
> 51, 52, 53, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, n77, n78, n79,
> 85, 87, 88, n90, n91, n92, n93, n94
>
> 5^th^ order IMD products may fall into Rx frequencies of bands 1, 2, 3, 4,
> 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26,
> 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45,
> 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75,
> 76, n77, n78, n79, 85, 87, 88, n90, n91, n92, n93, n94
Table 6.6.2.2-2 lists the protected bands required for the 2UL bands CA
configuration.
**Table 6.6.2.2-2: Protected bands for the 2UL bands CA configuration**
**UL NR CA Configuration** **Spurious emission**
* * *
                                                                                           **Protected band**                                               **Frequency range (MHz)**   **Maximum Level (dBm)**   **MBW (MHz)**   **NOTE**
CA_n77-n79 E-UTRA Band 1, 3, 5, 8, 11, 18, 19, 21, 28, 34, 40, 41, 65, 74
F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1  
Frequency range 1884.5 - 1915.7 -41 0.3 3 NOTE 3: Applicable when co-existence
with PHS system operating in 1884.5 - 1915.7 MHz.
6.6.2.3 REFSENS requirements
Considering both n77 and n79 are TDD bands and synchronous operation for
CA_n77-n79 is assumed, no MSD needed for dual UL of CA_n77-n79.
## 6.7 CA_n78-n79
### 6.7.1 Common for 1 band UL and 2 bands UL CA
#### 6.7.1.1 Operating bands for CA
**Table 6.7.1.1-1: CA band combination of band n78+n79**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **NR |** U | **Dow |** Dup | | | | | | B | plink | nlink | lex**| | | | | | and** | (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | | b | b | **m | | | | | | | and** | and**| ode** | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+====+=======+=====+ | | **BS |** BS | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | trans | rece | | | | | | | | mit**| ive** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | ** | ** | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | F~U | F~D | | | | | | | | L_hi | L_hi | | | | | | | | gh~**| gh~** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n78 | 3300 | -- | 3800 | 3300 | -- | 3800 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n79 | 4400 | -- | 5000 | 4400 | -- | 5000 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
#### 6.7.1.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
**Table 6.7.1.2-1: Supported bandwidths per CA band combination of band
n78+n79**
NR CA configuration | Uplink CA configuration | NR Band | SCS (kHz) | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 25 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz | 50 MHz | 60 MHz | 70 MHz | 80 MHz | 90 MHz | 100 MHz | Bandwidth combination set  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA_n78A-n79AX | CA_n78A-n79AY | n78 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
|  | n79 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  | Yes |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  | Yes |   
|  | n78 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  | 1  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
|  | n79 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  | Yes |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  | Yes |   
CA_ n78(2A)-n79A | CA_n78A-n79A | n78 | See CA_n78(2A) Bandwidth Combination Set 1 in Table 5.5A.2-1 | 0 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n79 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  | Yes |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  | Yes |   
NOTE X: Simultaneous Rx/Tx capability does not apply for UEs supporting band n78 with a n77 implementation. NOTE Y: Simultaneous Rx/Tx capability does not apply to uplink CA transmission, and only apply to single uplink transmission. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
#### 6.7.1.3 UE co-existence studies
This section is skipped since CA_n78-n79 without 2UL CA has been already
specified in TS 38.101-1, and impact of harmonic issue has been discussed in
TR 37.865-01-01.
Furthermore, ΔTIB and ΔRIB and MSD requirements have been specified for
asynchronous operation in TS 38.101-1.
#### 6.7.1.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n77-n79 , the ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~ values are given in the tables
below. The same values are shown as what are specified in TS 38.101-1.
**Table 6.7.1.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
CA_n78-n79 n78 0.5 1.5^8^ n79 0.5 1.5^8^ NOTE 8: The requirements only apply
for UE supporting inter-band carrier aggregation with simultaneous Rx/Tx
capability, and NR UL carrier frequencies are confined to 3700 MHz-3800MHz for
n78 and 4400 MHz-4500MHz for n79. Simultaneous Rx/Tx capability does not apply
for UEs supporting band n78 with a n77 implementation.
**Table 6.7.1.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
CA_n78-n79 n78 0 n79 0
#### 6.7.1.5 REFSENS requirements
The MSD due to cross band isolation are specified below for n78 25MHz and
30MHz.
Table 6.7.1.5-1: Reference sensitivity exceptions (MSD) due to cross band
isolation for NR CA FR1
NR Band / Channel bandwidth of the affected DL band |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
UL band | DL band | 5  
MHz (dB) | 10  
MHz (dB) | 15  
MHz (dB) | 20  
MHz (dB) | 25  
MHz (dB) | 30 MHz (dB) | 40 MHz (dB) | 50 MHz (dB) | 60 MHz (dB) | 70 MHz (dB) | 80 MHz (dB) | 90 MHz (dB) | 100 MHz (dB)  
n781 | n79 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 2 | 2 | 2 |  | 2 |  | 2  
n79 | n781 |  | 2.6 | 2.6 | 2.6 | 2.6 | 2.6 | 2.6 | 2.6 | 2.6 |  | 2.6 | 2.6 | 2.6  
NOTE 1: The requirements only apply for UEs supporting inter-band carrier aggregation with simultaneous Rx/Tx capability. Simultaneous Rx/Tx capability does not apply for UEs supporting band n78 with a n77 implementation. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 6.7.1.5-2: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity exceptions due
to cross band isolation for NR CA FR1
NR Band / SCS / Channel bandwidth of the affected DL band |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
UL band | DL band | SCS of UL band (kHz) | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 25 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz | 50 MHz | 60 MHz | 70 MHz | 80 MHz | 90 MHz | 100 MHz  
n783 | n79 | 30 |  |  |  |  |  | 270 | 270 | 270 | 270 |  | 270 |  | 270  
n79 | n783 | 30 |  | 270 | 270 | 270 | 270 | 270 | 270 | 270 | 270 |  | 270 | 270 | 270  
NOTE 1: The UL configuration applies regardless of the channel bandwidth of the UL band unless the UL resource blocks exceed that specified in Table 7.3.2-3 for the uplink bandwidth in which case the allocation according to Table 7.3.2-3 applies. NOTE 2: Refers to the UL resource blocks shall be located as close as possible to the downlink operating band but confined within the transmission bandwidth configuration for the channel bandwidth in Table 5.3.2-1. NOTE 3: The requirements only apply for UEs supporting inter-band carrier aggregation with simultaneous Rx/Tx capability. Simultaneous Rx/Tx capability does not apply for UEs supporting band n78 with a n77 implementation. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
This section is skipped since CA_n78-n79 without 2UL CA has been already
specified in TS 38.101-1, and impact of harmonic issue has been discussed in
TR 37.865-01-01.
Furthermore, ΔTIB and ΔRIB and MSD requirements have been specified for
asynchronous operation in TS 38.101-1.
#### 6.7.1.6 OOB blocking exception requirements
This section is skipped since CA_n78-n79 without 2UL CA has been already
specified.
### 6.7.2 Specific for 2 bands UL CA
#### 6.7.2.1 Maximum output power for inter-band CA
**Table 6.7.2.1-1: UE Power Class for uplink inter-band CA**
Uplink CA Configuration Class 3 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
CA_n78A-n79A 23 +2/-3^2^ NOTE 2: 2 refers to the transmission bandwidths
confined within F~UL_low~ and F~UL_low~ + 4 MHz or F~UL_high~ -- 4 MHz and
F~UL_high~, the maximum output power requirement is relaxed by reducing the
lower tolerance limit by 1.5 dB
#### 6.7.2.2 UE co-existence studies
Table 6.7.2.2-1 lists Band n78 +Band n79 2UL bands CA 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 4^th^ and
5^th^ order IMD for the UE-to-UE coexistence analysis.
**Table 6.7.2.2-1: Band n78 and Band n79 UL IMD products**
UE UL carriers fx_low fx_high fy_low fy_high
* * *
2^nd^ order IMD products \|fy_low -- fx_high\| \|fy_high -- fx_low\| \|fy_low
+ fx_low\| \|fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 600 -- 1700 7700
-- 8800  
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- fy_high\| \|2*fx_high --
fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -- fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 1600 -- 3200 5000 -- 6700  
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low + fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +
fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 11000 -- 12600 12100 -- 13800  
Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products (fx_low -- max BW fy) (fx_high + max BW fy)
(fy_low -- max BW fx) (fy_high + max BW fx) IMD frequency limits (MHz) 3200 --
3900 4300 -- 5100  
Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products \|3*fx_low --1* fy_high\| \|3*fx_high --
1*fy_low\| \|3*fy_low -- 1*fx_high\| \|3*fy_high -- 1*fx_low\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 4900 -- 7000 9400 -- 11700  
Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low --2* fy_high\| \|2*fx_high --2*
fy_low\|  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1200 -- 3400  
Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products \|3*fx_low +1* fy_low\| \|3*fx_high +
1*fy_high\| \|3*fy_low + 1*fx_low\| \|3*fy_high + 1*fx_high\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 14300 -- 16400 16500 -- 18800  
Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low +2* fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +2*
fy_high\|  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 15400 -- 17600  
Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|fx_low -- 4*fy_high\| \|fx_high --
4*fy_low\| \|fy_low -- 4*fx_high\| \|fy_high -- 4*fx_low\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 13800 -- 16700 8200 -- 10800  
Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low - 3*fy_high\| \|2*fx_high -
3*fy_low\| \|2*fy_low - 3*fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -3*fx_low\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 5600 -- 8400 100 -- 2600  
Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|fx_low + 4*fy_low\| \|fx_high +
4*fy_high\| \|fy_low + 4*fx_low\| \|fy_high + 4*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 20900 -- 23800 17600 -- 20200  
Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low + 3*fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +
3*fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + 3*fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + 3*fx_high\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 19800 -- 22600 18700 -- 21400  
NOTE : For each IMD item, when two bound values before taking absolute have
different signs, the relevant IMD range shall be set such that (1) the lower
bound is 0 and (2) the upper bound is the bigger value of the two after taking
absolute.
Based on above Table, it can be seen that
2^nd^ order IMD products may fall into Rx frequencies of bands 5, 6, 8, 11,
12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 24, 26, 27, 28, 29, 32, 44, 45, 50, 51, 67,
68, 71, 74, 75, 76, 85, n91, n92, n93, n94
3^rd^ order IMD products may fall into Rx frequencies of bands 1, 2, 3, 4, 7,
9, 10, 22, 23, 25, 30, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 46, 47, 48,
49, 52, 53, 65, 66, 69, 70, n77, n78, n79, n90
4^th^ order IMD products may fall into Rx frequencies of bands 1, 2, 3, 4, 7,
9, 10, 11, 21, 23, 24, 25, 30, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 45, 46,
47, 50, 51, 52, 53, 65, 66, 69, 70, 74, 75, 76, n77, n78, n79, n90, n91, n92,
n93, n94
5^th^ order IMD products may fall into Rx frequencies of bands 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29,
30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 44, 45, 46, 47, 50, 51, 53,
65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 85, n87, n88, n90, n91, n92,
n93, n94
**Table 6.7.2.2-2: Protected bands for the 2UL bands CA configuration**
**UL NR CA Configuration** **Spurious emission**
* * *
                                                                                           **Protected band**                                               **Frequency range (MHz)**   **Maximum Level (dBm)**   **MBW (MHz)**   **NOTE**
CA_n78-n79 E-UTRA Band 1, 3, 5, 8, 11, 18, 19, 21, 28, 34, 40, 41, 65, 74
F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1  
Frequency range 1884.5 - 1915.7 -41 0.3 3 NOTE 3: Applicable when co-existence
with PHS system operating in 1884.5 - 1915.7 MHz.
#### 6.7.2.3 REFSENS requirements
For harmonic, MSD studies can be omitted since MSD studies have been already
conducted in 1UL/2DL NR CA fallback combinations.
For IMD, Considering both n78 and n79 are TDD bands and IMD occurs when UE
transmit in both n77 and n79 and receive in neither n77 and n79, no MSD are
needed for dual UL of CA_n78-n79.
## 6.8 CA_n25-n48
### 6.8.1 Common for 1 band UL and 2 bands UL CA
#### 6.8.1.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.8.1.1-1: CA band combination of band n25 and n48
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | NR | U | Dow | D | | | | | | Band | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | | (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | | band | band | mode | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+====+=======+=====+ | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | tra | re | | | | | | | | nsmit | ceive | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n25 | 1850 | -- | 1915 | 1930 | -- | 1995 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n48 | 3550 | -- | 3700 | 3550 | -- | 3700 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
#### 6.8.1.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.8.1.2-1: Supported bandwidths per CA band combination of band n25 and
n48
**NR CA configuration** | **UL** | **NR Band** | **SCS** **(kHz)** | **5** **MHz** | **10** **MHz** | **15** **MHz** | **20** **MHz** | **25 MHz** | **30 MHz** | **40** **MHz** | **50** **MHz** | **60** **MHz** | **70 MHz** | **80** **MHz** | **90** **MHz** | **100 MHz** | **BCS**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA_n25A-n48A | CA_n25A-n48A | n25 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n48 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
|  | n25 |  | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1  
|  | n48 |  | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 |  |  | 40 | 50 | 60 |  | 80 | 90 | 100 |   
CA_n25A-n48(2A) | CA_n25A-n48A | n25 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n48 | See CA_n48(2A) Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table 5.5A.2-1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n25 |  | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1  
|  | n48 |  | See CA_n48(2A) Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table 5.5A.2-1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n25A-n48C | CA_n25A-n48A | n25 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n48 | See CA_n48C Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table 5.5A.1-1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n25 |  | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1  
|  | n48 | See CA_n48C Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table 5.5A.1-1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
#### 6.8.1.3 UE co-existence studies
Table 6.8.1.3-1 lists up to 7^th^ harmonics for n25A-n48A which shows that
there are 2^nd^ harmonics issues.
**Table 6.8.1.3-1: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic**
                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**      **3^rd^ Harmonic**     **4^th^ Harmonic**      **5^th^ Harmonic**     **6^th^ Harmonic**      **7^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
        **UL Low Band Edge**   **UL High Band Edge**   **UL Low Band Edge**   **UL High Band Edge**   **UL Low Band Edge**   **UL High Band Edge**   **UL Low Band Edge**   **UL High Band Edge**   **UL Low Band Edge**   **UL High Band Edge**   **UL Low Band Edge**   **UL High Band Edge**   **UL Low Band Edge**   **UL High Band Edge**
n25 1850 1915 3700 3830 5550 5745 7400 7660 9250 9575 11100 11490 12950 13405
n48 3550 3700 7100 7400 10650 11100 14200 14800 17750 18500 21300 22200 24850
25900
Table 6.8.1.3-2 list harmonic mixing issue for the 2DL bands CA with 1 UL. As
can be seen there are no harmonic mixing issues.
Table 6.8.1.3-2 Harmonic mixing for 2DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n25 1850 1915 1930 1995 3860 3990 5790 5985
7720 7980 n48 3550 3700 3550 3700 7400 10650 11100 14200 14800 7400
#### 6.8.1.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n25-n48, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are derived from CA_2-48 and
CA_n2-n48 and are given in the tables below.
**Table 6.8.1.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
NR CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
CA_n25-n48 n25 0.6 n48 0.8
**Table 6.8.1.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
NR CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
CA_n25-n48 n25 0.2 n48 0.5
#### 6.8.1.5 REFSENS requirements
As can be seen in the co-existence studies in 6.8.1.3 there are 2^nd^
harmonics issues from n25 UL into the n48 DL. MSD values are same as for
CA_n2A-n48A and need to be inserted into the 38.101-1 tables below.
CA_n25-n48 need to be added in NOTE 1 of Table 7.3A.4-1.
Table 7.3A.4-1: Reference sensitivity exceptions due to UL harmonic for NR CA
FR1
MSD due to harmonic exception for the DL band |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
UL band | DL band | **5 MHz** | **10 MHz** | **15 MHz** | **20 MHz** | **25 MHz** | **30 MHz** | **40 MHz** | **50 MHz** | **60 MHz** | **80 MHz** | **90 MHz** | **100 MHz**  
|  | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB  
n25 | n481, 2 | 27.1 | 23.9 | 22.1 | 20.9 |  |  | 17.9 | 16.912 | 16.112 | 14.812 | 14.312 | 13.812  
| n483 | 1.9 | 1.1 | 0.8 | 0.3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE 1: These requirements apply when there is at least one individual RE within the uplink transmission bandwidth of the aggressor (lower) band for which the 2nd transmitter harmonic is within the downlink transmission bandwidth of a victim (higher) band and a range ∆FHD above and below the edge of this downlink transmission bandwidth. The value ∆FHD depends on the band combination: ∆FHD = 10 MHz for CA_n1-n77, **CA_n2-n78,** CA_n3-n77, CA_n3-n78, CA_n2-n48, CA_n25-n48, CA_n25-n78, CA_n48-n66, CA_n66-n78. NOTE 2: The requirements should be verified for UL NR-ARFCN of the aggressor (lower) band (superscript LB) such that in MHz and with carrier frequency in the victim (higher) band in MHz and the channel bandwidth configured in the lower band. NOTE 3: The requirements are only applicable to channel bandwidths no larger than 20 MHz and with a carrier frequency at MHz offset from in the victim (higher band) with , whereandare the channel bandwidths configured in the aggressor (lower) and victim (higher) bands in MHz, respectively. NOTE 12: For these bandwidths, the minimum requirements are restricted to operation when carrier is configured as a downlink carrier part of CA configuration. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 7.3A.4-2: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity exceptions due
to UL harmonic interference for NR CA, FR1
NR Band / Channel bandwidth of the high band
* * *
UL band DL band 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz 25 MHz 30 MHz 40 MHz 50 MHz 60 MHz
80 MHz 90 MHz 100 MHz n25 n48 25 50 50 50 50 50 50 50 50 50
#### 6.8.1.6 OOB blocking exception requirements
No need to specify OOB exception requirement for CA_n25-n48 since it belongs
to H-H configuration-
Table 6.8.1.6-1: CA band combination with exceptions allowed
CA band combination
* * *
No exceptions
### 6.8.2 Specific for 2 bands UL CA
#### 6.8.2.1 Maximum output power for inter-band CA
**Table 6.8.2.2-1: UE Power Class for uplink inter-band CA**
Uplink CA Configuration Class 3 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
CA_25A-n48A 23 +2/-3^2^ NOTE 2: 2 refers to the transmission bandwidths
confined within F~UL_low~ and F~UL_low~ + 4 MHz or F~UL_high~ -- 4 MHz and
F~UL_high~, the maximum output power requirement is relaxed by reducing the
lower tolerance limit by 1.5 dB
#### 6.8.2.2 UE co-existence studies
For 2UL/2DL UE coexistence study 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 4^th^, 5^th^, 6^th^ and 7^th^
order harmonics and 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 4^th^ and 5^th^ order intermodulation
products were calculated and presented below.
**Table 6.8.2.2-1: Band n25 and Band n48 UL harmonics and IMD products**
UE UL carriers fx_low fx_high fy_low fy_high
* * *
UL Frequency [MHz] 1850 1915 3550 3700 DL Frequency [MHz] 1930 1995 3550 3700
2nd harmonics frequency limits 2*fx_low 2*fx_high 2* fy_low 2* fy_high 2nd
harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 3700 3830 7100 7400 3rd harmonics frequency
limits 3*fx_low 3*fx_high 3* fy_low 3* fy_high 3rd harmonics frequency limits
(MHz) 5550 5745 10650 11100 4th harmonics frequency limits 4*fx_low 4*fx_high
4* fy_low 4* fy_high 4th harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 7400 7660 14200
14800 5th harmonics frequency limits 5*fx_low 5*fx_high 5* fy_low 5* fy_high
5th harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 9250 9575 17750 18500 6th harmonics
frequency limits 6*fx_low 6*fx_high 6* fy_low 6* fy_high 6th harmonics
frequency limits (MHz) 11100 11490 21300 22200 7th harmonics frequency limits
7*fx_low 7*fx_high 7* fy_low 7* fy_high 7th harmonics frequency limits (MHz)
12950 13405 24850 25900 2nd order IMD products \|fy_low -- fx_high\| \|fy_high
-- fx_low\| \|fy_low + fx_low\| \|fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 1635 1850 5400 5615 3rd order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- fy_high\|
\|2*fx_high -- fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -- fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD
frequency limits (MHz) 0 280 5185 5550 3rd order IMD products \|2*fx_low +
fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + fx_high\|
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 7250 7530 8950 9315 Two-tone 4th order IMD products
\|3*fx_low --1* fy_high\| \|3*fx_high -- 1*fy_low\| \|3*fy_low -- 1*fx_high\|
\|3*fy_high -- 1*fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1850 2195 8735 9250 Two-
tone 4th order IMD products \|2*fx_low --2* fy_high\| \|2*fx_high --2*
fy_low\| \|2*fx_low +2* fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +2* fy_high\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 3700 3270 10800 11230 Two-tone 4th order IMD products \|3*fx_low
+1* fy_low\| \|3*fx_high + 1*fy_high\| \|3*fy_low + 1*fx_low\| \|3*fy_high +
1*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 9100 9445 12500 13015 Two-tone 5th
order IMD products \|fx_low -- 4*fy_high\| \|fx_high -- 4*fy_low\| \|fy_low --
4*fx_high\| \|fy_high -- 4*fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 12950 12285
4110 3700 Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|2*fx_low - 3*fy_high\| \|2*fx_high
- 3*fy_low\| \|2*fy_low - 3*fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -3*fx_low\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 7400 6820 1355 1850 Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|fx_low +
4*fy_low\| \|fx_high + 4*fy_high\| \|fy_low + 4*fx_low\| \|fy_high +
4*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 16050 16715 10950 11360 Two-tone 5th
order IMD products \|2*fx_low + 3*fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + 3*fy_high\|
\|2*fy_low + 3*fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + 3*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz)
14350 14930 12650 13145
Based on Table 6.8.2.2-1, there is 4^th^ order IMD issue for CA_n25-n48
Table 6.8.2.2-2 lists the protected bands required for the 2UL bands CA
configuration.
**Table 6.8.2.2-2: Protected bands for the 2UL bands CA configuration**
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | **UL |** Sp | | | | | | | | NR CA | urious | | | | | | | | Con | emis | | | | | | | | figura | sion**| | | | | | | | tion** | | | | | | | | +========+========+========+========+========+========+===+===+ | | **Pro |** Fre | **M |** MBW | ** | | | | | tected | quency | aximum | ( | NOTE**| | | | | band** | range | Level | MHz)**| | | | | | | ( | ( | | | | | | | | MHz)** | dBm)** | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | CA_n | E-UTRA | FD | - | FDL | -50 | 1 | | | 25-n48 | Band | L_low | | _high | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, , | | | | | | | | | 50, | | | | | | | | | 51, | | | | | | | | | 53, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70, | | | | | | | | | 71, 85 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | | E-UTRA | FD | - | FDL | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | Band | L_low | | _high | | | | | | 41, NR | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | n79 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: As | | | | | | | | | excep | | | | | | | | | tions, | | | | | | | | | measur | | | | | | | | | ements | | | | | | | | | with a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appl | | | | | | | | | icable | | | | | | | | | requir | | | | | | | | | ements | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | efined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.5 | | | | | | | | | .3.1-2 | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | mitted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | signed | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | arrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | | measu | | | | | | | | | rement | | | | | | | | | due to | | | | | | | | | 2nd, | | | | | | | | | 3rd, | | | | | | | | | 4th or | | | | | | | | | 5th | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmonic | | | | | | | | | sp | | | | | | | | | urious | | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | | sions. | | | | | | | | | Due to | | | | | | | | | spr | | | | | | | | | eading | | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmonic | | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | | ission | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | exc | | | | | | | | | eption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | llowed | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | | | 1 MHz | | | | | | | | | fre | | | | | | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | immed | | | | | | | | | iately | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | utside | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmonic | | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | | ission | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | | sides | | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmonic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion. | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | esults | | | | | | | | | in an | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | verall | | | | | | | | | exc | | | | | | | | | eption | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | terval | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entred | | | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmonic | | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | | ission | | | | | | | | | of (2 | | | | | | | | | MHz + | | | | | | | | | N x | | | | | | | | | LCRB x | | | | | | | | | RBsize | | | | | | | | | kHz), | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | N is | | | | | | | | | 2, 3, | | | | | | | | | 4, 5 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 2nd, | | | | | | | | | 3rd, | | | | | | | | | 4th or | | | | | | | | | 5th | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmonic | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | espect | | | | | | | | | ively. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | exc | | | | | | | | | eption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | llowed | | | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | | | measu | | | | | | | | | rement | | | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | | | dwidth | | | | | | | | | (MBW) | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | otally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | par | | | | | | | | | tially | | | | | | | | | ov | | | | | | | | | erlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | verall | | | | | | | | | exc | | | | | | | | | eption | | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | | erval. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 8: | | | | | | | | | Appl | | | | | | | | | icable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | co-exi | | | | | | | | | stence | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | PHS | | | | | | | | | system | | | | | | | | | ope | | | | | | | | | rating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | 1884.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1915.7 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+
#### 6.8.2.3 REFSENS requirements
As seen in the coexistence study the 4^th^ IMD might fall in own Rx band why
MSD is needed for 2 band UL. Values from CA_n2A-n48A is reused due to similar
frequency range.
**Table 6.8.2.3-1: MSD due to IMD issue**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+ | Oper | S | | | | | | | | | ating | ource | | | | | | | | | band | of | | | | | | | | | / | IMD | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | | uplex | | | | | | | | | | mode | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+======+=======+======+ | CA | Oper | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | D | | | | ating | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | (dB) | uplex | | | Con | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | | mode | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+ | C | n25 | 1 | 5 | 25 | 1 | 12 | FDD | IMD4 | | A_n2 | | 852.5 | | | 932.5 | | | | | 5-n48 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+ | | n48 | 3625 | 20 | 100 | 3625 | N/A | TDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+
## 6.9 **CA_n28-n79**
### 6.9.1 Common for 1 band UL and 2 bands UL CA
#### 6.9.1.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.9.1.1-1: CA band combination CA_n28A-n79A
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **NR |** NR | **U |** Dow | **Dup | | | | | | CA | B | plink | nlink | lex** | | | | | | Band | and**| (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | Com | | b | b |** m | | | | | | binat | | and**| and** | ode**| | | | | | ion** | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+====+=======+=====+ | | | **BS |** BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | trans | rece | | | | | | | | | mit**| ive** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | ** | ** | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F~U | F~D | | | | | | | | | L_hi | L_hi | | | | | | | | | gh~**| gh~** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **CA\ | n28 | 703 | -- | 748 | 758 | -- | 803 | FDD | | _n28- | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | | n79** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | n79 | 4400 | -- | 5000 | 4400 | -- | 5000 | TDD | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
#### 6.9.1.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.9.1.2-1: Supported bandwidths per CA band combination CA_n28A-n79A
NR CA configuration Uplink CA configuration or single uplink carrier^10^ NR
Band Channel bandwidth (MHz) (NOTE 3) Bandwidth combination set
* * *
CA_n28A-n79A CA_n28A-n79A n28 5, 10, 15, 20, 30 0 n79 40, 50, 60, 80, 100  
CA_n28A-n79C CA_n79C n28 5, 10, 15, 20, 30 0 n79 CA_n79C_BCS0
#### 6.9.1.3 UE Co-existence studies
Table 6.9.1.3-1/2 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics and/or harmonics
mixing occur for CA_n28-n79.
**Table 6.9.1.3-1: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic**
                                                                                               **2nd Harmonic**   **3rd Harmonic**    **4th Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n28 703 748 758 803 1406 1496 2109 2244 2812
2992 n79 4400 5000 4400 5000 8800 10000 13200 15000 17600 20000
Based on above table, there is no harmonic interference.
**Table 6.9.1.3-2: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic mixing**
                                                                                               **2nd Harmonic**   **3rd Harmonic**    **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n28 703 748 758 803 1516 1606 2274 2409 3032
3212 n79 4400 5000 4400 5000 8800 10000 13200 15000 17600 20000
Based on above table, there is no harmonic mixing issue.
Referring to clause 7.3.2.2 from TR 38.862, we can get the IMD order for
contiguous UL CA as below.
W~Gap~ = lowest band edge of n79 - highest DL band edge of n28 = 4400 -- 803 =
3597 MHz.
Min(maxUL aggregated BW, UL band bandwidth) = Min(200, 600) = 200 MHz.
IMD order = 2*ceil(W~Gap~ /Min(maxUL aggregated BW, UL band bandwidth) \+ 1 =
37.
Since IMD order is > 11, MSD can be ignored.
#### 6.9.1.4 ∆TIB and ∆RIB values
For CA_n28A-n79A, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB~ are given in the tables below.
Table 6.9.1.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
**CA_n28-n79** **n28** 0.5 **n79** 0.8
Table 6.9.1.4-2: ΔR~IB~
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB~ [dB]
* * *
**CA_n28-n79** **n28** 0.2 **n79** 0.5
#### 6.9.1.5 REFSENs requirements
There is no MSD exception requirement.
#### 6.9.1.6 OOB blocking exception requirements
Since band n28 is a low band and n79 is a wide band, the OOBB exception is
needed.
Table 6.9.1.6-1: CA band combination with exceptions allowed
CA band combination
* * *
CA_n28-n79
### 6.9.2 Specific for 2 bands UL CA
#### 6.9.2.1 Maximum output power for inter-band CA
**Table 6.9.2.1-1: UE Power Class for uplink inter-band CA**
Uplink CA Configuration Class 3 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
CA_n28A-n79A 23 +2/-3^2^ NOTE 2: 2 refers to the transmission bandwidths
confined within F~UL_low~ and F~UL_low~ + 4 MHz or F~UL_high~ -- 4 MHz and
F~UL_high~, the maximum output power requirement is relaxed by reducing the
lower tolerance limit by 1.5 dB
#### 6.9.2.2 UE co-existence studies
Table 6.9.2.2-1 gives IMD interference analysis for CA_n28-n79 with 2 ULs.
**UE UL carriers** **fx_low** **fx_high** **fy_low** **fy_high**
* * *
UL frequency (MHz) 703 748 4400 5000 2^nd^ order IMD products \|fy_low --
fx_high\| \|fy_high -- fx_low\| \|fy_low + fx_low\| \|fy_high + fx_high\| IMD
frequency limits (MHz) 3652 4297 5103 5748 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products
\|2*fx_low -- fy_high\| \|2*fx_high -- fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -- fx_high\|
\|2*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 3594 2904 8052 9297 Two-
tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low + fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + fy_high\|
\|2*fy_low + fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 5806
6496 9503 10748 Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products \|3*fx_low --1* fy_high\|
\|3*fx_high -- 1*fy_low\| \|3*fy_low -- 1*fx_high\| \|3*fy_high -- 1*fx_low\|
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 2891 2156 12452 14297 Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD
products \|3*fx_low +1* fy_low\| \|3*fx_high + 1*fy_high\| \|3*fy_low +
1*fx_low\| \|3*fy_high + 1*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 6509 7244
13903 15748 Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low --2* fy_high\|
\|2*fx_high --2* fy_low\| \|2*fx_low +2* fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +2* fy_high\|
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 8594 7304 10206 11496 Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD
products \|fx_low -- 4*fy_high\| \|fx_high -- 4*fy_low\| \|fy_low --
4*fx_high\| \|fy_high -- 4*fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 19297 16852
1408 2188 Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low - 3*fy_high\|
\|2*fx_high - 3*fy_low\| \|2*fy_low - 3*fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -3*fx_low\| IMD
frequency limits (MHz) 13594 11704 6556 7891 Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products
\|fx_low + 4*fy_low\| \|fx_high + 4*fy_high\| \|fy_low + 4*fx_low\| \|fy_high
+ 4*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 18303 20748 7212 7992 Two-tone 5^th^
order IMD products \|2*fx_low + 3*fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + 3*fy_high\|
\|2*fy_low + 3*fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + 3*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz)
14606 16496 10909 12244
For band combination CA_n28-n79, no IMD interference will fall into Rx.
Table 6.9.2.2-2 lists the protected bands required for the 2UL bands CA
configuration.
Table 6.9.2.2-2: Protected bands for the 2UL bands CA configuration
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | NR CA | Spu | | | | | | | | Con | rious | | | | | | | | figur | emi | | | | | | | | ation | ssion | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=======+ | | Prot | Freq | Ma | MBW | NOTE | | | | | ected | uency | ximum | (MHz) | | | | | | Band | range | Level | | | | | | | | (Mhz) | (dBm) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | C | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | A_n2 | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | 8-n79 | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3, 5, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 74 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 10 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Freq | 470 | - | 694 | -42 | 8 | 4, 14 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Freq | 470 | - | 710 | -26.2 | 6 | 13 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Freq | 662 | - | 694 | -26.2 | 6 | 4 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Freq | 758 | - | 773 | -32 | 1 | 4 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Freq | 773 | - | 803 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 3, | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | 10, | | | range | | | | | | 11 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.5. | | | | | | | | | 3.1-2 | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 2nd, | | | | | | | | | 3rd, | | | | | | | | | 4th | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | 5^th^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | Due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | spre | | | | | | | | | ading | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | | | 1 MHz | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | mmedi | | | | | | | | | ately | | | | | | | | | ou | | | | | | | | | tside | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | | sides | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | | sion. | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | sults | | | | | | | | | in an | | | | | | | | | ov | | | | | | | | | erall | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | | erval | | | | | | | | | ce | | | | | | | | | ntred | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | of (2 | | | | | | | | | MHz + | | | | | | | | | N x | | | | | | | | | L | | | | | | | | | ~CRB~ | | | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 180 | | | | | | | | | kHz), | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | N is | | | | | | | | | 2, 3, | | | | | | | | | 4, 5 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 2nd, | | | | | | | | | 3rd, | | | | | | | | | 4th | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | 5th | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | pecti | | | | | | | | | vely. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (MBW) | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ov | | | | | | | | | erall | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | | rval. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | -exis | | | | | | | | | tence | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | PHS | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 884.5 | | | | | | | | | -1 | | | | | | | | | 915.7 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | anges | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | ~OOB~ | | | | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.5. | | | | | | | | | 3.1-1 | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idth. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 10: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 2545 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 257 | | | | | | | | | 5 MHz | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | 2595 | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | 264 | | | | | | | | | 5vMHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | is 10 | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 11: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 71 | | | | | | | | | 8 MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | 74 | | | | | | | | | 8 MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | is 5 | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | 10 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 13: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for 5 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | 10 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | allo | | | | | | | | | cated | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 718 - | | | | | | | | | 728 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 0 MHz | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idth, | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to 30 | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | start | | | | | | | | | > 1 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | Rb | | | | | | | | | start | | | | | | | | | \ 11, MSD can be ignored.
Referring to clause 7.3.2.2 from TR 38.862, we can get the IMD order for non-
contiguous UL CA as below.
W~Gap~ = lowest band edge of n78 - highest DL band edge of n1 = 3300 -- 1880 =
1420 MHz.
Min(maxBW separation class, UL band bandwidth) = Min(600, 500) = 500 MHz.
IMD order = 2*ceil(W~Gap~ /Min(maxBW separation class, UL band bandwidth) + 1
= 7.
Since IMD order is \ 1 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | start | | | | | | | | | \ 1 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | Rb | | | | | | | | | start | | | | | | | | | \ 1 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | Rb | | | | | | | | | start | | | | | | | | | \ 1 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | start | | | | | | | | | \ 1 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | Rb | | | | | | | | | start | | | | | | | | | \ 1 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | Rb | | | | | | | | | start | | | | | | | | | \ 11, MSD can be ignored.
6.115.1.4 ∆TIB and ∆RIB values
The ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB~ have been specified in current spec.
#### 6.115.1.5 REFSENs requirements
There is no MSD exception requirement.
#### 6.115.1.6 OOB blocking exception requirements
There is no OOB blocking exception requirements
## 6.116 **CA_n3-n79**
### 6.116.1 Common for 1 band UL and 2 bands UL CA
#### 6.116.1.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.116.1.1-1: CA band combination CA_n3-n79
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **NR |** NR | **U |** Dow | **Dup | | | | | | CA | B | plink | nlink | lex** | | | | | | Band | and**| (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | Com | | b | b |** m | | | | | | binat | | and**| and** | ode**| | | | | | ion** | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+====+=======+=====+ | | | **BS |** BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | trans | rece | | | | | | | | | mit**| ive** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | ** | ** | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F~U | F~D | | | | | | | | | L_hi | L_hi | | | | | | | | | gh~**| gh~** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **CA | n3 | 1710 | -- | 1785 | 1805 | -- | 1880 | FDD | | _n3- | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | | n79** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | n79 | 4400 | -- | 5000 | 4400 | -- | 5000 | TDD | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
#### 6.116.1.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.116.1.2-1: Supported bandwidths per CA band combination CA_n3-n79
NR CA configuration Uplink CA configuration or single uplink carrier^10^ NR
Band Channel bandwidth (MHz) (NOTE 3) Bandwidth combination set
* * *
CA_n3A-n79C CA_n79C n3 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30 0 n79 CA_n79C_BCS0
#### 6.116.1.3 UE Co-existence studies
The harmonic / harmonic mixing issue have been analyzed in previous release.
Referring to clause 7.3.2.2 from TR 38.862, we can get the IMD order for
contiguous UL CA as below.
W~Gap~ = lowest band edge of n79 - highest DL band edge of n3 = 4400 -- 1880 =
2520 MHz.
Min(maxUL aggregated BW, UL band bandwidth) = Min(200, 600) = 200 MHz.
IMD order = 2*ceil(W~Gap~ /Min(maxUL aggregated BW, UL band bandwidth) \+ 1 =
27.
Since IMD order is > 11, MSD can be ignored.
#### 6.116.1.4 ∆TIB and ∆RIB values
The ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB~ have been specified in current spec.
#### 6.116.1.5 REFSENs requirements
There is no MSD exception requirement.
#### 6.116.1.6 OOB blocking exception requirements
There is no OOB blocking exception requirements
## 6.117 CA_n20-n40
### 6.117.1 Common for 1 band UL and 2 bands UL CA
#### 6.117.1.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.117.1.1-1: CA band combination of band n20 + n40
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **NR |** NR | **U |** Dow | **Dup | | | | | | CA | B | plink | nlink | lex** | | | | | | Band | and**| (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | Com | | b | b |** m | | | | | | binat | | and**| and** | ode**| | | | | | ion** | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+====+=======+=====+ | | | **BS |** BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | trans | rece | | | | | | | | | mit**| ive** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | ** | ** | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F~U | F~D | | | | | | | | | L_hi | L_hi | | | | | | | | | gh~**| gh~** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **CA\ | n20 | 832 | -- | 862 | 791 | -- | 821 | FDD | | _n20- | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | | n40** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | n40 | 2300 | -- | 2400 | 2300 | -- | 2400 | TDD | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
#### 6.117.1.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.117.1.2-1: Supported bandwidths per CA band combination of band
n20+n40
NR CA configuration Uplink CA configuration or single uplink carrier^10^ NR
Band Channel bandwidth (MHz) (NOTE 3) Bandwidth combination set
* * *
**CA_n20-n40** \- n20 5, 10, 15, 20 0 n40 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70,
80, 90, 100
NOTE 3: The SCS of each channel bandwidth for NR band refers to Table 5.3.5-1.
NOTE 10: Only single uplink carriers with power class other than PC3 are
listed.
#### 6.117.1.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.117.1.3-1/2 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics and/or
harmonics mixing occur for CA_n20-n40.
**Table 6.117.1.3-1: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic**
** ** ** ** ** ** **2^nd^ Harmonic** **3^rd^ Harmonic** **4^th^ Harmonic**
**5^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
** ** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL
High Band Edge** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL Low Band
Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL
Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** n20 832 862 791 821 1664 1724 2496 2586
3328 3448 4160 4310 n40 2300 2400 2300 2400 4600 4800 6900 7200 9200 9600
11500 12000
Based on above table, there is no harmonic interference.
**Table 6.117.1.3-2: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic mixing**
** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** **2^nd^ Harmonic** **3^rd^ Harmonic** **4^th^
Harmonic** **5^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL
High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band
Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL
Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge** n20 832 862 791 821 1582 1642 2373 2463
3164 3284 3955 4105 n40 2300 2400 2300 2400 4600 4800 6900 7200 9200 9600
11500 12000
Based on above table, the 3rd harmonic of band n20 downlink may fall into band
n40 thus there can be harmonic mixing issue for the band combination of n20
and n40.
6.117.1.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n20-n40, the ∆T~IB,c~ values from similar LB FDD + 40 TDD are re-used.
The ∆R~IB~ are re-used from DC_20_n78
Table 6.117.1.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
**CA_n20-n40** **n20** 0.3 **n40** 0.3
Table 6.117.1.4-2: ΔR~IB~
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB~ [dB]
* * *
**CA_n20-n40** **n20** 0 **n40** 0.5
#### 6.117.1.5 REFSENs requirements
The MSD due to cross band isolation are used from the similar combinations of
CA_n18-n41 and CA_n28-n40.
**Table 6.117.1.5-1: Reference sensitivity exceptions due to harmonic mixing
from a PC3 aggressor NR UL band for NR CA FR1 for either PC3 or PC2 CA**
NR Band / Channel bandwidth of the affected DL band |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
UL band | DL band | 5 MHz (dB) | 10 MHz (dB) | 15 MHz (dB) | 20 MHz (dB) | 25 MHz (dB) | 30 MHz(dB) | 40 MHz (dB) | 50 MHz (dB) | 60 MHz (dB) | 70 MHz(dB) | 80 MHz (dB) | 90 MHz (dB) | 100 MHz (dB)  
n40 | n204 | 27.8 | 24.8 | 23 | 20.3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE 4: The requirements should be verified for UL NR-ARFCN of the aggressor (higher) band (superscript HB) such that in MHz and with the carrier frequency in the victim (lower) band and the channel bandwidth configured in the higher band. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 6.117.1.5-2: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity exceptions
due to receiver harmonic mixing for CA in NR FR1
NR Band / SCS / Channel bandwidth of the affected DL band |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
UL band | DL band | SCS (kHz) | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 25 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz | 50 MHz | 60 MHz | 70 MHz | 80 MHz | 90 MHz | 100 MHz  
n40 | n20 | 15 | 25 | 50 | 75 | 100 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
#### 6.117.1.6 OOB blocking exception requirements
CA_n20-n40 is similar to CA_n28-n40, where there is no OOB blocking exception
## 6.118 CA_n38-n40
### 6.118.1 Common for 1 band UL and 2 bands UL CA
#### 6.118.1.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.118.1.1-1: CA band combination of band n38 + n40
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **NR |** NR | **U |** Dow | **Dup | | | | | | CA | B | plink | nlink | lex** | | | | | | Band | and**| (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | Com | | b | b |** m | | | | | | binat | | and**| and** | ode**| | | | | | ion** | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+====+=======+=====+ | | | **BS |** BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | trans | rece | | | | | | | | | mit**| ive** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | ** | ** | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F~U | F~D | | | | | | | | | L_hi | L_hi | | | | | | | | | gh~**| gh~** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **CA\ | n38 | 2570 | -- | 2620 | 2570 | -- | 2620 | TDD | | _n38- | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | | n40** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | n40 | 2300 | -- | 2400 | 2300 | -- | 2400 | TDD | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
Table 6.118.1.1-2: Inter-band CA operating bands involving FR1 (two bands)
+-------------------------+---------------+-------------------------+ | NR CA Band | NR Band | DL interruption allowed | | | | (Note 8) | | | (Table 5.2-1) | | +=========================+===============+=========================+ | CA_n38-n40^9^ | n38, n40 | | +-------------------------+---------------+-------------------------+ | NOTE 9: Only applicable | | | | for UE supporting | | | | inter-band carrier | | | | aggregation without | | | | simultaneous Rx/Tx. | | | +-------------------------+---------------+-------------------------+
#### 6.118.1.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.118.1.2-1: Supported bandwidths per CA band combination of band
n38+n40
NR CA configuration Uplink CA configuration or single uplink carrier^10^ NR
Band Channel bandwidth (MHz) (NOTE 3) Bandwidth combination set
* * *
CA_n38-n40 - n38 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 40 0 n40 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 40, 50,
60, 70, 80, 90, 100
NOTE 3: The SCS of each channel bandwidth for NR band refers to Table 5.3.5-1.
NOTE 10: Only single uplink carriers with power class other than PC3 are
listed.
#### 6.118.1.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.118.1.3-1/2 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics and/or
harmonics mixing occur for CA_n38-n40.
**Table 6.118.1.3-1: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic**
** ** ** ** ** ** **2^nd^ Harmonic** **3^rd^ Harmonic** **4^th^ Harmonic**
**5^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
** ** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL
High Band Edge** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL Low Band
Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL
Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** n38 2570 2620 2570 2620 5140 5240 7710
7860 10280 10480 12850 13100 n40 2300 2400 2300 2400 4600 4800 6900 7200 9200
9600 11500 12000
Based on above table, there is no harmonic interference.
**Table 6.118.1.3-2: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic mixing**
** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** **2^nd^ Harmonic** **3^rd^ Harmonic** **4^th^
Harmonic** **5^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL
High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band
Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL
Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge** n38 2570 2620 2570 2620 5140 5240 7710
7860 10280 10480 12850 13100 n40 2300 2400 2300 2400 4600 4800 6900 7200 9200
9600 11500 12000
Based on above table, there is no harmonics mixing issue for CA_n38-n40.
#### 6.118.1.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n38-n40, the ΔT~IB,c~ values from CA_n40-n41 are reused. There is no
ΔR~IB~ entry same as for CA_n40-n41.
Table 6.118.1.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
**CA_n38-n40** **n38** 0.5^3^ **n40** 0.5^3^ NOTE 3: Applicable for UE
supporting inter-band carrier aggregation without simultaneous Rx/Tx.
**Table 6.118.1.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB~,c [dB]**
* * *
CA_n38-n40 n38 0 n40 0
#### 6.118.1.5 REFSENs requirements
There is no REFSENS exceptions needed.
#### 6.118.1.6 OOB blocking exception requirements
There is no OOB exception for the CA combination.
## 6.119 CA_n8-n38
### 6.119.1 Common for 1 band UL and 2 bands UL CA
#### 6.119.1.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.119.1.1-1: CA band combination of band n8 + n38
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **NR |** NR | **U |** Dow | **Dup | | | | | | CA | B | plink | nlink | lex** | | | | | | Band | and**| (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | Com | | b | b |** m | | | | | | binat | | and**| and** | ode**| | | | | | ion** | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+====+=======+=====+ | | | **BS |** BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | trans | rece | | | | | | | | | mit**| ive** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | ** | ** | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F~U | F~D | | | | | | | | | L_hi | L_hi | | | | | | | | | gh~**| gh~** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **CA | n8 | 880 | -- | 915 | 925 | -- | 960 | FDD | | _n8- | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | | n38** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | n38 | 2570 | -- | 2620 | 2570 | -- | 2620 | TDD | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
#### 6.119.1.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.119.1.2-1: Supported bandwidths per CA band combination of band n8+n38
+--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+ | NR CA | Uplink CA | NR Band | Channel | Bandwidth | | c | c | | bandwidth | combination | | onfiguration | onfiguration | | (MHz) (NOTE | set | | | or single | | 3) | | | | uplink | | | | | | carrier^10^ | | | | +==============+==============+=========+==============+==============+ | ** | - | n8 | 5, 10, 15, | 0 | | CA_n8-n38** | | | 20 | | +--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+ | | | n38 | 5, 10, 15, | | | | | | 20, 25, 30, | | | | | | 40 | | +--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 3: The | | | | | | SCS of each | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | for NR band | | | | | | refers to | | | | | | Table | | | | | | 5.3.5-1. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 10: | | | | | | Only single | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | carriers | | | | | | with power | | | | | | class other | | | | | | than PC3 are | | | | | | listed. | | | | | +--------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
#### 6.119.1.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.119.1.3-1/2 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics and/or
harmonics mixing occur for CA_n8-n38.
**Table 6.119.1.3-1: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic**
** ** ** ** ** ** **2^nd^ Harmonic** **3^rd^ Harmonic** **4^th^ Harmonic**
**5^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
** ** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL
High Band Edge** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL Low Band
Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL
Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** n8 880 915 925 960 1760 1830 2640 2745
3520 3660 4400 4575 n38 2570 2620 2570 2620 5140 5240 7710 7860 10280 10480
12850 13100
Based on above table, there is no harmonic interference.
**Table 6.119.1.3-2: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic mixing**
** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** **2^nd^ Harmonic** **3^rd^ Harmonic** **4^th^
Harmonic** **5^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL
High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band
Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL
Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge** n8 880 915 925 960 1850 1920 2775 2880
3700 3840 4625 4800 n38 2570 2620 2570 2620 5140 5240 7710 7860 10280 10480
12850 13100
Based on above table, there is no harmonics mixing issue for CA_n8-n38.
#### 6.119.1.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n8-n38, the ΔT~IB,c~ values from CA_n8-n41 are reused.
Table 6.119.1.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
**CA_n8-n38** **n8** 0.6 **n38** 0.3
**Table 6.119.1.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB~,c [dB]**
* * *
CA_n8-n38 n8 0 n38 0
#### 6.119.1.5 REFSENs requirements
There is no REFSENS exceptions needed.
#### 6.119.1.6 OOB blocking exception requirements
There is no OOB exception for the CA combination.
## 6.120 CA_n7-n40
### 6.120.1 Common for 1 band UL and 2 bands UL CA
#### 6.120.1.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.120.1.1-1: CA band combination of band n7 + n40
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **NR |** NR | **U |** Dow | **Dup | | | | | | CA | B | plink | nlink | lex** | | | | | | Band | and**| (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | Com | | b | b |** m | | | | | | binat | | and**| and** | ode**| | | | | | ion** | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+====+=======+=====+ | | | **BS |** BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | trans | rece | | | | | | | | | mit**| ive** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | ** | ** | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F~U | F~D | | | | | | | | | L_hi | L_hi | | | | | | | | | gh~**| gh~** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **CA | n7 | 2500 | -- | 2570 | 2620 | -- | 2690 | FDD | | _n7- | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | | n40** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | n40 | 2300 | -- | 2400 | 2300 | -- | 2400 | TDD | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
NR CA_n7-n40 differs from ENDC CA_7-n40 already defined with the wider
available channel bandwidths for n40A.
#### 6.120.1.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.120.1.2-1: Supported bandwidths per CA band combination of band n7+n40
* * *
**CA operating/channel bandwidth [MHz]**
* * *
**NR CA configuration** **Uplink CA\** NR Band**** 5\ **10\** 15\ **20\** 25
MHz**** 30\ **40\** 50\ **60\** 70\ **80 MHz** **90 MHz** **100 MHz**
**Bandwidth combination set** configuration**MHz** MHz**MHz** MHz**MHz**
MHz**MHz** MHz**MHz**
CA_n7A-n40A CA_n7A-n40A n7 5 10 15 20 25 30 40 50 0
                                                                 n40           5       10      15      20      25           30      40      50      60      70      80           90           100
* * *
#### 6.120.1.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.120.1.3-1/2 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics and/or
harmonics mixing occur for CA_n7-n40.
**Table 6.120.1.3-1: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic**
** ** ** ** ** ** **2^nd^ Harmonic** **3^rd^ Harmonic** **4^th^ Harmonic**
**5^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
** ** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL
High Band Edge** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL Low Band
Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL
Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** n7 2500 2570 2620 2690 5000 5140 7500
7710 10000 10280 12500 12850 n40 2300 2400 2300 2400 4600 4800 6900 7200 9200
9600 11500 12000
Based on above table, there is no harmonic interference.
**Table 6.120.1.3-2: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic mixing**
** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** **2^nd^ Harmonic** **3^rd^ Harmonic** **4^th^
Harmonic** **5^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL
High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band
Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL
Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge** n7 2500 2570 2620 2690 5240 5380 7860
8070 10480 10760 13100 13450 n40 2300 2400 2300 2400 4600 4800 6900 7200 9200
9600 11500 12000
Based on above table, there is no harmonic issue for CA_n7-n40.
#### 6.120.1.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n7-n40, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB~ values from **DC_7_n40** are re-used.
Table 6.120.1.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
**CA_n7-n40** **n7** 0.5 **n40** 0.6
Table 6.120.1.4-2: ΔR~IB~
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB~ [dB]
* * *
**CA_n7-n40** **n7** 0 **n40** 0.5
#### 6.120.1.5 REFSENs requirements
Due to the small separation between these two operational bands of 100MHz
there's a need for cross band isolation exception. The same cross band
requirements as used in the EN/DC configuration (DC_7_n40) are applied. For
n40 towards n7 the MSD from n97-n41 which is for the same ACLR2 issue with
100MHz n40 in n7 DL is used.
Table 7.3A.6-1: Reference sensitivity exceptions (MSD) due to cross band
isolation from a PC3 aggressor NR UL band for NR CA FR1
NR Band / Channel bandwidth of the affected DL band |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
UL band | DL band | 5 MHz (dB) | 10 MHz (dB) | 15 MHz (dB) | 20 MHz (dB) | 25 MHz (dB) | 30 MHz(dB) | 40 MHz (dB) | 50 MHz (dB) | 60 MHz (dB) | 70 MHz(dB) | 80 MHz (dB) | 90 MHz (dB) | 100 MHz (dB)  
n7 | n40 | 3.7 | 3.4 | 3.2 | 3.1 | 3.1 | 3.1 | 3.1 | 3.1 | 3.1 | 3.1 | 3.1 | 3.1 | 3.1  
n40 | n7 | [21.9] | [20.7] | [18.9] | [17.7] | [16.7] | [15.8] | [14.5] | [13.5] |  |  |  |  |   
Table 7.3A.6.2: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity exceptions due
to cross band isolation for NR CA FR1
NR Band / SCS / Channel bandwidth of the affected DL band |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
UL band | DL band | SCS of UL band (kHz) | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 25 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz | 50 MHz | 60 MHz | 70 MHz | 80 MHz | 90 MHz | 100 MHz  
n7 | n40 | 15 | 25 | 50 | 75 | 75 | 75 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100  
n40 | n7 | 30 | 270 | 270 | 270 | 270 | 270 | 270 | 270 | 270 |  |  |  |  |   
#### 6.120.1.6 OOB blocking exception requirements
There is no OOB exception for the CA combination.
### 6.120.2 Specific for 2 bands UL CA
#### 6.120.2.1 Maximum output power for inter-band CA
**Table 6.120.2.1-1: UE Power Class for uplink inter-band CA**
Uplink CA Configuration Class 3 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
CA_n7A-n40A 23 +2/-3^2^ NOTE 2: 2 refers to the transmission bandwidths
confined within F~UL_low~ and F~UL_low~ + 4 MHz or F~UL_high~ -- 4 MHz and
F~UL_high~, the maximum output power requirement is relaxed by reducing the
lower tolerance limit by 1.5 dB
#### 6.120.2.2 UE co-existence
Table 6.120.2.2-1 gives IMD interference analysis for CA_ n7-n40 with 2 ULs.
**Table 6.120.2.2-1: Harmonic and IMD analysis**
**UE UL carriers** **fx_low** **fx_high** **fy_low** **fy_high**
* * *
UL Frequency [MHz] 2500 2570 2300 2400 DL Frequency [MHz] 2620 2690 2300 2400
2nd order IMD products \|fy_low -- fx_high\| \|fy_high -- fx_low\| \|fy_low +
fx_low\| \|fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 270 100 4800 4970
3rd order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- fy_high\| \|2*fx_high -- fy_low\|
\|2*fy_low -- fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz)
2600 2840 2030 2300 3rd order IMD products \|2*fx_low + fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +
fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 7300 7540 7100 7370 Two-tone 4th order IMD products \|3*fx_low --1*
fy_high\| \|3*fx_high -- 1*fy_low\| \|3*fy_low -- 1*fx_high\| \|3*fy_high --
1*fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 5100 5410 4330 4700 Two-tone 4th order
IMD products \|2*fx_low --2* fy_high\| \|2*fx_high --2* fy_low\| \|2*fx_low
+2* fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +2* fy_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 200 540 9600
9940 Two-tone 4th order IMD products \|3*fx_low +1* fy_low\| \|3*fx_high +
1*fy_high\| \|3*fy_low + 1*fx_low\| \|3*fy_high + 1*fx_high\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 9800 10110 9400 9770 Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|fx_low --
4*fy_high\| \|fx_high -- 4*fy_low\| \|fy_low -- 4*fx_high\| \|fy_high --
4*fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 7100 6630 7980 7600 Two-tone 5th order
IMD products \|2*fx_low - 3*fy_high\| \|2*fx_high - 3*fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -
3*fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -3*fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 2200 1760 3110
2700 Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|fx_low + 4*fy_low\| \|fx_high +
4*fy_high\| \|fy_low + 4*fx_low\| \|fy_high + 4*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 11700 12170 12300 12680 Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|2*fx_low +
3*fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + 3*fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + 3*fx_low\| \|2*fy_high +
3*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 11900 12340 12100 12510
Based on the table 6.120.2.2-1, there is 3^rd^ order IMD issue for CA_n7-n40.
Table 6.120.2.2-2 lists the protected bands required for the 2UL bands CA
configuration are re-used from DC_7_n40.
**Table 6.120.2.2-2: Protected bands for the 2UL bands CA configuration**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | NR CA | Spu | | | | | | | | Con | rious | | | | | | | | figur | emi | | | | | | | | ation | ssion | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+===+=======+ | | Prot | Freq | Ma | MBW | NOTE | | | | | ected | uency | ximum | (MHz) | | | | | | band | range | Level | | | | | | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | CA_n | E | FDL | - | FDL\ | -50 | 1 | | | 7-n40 | -UTRA | _low | | _high | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 50, | | | | | | | | | 51, | | | | | | | | | 52, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 67, | | | | | | | | | 68, | | | | | | | | | 72, | | | | | | | | | 74, | | | | | | | | | 75, | | | | | | | | | 76, | | | | | | | | | 77, | | | | | | | | | 78 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 2570 | - | 2575 | +1.6 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 2575 | - | 2595 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2620 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 15: | | | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | anges | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | FOOB | | | | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.5. | | | | | | | | | 3.1-1 | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idth. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 21: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | any | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2500 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2570 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | stric | | | | | | | | | tion: | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 560.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 562.5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2552 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2560 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to 54 | | | | | | | | | RB. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 26: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | adj | | | | | | | | | acent | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | ands, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | could | | | | | | | | | imply | | | | | | | | | risk | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmful | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | terfe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | UE(s) | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | | nd.if | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (MBW) | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ov | | | | | | | | | erall | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | | rval. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+
#### 6.120.2.3 REFSENS requirements
Table 6.120.2.3-1 lists the MSD required due to the 3^rd^ IMD for the dual
uplink configuration. The MSD value is reused from DC_7_n40.
Table 6.120.2.3-1: MSD due to IMD issue
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | Oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | uplex | | | | | | | | | mode | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+======+=======+ | NR CA | NR | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | D | | | band | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | (dB) | uplex | | Con | | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | | mode | | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | CA | n7 | 2510 | 5 | 25 | 2630 | 23 | IMD3 | | _n7A | | | | | | | | | -n40A | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | | n40 | 2390 | 5 | 25 | 2390 | N/A | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+
# 7 Both bands within FR2 Carrier Aggregation: Specific Band Combination Part
_\ _
# 8 FR1+FR2 Carrier Aggregation: Specific Band Combination Part
## 8.1 CA_n41-n257
### 8.1.1 Common for 1 band UL and 2 bands UL CA
#### 8.1.1.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 8.1.1.1-1: CA band combination of band n41+n257
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NR | U | Dow | D | | | | | | Band | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | | (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | | band | band | mode | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | tra | re | | | | | | | | nsmit | ceive | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | n41 | * | * | * | * | * | * | ** | | | _2496 |_ \--**|_2690 |_ 2496 | *--** | _2690 | TDD_ _| | | MHz_ _| | MHz_ _| MHz_ _| | MHz_ _| | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | n257 | ** | * | ** | ** | * | ** | ** | | | 26500 |_ \--**| 29500 | 26500 | *--** | 29500 | TDD**| | | MHz** | | MHz**| MHz** | | MHz** | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
#### 8.1.1.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 8.1.1.2-1: Supported bandwidths per CA band combination of band n41+n257
_\ _
NR CA configuration Uplink CA configuration NR Band Channel bandwidth (MHz)
(NOTE 3) Bandwidth combination set
* * *
                                                                                                   5                                                                            10                          15   20   25   30   40   50   60   70   80   90   100   200   400
CA_n41A-n257A CA_n41A-n257A n41 10 15 20 30 40 50 60 80 90 100 0 n257 50 100
200 400  
CA_n41A-n257G CA_n41A-n257A, CA_n41A-n257G n41 10 15 20 30 40 50 60 80 90 100
0 n257 See CA_n257G Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS
38.101-2  
CA_n41A-n257H CA_n41A-n257A, CA_n41A-n257G, CA_n41A-n257H n41 10 15 20 30 40
50 60 80 90 100 0 n257 See CA_n257H Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table
5.5A.1-1 in TS 38.101-2  
CA_n41A-n257I CA_n41A-n257A, CA_n41A-n257G, CA_n41A-n257H, CA_n41A-n257I n41
10 15 20 30 40 50 60 80 90 100 0 n257 See CA_n257I Bandwidth Combination Set 0
in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS 38.101-2
#### 8.1.1.3 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
Assuming separate antenna architecture between FR1 and FR2, ∆T~IB,c~ and
∆R~IB~ values for this CA configuration are given in the tables below.
Table 8.1.1.3-1: ΔT~IB,c~
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
CA_n41-n257 n41 0 n257 0
Table 8.1.1.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
CA_n41-n257 n41 0 n257 0
#### 8.1.1.4 REFSENS requirements
No IMD issues are expected in this CA configuration as these are TDD bands.
These TDD bands do not transmit and receive simultaneously.
## 8.2 CA_n3-n258
### 8.2.1 Common for 1 band UL and 2 bands DL CA
#### 8.2.1.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 8.2.1-1: CA band combination of band n3 + n258
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **NR |** NR | **U |** Dow | **Dup | | | | | | CA | B | plink | nlink | lex** | | | | | | Band | and**| (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | Com | | b | b |** m | | | | | | binat | | and**| and** | ode**| | | | | | ion** | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+====+=======+=====+ | | | **BS |** BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | trans | rece | | | | | | | | | mit**| ive** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | ** | ** | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F~U | F~D | | | | | | | | | L_hi | L_hi | | | | | | | | | gh~**| gh~** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **CA\ | n3 | 1710 | -- | 1785 | 1805 | -- | 1880 | FDD | | _n3-n | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | | 258** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | n258 | 24250 | -- | 27500 | 24250 | -- | 27500 | TDD | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
#### 8.2.1.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 8.2.2-1: Supported bandwidths per CA band combination of band n3+n258
NR CA configuration | Uplink CA configuration | NR Band | SCS (kHz) | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 25 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz | 50 MHz | 60 MHz | 80 MHz | 90 MHz | 100 MHz | 200 MHz | 400 MHz | Bandwidth combination set  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**CA_n3A-n258A** | **CA_n3A-n258A** | n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n258 | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |   
|  |  | 120 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
**CA_n3A-n258B** | **CA_n3A-n258A** **CA_n3A-n258B** | **n3** | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **n258** | **CA_n258B** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
**CA_n3A-n258C** | **CA_n3A-n258A** **CA_n3A-n258B** **CA_n3A-n258C** | **n3** | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **n258** | **CA_n258C** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
**CA_n3A-n258D** | **CA_n3A-n258A** **CA_n3A-n258D** | **n3** | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **n258** | **CA_n258D** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
**CA_n3A-n258E** | **CA_n3A-n258A** **CA_n3A-n258D** **CA_n3A-n258E** | **n3** | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **n258** | **CA_n258E** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
**CA_n3A-n258F** | **CA_n3A-n258A** **CA_n3A-n258D** **CA_n3A-n258E** **CA_n3A-n258F** | **n3** | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **n258** | **CA_n258F** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
**CA_n3A-n258G** | **CA_n3A-n258A** **CA_n3A-n258G** | **n3** | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **n258** | **CA_n258G** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
**CA_n3A-n258H** | **CA_n3A-n258A** **CA_n3A-n258G** **CA_n3A-n258H** | **n3** | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **n258** | **CA_n258H** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
**CA_n3A-n258I** | **CA_n3A-n258A** **CA_n3A-n258G** **CA_n3A-n258H** **CA_n3A-n258I** | **n3** | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **n258** | **CA_n258I** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
**CA_n3A-n258J** | **CA_n3A-n258A** **CA_n3A-n258G** **CA_n3A-n258H** **CA_n3A-n258I** | **n3** | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **n258** | **CA_n258J** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
**CA_n3A-n258K** | **CA_n3A-n258A** **CA_n3A-n258G** **CA_n3A-n258H** **CA_n3A-n258I** | **n3** | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **n258** | **CA_n258K** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
**CA_n3A-n258L** | **CA_n3A-n258A** **CA_n3A-n258G** **CA_n3A-n258H** **CA_n3A-n258I** | **n3** | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **n258** | **CA_n258L** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
**CA_n3A-n258M** | **CA_n3A-n258A** **CA_n3A-n258G** **CA_n3A-n258H** **CA_n3A-n258I** | **n3** | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **n258** | **CA_n258M** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
#### 8.2.1.3 Co-existence studies
Table 8.2.3-1 gives the UL 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 4^th^, 5^th^, 6^th^, 7^th^ harmonic
for CA_n3A-n258A. As can ben there are no harmonic produced by UL that may
fall into own DL
Table 8.2.1.3-1: Band n3 and Band n258 UL harmonics products
**UE UL carriers** **fx_low** **fx_high** **fy_low** **fy_high**
* * *
UL frequency(MHz) 1710 1785 24250 27500 2nd harmonics frequency limits
2*fx_low 2*fx_high 2*fy_low 2*fy_high 2nd harmonics frequency limits(MHz) 3420
3570 48500 55000 3rd harmonics frequency limits 3*fx_low 3*fx_high 3*fy_low
3*fy_high 3rd harmonics frequency limits(MHz) 5130 5355 72750 82500 4th
harmonics frequency limits 4*fx_low 4*fx_high 4*fy_low 4*fy_high 4th harmonics
frequency limits(MHz) 6840 7140 97000 110000 5th harmonics frequency limits
5*fx_low 5*fx_high 5*fy_low 5*fy_high 5th harmonics frequency limits(MHz) 8550
8925 121250 137500 6th harmonics frequency limits 6*fx_low 6*fx_high 6*fy_low
6*fy_high 6th harmonics frequency limits(MHz) 10260 10710 145500 165000 7th
harmonics frequency limits 7*fx_low 7*fx_high 7*fy_low 7*fy_high 7th harmonics
frequency limits(MHz) 11970 12495 169750 192500
#### 8.2.1.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n3A-n258A, the T~IB,c~ and R~IB~ values are given in the tables below.
Table 8.2.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
**CA_n3-n258** **n3** **0** **n258** **0**
Table 8.2.4-2: ΔR~IB~
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA and NR Band ΔR~IB~ [dB]
* * *
**CA_n3-n258** **n3** **0** **n258** **0**
#### 8.2.1.5 REFSENS requirements
There is no specific REFSENS requirement.
### 8.2.2 Specific for 2 bands UL CA
#### 8.2.2.1 UE co-existence studies
Table 8.2.2.1-1 lists Band n3 + Band n258 2UL bands CA 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 4^th^ and
5^th^ order IMD for the UE-to-UE coexistence analysis.
**Table 8.2.2.1-1: Band n3 and Band n258 UL IMD products**
**UE UL carriers** **fx_low** **fx_high** **fy_low** **fy_high**
* * *
2nd order IMD products \|fy_high -- fx_low\| \|fy_low -- fx_high\| \|fy_low +
fx_low\| \|fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 25790 22465 25960
29285 3rd order IMD products \|fy_high -- 2*fx_low\| \|fy_low -- 2*fx_high\|
\|2*fy_low -- fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz)
24080 20680 46715 53290 3rd order IMD products \|2*fx_low + fy_low\|
\|2*fx_high + fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD
frequency limits (MHz) 27670 31070 50210 56785 Two-tone 4th order IMD products
\|2*fx_low --2* fy_high\| \|2*fx_high -- 2*fy_low\| \|2*fx_low +2* fy_low\|
\|2*fx_high +2* fy_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 51580 44930 51920 58570
Two-tone 4th order IMD products \|3*fx_low --1* fy_high\| \|3*fx_high --
1*fy_low\| \|3*fy_low -- 1*fx_high\| \|3*fy_high -- 1*fx_low\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 22370 18895 70965 80790 Two-tone 4th order IMD products
\|3*fx_low +1* fy_low\| \|3*fx_high +1* fy_high\| \|3*fy_low + 1*fx_low\|
\|3*fy_high + 1*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 29380 32855 74460 84285
Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|fx_low -- 4*fy_high\| \|fx_high --
4*fy_low\| \|fy_low -- 4*fx_high\| \|fy_high -- 4*fx_low\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 108290 95215 17110 20660 Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|fx_low
+ 4*fy_low\| \|fx_high + 4*fy_high\| \|fy_low + 4*fx_low\| \|fy_high +
4*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 98710 111785 31090 34640 Two-tone 5th
order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- 3*fy_high\| \|2*fx_high -- 3*fy_low\|
\|2*fy_low -- 3*fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- 3*fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz)
79080 69180 43145 49870 Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|2*fx_low +
3*fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + 3*fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + 3*fx_low\| \|2*fy_high +
3*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 76170 86070 53630 60355
Based on Table 8.2.2.1-1 there are no IMD issues affecting own Rx frequencies.
#### 8.2.2.2 REFSENS requirements
Based on the co-existence studies in 8.2.2.1, there is no need to define MSD
for CA_n3-n258.
# 9 2 bands Dual Connectivity: Specific Band Combination Part
## 9.X DC_nX-nY
_\ _
### 9.x.1 Operating bands for DC_nX-nY
**Table 9.X.1-1:_Inter-band NR DC operating bands_ within FR1**
**NR DC Band** **NR Band**
* * *
DC_nX-nY nX, nY
**Table 9.X.1-2:_Inter-band NR DC operating bands_ for FR1+FR2**
**NR DC Band** **NR Band**
* * *
DC_nX-nY nX, nY
### 9.x.2 Configurations for DC_nX-nY
Table 9.x.2-1: Inter-band NR DC configurations **within FR1**
+---------------+---------------+ | NR DC | Uplink NR DC | | | | | configuration | configuration | +===============+===============+ | DC_nXA-nYA | DC_nXA-nYA | +---------------+---------------+
Table 9.x.2-2: Inter-band NR DC configurations **for FR1+FR2**
+---------------+---------------+ | NR DC | Uplink NR DC | | | | | configuration | configuration | +===============+===============+ | DC_nXA-nYA | DC_nXA-nYA | +---------------+---------------+
### 9.x.3 Maximum output power for NR-DC
_\ _
**Table 9.x.3-1: UE Power Class for uplink inter-band CA**
Uplink CA Configuration Class 3 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
DC_nXA-nYA 23 +x/-y^1^ NOTE 1: refers to the transmission bandwidths confined
within F~UL_low~ and F~UL_low~ + 4 MHz or F~UL_high~ -- 4 MHz and F~UL_high~,
the maximum output power requirement is relaxed by reducing the lower
tolerance limit by 1.5 dB
## 9.1 DC_n5-n48
### 9.1.1 Operating bands for DC_n5-n48
**Table 9.1.1-1:_Inter-band NR DC operating bands_**
**NR DC Band** **NR Band**
* * *
DC_n5-n48 N5, n48
### 9.1.2 Configurations for DC_n5-n48
**Table 9.1.2-1:_Inter-band NR DC configurations_**
+-------------------+-------------------+ | **NR DC** | **Uplink NR DC** | | | | | **configuration** | **configuration** | +===================+===================+ | DC_n5A-n48A | DC_n5A-n48A | +-------------------+-------------------+ | DC_n5A-n48(2A) | DC_n5A-n48A | +-------------------+-------------------+ | DC_n5A-n48C | DC_n5A-n48A | +-------------------+-------------------+
## 9.2 DC_n41-n257
### 9.2.1 Operating bands for DC_n41-n257
**Table 9.2.1-2:_Inter-band NR DC operating bands_ for FR1+FR2**
**NR DC Band** **NR Band**
* * *
DC_n41-n257 n41, n257
### 9.2.2 Configurations for DC_n41-n257
Table 9.2.2-2: Inter-band NR DC configurations **for FR1+FR2**
+----------------+----------------+ | NR DC | Uplink NR DC | | | | | configuration | configuration | +================+================+ | DC_n41A-n257A | DC_n41A-n257A | | | | | DC_n41A-n257G | DC_n41A-n257G | | | | | DC_n41A-n257H | DC_n41A-n257H | | | | | DC_n41A-n257I | DC_n41A-n257I | +----------------+----------------+
## 9.3 DC_n48-n71
### 9.3.1 Operating bands for DC_n48-n71
**Table 9.3.1-2:_Inter-band NR DC operating bands_**
**NR DC Band** **NR Band**
* * *
DC_n48-n71 n48, n71
### 9.3.2 Configurations for DC_n48-n71
Table 9.3.2-2: Inter-band NR DC configurations
+---------------------+---------------+ | NR DC | Uplink NR DC | | | | | configuration | configuration | +=====================+===============+ | DC_n48A-n71A | DC_n48A-n71A | | | | | DC_n48A-n71(2A) | | | | | | DC_n48(2A)-n71A | | | | | | DC_n48(2A)-n71(2A) | | | | | | DC_n48(3A)-n71A | | | | | | DC_n48(4A)-n71A | | | | | | DC_n48B-n71A | | | | | | DC_n48B-n71(2A) | | | | | | DC_n48C-n71A | | +---------------------+---------------+
### 9.3.3 Maximum output power for NR-DC
**Table 9.3.3-1: UE Power Class for uplink inter-band CA**
Uplink CA Configuration Class 3 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
DC_n48A-n71A 23 +2/-3^1^ NOTE 1: refers to the transmission bandwidths
confined within F~UL_low~ and F~UL_low~ + 4 MHz or F~UL_high~ -- 4 MHz and
F~UL_high~, the maximum output power requirement is relaxed by reducing the
lower tolerance limit by 1.5 dB
## 9.4 DC_n48-n66
### 9.4.1 Operating bands for DC_n48-n66
**Table 9.4.1-1: Inter-band NR DC operating bands**
**NR DC Band** **NR Band**
* * *
DC_n48-n66 n48, n66
### 9.4.2 Configurations for DC_n48-n66
**Table 9.4.2-1: Inter-band NR DC configurations**
+---------------------+-------------------+ | **NR DC** | **Uplink NR DC** | | | | | **configuration** | **configuration** | +=====================+===================+ | DC_n48A-n66A | DC_n48A-n66A | +---------------------+-------------------+ | DC_n48(2A)-n66A | DC_n48A-n66A | +---------------------+-------------------+ | DC_n48A-n66(2A) | DC_n48A-n66A | +---------------------+-------------------+ | DC_n48(2A)-n66(2A) | DC_n48A-n66A | +---------------------+-------------------+ | DC_n48B-n66A | DC_n48A-n66A | +---------------------+-------------------+ | DC_n48B-n66(2A) | DC_n48A-n66A | +---------------------+-------------------+
### 9.4.3 Maximum output power for NR-DC
**Table 9.4.3-1: UE Power Class for uplink inter-band CA**
Uplink CA Configuration Class 3 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
DC_n48A-n66A 23 +2/-3^1^ NOTE 1: refers to the transmission bandwidths
confined within F~UL_low~ and F~UL_low~ + 4 MHz or F~UL_high~ -- 4 MHz and
F~UL_high~, the maximum output power requirement is relaxed by reducing the
lower tolerance limit by 1.5 dB
## 9.5 DC_n48-n70
### 9.5.1 Operating bands for DC_n48-n70
**Table 9.5.1-1: Inter-band NR DC operating bands**
**NR DC Band** **NR Band**
* * *
DC_n48-n70 n48, n70
### 9.5.2 Configurations for DC_n48-n70
**Table 9.5.2-1: Inter-band NR DC configurations**
+-------------------+-------------------+ | **NR DC** | **Uplink NR DC** | | | | | **Configuration** | **configuration** | +===================+===================+ | DC_n48A-n70A | DC_n48A-n70A | +-------------------+-------------------+ | DC_n48(2A)-n70A | DC_n48A-n70A | +-------------------+-------------------+ | DC_n48B-n70A | DC_n48A-n70A | +-------------------+-------------------+
### 9.5.3 Maximum output power for NR-DC
**Table 9.5.3-1: UE Power Class for uplink inter-band CA**
Uplink CA Configuration Class 3 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
DC_n48A-n70A 23 +2/-3^1^ NOTE 1: refers to the transmission bandwidths
confined within F~UL_low~ and F~UL_low~ + 4 MHz or F~UL_high~ -- 4 MHz and
F~UL_high~, the maximum output power requirement is relaxed by reducing the
lower tolerance limit by 1.5 dB
## **9.6 DC_n46-n78**
### 9.6.1 Operating bands for DC_n46-n78
**Table 9.6.1-1:_Inter-band NR DC operating bands_**
**NR DC Band** **NR Band**
* * *
DC_n46-n78 n46, n78
### 9.6.2 Configurations for DC_n46-n78
**Table 9.6.2-1:_Inter-band NR DC configurations_**
+-------------------+-------------------+ | **NR DC** | **Uplink NR DC** | | | | | **configuration** | **configuration** | +===================+===================+ | DC_n46A-n78A | DC_n46A-n78A | | | | | DC_n46C-n78A | | | | | | DC_n46D-n78A | | +-------------------+-------------------+
### 9.6.3 Maximum output power for NR-DC
**Table 9.6.3-1: UE Power Class for uplink inter-band DC**
Uplink DC Configuration Class 3 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
DC_n46A-n78A 23 +2/-3^1^ NOTE 1: refers to the transmission bandwidths
confined within F~UL_low~ and F~UL_low~ + 4 MHz or F~UL_high~ -- 4 MHz and
F~UL_high~, the maximum output power requirement is relaxed by reducing the
lower tolerance limit by 1.5 dB
## **9.7 DC_n28-n46**
### 9.7.1 Operating bands for DC_n28-n46
**Table 9.7.1-1:_Inter-band NR DC operating bands_**
**NR DC Band** **NR Band**
* * *
DC_n28-n46 n28, n46
### 9.7.2 Configurations for DC_n28-n46
**Table 9.7.2-1:_Inter-band NR DC configurations_**
+-------------------+-------------------+ | **NR DC** | **Uplink NR DC** | | | | | **configuration** | **configuration** | +===================+===================+ | DC_n28A-n46A | DC_n28A-n46A | | | | | DC_n28A-n46C | | | | | | DC_n28A-n46D | | +-------------------+-------------------+
### 9.7.3 Maximum output power for NR-DC
**Table 9.7.3-1: UE Power Class for uplink inter-band DC**
Uplink DC Configuration Class 3 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
DC_n28A-n46A 23 +2/-3^1^ NOTE 1: refers to the transmission bandwidths
confined within F~UL_low~ and F~UL_low~ + 4 MHz or F~UL_high~ -- 4 MHz and
F~UL_high~, the maximum output power requirement is relaxed by reducing the
lower tolerance limit by 1.5 dB
## 9.8 **DC_n48-n96**
### 9.8.1 Operating bands for DC n48-n96
Table 9.8.1-1: **_Inter-band NR DC operating bands_ within FR1**
**NR DC Band** **NR Band**
* * *
DC_n48-n96^9^ n48, n96 NOTE 9: Only applicable for UE supporting inter-band
carrier aggregation without simultaneous Rx/Tx.
### 9.8.2 Configurations for DC_n48-n96
**Table 9.8.2-1: Inter-band NR DC configurations within FR1**
+----------------------------------------------------+----------------+ | NR DC | Uplink NR DC | | | | | configuration | configuration | +====================================================+================+ | DC_n48A-n96A DC_n48B-n96A DC_n48C-n96A | DC_n48A-n96A\ | | DC_n48A-n96B DC_n48B-n96B DC_n48C-n96B | DC_n48B-n96A | | DC_n48A-n96C DC_n48B-n96C DC_n48C-n96C | | | DC_n48A-n96D DC_n48B-n96D DC_n48C-n96D | | | DC_n48A-n96E DC_n48B-n96E DC_n48C-n96E | | +----------------------------------------------------+----------------+
### 9.8.3 Maximum output power for NR-DC
**Table 9.8.3-1** **UE Power Class for uplink inter-band CA**
+-------------------------+---------------+----------------+ | Uplink CA Configuration | Class 3 (dBm) | Tolerance (dB) | +=========================+===============+================+ | DC_n48A-n96A | 23 | +2/-3 | | | | | | DC_n48B-n96A | | | +-------------------------+---------------+----------------+
## 9.9 **DC_n46-n48**
### 9.9.1 Operating bands for DC n46-n48
Table 9.9.1-1: **_Inter-band NR DC operating bands_ within FR1**
**NR DC Band** **NR Band**
* * *
DC_n46-n48 n46, n48
### 9.9.2 Configurations for DC_n46-n48
**Table 9.9.2-1: Inter-band NR DC configurations within FR1**
+---------------+----------------+ | NR DC | Uplink NR DC | | | | | configuration | configuration | +===============+================+ | DC_n46A-n48A | DC_n46A-n48A\ | | | DC_n46A-n48B | | DC_n46A-n48B | | | | | | DC_n46A-n48C | | | | | | DC_n46B-n48A | | | | | | DC_n46B-n48B | | | | | | DC_n46B-n48C | | | | | | DC_n46C-n48A | | | | | | DC_n46C-n48B | | | | | | DC_n46C-n48C | | | | | | DC_n46D-n48A | | | | | | DC_n46D-n48B | | | | | | DC_n46D-n48C | | | | | | DC_n46E-n48A | | | | | | DC_n46E-n48B | | | | | | DC_n46E-n48C | | +---------------+----------------+
9.9.3 Maximum output power for NR-DC
**Table 9.9.3-1** **UE Power Class for uplink inter-band CA**
+-------------------------+---------------+----------------+ | Uplink CA Configuration | Class 3 (dBm) | Tolerance (dB) | +=========================+===============+================+ | DC_n46A-n48A | 23 | +2/-3 | | | | | | DC_n46A-n48B | | | +-------------------------+---------------+----------------+
#