# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for NR sidelink enhancement
services in Rel-17. The purpose is to specify radio solutions that are
necessary for NR to support sidelink enhancement services based on the study
outcome captured in TR 38.840 and TR 37.885. Based on merged motivations from
interested companies, the following justification and objectives of this work
item decided in session 4.1 and session 4.2.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 30.007: \"Guideline on WI/SI for new Operating Bands\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\".
[5] 3GPP TS 38.101-3: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking operation with other
radios\".
[6] RP-202846: "WID revision: NR sidelink enhancement".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Con-current operation** : The simultaneous transmission and reception of
sidelink and Uu interfaces, irrespective of TDM mode and FDM mode, while
operation is agnostic of the service used on each interface.
**Contiguous carriers** : A set of two or more carriers configured in a
spectrum block where there are no RF requirements based on co-existence for
un-coordinated operation within the spectrum block.
**Contiguous resource allocation** : A resource allocation of consecutive
resource blocks within one carrier or across contiguously aggregated carriers.
The gap between contiguously aggregated carriers due to the nominal channel
spacing is allowed.
**Contiguous spectrum** : Spectrum consisting of a contiguous block of
spectrum with no sub-block gaps.
**Intra-band V2X operation** : Operation of LTE V2X carrier and NR V2X carrier
in the same operating band.
**Intra-band V2X con-current operation:** Operation of NR SL carrier and NR Uu
carrier in the same licensed band.
**Intra-band contiguous V2X operation:** Operation of contiguous LTE V2X
carrier and NR V2X carrier in the same operating band.
**Intra-band contiguous V2X con-current operation:** Operation of contiguous
NR V2X carrier and NR Uu carrier in the same licensed band.
**Inter-band con-current operation:** Operation of NR Uu carrier and NR V2X
carrier in different operating bands**.**
**Intra-band V2X con-current operating UE** : UE that supports the intra-band
V2X con-current operation.
**NR V2X UE/ V2X UE** : UE that supports NR V2X/V2X features.
**NR V2X carrier** : Carrier for NR V2X service.
**PC5** : The interface for sidelink transmission.
**PC2 V2X UE** : V2X UE that supports 26 dBm power class.
**Sub-block** : This is one contiguous allocated block of spectrum for
transmission and reception by the same UE. There may be multiple instances of
sub-blocks within an RF bandwidth.
**Sub-block bandwidth** : The bandwidth of one sub-block.
**Sub-block gap** : A frequency gap between two consecutive sub-blocks within
an RF bandwidth, where the RF requirements in the gap are based on co-
existence for un-coordinated operation.
**UE transmission bandwidth configuration** : Set of resource blocks located
within the UE channel bandwidth which may be used for transmitting or
receiving by the UE.
**Vehicular UE:** A UE embedded in a vehicle, permanently connected to an
embedded antenna system that radiates externally for NR operating bands.
NOTE: Vehicular UE does not refer to other UE form factors placed inside the
vehicle.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
ΔF~Global~ Granularity of the global frequency raster
ΔF~Raster~ Band dependent channel raster granularity
Δf~OOB~ Δ Frequency of Out Of Band emission
ΔP~PowerClass~ Adjustment to maximum output power for a given power class
∆~RB~ The starting frequency offset between the allocated RB and the measured
non-allocated RB
ΔR~IB,c~ Allowed reference sensitivity relaxation due to support for inter-
band CA operation, for serving cell _c_
Δ~Shift~ Channel raster offset
∆T~C~ Allowed operating band edge transmission power relaxation
∆T~C,_c_ ~ Allowed operating band edge transmission power relaxation for
serving cell _c_
∆SNR**~SL-Uu~** Difference in the target SNR value between NR Uu and SL Uu
∆IL**~UL-DL~** Difference in insertion loss on the UL received path for SL
reception compare to the DL received path for NR Uu, and includes the
difference of UL filter compared to the DL filter of Band duplexer and two
switches on the UL path.
∆L~CRB~ Difference RB size between NR Uu RMC and NR SL RMC
BW~Channel~ Channel bandwidth
BW~Channel,block~ Sub-block bandwidth, expressed in MHz. BW~Channel,block~=
F~edge,block,high~- F~edge,block,low~
BW~Channel,max~ Maximum channel bandwidth supported among all bands in a
release
BW~Channel_SL&UL~ The total channel bandwidth for SL and UL
BW~GB~ max( BW~GB,Channel(_k_)~ )
BW~GB,Channel(k)~ Minimum guard band of carrier _k_
BW~gap~ BW~gap~ is the bandwidth of the gap between N~RB1~ and N~RB2~ possible
allocations of SL CC1 and UL CC2 respectively.
BW~DL~ Channel bandwidth for DL
BW~UL~ Channel bandwidth for UL
BW~interferer~ Bandwidth of the interferer
Ceil(x) Rounding upwards; ceil(x) is the smallest integer such that ceil(x) ≥
x
Floor(x) Rounding downwards; floor(x) is the greatest integer such that
floor(x) ≤ x
F~C~ _RF reference frequency_ on the channel raster
**F~C,block,\ high~** Fc of the highest transmitted/received carrier in a
_sub-block_
**F~C,block,\ low~** Fc of the lowest transmitted/received carrier in a _sub-
block_
F~C,low~ The Fc of the lowest carrier, expressed in MHz
F~C,high~ The Fc of the highest carrier, expressed in MHz
F~DL_low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink _operating band_
F~DL_high~ The highest frequency of the downlink _operating band_
F~UL_low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink _operating band_
F~UL_high~ The highest frequency of the uplink _operating band_
F~edge,block,low~ The lower _sub-block_ edge, where F~edge,block,low~ =
F~C,block,low~ - F~offset,\ low.~
F~edge,block,high~ The upper _sub-block_ edge, where F~edge,block,high~ =
F~C,block,high~ + F~offset,\ high.~
F~edge\ ,\ low~ The _lower edge_ of _aggregated channel bandwidth_ , expressed
in MHz. F~edge,low~ = F~C,low~ - F~offset,low.~
F~edge,\ high~ The _higher edge_ of _aggregated channel bandwidth_ , expressed
in MHz. F~edge,high~ = F~C,high~ + F~offset,high.~
F~Interferer~ (offset) Frequency offset of the interferer (between the center
frequency of the interferer and the carrier frequency of the carrier measured)
F~Interferer~ Frequency of the interferer
F~Ioffset~ Frequency offset of the interferer (between the center frequency of
the interferer and the closest edge of the carrier measured)
F~offset~ Frequency offset from F~C_high~ to the _higher edge_ or F~C_low~ to
the _lower edge._
F~offset,high~ Frequency offset from F~C,high~ to the upper _UE RF Bandwidth
edge_ , or from **F~C,block,\ high\ ~** to the upper sub-block edge
F~offset,low~ Frequency offset from F~C,low~ to the lower _UE RF Bandwidth
edge_ , or from **F~C,block,\ low\ ~** to the lower sub-block edge
F~OOB~ The boundary between the NR out of band emission and spurious emission
domains
F~REF~ RF reference frequency
F~REF-Offs~ Offset used for calculating F~REF~
F~REF,Shift~ RF reference frequency for Supplementary Uplink (SUL) bands and
for the uplink for all FDD bands
F~uw~ (offset) The frequency separation of the center frequency of the carrier
closest to the interferer and the center frequency of the interferer
G~post\ connector~ The supported post antenna connector gain
L~CRB~ Transmission bandwidth which represents the length of a contiguous
resource block allocation expressed in units of resources blocks
A-MPR~Base~ The default A-MPR value when no G~post\ connector~ is declared
A-MPRStep The weighting value of G~post\ connector~ when G~post\ connector~ is
declared
Max() The largest of given numbers
Min() The smallest of given numbers
Physical resource block number
NR~ACLR~ NR ACLR
NR_SL~REFSENS~ The REFSENS value defined for NR SL
NR_Uu~REFSENS~ The REFSENS value defined for NR Uu
N~RB~ Transmission bandwidth configuration, expressed in units of resource
blocks
N~RB_alloc~ The allocated RBs
N~RB_agg~ The number of the aggregated RBs within the fully allocated
aggregated channel bandwidth $N_{RB_{_ agg}} =
\sum_{1}^{j}{N_{RB_{j}}_2^{\mu_{j}}}$ for carrier 1 to j, where_ μ* is defined
in TS 38.211
N~RB,c~ The transmission bandwidth configuration of component carrier c,
expressed in units of resource blocks $N_{RB,cj} = N_{RB_{j}}_2^{\mu_{j}}$ for
carrier j, where_ μ* is defined in TS 38.211
N~RB,largest\ BW~ The largest transmission bandwidth configuration of the
component carriers in the bandwidth combination, expressed in units of
resource blocks
N~RB,low~ The transmission bandwidth configurations according to Table 5.3.2-1
for the lowest assigned component carrier in clause 5.3A.1
N~RB,high~ The transmission bandwidth configurations according to Table
5.3.2-1 for the highest assigned component carrier in clause 5.3A.1
N~REF~ NR Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (NR-ARFCN)
N~REF-Offs~ Offset used for calculating N~REF~
NF~V2X~ Noise figure for V2X
P~CMAX~ The configured maximum UE output power
P~CMAX~, _~c~_ The configured maximum UE output power for serving cell _c_
P~CMAX~, _~f~_ , _~c~_ The configured maximum UE output power for carrier _f_
of serving cell _c_ in each slot
P~EMAX~ Maximum allowed UE output power signalled by higher layers
P~EMAX,\ _c_ ~ Maximum allowed UE output power signalled by higher layers for
serving cell _c_
P~Interferer~ Modulated mean power of the interferer
P~largest\ BW~ Power of the largest transmission bandwidth configuration of
the component carriers in the bandwidth combination
P~PowerClass~ P~PowerClass~ is the nominal UE power (i.e., no tolerance)
P-MPR _~c~_ Power Management Maximum Power Reduction for serving cell _c_
P~RB~ The transmitted power per allocated RB, measured in dBm
P~UMAX~ The measured configured maximum UE output power
Puw Power of an unwanted DL signal
Pw Power of a wanted DL signal
P~REFSENS_V2X~ The REFSENS power for V2X
RB~start~ Indicates the lowest RB index of transmitted resource blocks
RB~Start,Low~ RB~Start,Low~ = max(1, floor(L~CRB~/2))
RB~Start,High~ RB~Start,High~ = N~RB~ -- RB~Start,Low~ -- L~CRB~
RX_BW The bandwidth for receiving
REFSENS~V2X~ REFSENS value defined for V2X
SNR~V2X~ Signal-to-Noise Ratio for V2X
T(P~CMAX~, _~f~_ , _~c~_) Tolerance for applicable values of P~CMAX~, _~f~_ ,
_~c~_ for configured maximum UE output power for carrier _f_ of serving cell
_c_
SS~REF~ SS block reference frequency position
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
AGC Automatic Gain Control
A-MPR Additional Maximum Power Reduction
BLER BLock Error Rate
BS Base Station
CBW Channel Bandwidth
CDF Cumulative Distribution Function
CP-OFDM Cyclic Prefix-OFDM
DMRS Demodulation Reference Signal
DSRC Dedicated Short-Range Communications
EIRP Equivalent Isotropically Radiated Power
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
FDM Frequency Division Multiplexing
FR1 Frequency Range 1
FR2 Frequency Range 2
HD Half Duplex
ITS Intelligent Transportation System
IM Implementation Margin
LDPC Low Density Parity Check
LTE Long Term Evolution
LOS Line-Of-Sight
MPR Maximum Power Reduction
MBW Measurement BandWidth
NF Noise Figure
NLOS Non-Line-Of-Sight
NR New Radio
OLPC Open Loop Power Control
PC Power Control
PIR Packet Inter-Reception
PRB Physical Resource Block
PRR Package Reception Ratio
ProSe Proximity-based Services
PSCCH Physical Sidelink Control CHannel
PSSCH Physical Sidelink Shared CHannel
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity
RF Radio Frequency
SCS Sub-Carrier Spacing
SINR Signal to Interference plus Noise Ratio
SL Sidelink
SNR Signal-to-Noise Ratio
TDD Time Division Duplex
TDM Time Division Multiplexing
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
V2V Vehicle to Vehicle
V2X Vehicle to Everything
VRU Vulnerable Road User
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Justification
3GPP has been developing standards for sidelink as a tool for UE to UE direct
communication required in various use cases since LTE. The first standard for
NR sidelink enhancement is to be completed in Rel-16 by the work item "5G V2X
with NR sidelink" where solutions including NR sidelink are being specified
mainly for vehicle-to-everything (V2X) while they can also be used for public
safety when the service requirement can be met.
Meanwhile, the necessity of NR sidelink enhancement has been identified. For
V2X and public safety, the service requirements and operation scenarios are
not fully supported in Rel-16 due to the time limitation, and SA works are
ongoing on some enhancement in Rel-17 such as architecture enhancements for
3GPP support of advanced V2X services -- Phase 2 (FS_eV2XARC_Ph2) and System
enhancement for Proximity based Services in 5GS (FS_5G_ProSe). In addition,
other commercial use cases related to NR sidelink are being considered in SA
WGs via several work/study items such as Network Controlled Interactive
Service (NCIS), Gap Analysis for Railways (MONASTERYEND), Enhanced Relays for
Energy eFficiency and Extensive Coverage (REFEC), Audio-Visual Service
Production (AVPROD). In order to provide a wider coverage of NR sidelink for
these use cases and be able to provide the radio solutions in accordance with
the progress in SA WGs, it is necessary to specify enhancements to NR sidelink
in TSG RAN.
The following significant interest has been observed based on the several
motivations for SL enhancements.
**\- Power saving** enables UEs with battery constraint to perform sidelink
operations in a power efficient manner. Rel-16 NR sidelink is designed based
on the assumption of "always-on" when UE operates sidelink, e.g., only
focusing on UEs installed in vehicles with sufficient battery capacity.
Solutions for power saving in Rel-17 are required for vulnerable road users
(VRUs) in V2X use cases and for UEs in public safety and commercial use cases
where power consumption in the UEs needs to be minimized.
**\- Enhanced reliability and reduced latency** allow the support of URLLC-
type sidelink use cases in wider operation scenarios. The system level
reliability and latency performance of sidelink is affected by the
communication conditions such as the wireless channel status and the offered
load, and Rel-16 NR sidelink is expected to have limitation in achieving high
reliability and low latency in some conditions, e.g., when the channel is
relatively busy. Solutions that can enhance reliability and reduce latency are
required in order to keep providing the use cases requiring low latency and
high reliability under such communication conditions.
While several work areas have been identified in the discussion, some
important principles were also discussed regarding the 3GPP evolution for NR
sidelink. In dealing with different use cases in the evolution of NR sidelink,
WGs should strive to achieve maximum commonality between commercial, V2X, and
Critical Communication usage of sidelink in order to avoid duplicated
solutions and maximize the economy of scale. In addition, enhancements
introduced in Rel-17 should be based on the functionalities specified in
Rel-16, instead of designing the fundamental NR sidelink functionality again
in Rel-17.
## 4.2 Objective
The objective of this work item is to specify radio solutions that are
necessary for NR sidelink enhancement to support advanced V2X services, public
safety services and other commercial use cases related to NR sidelink. In the
following objectives, RAN4 should focus on the objective 4 and 6 in the
approved WID [1] as below
  * Sidelink evaluation methodology update: Define evaluation assumption and performance metric for power saving by reusing TR 36.843 and/or TR 38.840 (to be completed by RAN#89) [RAN1]
Note: TR 37.885 is reused for the other evaluation assumption and performance
metric. Vehicle dropping model B and antenna option 2 shall be a more
realistic baseline for highway and urban grid scenarios.
\- Resource allocation enhancement:
\- Specify resource allocation to reduce power consumption of the UEs [RAN1,
RAN2]
\- Baseline is to introduce the principle of Rel-14 LTE sidelink random
resource selection and partial sensing to Rel-16 NR sidelink resource
allocation mode 2.
Note: Taking Rel-14 as the baseline does not preclude introducing a new
solution to reduce power consumption for the cases where the baseline cannot
work properly.
  * This work should consider the impact of sidelink DRX, if any.
\- Study the feasibility and benefit of solution(s) on the enhancement(s) in
mode 2 for enhanced reliability and reduced latency in consideration of both
PRR and PIR defined in TR37.885 (by RAN#91), and specify the identified
solution(s) if deemed feasible and beneficial [RAN1, RAN2]
\- Inter-UE coordination with the following.
\- A set of resources is determined at UE-A. This set is sent to UE-B in mode
2, and UE-B takes this into account in the resource selection for its own
transmission.
Note: The solution should be able to operate in-coverage, partial coverage,
and out-of-coverage and to address consecutive packet loss in all coverage
scenarios.
Note: RAN2 work will start after RAN#89.
\- Sidelink DRX for broadcast, groupcast, and unicast [RAN2]
\- Define on- and off-durations in sidelink and specify the corresponding UE
procedure
\- Specify mechanism aiming to align sidelink DRX wake-up time among the UEs
communicating with each other
\- Specify mechanism aiming to align sidelink DRX wake-up time with Uu DRX
wake-up time in an in-coverage UE
\- Support of new sidelink frequency bands for single-carrier operations
[RAN4]
\- Support of new sidelink frequency bands should ensure coexistence between
sidelink and Uu interface in the same and adjacent channels in licensed
spectrum.
\- The exact frequency bands are to be determined based on company input
during the WI, considering both licensed and ITS-dedicated spectrum in both
FR1 and FR2.
\- Define mechanism to ensure sidelink operation can be confined to a
predetermined geographic area(s) for a given frequency range within non-ITS
bands [RAN2].
\- This applies areas where there is no network coverage.
\- UE Tx and Rx RF requirement for the new features introduced in this WI
[RAN4]
\- UE RRM core requirement for the new features introduced in this WI [RAN4]
Enhancements introduced in Rel-17 should be based on the functionalities
specified in Rel-16, and Rel-17 sidelink should be able to coexist with Rel-16
sidelink in the same resource pool. This does not preclude the possibility of
operating Rel-17 sidelink in a dedicated resource pool.
The solutions should cover both the operating scenario where the carrier(s)
is/are dedicated to ITS and the operating scenario where the carrier(s) is/are
licensed spectrum and also used for NR Uu/LTE Uu operation.
The solutions should support the network control of NR sidelink as in Rel-16,
i.e., NR Uu controls NR sidelink using Layer 1 and Layer 2 signalling and LTE
Uu controls NR sidelink using Layer 2 signalling.
In ITS carriers, it is assumed that any co-channel coexistence requirements
and mechanisms of NR sidelink with non-3GPP technologies will not be defined
by 3GPP.
Also, RAN4 agreed to specify additional V2X RF requirements as following
\- Left over issue in Rel-16:
\- Supporting PC2 NR SL UE RF requirements (PC2 single at n47, PC2 SL-MIMO at
n47, PC2 inter-band con-current operation)
\- Partial used SL operation in a carrier including n79 and other interesting
bands
\- Cover the Frequency separation issues and timing alignment issue
## 4.3 NR sidelink enhancement operating scenarios
### 4.3.1 General description
The NR Sidelink enhancement operating scenarios will be described to support
advanced V2X services, public safety services and other commercial use cases
based on agreed WID. RAN4 needs to enhance RF core requirements based on
operating scenarios in Rel-16 NR V2X service and the Proximity service (ProSe)
in TR 36.877.
Specifically, RAN4 did not complete some open issues in Rel-16 NR V2X, which
include:
\- TxD for NR V2X
\- PC2 HPUE for NR V2X
\- Intra-band V2X operation for TDD band, e.g. band n79
\- Intra-band con-current V2X operation for TDD band, e.g. band n79
The left over items will be further studied and specified into the related RF
requirements in this TR.
From RAN4 RF perspective, it is necessary to study coexistence before
introducing the new frequency NR band to support NR sidelink enhancement
operating at a frequency adjacent to NR Uu service for advanced V2X services,
public safety services and other commercial use cases in licensed spectrum.
In RAN4 #98-e meeting, RAN4 agreed not to introduce a new band for NR sidelink
in FR2 since no operator proposed a FR2 NR operating band for NR sidelink.
Hence, RAN4 need to study and specify the RF core requirements for NR sidelink
enhancement only in FR1 in Rel-17.
### 4.3.2 Operation Aspects
Operating scenarios for NR sidelink enhancement WI are as follows:
  * (Aspect 1) SL services and Operating band perspectives
\- Case 1: Public Safety Service
\- Case 1A: Dedicated public safety licensed band such as NR Band n14
\- Public safety UE operated in both in-coverage and out-of-coverage.
\- Case 1B: Dedicated public safety licensed band in other licensed bands
(depends on inputs from operators)
\- Public safety UE operated in both in-coverage and out-of-coverage.
\- Case 2: NR V2X service
\- Case 2A: V2X UE in ITS spectrum (e.g. 5.9GHz (n47))
\- RAN4 already evaluated in ITS spectrum in Rel-16 NR V2X WI
\- Case 2B: V2X UE in FR1 licensed bands (e.g. 4.5GHz(TDD), 2GHz(FDD))
\- TDD coexistence evaluated in Rel-16 NR V2X WI
\- FDD coexistence need to evaluated to protect legacy system (depends on
inputs on operating band from operators)
\- Case 3: Other commercial use cases (depends on inputs from operators and
other WGs)
\- Basic operation can be performed in existing NR SL operating bands.
\- If specific operating band is requested, need to add a new operating band
in suffix E in TS38.101-1.
  * (Aspect 2) gNB deployment including network control possibility
\- Case 1: Public safety Service
\- Case 1A: gNB is not deployed since only public safety UE operated in out-
of-coverage in licensed band such as n14
\- Case 1B: gNB is deployed to support both legacy NR UE and public safety UE
\- Public safety UE needs to protect the legacy NR system
\- Case 2: NR V2X service
\- Case 2A: No gNB deployment scenarios based on semi-statically network-
configured/pre-configured radio parameters
\- Support UE autonomous resource allocation, at least mode 2.
\- Case 2B: gNB deployment scenarios
\- Providing more UE specific or/and more dynamic resource allocation
including Mode 1.
\- Case 3: Other commercial use cases
\- Basic NR sidelink operation can support both in-coverage and out-of-
coverage scenarios.
\- If identified, RAN4 need to add new operating scenarios
RAN4 shall consider exact deployment scenarios and operating band planning for
public safety service, NR V2X service and other commercial SL operation.
### 4.3.3 Synchronization reference source
It was agreed in RAN4 to follow the existing RAN1 design on sync reference
source. The agreements by RAN1 are listed below:
  * Whether GNSS-based synchronization or gNB/eNB-based synchronization is used is (pre)-configured.
\- The following table is a working assumption
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | GNSS-based synchronization | gNB/eNB-based synchronization | +==================================+==================================+ | P0: GNSS | P0: gNB/eNB | | | | | P1: The following UE has the | P1': UE directly synchronized to | | same priority: | gNB/eNB | | | | | UE directly synchronized to GNSS | P2': UE indirectly synchronized | | | to gNB/eNB | | P2: The following UE has the | | | same priority: | P3': GNSS | | | | | UE indirectly synchronized to | P4': UE directly synchronized to | | GNSS | GNSS | | | | | P3: The remaining UEs have the | P5': UE indirectly synchronized | | lowest priority. | to GNSS | | | | | | P6': The remaining UEs have the | | | lowest priority. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
  * For confirmation of the working assumption of synchronization priority rules, eNB/gNB should be included into the priority order of GNSS-based synchronization.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | GNSS-based synchronization | gNB/eNB-based synchronization | +==================================+==================================+ | P0: GNSS | P0': gNB/eNB | | | | | P1: UE directly synchronized to | P1': UE directly synchronized to | | GNSS | gNB/eNB | | | | | P2: UE indirectly synchronized | P2': UE indirectly synchronized | | to GNSS | to gNB/eNB | | | | | P3: gNB/eNB | P3': GNSS | | | | | P4: UE directly synchronized to | P4': UE directly synchronized to | | gNB/eNB | GNSS | | | | | P5: UE indirectly synchronized | P5': UE indirectly synchronized | | to gNB/eNB | to GNSS | | | | | P6: the remaining UEs have the | P6': the remaining UEs have the | | lowest priority. | lowest priority. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Based on RAN2 specification in TS 38.331：
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | 5.8.12 DFN derivation from GNSS | | | | When the UE selects GNSS as the synchronization reference source, | | the DFN, the subframe number within a frame and slot number within a | | frame used for NR sidelink communication are derived from the | | current UTC time, by the following formulae: | | | | _DFN_ = Floor (0.1*(_Tcurrent_ \--_Tref--OffsetDFN_)) mod 1024 | | | | _SubframeNumber_ = Floor (_Tcurrent_ \--_Tref--OffsetDFN_) mod 10 | | | | _SlotNumber_ = Floor ((_Tcurrent_ \--Tref--_OffsetDFN_)*2^μ^) mod | | (10*2^μ^) | | | | Where: | | | | **_Tcurrent_** is the current UTC time that obtained from GNSS. This | | value is expressed in milliseconds; | | | | **_Tref_** is the reference UTC time 00:00:00 on Gregorian calendar | | date 1 January, 1900 (midnight between Thursday, December 31, 1899 | | and Friday, January 1, 1900). This value is expressed in | | milliseconds; | | | | **_OffsetDFN_** is the value _sl-OffsetDFN_ if configured, otherwise | | it is zero. This value is expressed in milliseconds. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
And according to RAN1 agreements, there are two standalone lists for
synchronization priority as GNSS-based synchronization or gNB/eNB-based
synchronization. When a UE is (pre)-configured with GNSS-based
synchronization, the UE would prefer GNSS as synchronization resource. When a
UE is (pre)-configured with gNB/eNB -based synchronization, the UE would
prefer network as synchronization resource. Also based on RAN1 agreement, it
is up to (pre)-configuration whether GNSS-based synchronization or gNB/eNB-
based synchronization is used.
When SL and Uu operate in the same licensed band, it is up to network
configuration to determine GNSS-based synchronization or gNB/eNB-based
synchronization is used. On the one hand, it is natural that a UE can be
configured by network with the network based synchronization for intra-band
con-current V2X operating bands. On the other hand, when GNSS is known by
network, it is still reasonable that a UE is (pre)-configured with GNSS-based
synchronization for intra-band con-current V2X operating bands, because there
is an '_OffsetDFN_ ' defined in TS 38.331 which is indicated by network to
make sure that there is a common understanding for SL and Uu about which slot
is used for SL transmission. Then it is up to network implementation to
determine the synchronization list configuration for a SL UE, no more
specification impact is needed.
# 5 Leftover RF requirements
## 5.1 Power class 2 sidelink UE
### 5.1.1 Coexistence evaluation for PC2 SL UE in licensed band
In this section, the adjacent channel system coexistence evaluation for PC2 NR
V2X operation was studied for NR V2X services. The operating scenarios include
the case where the carrier is deployed for NR V2X service in licensed
spectrum. For the licensed carrier, the coexistence evaluation include LTE or
NR Uu on the adjacent carrier of NR V2X.
#### 5.1.1.1 Coexistence evaluation scenarios
The adjacent channel coexistence evaluation scenarios for PC2 NR V2X service
are shown in Table 5.1.1.1-1
Table 5.1.1.1-1: The adjacent channel coexistence scenarios for PC2 NR V2X
service
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NR V2X operating | Deployment scenarios | | | frequency | | | | | ( | | | | Aggressor-to-Victim) | | +======================+======================+======================+ | FR1 | Scenario A: V2X | Case1: PC2 NR V2X | | | service at licensed | UE-to- PC2 NR V2X UE | | | band where only NR | | | | SL is supported. | Case2: PC2 NR V2X | | | (TDD: 2.6GHz) | UE-to- PC3 NR V2X UE | | | | | | | (2nd priority) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Scenario B: V2X | Case3: : PC2 NR V2X | | | service at licensed | UE-to-NR Uu BS | | | bands where NR SL | | | | and NR Uu are | Case4: NR Uu UE-to- | | | supported. (TDD: | PC2 NR V2X UE | | | 2.6GHz) | | | | | | | | (1^st^ priority) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Basic simulation parameters are below
\- Deployment scenarios: Urban Manhattan grid model
\- Simulation Block Size :
\- Urban : Manhattan grid model: 3*433m, 3*250m
  * RAN1 dependent parameter
\- For licensed band, NR SL operation in Uplink band in FDD, UL opportunity in
TDD is considered.
\- For SINR calculation in partial overlapping between aggressor and victim,
worst case SINR should be considered.
The details of the deployment scenarios are presented in the following
clauses.
#### 5.1.1.2 Coexistence simulations assumptions
##### 5.1.1.2.1 Layout model
RAN4 reuse the Manhattan Grid model based on the network layout model for
licensed band as shown in section 5.2.1 and section 5.2.2 in TR38.886.
##### 5.1.1.2.2 Simulation parameters
In Table 5.1.1.2.2-1 and Table 5.1.1.2.2-2, RAN4 provide detail simulation
parameters for PC2 coexistence evaluation in licensed band.
Table 5.1.1.2.2-1: Simulation parameters in licensed band for scenarios A
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Value | | +======================+======================+======================+ | | NR V2X UE | NR V2X UE (Victim) | | | (Aggressor) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Tx power | 26dBm | 23dBm or 26dBm | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel Bandwidth | 20MHz | 20MHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Packet size | 1) 14 PRB (190 byte | 1) 14 PRB (190 byte | | | packet) for 15kHz | packet) for 15kHz | | | SCS | SCS | | | | | | | 2) Other options | 2)Other options are | | | are not precluded | not precluded | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Traffic model | 1 transmission every | | | | 100ms | | | | | | | | -100ms message | | | | generation period | | | | | | | | - Time instance of | | | | message generation | | | | is randomized among | | | | vehicles | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Noise figure | 9dB | 9dB | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna pattern | Omni-directional | | | | with gain of 0 dBi | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sidelink Power | The worst case of no | | | control | power control is | | | | used | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | SINR-to-BLER mapping | As per link level | As per link level | | | performance model in | performance model in | | | TR 38.xxx | TR 38.xxx | | | | | | | Table A-x for 2.6GHz | Table A-x for 2.6GHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 5.1.1.2.2-2: Simulation parameters in licensed band for scenarios B
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter | Value | | | +================+================+================+================+ | | NR UE | NR BS | NR V2X UE | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Max Tx power | 23dBm or 26dBm | NA | 26dBm | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Channel | 20MHz | 20MHz | 20MHz | | Bandwidth | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Packet size | 1) [32] PRB | | 1) 14 PRB | | | for 15kHz SCS | | (190 byte | | | | | packet) for | | | 2) Other | | 15kHz SCS | | | options are | | | | | not precluded | | 2) Other | | | | | options are | | | | | not precluded | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Traffic model | Full buffer | Full buffer | Reference | | | | | table | | | | | 5.2.1.2-1 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Noise figure | N/A | 5dB | 9dB | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Antenna | Om | Antenna | Om | | pattern | ni-directional | pattern for | ni-directional | | | with gain of | FR1 Macro BS | with gain of | | | 0 dBi | from TR 38.828 | 0 dBi | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | SINR-to-BLER | NA | NA | As per link | | mapping for NR | | | level | | V2X | | | performance | | | | | model in TR | | | | | 38.xxx | | | | | | | | | | Table A-x for | | | | | 2.6GHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | SINR-to-rate | NA | As per link | NA | | mapping for NR | | level | | | | | performance | | | | | model in TR | | | | | 36.942 (Table | | | | | A.2). α, | | | | | attenuation = | | | | | 0.4, | | | | | SNIR~MIN~, dB | | | | | = -10, | | | | | SNIR~MAX~, dB | | | | | = 22 | | | | | (subclause | | | | | 5.2.3.6 from | | | | | TR 38.828). | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
##### 5.1.1.2.3 ACLR and ACS
RAN4 only consider 1step ACLR/ACS model to derive the PC2 coxistence
evaluation in licensed band
Table 5.1.1.2.3-1: ACLR and ACS in licensed band for scenarios A
+-----------+---------------------------+----------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | | +===========+===========================+============================+ | | PC2 NR V2X UE (Aggressor) | NR V2X UE (Victim PC3/PC2) | +-----------+---------------------------+----------------------------+ | ACLR | 31+XdB | 30 + X dB | | | | | | | | 31 + X dB | +-----------+---------------------------+----------------------------+ | ACS | 27+XdB | 27+ X dB | +-----------+---------------------------+----------------------------+
Table 5.1.1.2.3-2: ACLR and ACS in licensed band for scenarios B
Parameter Value
* * *
              NR UE (PC3/PC2)   NR BS   NR V2X UE (PC2)
ACLR 30 dB/31 dB NA 31 + X dB ACS NA 46 dB 27 + X dB
##### 5.1.1.2.4 Power control
For V2X operating scenarios A, RAN4 make consensus to reuse the OLPC in
TR36.786 or no power control is considered.
For V2X operating scenarios B, the power control mechanism which was specified
in clause 5.2.3.4 in TR38.886 for FR1 TDD band can be reused.
#### 5.1.1.3 Coexistence results
##### 5.1.1.3.1 Scenario A
In this clause, the simulation results in scenario A are provided. The
simulation results for case1 are listed below based on 31dB ACLR and 27dB ACS.
{width="3.3541666666666665in"
height="2.6354166666666665in"}{width="3.2291666666666665in" height="2.625in"}
Figure 5.1.1.3.1-1 simulation results for scenario A case1
And the PRR loss can be found in the below table.
Table 5.1.1.3.1-1 PRR loss for scenario A case1
+----------+--------------------------+-------------------------+ | PRR loss | PC2 NR V2X to NR V2X | PC2 NR V2X to NR V2X | | | | | | | At 150m range for 60km/h | At 50m range for 15km/h | +==========+==========================+=========================+ | 1100Byte | 3.9% | 0.3% | +----------+--------------------------+-------------------------+
Based on NR V2X co-existence simulation results for case1, the following
observations are made:
  * For both PRR loss at 50m range for 15km/h and at 150m range for 60km/h, NR V2X UE makes acceptable interference to NR V2X UE victim.
  * All the PRR loss is less than 5%.
##### 5.1.1.3.2 Scenario B
In this clause, the simulation results in scenario B are provided. The
simulation results for case3 and case4 are listed below based on 31dB ACLR and
27dB ACS for V2X UE.
{width="3.375in" height="2.65625in"}{width="3.2916666666666665in"
height="2.6354166666666665in"}
Figure 5.1.1.3.2-1 SINR and Throughput without power control for case3
{width="3.3125in" height="2.6354166666666665in"}{width="3.3333333333333335in"
height="2.625in"}
Figure 5.1.1.3.2-2 SINR and Throughput with power control for case3
{width="4.645833333333333in" height="2.9270833333333335in"}
Figure 5.1.1.3.2-3 Coexistence results for case4 without power control
{width="4.4375in" height="2.6041666666666665in"}
Figure 5.1.1.3.2-4 Coexistence results for case4 with power control
And the throughput loss and PRR loss can be found in the below table.
Table 5.1.1.3.2-1 Throughput loss for PC2 case3
Throughput loss 5% tile
* * *
                    without power control   with power control
                    26%                     little performance loss
Table 5.1.1.3.2-2 PRR loss for PC2 case4
PRR loss (1100Byte) At 150m range for 60km/h
* * *
                        without power control      with power control
                        1.4%                       8.6%
Based on PC2 NR V2X co-existence simulation results for case3 and case4, the
following observations are made:
  * With power control PRR loss at 150m range for 60km/h exceeds 5%, so the performance loss can be observed for NR V2X UE. But it is observed that there is very little performance loss for NR BS in this scenario.
  * Without power control the throughput loss at 5%-tile for 60km/h exceeds 5%, so the performance loss can't be accepted for NR BS. But it is observed that there is only 1.4% PRR loss for NR V2X UE in this scenario.
### 5.1.2 PC2 NR V2X UE RF requirements for single carrier
#### 5.1.2.1 Maximum output power for NR V2X UE
The following V2X UE Power Classes define the maximum output power for any
transmission bandwidth within the channel bandwidth. The period of measurement
shall be at least one sub frame (1ms).
Table 8.1-1: V2X UE Power Class
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NR | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | | band | 1 | rance | 2 | rance | 3 | rance | 4 | rance | | | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | ... | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | n47 | | | 26 | ±2 | 23 | ±2 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: NR | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | n47 | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | Ser | | | | | | | | | | vice. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | P~P | | | | | | | | | | owerC | | | | | | | | | | lass~ | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | wi | | | | | | | | | | thout | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | aking | | | | | | | | | | into | | | | | | | | | | ac | | | | | | | | | | count | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | tole | | | | | | | | | | rance | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
#### 5.1.2.2 UE maximum output power reduction
The following assumption can serve as a starting point for MPR simulation
assumptions as shown in Table 5.1.2.2-1 and Table 5.1.2.2-2.
Table 5.1.2.2-1: MPR simulation assumption for PC2 NR V2X
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Assumption | +======================+==============================================+ | Center frequency | **5.9GHz** | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Bandwidth | **10/20/30/40MHz** | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Maximum output power | 26 dBm | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Numerology | 15 kHz/30kHz/60kHz | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Modulation | QPSK/16QAM/64QAM/256QAM | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Waveform | CP-OFDM | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Carrier leakage | 25dBc | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | IQ image | 25dBc | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | CIM3 | 45dBc or 60dBc | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | PA calibration | PA calibrated to deliver [31dBc] ACLR for | | | a fully allocated RBs in 20MHz QPSK DFT- | | | S-OFDM waveform at 1 dB MPR. | | | | | | This is based to share PA between LTE V2X | | | and NR V2X at 5.9GHz as worst case. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
For PC2 NR V2X, simultaneous transmission of PSCCH and PSSCH in the same sub-
frame is supported. The following constraints in Table 5.1.2.2-2 can be
assumed based on current RAN1's agreement.
Table 5.1.2.2-2: PC2 V2X UE's MPR simulation assumptions
Items Assumption
* * *
Allowed sub-channel sizes Support {10, 12, 15, 20, 25, 50, 75, 100} PRBs for
possible sub-channel size. Allowed L~CRB~ allocation
10,12,15,20,24,25,30,36,40,45,48,50,60,70,72,75,80,84,90,96,100,105,108,110,120,130,132,135,140,144,150,156,160,165,168,170,175,180,190,192,195,200,204,210,216
Regarding PSCCH / PSSCH multiplexing {width="2.2534722222222223in"
height="0.8069444444444445in"} PSCCH size 10RB*3 Symbols PSD offset of X dB
between PSCCH and PSSCH 0dB
For simultaneous transmission of PSFCH transmission for PC2 V2X UE, RAN4
assumed as follow
Table 5.1.2.2-3: PC2 V2X UE's MPR simulation assumptions for PSFCH
transmission
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Items | Assumption | +======================+==============================================+ | Modulation for PSSCH | QPSK | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | PSFCH | ZC sequence | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Structure of Slot | Baseline is follow RAN1 agreements | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | RB allocation | - 1 RB per user | | | | | | - All users have the same power per RB | | | | | | - Total power of all users equals 26dBm for | | | PC2 | | | | | | - Both Non-contiguous PSFCH RB allocation | | | and contiguous PSFCH allocation are allowed | | | | | | MPR will be derived by non-contiguous PSFCH | | | RB allocation (N>1) | | | | | | - At least, the worst cases with possible | | | RBstart and Ngap need to be checked. ( Ngap | | | = RBend -- RBstart ) | | | | | | For example: The worst case N gap is (106-1 | | | =105*15kHz*12=) 18.9MHz for 20MHz, 15kHz | | | SCS | | | | | | - IMD problem by dual PSFCH in SEM/SE | | | region shall be considered to derive MPR | | | level according to all supporting CBW and | | | SCS. | | | | | | - N (Number of users) is up to 5 and RBs | | | except for RBstart and RBend can be inserted | | | between RBstart and RBend randomly. | | | | | | - Assumption of N in RAN4 is only for MPR | | | simulation purpose, the final number is up | | | to RAN1 decision. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
For S-SSB transmission for PC2 V2X UE, RAN4 assumed as follow
Table 5.1.2.2-4: PC2 V2X UE's MPR simulation assumptions for S-SSB
transmission
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Items | Assumption | +======================+==============================================+ | Modulation for PSBCH | QPSK | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | S-PSS | M-sequence | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | S-SSS | Golden-sequence | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | S-SSB structure | {width="2.8586067366579178in" | | | height="0.32558180227471567in"} | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | RB allocation | RBstart: All the possible cases | | | | | | L~CRB~: 11 RB | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
##### **5.1.2.2.1 MPR for Power class 2 V2X UE**
For contiguous allocation of PSCCH and PSSCH simultaneous transmission, the
allowed MPR for the maximum output power for NR V2X physical channels PSCCH
and PSSCH shall be specified as inner/outer RB allocations in Table
5.1.2.2.1-1 for power class 2.
Table 5.1.2.2.1-1: Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for power class 2 V2X
(Contiguous PSCCH and PSSCH transmission)
Modulation Channel bandwidth/MPR (dB)
* * *
               Outer RB allocations         Inner RB allocations
CP-OFDM QPSK ≤ 5.5 ≤ 2.5 16QAM  
64 QAM ≤ 6.0 ≤ 4.5 256 QAM ≤ 7.0
Where the following parameters are defined to specify valid RB allocation
ranges for Outer and Inner RB allocations:
N~RB~ is the maximum number of RBs for a given Channel bandwidth and sub-
carrier spacing defined in Table 5.3.2-1 in TS38.101-1.
RB~Start,Low~ = max(1, floor(L~CRB~/2))
where max() indicates the largest value of all arguments and floor(x) is the
greatest integer less than or equal to x.
RB~Start,High~ = N~RB~ -- RB~Start,Low~ -- L~CRB~
The RB allocation is an Inner RB allocation if the following conditions are
met
RB~Start,Low~ ≤ RB~Start~ ≤ RB~Start,High~, and
L~CRB~ ≤ ceil(N~RB~/2)
where ceil(x) is the smallest integer greater than or equal to x.
The RB allocation is an Outer RB allocation for all other allocations which
are not an Inner RB allocation.
#### 5.1.2.3 UE maximum output power with additional requirements
To comply the EN 302 571 standard emission mask, RAN4 need to derive A-MPR
requirements considering with the additional A-SEM and A-SE requirements in EN
302 571 standard as shown in Table 5.1.2.3-1 and Table 5.1.2.3-2.
NR V2X UE shall satisfy the additional SEM and additional SE requirements when
NS_33 is configured from pre-configured radio parameters or the cell and the
indication from upper layers has indicated was informed.
Table 5.1.2.3-1: Additional SEM requirements for 10MHz channel bandwidth
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Spectrum emission | | | | limit (dBm EIRP)/ | | | | Channel bandwidth | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Δf~OOB~ | 10 MHz | Measurement | | | | bandwidth | | (MHz) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ± 0-0.5 | [$- 13 - | 100 kHz | | | 12\left( \frac{\left | | | | | \mathrm{\Delta}\te | | | | xt{fOOB} \right|}{\t | | | | ext{MHz}} \right)$] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ± 0.5-5 | [$- 1 | 100 kHz | | | 9 - \frac{16}{9}\lef | | | | t( \frac{\left| \mat | | | | hrm{\Delta}\text{fOO | | | | B} \right|}{\text{MH | | | | z}} - 0.5 \right)$] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ± 5-10 | [$- 27 - 2\lef | 100 kHz | | | t( \frac{\left| \mat | | | | hrm{\Delta}\text{fOO | | | | B} \right|}{\text{MH | | | | z}} - 5.0 \right)$] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
NOTE 1: As a general rule, the resolution bandwidth of the measuring equipment
should be equal to the measurement bandwidth. However, to improve measurement
accuracy, sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution bandwidth may be smaller
than the measurement bandwidth. When the resolution bandwidth is smaller than
the measurement bandwidth, the result should be integrated over the
measurement bandwidth in order to obtain the equivalent noise bandwidth of the
measurement bandwidth.
NOTE 2: Additional SEM for V2X overrides any other requirements in frequency
range 5855-5950MHz.
NOTE 3: The EIRP requirement is converted to conducted requirement depend on
the supported post antenna connector gain G~post\ connector~ declared by the
UE following the principle described in annex G in TS38.101-1.
Table 5.1.2.3-2: Additional SE requirements
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | NR | Spu | | | | | | | | Band | rious | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | oexis | | | | | | | | | tence | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Prot | Freq | Ma | MBW | NOTE | | | | | ected | uency | ximum | (MHz) | | | | | | Band | r | Level | | | | | | | | anges | (dBm) | | | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | n47 | E | FDL | - | FDL\ | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low | | _high | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 45, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 68, | | | | | | | | | 72, | | | | | | | | | 73 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | n77, | | | | | | | | | n78 , | | | | | | | | | n79 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 5925 | - | 5950 | -30 | 1 | 38, | | | uency | | | | EIRP | | 40, | | | range | | | | | | 43 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 5815 | - | 5855 | -30 | 1 | 38, | | | uency | | | | EIRP | | 43 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | S_33 | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | S_34 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | | gured | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | pre- | | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | | gured | | | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | arame | | | | | | | | | ters. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: In | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | x-595 | | | | | | | | | 0MHz, | | | | | | | | | SE | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | -30dB | | | | | | | | | m/MHz | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | hould | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | lied; | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | x = | | | | | | | | | max | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | 5925, | | | | | | | | | fc + | | | | | | | | | 15), | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | fc is | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | frequ | | | | | | | | | ency. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | EIRP | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | conv | | | | | | | | | erted | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | cond | | | | | | | | | ucted | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | epend | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | supp | | | | | | | | | orted | | | | | | | | | post | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | tenna | | | | | | | | | conn | | | | | | | | | ector | | | | | | | | | gain | | | | | | | | | Gpost | | | | | | | | | conn | | | | | | | | | ector | | | | | | | | | dec | | | | | | | | | lared | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | prin | | | | | | | | | ciple | | | | | | | | | desc | | | | | | | | | ribed | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | annex | | | | | | | | | I. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+
##### **5.1.2.3.1 A-MPR for NS_33**
When NS_33 is indicated by the network or pre-configured radio parameters for
NR V2X UE, the additional maximum output power reduction specified as
A-MPR = CEIL {M~A~, 0.5}
Where M~A~ is defined as follows
M~A~ = A-MPR~Base~ + G~post\ connector~* A-MPRStep
CEIL{M~A,~ 0.5} means rounding upwards to closest 0.5dB.
A-MPR~Base~ which is specified for PSCCH and PSSCH transmission\S-SSB\PSFCH
below is allowed when network signalling value is provided _._ A-MPR~Base~ is
the default A-MPR value when no G~post\ connector~ is declared. The supported
post antenna connector gain G~post\ connector~ is declared by the UE following
the principle described in 38.101-1.
For the contiguous PSSCH and PSCCH transmission when NS_33 is indicated by the
network or pre-configured radio parameters for NR V2X UE, the NR UE allow the
follow A-MPR requirements.
Table 5.1.2.3.1-1: A-MPR for PSCCH/PSSCH by NS_33 (at Fc=5860MHz)
Carrier frequency [MHz] Resource Block (L~CRB~) Start Resource Block A-MPR(dB)
* * *
                                                                               QPSK/16QAM   64QAM   256QAM
5860 ≥ 10 and ≤ 15 0 and 1 ≤ 24  
2 and 3 ≤ 22  
4 ≤ 20  
≥ 10 and ≤ 25 ≥ 5 and ≤ 7 ≤ 17.5  
≥ 10 and ≤ 30 10 ≤ 16  
≥ 10 8 and 9 ≤ 16  
≥ 11 and ≤ 14 ≤ 14.5  
≥ 15 and ≤ 19 ≤ 13  
≥ 20 and ≤ 24 ≤ 11.5  
≥ 25 and ≤ 29 ≤ 10  
≥ 30 ≤ 8.5  
≥ 20 and ≤ 24 1 ≤ 22  
≥ 20 and ≤ 30 0 ≤ 22  
2 and 3 ≤ 20  
4 ≤ 17.5  
≥ 25 and ≤ 40 1 ≤ 20  
≥ 30 ≥ 5 and ≤ 7 ≤ 16  
≥ 36 0 ≤ 20  
≥ 2 and ≤ 4 ≤ 17.5  
10 ≤ 14.5  
≥ 45 1 ≤ 17.5
Table 5.1.2.3.1-2: A-MPR for PSSCH/PSCCH by NS_33 at other carrier frequency
Carrier frequency [MHz] RB allocations A-MPR (dB)
* * *
                                               QPSK         16QAM   64QAM   256QAM
5870,5910,5920 Outer ≤ 8.5 ≤ 8.5  
Inner ≤ 6.0  
5880,5890,5900 Outer ≤ 6.0 ≤ 6.5  
Inner ≤ 3.5 ≤ 4.5
Inner and outer RB allocations are defined in section 5.1.2.2.1.
## 5.2 Intra-band V2X operation in a licensed band
### 5.2.1 Intra-band V2X operation scenarios and basic assumptions
For intra-band V2X operation, both TDM and FDM between Uu and SL are
considered. The prioritization of operating scenarios including TDM and FDM
and respective basic RF architecture for operating scenarios are defined as
follows:
  * 1st priority: TDM with same carrier or different carrier (Single RF chain for Tx as baseline)
\- RAN4 allow TDM operation between spectrally partially used PC5 SL and Uu
UL/DL operation in a licensed TDD band regardless of adjacent/ non-adjacent
carrier
\- 2nd priority: FDM with adjacent carrier (Separate RF chain for Tx as
baseline)
\- 3rd priority: FDM with non-adjacent carrier (Separate RF chain for Tx as
baseline)
Other UE RF architecture is not precluded from implementation perspective.
In Rel-17, RAN4 focus on TDD band for intra-band V2X operation and
deprioritize FDD band. FDD band can be studied once operators have a request.
For intra-band contiguous and non-contiguous V2X con-current operation with
FDM operation, simultaneous UL transmission and SL reception in TDD band are
not allowed.
Release independence to earlier releases is optional for both inter-band and
intra-band con-current V2X operation.
In Rel-17, SL transmission timing remains aligned with DL timing as defined in
Rel-16. When it comes to intra-band Uu and V2X operation in a licensed band,
it is more likely to have self-interference between Uu and SL, especially for
the same carrier. Uu timing and SL timing are illustrated in figure 5.2.1-1.
{width="3.201111111111111in" height="2.0902777777777777in"}
Figure 5.2.1-1: Uu timing and SL timing
The timing for sidelink radio frame shall start $(N_{TA,SL} + N_{TA,offset})
\bullet T_{c}$ seconds before the start of DL as timing reference radio frame.
Refer to TS 38.211 sub-clause 8.5, for intra-band concurrent operation, the
$N_{TA,offset}$ is given by clause 4.3.1 of [TS 38.211] while The quantity
$N_{TA,SL}$ equals to 0\. Hence the following timing advance for sidelink and
uplink can be found as:
-The denoted sidelink timing advance T~TA,SL~ = $N_{TA,offset} \bullet T_{c}$
-The denoted uplink timing advance T~TA=~ $(N_{TA,SL} + N_{TA,offset}) \bullet T_{c}$
The overlapping of SL and UL is the timing difference as ΔT = T~TA,SL~ -
T~TA~= $N_{TA,SL} \bullet T_{c}$
The detailed self-interference problem is illustrated in figure 5.2.1-2. The
overlapping part of UL slot and SL Rx slot (blue shadow part) implies UL
transmission has interference to SL reception due to timing misalignment
between SL and UL. On the other hand, SL transmission has no interference to
DL reception since SL timing is currently aligned with DL timing.
Figure 5.2.1-2: UL Tx interfering to SL Rx
The last symbol of each SL slot is punctured as guard period. However, UL
transmission still has interference to SL reception when the timing advance is
larger than the length of one symbol, particularly for the UE with a large
cell size.
### 5.2.2 Coexistence evaluation
#### 5.2.2.1 Coexistence evaluation scenarios
In the coexistence evalutions for intra-band con-current V2X operation, RAN4
allowed the TDM operation between NR Uu and NR SL and also allowed the FDM
operation with synchronous operation between NR Uu and NR SL in a licensed
band. Therefore, the adjacent coexistence evaluation is not necessary to allow
the intra-band con-current V2X operation in a licensed band since the intra-
band con-current operations are quite similar to the intra-band NR CA
operation in a licensed band.
#### 5.2.2.2 Conclusion of Coexistence evaluations
Based on the intra-band V2X operation scenarios and basic assumptions in
section 5.2.1, RAN4 do not need to study the adjacent coexistence evaluation
analysis in a licensed band. Because RAN4 agreed the operation scenarios
priority in section 5.2.1. And also, the simultaneous UL transmission and SL
reception in TDD band are not allowed in 2^nd^ priority and 3^rd^ priority.
Hence, the coexistence evaluation is not necessary to allow the intra-band
con-current V2X operation in a licensed band since the intra-band con-current
operations are quite similar to the intra-band NR CA operation in a licensed
band. Therefore, the intra-band con-current V2X UE can be coexisted with
legacy NR system.
### 5.2.3 Intra-band V2X operation with TDM operation
#### 5.2.3.1 Operating bands for intra-band V2X operation with TDM operation
NR Uu operation is designed to operate with NR sidelink in TDM mode on the
operating band combinations listed in Table 5.2.3.1-1.
Table 5.2.3.1-1: Intra-band V2X operating bands with TDM operation
NR Uu-NR V2X Band Combination NR Uu or NR V2X Band Interface
* * *
V2X_n79_n79^1^ n79 Uu n79 PC5 NOTE 1: Only single switched sidelink or NR
uplink/downlink is supported.
For the intra-band V2X service for TDM operation in same carrier or different
carriers, the NR Uu operation meet the NR UE RF requirements and NR V2X UE
meet the existing TS38.101-1 RF requirements in suffix E, respectively.
#### 5.2.3.2 Tx requirements for intra-band V2X operation with TDM operation
##### 5.2.3.2.1 Additional Tx requirements for TDM operation
To decide the switching position for TDM operation in same/different carrier,
RAN4 will follow the priority rules outlined in TS38.321 and TS38.213.
In RAN4 #101 meeting, RAN4 decided to apply the different TA between NR Uu and
NR SL. The expected NR Uu's TA is 6.6us + 13us =19.6us when RAN4 assumed cell
range with 1km. But the TA~SL~ is only considered the N~TA_offset~ with 13us
as shown in Figure 5.2.3.2.1-1.
NOTE: The different TA between NR SL and NR Uu could be interfered each other
carrier. Some cases, the interference problem are elimited by last symbol
puncturing and other means. Specially, the interference problem will be raised
for the larger cell range such as over 5km cell range.
{width="5.6in" height="2.8in"}
Figure 5.2.3.2.1-1 Analysis of the interference problems for the time
alignment between NR Uu and NR SL for intra-band con-current operation
The detail UL slot and SL slot are described as follow in Figure 5.2.3.2.1-2.
{width="6.3in" height="1.1in"}
Figure 5.2.3.2.1-2. NR SL and NR UL allocated slots with different TA in
same/differnt carrier
In scenario 1, RAN4 can consider two cases (case 1 and Case 2) according to
the priority rules between NR Uu and NR SL as shown in Figure 5.2.3.2.1-3 in
same carrier.
{width="6.3in" height="2.1in"}
Figure 5.2.3.2.1-3. 4 operating cases based on priority between NR SL and NR
UL with different TA in same carrier
In Figure 5.2.3.2.1-3, the yellow colour region is the agreed switching time
position for TDM operation between NR UL slot n and NR SL slot n+1. In here,
there are N~TA~ time (6.6us) between UL slot and NR next slot as shown in Case
1 and Case 2. There was no TA problem for TDM operation in same carrier and
the high priority carrier (green colour) shall be protected without any TA
interference problem as shown in Case 1 and Case 2.
In scenario 2, RAN4 also consider two cases (Case 3 and Case 4) according to
the priority rules between NR Uu and NR SL as shown in Figure 5.2.3.2.1-3 in
same carrier.
In case 3, the high priority is in NR Uu for switching time from SL slot n+i
to UL slot n+i+1, then the UL slot shall be protected from the SL
transmission. But N~TA~ time (6.6us) of NR UL slot was overlapped with
previous SL slot n+i and the UL signal will be lost since the overlapped
region was considered as switching time for TDM operation.
In case 4, the high priority is in NR SL for switching time from SL slot n+i
to UL slot n+i+1 as shown in Figure 5.2.3.2.1-3, then the SL slot shall be
protected from the UL transmission. But, there was not exist the SL signal in
the overlapped N~TA~ time (6.6us) which was belong to the punctured last
symbol of NR SL. Therefore, the high priority NR SL shall be protected by TA
interference problem and keep the agreed ON/OFF time mask in Figure
5.2.3.2.1-4.
For the TDM operation in same carrier, the following transmit ON/OFF time mask
are applied.
{width="5.229166666666667in" height="1.7654746281714786in"}
Figure 5.2.3.2.1-4: ON/OFF Time mask for TDM operation in same carrier and
same bandwidth from NR SL to NR Uu in licensed band
For the TDM operation in different carrier, the following transmit ON/OFF time
mask is applied.
The switching time shall be located on the RAT of low priority when NR Uu and
NR SL have different priorities based on priority information specified in TS
38.321 and TS38.213. It is up to UE implementation when NR Uu and NR SL have
the same priority based on priority information specified in TS 38.213.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="1.7694444444444444in"}
Figure 5.2.3.2.1-5: Time mask for switching between SL and Uu for different
carrier case
In the real field, there is a timing advance difference, i.e. $N_{\text{TA}}
\bullet T_{c}$ between NR Uu slot and NR SL slot due to different timing
advance of NR Uu and NR SL which has been specified in sub-clause 5.2.1. The
On/Off time mask can be shifted due to the time advance difference in the same
carrier and different carrier and it is shown in following figure 5.2.3.2.1-6
and figure 5.2.3.2.1-7.
{width="6.333333333333333in" height="1.242361111111111in"}
Figure 5.2.3.2.1-6: Time mask shift due to time difference for NR SL switching
to NR Uu
{width="6.729166666666667in" height="1.207227690288714in"}
Figure 5.2.3.2.1-7: Time mask shift due to time difference for NR Uu switching
to NR SL
For intra-band V2X operating UE in Band n79 with TDM mode, the configured
transmitted power each RAT specified in clause 6.2.4 in TS38.101-1 and in
clause 6.2E.4 in TS38.101-1 which will apply for NR uplink carrier and NR V2X
carrier, respectively.
#### 5.2.3.3 Other Tx/Rx requirements for intra-band V2X operation with TDM
operation
For intra-band V2X operating UE in Band n79 with TDM mode, the each Tx/Rx
requirements specified in TS38.101-1 which will be applied for NR uplink
carrier and NR SL carrier respectively.
### 5.2.4 Intra-band contiguous V2X con-current operation with FDM operation
#### 5.2.4.1 Configuration for intra-band contiguous V2X con-current operation
with FDM operation
Bandwidth combination sets and V2X transmission/reception configurations for
intra-band contiguous V2X UE are specified in Table 5.2.4.1-1.
Table 5.2.4.1-1: NR Uu-NR V2X configurations and bandwidth combination sets
for intra-band contiguous V2X UE
* * *
V2X configuration V2X transmisison band Channel bandwidths for Uu carrier
(MHz) Channel bandwidths for SL carrier (MHz) Maximum aggregated\ Bandwidth
combination set bandwidth (MHz)
* * *
V2X_n79B NR band n79 40, 50, 60, 80 10,20,30,40 100 0
* * *
#### 5.2.4.2 Tx requirements for intra-band contiguous V2X con-current
operation with FDM operation
##### 5.2.4.2.1 Maximum output power
The following NR intra-band V2X con-current operating UE's Power Classes
define the maximum output power for any transmission bandwidth within the
channel bandwidth. The period of measurement shall be at least one sub frame
(1ms).
Table 5.2.4.2.1-1: intra-band V2X contiguous con-current V2X UE Power Class
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NR | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | | band | 1 | rance | 2 | rance | 3 | rance | 4 | rance | | | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | ... | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | V2X\ | | | 26 | +2/-3 | 23 | +2/-3 | | | | _n79B | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | intra | | | | | | | | | | -band | | | | | | | | | | conti | | | | | | | | | | guous | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | on-cu | | | | | | | | | | rrent | | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | NR Uu | | | | | | | | | | Ser | | | | | | | | | | vice. | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | class | | | | | | | | | | B is | | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | aggre | | | | | | | | | | gated | | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | 20 | | | | | | | | | | MHz ≤ | | | | | | | | | | BW~ | | | | | | | | | | Chann | | | | | | | | | | el_S | | | | | | | | | | L&UL~ | | | | | | | | | | ≤ 100 | | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | P~P | | | | | | | | | | owerC | | | | | | | | | | lass~ | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | wi | | | | | | | | | | thout | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | aking | | | | | | | | | | into | | | | | | | | | | ac | | | | | | | | | | count | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | tole | | | | | | | | | | rance | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
##### 5.2.4.2.2 UE maximum output power reduction
The following assumption can serve as a starting point for MPR simulation
assumptions as shown in Table 5.2.4.2.2-1 and Table 5.2.4.2.2-2.
Table 5.2.4.2.2-1: MPR simulation assumption for NR V2X intra-band contiguous
con-current operation
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Assumption | +======================+==============================================+ | Center frequency | **4.5GHz (n79)** | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Bandwidth | **10/20/30/40MHz for NR SL** | | | | | | **10/20/40/60/80MHz for NR Uu** | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Maximum output power | **23dBm: Back off 3dB with 23dBm 2 PAs or** | | | | | | 26 dBm**: 23dBm 2 PAs** | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Numerology | 15 kHz/30kHz/60kHz | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Modulation | QPSK/16QAM/64QAM/256QAM | | | | | | Individual modulation order will be | | | considered between NR SL and NR Uu | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Waveform | CP-OFDM for NR SL | | | | | | **CP-OFDM or DFT-S-OFDM for NR Uu** | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Carrier leakage | 25dBc | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | IQ image | 25dBc | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | CIM3 | 45dBc or 60dBc | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | PA calibration | PA calibrated to deliver 30dBc ACLR for a | | | fully allocated RBs in 20MHz QPSK DFT- | | | S-OFDM waveform at 1 dB MPR. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
For NR V2X intra-band contiguous con-current operation, simultaneous
transmission of PUSCH/PUCCH and NR V2X's PSCCH and PSSCH in the same sub-frame
is supported. The following constraints in Table 5.2.4.2.2-2 can be assumed
based on current RAN1's agreement.
Table 5.2.4.2.2-2: NR V2X intra-band contiguous con-current operation UE' MPR
simulation assumptions
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Items | Assumption | +==================================+==================================+ | Allowed sub-channel sizes for NR | Support {10, 12, 15, 20, 25, 50, | | SL | 75, 100} PRBs for possible | | | sub-channel size. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Allowed L~CRB~ allocation for NR | 10,12,15,20,24,25,30,36,40,45,48 | | SL | ,50,60,70,72,75,80,84,90,96,100, | | | 105,108,110,120,130,132,135,140, | | | 144,150,156,160,165,168,170,175, | | | 180,190,192,195,200,204,210,216. | | | | | | **No restriction of L~CRB~ for | | | NR Uu** | | | | | | 10 for NR SL(minimum value) | | | | | | 1 for NR Uu (minimum value), | | | | | | The values are selected for | | | worst case in aspect of MPR. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Regarding PSCCH / PSSCH | {width="2.2534722222222223in" | | | height="0.8069444444444445in"} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | PSCCH size for NR SL | 10RB*3 Symbols | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | PSD offset of X dB between PSCCH | 0dB | | and PSSCH for NR SL | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: If there is not indicate | | | the detail parameters, then | | | follow TR38.886 for NR SL | | | operation. Also follow | | | TS38.211/TS38.212/TS38.101-1 for | | | NR Uu operation. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
For simultaneous transmission of PSFCH transmission for V2X UE and PUSCH/PUCCH
for NR Uu, RAN4 need further discussion how to apply the MPR requirements.
For simultaneous transmission of S-SSB transmission for V2X UE and PUSCH/PUCCH
for NR Uu, RAN4 need further discussion how to apply the MPR requirements.
For NR intra-band V2X con-current operation with adjacent channel, the allowed
Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the maximum output power in Table
5.2.4.2.1-1 with contiguous RB allocation is specified in Table 5.2.4.2.2-3
for UE power class 3 with bandwidth class B.
Table 5.2.4.2.2-3: Contiguous RB allocation for Power Class 3
Higher Modulation order between sidelink and uplink MPR for bandwidth class
B(dB)
* * *
                                                        Inner                           Outer
CP-OFDM QPSK ≤ [2.5] ≤ [4.5] 16QAM ≤ [2.5] ≤ [4.5] 64QAM ≤ [4.5] ≤ [5.0]
256QAM ≤ [6.0] ≤ [6.0]
For bandwidth class B with contiguous RB allocation, the following parameters
are defined to specify valid RB allocation ranges for Inner and Outer RB
allocations:
An RB allocation is contiguous if L~CRB1~ = 0 or L~CRB2~ = 0 or (L~CRB1~ ≠ 0
and L~CRB2~ ≠ 0 and RB~Start1~ + L~CRB1~ = N~RB1~ and RB~Start2~ = 0), where
RB~Start1~, L~CRB1~, and N~RB1~ are for SL CC1, RB~Start2~, L~CRB2~, and
N~RB2~ are for UL CC2. SL CC1 is the component carrier with lower frequency.
In contiguous NR V2X intra-band con-current operation, a contiguous allocation
is an inner allocation if
RB~Start,Low~ ≤ RB~Start_SL&UL~ ≤ RB~Start,High~, and N~RB_alloc~ ≤
ceil(N~RB,agg~ /2),
where
RB~Start,Low~ = max(1, floor(N~RB_alloc~ /2))
RB~Start,High~ = N~RB,agg~ -- RB~Start,Low~ -- N~RB,alloc~,
with
N~RB_alloc~= L~CRB1~ ∙ 2^µ1^ + L~CRB2~ ∙ 2^µ2^
N~RB_alloc~= (N~RB1~ - RB~Start1~)∙ 2^µ1^ + (RB~Start2~ + L~CRB2~ ) ∙ 2^µ2^,
N~RB,agg~=N~RB1~∙2^µ1^+ N~RB2~∙2^µ2^.
If L~CRB1~ =0, RB~Start_SL&UL~ = N~RB1~∙2^µ1^+ RB~Start2~∙2^µ2^,
if L~CRB1~ > 0, RB~Start_SL&UL~ = RB~Start1~∙2^µ1^,
where µ1 and µ2 is 0, 1 and 2 for SCS of 15kHz, 30kHz and 60kHz respectively.
A contiguous allocation that is not an Inner contiguous allocation is an Outer
contiguous allocation.
For NR intra-band V2X con-current operation with adjacent channel, the allowed
Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the maximum output power in Table
5.2.4.2.1-1 with non-contiguous RB allocation is specified in Table
5.2.4.2.2-4 for UE power class 3 with bandwidth class B.
Table 5.2.4.2.2-4: Non-contiguous RB allocation for Power Class 3
Higher Modulation order between sidelink and uplink MPR for bandwidth class
B(dB)
* * *
                                                        Inner                           Outer^1^    Outer^2^
CP-OFDM QPSK ≤ [2.5] ≤ [4.0] ≤ [4.5] 16QAM ≤ [2.5] ≤ [4.0] ≤ [4.5] 64QAM ≤
[4.5] ≤ [4.5] ≤ [5.0] 256QAM ≤ [6.0] ≤ [6.0] ≤ [6.0]
For bandwidth classes B with non-contiguous RB allocation, the following
parameters are defined to specify valid RB allocation ranges for Inner, Outer1
and Outer2 RB allocations:
Non-Contiguous RB allocation is defined as RB~Start1~ + L~CRB1~ \ 0, when both SL CC and UL CC are activated and allocated with
RB(s), where RB~Start1~, L~CRB1~, and N~RB1~ are for SL CC1, RB~Start2~,
L~CRB2~, and N~RB2~ are for UL CC2. SL CC1 is the component carrier with lower
frequency.
In contiguous NR V2X intra-band con-current operation, a non-contiguous RB
allocation is a non-contiguous Inner RB allocation if the following conditions
are met:
RB~Start,Low~ ≤ RB~Start_CA~ ≤ RB~Start,High~ and N~RB_alloc~ ≤
ceil((BW~Channel_SL&UL~ / 3 -- BW~gap~ ) / 0.18MHz),
where
N~RB_alloc~ = (N~RB1~ - RB~Start1~)∙ 2^µ1^ + (RB~Start2~ + L~CRB2~ ) ∙
2^µ2^~,~ RB~Start_SL&UL~ = RB~Start1~∙2^μ1^
RB~Start,Low~ = max(1, floor(N~RB_alloc~ + (BW~gap~ -- BW~GB,low~)/0.18MHz))
RB~Start,High~ = floor((BW~Channel_SL&UL~ -- 2 ∙ BW~gap~ --
BW~GB,low~)/0.18MHz -- 2 ∙ N~RB_alloc~)
BW~GB,low~ =F~offset,low~ -- (N~RB1~∙12+1)∙SCS~1~/2
BW~gap~ is the bandwidth of the gap between N~RB1~ and N~RB2~ possible
allocations of SL CC1 and UL CC2 respectively.
In contiguous NR V2X intra-band con-current operation, a non-contiguous RB
allocation is a non-contiguous outer 1 RB allocation if the following
conditions are met:
RB~Start,Low~ ≤ RB~Start_SL&UL~ ≤ RB~Start,High~ and N~RB_alloc~ ≤ ceil((3
BW~Channel_SL&UL~ / 5 -- BW~gap~) / 0.18MHz)
where
RB~Start,Low~ = max(1, 2 ∙ N~RB_alloc~ -- floor( (BW~Channel_SL&UL~ -- 2 ∙
BW~gap~ + BW~GB,low~)/0.18MHz)),
RB~Start,High~ = floor((2 ∙ BW~Channel_SL&UL~ -- 3 ∙ BW~gap~ -- BW~GB,low~) /
0.18MHz -- 3 ∙ N~RB_alloc~)
N~RB_alloc~ , RB~Start_SL&UL~ , BW~gap~ and BW~GB,low~ are as defined for the
Inner region.
In contiguous NR V2X intra-band con-current operation, a non-contiguous
allocation is an Outer 2 allocation if it is neither a non-contiguous Inner
allocation nor an Outer 1 allocation.
For NR intra-band V2X con-current operation with adjacent channel, the allowed
Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the maximum output power in Table
5.2.4.2.1-1 with contiguous RB allocation is specified in Table 5.2.4.2.2-5
for UE power class 2 with bandwidth class B.
Table 5.2.4.2.2-5: Contiguous RB allocation for Power Class 2
Higher Modulation order between sidelink and uplink MPR for bandwidth class
B(dB)
* * *
                                                        Inner                           Outer
CP-OFDM QPSK ≤ [3.0] ≤ [5.5] 16QAM ≤ [4.0] ≤ [5.5] 64QAM ≤ [5.5] ≤ [6.0]
256QAM ≤ [7.5] ≤ [7.5]
For NR intra-band V2X con-current operation with adjacent channel, the allowed
Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the maximum output power in Table
5.2.4.2.1-1 with non-contiguous RB allocation is specified in Table
5.2.4.2.2-6 for UE power class 2 with bandwidth class B.
Table 5.2.4.2.2-6: Non-contiguous RB allocation for Power Class 2
Higher Modulation order between sidelink and uplink MPR for bandwidth class
B(dB)
* * *
                                                        inner                           Outer^1^    Outer^2^
CP-OFDM QPSK ≤ [3.0] ≤ [5.5] ≤ [6.0] 16QAM ≤ [4.5] ≤ [5.5] ≤ [6.5] 64QAM ≤
[5.5] ≤ [6.5] ≤ [7.0] 256QAM ≤ [8.0] ≤ [8.0] ≤ [8.0]
##### 5.2.4.2.3 Configured transmitted power for intra-band con-current V2X
operation
For intra-band con-current operation, the configured maximum output power
P~CMAX,_c_ ~ on serving cell _c_ for SL and Uu shall be set as specified in
clause 6.2E.4.1 and in clause 6.2.4, but with MPR _~c~_ = MPR and A-MPR _~c~_
= A-MPR with MPR and A-MPR as determined by subclause 6.2E.2 and 6.2E.3,
respectively. There is one power management term for the UE, denoted P-MPR,
and P-MPR _~c~_ = P-MPR.
The total configured maximum output power P~CMAX~ shall be set within the
following bounds:
P~CMAX_L~ ≤ P~CMAX~ ≤ P~CMAX_H~
For intra-band con-current operation when same slot pattern is used in all
aggregated serving cells,
P~CMAX_L~ = MIN{10 log~10~ ∑ p~EMAX,c~ - ∆T~C~ ,P~PowerClass,con-current~ --
MAX(MAX(MPR, A-MPR) + ΔT~IB,c~ + ∆T~C~, P-MPR) }
P~CMAX_H~ = MIN{10 log~10~ ∑ p~EMAX,c~, P~PowerClass,con-current~}
where
\- p~EMAX,c~ is the linear value of P~EMAX,_c_ ~ which is given by IE _P-Max_
for Uu serving cell _c_ in [7] or by IE _sl-maxTxPower_ for SL defined in [7]
;
\- P~PowerClass,\ con-current~ is the maximum UE power specified in Table
[6.2E.1.2-2] without taking into account the tolerance;
\- MPR and A-MPR are specified in clause 6.2E.2 and 6.2E.3, respectively;
\- ∆ _T~IB,c~ is_ specified in clause [6.2E.4.3];
\- P-MPR is the power management term for the UE;
\- ∆T~C~ is the highest value ∆T~C,c~ among all serving cells _c_ ;
For intra-band con-current operation, when at least one different
numerology/slot pattern is used in aggregated cells, the UE is allowed to set
its configured maximum output power P~CMAX,c(i),i~ for serving cell c(i) of
slot numerology type _i_ , and its total configured maximum output power
P~CMAX~.
The configured maximum output power P~CMAX,c(i),i~ (p) in slot p of serving
cell c(i) on slot numerology type _i_ shall be set within the following
bounds:
P~CMAX_L,f,c(i),i~ (p) ≤ P~CMAX,f,c(i),\ i~ (p) ≤ P~CMAX_H,f,c(i),i~ (p)
where P~CMAX_L,f,c~ ~(i),i~ (p) and P~CMAX_H,f,c(i),i~ (p) are the limits for
a serving cell c(i) of slot numerology type i as specified in clause 6.2E.4.1
or in clause 6.2.4.
The total UE configured maximum output power P~CMAX~ (p,q) in a slot p of slot
numerology or symbol pattern _i_ , and a slot q of slot numerology or symbol
pattern _j_ that overlap in time shall be set within the following bounds
unless stated otherwise:
P~CMAX_L~(p,q) ≤ P~CMAX~ (p,q) ≤ P~CMAX_H~ (p,q)
When slots p and q have different transmissions lengths and belong to
different cells on same band:
P~CMAX_L~ (p,q) = MIN {10 log~10~ [p~CMAX_L,f,c(i),Uu,i~ (p) +
p~CMAX_L,f,c(i),V2X,j~ (q)], P~PowerClass,con-current~ }
P~CMAX_H~ (p,q) = MIN {10 log~10~ [p~CMAX_\ H,f,c(i),Uu,i~ (p) + p~CMAX_\
H,f,c(i),V2X,j~ (q)], P~PowerClass,con-current~ }
where p~CMAX_L,f,c~ ~(i),i~ and p~CMAX_\ H,f,c(i),i~ are the respective limits
P~CMAX_L,f,c~ ~(i),i~ and P~CMAX_H,f,c(i),i~ expressed in linear scale.
T~REF~ and T~eval~ are specified in Table 6.2E.4.1-1 when same and different
slot patterns are used in con-current operation carriers. For each T~REF~, the
P~CMAX_L~ is evaluated per T~eval~ and given by the minimum value taken over
the transmission(s) within the T~eval~; the minimum P~CMAX_L~ over the one or
more T~eval~ is then applied for the entire T~REF~.
Table 6.2E.4.1-1: P~CMAX~ evaluation window for different slot and channel
durations
* * *
T**~REF~** T**~eval~** T**~eval~** with frequency hopping T~REF~ of largest
slot duration over both UL and SL CCs Physical channel length
Min(T~no_hopping~, Physical Channel Length)
* * *
The measured maximum output power P~UMAX~ over all serving cells with same
slot pattern shall be within the following range:
P~CMAX_L~ -- MAX{T~L~, T~LOW~(P~CMAX_L~) } ≤ P~UMAX~ ≤ P~CMAX_H~ +
T~HIGH~(P~CMAX_H~)
P~UMAX~ = 10 log~10~ ∑ p~UMAX,c~
where p~UMAX,c~ denotes the measured maximum output power for serving cell _c_
expressed in linear scale. The tolerances T~LOW~(P~CMAX~) and T~HIGH~(P~CMAX~)
for applicable values of P~CMAX~ are specified in Table 6.2E.4.1-2. The
tolerance T~L~ is the absolute value of the lower tolerance for applicable NR
V2X con-current operation configuration as specified in Table [6.2A.1.3-1-2
for con-current operation configuration].
The measured maximum output power P~UMAX~ over all serving cells, when at
least one slot has a different transmission numerology or slot pattern, shall
be within the following range:
P\'~CMAX_L~-- MAX{T~L~, T~LOW~ (P\'~CMAX_L~)} ≤ P\'~UMAX~ ≤ P\'~CMAX_H~ +
T~HIGH~ (P\'~CMAX_H~)
P\'~UMAX~ = 10 log~10~ ∑ p\'~UMAX,c~
where p\'~UMAX,c~ denotes the average measured maximum output power for
serving cell _c_ expressed in linear scale over T~REF~. The tolerances
T~LOW~(P\'~CMAX~) and T~HIGH~(P\'~CMAX~) for applicable values of P\'~CMAX~
are specified in Table 6.2E.4.1-2 for intra-band carrier aggregation. The
tolerance T~L~ is the absolute value of the lower tolerance for applicable NR
V2X con-current operation configuration as specified in Table [6.2E.1.2-1 for
con-current operation configuration].
where:
P\'~CMAX_L~ = MIN{ MIN {10log~10~∑( p~CMAX_L,f,c(i),i~), P~PowerClass,con-
current~} over all overlapping slots in T~REF~}
P\'~CMAX_H~ = MAX{ MIN{10 log~10~ ∑ p~EMAX,c~ , P~PowerClass,con-current~}
over all overlapping slots in T~REF~}
Table 6.2E.4.1-2: P~CMAX~ tolerance for SL intra-band con-current operation
* * *
P~CMAX~\ Tolerance\ Tolerance\ (dBm) T~LOW~(P~CMAX~)\ T~HIGH~(P~CMAX~)\ (dB)
(dB)
26 ≤ P~CMAX~ \= 3GHz (e.g B42, n77, n78,
n79...) at licensed bands at FR1.
_-_ IM: 2.5 dB is assumed. When the number of RB size is equal to or less than
24RBs, 0.5dB additional relaxation is allowed.
\- Target SNR: -0.5 dB
\- Diversity gain: 3dB
For the REFSENS requirements of SL operation in the NR refarming bands, the
reference sensitivity power level of SL enhancement UE is determined as
following equation:
NR_SL~REFSENS~ = NR_Uu~REFSENS~ + ∆SNR**~SL-Uu~** \+ ∆IL**~UL-DL~** \+
10log10(∆L~CRB~/NRB)
Where,
\- NR_SL~REFSENS~: Reference sensitivity for NR SL with the RMC which reuse
the Uu RMC
\- NR_Uu~REFSENS~: Reference sensitivity for NR Uu with Uu RMC
\- ∆SNR**~SL-Uu~** : Difference in the target SNR value between NR Uu and SL
Uu
\- ∆IL**~UL-DL~:** Difference in insertion loss on the UL received path for SL
reception compare to the DL received path for NR Uu, and includes the
difference of UL filter compared to the DL filter of Band duplexer and two
switches on the UL path.
\- 10log10(∆L~CRB~/NRB): Difference RB size between NR Uu RMC and NR SL RMC
The REFSENS requirements for NR SL enhancement are specified in Table 8.2.1-1.
Table 8.2.1-1: Reference sensitivity for NR SL enhancement (PC5)
+-------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NR | | | | | | | | | Oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | / SCS | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | uplex | | | | | | | | | -mode | | | | | | | | +=======+=====+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | V2X | SCS | 5MHz | 10MHz | 20MHz | 30MHz | 40MHz | D | | Band | | | | | | | uplex | | | kHz | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | Mode | +-------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | n14 | 15 | -95.9 | -92.7 | | | | HD | +-------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 30 | | -93.0 | | | | | +-------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 60 | | | | | | | +-------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 8.2.1-2: Sidelink TX configuration for reference sensitivity for NR SL
enhancement (PC5)
* * *
NR operating Band / SCS/ Channel bandwidth / N~RB~ / Duplex mode
V2X Band SCS (kHz) 5 MHz\ 10 MHz\ 20 MHz\ 30 MHz\ 40 MHz\ Duplex Mode (dBm)
(dBm) (dBm) (dBm) (dBm)
n14 15 20 20 HD
                                                                     30                   10
                                                                     60
* * *
### 8.2.2 Maximum input level
Maximum input level is defined as the maximum mean power received at the UE
antenna port, at which the specified relative throughput shall meet or exceed
the minimum requirements for the specified reference measurement channel. The
maximum input levels for NR SL enhancement are specified in Table 8.2.2-1.
Table 8.2.2-1: Maximum input level for NR SL enhancement
+------------+-------+------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+ | Rx | Units | Channel | | | | | | Parameter | | bandwidth | | | | | +============+=======+============+========+========+========+========+ | | | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 20 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz | +------------+-------+------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+ | Power in | dBm | -25^1^ | -25^1^ | | | | | Tr | | | | | | | | ansmission | | | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | | | Con | | | | | | | | figuration | | | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+ | | | -27^2^ | -27^2^ | | | | +------------+-------+------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | easurement | | | | | | | | channel is | | | | | | | | A.7.3 for | | | | | | | | 64QAM. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | easurement | | | | | | | | channel is | | | | | | | | A.7.4 for | | | | | | | | 256QAM. | | | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
### 8.2.3 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)
Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) is a measure of a receiver\'s ability to
receive an NR signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of an
adjacent channel signal at a given frequency offset from the centre frequency
of the assigned channel.
Table 8.2.3-1: Adjacent channel selectivity for NR SL enhancement
                  Channel bandwidth
* * *
RX parameters Units 5 MHz 10 MHz 20 MHz 30 MHz 40 MHz ACS dB 33.0 33.0
Table 8.2.3-2: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity for NR SL
enhancement, Case 1
+----------+-------+----------+----------+--------+--------+--------+ | Rx | Units | Channel | | | | | | P | | b | | | | | | arameter | | andwidth | | | | | +==========+=======+==========+==========+========+========+========+ | | | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 20 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz | +----------+-------+----------+----------+--------+--------+--------+ | Power in | dBm | P~REFSE | | | | | | Tran | | NS_V2X~ | | | | | | smission | | + 14 dB | | | | | | B | | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | | Confi | | | | | | | | guration | | | | | | | +----------+-------+----------+----------+--------+--------+--------+ | * | dBm | REFSENS | REFSENS | | | | | _P~Inter | | +45.5dB | +45.5dB | | | | | ferer~__| | | | | | | +----------+-------+----------+----------+--------+--------+--------+ | ** | MHz | 5 | 5 | | | | | BW~Inter | | | | | | | | ferer~__| | | | | | | +----------+-------+----------+----------+--------+--------+--------+ |__F~Int | MHz | 5.0\ | 7.5\ | | | | | erferer~ | | /\ | /\ | | | | | (o | | -5.0 | -7.5 | | | | | ffset)_ * | | | | | | | +----------+-------+----------+----------+--------+--------+--------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | terferer | | | | | | | | is QPSK | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | odulated | | | | | | | | PSSCH | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | ntaining | | | | | | | | data and | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | eference | | | | | | | | symbols. | | | | | | | | Normal | | | | | | | | cyclic | | | | | | | | prefix | | | | | | | | is used. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | absolute | | | | | | | | value of | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | terferer | | | | | | | | offset | | | | | | | | F~int | | | | | | | | erferer~ | | | | | | | | (offset) | | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | | further | | | | | | | | adjusted | | | | | | | | to MHz | | | | | | | | with SCS | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | sub | | | | | | | | -carrier | | | | | | | | spacing | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | in MHz. | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | terferer | | | | | | | | is an NR | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | with 15 | | | | | | | | kHz SCS. | | | | | | | +----------+-------+----------+----------+--------+--------+--------+
Table 8.2.3-3: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity for NR SL
enhancement, Case 2
+------------+-------+------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+ | Rx | Units | Channel | | | | | | Parameter | | bandwidth | | | | | +============+=======+============+========+========+========+========+ | | | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 20 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz | +------------+-------+------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+ | Power in | dBm | -56.5 | -56.5 | | | | | Tr | | | | | | | | ansmission | | | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | | | Con | | | | | | | | figuration | | | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+ | P~I | dBm | -25 | | | | | | nterferer~ | | | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+ | BW~I | MHz | 5 | 5 | | | | | nterferer~ | | | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+ | F~I | MHz | 5.0 | 7.5 | | | | | nterferer~ | | | | | | | | (offset) | | / | / | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -5.0 | -7.5 | | | | +------------+-------+------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | | | is QPSK | | | | | | | | modulated | | | | | | | | PSSCH | | | | | | | | containing | | | | | | | | data and | | | | | | | | reference | | | | | | | | symbols. | | | | | | | | Normal | | | | | | | | cyclic | | | | | | | | prefix is | | | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | absolute | | | | | | | | value of | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | | | offset | | | | | | | | F~i | | | | | | | | nterferer~ | | | | | | | | (offset) | | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | | further | | | | | | | | adjusted | | | | | | | | to MHz | | | | | | | | with SCS | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ub-carrier | | | | | | | | spacing of | | | | | | | | the wanted | | | | | | | | signal in | | | | | | | | MHz. The | | | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | | | is an NR | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | with 15 | | | | | | | | kHz SCS. | | | | | | | +------------+-------+------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
### 8.2.4 Blocking characteristics
#### 8.2.4.1 In-band blocking
For NR SL enhancement, RAN4 reuse the in-band blocking requirements for NR Uu
as shown in Table 8.2.4.1-1 and Table 8.2.4.1-2.
Table 8.2.4.1-1: In band blocking parameters for NR SL enhancement
RX parameter Units Channel bandwidth
* * *
                                                                                                                                5 MHz                                                      10 MHz   20 MHz   30 MHz   40 MHz
Power in transmission bandwidth configuration dBm P~REFSENS_V2X~ + channel
bandwidth specific value below  
dB 6 6  
BW~interferer~ MHz 5  
F~Ioffset,\ case\ 1~ MHz 7.5  
F~Ioffset,\ case\ 2~ MHz 12.5  
NOTE 1: The interferer is QPSK modulated PSSCH containing data and reference
symbols. Normal cyclic prefix is used.
Table 8.2.4.1-2: In-band blocking for NR SL enhancement
+--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | NR | Parameter | Unit | Case 1 | Case 2 | | | | | | | | band | | | | | +==============+==============+======+==============+==============+ | n14 | P | dBm | -56 | -44 | | | ~Interferer~ | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | | F | MHz | -BW/2 -- | ≤-BW/2 -- | | | ~Interferer~ | | F~Ioff | F~Ioff | | | (offset) | | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ | | | | | | | | | | | & | & | | | | | | | | | | | BW/2 + | ≥BW/2 + | | | | | F~Ioff | F~Ioff | | | | | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | | F | MHz | NOTE 2 | F~DL_low~ | | | ~Interferer~ | | | -- 15 | | | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~DL_high~ | | | | | | + 15 | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: For | | | | | | certain | | | | | | bands, the | | | | | | unwanted | | | | | | modulated | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal may | | | | | | not fall | | | | | | inside the | | | | | | UE receive | | | | | | band, but | | | | | | within the | | | | | | first 15 MHz | | | | | | below or | | | | | | above the UE | | | | | | receive | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For | | | | | | each carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is valid for | | | | | | two | | | | | | frequencies: | | | | | | | | | | | | > a. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > -BW/2 - | | | | | | > F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | > and | | | | | | > | | | | | | > b. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > +BW/2 + | | | | | | > F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | F | | | | | | ~Interferer~ | | | | | | range values | | | | | | for unwanted | | | | | | modulated | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal are | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | center | | | | | | frequencies | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The | | | | | | absolute | | | | | | value of the | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | offset | | | | | | F | | | | | | ~interferer~ | | | | | | (offset) | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | further | | | | | | adjusted to | | | | | | MHz with SCS | | | | | | the | | | | | | sub-carrier | | | | | | spacing of | | | | | | the wanted | | | | | | signal in | | | | | | MHz. The | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | is an NR | | | | | | signal with | | | | | | 15 kHz SCS. | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+
#### 8.2.4.2 Out-of-band blocking
Out-of-band band blocking in existing specification for licensed bands is
defined for an unwanted CW interfering signal falling more than 30 MHz below
or above the UE receive band. For the first 15 MHz below or above the UE
receive band the appropriate in-band blocking or adjacent channel selectivity
shall be applied.
For NR SL enhancement, RAN4 reuse the out-of-band blocking requirements for NR
Uu as shown in Table 8.2.4.2-1 and Table 8.2.4.2-2.
Table 8.2.4.2-1: Out-of-band blocking parameters for NR SL enhancement
RX parameter Units Channel bandwidth
* * *
                                                          5 MHz                                                      10 MHz   20 MHz   30 MHz   40 MHz
Power in transmission bandwidth configuration dBm P~REFSENS_V2X~ + channel
bandwidth specific value below  
dB 6 6  
NOTE: Reference measurement channel is A.7.2.
Table 8.2.4.2-2: Out of band blocking for NR SL enhancement
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | NR band | P | Units | Range 1 | Range 2 | Range 3 | | | arameter | | | | | +==========+==========+=======+==========+==========+==========+ | n14 | P~int | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | | | erferer~ | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | F~int | MHz | -60 \ 4400 | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
### 8.2.5 Spurious response
Spurious response is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to receive a wanted
signal on its assigned channel frequency without exceeding a given degradation
due to the presence of an unwanted CW interfering signal at any other
frequency at which a response is obtained.
For NR SL enhancement, RAN4 reuse the spurious response for NR Uu as shown in
Table 8.2.5-1 and Table 8.2.5-2.
Table 8.2.5-1: Spurious response parameters for NR SL enhancement
RX parameter Units Channel bandwidth
* * *
                                                           5 MHz                                                      10 MHz   20 MHz   30 MHz   40 MHz
Power in transmission bandwidth configuration dBm P~REFSENS_V2X~ + channel
bandwidth specific value below  
dB 6 6  
NOTE 1: Reference measurement channel is A.7.2
Table 8.2.5-2: Spurious response for NR SL enhancement
* * *
Parameter Unit Level P~Interferer~ (CW) dBm -44 F~Interferer~ MHz Spurious
response frequencies
* * *
### 8.2.6 Intermodulation characteristics
Intermodulation response rejection is a measure of the capability of the
receiver to receive a wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of two or more interfering signals which have a specific frequency
relationship to the wanted signal. The wide band intermodulation requirement
is defined using modulated NR carrier and CW signal as interferer.
For NR SL enhancement, RAN4 reuse the intermodulation characteristics for NR
Uu as shown in Table 8.2.6-1.
Table 8.2.6-1: Wide band intermodulation for NR SL enhancement
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NR | Rx | Units | Ch | | | | | | band | para | | annel | | | | | | | meter | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | | | | 5 MHz | 10 | 20 | 30 | 40 | | | | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | n14 | Power | dBm | P~REF | | | | | | | in | | SENS\ | | | | | | | Tr | | _V2X~ | | | | | | | ansmi | | + | | | | | | | ssion | | ch | | | | | | | Band | | annel | | | | | | | width | | band | | | | | | | Con | | width | | | | | | | figur | | spe | | | | | | | ation | | cific | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | below | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | 6 | 6 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | P | dBm | -46 | | | | | | | ~Inte | | | | | | | | | rfere | | | | | | | | | r\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | (CW) | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | P | dBm | -46 | | | | | | | ~Inte | | | | | | | | | rfere | | | | | | | | | r\ 2~ | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | Modul | | | | | | | | | ated) | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | BW | MHz | 5MHz | | | | | | | ~Inte | | | | | | | | | rfere | | | | | | | | | r\ 2~ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | F | MHz | -BW/2 | | | | | | | ~Inte | | -- | | | | | | | rfere | | 7.5 | | | | | | | r\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | (Of | | / | | | | | | | fset) | | | | | | | | | | | +BW/2 | | | | | | | | | + 7.5 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | F | MHz | 2 * | | | | | | | ~Inte | | F | | | | | | | rfere | | ~Inte | | | | | | | r\ 2~ | | rfere | | | | | | | (Of | | r\ 1~ | | | | | | | fset) | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | .7.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | ferer | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | QPSK | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | PSSCH | | | | | | | | | conta | | | | | | | | | ining | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | sym | | | | | | | | | bols. | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | ormal | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | yclic | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | refix | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
# 9 Conclusion and recommendations
According to the coexistence simulation results and analysis, RAN4 made
consensus for the NR SL enhancement UE will be coexisted with legacy NR system
for PC2 V2X UE, intr-abnd con-current V2X UE and NR PS UE with sidelink
operation.
For the leftover issues, RAN4 studied the coexistence evaluation in section
5.1.1 and specified the PC2 V2X UE RF requirements in section 5.1.2 and 5.1.3.
To support intra-band con-current V2X UE operation, RAN4 studied coexistence
evaluation in section 5.2.2 and specified RF requirements in section 5.2.3 and
5.2.4.
The SL enhancement for advanced V2X service and public safety and other
commercial use case, RAN4 evaluated the coexistence analysis in section 6.1
and specified the NR V2X UE RF requirements to support the following
scenarios.
\- Specify operating NR V2X bands and system parameters (Section 7)
\- Specify RF core requirements (Section 8)
\- Specify Tx requirements including A-MPR requirements for PC1/PC3 PS UE
\- Specify Rx requirements
Above RF core requirements for NR SL enhancement, RAN4 will specify NR SL
enhancement UE RF core requirements in TS38.101-1 for NR PC2 V2X operation,
intra-band con-current V2X UE and PS UE using sidelink in FR1.
# [ ]{.underline}Annex A: Change history
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **C | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hist | | | | | | | | | ory** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **D | * |** T | * | ** | ** | **Su |** New | | ate**| *Meet | Doc** | _CR_ _| Rev_ _| Cat_ _| bject | vers | | | ing_ _| | | | | /Comm | ion_ _| | | | | | | | ent_ * | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-21 | | | | TR3 | 0.0.1 | | 21-01 | #98e | 00282 | | | | 8.xxx | | | | | | | | | v0 | | | | | | | | | .0.1: | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | ske | | | | | | | | | leton | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | SL | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | nhanc | | | | | | | | | ement | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-21 | | | | TR3 | 0.1.0 | | 21-04 | #98 | 04969 | | | | 8.785 | | | | bis-e | | | | | v0 | | | | | | | | | .1.0: | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | SL | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | nhanc | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | el-17 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-21 | | | | TR3 | 0.2.0 | | 21-05 | \ | 08115 | | | | 8.785 | | | | #99-e | | | | | v0 | | | | | | | | | .2.0: | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | SL | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | nhanc | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | el-17 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-21 | | | | TR3 | 0.3.0 | | 21-08 | # | 12767 | | | | 8.785 | | | | 100-e | | | | | v0 | | | | | | | | | .3.0: | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | SL | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | nhanc | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | el-17 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-21 | | | | TR3 | 0.4.0 | | 21-11 | # | 18081 | | | | 8.785 | | | | 101-e | | | | | v0 | | | | | | | | | .4.0: | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | SL | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | nhanc | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | el-17 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-22 | | | | TR3 | 0.5.0 | | 22-01 | \ | 00833 | | | | 8.785 | | | | #101- | | | | | v0 | | | | bis-e | | | | | .5.0: | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | SL | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | nhanc | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | el-17 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-22 | | | | TR3 | 1.0.0 | | 22-03 | # | 04152 | | | | 8.785 | | | | 102-e | | | | | v1 | | | | | | | | | .0.0: | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | SL | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | nhanc | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | el-17 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-22 | | | | TR3 | 1.1.0 | | 22-05 | # | 07963 | | | | 8.785 | | | | 103-e | | | | | v1 | | | | | | | | | .1.0: | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | SL | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | nhanc | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | el-17 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-22 | | | | TR3 | 1.2.0 | | 22-05 | # | 07966 | | | | 8.785 | | | | 103-e | | | | | v1 | | | | | | | | | .2.0: | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | SL | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | nhanc | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | el-17 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | RP-2 | | | | TR3 | 1.3.0 | | 22-06 | #96 | 21185 | | | | 8.785 | | | | | | | | | v1 | | | | | | | | | .3.0: | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | SL | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | nhanc | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | el-17 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | Pres | | | | | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | -step | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | roval | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | RAN | | | | | | | | | pl | | | | | | | | | enary | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+