# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This clause shall start on a new page.
The present document ...
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] R1-2007245, "Reply LS on feasibility of UL FPTx modes and transparent TxD
for certain UE implementation", RAN1
...
[x] \ \[ ([up to and
including]{yyyy[-mm]\|V\}[onwards])]: \"\\".
It is preferred that the reference to 21.905 be the first in the list.
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
This clause and its three subclauses are mandatory. The contents shall be
shown as \"void\" if the TS/TR does not define any terms, symbols, or
abbreviations.
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
Definition format (Normal)
**\ :** \.
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format (EW)
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Abbreviation format (EW)
\ \
# 4 TxD Basic Requirements
Editor's note: This clause intends to summarize the key part of technical
agreements and related background of basic requirements for TxD.
## 4.1 Antenna number and declaration
### 4.1.1 Agreements
Only two antenna connectors were considered for TxD feature.
UE declares which connectors will be active per band under test. TE needs to
detect ACK and NACK and any other expected response from UE from all declared
TX antenna connectors.
\- The word "active" can be replaced by "used for TxD during one test
procedure". (Not necessarily to have transmission all the time.)
\- UE declaration needs to describe exact two antenna connectors under test.
### 4.1.2 Study process
Only two antenna connectors were considered for TxD feature and this has been
used in multiple cases and appeared in multiple WFs.
The earliest case can reference to agreed WF R4-2005652 for eMIMO in
RAN4#94-e-bis, in which the following agreements were made:
> \- _If transparent TxD is used in Scenario-1:_
>
> \- _Transmission come out from two antenna connectors;_
In RAN4#97-e meeting, in [R4-2016959] and a WF [R4-2016830] was also agreed.
The agreements reached are as following:
> \- _Declaration for Default TX Connector_
>
> \- _UE declares which connectors will be active per band under test. TE
> needs to detect ACK and NACK and any other expected response from UE from
> all declared TX antenna connectors._
>
> \- _The word "active" can be replaced by "used for TxD during one test
> procedure". (Not necessarily to have transmission all the time.)_
>
> \- _UE declaration needs to describe exact two antenna connectors under
> test._
In agreed MPR evaluation assumptions R4-2105331, two antennas are also
confirmed in :
> \- _RF assumptions:_
>
> \- _4dB post PA losses_
>
> \- _10dB antenna isolation_
>
> \- _Equal power and Equal back-off power split for the two antennas_
## 4.2 Summation for Power and Emission
### 4.2.1 Agreements
RAN4 agree to define requirements for MOP and emission so that power is
measured correctly for all implementations, including UE with transparent TxD:
\- Use "requirements are defined as the sum of powers from both connectors".
\- This shall be interpreted as: Measure the power and emissions per connector
and then sum them up afterwards.
\- RAN4 will clean-up all requirements related to summing the powers and
emissions, including UL MIMO, UL full power transmission requirement.
### 4.2.2 Study process
This issue has been discussed for how to write emission requirements for
several meetings, and gradually an agreement has been made in the agreed WF
R4-2011768 in RAN4#96-e in which the following agreements were made:
> _Summing the Powers and Emissions_
>
> \- _RAN4 agree to define requirements for MOP and emission so that power is
> measured correctly for all implementations, including UE with transparent
> TxD:_
>
> \- _Use "requirements are defined as the sum of powers from both
> connectors"._
>
> \- _This shall be interpreted as: Measure the power and emissions per
> connector and then sum them up afterwards._
>
> \- _RAN4 will clean-up all requirements related to summing the powers and
> emissions, including UL MIMO, UL full power transmission requirement._
## 4.3 Transmit modulation quality
### 4.3.1 Error Vector Magnitude
#### 4.3.1.1 Agreements
For TxD, the latest agreements are as following:
> _Proposals:_
>
> _Option 1: As in agreed WF R4-2008465_
$$EVM = \sqrt{(P_{1}_\text{EVM}_{1}^{2} + \ P_{2}_\text{EVM}_{2}^{2})/(P1\ + \
P2)}$$
> _Option 2: As in R4-2107369:_
$$EVM = \frac{P_{1}{\ \bullet EVM}_{1} + {P_{2}\ \bullet EVM}_{2}}{P_{1} +
P_{2}}$$
> _Option 3: RAN4 considers to update the endorsed draft CR for UL Tx
> diversity EVM measurement method with the method presented in R4-2107112. (R
> &S)_
>
> _Agreements(GTW):_
>
> _Option 2_
>
> \- _For UL MIMO, Option 3 or options along those lines can be further
> considered. Once a solution is agreed, RAN4 can discuss from which release
> onwards it applies_
#### 4.3.1.2 Study process
Originally there was a different agreement from the final one. In agreed WF
R4-2008465 in RAN4#95-e as following:
> _Issue 3-3-4: EVM for Transparent TxD_
>
> \- _Agree EVM defined as_
$$EVM = \sqrt{(P_{1}_\text{EVM}_{1}^{2} + \ P_{2}_\text{EVM}_{2}^{2})/(P1\ + \
P2)}$$
In RAN4#96-e, new scheme was proposed in R4-2011519, and the EVM discussion
was re-started, there is one agreed WF R4-2011768 in which the following
agreements were made
> _EVM Requirement for Transparent TxD_
>
> \- _Background:_
>
> \- _In RAN4#95e, RAN4 agree to define EVM for transparent TxD as:_
$$EVM = \sqrt{(P_{1}_\text{EVM}_{1}^{2} + \ P_{2}_\text{EVM}_{2}^{2})/(P1\ + \
P2)}$$
> \- _RAN4 further study new test method and EVM definition proposed in
> R4-2011519:_
>
> \- _FFS whether or not to use new EVM definition to replace above
> definition._
>
> \- _RAN4 agree the location in Specification to capture EVM definition for
> transparent TxD, as_
>
> \- _Annex F_
After continuous discussion, in RAN4#98-e-bis, in the WF R4-2105330 is for
general TxD and power class issue following agreements were made.
> \- _CR related -- EVM_
>
> \- _Proposals:_
>
> _Option 1: As in agreed WF R4-2008465_
$$EVM = \sqrt{(P_{1}_\text{EVM}_{1}^{2} + \ P_{2}_\text{EVM}_{2}^{2})/(P1\ + \
P2)}$$
> _Option 2: As in R4-2107369:_
$$EVM = \frac{P_{1}{\ \bullet EVM}_{1} + {P_{2}\ \bullet EVM}_{2}}{P_{1} +
P_{2}}$$
> _Option 3: RAN4 considers to update the endorsed draft CR for UL Tx
> diversity EVM measurement method with the method presented in R4-2107112. (R
> &S)_
>
> _Agreements(GTW):_
>
> _Option 2_
>
> _For UL MIMO, Option 3 or options along those lines can be further
> considered. Once a solution is agreed, RAN4 can discuss from which release
> onwards it applies_
### 4.3.2 Spectrum flatness
#### 4.3.2.1 Agreements
The agreements were as following:
> _Agreements_
>
> _Based on R4-2108793 with the following updated equation for composite
> equalizer:_
$$EC(f) = \frac{P_{1}{\ \bullet |EC}_{1}\left( f \right)| + {P_{2}\ \bullet
|EC}_{2}(f)|}{P_{1} + P_{2}}$$
#### 4.3.2.2 Study process
This issue has been raised in RAN4#99-e in R4-2108793, and agreements were
documented in the agreed WF R4-210774.
## 4.4 Maximum output power reduction
### 4.4.1 General
#### 4.4.1.1 Agreements
Here are some early stage agreements before a comprehensive evaluation.
It has been agreed that MPRs for UL-MIMO would need to be re-visited.
For MPR Requirement for Transparent TxD:
> _RAN4 agree MPR defined for TxD is applied to the total output power rather
> than at each antenna connector_
For TxD and UL-MIMO, it has been agreed:
> _2 Tx MPR should be the same MPR requirement for TX Diversity and UL MIMO
> for the same power class._
For eMIMO and ULFPTx related, The agreement reached is as following:
> _"Chair: It is agreed that one set of MPR requirements should be adopted for
> both UL MIMO (including ULFPTx) and TxD"_
WF R4-2105331 is agreed MPR evaluation assumptions, and it is agreed that an
evaluation is necessary to further progress the MPR work.
The key agreements and the related evaluation are incorporated in clause
4.4.2, 4.4.3 etc.
#### 4.4.1.2 Study process
Here are some early stage studies before a comprehensive evaluation.
In RAN4#94-e-bis, in the WF R4-2005216, it has been agreed
> \- **R15 UL MIMO emission requirements shall apply to UE level.**
>
> \- **Relating MPRs are need to be re-visited.**
In RAN4#95-e, a WF R4-2008465 was agreed in which:
> _Issue 3-3-2: Unwanted emissions for Transparent TxD: MPR study_
>
> _Possible WF:_
>
> _Simulation/measurement assumptions for MPR study for 2Tx UE's_
>
> _Follow 29 dBm WI assumptions in R4-2005190_
>
> _Two 20dBm Tx chains are not precluded_
>
> _Two 23dBm Tx chains are not precluded_
>
> _Two 26dBm Tx chains are precluded_
>
> _MPRs are defined for each power class separately_
>
> _PC3 = 2x20dBm_
>
> _PC2 = 2x23dBm_
In RAN4#96-e, the agreed WF R4-2011768 has the following contents:
> _MPR Requirement for Transparent TxD_
>
> _RAN4 agree MPR defined for TxD is applied to the total output power rather
> than at each antenna connector_
In the meantime, for eMIMO WI, the MPR was an remaining issue:
_"The Chairmain commented that for PC2 and PC3, MPR issues related to 2TX,
including UL-MIMO, uplink full power transmission, and TxD, will be further
discussed in TEI16."_
In RAN4#97-e meeting, the transparent TxD was discussed under TEI16 as
documented in [R4-2016959] and a WF [R4-2016830] was also agreed.
> _MPR for Transparent and UL MIMO_
>
> _Whether 2 Tx MPR should be the same MPR requirement for TX Diversity and UL
> MIMO for the same power class._
>
> _Agreement_
\- Option 1: Yes
For eMIMO and ULFPTx related, there is very few maintenance remains and only
MPR was discussed. The agreement reached is as following:
_"Chair: It is agreed that one set of MPR requirements should be adopted for
both UL MIMO (including ULFPTx) and TxD"_
In RAN4#98-e-bis, the MPR was extensively discussed, but no agreements can be
reached, but an evaluation is agreed to be started:
> _CR related - MPR_
>
> _Proposals:_
>
> _Option 1: As in last meeting's Endorsed CR R4-2107307_
>
> _Option 2: Base on the proposals in R4-2104538_
>
> _1.5dB offset for Edge and outer, 0.5dB offset for inner compared to 1Tx_
>
> _Option 3: Reconsider separating MPR requirements for UL-MIMO and TxD_
>
> _Also consider A-MPR impact in next issue and as in R4-2107283_
>
> _Option 4: Keep the same MPR with 1Tx_
>
> _Option 5: Other solution_
>
> _Agreements (GTW) :_
>
> _RAN4 to start a evaluation campaign to derive the MPR values for both UL-
> MIMO and TxD, with agreed evaluation assumptions and UE implementations.
> Decisions will be made in the May meeting_
Another WF R4-2105331 is MPR evaluation assumptions, it is agreed that an
evaluation is necessary to further progress the MPR work, and a detailed
assumptions were agreed. The contents were not listed.
Later studies are not listed here in a meeting by meeting manner. The key
evaluation and agreements are incorporated in clause 4.4.2, 4.4.3 etc.
### 4.4.2 MPR evaluation for TxD
#### 4.4.2.1 Architecture and reverse IMD impact
Transparent transmit diversity was defined in Release 15 but no specific MPR
has been evaluated at the time and especially PC2 for band n77/78 and 79 was
agreed to be based on 2Tx with two 23dBm capable PAs.
In Release 16, UL MIMO feature was also defined for PC3 and assumed that two
23dBm PAs were available thus the 1Tx PC3 MPR could be reused. In Release 16
also, PC1.5 power class was defined based on a 2Tx architecture using two PC2
PAs and related MPR was evaluated including reverse IMD impact and specified.
In Release 17, it was agreed that proper evaluation of 2Tx PC2 MPR for TxD was
needed as 1TX PC2 MPR could not apply as is due to additional non-linearity
related to Reverse IMD but also from a slightly different linearity operating
point.
Because of the reverse IMD aspects, similation based on AM/PM modelling of PAs
is not properly describing the effect of the PAs cross-coupling and this
specific two PAs measurements must be conducted with careful attention on
waveform applied at each PA inputs to avoid cancellation/re-construction
mechanisms.
As it was agreed that TxD and UL MIMO should use the same MPR requirement for
the same power class and architecture, to have 2Tx MPR requirement that is
valid for both TxD and UL MIMO in different modes, the evaluation is based on
using waveform representative of:
TxD operation with SD-CDD (Small Delay-Cyclic Deleay Diversity) with properly
chosen delay between each transmit path
Single stream UL MIMO operation with properly chosen quadrature phase offset
between each transmit path
Two stream UL MIMO operation with uncorrelated signals in each transmit paths.
Similarly, proper PA linearity calibration is needed for the different cases:
PC3 (23dBm) capable PA lienarity operating point is based on reaching 22dBm
with 30dB ACLR for 20MHz DFT-s-OFDM QPSK 100RB0 waveform
PC2 (26dBm) capable PA lienarity operating point is based on reaching 25dBm
with 31dB ACLR for 20MHz DFT-s-OFDM QPSK 100RB0 waveform
Since emissions requirements are valid at the UE level and the tests are
performed on antenna connectors it was agreed that 2Tx UE emissions are
evaluated by using the power sum of emissions at each antenna connector. It
was also agreed that EVM will be measured on each connector and a compound EVM
will be derived.
In the following chapter, we will discuss the different architectures that
have been used as baseline assumption for the 2Tx MPR evaluation and over
architectural assumptions.
#### 4.4.2.2 Baseline architecture for different power classes
##### 4.4.2.2.1 2Tx PC3 with TxD
For 2Tx PC3 with TxD, consistent with Release 16, the baseline architecture is
based on two PC3 (23dBm) capable PAs and as such the 1Tx PC3 MPR is applicable
since each PA can meet the 1Tx MPR. Furthermore, full UL transmit power is
feasible since both antennas support a PC3 capable PA.
It should be noted that 1Tx PC3 A-MPR can also be reused with the same
justification.
Other architectures may be implemented for 2TX PC3, for example:
Two 20dBm PAs
One 23dBm PA with one 20dBm PA.
Although not precluded, these other implementations must comply with the PC3
1Tx in both 2Tx and full UL transmit operation.
##### 4.4.2.2.2 2Tx PC2 with TxD
For 2Tx PC2 with TxD, the baseline architecture is based on two PC3 (26dBm)
capable PAs, but it can't reuse the 1TX PC2 MPR since there is additional
reverse IMD contribution to emissions and at the linearity calibration point,
each PC3 PA is 1dB short in meeting the PC2 31dB ACLR.
In order to allow consistent evaluation of PC2 2Tx MPR across companies, the
following assumptions were used:
PA calibration: each PC3 PAs are calibrated for 30dB ACLR 1dB MPR for 20MHz
QPSK DFT-s-OFDM 100RB0 waveform
Post PA losses of 4dB
Antenna Isolation of 10dB.
Although not precluded, other implementations must comply with the PC2 2Tx MPR
defined for the baseline architecture, and benefit from better linearity. As
such, they could benefit from better MPR requirement, but this optimization is
postponed to later work in RAN4, for example architectures including one or
two PC2 capable PAs:
Two 26dBm PAs, in this case it was shown that a specific 2Tx MPR could be
derived from the PC1.5 MPR as it is the same architecture and ACLR target thus
MPR values are just reduced by 3dB (negative values after the 3dB reductions
are clamped to 0dB) since the reference power is reduced to 26dBm instead of
29dBm. UL full power can be delivered on both antennas without needed any
swapping.
One 26dBm PA with one 23dBm PA, in this case it was shown that 1Tx PC2 MPR
since one of the PA is already capable of the PC2 MPR but benefits from an
intrinsic 3dB backoff that is more than enough to compensate for the smaller
PA reduced linearity and the additional reverse IMD contribution. Furthermore,
UL full power is feasible without TxD.
##### 4.4.2.2.3 Comparison to smartphone and FWA 2Tx PC1.5 case
Even if this report is focussed on PC2 TxD, it is of interest to compare this
work with similar work conducted in Release 17 for PC1.5 MPR optimization.
Since PC1.5 is also based on 2Tx architecture using two PC2 (26dBm) capable
PAs it suffers from the same reverse IMD impact but not from the reduced ACLR
linearity since both PC2 and PC1.5 need to meet 31dB ACLR.
In this MPR optimization work, for smartphone the same type of architecture
assumptions has been used than for the PC2 TxD work:
PA calibration: each PC2 PAs are calibrated for 31dB ACLR 1dB MPR for 20MHz
QPSK DFT-s-OFDM 100RB0 waveform
Post PA losses of 4dB
Antenna Isolation of 10dB
Use of SD-CDD, phase shifted and uncorrelated waveforms
On top of this another set of assumptions were used to reflect better antenna
design of FWA devices and especially improved antenna isolation which, in
turn, would reduce the impact of reverse IMD. It was found however that beyond
some antenna isolation level, the PA outputs can couple to the other PA inputs
via limited PCB isolation. Given that further limitation, it was decided that
imoroved PCB isolation is also assmed for FWA but that antenna isolation is
still limited to 20dB resulting in following MPR evaluation assumptions:
PA calibration: each PC2 PAs are calibrated for 31dB ACLR 1dB MPR for 20MHz
QPSK DFT-s-OFDM 100RB0 waveform
Post PA losses of 4dB
Antenna Isolation of 20dB
Use of SD-CDD, phase shifted and uncorrelated waveforms.
##### 4.4.2.2.4 Other 2Tx MPR evaluations in Release 17
It should be noted that several 2CC with 2Tx cases were evaluated in Release
17 on top this PC2 TxD effort:
PC2 contiguous UL CA with two PC2 PAs and 2LO (1PA per CC)
PC2 contiguous UL CA with two PC3 PAs and 1LO using TxD
PC2 contiguous UL CA with UL MIMO two PC3 PAs and 1LO
PC2 non-contiguous UL CA with two PC3 PAs and 1LO using TxD
PC2 non-contiguous UL CA with two PC2 PAs and 2LO (1PA per CC)
PC2 non-contiguous UL CA with one PC2 PA and one PC3 PA and 2LO (1PA per CC)
In all these cases the same 10dB antenna isolation and 4dB post PA losses
where use with the associated PC2/PC3 PA calibrations and specific 2Tx
waveforms.
#### 4.4.2.3 PC2 2Tx MPR measurements results and specification
##### 4.4.2.3.1 Initial evaluation results
Results provided in RAN4#100e for the basis of the MPR table proposal were
based on measurements of two coupled PAs with the following assumptions:
PA calibration: each PC3 PAs are calibrated for 30dB ACLR 1dB MPR for 20MHz
QPSK DFT-s-OFDM 100RB0 waveform
Post PA losses of 4dB
Antenna Isolation of 10dB.
Measurements included a selected set of waveforms with separate waveforms for
each path representative of the the 3 2Tx operations and carefully selected to
avoid cancelling/re-constructing behavior when coupling the PAs:
QPSK CP-OFDM and DFT-s-OFDM waveforms for 5/20/50MHz with 15kHz SCS
600ns delay SD-CDD waveforms for TxD evaluation
90deg phase shifted waveform for 1layer UL MIMO
Uncorrelated waveforms for 2 layer UL MIMO.
In order to provide a direct reading of the reverse IMD and PA linearity
impact, the two PC3 PA measurements were compared to the measurement of one of
the PA but biased for PC2 operaton,
When compared to 1Tx PC2 PA measurements in the same conditions, the following
additional back-off were identified:
Edge allocations can reuse 1Tx PC2 MPR as they are limited by the spectrum
shape in relation to BB filtering (WOLA) and are not dominated by PA non-
linearity
Outer allocations need 1dB additional back-off compared to corresponding 1Tx
PC2 MPR
Inner allocation need 1dB additional back-off compared to corresponding 1Tx
PC2 MPR.
Some discussion was also provided on the impact of RIMD to meet emissions for
higher order modulations:
with higher back-off already available, the additional back-off can be reduced
until limitation comes from tight EVM budget. For that same reason, CP-OFDM
already having higher MPR can have slightly lower additional MPR, then
everything is within the 0.5dB granularity.
Beyond this additional MPR needed to meet emissions, additional back-off is
also needed for high order modulations cases to compensate for the additional
contribution of RIMD and 1dB lower ACLR linearity. Earlier contributions [4]
estimated that **256 QAM DFT-s waveforms need 1 dB more MPR and CP-OFDM 2 dB
more MPR for Tx diversity UEs**. To be consistent, we also suggest that 0.5dB
be added for DFT 64QAM and 1dB for CP.
Based on this input, the following way forwards were agreed in RAN4#100e
Way Forward for 2Tx PC3 operation:
UE declaring PC3 and TxD or UL MIMO with or without **_ULFPTx_** support shall
meet 1Tx PC3 MPR table
2TX TxD or UL MIMO PC3 single CC operation specification can use the same 1Tx
MPR as in **Table 6.2.2-1 in 38.1010-1.**
Way forward on 2Tx PC2 MPR for UEs implementing two PC3 PAs.
Table 4.4.2.3.1-1: Maximum power reduction (MPR) for 2Tx power class 2
Modulation MPR (dB)
* * *
               Edge RB allocations   Outer RB allocations   Inner RB allocations
DFT-s-OFDM Pi/2 BPSK ≤ [3.5] ≤ [1] ≤ [0] QPSK ≤ [3.5] ≤ [2] ≤ [0.5] 16 QAM ≤
[3.5] ≤ [2.5] ≤ [1.5] 64 QAM ≤ [3.5] ≤ [3]  
256 QAM ≤ [5.5]  
CP-OFDM QPSK ≤ [3.5] ≤ [3.5] ≤ [2] 16 QAM ≤ [3.5] ≤ [3.5] ≤ [2.5] 64 QAM ≤
[4.5]  
256 QAM ≤ [8.5]
Way forward for MPR for 2Tx PC2 ULFPTx MIMO based on at least one PC2 PA:
Further study if PC2 + PC3 architecture can reuse 1Tx PC2 MPR
Architecture using two PC2 PA can reuse 1Tx PC2 MPR similarly to the agreement
for PC3
It is further studied if an improved MPR can be based on the PC1.5MPR since it
correspond to the same PA configuration and emission requirements
(ACLR/SEM/EVM) with only a 3dB difference in the reference power for MPR
Rel-17 Signaling to differentiate sets of PC2 MPR requirements for different
PA configurations can be further studied in phase 2.
Additional input was provided in the next meeting by another company which
allowed further refinement on higher order modulations and some critical
allocations.
It was also decided that a single set of PC2 2Tx requirements will be used in
Release 17 but that 1 antenna port transmission should take the architecture
in to account (presence of a full power PA or not).
Since it was agreed that both UL MIMO and TxD would use the same 2Tx MPR table
for the same power class and UE architecture, it was decided that all the 2Tx
MPR tables would be placed in the UL MIMO section D and the TxD section G
would point to the relevant tables.
##### 4.4.2.3.2 Final MPR values and comparison to other cases
After adjustments of the MPR based on two companies' inputs (highlighted in
yellow) the 38.101-1 specification adopted the following MPR table:
Table 4.4.2.3.2-1: Maximum power reduction (MPR) for power class 2 with dual
Tx
Modulation MPR (dB)
* * *
               Edge RB allocations   Outer RB allocations   Inner RB allocations
DFT-s-OFDM Pi/2 BPSK ≤ 3.5 ≤ 1 0 QPSK ≤ 3.5 ≤ 2 0.5 16 QAM ≤ 3.5 ≤ 2.5 ≤ 1.5
64 QAM ≤ 3.5 ≤ 3  
256 QAM ≤ 5.5  
CP-OFDM QPSK ≤ 4.0 ≤ 3.5 ≤ 2 16 QAM ≤ 4.0 ≤ 3.5 ≤ 2.5 64 QAM ≤ 4.5  
256 QAM ≤ 8.0
To check the consistency of the MPR requirements, it is useful to compare 2Tx
PC2 MPR (highlighted in yellow) with the PC2 1Tx MPR and PC1.5 2Tx smartphone
and FWA MPR at least for DFT-s-OFDM QPSK inner allocations. This comparison is
shown in the table below.
Table 4.4.2.3.2-2: Maximum power reduction (MPR) comparision
Case PC2 1Tx PC2 2Tx PC1.5 PC1.5 FWA
* * *
Inner MPR [dB] ≤ 0 ≤ 0.5 ≤ 0.5 ≤ 0
The 0.5dB difference between 1Tx and 2Tx PC2 is representative of the additive
impact of reverse IMD and the slightly lower PA linearity.
For PC1.5 MPR, the smartphone 0.5dB worse MPR compared to 1Tx PC2 MPR is
representative of the reverse IMD impact while for the FWA case, thanks to the
higher antenna isolation the Reverse IMD impact is negligible.
#### 4.4.2.4 PC2 1Tx fallback MPR depending on architecture
After consensus was reached on the 2Tx PC2 MPR for PC2 and it was agreed that
in the scope of release 17 a single MPR table will cover all the different PA
architectures, it was still needed to agree on what the one antenna port
fallbacks MPR would apply. This essentially depends on the presence of a full
powwr capable PA or not.
For one antenna port operation, it was agreed that 2Tx PC2 MPR would still
apply to UEs declaring TxD (no full power PA is assumed) while UEs not
declaring TxD (assuming at least one PC2 PA is present), the 1Tx PC2 MPR would
apply.
## 4.5 Additional Maximum output power reduction
### 4.5.1 Agreements
Editor's note: The final requirements have not been set yet.
There were concerns that MPR change would mean A-MPR would have to be
impacted. After some discussions, it has been agreed postpone the discussion
on A-MPR and treat MPR first.
### 4.5.2 Study process
Editor's note: The discussion process has not been completed yet.
In RAN4#98-e-bis, the A-MPR issue was raised and following agreements were
made.
> _CR related - MPR_
>
> _Proposals:_
>
> _Option 1: As in last meeting's Endorsed CR R4-2107307_
>
> _Option 2: Base on the proposals in R4-2104538_
>
> _1.5dB offset for Edge and outer, 0.5dB offset for inner compared to 1Tx_
>
> _Option 3: Reconsider separating MPR requirements for UL-MIMO and TxD_
>
> _Also consider A-MPR impact in next issue and as in R4-2107283_
>
> _Option 4: Keep the same MPR with 1Tx_
>
> _Option 5: Other solution_
>
> _Agreements (GTW) :_
>
> _RAN4 to start a evaluation campaign to derive the MPR values for both UL-
> MIMO and TxD, with agreed evaluation assumptions and UE implementations.
> Decisions will be made in the May meeting_
>
> _CR related - A-MPR_
>
> _Proposals_
>
> _Option 1: A-MPR as band specific requirements could be decoupled from the
> general TxD requirements_
>
> _Option 2: Keeping the agreement of applying same MPR for UL MIMO and Tx
> Diversity would mean changed to the UL MIMO AMPR, too._
>
> _Agreements:_
>
> _Postpone the discussion and treat MPR first_
## 4.6 Adjacent channel leakage ratio
### 4.6.1 Agreements
For TxD, the following agreements have been made:
> _ACLR~UE~ = (P~ADJ,\ TX1~ + P~ADJ,\ TX2~) / (P~OWN,\ TX1~ + P~OWN,\ TX2~)_
>
> _Where_
>
> _P~ADJ,\ TX1~ = power of the adjacent channel on TX port 1_
>
> _P~OWN,\ TX1~ = power of own channel on TX port 1_
>
> _And TX2 similarly._
### 4.6.2 Study process
In RAN4#95-e, the ACLR for TxD had been agreed in WF R4-2008465.
# 5 Other related requirements
Editor's note: This clause intends to summarize the key part of technical
agreements and related background of related requirements.
## 5.1 Power Class clarification
### 5.1.1 SA
#### 5.1.1.1 Agreements
For both Rel-15 and Rel-16, there is the same clarification for 1-port fall
back of SA UE power class for UL-MIMO as following:
> _"If UE is scheduled for single antenna-port PUSCH transmission by DCI
> format 0_0 or by DCI format 0_1 for single antenna port codebook based
> transmission, the requirements in clause 6.2.1 apply [for the power class as
> indicated by the ue-PowerClass field in capability
> signalling.]{.underline}"_
This means that the 1-port fall back of SA UE power class for UL-MIMO is
aligned to the power class as indicated by the ue-PowerClass field in
capability signalling.
#### 5.1.1.2 Study process
There is a debate on 1-port transmission fall back mode for SA in both Rel-15
and Rel-16.
For Rel-16, in the agreed WF R4-2005652 for eMIMO in RAN4#94-e-bis, there are
some agreements regarding the TxD applicability and relationship with eMIMO
features:
> **_Transparent Tx Diversity (TxD) in Rel-16 (TBD its applicability for UEs
> supporting or not supporting full power transmission)_**
>
> _..._
>
> _From Rel-16 and beyond, SA UE declaring PC2 HPUE shall have 26dBm MOP for
> both 1TX port transmission and 2TX UL-MIMO (if supported)_
>
> _For UE with 23dBm+23dBm PA architecture, transparent TxD shall be used to
> have 26dBm MOP for 1TX port transmission._
>
> _TBD how the requirements will be specified_
>
> _Conclusion of Rel-16 discussion will have no impact on Rel-15_
And there are following description in Rel-16 38.101-1:
> _"If UE is scheduled for single antenna-port PUSCH transmission by DCI
> format 0_0 or by DCI format 0_1 for single antenna port codebook based
> transmission, the requirements in clause 6.2.1 apply [for the power class as
> indicated by the ue-PowerClass field in capability
> signalling.]{.underline}"_
For Rel-15, an agreement was reached in R4-2107740 in RAN4#99-e,
> _Power class related- Fallback to 1-port Tx for SA in Rel-15_
>
> _Proposals_
>
> _Option 1: Confirm ue-PowerClass should always be supported for 1-port
> transmission fall back mode for SA in Rel-15._
>
> _UE do not support TxD capability would equip a full power chain_
>
> _For UE support TxD capability, when falls back to 1-port transmission, it
> is also reasonable to suppose it would use TxD to achieve ue-PowerClass in
> standalone mode_
>
> _Option 2: Others_
>
> _Tentative agreements:_
>
> _Option 1_
>
> _Discuss in next meeting whether Rel-15 CR would be introduced to clarify
> the understanding_
In RAN4#100-e, no agreements were reached on this issue.
In RAN4#101-e, this issue was moved to Rel-15 maintenance agenda, and a Rel-15
CR R4-2118286 reflecting previous agreement was agreed as following:
> _If UE is scheduled for single antenna-port PUSCH transmission by DCI format
> 0_0 or by DCI format 0_1 for single antenna port codebook based
> transmission, the requirements in clause 6.2.1 apply [for the power class as
> indicated by the ue-PowerClass field in capability signalling]{.underline}._
This clarification is identical to Rel-16. This means that the 1-port fall
back of SA UE power class for UL-MIMO is aligned to the power class as
indicated by the ue-PowerClass field in capability signalling.
In RAN4#101-e-bis, during the discussion of the draft TP, it was pointed out
that although some companies\' understanding of the intention is SA UE
declaring PC2 HPUE shall have 26dBm MOP either by full power chain 1Tx or
using TxD, the current requirements for applicability is referenced to clause
6.2.1, which is specific for 1Tx, thus make TxD support difficult. The TP
drafting was delayed for SA part.
In RAN4#102, it is proposed to let the spec stay as it is as this is already a
stable agreement, and no more correction/update seems possible or needed.
### 5.1.2 EN-DC
#### 5.1.2.1 Agreements
Depending on UE architecture, NR part of EN-DC may have different power class
compared to SA NR for the same UE which can support both SA and EN-DC.
For Rel-16, dedicated signalling was introduced for NR part power class in EN-
DC, and the NR in EN-DC was to follow this power class. It was specified in
38.101-3 as following:
> _"If UE indicates IE powerClassNRPart-r16 as defined in TS 38.331 [9] in EN-
> DC, UE shall meet NR requirements according to this power class."_
For Rel-15, no dedicated signalling was introduced for NR part power class in
EN-DC. It was specified in 38.101-3 as following:
> _" [Unless otherwise stated, if UE indicates IE maxNumberSRS-Ports-
> PerResource = n2 in NR standalone operation mode, the said UE shall meet the
> NR requirements for either power class 2 or power class 3 in EN-DC within
> FR1 if UE indicates IE maxNumberSRS-Ports-PerResource = n1 for EN-DC on this
> NR band.]{.underline}_ "
#### 5.1.2.2 Study process
**For Rel-15:**
The power class ambiguity issue was raised since there could be different
understanding in SA and EN-DC case, and some ambiguity was originated from the
transparent nature of TxD. An early summary R4-1913067 was agreed in
RAN4#92bis, in which it was agreed that no new signalling would be introduced
for Rel-15.
In RAN4#93, Rel-15 CR R4-1916137 for clarification of ENDC power class has
been agreed, in which clarification was added for the scenario that UE
supports PC2 SA NR with 2x23 dBm PAs will report PC2 for NR even though it
only support PC3 for NR in EN-DC if UE do not declare support of 2-layer for
EN-DC on this NR band:
_" [Unless otherwise stated, if UE indicates IE maxNumberSRS-Ports-PerResource
= n2 in NR standalone operation mode, the said UE shall meet the NR
requirements for either power class 2 or power class 3 in EN-DC within FR1 if
UE indicates IE maxNumberSRS-Ports-PerResource = n1 for EN-DC on this NR
band.]{.underline}_ "
This has become a "famuous sentence" in RAN4 for a long time, and is kept as
it is. The discussion can be divided into following phases:
Phase 1:
> The "famous sentence", come from the intention that UE do not equip a full-
> power PA may declare PC2 for SA NR by means of TxD. Vendors want to keep the
> possibility of non-full power PA implementation for PC2 in Rel-15 (This
> point itself may also controversial). However, since there is no separate
> capability for NR within ENDC for Rel-15, without further clarification, one
> can only assume same power class between NR SA and NR within EN-DC. Then it
> comes the "famous sentence", to provide UE this flexibility. However, the
> descriptions were very indirect and involves many parameters, since there is
> no sign/capability of architecture.
Phase 2:
> After a while, and the "famous sentence" was stable. Some company raise the
> proposal to revise Pcmax related parameters to achieve more precise PHR
> reporting, to better adapt the general part "famous sentence". Later other
> company has slightly different ones that always assumes a "relaxation" for
> lower power class.
Phase 3:
> In RAN4#99, with newly introduced TxD capability used by Rel-15, there is a
> possible new way to signal architecture by vivo, that is: A UE without TxD
> capability has to have a full power PA for Rel-15. This was also means TxD
> capability UE may not have full-power PA. This is the first time that this
> no-full power PA architecture can be implicitly signaled. To utilize this, a
> draft CR R4-2113013 was endorsed, and the applicability of this "famous
> sentence" can be reduced, while keeping the implementation flexibility.
Phase 4:
> In RAN4#100e, Different CRs were raised to adapt endorsed CR R4-2113013 was
> raised. However, no conclusion can be made, and the original endorsed CR in
> RAN#99e was obsolete since opposed by companies.
>
> In RAN4#101e, this issue was moved to TEI15 agenda, and it was agreed in
> R4-2119835 that everything to be kept as it is and no more revision is
> pursued on this issue in Rel-15.
A more detailed history background can reference to a summary document in
R4-2118285.
**For Rel-16:**
The power class ambiguity issue for Rel-16 was deviated from Rel-15. The
problem for Rel-16 was raised in RAN#88-e in RP-201032. The solution of
introducing specific RAN2 signalling was agreed and an LS RP-201392 was
approved.
The power class for NR band in MR-DC could be different from that indicated in
SA mode. If the power class of NR part is reported for the MR-DC, the UE shall
meet the NR requirements for power class indicated by the newly introduced IE.
The NR power class in Pcmax should then use the one indicated by the new IE
instead.The Rel-16 EN-DC power class ambiguity problem related to TxD was
solved.
For power class related issues, a LS was sent back to GCF in R4-2011903 to
clarify the Rel-16 status for the power class issues, while the Rel-15 remains
to be discussed.
> _""RAN4 thanks GCF CAG for the LS on power class ambiguities in RAN4
> specification and would like to inform GCF CAG about the latest progress._
>
> _1\. It is agreed that new power class capability signalling for NR in EN-DC
> is introduced in Rel-16 to distinguish power class capability of NR in EN-DC
> from power class capability of NR in SA._
>
> _2\. It is agreed that Rel-16 UE shall meet same power class requirements
> between single antenna port mode and UL MIMO in SA._
>
> _3\. It is agreed that transparent Tx diversity (TxD) is enabled at least
> from Rel-16 RAN4 specification._
>
> _RAN4 will inform GCF about the progress of Rel-15 power class
> clarification, once consensus is reached."_
## 5.2 SRS antenna switching
### 5.2.1 Agreements
Draft CR for TxD SRS IL was agreed in draft CR R4-2206518 in RAN4#102e. It was
agreed to use ΔP~PowerClass~ = 3dB to cover the 3dB power loss for the main
atenna caused by TxD capability or PC1.5 (TxD is assumed defaut support for
this kind of UE), and when further indicated with SRS-TxSwitch capability
't1r2' or 't1r4' or 't1r1-t1r2' or 't1r1-t1r2-t1r4'. The PCB intertion loss is
covered by the ∆T~RxSRS~ where 3dB or 4.5dB is reused for bands whose
F~UL_high~ is lower than the F~UL_low~ of n79 or whose F~UL_high~ is higher
than the F~UL_low~ of n79 respectively.
### 5.2.2 Study process
Editor's note: The discussion process has not been completed yet.
In RAN4#addition, the SRS antenna switching was discussed. The email summary
is as in R4-2105440. The following agreements were captured:
> _Other Issues - Relation with SRS antenna switching_
>
> _Proposals_
>
> _Option 1: UE that supports transparent TxD can have antenna switching SRS
> configured in the same band._
>
> _Option 1a. The ∆TRxSRS needs to be increased by 3 dB overall except for the
> PC2 case which accommodates the use of PA with 3 dB lower power for SRS
> antenna switching._
>
> _Option 1b. Other solutions or requirements._
>
> _Option 2: UE that supports transparent TxD can not have antenna switching
> SRS configured in the same band._
>
> _Agreements:_
>
> _Option 1_
>
> _Further confirm SRS_
>
> _Requirements based on transmission from physical antenna connector and not
> by transparent TxD_
>
> _Detailed requirements FFS_
In RAN4#99-e, there is a specific agreed WF for SRS antenna switching
requirements for TxD in R4-2107981, since this is a complicated issue that
needs further discussion. The following agreements were captured:
> _In GTW, the following are agreed_
>
> _SRS antenna switching which was targeted for DL CSI would not use UL
> antenna virtualization, i.e. UL TxD_
>
> _SRS antenna switching functionality cannot be excluded for UE supporting
> TxD._
>
> _And Chair guidance:_
>
> _Leave discussion on concrete value for loss and how to combine Option 1 and
> 2 to further email discussion._
_Agreed WF_
> _Introduce PC1.5 to spec_
>
> _Explicit introduce TxD for SRS antenna switching IL, but how to harmonize
> with the current SRS conditions are FFS, and the exact IL values are FFS_
>
> _At least following PC2 UE architectures with TxD but without antenna
> virtualization for all antenna ports are to be analyzed in #100e_
>
> _23PA+23PA_
>
> _26PA+23PA_
>
> _26PA+26PA_
>
> _At least 1T2R, 1T4R, 2T4R and 1T4R/2T4R srs-TxSwitch are to be analyzed in
> #100e_
>
> _A big CR will be used to capture the agreement in #100e together with other
> TxD issues._
There are also more detailed background and reference paper in the WF.
In RAN4#101-e, WF on SRS antenna switching requirements for TxD and PC1.5 was
agreed in R4-2120065. The following agreements were captured:
**_Sub-Topic 3-1: use of ∆P~PowerClass~ or 3 dB bigger IL_**
_The following way forward is achieved:_
> _For TxD UE, the additional power reduction is introduced:_
>
> _Option 1: ΔP~PowerClass~ = 3 dB for "TxD UE"_
>
> _The detailed condition for "TxD UE" depends on Sub-Topic 3-2._
>
> _Option 2: Additional 3dB reduction is allowed for 1^st^ SRS port for
> ∆T~RxSRS~:_
>
> _FFS the impact on other SRS ports_
**_Sub-topic 3-3: PC1.5 should be handled part of TxD for SRS IL or not._**
_The following agreement is achieved in GTW session (5^th^ Nov, Friday)_
_Agreement: PC1.5 should be allowed extra 3dB only because of power class
declaration_
**_Sub-topic 3-4: Applicable clause for lower power SRS relaxation due to
TxD_**
_The following way forward is achieved:_
> _The applicable clause for lower SRS relaxation due to TxD should be
> implemented in:_
>
> _Option 1: Same as general, 6.2.4 (Ericsson, Oppo, Huawei)_
>
> _Option 2: TxD suffix G (Samsung, ZTE, Qualcomm)_
**_Sub-topic 3-5: SRS virtualization for other usages than antenna
switching_**
_The following way forward is achieved:_
> _FFS whether or not SRS antenna port virtualization by using 2TX antennas
> shall be applied for the following usages configured for SRS resource set
> (other than antennaSwitching):_
>
> _beamManagement_
>
> _codebook_
>
> _nonCodebook_
>
> _FFS the case where SRS resource set is configured with the usage other than
> antennaSwitching, but contains the SRS resource which is shared with another
> SRS resource set configured for antennaSwitching._
There are also more detailed background and reference paper in the WF.
In RAN4#101bis-e, R4-2202350 Draft R17 CR on SRS IL for TxD was discussed but
not agreed but the following agreements were reached:
**_Agreement:_**
> **_During the specification work, RAN4 assumes that only UE supporting
> 23+23dBm for PC2 and 26+26dBm for PC1.5 shall report TxD._**
>
> **_If 6dBm relaxation is allowed for PC2, it can only be allowed for one
> port SRS, i.e., t1xxx_**
>
> **_List all the possible configuration with one port._**
_**Agreement:** add power class 1.5 for Delta_T_RxSRS._
In RAN4#102-e, R4-2206518 Draft CR on SRS IL for NR TxD was agreed. Following
agreements were reached.
_**Agreement:** For Topic #3 and Topic #4, the following principles are
agreed_
> _For UE supporting mode 1 and indicating TxD per band, then 3dB relaxation
> will be applied._
>
> _For UE supporting mode 1 only, then 3dB relaxation won't be applied._
>
> _TxD requirements do not apply to UE supporting mode 0 and mode 2 with full
> power TMPI_
**_Agreement:_**
> _The following changes for R4-2205224 are agreed_
>
> _3dB when PC2 capable UE indicating txDiversity-r16 or PC1.5 [and SRS-
> TxSwitch capability 't1r1-t1r2' or 't1r1-t1r2-t1r4' and] applied during SRS
> transmission occasions with usage in SRS-ResourceSet set as
> 'antennaSwitching' with configured SRS resources in each SRS resource set(s)
> consisting of one SRS port_
>
> _Remove the following sentence from R4-2205224_
>
> _3dB when UE indicating txDiversity-r16 and SRS-TxSwitch capability \'t2r4\'
> and applied during SRS transmission occasions with usage in SRS-ResourceSet
> set as 'antennaSwitching' with configured SRS resources as the second
> resource in each SRS resource set(s) consisting of two SRS ports;_
>
> _In RAN4 spec, capture that PC1.5 implies TxD even if UE does not indicate
> TxD in UE capability._
## 5.3 Uplink Full power transmission (ULFPTx) for UL MIMO
### 5.3.1 Agreements
Editor's note: The final requirements have not been set yet.
#### 5.3.1.1 Single-antenna port fallback
The requirements applicable when a UE is scheduled for single antenna-port
transmission by DCI format 0_0 or by DCI format 0_1 for codebook-based
transmission on a single antenna port.are summarized in Table 5.3.1-1. The
entries 'Single TX' and 'Dual TX' refer to the requirements in clauses 6.2 and
6.2G (and their subclauses) of the Rel-17 version of 38.101-1, respectively.
The typical ULFPTx architectures are described in Section 5.3.3.
Table 5.3.1-1: Single-antenna port applicability with an without TxD
indication
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Single | ul- | ul-Fu | ul-Fu | ul | No | | ante | FullPwrM | llPwrMod | llPwrMod | -FullPwr | ULFPTx | | nna-port | ode1-r16 | e2-SRSCo | e2-TPMIG | Mode-r16 | | | Requ | (Mode-1) | nfig-dif | roup-r16 | (Mode 0) | | | irements | | fNumSRSP | (Mode-2 | | | | appli | | orts-r16 | M | | | | cability | | (Mode-2 | echanism | | | | | | M | 2) | | | | | | echanism | | | | | | | 1) | | | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | txDiver | Dual Tx | Dual Tx | Single | Single | Dual Tx | | sity-r16 | | | Tx | Tx | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | No TxD | Single | Single | Single | Single | Single | | in | Tx | Tx | Tx | Tx | Tx | | dication | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
The requirement that Mode 0 UEs or UEs supporting Mode 2 Mechanism 2 meet the
power class with a single connector (single TX) is driven by the need for
consistent virtualization among DCI 0_0 and 0_1 and among single and two port
SRS transmission.
One potential implementation that could be considered is to virtualize two
antenna port transmission by transmitting one port as the sum of the TX
chains, and the other as the difference of the two chains. Since in this
implementation, the UE virtualizes to form an SRS port, two SRS ports must be
transmitted in the same symbol on a TX chain, which could degrade the PAPR of
SRS transmission. The UE would need to transmit two SRS ports on each PA in a
symbol as described in [2]. Furthermore, the UE must use the same
virtualization for PUSCH. With such a virtualization for PUSCH, each Tx chain
will carry two layers in the case of rank 2 transmission. Therefore, the PAPR
of PUSCH could be degraded, which is contrary to the desire to support UL full
power transmission in the UE.
Another aspect to consider is consistent single port operation in DCI 0_0 and
0_1. If a UE is configured with one port, it must transmit PUSCH in the same
way it transmits SRS. Since DCI 0_0 is single port transmission, then
transmitting with DCI 0_0 and 0_1 should result in the same PUSCH. Therefore,
DCI 0_0 and 0_1 should use the same number of connectors and requirements for
single port transmission.
Hence a UE configured for Mode 2 Mechanism 2 shall the meet the power class
requirement one connector (i.e. without virtualization). A similar argument
holds for Mode 0.
#### 5.3.1.2 SRS antenna switching and ULFPTx
The requirements on the configured maximum output power P~CMAX,f,c~ (sub-
clause 6.2.4 of 38.101-1) during SRS transmission occasions do not depend on
the full-power mode configured but on indication of _txDiversity-r16_ , the
number of SRS ports and the power class supported. Given this, for ULFPTx
modes in Table 5.3.1-1 supported by UE implemenations also indicating
_txDiversity-r16_ using 'dual TX' for achieving full-power, the requirements
prevent antenna virtualization during single-port SRS transmissions for DL CSI
estimation.
### 5.3.2 Study process
Editor's note: The discussion process and analysis have not been completed
yet.
In Rel-16, the feature of Uplink full power transmission (ULFPTx) is
introduced in the RAN1-led work item of "enhancements on MIMO for NR". During
the Rel-16 RAN4 discussion on ULFPTx, there are some agreement achieved
related to transparent TxD.
In RAN4#95-e, there is agreed WF R4-2008462 in which the following agreements
in transparent TxD applicability related to ULFPTx was made:
> **Transparent TxD's applicability for UEs supporting or not supporting
> ULFPTx in Rel-16**
>
> [Reconfirm previous agreement] "The applicability of Transparent TxD is NOT
> related to UE supporting or not supporting Rel-16 ULFPTx"
>
> [Newly added] In Rel-16, RAN4 **ULFPTx** requirement needs to allow UE to
> use transparent TxD to achieve the required transmission power in following
> cases:
>
> Mode-1 UE use transparent TxD for single SRS port (either with DCI_0_0 or
> single SRS port with DCI_0_1)
>
> FFS transparent TxD can be used for UE configured with two SRS ports
In RAN4#100-e, draft CR (R4-2115110), the MOP requirement for fallback DCI in
section 6.2D.1 is restricted to UE not indicating Tx diversity (with or
without ULFPTx configured). For UE indicating Tx diversity (with or without
ULFPTx), the MOP requirement in section 6.2G.1 shall be applied.
In RAN4#101-e, the detailed ULFPTx feature is reviewed, in which different
modes of ULFPTx have been analysed and captured in the clause 5.3.3.
In RAN4#102-e requirements for single-antenna fallback for UEs configured with
ULFPTx were agreed in R4-2206519. A summary of discussions leading up to the
agreement in sub-clause 5.3.1.1 can be found in R4-2205887.
### 5.3.3 RF Architecture Review for UE with Rel-16 ULFPTx Feature
In Rel-16, RAN1 has introduced the feature of UL full power transmission
(ULFPTx) and RAN4 identified the corresponding impacts on RAN4 requirement. It
should be noted the clause 5.3.3 is provided to introduce the ULFPTx feature
which is intended to provide information for the relevant Rel-17 TxD
discussion, and specifically the three ULFPTx modes are presented in the
following sub-clauses.
#### 5.3.3.1 ULFPTx Mode 1 (_ul-FullPowerTransmission-r16 =
'fullpowerMode1'_):
ULFPTx Mode 1 is proposed for the UEs with non-Coherent or partial coherent
UL-MIMO codebook, with codbookSubset = nonCoherent. Particularly, new TPMI
(originally for fullCoherent codebook in Rel-15) is enabled for partial-/non-
coherent codebook as full-power transmission purpose for Rel-16 ULFPTx Mode 1
capable UE, while the same power scaling mechanism as Rel-15 is used. Although
it is not explicitly required, ULPFTx Mode 1 is more reasonable to be applied
for UE with either (1) UEs with no full-rated PAs on any of TX chains, or (2)
UEs with full rated PAs on the subset of TX chains. Because RAN4 discussion is
only restricted to 2TX case, so here below is the case which introduce RAN4
specification impact:
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="1.8833333333333333in"}
Fig. 5.3.3.1-1. Illustration of Rel-16 ULFPTx Mode 1
#### 5.3.3.2 ULFPTx Mode 2 (ul-FullPowerTransmission-r16 = 'fullpowerMode2'):
Compared with Mode-1/0, ULFPTx Mode 2 is more complex, since two mechanisms
are specified, where one of them is configured by gNB. Similar to Mode 1,
although it is not explicitly required, ULPFTx Mode 2 is more reasonable to be
applied for UE with either (1) UEs with no full-rated PAs on any of TX chains,
or (2) UEs with full rated PAs on the subset of TX chains.
> ULFPTx Mode 2 Mechanism-1 (SRS port virtualization):
>
> In this Mechanism-1, UE is configured multiple SRS resources having
> different number of ports, while the full power transmission is achieved if
> SRI is indicated for the SRS with one port. In this mechanism-1, the same
> power scaling as Rel-15 is applied.
>
> {width="5.997025371828522in" height="1.8306452318460193in"}
Fig. 5.3.3.2-1. Illustration of Rel-16 ULFPTx Mode 2 (Mechanism-1, SRS port
virtualization)
> ULFPTx Mode 2 Mechanism-2 (TPMI indication):
>
> In this Mechanism-2, UE reports existing TPMI(s) available for full power
> transmission, and the only difference comes from the different behaviour of
> power scaling:
>
> For full power TPMI, Rel-16 power scaling factor s = 1 is applied;
>
> For non-full-power TPMI, Rel-15 power scaling factor is applied, as
> illustrated below.
{width="3.331200787401575in" height="1.9905664916885388in"}
Fig. 5.3.3.2-2. Illustration of Rel-16 ULFPTx Mode 2 (Mechanism-2, TPMI
indication)
#### 5.3.3.3 ULFPTx Mode 0 (ul-FullPowerTransmission-r16 = 'fullpower'):
ULFPTx Mode 0 is proposed for the UEs with full-rated PAs on each TX chain.
For UE supporting ULFPTx Mode 0, Rel-16 power scaling factor s = 1, which is
compared with Rel-15 power scaling factor (i.e., s = ratio of # non-zero PUSCH
transmission power to # of SRS ports). For the below case, Rel-16 ULFPTx
Mode-0 can enable the full power transmission while Rel-15 mechanism can only
achieve half of power, i.e., s = ½ for TPMI = {1 0}.
{width="3.386058617672791in" height="2.1037740594925634in"}
Fig. 5.3.3.3-1. Illustration of Rel-16 ULFPTx Mode 0
# 6 Applicability and verification
Editor's note: This clause intends to summarize the key part of technical
agreements and related background of applicability and verification. For test
related issues, the discussion process and the key options were also prepared
to be documented for future reference.
## 6.1 Capability signalling
### 6.1.1 Agreements
Editor's note: The final requirements have not been completed yet.
For the signalling options for transparent TxD, as in the WF R4-2103390 and
outgoing LS R4-2103360, RAN4 has agreed to introduce a new per-band capability
signaling in Rel-16 for FR1 UEs supporting transparent TxD. RAN4 would also
like to ask RAN2 to enable release-independent support of this new capability
from Rel-15 for PC2, if possible.
There is following reply from RAN2.
> **_RAN2 has discussed whether to enable release-independent support of this
> new capability from Rel-15, and the following agreements have been
> achieved:_**
>
> **_RAN2 can support release independent capability of transparent TxD for
> Rel-15, by allowing early implementation of the Rel-16 CRs._**
>
> **_It is possible to only apply the change for this new capability for PC2
> UEs for Rel-15, but RAN2 would like to understand whether the Rel-16
> capability signalling applies for all PCs, while Rel-15 capability
> signalling applies for just PC2 (as this difference in Rel-15 and Rel-16
> capability might impact the signalling design)?_**
>
> **_RAN2 would also like to confirm whether this new capability has any
> dependencies with other capabilities that should be captured by RAN2 (since
> the capability is intended as release independent, RAN2 may need to capture
> such pre-requisites explicitly)."_**
After receiving the LS, it is agreed that capability singling for TxD applies
for all power classes for both Rel-15 and Rel-16 in the WF R4-2107740.
The dependencies with other capabilities were still under discussion.
In RAN4#100-e, it was formally approved by RAN4 in the LS out to RAN2 in
R4-2115111 that:
> _RAN4 would like to confirm the capability of transparent TxD applies to all
> power classes equally in all the applicable releases via a release
> independent manner._
This has clarified that the power classes would not be differentiated for
release independency.
### 6.1.2 Study process
Editor's note: The discussion process has not been completed yet.
In RAN4#96-e, the signaling for Transparent TxD was started to be discussed,
and continued for several meetings without progress.
in RAN4#98-e, there is major break through in this topic with the TxD
capability signlaing and release independency. In the agreed WF R4-2103390,
the following agreements were made:
> _Signaling for Transparent TxD_
>
> _Whether and how RAN4 introduce signalling for transparent TxD:_
>
> _Option 1: Introduce some sort of signaling by UE_
>
> _Option 1a. Use ModifiedMPRbehavior bits to signal additional relaxations;_
>
> _Option 1b: Introducing a new ( per band capability) signalling for TxD
> together with existing power classes_
>
> _Capability reporting for supporting TxD_
>
> _Option 1c: Introducing a new power class (e.g. PC2.5) for TxD_
>
> _Option 2: Based on UE vendor declaration._
>
> _Option 3: Using existing signalling to indicate the 2Tx implementation
> capability._
>
> _Recommended WF_
>
> _For R15 UEs, UE vendor declaration can be used in testing_
>
> _For R16 UEs, new signaling, i.e. 1b, is needed to inform the network of the
> support of TxD. If the signaling can be made to enable release-independent
> support of TxD from R15 can be consulted with RAN2_
It means that transparent TxD can be at least using UE vendor declaration and
used in testing for Rel-15.
For the signalling, an LS out R4-2103360 was agreed and sent to RAN2 with the
following description and action:
> **_"1. Overall Description:_**
RAN4 has agreed to introduce a new per-band capability signaling in Rel-16 for
FR1 UEs supporting transparent TxD.
RAN4 would also like to ask RAN2 to enable release-independent support of this
new capability from Rel-15 for PC2, if possible.
> **_2\. Actions:_**
>
> **_To RAN2:_**
**ACTION:** RAN4 respectfully asks RAN2 to define respective signalling in
Rel-16 and discuss release independence to Rel-15."
In RAN4#99-e, RAN2 Reply LS was received in R4-2107616, in which the
feasibility of release independency to Rel-15 by allowing early implementation
was confirmed. Further questions were also raised to about applicable power
classes and if there are dependencies with other capabilities;
"RAN2 thanks RAN4 for the LS on signalling scheme of transparent TxD.
Regarding the new per-band capability signaling in Rel-16 for FR1 UEs
supporting transparent TxD, RAN2 can add the corresponding capability in
corresponding specification (TS 38.331 and TS 38.306).
RAN2 has discussed whether to enable release-independent support of this new
capability from Rel-15, and the following agreements have been achieved:
RAN2 can support release independent capability of transparent TxD for Rel-15,
by allowing early implementation of the Rel-16 CRs.
It is possible to only apply the change for this new capability for PC2 UEs
for Rel-15, but RAN2 would like to understand whether the Rel-16 capability
signalling applies for all PCs, while Rel-15 capability signalling applies for
just PC2 (as this difference in Rel-15 and Rel-16 capability might impact the
signalling design)?
RAN2 would also like to confirm whether this new capability has any
dependencies with other capabilities that should be captured by RAN2 (since
the capability is intended as release independent, RAN2 may need to capture
such pre-requisites explicitly)."
The key agreements for TxD and power class related issues were documented in
the agreed WF R4-2107740. The TxD related part is as following:
In the WF, the applicable power class for capability signaling was confirmed.
However, the dependencies with other capabilities were still under discussion.
_LS related - Applicable power class for capability signaling in different
releases_
> _Proposals:_
>
> _Option 1: Applies for all Power Classes for both Rel-15 and Rel-16_
>
> _Option 2: Applies for only PC2 for Rel-15, and for all power classes in
> Rel-16;_
>
> _Option 3: Others_
>
> _Agreement (GTW): Option 1_
It means that RAN4 confirm that the capability singling applies for all power
classes for both Rel-15 and Rel-16.
In RAN4#100-e, the following contents were agreed in the LS out to RAN2 in
R4-2115111 to reflect the previous agreement:
RAN4 would like to confirm the capability of transparent TxD applies to all
power classes equally in all the applicable releases via a release independent
manner.
This has clarified that the power classes would not be differentiated for
release independency.
In addition, during the discussion, RAN2 has made agreements that Rel-16 CRs
would be approved for this TxD capability signalling, thus conclude the
discussion for the release.
## 6.2 Applicable release
### 6.2.1 Agreements
Editor's note: The final requirements have not been completed yet.
TxD requirements would still in Rel-17 RAN4 specs since it is a Rel-17 WI, and
RAN4 would allow release independency from Rel-15 by early implementation of
the requirements in Rel-17.
RAN2 would introduce the capability signalling in Rel-16 RAN2 spec, and allow
release independency from Rel-15 by early implementation of Rel-16 CRs.
### 6.2.2 Study process
Editor's note: The discussion process has not been completed yet.
In RAN4#92bis, a WF R4-1913067 was agreed. Though this WF was mainly for power
class issue, there is following contents closely related to TxD:
> _Transparent TxD UE behaivor is not specified in Rel-15 RAN4 core
> requirements_
For the explanation of Rel-15 , the Chair's explanation is this a "fact" which
reflect the situation of that point. From this point, the need for specific
requirements for TxD has been officially confirmed by RAN4.
In RAN4#93, a reply LS R4-1916132 from RAN5 was received by RAN4. In the LS,
RAN5 reply that it cannot fully evaluate the impact TxD testing since it's
unclear from RAN4 specification, in this LS RAN5 also this question:
> _Clarify whether the FR1 Tx diversity applies from Rel.-15 or Rel.-16._
By the time of RAN4#99, this question and LS was not replied and this the main
impendence of agreements.
In RAN4#94-e-bis, in the agreed WF R4-2005652 for eMIMO, there are some
agreements to confirm TxD should be supported at least from Rel-16:
> **_Transparent Tx Diversity (TxD) in Rel-16 (TBD its applicability for UEs
> supporting or not supporting full power transmission)_**
>
> _Transparent TxD shall be allowed for FR1 in Rel-16:_
>
> _Necessary changes to Rel-16 RAN4 specification is needed to allow the UE
> behavior of transparent TxD in FR1;_
>
> _TBD (Accordingly RAN5 will change test cases to allow transparent TxD)_
There is a long debate that whether TxD can be supported from Rel-15, and in
RAN4#98-e, there is major break through in this topic with the TxD capability
signlaing and release independency. In the agreed WF R4-2103390, the following
agreements were made:
> _Signaling for Transparent TxD_
>
> _Whether and how RAN4 introduce signalling for transparent TxD:_
>
> _Option 1: Introduce some sort of signaling by UE_
>
> _Option 1a. Use ModifiedMPRbehavior bits to signal additional relaxations;_
>
> _Option 1b: Introducing a new ( per band capability) signalling for TxD
> together with existing power classes_
>
> _Capability reporting for supporting TxD_
>
> _Option 1c: Introducing a new power class (e.g. PC2.5) for TxD_
>
> _Option 2: Based on UE vendor declaration._
>
> _Option 3: Using existing signalling to indicate the 2Tx implementation
> capability._
>
> _Recommended WF_
>
> _For R15 UEs, UE vendor declaration can be used in testing_
>
> _For R16 UEs, new signaling, i.e. 1b, is needed to inform the network of the
> support of TxD. If the signaling can be made to enable release-independent
> support of TxD from R15 can be consulted with RAN2_
After that the applicable release depend on the release dependency which was
discussed in the capability signaling part.
The remaining study process for capability signalling can be referenced from
clause 6.1.2. RAN2 final agreements are those signalling would be introduced
in Rel-16 RAN2 spec, while allow release independency from Rel-15 by early
implementation of Rel-16 CRs.
It should be noted that the TxD requirements would still in Rel-17 RAN4 specs
since it is a Rel-17 WI, and RAN4 would allow release independency from Rel-15
by early implementation of the requirements in Rel-17.
## 6.3 Testing related
### 6.3.1 UE Behaviour under Conformance Testing
#### 6.3.1.1 Agreements
This issue is agreed to Leave these discussions to RAN5 and not pursue them
before agreement of RAN4 CR in RAN4#99, since no agreements could be reached.
The following options were listed for reference:
Background: Motivation is to guide how to test requirements that require power
changes such as relative power control.
Proposals:
> Option 1a: UE will keep the tx diversity status unchanged in conformance
> testing.
>
> Option 1b: Test mode signalling is implemented to instruct UE to keep TX div
> status unchanged
>
> Option 2a: TE will detect and sum for every power step and change in
> condition from **declared** connector, with no precondition
>
> Option 2b: TE will detect and sum for every power step and change in
> condition from **declared** connector, based on pre-condition that a
> repeatability of TxD activation/deactivation timing in a UE is maintained
> can be fulfilled.
#### 6.3.1.2 Study process
In RAN4#95-e, there is agreed WF R4-2008465 in RAN4#95e, first introduce this
issue.
> _Issue 3-3-6: UE behavior under conformance testing_
>
> _Motivation is to guide how to test requirements that require power changes
> such as relative power control_
>
> _Option 1a: UE will keep the tx diversity status unchanged in conformance
> testing._
>
> _Option 1b: Test mode signalling is implemented to instruct UE to keep TX
> div status unchanged_
>
> _Option 2: TE will detect and sum for every power step and change in
> condition from all connector (according to the issue 3-3-5 outcome)_
Unfortunately, basically there is no progress. In RAN4#98e, in the agreed WF
R4-2103390, this meeting is the last meeting to list the detailed options in
the WF. Though NO AGREEMENTS for any solution could be reached, they could
still be considered as future discussion basis which is as following:
> UE Behavior under Conformance Testing
Background: Motivation is to guide how to test requirements that require power
changes such as relative power control.
Proposals:
> Option 1a: UE will keep the tx diversity status unchanged in conformance
> testing.
>
> Option 1b: Test mode signalling is implemented to instruct UE to keep TX div
> status unchanged
>
> Option 2a: TE will detect and sum for every power step and change in
> condition from **declared** connector, with no precondition
>
> Option 2b: TE will detect and sum for every power step and change in
> condition from **declared** connector, based on pre-condition that a
> repeatability of TxD activation/deactivation timing in a UE is maintained
> can be fulfilled.
In RAN4#99-e, it was agreed in WF R4-2107740 that the two controversial
testing related issues were moved to RAN5.
**_Remaining Issues - Testing related issues_**
> _Proposals_
>
> _Option 1: Leave these discussions to RAN5 and not pursue them before
> agreement of RAN4 CR._
>
> _Option 2: Continue discussion in RAN4._
_Agreement:_
> _Option 1_
### 6.3.2 Power Splitting Behaviour
#### 6.3.2.1 Agreements
This issue is agreed to Leave these discussions to RAN5 and not pursue them
before agreement of RAN4 CR in RAN4#99, since no agreements could be reached.
The following options were listed for reference:
> Option 1: Only allow equal power split between connectors
>
> Excludes 17+17+20 dBm implementations
>
> Excludes power control optimizations
>
> Option 1a: Per instructed as test mode, UE should keep equal power split
> between connectors in all cases.
>
> Option 2: Allow any power split between connectors
#### 6.3.2.2 Study process
In RAN4#95-e, there is agreed WF R4-2008465 in RAN4#95e, first introduce this
issue.
> _Issue 3-3-7: Power splitting behaviour_
>
> _Motivation is to discuss and agree what implementations are excuded_
>
> _Option 1: Only allow equal power split between connectors_
>
> _Excludes 17+17+20 dBm implementations_
>
> _Excludes power control optimizations_
>
> _Option 2: Allow any power split between connectors_
>
> _Note for discussion_
>
> _RAN1 language mandates UE to split power equally between logical antenna
> ports. This allows 17+17 dBm = port 1 and 20 dBm = port 2 case_
>
> _What is the motivation for RAN4 to disallow this? Or power optimization for
> example for 24 dBm output power realization 23 + 17 dBm for maximized
> efficiency?_
Unfortunately, basically there is no progress at all, apart from introduce a
new option with test mode. In RAN4#98e, in the agreed WF R4-2103390, this
meeting is the last meeting to list the detailed options in the WF. Though NO
AGREEMENTS for any solution could be reached, they could still be considered
as future discussion basis which is as following:
Background: Motivation is to guide how to test requirements that require power
changes such as relative power control
**Question 1:** What would be the impact for the requirements and testability
with tentative equal power split restriction?
Proposals:
> Option 1: Only allow equal power split between connectors
>
> Excludes 17+17+20 dBm implementations
>
> Excludes power control optimizations
>
> Option 1a: Per instructed as test mode, UE should keep equal power split
> between connectors in all cases.
>
> Option 2: Allow any power split between connectors
In RAN4#99-e, it was agreed in WF R4-2107740 that the two controversial
testing related issues were moved to RAN5.
**_Remaining Issues - Testing related issues_**
> _Proposals_
>
> _Option 1: Leave these discussions to RAN5 and not pursue them before
> agreement of RAN4 CR._
>
> _Option 2: Continue discussion in RAN4._
_Agreement:_
> _Option 1_
###### ### Annex A: Agreements and Contributions Before RAN#92
Editor's note: This clause intends to summarize and list the agreements and
contributions before RAN#92 during which a WI was approved and no SR is
available yet and serve as an index for the research history. It is noted that
there are cases that certain agreement in certain meeting was repeated,
disregarded or even reversed in later stage, and effective one would also be
captured in previous clauses.
# A.1 Agreements
Editor's note: This clause intends to summarize the agreements and basic
background for every meeting.
## A.1.1 Before RAN4#94-e-bis
**General**
Before RAN4#94-e-Bis can be regarded as early stages for the study of TxD,
there is no dedicated agenda for this topic and the papers were spread across
different topics such as maintenance, power class issue and the eMIMO.
**Starting point**
The following LS can be regarded as the starting point of introduction of UL
transmission diversity concept for RAN4: In RAN4#84-Bis Dubrovnik with LS
R4-1710109 from RAN1 saying:
"_For CP-OFDM waveform based PUSCH, operation with UL transmission diversity
is transparent to specification_ ".
Later RAN1 also made similar agreements for DFT-s-OFDM. This means UE is
allowed to implement diversity schemes and specifications should not limit the
implementations.
**Early stage discussion and agreements:**
There were early discussion and agreements of PA architecture for PC2 UE as in
R4-1902497 in RAN4#90 documented.:
> In Rel-15, for power class 2 UE PA configurations for UL-MIMO, RAN4 had the
> following two approved WFs [R4-1803259] and [R4-1816615], and the key
> relating parts are listed below respectively:
>
> _"Only PA configurations of 23+23dBm for UL MIMO and 26dBm for 1Tx are
> supported by specification for NR TDD bands for PC2 UE in Rel-15"_
>
> _"Clarify in the Rel-15 specification on ambiguous requirements for UE
> supporting UL MIMO_
>
> _Maximum output power_
>
> _Clarity in the spec that if PC2 UE is configured for transmission on
> single-antenna port, the requirements of the same power class in subclause
> 6.2.1 apply for the UE._
>
> _How to configure for transmission on single-antenna port is up to UE
> implementation"_
In RAN4#92, a WF R4-1910343 was agreed in which following agreements was made:
> _No specific requirements for TX diversity is written in RAN4
> specification._
>
> _RAN4 will follow RAN1 agreements and is discussing possibility for RAN4
> requirements to accommodate TX diversity_
>
> _LS to RAN5 will be sent to ask them to confirm feasibility of TX diversity
> testing_
The mentioned LS to RAN5 R4-1910344 has been agreed to inform RAN5 about the
discussion on introducing Tx diversity requirements in FR1 (see R4-1908472 and
R4-1909922) and ask RAN5 about the potential testability issues with Tx
diversity. In the LS it was stated that:
"_During the discussion, concerns have been raised about the testability of
this feature, since UEs may utilize multiple antennas during its uplink
transmission. Considering the usage of the Tx diversity scheme is up to the UE
implementation, it may also be unknown which uplink transmit antennas a UE
uses at a certain point in time._
_RAN4 respectfully asks RAN5 to identify potential issues with the testability
of this feature, taking into account uplink transmission from multiple
potentially unknown UE antenna connectors."_.
In RAN4#92bis, a WF R4-1913067 was agreed. Though this WF was mainly for power
class issue, there is following contents closely related to TxD:
> _Transparent TxD UE behaivor is not specified in Rel-15 RAN4 core
> requirements_
>
> _Further work needed in Rel-16 and impact on RAN5 conformance testing
> investigateg, e.g, replacement of "antenna connector" with "antenna port"_
For the explanation of Rel-15 , the Chair's explanation is this a "fact" which
reflect the situation of that point. From this point, the need for specific
requirements for TxD has been officially confirmed by RAN4.
In RAN4#93, a reply LS R4-1916132 from RAN5 was received by RAN4. In the LS,
RAN5 reply that it cannot fully evaluate the impact TxD testing since it's
unclear from RAN4 specification:
_"RAN5 has discussed the issues presented in the LS and has come to the
conclusion that it currently cannot fully evaluate the impact of Tx diversity
on UE testing, since in RAN5 understanding Tx diversity requirements are
unclear from RAN4 specification. To fully judge the impact of Tx diversity on
testing and test system design, RAN5 requires defined requirements which need
to be tested and/or an understanding of the expected UE behaviour to be
tested, since the Tx diversity behaviour of the UE may impact also TC other
than Tx, e.g. RRM, Demod, CSI as outlined in [1]."_
RAN5 also asked some specific questions to RAN4:
> _Define requirements for FR1 Tx diversity and clarify whether the
> requirements apply at a UE or at the antenna connector level._
>
> _Confirm that the RAN5 assumption of a maximum of 2 UL antenna connectors
> for Tx diversity is correct._
>
> _Clarify whether the FR1 Tx diversity applies from Rel.-15 or Rel.-16._
In the same meeting RAN4#93, a Rel-15 CR R4-1916137 for clarification of ENDC
power class in R15 has been agreed in which clarification was added for the
scenario that UE supports PC2 SA NR with 2x23 dBm PAs will report PC2 for NR
even though it only support PC3 for NR in EN-DC if UE do not declare support
of 2-layer for EN-DC on this NR band:
_" [Unless otherwise stated, if UE indicates IE maxNumberSRS-Ports-PerResource
= n2 in NR standalone operation mode, the said UE shall meet the NR
requirements for either power class 2 or power class 3 in EN-DC within FR1 if
UE indicates IE maxNumberSRS-Ports-PerResource = n1 for EN-DC on this NR
band.]{.underline}_ "
This has become a "famuous sentence" in RAN4 for a long time since it creats a
lot of controversies in upcoming meetings.
In RAN4#94, no agreements were made.
## A.1.2 RAN4#94-e-bis
In this meeting, the TxD discussion were in two Email threads, UL-MIMO related
power class and eMIMO.
In the agreed WF R4-2005652 for eMIMO, there are some agreements regarding the
TxD applicability and relationship with eMIMO features:
> **_Transparent Tx Diversity (TxD) in Rel-16 (TBD its applicability for UEs
> supporting or not supporting full power transmission)_**
>
> _Transparent TxD shall be allowed for FR1 in Rel-16:_
>
> _Necessary changes to Rel-16 RAN4 specification is needed to allow the UE
> behavior of transparent TxD in FR1;_
>
> _TBD (Accordingly RAN5 will change test cases to allow transparent TxD)_
>
> _From Rel-16 and beyond, SA UE declaring PC2 HPUE shall have 26dBm MOP for
> both 1TX port transmission and 2TX UL-MIMO (if supported)_
>
> _For UE with 23dBm+23dBm PA architecture, transparent TxD shall be used to
> have 26dBm MOP for 1TX port transmission._
>
> _TBD how the requirements will be specified_
>
> _Conclusion of Rel-16 discussion will have no impact on Rel-15_
>
> _TBD how to capture the requirements for different UEs_
>
> **_Clarification on Transparent TxD (1/3)_**
>
> _Scenario-1:_
>
> _NW use DCI format 0_0 to schedule PUSCH for 1layer 1Tx antenna port
> transmission, or_
_NW configured 1 SRS port in one SRS resource and use DCI format 0_1 to
schedule codebook-based PUSCH transmission PUSCH with precoder [1] for 1layer
1Tx antenna port transmission._
> _Transparent TxD shall be allowed in Scenario-1;_
>
> _If transparent TxD is used in Scenario-1:_
>
> _Transmission come out from two antenna connectors;_
>
> _FFS measurement configuration for transparent TxD transmission, e.g.,_
>
> _the way to adjustment of relative phase coherence between TX branches;_
>
> _the way to derive verdicts under the condition in which the active antennas
> are unknown;_
>
> _the way to derive EVM measurement results after measuring per antenna
> connector;_
>
> _etc._
>
> **_Clarification on Transparent TxD (2/3)_**
>
> _Scenario-2:_
>
> _UE supports 2 SRS ports;_
>
> _NW configured 2 SRS ports in one SRS resource;_
>
> _NW use DCI format 0_1 to schedule codebook-based PUSCH transmission with
> precoder [1 0] or [0 1] in 1layer 2Tx precoder codebook, which corresponding
> to 2 SRS ports in the SRS resource_
>
> _The scheduled precoder [1 0] or [0 1] in Scenario-2 is not regarded as
> "transparent TxD" for two antenna connector implementation._
>
> _In Scenario-2, can "transparent TxD" be applied to non-zero power 1 TX in
> precoder [1 0] or [0 1]?_
>
> _Option-1 (Samsung, Intel): No._
>
> _Option-2: Yes_
>
> **_Clarification on Transparent TxD (3/3)_**
>
> _Scenario-3:_
>
> _UE supports 2 SRS ports;_
>
> _NW configured 2 SRS ports in one SRS resource;_
>
> _NW use DCI format 0_1 to schedule codebook-based PUSCH transmission with
> precoder [1 1] in 1layer 2Tx precoder codebook, which corresponding to 2 SRS
> ports in the SRS resource._
>
> _The scheduled precoder [1 1] in Scenario-3 is not regarded as "transparent
> TxD". (Qualcomm, Intel, Samsung)_
In addition, there is the following agreement documented in the Chairman's
notes under this WF:
"The applicability of Transparent TxD is NOT related to UE supporting or not
supporting Rel-16 ULFPTx."
The detailed discussion can be referenced to the Email discussion summary
R4-2005695.
In the power class related discussion, a WF R4-2005216 was agreed and the
contents is as following:
> **Requirements for SA UL MIMO PC2 UE are incomplete/ambiguous in current R15
> RAN4 specs** _._
>
> _Option1: Continue discussion to complete in R15._
>
> _Option2: Live with what we have now in r15, continue discussion in R16_
>
> **Discussion on technical issues needed for transparent Tx diversity**
>
> _This discussion does not differentiate between Rel-15 or Rel-16_
>
> _Main initial analysis reference papers_
>
> _R4-2003330(Anritsu), R4-2004211(Keysight), R4-2003028(Qualcomm),
> R4-2004960(CMCC)..._
>
> **R15 UL MIMO emission requirements shall apply to UE level.**
>
> **Relating MPRs are need to be re-visited.**
>
> **Corresponding work plan & assumptions to be discussed in RAN4#95-e**
>
> **Further discuss whether it is necessary to evaluate CDD based TxDiv
> against 1 Tx antenna scheme.**
>
> **R4-2003217 can be used as a reference.**
Basically there is no concrete agreements related to either TxD or power class
issue. It should be noted that in R4-2003028, there is more background for
power class issue, and could be used as further reference for earlier power
class related background.
The Email summary can be reference to R4-2005687.
## A.1.3 RAN4#95-e
The main agreements in this meeting was made under the eMIMO WI, and the
discussion of R15 power class didn't have an WF in this meeting. There is an
incoming LS R4-2006116 from GCF was received for clarfication of several power
class inalignment issues from the views of GCF.
In agreed WF R4-2008462, there is the following agreements in transparent TxD
applicability related to ULFPTx
> **_Transparent TxD's applicability for UEs supporting or not supporting
> ULFPTx in Rel-16_**
>
> _[Reconfirm previous agreement] "The applicability of Transparent TxD is NOT
> related to UE supporting or not supporting Rel-16 ULFPTx"_
>
> _[Newly added] In Rel-16, RAN4_ _ULFPTx_ _requirement needs to allow UE to
> use transparent TxD to achieve the required transmission power in following
> cases:_
>
> _Mode-1 UE use transparent TxD for single SRS port (either with DCI_0_0 or
> single SRS port with DCI_0_1)_
>
> _FFS transparent TxD can be used for UE configured with two SRS ports_
An LS R4-2009171 was agreed and sent to RAN1, in order to make progress of
certain discussion of transparent TxD related issues, to get some
clarification from RAN1. The contents are as following:
> _In RAN4 study of ULFPTx under eMIMO WI, enabling transparent Tx diversity
> (TxD) was agreed at least from Rel-16, and the applicability of transparent
> TxD is NOT related to UE supporting or not supporting Rel-16 ULFPTx. Two
> possible cases were identified in RAN4 to use transparent TxD to achieve the
> required transmission power, i.e. for a FR1 UE having two TX
> branches/antennae,_
>
> _First case: Transparent TxD for UE configured with single SRS port (either
> with DCI_0_0 or single SRS port with DCI_0_1);_
>
> _Second case: Transparent TxD for UE configured with 2 SRS ports (FFS
> whether TxD is feasible in this case)._
>
> _For the second case, two possible methods to transmit a multi-port SRS
> resource (i.e. 2Tx ports) with two PAs (PA1 and PA2) were considered, i.e._
>
> _Method-1: SRS port-1 maps to PA1, SRS port-2 maps to PA2_
>
> _Method-2: SRS port-1 maps to PA1+PA2, SRS port-2 maps to PA1+PA2_
>
> _In order to make progress of corresponding discussion of transparent TxD
> related issues, RAN4 would like to get some clarification from RAN1 for the
> feasibility of the second case._
>
> _**Question 1** : Whether the two mentioned methods are both feasible to
> transmit the full output power?_
>
> _**Question 2** : If answer is yes, which ULFPTx modes can be supported for
> these two methods?_
In agreed WF R4-2008465, though not much agreements, many TxD specific issues
were raised and options provided. From this point, the discussion for TxD
become more speed up and more systematic.
> _Issue 3-3-1: Summing the power and emissions_
>
> _Motivation is to define requirements so that power is measured correctly
> for all implementations_
>
> _Option 1: Use "requirements apply to a sum of both connectors"._
>
> _Option 2: Use "measured as sum of each antenna connector"._
>
> _Issue 3-3-2: Unwanted emissions for Transparent TxD: MPR study_
>
> _Possible WF:_
>
> _Simulation/measurement assumptions for MPR study for 2Tx UE's_
>
> _Follow 29 dBm WI assumptions in R4-2005190_
>
> _Two 20dBm Tx chains are not precluded_
>
> _Two 23dBm Tx chains are not precluded_
>
> _Two 26dBm Tx chains are precluded_
>
> _MPRs are defined for each power class separately_
>
> _PC3 = 2x20dBm_
>
> _PC2 = 2x23dBm_
>
> _Issue 3-3-2: Unwanted emissions for Transparent TxD: how to write emission
> requirements_
>
> _Motivation is to ensure correct requirement setting for unwanted emissions_
>
> _Option 1: Define "requirements apply to a sum of both connectors". Issue
> 3-3-1 option 1_
>
> _Option 2: Define "measured as the sum of the emissions from all antenna
> connectors". Same as issue 3-3-1 Option 2_
>
> _Option 3: Measured per antenna connector against a 3 dB tighter emissions
> requirement per connector (for two antenna connectors)._
>
> _Issue 3-3-3: ACLR for Transparent TxD_
>
> _ACLR is defined as follows_
>
> _ACLR~UE~ = (P~ADJ,\ TX1~ + P~ADJ,\ TX2~) / (P~OWN,\ TX1~ + P~OWN,\ TX2~)_
>
> _Where_
>
> _P~ADJ,\ TX1~ = power of the adjacent channel on TX port 1_
>
> _P~OWN,\ TX1~ = power of own channel on TX port 1_
>
> _And TX2 similarly._
>
> _Issue 3-3-4: EVM for Transparent TxD_
>
> _Agree EVM defined as_
$$EVM = \sqrt{(P_{1}_\text{EVM}_{1}^{2} + \ P_{2}_\text{EVM}_{2}^{2})/(P1\ + \
P2)}$$
> _Needed changes into the TS are TBD_
>
> _Annex F_
>
> _6.4D_
>
> _Issue 3-3-5: Declaration for default TX connector_
>
> _Motivation is to clarify what is UE behavior and TE assumptions in RX and
> BB tests_
>
> _Narrow down to one of the following in next meeting_
>
> _Option 1a: TE needs to detect all antenna connectors for ACK and NACK and
> any other expected response from UE_
>
> _Option 1b: TE needs to detect all declared TX antenna connectors for ACK
> and NACK and any other expected response from UE_
>
> _Option 2: UE declares which connector is primary TX connector from which
> ACK and NACK and any other expected response from UE is transmitted in all
> cases_
>
> _And send LS to RAN5 about RAN4 conclusion_
>
> _Issue 3-3-6: UE behavior under conformance testing_
>
> _Motivation is to guide how to test requirements that require power changes
> such as relative power control_
>
> _Option 1a: UE will keep the tx diversity status unchanged in conformance
> testing._
>
> _Option 1b: Test mode signalling is implemented to instruct UE to keep TX
> div status unchanged_
>
> _Option 2: TE will detect and sum for every power step and change in
> condition from all connector (according to the issue 3-3-5 outcome)_
>
> _Issue 3-3-7: Power splitting behaviour_
>
> _Motivation is to discuss and agree what implementations are excuded_
>
> _Option 1: Only allow equal power split between connectors_
>
> _Excludes 17+17+20 dBm implementations_
>
> _Excludes power control optimizations_
>
> _Option 2: Allow any power split between connectors_
>
> _Note for discussion_
>
> _RAN1 language mandates UE to split power equally between logical antenna
> ports. This allows 17+17 dBm = port 1 and 20 dBm = port 2 case_
>
> _What is the motivation for RAN4 to disallow this? Or power optimization for
> example for 24 dBm output power realization 23 + 17 dBm for maximized
> efficiency?_
Among them actually only _Issue 3-3-3 and Issue 3-3-4_ are agreements without
different options, and issue 3-3-4 was gradually reversed in later stage.
The Email summary for eMIMO and R15 power class can be found in R4-2008946 and
R4-2008935.
## A.1.4 RAN#88-e
The power class ambiguity issue for Rel-16 was raised in RAN#88-e in
RP-201032. The solution of introducing specific RAN2 signalling was agreed and
an LS RP-201392 was approved.
The power class for NR band in MR-DC could be different from that indicated in
SA mode. If the power class of NR part is reported for the MR-DC, the UE shall
meet the NR requirements for power class indicated by the newly introduced IE.
The NR power class in Pcmax should then use the one indicated by the new IE
instead.The Rel-16 EN-DC power class ambiguity problem related to TxD was
solved.
## A.1.5 RAN4#96-e
In this meeting, TxD related requirements were mainly discussed with power
class related issue in one thread.
There is one agreed WF R4-2011768 in which the following agreements were made:
> _Summing the Powers and Emissions_
>
> _RAN4 agree to define requirements for MOP and emission so that power is
> measured correctly for all implementations, including UE with transparent
> TxD:_
>
> _Use "requirements are defined as the sum of powers from both connectors"._
>
> _This shall be interpreted as: Measure the power and emissions per connector
> and then sum them up afterwards._
>
> _RAN4 will clean-up all requirements related to summing the powers and
> emissions, including UL MIMO, UL full power transmission requirement._
>
> _MPR Requirement for Transparent TxD_
>
> _RAN4 agree MPR defined for TxD is applied to the total output power rather
> than at each antenna connector_
For EVM, in response to newly raised proposals, the WF has the following
update:
> _EVM Requirement for Transparent TxD_
>
> _Background:_
>
> _In RAN4#95e, RAN4 agree to define EVM for transparent TxD as:_
$$EVM = \sqrt{(P_{1}_\text{EVM}_{1}^{2} + \ P_{2}_\text{EVM}_{2}^{2})/(P1\ + \
P2)}$$
> _RAN4 further study new test method and EVM definition proposed in
> R4-2011519:_
>
> _FFS whether or not to use new EVM definition to replace above definition._
>
> _RAN4 agree the location in Specification to capture EVM definition for
> transparent TxD, as_
>
> _Annex F_
For other issues, different options were raised and basically no agreements
and progress were made, the titles were included below while the details were
omitted.
> _Declaration for Default TX Connector_
>
> _UE Behavior under Conformance Testing_
>
> _Power Splitting Behavior_
>
> _Signaling for Transparent TxD_
>
> _Applicability of Transparent TxD Requirement_
>
> _CDD-related Requirement_
For power class related issues, a LS was sent back to GCF in R4-2011903 to
clarify the Rel-16 status for the power class issues, while the Rel-15 remains
to be discussed.
> _""RAN4 thanks GCF CAG for the LS on power class ambiguities in RAN4
> specification and would like to inform GCF CAG about the latest progress._
>
> _1\. It is agreed that new power class capability signalling for NR in EN-DC
> is introduced in Rel-16 to distinguish power class capability of NR in EN-DC
> from power class capability of NR in SA._
>
> _2\. It is agreed that Rel-16 UE shall meet same power class requirements
> between single antenna port mode and UL MIMO in SA._
>
> _3\. It is agreed that transparent Tx diversity (TxD) is enabled at least
> from Rel-16 RAN4 specification._
>
> _RAN4 will inform GCF about the progress of Rel-15 power class
> clarification, once consensus is reached."_
The detailed Email summary is in R4-2011860.
In addition, a draft CR to reflect the agreements of new UE capability
signalling to reflect the power class for NR band in MR-DC could be different
from that indicated in SA mode was technically endorsed in R4-2011770. The
contribution was discussed during email thread [96e][121] NR_R16_Maintenance.
The discussion was recorded in R4-2011861.
For eMIMO, reply LS R4-2013040 was received from RAN1 in that the following
answers were provided:
> _Question 1: Whether the two mentioned methods are both feasible to transmit
> the full output power?_
>
> _Answer 1: From RAN1's perspective, both Method-1 and Method-2 can be
> supported for UL full power transmission._
>
> _For two SRS port transmission in method-2, the UE will need to transmit two
> SRS ports on each PA in a symbol, while for method-1 each PA carries one SRS
> port._
>
> _Question 2: If answer is yes, which ULFPTx modes can be supported for these
> two methods?_
>
> _Answer 2: From RAN1's perspective, Method-1 can be supported for any UL
> full power transmission modes, and Method-2 can be supported at least for
> Mode-2 and Mode-full power (i.e., the other mode)._
>
> _Question 3: Whether the ULFPTx mode-2 and the other ULPFTx mode are
> feasible for FR2 UE?_
>
> _Answer 3: From RAN1's perspective, UL full power modes {Mode-1, Mode-2 and
> Mode-full power (i.e., the other mode)} can be supported for FR2._
It can be seen that RAN1 do not mandate any implementation for those modes.
The previously endorsed feature CRs was officially agreed for 38.101-1 and
38.101-2 in R4-2011762 and R4-2011920 respectively. Some remaining issues were
put into maintenance stage from next meeting as documented in the chairman's
notes:
_"The Chairmain commented that for PC2 and PC3, MPR issues related to 2TX,
including UL-MIMO, uplink full power transmission, and TxD, will be further
discussed in TEI16."_
The Email summary for eMIMO can be referenced in R4-2011852.
## A.1.6 RAN4#97-e
In RAN4#97-e meeting, the transparent TxD was discussed under TEI16 as
documented in [R4-2016959] and a WF [R4-2016830] was also agreed. The
agreements reached are as following:
> _Declaration for Default TX Connector_
>
> _UE declares which connectors will be active per band under test. TE needs
> to detect ACK and NACK and any other expected response from UE from all
> declared TX antenna connectors._
>
> _The word "active" can be replaced by "used for TxD during one test
> procedure". (Not necessarily to have transmission all the time.)_
>
> _UE declaration needs to describe exact two antenna connectors under test._
>
> _MPR for Transparent and UL MIMO_
>
> _Whether 2 Tx MPR should be the same MPR requirement for TX Diversity and UL
> MIMO for the same power class._
>
> _Agreement_
>
> _Option 1: Yes_
There are still divided views and some new options were also discussed. The
main points including:
> New EVM definition for transparent TxD
>
> UE behavior on keeping the tx diversity under conformance testing
>
> UE behaviour for power splitting
>
> Signaling for Transparent TxD
>
> Applicability of TxD procedure & requirements
>
> Necessity of CDD related requirement
In addition, there is a long standing RAN5 LS in [R4-1916132] that have not
been replied. One draft reply was prepared in [R4-2015321] but was not
discussed.
For power class related issue, still no concrete agreements can be reached,
the following topic was discussed and only limited progress was made:
> RAN4 clarification of NSA NR power class (Rel-15)
The Email summary is referenced to R4-2016959 .
For eMIMO and ULFPTx related, there is only very few maintenance remains and
only MPR was discussed. The agreement reached is as following:
_"Chair: It is agreed that one set of MPR requirements should be adopted for
both UL MIMO (including ULFPTx) and TxD"_
The email summary is R4-2016955.
## A.1.7 RAN4#98-e
In RAN4#98-e, there are major break through in this topic, and there are clear
agreements and WF for TxD signaling and release independency. In the agreed WF
R4-2103390, the following agreements were made:
> _Signaling for Transparent TxD_
>
> _Whether and how RAN4 introduce signalling for transparent TxD:_
>
> _Option 1: Introduce some sort of signaling by UE_
>
> _Option 1a. Use ModifiedMPRbehavior bits to signal additional relaxations;_
>
> _Option 1b: Introducing a new ( per band capability) signalling for TxD
> together with existing power classes_
>
> _Capability reporting for supporting TxD_
>
> _Option 1c: Introducing a new power class (e.g. PC2.5) for TxD_
>
> _Option 2: Based on UE vendor declaration._
>
> _Option 3: Using existing signalling to indicate the 2Tx implementation
> capability._
>
> _Recommended WF_
>
> _For R15 UEs, UE vendor declaration can be used in testing_
>
> _For R16 UEs, new signaling, i.e. 1b, is needed to inform the network of the
> support of TxD. If the signaling can be made to enable release-independent
> support of TxD from R15 can be consulted with RAN2_
>
> _CDD-related Requirement_
>
> _For transparent TxD UE, necessity of CDD related requirements, e.g.
> requirement on TAE+CDD, is need to be further studied:_
>
> _Proposals_
>
> _Option 1: Yes_
>
> _Option 2: No._
>
> _Option 2b. No at least for Rel-16_
>
> _Recommended WF_
>
> _Option 2b_
For the signalling, an LS out R4-2103360 was agreed and sent to RAN2 with the
following description and action:
> **_"1. Overall Description:_**
RAN4 has agreed to introduce a new per-band capability signaling in Rel-16 for
FR1 UEs supporting transparent TxD.
RAN4 would also like to ask RAN2 to enable release-independent support of this
new capability from Rel-15 for PC2, if possible.
> **_2\. Actions:_**
>
> **_To RAN2:_**
**ACTION:** RAN4 respectfully asks RAN2 to define respective signalling in
Rel-16 and discuss release independence to Rel-15."
For testing related UE behaviour and power splitting behaviour, this meeting
is the last meeting to list the detailed options in the WF, and though NO
AGREEMENTS for any solution could be reached, they could still be considered
as future discussion basis which is as following:
> UE Behavior under Conformance Testing
Background: Motivation is to guide how to test requirements that require power
changes such as relative power control.
Proposals:
> Option 1a: UE will keep the tx diversity status unchanged in conformance
> testing.
>
> Option 1b: Test mode signalling is implemented to instruct UE to keep TX div
> status unchanged
>
> Option 2a: TE will detect and sum for every power step and change in
> condition from **declared** connector, with no precondition
>
> Option 2b: TE will detect and sum for every power step and change in
> condition from **declared** connector, based on pre-condition that a
> repeatability of TxD activation/deactivation timing in a UE is maintained
> can be fulfilled.
>
> Power Splitting Behavior
Background: Motivation is to guide how to test requirements that require power
changes such as relative power control
**Question 1:** What would be the impact for the requirements and testability
with tentative equal power split restriction?
Proposals:
> Option 1: Only allow equal power split between connectors
>
> Excludes 17+17+20 dBm implementations
>
> Excludes power control optimizations
>
> Option 1a: Per instructed as test mode, UE should keep equal power split
> between connectors in all cases.
>
> Option 2: Allow any power split between connectors
A draft CR for 38.101-1 was also technically endorsed. Howver, there are still
unsolved issues such as MPR and the draft CR would be continuiously discussed
an updated in next meeting.
For power class issue, some more issues were raised without proguress.
The Email discussion summary is in R4-2103302.
There is no more discussion in eMIMO agenda.
## A.1.8 RAN4#98-e-bis
In this meeting, there are two way forwards were agreed.
One WF R4-2105330 is for general TxD and power class issue. There are
agreements in EVM and the need for futher MPR evaluation, There are also
discussion on SRS antenna switching and some preliminary agreements were made.
> _CR related -- EVM_
>
> _Proposals:_
>
> _Option 1: As in agreed WF R4-2008465_
$$EVM = \sqrt{(P_{1}_\text{EVM}_{1}^{2} + \ P_{2}_\text{EVM}_{2}^{2})/(P1\ + \
P2)}$$
> _Option 2: As in R4-2107369:_
$$EVM = \frac{P_{1}{\ \bullet EVM}_{1} + {P_{2}\ \bullet EVM}_{2}}{P_{1} +
P_{2}}$$
> _Option 3: RAN4 considers to update the endorsed draft CR for UL Tx
> diversity EVM measurement method with the method presented in R4-2107112. (R
> &S)_
>
> _Agreements(GTW):_
>
> _Option 2_
>
> _For UL MIMO, Option 3 or options along those lines can be further
> considered. Once a solution is agreed, RAN4 can discuss from which release
> onwards it applies_
>
> _CR related - MPR_
>
> _Proposals:_
>
> _Option 1: As in last meeting's Endorsed CR R4-2107307_
>
> _Option 2: Base on the proposals in R4-2104538_
>
> _1.5dB offset for Edge and outer, 0.5dB offset for inner compared to 1Tx_
>
> _Option 3: Reconsider separating MPR requirements for UL-MIMO and TxD_
>
> _Also consider A-MPR impact in next issue and as in R4-2107283_
>
> _Option 4: Keep the same MPR with 1Tx_
>
> _Option 5: Other solution_
>
> _Agreements (GTW) :_
>
> _RAN4 to start a evaluation campaign to derive the MPR values for both UL-
> MIMO and TxD, with agreed evaluation assumptions and UE implementations.
> Decisions will be made in the May meeting_
>
> _CR related - A-MPR_
>
> _Proposals_
>
> _Option 1: A-MPR as band specific requirements could be decoupled from the
> general TxD requirements_
>
> _Option 2: Keeping the agreement of applying same MPR for UL MIMO and Tx
> Diversity would mean changed to the UL MIMO AMPR, too._
>
> _Agreements:_
>
> _Postpone the discussion and treat MPR first_
>
> _Other Issues - Relation with SRS antenna switching_
>
> _Proposals_
>
> _Option 1: UE that supports transparent TxD can have antenna switching SRS
> configured in the same band._
>
> _Option 1a. The ∆TRxSRS needs to be increased by 3 dB overall except for the
> PC2 case which accommodates the use of PA with 3 dB lower power for SRS
> antenna switching._
>
> _Option 1b. Other solutions or requirements._
>
> _Option 2: UE that supports transparent TxD can not have antenna switching
> SRS configured in the same band._
>
> _Agreements:_
>
> _Option 1_
>
> _Further confirm SRS_
>
> _Requirements based on transmission from physical antenna connector and not
> by transparent TxD_
>
> _Detailed requirements FFS_
For the Rel-15 NSA power class issue, there is no progress and companies are
waiting for RAN2's feed back about the release independency to Rel-15:
_"Wait for feedback from Ran2 or wait for ran2 to conclude the work to add TX
diversity capability and conclusion on applicable release."_
Another WF R4-2105331 is MPR evaluation assumptions, it is agreed that an
evaluation is necessary to further progress the MPR work, and a detailed
assumptions were agreed:
_WF on architecture_
> _PC2 with 2x23dBm PAs = > 2Tx NR MPR (High priority)_
>
> _[PC2 with 2x26dBm PAs = > 2Tx NR MPR]_
>
> _[PC2 with 23+26dBm PAs = > 2Tx NR MPR]_
_WF: MPR/AMPR evaluation assumptions (1)_
> _RF assumptions:_
>
> _4dB post PA losses_
>
> _10dB antenna isolation_
>
> _Equal power and Equal back-off power split for the two antennas_
>
> _Usual 3GPP PA calibration for 20MHz QPSK DFT-s-OFDM 100RB0 waveform based
> on 4dB post PA losses and 1dB MPR._
>
> _For 26dBm PA: 29dBm at 31dB ACLR_
>
> _For 23dBm PA: 26dBm at 30dB ACLR_
>
> _RF impairments:_
>
> _Image and carrier leakage is 28dB for up to 64QAM, image is 35dB for
> 256QAM_
>
> _CIM3 is 60dB and CIM5 is 70dB_
>
> _Measurements/simulation is used where two PA are coupled at their outputs
> recreating the 10dB antenna isolation assumption with the Reverse IMD_
>
> _To recreate the effect of CDD the two signal on each antennas can simply
> have a small delay between each other (a fraction of CP)_
>
> _Requirements for back-off evaluation:_
>
> _Emission requirements (ACLR/SEM/spurious emissions of the targeted power
> class) are checked by summing the power of the two transmit paths_
>
> _EVM is checked for the agreed composite EVM equation but with P1 and P2
> assumed equal. EVM should be checked especially for inner at high order
> modulations where RIMD will further degrade the in channel noise floor._
>
> _Whether IBE is checked per antenna or as the sum should be clearly stated_
>
> _MPR is provided in the form of back off of total power versus power class
> nominal power level_
>
> _EVM budget for PA:_
>
> _QPSK 10%_
>
> _16QAM 8%_
>
> _64QAM 4%_
>
> _256QAM 1.8%_
>
> _Evaluation scenarios:_
>
> _Both CP-OFDM and DFT-s-OFDM waveforms are evaluated_
>
> _Since simulation may not be available, at least some worst case corners are
> evaluated for inner/outer and edge allocations_
>
> _Since it has the tighter requirements and highest PSD the lowest valid SCS
> should be used._
>
> _All modulation orders should be checked:_
>
> _Pi/2 BPSK (no shaping), QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM, 256QAM (for 256QAM mostly EVM
> with proper image level)_
>
> _Channel BW configurations should cover the entire channel bandwidth range:_
>
> _At least 5, 20, 50, 100MHz channel bandwidths (depends on the supported CBW
> of the operating band)_
In addition, there is following chairman's notesChair: Charter requested "[PC3
with 2x20dBm PAs => 2Tx NRU MPR (Low priority)]" be added to page 2.
The email summary is as in R4-2105440.
## A.1.9 RAN4#99e
In this meeting, RAN2 Reply LS was received in R4-2107616, in which the
feasibility of release independency to Rel-15 by allowing early implementation
was confirmed. Further questions were also raised to about applicable power
classes and if there are dependencies with other capabilities;
**_"RAN2 thanks RAN4 for the LS on signalling scheme of transparent TxD._**
**_Regarding the new per-band capability signaling in Rel-16 for FR1 UEs
supporting transparent TxD, RAN2 can add the corresponding capability in
corresponding specification (TS 38.331 and TS 38.306)._**
**_RAN2 has discussed whether to enable release-independent support of this
new capability from Rel-15, and the following agreements have been
achieved:_**
> **_RAN2 can support release independent capability of transparent TxD for
> Rel-15, by allowing early implementation of the Rel-16 CRs._**
>
> **_It is possible to only apply the change for this new capability for PC2
> UEs for Rel-15, but RAN2 would like to understand whether the Rel-16
> capability signalling applies for all PCs, while Rel-15 capability
> signalling applies for just PC2 (as this difference in Rel-15 and Rel-16
> capability might impact the signalling design)?_**
>
> **_RAN2 would also like to confirm whether this new capability has any
> dependencies with other capabilities that should be captured by RAN2 (since
> the capability is intended as release independent, RAN2 may need to capture
> such pre-requisites explicitly)."_**
The key agreements for TxD and power class related issues were documented in
the agreed WF R4-2107740. The TxD related part is as following:
In the WF, the applicable power class for capability signaling was confirmed.
However, the dependencies with other capabilities were still under discussion.
_LS related - Applicable power class for capability signaling in different
releases_
> _Proposals:_
>
> _Option 1: Applies for all Power Classes for both Rel-15 and Rel-16_
>
> _Option 2: Applies for only PC2 for Rel-15, and for all power classes in
> Rel-16;_
>
> _Option 3: Others_
>
> _Agreement (GTW): Option 1_
For the MPR, there is no agreement reached and only very wide ranges were
proposed. This need to be further discussed.
> In this meeting, RAN4 will try to agree on the ranges for MPR values if
> possible, and in the next meeting, RAN4 can down-select to concrete value
> within the agreed range.
New agreements were reached on TxD EVM spectrum flatness;
_Remaining Issues - TxD EVM spectrum flatness_
> _Agreements_
>
> _Based on R4-2108793 with the following updated equation for composite
> equalizer:_
$$EC(f) = \frac{P_{1}{\ \bullet |EC}_{1}\left( f \right)| + {P_{2}\ \bullet
|EC}_{2}(f)|}{P_{1} + P_{2}}$$
The two controversial testing related issues were moved to RAN5.
_Remaining Issues - Testing related issues_
> _Proposals_
>
> _Option 1: Leave these discussions to RAN5 and not pursue them before
> agreement of RAN4 CR._
>
> _Option 2: Continue discussion in RAN4._
_Agreement:_
> _Option 1_
_Remaining Issues - TxD antenna and channel models_
> _Proposals_
>
> _Option 1: No more discussion on these issues._
>
> _Option 2: Further discuss the relevant antenna and channel models and their
> impact as part of, and prior to, concluding on conformance testing
> methodologies and reference receivers for TxD with conducted measurements._
_Agreements:_
> _Option 1_
Significant progress for power class issues were reached in this meeting,
since there is a confirmation of feasibility of release independency of TxD
from Rel-15.
For Rel-15 EN-DC power class issue, i.e. the "famous sentence", a draft CR
R4-2107781 was endorsed, in which the description of multiple power class
possibilities for NR part of NSA in Rel-15 was confined only be allowed in
case TxD is supported and signaled. In case TxD was not indicated by
signaling, the current behaviour of multiple power class possibilities for NR
part of NSA can be removed.
For Rel-15 SA power class issue, an agreement was reached in R4-2107740,
> _Power class related- Fallback to 1-port Tx for SA in Rel-15_
>
> _Proposals_
>
> _Option 1: Confirm ue-PowerClass should always be supported for 1-port
> transmission fall back mode for SA in Rel-15._
>
> _UE do not support TxD capability would equip a full power chain_
>
> _For UE support TxD capability, when falls back to 1-port transmission, it
> is also reasonable to suppose it would use TxD to achieve ue-PowerClass in
> standalone mode_
>
> _Option 2: Others_
>
> _Tentative agreements:_
>
> _Option 1_
>
> _Discuss in next meeting whether Rel-15 CR would be introduced to clarify
> the understanding_
However, there is still no conclusion for Pcmax for NR for Rel-15 EN-DC, which
is also documented in R4-2107740,
> _Power class related- The Pcmax for NR for Rel-15 EN-DC_
>
> _Proposals_
>
> _Option 1: The Pcmax for NR is modified to use the lower possible power
> class to decide the lower bound of the configured power. (Huawei)_
>
> _Option 2: The Pcmax for NR is modified according to the declared NR power
> capability for NSA so that the PHR becomes correct. (Ericsson)_
>
> _Option 3:Do not consider further refinements of Pcmax for NR._
>
> _Option 4: Others_
>
> _Agreements :_
>
> _FFS_
In addition, there is another specific agreed WF for SRS antenna switching
requirements for TxD in R4-2107981, since this is a complicated issue that
needs further discussion. The following agreements were captured:
> _In GTW, the following are agreed_
>
> _SRS antenna switching which was targeted for DL CSI would not use UL
> antenna virtualization, i.e. UL TxD_
>
> _SRS antenna switching functionality cannot be excluded for UE supporting
> TxD._
>
> _And Chair guidance:_
>
> _Leave discussion on concrete value for loss and how to combine Option 1 and
> 2 to further email discussion._
_Agreed WF_
> _Introduce PC1.5 to spec_
>
> _Explicit introduce TxD for SRS antenna switching IL, but how to harmonize
> with the current SRS conditions are FFS, and the exact IL values are FFS_
>
> _At least following PC2 UE architectures with TxD but without antenna
> virtualization for all antenna ports are to be analyzed in #100e_
>
> _23PA+23PA_
>
> _26PA+23PA_
>
> _26PA+26PA_
>
> _At least 1T2R, 1T4R, 2T4R and 1T4R/2T4R srs-TxSwitch are to be analyzed in
> #100e_
>
> _A big CR will be used to capture the agreement in #100e together with other
> TxD issues._
There are also more detailed background and reference paper in the WF.
The previous endorsed general TxD draft CR were also updated in this meeting
as R4-2107782, however it was postponed in this meeting, since there are some
items were deemed not included yet.
The Email discussion summary can be referenced to R4-2107919.
# A.2 Key Contributions
Editor's note: This clause intends to list key related documents for every
meeting and all the CRs/WF/LS were approved/agreed unless otherwise stated.
## A.2.1 Before RAN4#94-e-bis
> R4-1710109, "LS on UL diversity transmission for PUSCH with CP-OFDM", RAN1,
> Mitsubitshi, 3GPP TSG RAN WG4 Meeting #84Bis, Dubrovnik, Croatia, 09 - 13
> October, 2017
>
> R4-1803259, Proposal on NR HPUE definition for PC2, CMCC, Huawei, HiSilicon,
> OPPO, vivo, Xiaomi, ZTE, CATT, Intel, Qorvo, Skyworks, broadcom
>
> R4-1816615, WF on PC2 UL MIMO, Huawei, HiSilicon, Qualcomm
>
> R4-1902497, Reply LS on new UE capability for Full TX power UL transmission,
> vivo
>
> R4-1910343, WF on how to enable TX diversity type UEs, Qualcomm, RAN4#92
>
> R4-1910344, LS on the testability of FR1 Tx diversity, RAN4#92
>
> R4-1908472, "How to enable TX diversity type UEs", Qualcomm Incorporated
>
> R4-1909922, "On UL MIMO and Tx diversity requirements", Huawei
>
> R4-1913067, Summary of Tx diversity and eMIMO full power transmission,
> Ericsson, RAN4#92bis
>
> R4-1916132, Response LS on the testability of FR1 Tx diversity, RAN4#93
>
> R4-1916137, CR to 38.101-3: clarification of ENDC power class in R15, vivo,
> RAN4#93
## A.2.2 RAN4#94-e-Bis
> R4-2005652, WF on Uplink Full Power Transmission, Samsung
>
> R4-2005695, Email discussion summary for [94e Bis][12] NR_eMIMO_UE_RF
>
> R4-2005687, Email discussion summary for [94e Bis][3] NR_NewRAT_UE_RF_Part_2
>
> R4-2005216, WF on Power Class related UL MIMO and other requirements
## A.2.3 RAN4#95-e
> R4-2008462 WF on Uplink Full Power Transmission
>
> R4-2008465 WF on Enabling Transparent TxD in Rel-16
>
> R4-2009171 LS on clarification of transparent diversity feasibility
>
> R4-2008946 Email discussion summary for [95e][116] NR_eMIMO_UE_RF
>
> R4-2008935 Email discussion summary for [95e][104] NR_NewRAT_UE_RF_Part_3
>
> R4-2006116, LS on requirement in Power Class 2 for UL MIMO Test cases, GCF-
> CAG, RAN4#95-e
## A.2.4 RAN#88-e
> RP-201032 On Rel-16 EN-DC power class Huawei, HiSilicon
>
> RP-201392 LS on introducing UE capability for power class for NR band in MR-
> DC combination (From: RAN; to: RAN2; cc: RAN4; contact: Huawei)
## A.2.5 RAN4#96-e
> R4-2011860 Email discussion summary for [96e][120] NR_TxD Moderator (vivo)
>
> R4-2011768 WF on Rel-16 TxD Samsung
>
> R4-2011903 LS on NR power class clarification to GCF CAG, cc RAN5 Source:
> RAN4
>
> R4-2011852 Email discussion summary for [96e][112] NR_eMIMO_UE_RF Source:
> Moderator (Samsung)
>
> R4-2011770 draft CR for TS 38.101-3 introduce new power class for EN-DC
> Huawei
>
> R4-2011762 CR to TS38.101-1 on introduction of Uplink Full Power
> Transmission Source: Samsung, Qualcomm
>
> R4-2011920 CR to TS38.101-2 on ULFPTx and UE SRS port configuration
> clarification Source: Qualcomm Incorporated
>
> R4-2013040 Reply LS on feasibility of UL FPT modes and transparent TxD for
> certain UE implementations RAN1
## A.2.6 RAN4#97-e
> R4-2016959 Email discussion summary for [97e][115] NR_TxD Source: Moderator
> (vivo)
>
> R4-2016830 WF on NR TxD & Power Class Source: vivo
>
> R4-2016955 Email discussion summary for [97e][111] NR_eMIMO_UE_RF Source:
> Moderator (Samsung)
## A.2.7 RAN4#98-e
> R4-2103302 Email discussion summary for [98e][112] NR_TxD Source: Moderator
> (vivo)
>
> R4-2103390 Way forward on NR TxD Source: vivo
>
> R4-2103360 LS on Signaling scheme of Transparent TxD to RAN2, cc RAN1, RAN5
> Source: RAN4
>
> R4-2103156 CR for TS 38.101-1: TxD requirements Source: Huawei, HiSilicon
## A.2.8 RAN4#98-e-bis
> R4-2105440 Email discussion summary for [98-bis-e][101] NR_TxD Source:
> Moderator (vivo)
>
> R4-2105330 Way forward on NR TxD & Power Class Source:vivo
>
> R4-2105331 Way forward on MPR evaluation for NR TxD & UL-MIMO Source:vivo,
> Skyworks
## A.2.9 RAN4#99e
> R4-2107616 Reply LS to RAN4 on the capability of transparent TxD (RAN2)
> Type: LS in For: Information Original outgoing LS: -, to RAN4, cc RAN1, RAN5
>
> R4-2107919 Email discussion summary for [99-e][109] NR_TxD Source: Moderator
> (Vivo)
>
> R4-2107740 Way Forward on NR TxD & Power Class Source: Vivo
>
> R4-2107981 Way Forward on SRS antenna switching requirements for TxD Source:
> OPPO
>
> R4-2107782 CR for TS 38.101-1 Tx diversity requirements (Postponed) Source:
> Huawei,HiSilicon, vivo, OPPO
>
> R4-2107781 Correction of general description of EN-DC related power class
> based on the TxD capability Source: vivo
>
> R4-2111009 Evaluation of Reverse IMD versus antenna isolation and its impact
> to MPR, Skyworks Solutions, Inc. RAN4#99-e
>
> R4-2111011 MPR evaluation for PC2 transparent Tx diversity , Skyworks
> Solutions, Inc. RAN4#99-e
>
> R4-2111023 PC2 contiguous UL CA using transparent Tx Diversity or UL MIMO,
> Skyworks Solutions, Inc. RAN4#99-e
## A.2.10 RAN4#100e
> R4-2114545 PC2 TxD MPR evaluation and SD-CDD waveform choice, Skyworks
> Solutions, Inc. RAN4#100-e
>
> R4-2114753 WF on TxD MPR values, Skyworks Solutions, Inc. RAN4#100-e
>
> R4-2114556 PC1.5 MPR evaluation for FWA, Skyworks Solutions Inc. RAN4#100-e
>
> R4-2115103 CR to 38.101-1: Introduction of PC1.5 in Bands n77 and n78,
> Qualcomm Incorporated, Verizon, LG Electronics, Skyworks Solutions, Inc,
> CMCC, Huawei, HiSilicon, Samsung, AT&T, RAN4#100-e
## A.2.11 RAN4#101e
> R4-2119971 Draft CR on MPR of Tx Diversity (TxD) PC2 for two PC3 PA
> architecture, LG Electronics, RAN4#101-e
>
> R4-2119977 Draft CR TS 38.101-1: Move PC1.5 MPR to Clause 6.2G, Huawei,
> HiSilicon, Qualcomm, RAN4#101-e
## A.2.12 RAN4#101b-e
> R4-2202349 Draft CR TS 38.101-1 R17: moving 2Tx MPR to clause 6.2D and
> amending PC2 2TX MPR, Skyworks, Huawei, HiSilicon, Qualcomm, LG Electronics,
> RAN4#101b-e
#