# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
In RAN #86 meeting, a new Rel-17 study item on NR coverage enhancements was
approved [2]. The objective of this study item is to study potential coverage
enhancement solutions for specific scenarios for both FR1 and FR2. The
detailed objectives are as follows.
\- The target scenarios and services include
\- Urban (outdoor gNB serving indoor UEs) scenario, and rural scenario
(including extreme long distance rural scenario) for FR1
\- Indoor scenario (indoor gNB serving indoor UEs), and urban/suburban
scenario (including outdoor gNB serving outdoor UEs and outdoor gNB serving
indoor UEs) for FR2.
\- TDD and FDD for FR1.
\- VoIP and eMBB service for FR1.
\- eMBB service as first priority and VoIP as second priority for FR2.
\- LPWA services and scenarios are not included.
\- Identify baseline coverage performance for both DL and UL for the above
scenarios and services based on link-level simulation
\- UL channels (including PUSCH and PUCCH) are prioritized for FR1.
\- Both DL and UL channels for FR2.
\- Identify the performance target for coverage enhancement, and study the
potential solutions for coverage enhancements for the above scenarios and
services
\- The target channels include at least PUSCH/PUCCH
\- Study enhanced solutions, e.g., time domain/frequency domain/DM-RS
enhancement (including DM-RS-less transmissions)
\- Study the additional enhanced solutions for FR2 if any
\- Evaluate the performance of the potential solutions based on link level
simulation.
# 1 Scope
The present document captures the results and findings from the study item
\"New SID on NR coverage enhancement\" [2]. The purpose of this TR is to
**document the baseline coverage performance for both FR1 and FR2**
considering the scenarios and services identified in [2], **and to document
the evaluation and findings of the potential enhancements for the identified**
scenarios and services.
This activity involves the Radio Access work area of the 3GPP studies and has
potential impacts both on the Mobile Equipment and Access Network of the 3GPP
systems.
This document is a \'living\' document, i.e. it is permanently updated and
presented to TSG-RAN meetings.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP RP-193240: \"New SID on NR coverage enhancement\".
[3] Report ITU-R M.2412: \"Guidelines for evaluation of radio interface
technologies for IMT-2020\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ACK Acknowledgement
BWP Bandwidth Part
BS Base Station
CSI Channel State Information
CCE Control Channel Element
DL Downlink
DMRS Dedicated Demodulation Reference Signals
eMBB enhanced Mobile BroadBand
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
gNB NR Node B
HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat reQuest
iBLER initial BLock Error Rate
LLS Link Level Simulation
MCS Modulation and Coding Scheme
NACK Negative Acknowledgement
OS OFDM symbol
PDCCH Physical Downlink Control Channel
PUCCH Physical Uplink Control Channel
PUSCH Physical Uplink Shared Channel
PDSCH Physical Downlink Shared Channel
PRACH Physical Random Access Channel
PRB Physical Resource Block
rBLER residual BLock Error Rate
SCS Subcarrier Spacing
SLS System Level Simulation
SR Scheduling Request
SSB Synchronization Signal Block
TBS Transport Block Size
TDD Time Division Duplex
UCI Uplink Control Information
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
# 4 Evaluation methodology
For this study item, the basic evaluation methodology is based on link-level
simulation and articulated in 2 steps. Simulation assumptions for step 1 are
provided in Annex A.1 for FR1 and A.2 for FR2, respectively. Link budget
template for step 2 is provided in Annex A.3.
\- Step 1: Obtain the required SINR for the physical channels under target
scenarios and service/reliability requirements. Simulations have been
conducted neglecting:
\- Constraints imposed by certain beamforming implementation, such as the
possibility to simultaneously receive or transmit with maximum gain in more
than one direction;
\- PTRS overhead and compensation algorithms.
\- Step 2: Obtain the baseline performance based on required SINR and link
budget template.
The evaluation methodology based on system-level simulation is optional and
the simulation assumptions for system-level simulation are up to companies\'
reports.
## 4.1 Antenna gain modelling
### 4.1.1 gNB antenna gain modelling
For link level simulation, two options for TDL channel model are considered:
\- TDL channel model option 1: 2 or 4 gNB RF chains in LLS
\- TDL channel model option 2 (optional): number of gNB RF chains in LLS =
number of TXRUs
For TDL channel model option 1, the complexity of link level simulation can be
simplified, while the practical gNB architecture can be reflected in TDL
channel model option 2.
Figure 4.1-1 and Figure 4.1-2 depict gNB antenna gain modelling for TDL
channel model option 1, and TDL channel model option 2 and CDL channel model
respectively. _M_ is the number of antenna elements, _N_ is the number of
TXRUs, _k_ is the number of RF chains considered in LLS. For TDL channel model
option 1, gNB antenna gains include 4 components, i.e., antenna gain component
1/2/3/4. For TDL channel model option 2 and CDL channel model, gNB antenna
gains include 3 components, i.e., antenna gain component 1/3/4. The antenna
gain component 1 is included in LLS, while the antenna gain component 2/3/4
are included in link budget template.
{width="6.5159722222222225in" height="2.379166666666667in"}
Figure 4.1-1: gNB antenna gain modelling for TDL channel model option 1
{width="5.258333333333334in" height="2.5in"}
Figure 4.1-2: gNB antenna gain modelling for TDL channel model option 2 and
CDL channel model
For TDL channel model option 1, the gain of antenna gain component 2 is
expressed by:
Antenna gain component 2 = 10 * log 10(_N_ /_k_)-∆1,
where ∆1 is a correction factor to account for various non-idealities
impacting the actual gain of antenna gain component 2, and reported by
companies.
For TDL channel model option 2 and CDL channel model, antenna gain component 2
= 0.
For TDL channel model option 1, option 2 and CDL channel model, the gain of
antenna gain components 3 and 4 is expressed by:
Antenna gain component 3 + Antenna gain component 4 = Antenna Element Gain +
10 * log 10(_M_ /_N_) -∆2.
where ∆2 is a correction factor to account for various non-idealities
impacting the actual gain of antenna gain component 3, and reported by
companies.
### 4.1.2 UE antenna gain modelling
UE antenna gain is expressed by:
UE antenna gain = Antenna Element Gain + 10 * log 10(_M_ /_k_) -∆3.
For FR1, antenna element gain = 0dBi; while for FR2, antenna element gain =
5dBi.
where _k_ is the number of Tx/Rx chains, e.g., number of SRS/CSI-RS ports to
be simulated in LLS and _M_ is the number of antenna elements used for both
transmission and reception, i.e., _M/_ 2 xpol antenna elements.
For FR1, _k_ = _M_ is assumed for the simulations, and _k_ =1 for Tx (optional
_k_ = 2), while _k_ ∈{2,4} for Rx.
For FR2, there are two options for simulations:
\- Option 1: _k_ ∈{1,2}for Tx and _k_ = 2 for Rx,
\- Option 2: _k_ = _M_ .
∆3 is a correction factor to account for various non-idealities impacting the
actual antenna array gain. For FR1, ∆3=0; while for FR2, ∆3 is
channel/procedure dependent and reported by companies.
## 4.2 Performance metrics
For LLS based methodology, coverage bottleneck(s) identification is performed
using at least MIL or MCL (assuming the set of simulation assumptions). Even
when SLS is used to obtain some components of MIL or MCL, it is categorized as
LLS based methodology. MCL values can also be used to identify the coverage
bottleneck(s). MPL can be used as supplemental information for coverage
bottleneck(s) identification.
The targets are in the form of the following:
**1\. Scenario dependent targets defined by MPL, which is calculated from
target ISD;**
\- For each scenario, multiple target ISD values can be used to draw
observations, and a single target ISD value can be used to identify
bottlenecks. Target ISD values for each scenario are as follows
\- For FR1,
\- Urban 4GHz TDD -- 400, 500m for observation and 400m for bottleneck
identification
\- Urban 2.6GHz TDD -- 400, 500m for observation and 400m for bottleneck
identification
\- Rural 4GHz TDD NLOS O2I -- 1732 and 3000 m for observation and 1732m with
33dBm/MHz BS transmit power for bottleneck identification
\- Rural 2.6 GHz TDD NLOS O2I -- 1732 m for observation and bottleneck
identification
\- Rural 2 GHz FDD NLOS O2I -- 1732 m for observation and bottleneck
identification
\- Rural 700MHz FDD NLOS O2I -- 3000 m, 4000 m for observation and 4000m for
bottleneck identification
\- Rural with long distance 4GHz TDD LOS O2O -- 12 km for observation and
bottleneck identification
\- For FR2,
\- Urban 28GHz TDD -- 200m for observation and bottleneck identification
\- Indoor 28 GHz TDD -- 20m for observation and bottleneck identification
\- The following formula is used to convert an ISD value to a target MPL
value:
\- For urban scenarios with $0.5GHz \leq f_{c} \leq 6GHz,\ $(based on UMA_A
NLOS model in [3]),
$- Target\ MPL\ \left( \text{dB} \right) = 161.04 - 7.1 \bullet
\log_{10}\left( W \right) + 7.5 \bullet \log_{10}\left( h \right) - \left(
24.37 - 3.7 \bullet \left( \frac{h}{h_{\text{BS}}} \right)^{2} \right) \bullet
\log_{10}\left( h_{\text{BS}} \right) + \left( 43.42 - 3.1 \bullet
\log_{10}\left( h_{\text{BS}} \right) \right) \bullet \left( \log_{10}\left(
d_{3D} \right) - 3 \right) + 20 \bullet \log_{10}\left( f_{c} \right) - \left(
3.2 \bullet \left( \log_{10}\left( 11.75 \bullet h_{\text{UT}} \right)
\right)^{2} - 4.97 \right) - 0.6 \bullet \left( h_{\text{UT}} - 1.5 \right),$
where $W = 20m$ is the average street width, $h = 20m$ is the average building
height, $h_{\text{BS}} = 25m$ is the BS antenna height, $h_{\text{UT}} = 1.5m$
is the UT antenna height, $f_{c}$ is the carrier frequency and $d_{3D}$ is the
target range calculated by ISD/sqrt(3).
\- For rural scenarios (based on RMA_A NLOS model in [3]),
$- Target\ MPL\ \left( \text{dB} \right) = 161.04 - 7.1 \bullet
\log_{10}\left( W \right) + 7.5 \bullet \log_{10}\left( h \right) - \left(
24.37 - 3.7 \bullet \left( \frac{h}{h_{\text{BS}}} \right)^{2} \right) \bullet
\log_{10}\left( h_{\text{BS}} \right) + \left( 43.42 - 3.1 \bullet
\log_{10}\left( h_{\text{BS}} \right) \right) \bullet \left( \log_{10}\left(
d_{3D} \right) - 3 \right) + 20 \bullet \log_{10}\left( f_{c} \right) - \left(
3.2 \bullet \left( \log_{10}\left( 11.75 \bullet h_{\text{UT}} \right)
\right)^{2} - 4.97 \right),$where $W = 20m$, $h = 5m$, $h_{\text{BS}} = 35m$,
$h_{\text{UT}} = 1.5m$ and $d_{3D}$ is the target range calculated by
ISD/sqrt(3).
\- For rural with long distance scenarios (based on RMa_A LOS model in [3]),
$- Target\ MPL\ \left( \text{dB} \right) = 20 \bullet \log_{10}\left( 40
\bullet \pi \bullet d_{\text{BP}} \bullet \frac{f_{c}}{3} \right) + min\left(
0.03 \bullet h^{1.72},10 \right) \bullet \log_{10}\left( d_{\text{BP}} \right)
- \min\left( 0.044 \bullet h^{1.72},14.77 \right) + 0.002 \bullet
\log_{10}\left( h \right) \bullet d_{\text{BP}} + 40 \bullet \log_{10}\left(
\frac{d_{3D}}{d_{\text{BP}}} \right),$ where $h = 5m$, $d_{\text{BP}} = 2
\bullet \pi \bullet h_{\text{BS}} \bullet h_{\text{UT}} \bullet
\frac{f_{c}}{c}$, $h_{\text{BS}} = 35m$, $h_{\text{UT}} = 1.5m$, $c = 3
\bullet 10^{8}m/s$ and $d_{3D}$ is the target range calculated by ISD/sqrt(3).
\- For urban scenarios with $6GHz  | | | | | | 14 OS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 2 | FR1 | | 0.8 dB | 4GHz, | | ( | | | | \'DDDSU\' | | R1-2007743) | | | | (S: | | | | | | 10D:2G:2U) | | | | | | | | | | | | Baseline | | | | | | scheme: | | | | | | 14-symbol | | | | | | PUSCH, | | | | | | MCS#5 | | | | | | | | | | | | Enhanced | | | | | | scheme: | | | | | | 16-symbol | | | | | | PUSCH, | | | | | | MSC#4 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | FR1 | | 0.8 dB | 4GHz, | | | | | | \'DDDSU\' | | | | | | (S: | | | | | | 10D:2G:2U) | | | | | | | | | | | | Baseline | | | | | | scheme: | | | | | | PUSCH of 2 | | | | | | r | | | | | | epetitions, | | | | | | and the | | | | | | length of | | | | | | each | | | | | | nominal | | | | | | repetition | | | | | | is L=8. | | | | | | | | | | | | Enhanced | | | | | | scheme: | | | | | | Actual | | | | | | repetition | | | | | | can cross | | | | | | slot | | | | | | boundary. | | | | | | The | | | | | | duration of | | | | | | each actual | | | | | | repetition | | | | | | is L=8. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 3 | FR1 | 2dB | | For some RV | | ( | | | | and TDD | | R1-2007680) | | | | con | | | | | | figuration, | | | | | | especially | | | | | | for RV0 or | | | | | | RV3 with | | | | | | higher | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | code rate | | | | | | due to | | | | | | limited | | | | | | symbols for | | | | | | actual | | | | | | repetition. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 4 | FR1 | | 2dB | 4GHz, | | ( | | | | DDDSU, | | R1-2009583) | | | | rural, | | | | | | 3km/hr, | | | | | | 3PRBs, 2 | | | | | | DMRS, | | | | | | | | | | | | [Baseline | | | | | | scheme]{. | | | | | | underline}: | | | | | | 14-symbol | | | | | | PUSCH, | | | | | | MCS#7 | | | | | | | | | | | | [Enh | | | | | | ancement]{. | | | | | | underline}: | | | | | | 16-symbol | | | | | | extended | | | | | | PUSCH, | | | | | | MCS#5 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 0.38dB | | 4GHz, | | | | | | DDDSU, | | | | | | rural, | | | | | | 120km/hr, | | | | | | 3PRBs, | | | | | | MCS#5 | | | | | | | | | | | | [Baseline | | | | | | scheme]{. | | | | | | underline}: | | | | | | 14-symbol | | | | | | PUSCH, 4 | | | | | | DMRS | | | | | | | | | | | | [Enh | | | | | | ancement]{. | | | | | | underline}: | | | | | | 16-symbol | | | | | | extended | | | | | | PUSCH, 5 | | | | | | DMRS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | 0.36dB | 4GHz, | | | | | | DDDSU, | | | | | | rural | | | | | | 120km/hr, | | | | | | 2PRBs | | | | | | MCS#9 | | | | | | | | | | | | [Baseline | | | | | | scheme]{. | | | | | | underline}: | | | | | | 14-symbol | | | | | | PUSCH, 4 | | | | | | DMRS | | | | | | | | | | | | [Enh | | | | | | ancement]{. | | | | | | underline}: | | | | | | 16-symbol | | | | | | extended | | | | | | PUSCH, 5 | | | | | | DMRS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | 0.2dB | 4GHz, | | | | | | DDDSU, | | | | | | rural | | | | | | 120km/hr, | | | | | | 2PRBs, | | | | | | MCS#8 | | | | | | | | | | | | [Baseline | | | | | | scheme]{. | | | | | | underline}: | | | | | | 14-symbol | | | | | | PUSCH, 2 | | | | | | DMRS | | | | | | | | | | | | [Enh | | | | | | ancement]{. | | | | | | underline}: | | | | | | 16-symbol | | | | | | extended | | | | | | PUSCH, 3 | | | | | | DMRS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 0.33dB | | 4GHz, | | | | | | DDDSU, | | | | | | rural | | | | | | 120km/hr, 5 | | | | | | PRBs, | | | | | | MCS#2 | | | | | | | | | | | | [Baseline | | | | | | scheme]{. | | | | | | underline}: | | | | | | 14-symbol | | | | | | PUSCH, 3 | | | | | | DMRS | | | | | | | | | | | | [Enh | | | | | | ancement]{. | | | | | | underline}: | | | | | | 16-symbol | | | | | | extended | | | | | | PUSCH, 4 | | | | | | DMRS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | FR2 | 3 | | PUSCH, | | | | 0PRB$\right | | 28GHz, | | | | arrow$26PRB | | DDDSU, | | | | | | eMBB, | | | | | | 2DMRS, | | | | | | indoor, | | | | | | (Gain in | | | | | | terms of | | | | | | the number | | | | | | of RBs | | | | | | reduced), | | | | | | MCS#5 | | | | | | | | | | | | [Baseline | | | | | | scheme]{. | | | | | | underline}: | | | | | | 14-symbol | | | | | | PUSCH | | | | | | [Enh | | | | | | ancement]{. | | | | | | underline}: | | | | | | 16-symbol | | | | | | extended | | | | | | PUSCH | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | FR1 | | 3 | PUSCH, | | | | | 8PRB$\right | 4GHz, | | | | | arrow$33PRB | DDDSU, | | | | | | VoIP, | | | | | | rural, | | | | | | 2DMRS,pi/2 | | | | | | BPSK (Gain | | | | | | in terms of | | | | | | the number | | | | | | of RBs | | | | | | reduced) , | | | | | | MCS#0 | | | | | | | | | | | | [Baseline | | | | | | scheme]{. | | | | | | underline}: | | | | | | 14-symbol | | | | | | PUSCH | | | | | | [Enh | | | | | | ancement]{. | | | | | | underline}: | | | | | | 16-symbol | | | | | | extended | | | | | | PUSCH | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | FR1 | 1.3dB | | PUSCH, | | | | | | 4GHz, | | | | | | DDDSU, | | | | | | eMBB, | | | | | | rural, | | | | | | QPSK, 4 | | | | | | PRB, | | | | | | 120km/hr | | | | | | | | | | | | [Baseline | | | | | | scheme]{. | | | | | | underline}: | | | | | | 14-symbol | | | | | | PUSCH, | | | | | | 2DMRS, | | | | | | MCS#3 | | | | | | | | | | | | [Enh | | | | | | ancement]{. | | | | | | underline}: | | | | | | 16-symbol | | | | | | extended | | | | | | PUSCH, | | | | | | 3DMRS, | | | | | | MCS#2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 5 | FR1 | | 1.75 dB | 4GHz O2I, | | ( | | | | DDDSUDDDSU, | | R1-2009647) | | | | max # of | | | | | | HARQ tx: 4, | | | | | | Latency: 50 | | | | | | ms, TBS: | | | | | | 368, For | | | | | | VoIP, 2% | | | | | | rBLER | | | | | | | | | | | | Baseline | | | | | | scheme: | | | | | | PUSCH | | | | | | symbol | | | | | | length: {2, | | | | | | 14, 2, 14} | | | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | nhancement: | | | | | | PUSCH | | | | | | symbol | | | | | | length: 16 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | FR2 | | 1.4 dB | 28GHz O2I, | | | | | | DDDSUDDDSU, | | | | | | max # of | | | | | | HARQ tx: | | | | | | 16, | | | | | | Latency: 50 | | | | | | ms, TBS: | | | | | | 368, For | | | | | | VoIP, 2% | | | | | | rBLER | | | | | | | | | | | | Baseline | | | | | | scheme: | | | | | | PUSCH | | | | | | symbol | | | | | | length: {2, | | | | | | 14, 2, 14} | | | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | nhancement: | | | | | | PUSCH | | | | | | symbol | | | | | | length: 16 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Seven sources (R1-2008874, R1-2007905, R1-2007954, R1-2008626, R1-2009583,
R1-2009792, R1-2007930) evaluate the performance of TB processing over multi-
slot PUSCH.
\- Two sources (R1-2008874, R1-2008626) show 0.6\~2 dB SNR gain when TBS
determined based on multiple slots and transmitted over multiple slots for
VoIP at 2% rBLER for FR1, compared to TB is determined based on single slot
with repetition in Rel-16. HARQ is not used. If HARQ is enabled, legacy
transmissions incur increased frequency domain resource use and a fair
comparison cannot be made. Different redundancy version {0, 2, 3, 1} is used
for repetitions in R1-2008874. The same redundancy version is used for
repetitions in R1-2008626. Gains due to reduction in upper-layer
(MAC/RLC/PDCP) headers is not reflected in R1-2008626.
\- Two sources (R1-2008874, R1-2008626) show 1.0\~2.7 dB SNR gain when TBS
determined based on multiple slots and transmitted over multiple slots for
eMBB at 10% iBLER for FR1, compared to TB is determined based on single slot
with repetition in Rel-16. HARQ is not used. If HARQ is enabled, legacy
transmissions incur increased frequency domain resource use and a fair
comparison cannot be made. Different redundancy version {0, 2, 3, 1} is used
for repetitions in R1-2008874. The same redundancy version is used for
repetitions in R1-2008626. Gains due to reduction in upper-layer
(MAC/RLC/PDCP) headers is not reflected in R1-2008626.
\- One source (R1-2007905) shows 0.8 dB SNR gain when TBS determined based on
multiple slots and transmitted over multiple slots for eMBB at 10% iBLER for
FR1, compared to TB is determined based on single slot with repetition in
Rel-16. HARQ is not used. The same redundancy version is used for repetitions.
\- One source (R1-2009792) show 1.0 dB SNR gain when TBS determined based on
multiple slots and transmitted over multiple slots for eMBB at 10% iBLER for
FR1 and cross-slot channel estimation is used, compared to TB is determined
based on single slot with repetition in Rel-16 without cross-slot channel
estimation. HARQ is not used. The same redundancy version is used for
repetitions.
\- One source (R1-2009583) shows 0.4 and 2.0 dB SNR gain and with different
number of aggregated slots and modulation schemes when TBS determined based on
multiple slots and transmitted over multiple slots for VoIP at 2% rBLER for
FR1 FDD and cross-slot channel estimation is used, compared to TB is
determined based on single slot without repetition in Rel-16. HARQ is not
used. Up to 10dB power boosting gain can be obtained depending on different
number of aggregated slots when TBS determined based on multiple slots and
transmitted over multiple slots for FR1 FDD VoIP.
\- One source (R1-2009583) shows 0\~1.75 dB SNR gain when TBS determined based
on multiple slots and transmitted over multiple slots for eMBB at 10% iBLER
for FR1 and cross-slot channel estimation is used, compared to TB is
determined based on single slot without repetition in Rel-16. HARQ is not
used. Up to 6.98 dB power boosting gain can be obtained depending on the
number of aggregated slots when TBS determined based on multiple slots and
transmitted over multiple slots for FR1 eMBB.
\- One source (R1-2007954) shows 0.2 dB SNR gain and 6.2 dB link budget gain
when TBS determined based on multiple slots and transmitted over multiple
slots for VoIP at 2% rBLER for FR1 TDD, compared to TB is determined based on
single slot without repetition in Rel-16. HARQ is not used.
\- One source (R1-2007930) shows 2 (w/ frequency hopping) and 2.5 dB (w/o
frequency hopping) SNR gain when TBS determined based on multiple slots and
transmitted over multiple slots with gaps for eMBB at 10% iBLER, compared to
Rel-16 where repeats are scheduled over contiguous slots. HARQ is not used.
Perfect channel estimation is assumed.
Table 6.1.1-3 Performance evaluation for TB processing over multi-slot PUSCH
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source | Frequency | Performance | Key | | | | Range | gain | Assumptions | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | | | eMBB | voice | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 1 | FR1 | | 1.0 dB | DDDSUDDSUU, | | ( | | | | O2I, TBS | | R1-2008874) | | | | based on 4 | | | | | | slots | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | 0.6 dB | DDDSUDDSUU, | | | | | | O2O, TBS | | | | | | based on 4 | | | | | | slots | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 2.7 dB | | DDDSUDDSUU, | | | | | | rural, O2O, | | | | | | TBS based | | | | | | on 4 slots | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 2 | FR1 | 0.8 dB | | 2 slots | | ( | | | | a | | R1-2007905) | | | | ggregation, | | | | | | TBS based | | | | | | on 2 slots, | | | | | | DDDSU, | | | | | | rural | | | | | | TDL-D, 30ns | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 3 | FR1 | | \~0.2dB | Baseline | | ( | | | | scheme 1: 4 | | R1-2007954) | | | | PRBs in a | | | | | | slot, 14 | | | | | | symbols. | | | | | | | | | | | | TB spanning | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | slots: 1 | | | | | | PRB | | | | | | spanning 4 | | | | | | slots | | | | | | | | | | | | Link level | | | | | | simulation | | | | | | results for | | | | | | these two | | | | | | schemes are | | | | | | similar, | | | | | | but link | | | | | | budget gain | | | | | | of \~6dB | | | | | | for TB | | | | | | spanning 4 | | | | | | slots over | | | | | | baseline | | | | | | scheme can | | | | | | be | | | | | | observed. | | | | | | | | | | | | Simulation | | | | | | assumption: | | | | | | 3km/h, 4 | | | | | | GHz, TDD | | | | | | with DDDSU | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 4 | FR1 | 1-2 dB | 1-2 dB | Baseline: 1 | | ( | | | | PRB/slot. | | R1-2008626) | | | | TB sized | | | | | | per slot. | | | | | | | | | | | | Proposal: | | | | | | Aggregate | | | | | | PRBs across | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | slots. Size | | | | | | TB for | | | | | | total | | | | | | aggregated | | | | | | resources. | | | | | | | | | | | | O | | | | | | bservation: | | | | | | 2 slot | | | | | | aggregation | | | | | | results in | | | | | | \~1 dB | | | | | | gain, while | | | | | | 4 slot | | | | | | aggregation | | | | | | results in | | | | | | 2 dB gain. | | | | | | | | | | | | Additional | | | | | | gain due to | | | | | | overhead | | | | | | reduction | | | | | | is not | | | | | | included | | | | | | here. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 5 | FR1 | 0\~1.0dB | | TBS | | ( | | | | determined | | R1-2009583) | | | | based on | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | slots and | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | over | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | slots, | | | | | | | | | | | | 700MHz FDD, | | | | | | TB over 2 | | | | | | or 3 slots, | | | | | | QPSK, | | | | | | 3km/hr, | | | | | | | | | | | | Compared to | | | | | | the | | | | | | baseline, | | | | | | up to 3dB | | | | | | and 4.7dB | | | | | | power | | | | | | boosting | | | | | | gain is | | | | | | possible | | | | | | for 2 and 3 | | | | | | slot | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | scheme, | | | | | | re | | | | | | spectively. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 1.0dB | | TBS | | | | | | determined | | | | | | based on | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | slots and | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | over | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | slots, | | | | | | | | | | | | 700MHz FDD, | | | | | | TB over 3 | | | | | | slots, pi/2 | | | | | | BPSK, | | | | | | 3km/hr, | | | | | | | | | | | | Compared to | | | | | | the | | | | | | baseline, | | | | | | up to 4.7dB | | | | | | power | | | | | | boosting | | | | | | gain is | | | | | | possible | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 0.4 | | TBS | | | | 3dB\~1.75dB | | determined | | | | | | based on | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | slots and | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | over | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | slots, | | | | | | | | | | | | 4GHz, TDD, | | | | | | rural, TB | | | | | | over 2 or 5 | | | | | | slots, | | | | | | QPSK, | | | | | | 3km/hr, | | | | | | | | | | | | Compared to | | | | | | the | | | | | | baseline, | | | | | | up to 3dB | | | | | | and 6.98 dB | | | | | | power | | | | | | boosting | | | | | | gain is | | | | | | possible | | | | | | for 2 and | | | | | | 5-slot | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | scheme, | | | | | | r | | | | | | espectively | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | 2.0dB | TBS | | | | | | determined | | | | | | based on | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | slots and | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | over | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | slots, | | | | | | | | | | | | 700MHz, | | | | | | FDD, TB | | | | | | over 6 | | | | | | slots, | | | | | | QPSK, | | | | | | 3km/hr, | | | | | | | | | | | | Compared to | | | | | | the | | | | | | baseline, | | | | | | up to | | | | | | additional | | | | | | 7.7 dB | | | | | | power | | | | | | boosting | | | | | | gain is | | | | | | possible | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | 0.4dB | TBS | | | | | | determined | | | | | | based on | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | slots and | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | over | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | slots, | | | | | | | | | | | | 700MHz, | | | | | | FDD, TB | | | | | | over 10 | | | | | | slots, pi/2 | | | | | | BPSK, | | | | | | 3km/hr, | | | | | | | | | | | | Compared to | | | | | | the | | | | | | baseline, | | | | | | up to 10dB | | | | | | power | | | | | | boosting | | | | | | gain is | | | | | | possible | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 6 | FR1 | 1 dB | | Rural | | ( | | | | 700MHz, | | R1-2009792) | | | | FDD, 15kHz | | | | | | SCS, 2 DMRS | | | | | | symbols per | | | | | | slot, UE | | | | | | speed: | | | | | | 3km/h; | | | | | | Target | | | | | | throughput: | | | | | | 100kbps | | | | | | | | | | | | [Baseline | | | | | | scheme]{. | | | | | | underline}: | | | | | | 4 PRBs, TBS | | | | | | = 432 bits, | | | | | | MCS11 | | | | | | (table 3), | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | repetitions | | | | | | (type A). | | | | | | | | | | | | [Enhanced | | | | | | scheme]{. | | | | | | underline}: | | | | | | 4 PRBs, TBS | | | | | | = 432 bits, | | | | | | MCS5 (table | | | | | | 3), | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | over time | | | | | | resource of | | | | | | 4 slots, no | | | | | | repetition. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 7 | FR1 | 2.5 | | Simulation | | ( | | | | A | | R1-2007930) | | | | ssumptions: | | | | | | No FH, | | | | | | Rural, | | | | | | 30km/h, 8 | | | | | | R | | | | | | epetitions, | | | | | | 100kbps | | | | | | | | | | | | Baseline: | | | | | | Repetitions | | | | | | sent | | | | | | c | | | | | | ontiguously | | | | | | (i.e. no | | | | | | gaps) | | | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | nhancement: | | | | | | Gaps | | | | | | between | | | | | | Repeats= 7 | | | | | | slots | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 2.0 | | Simulation | | | | | | Assumption: | | | | | | With FH, | | | | | | Rural, | | | | | | 30km/h, 8 | | | | | | R | | | | | | epetitions, | | | | | | 100kbps | | | | | | | | | | | | Baseline: | | | | | | Repetitions | | | | | | sent | | | | | | c | | | | | | ontiguously | | | | | | (i.e. no | | | | | | gaps) | | | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | nhancement: | | | | | | Gaps | | | | | | between | | | | | | Repeats= 7 | | | | | | slots | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
One source (R1-2008378) evaluates the performance of symbol level repetition
and shows around 0.4 dB SNR gain for UE speed 3km/h and around 0.3dB SNR loss
for UE speed 120km/h, respectively, for eMBB at 10% iBLER for FR1, compared to
Rel-16 PUSCH repetition type A.
Table 6.1.1-4 Performance **evaluation for** symbol level repetition
+------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Source | Solutions | Performance | Key Assumptions | | | | gain | | +============+=================+=================+=================+ | R1-2008378 | Symbol-level | 0.4 dB (3km/h) | Rural, 4 GHz, | | | repetition | | DDDSUDDSUU, 3 | | | | -0.3 dB | km/h/120km/h | | | | (120km/h) | | | | | | 4PRBs, 2 | | | | | repetitions, | | | | | w/o HARQ | | | | | | | | | | Baseline: PUSCH | | | | | repetition Type | | | | | A w/o | | | | | cross-slot | | | | | channel | | | | | estimation | | | | | | | | | | 3 km/h: Type 1, | | | | | 2 DMRS symbol, | | | | | no multiplexing | | | | | with data | | | | | | | | | | 120 km/h: Type | | | | | 1, 3 DMRS | | | | | symbol, no | | | | | multiplexing | | | | | with data | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 6.1.2 Frequency-domain based solutions
Frequency domain based solutions are studied, including enhancements on inter-
slot/intra-slot frequency hopping, enhancements on frequency hopping for PUSCH
repetition type B, sub-PRB transmission for VoIP.
Enhancements on inter-slot frequency hopping were studied from several
aspects, including more frequency offsets, e.g. 4 for BWP less than 50 PRBs, 8
for BWP greater than 50 PRBs, and more frequency hopping positions, e.g. 4.
Potential specification impacts of enhancements on inter-slot frequency
hopping include: frequency domain hopping offsets/positions.
Enhancements on intra-slot frequency hopping were studied from several
aspects, including more frequency offsets, e.g. 4 for BWP less than 50 PRBs, 8
for BWP greater than 50 PRBs, more frequency hopping positions, e.g. 3, more
time-domain hop positions within a slot, e.g. 3, and DM-RS sharing among
multiple PUSCH transmissions with the same frequency position between two
consecutive slots [related to clause 6.1.3]. Potential specification impacts
of enhancements on intra-slot frequency hopping include: Frequency domain
hopping offsets, DM-RS pattern, TBS determination, power consistency and phase
continuity for DM-RS sharing among multiple PUSCH transmissions.
Sub-PRB transmission for VoIP was studied from several aspects, including
number of tones, sub-PRB transmission with single slot and sub-PRB
transmission with multi-slot aggregation. Potential specification impacts of
sub-PRB transmission with single slot include: frequency domain resource
allocation, TBS determination, DM-RS pattern, hopping pattern within/between
the PRBs, PUSCH signal generation for DFT-s-OFDM waveform, RF requirement.
Potential specification impacts of sub-PRB transmission with multi-slot
aggregation include: frequency domain resource allocation, time domain
resource allocation, TBS determination, DM-RS pattern, RV determination,
hopping pattern within/between the PRBs, PUSCH signal generation for DFT-s-
OFDM waveform, RF requirement.
Six sources (R1-2007743, R1-2007954, R1-2009729, R1-2007680, R1-2008419,
R1-2007583) evaluate the performance of inter-slot frequency hopping with more
frequency offsets/ more frequency hopping positions.
\- Five sources (R1-2007743, R1-2007954, R1-2007680, R1-2008419, R1-2007583)
show 0.3\~1.7 dB SNR gain for inter-slot frequency hopping with more frequency
offsets/ more frequency hopping positions for eMBB at 10% iBLER for FR1,
compared to Rel-16 inter frequency hopping. **Cross-slot channel estimation is
not used, 2 RX is assumed for gains higher than 0.3dB, 300ns is assumed for
gains higher than 0.3dB.**
\- One source (**R1-2009729**) shows no gain for inter-slot frequency hopping
with more frequency offsets/ more frequency hopping positions for eMBB at 10%
iBLER for FR1, compared to Rel-16 inter frequency hopping.
\- One source (R1-2008419) shows no gain for inter-slot frequency hopping with
more frequency offsets/ more frequency hopping positions and joint channel
estimation over multiple slots is implemented for eMBB at 10% iBLER for FR1,
compared to Rel-16 inter frequency hopping with joint channel estimation over
multiple slots.
Table 6.1.2-1 Performance evaluation for enhancements on **inter-slot
frequency hopping**
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source | Frequency | Performance | Key | | | | Range | gain | Assumptions | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | | | eMBB | voice | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 1 | FR1 | 0.5 dB | | 4GHz, | | ( | | | | Rural, | | R1-2007743) | | | | MCS#2, one | | | | | | DMRS per | | | | | | hop | | | | | | | | | | | | Baseline | | | | | | scheme: 2 | | | | | | FH | | | | | | positions | | | | | | | | | | | | Enhanced | | | | | | scheme: 4 | | | | | | FH | | | | | | positions | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 2 | FR1 | 0.3dB | | Rural | | ( | | | | 3km/h, | | R1-2007954) | | | | 700MHz, | | | | | | FDD, | | | | | | TBS=136 | | | | | | bits, MCS | | | | | | 0, 8 | | | | | | r | | | | | | epetitions, | | | | | | 2 DMRS | | | | | | symbols, 12 | | | | | | data | | | | | | symbols | | | | | | | | | | | | For 4 Rx | | | | | | antennas, | | | | | | \~0.3dB | | | | | | performance | | | | | | gain can be | | | | | | achieved | | | | | | for 4 | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | hops | | | | | | compared to | | | | | | 2 frequency | | | | | | hops. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 1.5dB | | Same | | | | | | simulation | | | | | | assumptions | | | | | | as above. | | | | | | | | | | | | For 2 Rx | | | | | | antennas, | | | | | | \~1.5dB | | | | | | performance | | | | | | gain can be | | | | | | achieved | | | | | | for 4 | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | hops | | | | | | compared to | | | | | | 2 frequency | | | | | | hops. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 3 | FR1 | 0 dB | | Scenario: | | (**R1 | | | | Urban 4GHz | | -2009729**) | | | | with 64 | | | | | | TXRUs. | | | | | | | | | | | | Baseline: 4 | | | | | | repetitions | | | | | | with 2 | | | | | | inter-slot | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | hops. | | | | | | | | | | | | Comparison: | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | repetitions | | | | | | with 4 | | | | | | inter-slot | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | hops. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 4 | FR1 | 1dB | | More | | ( | | | | frequency | | R1-2007680) | | | | hopping | | | | | | locations, | | | | | | no offsets, | | | | | | from 2 hops | | | | | | to 4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 5 | FR1 | 1.3 dB | | [4 hops vs. | | ( | | (LLS) | | 2 hops, no | | R1-2008419) | | | | cross-slot | | | | | | est.]{ | | | | | | .underline} | | | | | | | | | | | | 1% BLER | | | | | | | | | | | | For [300ns | | | | | | delay | | | | | | spread]{. | | | | | | underline}, | | | | | | 3kmph, 2 | | | | | | Rx, 2 DMRS | | | | | | | | | | | | 4 PRBs, | | | | | | MCS0, 700 | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | repetitions | | | | | | (no | | | | | | retra | | | | | | nsmissions) | | | | | | | | | | | | Details in | | | | | | R1-2008419 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 0.3 dB | | [4 hops vs. | | | | (LLS) | | 2 hops, no | | | | | | cross-slot | | | | | | est.]{ | | | | | | .underline} | | | | | | | | | | | | 1% BLER | | | | | | | | | | | | For [30ns | | | | | | delay | | | | | | spread]{. | | | | | | underline}, | | | | | | 3kmph, 2 | | | | | | Rx, 2 DMRS | | | | | | | | | | | | 4 PRBs, | | | | | | MCS0, 700 | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | repetitions | | | | | | (no | | | | | | retra | | | | | | nsmissions) | | | | | | | | | | | | Details in | | | | | | R1-2008419 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 0 dB (LLS) | | [4 hops vs. | | | | | | 2 hops, | | | | | | with | | | | | | cross-slot | | | | | | est.]{ | | | | | | .underline} | | | | | | | | | | | | 1% BLER | | | | | | | | | | | | For [30ns | | | | | | delay | | | | | | spread]{. | | | | | | underline}, | | | | | | 3kmph, 2 | | | | | | Rx, 2 DMRS | | | | | | | | | | | | 4 PRBs, | | | | | | MCS0, 700 | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | repetitions | | | | | | (no | | | | | | retra | | | | | | nsmissions) | | | | | | | | | | | | Details in | | | | | | R1-2008419 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 6 | FR1 | 1 dB | | Simulation | | ( | | | | a | | R1-2007930) | | | | ssumptions: | | | | | | Rural | | | | | | 3km/h, | | | | | | 700MHz, | | | | | | FDD, TBS = | | | | | | 456, | | | | | | Repeats = | | | | | | 4,100kbps, | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | DMRS/slot, | | | | | | 2 Rx | | | | | | Antennas | | | | | | | | | | | | Baseline: | | | | | | no FH | | | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | nhancement: | | | | | | 2 FH | | | | | | positions | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 7 | FR1 | 1.7dB | | Baseline | | ( | | | | scheme: no | | R1-2007583) | | | | FH | | | | | | positions | | | | | | | | | | | | Enhanced | | | | | | scheme: 2 | | | | | | FH | | | | | | positions | | | | | | | | | | | | 30RB, MCS3, | | | | | | 300ns, | | | | | | 4GHz, 1T4R | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 0.8dB | | Baseline | | | | | | scheme: 2 | | | | | | FH | | | | | | positions | | | | | | | | | | | | Enhanced | | | | | | scheme: 4 | | | | | | FH | | | | | | positions | | | | | | | | | | | | 30RB, MCS3, | | | | | | 300ns, | | | | | | 4GHz, 1T4R | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | 0.75 | Compared | | | | | | with 3 | | | | | | retr | | | | | | ansmissions | | | | | | combined | | | | | | with 4 | | | | | | actual | | | | | | repetitions | | | | | | for VoIP, | | | | | | 0.75 dB | | | | | | gain is | | | | | | obtained | | | | | | with inter | | | | | | slot | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | hopping at | | | | | | Urban | | | | | | scenario | | | | | | \@4GHz | | | | | | DDDSUDDSUU. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Four sources (R1-2008874, R1-2009647, R1-2007680, R1-2007930) evaluate the
performance of sub-PRB transmission with multi-slot aggregation.
\- One source (R1-2008874) shows around 0.8 dB link budget gain for sub-PRB
transmission with multi-slot aggregation (6 tones) for VoIP at 2% rBLER for
FR1, compared to Rel-16 PRB-based transmission with repetition. HARQ is not
used. Different redundancy version {0, 2, 3, 1} is used for Rel-16 PRB-based
transmission with repetition.
\- One source (R1-2009647) shows around 5.6 dB link budget gain for sub-PRB
transmission with multi-slot aggregation (6 tones) for VoIP at 2% rBLER for
FR1, compared to Rel-16 PRB-based transmission with 4 PRBs without repetition.
HARQ is not used.
\- One source (R1-2009647) shows around 1.6 and 8.5 dB link budget gain for
sub-PRB transmission with multi-slot aggregation (6 tones) for eMBB at 10%
iBELR for FR1, respectively, depending on the number of aggregation slots,
compared to Rel-16 PRB-based transmission with 1 PRB and 4 PRBs, respectively
without repetition. HARQ is not used.
\- One source (R1-2007930) evaluated the performance of sub-PRB transmission
with 2 tones which showed 7 dB PAPR reduction. This PAPR reduction allows for
MPR relaxation for VoIP use case at 2% rBLER for FR1, compared to Rel-16 PRB-
based transmission with DFT-s-OFDM.
\- One source (R1-2007680) shows no gain for sub-PRB transmission with multi-
slot aggregation (6 tones) for VoIP at 2% rBLER for FR1, compared to Rel-16
PRB-based transmission with repetition. HARQ is not used.
Table 6.1.2-2 Performance evaluation for **sub-PRB transmission**
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source | Frequency | Performance | Key | | | | Range | gain | Assumptions | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | | | eMBB | voice | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 1 | FR1 | | 0.8 dB | DDDSUDDSUU, | | ( | | | | O2O, half | | R1-2008874) | | | | PRB and 8 | | | | | | slots | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 2 | FR1 | | 5.6 dB | DDDSUDDSUU, | | ( | | | | TBS=80 per | | R1-2009647) | | | | 5ms, 2.7 | | | | | | times | | | | | | smaller T-F | | | | | | resource | | | | | | for subPRB | | | | | | ( | | | | | | 4PRB*1slot | | | | | | vs | | | | | | 0.5PR | | | | | | B*3slots), | | | | | | TDL-A, | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | spread: | | | | | | 30ns, | | | | | | SCS=30KHz, | | | | | | 4Ghz | | | | | | | | | | | | Note: | | | | | | Required | | | | | | SNR: rel-16 | | | | | | is better | | | | | | with 3.4dB; | | | | | | | | | | | | Occupied BW | | | | | | (thus noise | | | | | | power): | | | | | | sub-PRB is | | | | | | better as | | | | | | 9dB; | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 8.5dB | | TBS=50 (per | | | | | | tra | | | | | | nsmission), | | | | | | TDL-C, | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | spread: | | | | | | 300ns, Same | | | | | | T-F | | | | | | resource | | | | | | ( | | | | | | 4PRB*1slot | | | | | | vs | | | | | | 0.5PR | | | | | | B*8slots), | | | | | | SCS=30KHz, | | | | | | 4Ghz | | | | | | | | | | | | Note: | | | | | | Required | | | | | | SNR: rel-16 | | | | | | is better | | | | | | with 0.5dB; | | | | | | | | | | | | Occupied BW | | | | | | (thus noise | | | | | | power): | | | | | | sub-PRB is | | | | | | better as | | | | | | 9dB; | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 1.6dB | | TBS=50 (per | | | | | | tra | | | | | | nsmission), | | | | | | TDL-A, | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | spread: | | | | | | 30ns, Same | | | | | | T-F | | | | | | resource | | | | | | ( | | | | | | 1PRB*1slot | | | | | | vs | | | | | | 0.5PR | | | | | | B*2slots), | | | | | | SCS=30KHz, | | | | | | 4Ghz | | | | | | | | | | | | Note: | | | | | | Required | | | | | | SNR: rel-16 | | | | | | is better | | | | | | with 1.4dB; | | | | | | | | | | | | Occupied BW | | | | | | (thus noise | | | | | | power): | | | | | | sub-PRB is | | | | | | better as | | | | | | 3dB; | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 3 | FR1 | | 0dB | Sub-PRB | | ( | | | | with the | | R1-2007680) | | | | whole TB | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | over 2 | | | | | | slots | | | | | | compared to | | | | | | repetition | | | | | | type A with | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | repetitions | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 4 | FR1 | | 0\~5 dB | No MCL | | ( | | | | gain. Gain | | R1-2007930) | | | | comes from | | | | | | reduction | | | | | | in MPR and | | | | | | A-MPR due | | | | | | to | | | | | | reduction | | | | | | in PAPR/CM. | | | | | | | | | | | | 2 tone Pi/2 | | | | | | BPSK (i.e. | | | | | | LTE-M | | | | | | sub-PRB | | | | | | solution | | | | | | with near | | | | | | zero PAPR) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
One source (R1-2008874) evaluates the performance of enhanced intra-slot
frequency hopping with more frequency offsets/ more frequency hopping
positions and shows around 1.8 dB SNR gain for VoIP at 2% rBLER and 0.4 dB SNR
gain for eMBB at 2% rBLER for FR1, compared to Rel-16 intra-slot frequency
hopping.
Table 6.1.2-3 **Performance evaluation for** enhanced intra-slot frequency
hopping
Source Solutions Performance gain Key Assumptions
* * *
                                                       eMBB               voice
R1-2008874 Enhanced intra-slot frequency hopping 1.8 dB DDDSUDDSUU, O2O 0.4 dB
DDDSUDDSUU, rural O2I
### 6.1.3 DM-RS enhancements
DM-RS enhancements are studied, including joint channel estimation or DM-RS
bundling, enhancements on DM-RS density, adaptive configuration, and DM-RS
balancing among frequency hops.
Joint channel estimation or DM-RS bundling with/without optimization of DMRS
location/granularity was studied from several aspects, including cross-slot
channel estimation over consecutive slots, cross-slot channel estimation over
non-consecutive slots, cross-repetition channel estimation within one slot,
and inter-slot frequency hopping with inter-slot bundling to enable cross-slot
channel estimation. Potential specification impacts of joint channel
estimation or DM-RS bundling include: power consistency and phase continuity,
DM-RS placement in special slot and DM-RS configuration, Time domain hopping
interval for inter-slot frequency hopping with inter-slot bundling.
Enhancements on DM-RS density were studied from several aspects, including
lower DM-RS density in time domain, DM-RS sharing among multiple PUSCH
transmissions in the time domain, lower DMRS density in frequency domain,
1-comb DM-RS, e.g., DM-RS with single port spans to occupy the whole DM-RS
symbol, and additional DM-RS symbol position in a slot. Potential
specification impacts of lower DM-RS density in time domain, and DM-RS sharing
among multiple PUSCH transmissions include: DM-RS pattern and configuration,
power consistency, phase continuity, and TBS determination. Potential
specification impacts of lower DMRS density in the frequency domain include:
DM-RS design, DM-RS pattern and configuration. Potential specification impacts
of 1-comb DM-RS include: DM-RS design, and TBS determination. Potential
specification impacts of additional DM-RS symbol position in a slot include:
DM-RS position.
Adaptive DM-RS configuration was studied. Potential specification impacts
include: related signaling design.
DM-RS balancing among frequency hops was studied. Potential specification
impacts include: related signaling design, DMRS configuration and pattern.
Fifteen sources (R1-2008874, R1-2007743, R1-2007954, R1-2008626, R1-2008399,
R1-2008378, R1-2008559, R1-2009647, R1-2008026, R1-2007680, R1-2008419,
R1-2009792, R1-2008479, R1-2009583, R1-2007583) evaluate the performance of
joint channel estimation.
\- Eleven sources (R1-2008874, R1-2007743, R1-2008626, R1-2008399, R1-2008378,
R1-2008026, R1-2007680, R1-2008419, R1-2009792, R1-2008479, R1-2007583) show
0.2\~2.1 dB SNR gain for joint channel estimation over multiple slots for eMBB
at 10% iBLER depending on the number of slots for FR1, compared to Rel-16
PUSCH transmission without joint channel estimation.
\- One source (R1-2007954) shows 2 dB SNR gain for joint channel estimation
over multiple non-consecutive slots with inter-slot frequency hopping for eMBB
at 10% iBLER, compared to Rel-16 inter-slot frequency hopping without joint
channel estimation.
\- Three sources (R1-2009647, R1-2008559) show 0.9\~1.3 dB SNR gain for joint
channel estimation over multiple slots for VoIP at 2% rBLER depending on the
number of slots for FR1, compared to Rel-16 PUSCH transmission without joint
channel estimation.
\- One source (R1-2009583) shows 0.3 dB SNR gain for joint channel estimation
over multiple slots with DMRS in a special slot for VoIP at 2% rBLER, compared
to Rel-16 PUSCH transmission without joint channel estimation.
\- One source shows (R1-2009647) 0.85\~1.1 dB SNR gain for joint channel
estimation over multiple slots for VoIP at 2% rBLER depending on the number of
slots for FR2, compared to Rel-16 PUSCH transmission without joint channel
estimation.
\- One source (R1-2007680) shows 0.8 dB SNR gain for joint channel estimation
over multiple repetition within a slot, compared to Rel-16 PUSCH transmission
without joint channel estimation.
\- Two sources (R1-2008026, R1-2007680) show 1.0\~1.22 dB required SNR gain
for lower DM-RS density in time domain with joint channel estimation and using
multi-slot PUSCH with 4 symbols in the special slot over multiple slots for
eMBB at 10% iBLER for FR1, compared to Rel-16 DM-RS density without joint
channel estimation.
\- One source (R1-2007680) shows 1.0 dB required SNR gain for lower DM-RS
density in time domain with joint channel estimation over multiple repetition
within a slot for eMBB at 10% iBLER for FR1, compared to Rel-16 PUSCH
transmission without joint channel estimation.
Table 6.1.3-1 Performance evaluation for j**oint channel estimation**
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source | Frequency | Performance | Key | | | | Range | gain | Assumptions | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | | | eMBB | voice | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 1 | FR1 | 0.4 dB | | DDDSUDDSUU, | | ( | | | | rural O2I, | | R1-2008874) | | | | 2 slots | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 0.8 dB | | FDD, rural | | | | | | O2I, 2 | | | | | | slots | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 2 | FR1 | 1.8 dB | | 4GHz, | | ( | | | | MCS#5, one | | R1-2007743) | | | | DMRS per | | | | | | repetition, | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | r | | | | | | epetitions, | | | | | | No FH. | | | | | | | | | | | | Baseline | | | | | | scheme: No | | | | | | cross-slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation | | | | | | | | | | | | Enhanced | | | | | | scheme: | | | | | | Cross-slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 3 | FR1 | \~2.0dB | | Rural | | ( | | | | 3km/h, | | R1-2007954) | | | | 700MHz, | | | | | | FDD, | | | | | | TBS=136 | | | | | | bits, MCS | | | | | | 0, 8 | | | | | | r | | | | | | epetitions, | | | | | | 2 DMRS | | | | | | symbols, 12 | | | | | | data | | | | | | symbols. | | | | | | Cross-slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation | | | | | | is employed | | | | | | with a | | | | | | fixed | | | | | | window size | | | | | | of 4 slots | | | | | | | | | | | | For Rel-15 | | | | | | inter-slot | | | | | | FH, | | | | | | cross-slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation | | | | | | can provide | | | | | | \~2dB | | | | | | performance | | | | | | gain | | | | | | compared to | | | | | | the case | | | | | | without | | | | | | cross-slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 4 | FR1 | 1-2 dB | | Baseline: | | ( | | | | PUSCH 1RB | | R1-2008626) | | | | allocation, | | | | | | 4 reps. | | | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | nhancement: | | | | | | PUSCH 1 RB | | | | | | allocation, | | | | | | 0/2/4 reps, | | | | | | with | | | | | | cross-slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 5 | FR1 | 1.5 dB | | Baseline: | | ( | | | | PUCCH, 1 RB | | R1-2008399) | | | | allocation, | | | | | | repetition | | | | | | with 4 | | | | | | slots in | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | nhancement: | | | | | | PUCCH, 1 RB | | | | | | allocation, | | | | | | repetition | | | | | | with 4 | | | | | | slots in | | | | | | FDD, | | | | | | cross-slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation | | | | | | with 4 | | | | | | slots | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 6 | FR1 | 1.0 dB | | Rural, 4 | | ( | | | | GHz, | | R1-2008378) | | | | DDDSUDDSUU, | | | | | | 3 km/h | | | | | | | | | | | | 4PRBs, 2 | | | | | | r | | | | | | epetitions, | | | | | | w/o HARQ | | | | | | | | | | | | Baseline: | | | | | | w/o | | | | | | cross-slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation | | | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | nhancement: | | | | | | w/ | | | | | | cross-slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 7 | FR1 | | 1 dB | Number of | | ( | | | | repetition | | R1-2008559) | | | | is 2 for | | | | | | consecutive | | | | | | 2 UL slots | | | | | | assuming | | | | | | DDDSUDDSUU | | | | | | for FR1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 8 | FR1 | | 1.3 dB | DDDSUDDSUU, | | ( | | | | 4GHz with | | R1-2009647) | | | | O2I, 4PRB, | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | spread: 300 | | | | | | ns, Max # | | | | | | of HARQ tx: | | | | | | 4, Latency: | | | | | | 50 ms, 1 | | | | | | DMRS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | FR1 | | 0.9 dB | DDDSUDDSUU, | | | | | | 4GHz with | | | | | | O2I, 4PRB, | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | spread: 300 | | | | | | ns, Max # | | | | | | of HARQ tx: | | | | | | 4, Latency: | | | | | | 50 ms, 2 | | | | | | DMRS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | FR2 | | 1.1 dB | DDDSUDDDSU, | | | | | | 28GHz with | | | | | | O2I, 4PRB, | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | spread: 100 | | | | | | ns, Max # | | | | | | of HARQ tx: | | | | | | 16, | | | | | | Latency: 50 | | | | | | ms, 1 DMRS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | FR2 | | 0.85 dB | DDDSUDDDSU, | | | | | | 28GHz with | | | | | | O2I, 4PRB, | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | spread: 100 | | | | | | ns, Max # | | | | | | of HARQ tx: | | | | | | 16, | | | | | | Latency: 50 | | | | | | ms, 2 DMRS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 9 | FR1 | 0.4dB | | Urban O2I | | ( | | | | | | R1-2008026) | | | | 2.6GHz | | | | | | 7D1S2U | | | | | | (6D:4S:4U | | | | | | for the | | | | | | Special | | | | | | slot) | | | | | | | | | | | | Baseline：2 | | | | | | uplink slot | | | | | | without | | | | | | cross slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation, | | | | | | no FH | | | | | | | | | | | | Enh | | | | | | ancement：2 | | | | | | uplink slot | | | | | | with cross | | | | | | slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation, | | | | | | no FH | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | FR1 | 1.22 dB | | Urban O2I | | | | | | | | | | | | 2.6GHz | | | | | | 7D1S2U | | | | | | (6D:4S:4U | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | | | Special | | | | | | slot) | | | | | | | | | | | | Baseline : | | | | | | MCS #4 2 | | | | | | uplink slot | | | | | | without | | | | | | cross slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation, | | | | | | 2 DMRS | | | | | | symbol per | | | | | | slot | | | | | | | | | | | | Enhancement | | | | | | : MCS #3, | | | | | | 4 symbol in | | | | | | special | | | | | | slot+ 2 | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | slot, with | | | | | | single DMRS | | | | | | symbol per | | | | | | slo | | | | | | t(including | | | | | | the special | | | | | | slot), with | | | | | | cross slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 10 | FR1 | 0.8dB | | 4 | | ( | | | | repetitions | | R1-2007680) | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | in one slot | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 0.3dB | | 4 | | | | | | repetitions | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | among 4 | | | | | | slots | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 1dB | | DMRS-less | | | | | | in time | | | | | | domain with | | | | | | joint | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation | | | | | | for 4 | | | | | | repetitions | | | | | | within one | | | | | | slot. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 1dB | | DMRS-less | | | | | | in time | | | | | | domain with | | | | | | joint | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation | | | | | | for 4 | | | | | | repetitions | | | | | | across 4 | | | | | | slots. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 11 | FR1 | 1.1 dB | | [With vs. | | ( | | (LLS) | | without | | R1-2008419) | | | | cross-slot | | | | | | est]{.u | | | | | | nderline}., | | | | | | no FH | | | | | | | | | | | | 4 DMRS | | | | | | | | | | | | 1% BLER | | | | | | | | | | | | For 300ns | | | | | | delay | | | | | | spread, | | | | | | 3kmph, 2 Rx | | | | | | | | | | | | 4 PRBs, | | | | | | MCS0, 700 | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | repetitions | | | | | | (no | | | | | | retra | | | | | | nsmissions) | | | | | | | | | | | | Details in | | | | | | R1-2008419 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 12 | FR1 | 0.4 dB | | Urban 4GHz | | ( | | | | NLOS, 2DMRS | | R1-2009792) | | | | symbols per | | | | | | slot, UE | | | | | | speed: | | | | | | 3km/h | | | | | | | | | | | | [Baseline | | | | | | scheme]{. | | | | | | underline}: | | | | | | no | | | | | | cross-slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation. | | | | | | | | | | | | [Enhanced | | | | | | scheme]{. | | | | | | underline}: | | | | | | cross-slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation | | | | | | with 2-slot | | | | | | bundling. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 13 | FR1 | 0.2dB | | FDD 700MHz | | ( | | | | M | | R1-2008479) | | | | CS=120/1024 | | | | | | 4PRB, No | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | hopping, | | | | | | **1DMRS** | | | | | | symbol, | | | | | | 3km/h | | | | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | repetitions | | | | | | with or | | | | | | without | | | | | | cross slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 0.4dB | | FDD 700MHz | | | | | | M | | | | | | CS=120/1024 | | | | | | 4PRB, No | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | hopping, | | | | | | **1DMRS** | | | | | | symbol, | | | | | | 3km/h | | | | | | | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | repetitions | | | | | | with or | | | | | | without | | | | | | cross slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 0.6dB | | FDD 700MHz | | | | | | M | | | | | | CS=120/1024 | | | | | | 4PRB, No | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | hopping, | | | | | | **1DMRS** | | | | | | symbol, | | | | | | 3km/h | | | | | | | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | repetitions | | | | | | with or | | | | | | without | | | | | | cross slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 0.6dB | | FDD 700MHz | | | | | | M | | | | | | CS=120/1024 | | | | | | 4PRB, No | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | hopping, | | | | | | **2 DMRS** | | | | | | symbol, | | | | | | 3km/h | | | | | | | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | repetitions | | | | | | with or | | | | | | without | | | | | | cross slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 1dB | | FDD 700MHz | | | | | | M | | | | | | CS=120/1024 | | | | | | 4PRB, No | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | hopping, | | | | | | **2 DMRS** | | | | | | symbol, | | | | | | 3km/h | | | | | | | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | repetitions | | | | | | with or | | | | | | without | | | | | | cross slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 14 | FR1 | | 0.3dB | 4GHz TDD | | ( | | | | Rural, 4 | | R1-2009583) | | | | PRBs, | | | | | | DDDSU, | | | | | | 120km/hr, | | | | | | VoIP | | | | | | | | | | | | Baseline : | | | | | | QPSK, 2 | | | | | | DMRS in | | | | | | uplink slot | | | | | | | | | | | | Enhancement | | | | | | : 2 DMRS in | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | slot, 1 | | | | | | DMRS in | | | | | | special | | | | | | slot, | | | | | | cross-slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation | | | | | | assisted by | | | | | | DMRS in | | | | | | special | | | | | | slot | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 15 | FR1 | 1.4dB | | Compared | | ( | | | | with single | | R1-2007583) | | 2.1dB | | slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation, | | | | | | 1.4dB and | | | | | | 2.1 dB SNR | | | | | | gain can be | | | | | | obtained by | | | | | | 2 and 3 | | | | | | consecutive | | | | | | slots joint | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation | | | | | | at 10% | | | | | | BLER. Other | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | settings: | | | | | | | | | | | | 1T 64R, | | | | | | TDL-C, 3 | | | | | | km/h, | | | | | | 300ns, Type | | | | | | I, | | | | | | ma | | | | | | x-length=1, | | | | | | 1 DMRS | | | | | | symbol per | | | | | | slot | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Five sources (R1-2008874, R1-2007743, R1-2007954, R1-2009647, R1-2008419)
evaluate the performance of inter-slot frequency hopping with inter-slot
bundling and joint channel estimation.
\- Two sources (R1-2008874, R1-2009647) show 0.5\~2.5 dB SNR gain for inter-
slot frequency hopping with inter-slot bundling for VoIP at 2% rBLER depending
on bundle size, DM-RS configurations for FR1, compared to Rel-16 inter-slot
frequency hopping.
\- One source (R1-2009647) shows 1.0\~1.55 dB SNR gain for inter-slot
frequency hopping with inter-slot bundling for VoIP at 2% rBLER depending on
bundle size, DM-RS configurations for FR2, compared to Rel-16 inter-slot
frequency hopping.
\- Three sources (R1-2007743, R1-2007954, R1-2008419) show 0.5\~3 dB SNR gain
for inter-slot frequency hopping with inter-slot bundling for eMBB at 10%
iBLER depending on bundle size for FR1, compared to Rel-16 inter-slot
frequency hopping.
\- One source (R1-2007954) shows 1 dB SNR gain for inter-slot frequency
hopping with inter-slot bundling and joint channel estimation over multiple
slot for eMBB at 10% iBLER for FR1, compared to Rel-16 inter-slot frequency
hopping with joint channel estimation over multiple non-consecutive slots.
Table 6.1.3-2 Performance evaluation for **inter-slot frequency hopping with
inter-slot bundling**
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source | Frequency | Performance | Key | | | | Range | gain | Assumptions | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | | | eMBB | voice | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 1 | FR1 | | 0.5 dB | FDD, O2I, 2 | | ( | | | | slots | | R1-2008874) | | | | bundling | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 2 | FR1 | 0.5 dB | | 4GHz, | | ( | | | | Urban, | | R1-2007743) | | | | MCS#3, one | | | | | | DMRS per | | | | | | hop. | | | | | | | | | | | | Baseline | | | | | | scheme: | | | | | | Inter-slot | | | | | | FH | | | | | | | | | | | | Enhanced | | | | | | scheme: FH | | | | | | per two | | | | | | repetitions | | | | | | and | | | | | | cross-slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation | | | | | | among two | | | | | | repetitions | | | | | | per hop. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 3 | FR1 | \~1.0dB | | Rural | | ( | | | | 3km/h, | | R1-2007954) | | | | 700MHz, | | | | | | FDD, | | | | | | TBS=136 | | | | | | bits, MCS | | | | | | 0, 8 | | | | | | r | | | | | | epetitions, | | | | | | 2 DMRS | | | | | | symbols, 12 | | | | | | data | | | | | | symbols | | | | | | | | | | | | Enhanced | | | | | | inter-slot | | | | | | FH pattern: | | | | | | same | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | resource in | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | consecutive | | | | | | slots. | | | | | | Cross-slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation | | | | | | is employed | | | | | | with a | | | | | | fixed | | | | | | window size | | | | | | of 4 slots | | | | | | for both | | | | | | Rel-15 | | | | | | inter-slot | | | | | | FH and | | | | | | enhanced | | | | | | inter-slot | | | | | | FH. When | | | | | | employing | | | | | | cross-slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation, | | | | | | \~1.0dB | | | | | | performance | | | | | | gain can be | | | | | | achieved by | | | | | | enhanced | | | | | | inter-slot | | | | | | FH pattern, | | | | | | compared to | | | | | | Rel-15 | | | | | | inter-slot | | | | | | FH. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | \~3.0dB | | Same | | | | | | simulation | | | | | | assumptions | | | | | | as above. | | | | | | Enhanced | | | | | | inter-slot | | | | | | FH pattern: | | | | | | same | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | resource in | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | consecutive | | | | | | slots. | | | | | | | | | | | | Compared to | | | | | | Rel-15 | | | | | | inter-slot | | | | | | FH without | | | | | | cross-slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation, | | | | | | \~3dB can | | | | | | be achieved | | | | | | by enhanced | | | | | | inter-slot | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | hopping | | | | | | with | | | | | | cross-slot | | | | | | channel | | | | | | estimation | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 4 | FR1 | | 2.5 dB | Residual | | ( | | | | BLER | | R1-2009647) | | | | | | | | | | DDDSUDDSUU, | | | | | | 4GHz with | | | | | | O2I, 4PRB, | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | spread: 300 | | | | | | ns, Max # | | | | | | of HARQ tx: | | | | | | 4, Latency: | | | | | | 50 ms, | | | | | | Frequency | | | | | | hopping | | | | | | offset: | | | | | | 40RBs, 1 | | | | | | DMRS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | FR1 | | 2.1 dB | Residual | | | | | | BLER | | | | | | | | | | | | DDDSUDDSUU, | | | | | | 4GHz with | | | | | | O2I, 4PRB, | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | spread: 300 | | | | | | ns, Max # | | | | | | of HARQ tx: | | | | | | 4, Latency: | | | | | | 50 ms, | | | | | | Frequency | | | | | | hopping | | | | | | offset: | | | | | | 40RBs, 2 | | | | | | DMRS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | FR2 | | 1.55 dB | Residual | | | | | | BLER | | | | | | | | | | | | DDDSUDDDSU, | | | | | | 28GHz with | | | | | | O2I, 4PRB, | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | spread: 100 | | | | | | ns, Max # | | | | | | of HARQ tx: | | | | | | 16, | | | | | | Latency: 50 | | | | | | ms, | | | | | | Frequency | | | | | | hopping | | | | | | offset: | | | | | | 40RBs, 1 | | | | | | DMRS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | FR2 | | 1 dB | Residual | | | | | | BLER | | | | | | | | | | | | DDDSUDDDSU, | | | | | | 28GHz with | | | | | | O2I, 4PRB, | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | spread: 100 | | | | | | ns, Max # | | | | | | of HARQ tx: | | | | | | 16, | | | | | | Latency: 50 | | | | | | ms, | | | | | | Frequency | | | | | | hopping | | | | | | offset: | | | | | | 40RBs, 2 | | | | | | DMRS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 5 | FR1 | 1.3 dB | | [With vs. | | ( | | (LLS) | | without | | R1-2008419) | | | | cross-slot | | | | | | est]{. | | | | | | underline}. | | | | | | | | | | | | With | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | hopping (2 | | | | | | hops) | | | | | | | | | | | | 1% BLER | | | | | | | | | | | | For 30ns | | | | | | delay | | | | | | spread, | | | | | | 3kmph, 2 | | | | | | Rx, 2 DMRS | | | | | | | | | | | | 4 PRBs, | | | | | | MCS0, 700 | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | repetitions | | | | | | (no | | | | | | retra | | | | | | nsmissions) | | | | | | | | | | | | Details in | | | | | | R1-2008419 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Two sources (R1-2007743, R1-2007954) evaluate the performance of lower DM-RS
density.
\- One source (R1-2007743) shows around 1.0 dB SNR gain for lower DM-RS
density in frequency domain for eMBB at 10% iBLER for FR1, compared to Rel-16
DM-RS density. The results is based on the assumption with only 1 RX antenna,
single front-loaded DMRS symbol and without frequency hopping.
\- One source (R1-2007954) shows around 0.2 dB SNR loss for lower DM-RS
density in time domain for eMBB at 10% iBLER for FR1, compared to Rel-16 DM-RS
density.
Table 6.1.3-3 Performance evaluation for **lower DMRS density**
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source | Frequency | Performance | Key | | | | Range | gain | Assumptions | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | | | eMBB | voice | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 1 | FR1 | 1 dB | | 2GHz, | | ( | | | | 14-symbol | | R1-2007743) | | | | PUSCH, one | | | | | | DMRS, DMRS | | | | | | type 1, one | | | | | | port | | | | | | tr | | | | | | ansmission. | | | | | | | | | | | | Baseline | | | | | | scheme: | | | | | | DMRS type | | | | | | 1, one port | | | | | | tr | | | | | | ansmission, | | | | | | 3 dB power | | | | | | boosting on | | | | | | DMRS RE | | | | | | compared to | | | | | | data RE. | | | | | | | | | | | | Enhanced | | | | | | scheme: | | | | | | Only | | | | | | mapping | | | | | | DMRS type 1 | | | | | | on even | | | | | | PRBs, 6 dB | | | | | | power | | | | | | boosting on | | | | | | DMRS RE | | | | | | compared to | | | | | | data RE. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 2 | FR1 | -0.2dB | | Baseline | | ( | | | | scheme: 2 | | R1-2007954) | | | | DMRS | | | | | | symbols in | | | | | | each slot | | | | | | | | | | | | Lower DMRS | | | | | | density | | | | | | scheme: 2 | | | | | | DMRS | | | | | | symbols in | | | | | | even slots | | | | | | and no DMRS | | | | | | in odd | | | | | | slots | | | | | | | | | | | | Rural | | | | | | 3km/h, | | | | | | 700MHz, | | | | | | FDD, | | | | | | TBS=136 | | | | | | bits, MCS | | | | | | 0, 8 | | | | | | r | | | | | | epetitions, | | | | | | 2 DMRS | | | | | | symbols, 12 | | | | | | data | | | | | | symbols | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Three sources (R1-2008874, R1-2007954, R1-2008559) evaluate the performance of
higher DM-RS density.
\- One source (R1-2008874) shows 0.5\~1.5 dB SNR gain for 1-comb DM-RS for
eMBB at 10% iBLER for FR1, compared to Rel-16 DM-RS density without power
boosting.
\- One source (R1-2008559) shows around 1.0 dB SNR gain for additional DM-RS
symbol position for VoIP at 2% rBLER for FR1, compared to Rel-16 DM-RS density
with only single DMRS symbol.
\- One source (R1-2007954) shows around 0.05 dB SNR loss for higher DM-RS
density in time domain for eMBB 10% iBLER for FR1, compared to Rel-16 DM-RS
density.
Table 6.1.3-4 Performance evaluation for **higher DMRS density**
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source | Frequency | Performance | Key | | | | Range | gain | Assumptions | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | | | eMBB | voice | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 1 | FR1 | 0.5 dB | | DDDSUDDSUU, | | ( | | | | urban O2I, | | R1-2008874) | | | | 1-comb | | | | | | DM-RS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 1.5 dB | | DDDSUDDSUU, | | | | | | rural O2O, | | | | | | 1-comb | | | | | | DM-RS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 2 | FR1 | -0.05dB | | Baseline | | ( | | | | scheme: 4 | | R1-2007954) | | | | DMRS | | | | | | symbols in | | | | | | each slot | | | | | | | | | | | | Higher DMRS | | | | | | density: 5 | | | | | | or 6 DMRS | | | | | | symbols in | | | | | | each slot | | | | | | | | | | | | Rural | | | | | | 3km/h, | | | | | | 700MHz, | | | | | | FDD, | | | | | | TBS=136 | | | | | | bits, MCS | | | | | | 0, 8 | | | | | | tra | | | | | | nsmissions, | | | | | | 2 DMRS | | | | | | symbols, 12 | | | | | | data | | | | | | symbols. | | | | | | Inter-slot | | | | | | FH | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 3 | FR1 | | 1 dB | Symbol | | ( | | | | duration 1 | | R1-2008559) | | | | or 2 | | | | | | | | | | | | Additional | | | | | | DMRS symbol | | | | | | position : | | | | | | pos3 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
One source (R1-2008626) evaluates the performance of adaptive DM-RS
configuration and shows 1.7 dB SNR gain for eMBB at 10% iBLER for FR1,
compared to Rel-16 semi-static DM-RS configuration. For low SNR such as -10 to
-12 dB, it shows that adaptive DM-RS configuration can bring 10-100% increase
in throughput compared to an ill-suited DMRS configuration depending on
factors such as UE speed, DMRS bundling, and PUSCH repetition.
Table 6.1.3-5 Performance evaluation for **adaptive DMRS configuration**
Source Frequency Range Performance gain Key Assumptions
* * *
                                 eMBB               voice
R1-2008626 FR1 1.7 dB PUSCH with 14 symbol allocation. 1 Tx, 4 Rx. Channel:
TDL-C 300ns, 3 kmph. Performance gap between optimal DMRS and suboptimal DMRS
choice is reported as gain.
### 6.1.4 Power-domain based solutions
Power domain based solutions are studied, including waveform design to
optimize MPR/A-MPR, FDD high power UE, and power boosting for pi/2 BPSK.
UE transmit waveform design to reduce MPR was studied from several aspects,
including tone reservation, FDSS (Frequency Domain Spectral Shaping) without
spectral extension for pi/2 BPSK, and FDSS with and without spectral extension
for QPSK. Potential specification impacts include: related signalling, design
for spectral extension, RF requirements. Note: For tone reservation, a
fraction of tones allocated to a UE are reserved for the UE to shape its
waveform; no data is transmitted on these tones.
Power boosting for pi/2 BPSK was studied, including beyond 26 dBm as a
function of the UL duty cycle. Potential specification impacts include: UE
behavior for power boosting based on the UL time domain resource allocation,
explicit or implicit signaling, RF requirement.
One source (R1-2008626) evaluates the performance of UE transmit waveform
design to reduce MPR and shows 1 \~1.5 dB gain, compared to Rel-16 DFT-S-OFDM
and CP-OFDM.
One source (R1-2007905) evaluates the performance of power boosting for pi/2
BPSK and shows around 3 dB gain for UL duty cycle less than 50% and around 6
dB gain for UL duty cycle less than 25%.
Table 6.1.4 Performance evaluation for power domain based solutions
Source Solutions Performance gain Key Assumptions
* * *
R1-2007905 Power boosting for pi/2 BPSK 3 dB for \ACK | | (R1-2009802) | | Enhancement: | error | | | | DMRS-less | | | | | PUCCH | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 3dB | Source 10 | | | | | (R1-2008272) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 3\~4dB | Source 9 | | | | | (receiver | | | | | assumption A) | | | | | | | | | | (R1-2009747) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Scenario 2: | 1% BLER | 3dB | Source 3 | | 3/4/6 bits UCI | | | (receiver | | | | | assumption 2) | | Baseline: PF3 | | | | | | | | (R1-2009802) | | Enhancement: | | | | | DMRS-less | | | | | PUCCH | | | | | | | | | | Note: Source 2 | | | | | (R1-2009602)/ | | | | | Source 7 | | | | | (R1-2008420) | | | | | simulated 3-7 | | | | | bits UCI | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 3dB | Source 4 | | | | | (R1-2008400) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 1.5 \~ 2.1dB | Source 8 | | | | | (R1-2009451) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 0 \~ 0.2dB | Source 7 | | | | | (R1-2008420) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 1% FA, 1% BLER | 0dB | Source 2 | | | | | (R1-2009602) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 0.3\~0.5dB | Source 6 | | | | | (R1-2009648) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 1% FA, 1% | 1\~2dB | Source 6 | | | ACK m | | (R1-2009648) | | | iss detection, | | | | | and 0.1% NACK | | | | | to ACK | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 2.8dB | Source 3 | | | | | (receiver | | | | | assumption 2) | | | | | | | | | | (R1-2009802) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 1dB | Source 3 | | | | | (receiver | | | | | assumption 1) | | | | | | | | | | (R1-2009802) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 0dB | Source 7 | | | | | (R1-2009737) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Scenario 3: 11 | 1% BLER | 3\~4dB | Source 3 | | bits UCI | | | (receiver | | | | | assumption 2) | | Baseline: PF3 | | | | | | | | (R1-2009802) | | Enhancement: | | | | | DMRS-less | | | | | PUCCH | | | | | | | | | | Note: Source 2 | | | | | (R1-2 | | | | | 009602)/Source | | | | | 7 (R1-2008420) | | | | | simulated 8-11 | | | | | bits UCI | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 0.8\~1.5dB | Source 3 | | | | | (receiver | | | | | assumption 1) | | | | | | | | | | (R1-2009802) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 3dB | Source 9 | | | | | (receiver | | | | | assumption B) | | | | | | | | | | (R1-2009747) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 2.4dB | Source 9 | | | | | (receiver | | | | | assumption A) | | | | | | | | | | (R1-2009747) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 2\~3dB | Source 1 | | | | | (R1-2009696) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 1.5\~2.1dB | Source 8 | | | | | (R1-2009451) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 0 \~ 0.2dB | Source 7 | | | | | (R1-2008420) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 1 \~ 2.7dB | Source 5 | | | | | (R1-2008027) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 1% FA, 1% BLER | 0.3dB | Source 2 | | | | | (R1-2009602) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 2.1dB | Source 3 | | | | | (receiver | | | | | assumption 2) | | | | | | | | | | (R1-2009802) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 1% FA, 1% | 4dB | Source 6 | | | ACK m | | (R1-2009648) | | | iss detection, | | | | | and 0.1% NACK | | | | | to ACK error | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 3.8dB | Source 1 | | | | | (R1-2009696) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 4dB | Source 3 | | | | | (receiver | | | | | assumption 2) | | | | | | | | | | (R1-2009802) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 0.9\~4.8dB | Source 3 | | | | | (receiver | | | | | assumption 1) | | | | | | | | | | (R1-2009802) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 4.1dB | Source 9 | | | | | (receiver | | | | | assumption B) | | | | | | | | | | (R1-2009747) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 2.8dB | Source 9 | | | | | (receiver | | | | | assumption A) | | | | | | | | | | (R1-2009747) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 0dB | Source 7 | | | | | (R1-2009737) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 1% FA, 1% | 4dB | Source 3 | | | BLER, and 5% | | (receiver | | | undetectable | | assumption 2) | | | error rate | | | | | | | (R1-2009802) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 1.5\~2.8dB | Source 3 | | | | | (receiver | | | | | assumption 1) | | | | | | | | | | (R1-2009802) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 3dB | Source 9 | | | | | (receiver | | | | | assumption B) | | | | | | | | | | (R1-2009747) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 2dB | Source 9 | | | | | (receiver | | | | | assumption A) | | | | | | | | | | (R1-2009747) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 0dB | Source 7 | | | | | (R1-2009737) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Scenario 3: | 1% BLER | -2dB | Source 8 | | 22/24 bits UCI | | | (R1-2009451) | | | | | | | Baseline: PF3 | | | | | | | | | | Enhancement: | | | | | DMRS-less | | | | | PUCCH | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 1dB | Source 3 | | | | | (receiver | | | | | assumption 2) | | | | | | | | | | (R1-2009802) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Note 1: false alarm rate is the probability that DTX is detected as a correct
payload.
Note 2: undetectable error rate = # instances that a UCI payload is declared
as correct when the UCI payload is in error / Total # instances that UCI
payloads are in error, where a UCI payload is declared as correct if it passes
the error detection check.
Table 6.2.1-2: Performance (PAPR/CM) gain observed for DMRS-less PUCCH over
Rel-15/16 baseline
+------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Modulation order | Observed PAPR/CM gain | Source | +==================+=======================+=======================+ | QPSK | 3.5dB PARR gain | Source 3 (R1-2009802) | | | | | | | 1dB CM gain | | +------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | | 6.3dB PAPR gain | Source 8 (R1-2009451) | +------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | | 4.5dB PAPR gain | Source 9 (R1-2009747) | | | | | | | 1.7dB CM gain | | +------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Pi/2 BPSK | 0.5dB PAPR gain | Source 3 (R1-2009802) | | | | | | | 0.6dB CM gain | | +------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | | 4.8 dB PAPR gain | Source 8 (R1-2009451) | +------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | | 2.4dB PAPR gain | Source 9 (R1-2009747) | +------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
Table 6.2.1-3: Key simulation assumptions for DMRS-less PUCCH study
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | Company | Key simulation assumptions | +==============+======================================================+ | Source 1 | Channel model of TDL-C 300 ns, UE speed of 3km/h | | | | | (R1-2009696) | Receiver for Rel-15/16 PUCCH: ML coherent receiver | | | | | | Receiver for sequence based PUCCH: ML noncoherent | | | sequence detector | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | Source 2 | Channel model of TDL-C 300 ns, UE speed of 3km/h | | | | | (R1-2009602) | Receiver for Rel-15/16 PUCCH: ML coherent receiver | | | (MMSE channel estimator and equalizer) and | | | non-coherent receiver | | | | | | Receiver for sequence based PUCCH: ML noncoherent | | | sequence detector/correlator | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | Source 3 | Channel model of TDL-C and TDL-A with up to 800 ns | | | channel delay spread (including effects of timing | | (R1-2009802) | error), up to 1111 Hz doppler (including effect of | | | frequency error) | | | | | | Receiver assumption 1: | | | | | | - Receiver for Rel-15/16 PUCCH: noncoherent ML | | | detection performed on union of PUCCH DMRS and UCI | | | symbols. Error detection based on noncoherent duo | | | metric. | | | | | | - Receiver for sequence based PUCCH: ML noncoherent | | | receiver (correlator with 2D-FFT or fast Hadamard | | | transform) | | | | | | Receiver assumption 2: | | | | | | - Receiver for Rel-15/16 PUCCH: ML coherent | | | receiver | | | | | | - Receiver for sequence based PUCCH: ML noncoherent | | | receiver (correlator with 2D-FFT or fast Hadamard | | | transform) | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | Source 4 | Receiver for Rel-15/16 PUCCH: MMSE channel | | | estimation (with genie Doppler and delay spread) + | | (R1-2008400) | ML coherent detection | | | | | | Receiver for sequence based PUCCH: ML noncoherent | | | sequence detector/correlator | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | Source 5 | Channel model of TDL-C 300 ns | | | | | (R1-2008027) | Receiver for Rel-15/16 PUCCH: ML coherent receiver | | | | | | Receiver for sequence based PUCCH: ML noncoherent | | | sequence detector/correlator | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | Source 6 | Channel model of TDL-C 100 ns, UE speed of 3km/h | | | | | (R1-2009648) | Receiver for Rel-15/16 PUCCH: ML coherent receiver | | | | | | Receiver for sequence based PUCCH: ML noncoherent | | | sequence detector/correlator | | | | | | Ideal noise power estimation is used for both | | | receiver for both legacy PUCCH and new sequence | | | based PUCCH, and the noise power is used only in DTX | | | detection. | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | Source 7 | Channel model of TDL-C 300 ns, UE speed of 3km/h | | | | | (R1-2008420, | Receiver for Rel-15/16 PUCCH: conventional and ML | | | noncoherent | | R1-2009737) | | | | receiver | | | | | | Receiver for sequence based PUCCH: ML noncoherent | | | receiver | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | Source 8 | Receiver for Rel-15/16 PUCCH: advanced receivers for | | | \: Simulation assumptions
# A.1 Simulation assumptions for FR1
This clause describes the link-level simulation assumptions for FR1. Table
A.1-1 shows the general parameters for all channels. Table A.1-2\~Table A.1-8
shows the channel-specific parameters for each channel respectively.
Table A.1-1: General parameters for FR1
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +==================================+==================================+ | Scenario and frequency | Urban: 4GHz (TDD), 2.6GHz (TDD) | | | | | | Rural: 4GHz (TDD), 2.6GHz (TDD), | | | 2GHz (FDD), 700MHz (FDD) | | | | | | Rural with long distance: 700MHz | | | (FDD), 4GHz (TDD) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Frame structure for TDD | DDDSU (S: 10D:2G:2U) only for | | | 4GHz | | | | | | DDDSUDDSUU (S: 10D:2G:2U) only | | | for 4GHz | | | | | | DDDDDDDSUU (S: 6D:4G:4U) only | | | for 2.6GHz | | | | | | Other frame structures can be | | | reported by companies. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Target data rates for eMBB | Urban: DL 10Mbps, UL 1Mbps | | | | | | Rural: DL 1Mbps, UL 100kbps | | | | | | Rural with long distance: DL | | | 1Mbps, UL 100kbps, 30kbps | | | (optional) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Packet size for VoIP | A packet size of 320 bits with | | | 20ms data arriving interval is | | | adopted. | | | | | | Size (bits) | | | ------------ ---- | | | -------------------------------- | | | Payload 256 | | | CRC 16 | | | (TBS size lower than 3824 bits) | | | MAC | | | 16 (with 12 bits SN size) | | | RLC | | | 8 (with 6 bits SN size) | | | PDCP 16 | | | RTP/UDP/IP 24 (w RoHC) | | | | | | If applicable, companies report | | | TB size assumed in evaluation. | | | | | | For SIP invite message | | | | | | - Payload of 1500 bytes can be | | | a starting point. | | | | | | - The assumptions (TB size, | | | time period etc.) are reported | | | by companies. | | | | | | - Contributions R1-2003464 and | | | R1-2005259 are taken into | | | account for the evaluation | | | | | | - In addition, 1 second time | | | period can also be considered. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Latency requirements for VoIP | Latency requirements assumed in | | | VoIP evaluation for TDD and FDD | | | are reported by companies. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Pathloss model (select from LoS | Urban: NLoS | | or NLoS) | | | | Rural: NLoS and LoS | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **BWP** | 100MHz for 4GHz and 2.6GHz. | | | | | | 20MHz for 2GHz (FDD) | | | | | | 20MHz (optional for 10MHz) for | | | 700MHz. (FDD) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel model for link-level | TDL-C for NLOS, TDL-D for LOS. | | simulation | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Delay spread | Urban: 300ns | | | | | | Rural: 300ns | | | | | | Rural with long distance: 30ns | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE velocity | Urban: 3km/h for indoor | | | | | | Rural: 3km/h for indoor, 120km/h | | | (optional 30km/h) for outdoor | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of antenna elements for | - Urban: 192 antenna elements | | BS | for 4GHz and 2.6GHz, | | | | | | (M,N,P,Mg,Ng) = (12,8,2,1,1) | | | | | | (optional) 128 antenna elements | | | for 4GHz, | | | | | | (M,N,P,Mg,Ng) = (8,8,2,1,1) | | | | | | - Rural: 64 antenna elements | | | for 4GHz and 2.6GHz | | | | | | (M,N,P,Mg,Ng) = (8,4,2,1,1) | | | | | | 32 antenna elements for 2GHz | | | | | | (M,N,P,Mg,Ng) = (8,2,2,1,1) | | | | | | 16 antenna elements for 700MHz | | | | | | (M,N,P,Mg,Ng) = (4,2,2,1,1) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of TxRUs for BS | gNB architectures to study: | | | | | | - 2 or 4 TXRUs for 2GHz, 700 | | | MHz | | | | | | - 64TxRUs for 2.6 and 4 GHz. | | | | | | - Optional: 32 TXRUs at 2 GHz | | | | | | gNB modeling in LLS for TDL: | | | | | | - Option 1: 2 or 4 gNB RF | | | chains in LLS. | | | | | | - Option 2 (Optional): Number | | | of gNB RF chains = number of | | | TXRUs in LLS. | | | | | | - Companies can report if and | | | how correlation is modelled. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table A.1-2: Channel-specific parameters for PUSCH for FR1
+------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +==============================+======================================+ | Frequency hopping | w/ or w/o frequency hopping | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | BLER | For eMBB, w/ HARQ, 10% iBLER; w/o | | | HARQ, 10% iBLER. | | | | | | For VoIP, 2% rBLER. | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Number of UE transmit chains | 1, 2 (optional) | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | DMRS configuration | For 3km/h: Type I, 1 or 2 DMRS | | | symbol, no multiplexing with data. | | | | | | For 120km/h, (Optional: 30km/h): | | | Type I, 2 or 3 DMRS symbol, no | | | multiplexing with data. | | | | | | For frequency hopping: Type I, 1 or | | | 2 DMRS symbol for each hop, no | | | multiplexing with data. | | | | | | PUSCH mapping Type, the number of | | | DMRS symbols and DMRS position(s) | | | are reported by companies. | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Waveform | DFT-s-OFDM, CP-OFDM (optional) | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | **SCS** | 30kHz for TDD, 15kHz for FDD. | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | PUSCH duration | 14 OS | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Repetitions | For eMBB, w/o repetition as | | | baseline, w/ repetition (optional). | | | | | | For VoIP, w/ type A repetition, | | | optional for type B repetition. | | | | | | The actual number of repetitions is | | | reported by companies. | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | HARQ configuration | For eMBB, whether HARQ is adopted is | | | reported by companies. | | | | | | For VoIP, w/ HARQ. | | | | | | The maximum number of HARQ | | | transmission (limited by frame | | | structure and latency requirements) | | | can be reported by companies. | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | PRBs/TBS/MCS for eMBB | Any value of PRBs, and corresponding | | | MCS index, reported by companies | | | will be considered in the | | | discussion. Companies are encouraged | | | to use 30 PRBs for 1Mbps, 4 PRBs for | | | 100kbps, 1 PRB for 30kbps as a | | | starting point. | | | | | | TBS can be calculated based on e.g. | | | the number of PRBs, target data | | | rate, frame structure and overhead. | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | PRBs/MCS for VoIP | 4 PRBs for VoIP as starting point. | | | | | | Other values of PRBs can be reported | | | by companies. | | | | | | QPSK, pi/2 BPSK (optional) | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
Table A.1-3: Channel-specific parameters for PUCCH for FR1
+------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +==============================+======================================+ | PUCCH format | Format 1, 2bits UCI. | | | | | | Format 3, 4bits (3 bits A/N + 1 bit | | | SR)/11/22 bits UCI | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Frequency hopping | w/ frequency hopping | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | BLER | - For PUCCH format 1: | | | | | | DTX to ACK probability: 1%. NACK to | | | ACK probability: 0.1%. | | | | | | ACK missed detection probability: | | | 1%. | | | | | | - For PUCCH format 3: | | | | | | BLER for Ack/Nack, SR: 1% | | | | | | BLER for CSI: 1%, optional for 10%. | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Number of UE transmit chains | 1 | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | DMRS configuration | Number of DMRS symbols for PUCCH | | | Format 3: Reported by companies | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | **SCS** | 30kHz for TDD, 15kHz for FDD. | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Repetitions | w/ repetition (optional), w/o | | | repetition for PUCCH. | | | | | | The maximum number of repetitions is | | | 8. | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | PUCCH duration | 14 OS | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Number of PRBs | 1 PRB | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
Table A.1-4: Channel-specific parameters for PRACH for FR1
+------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +==============================+======================================+ | Format | Format 0, Format B4, or Format C2 | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | SCS | Reported by companies. | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Performance metric | 1% missed detection at 0.1% false | | | alarm probability | | | | | | 10% missed detection: reported by | | | companies if this value is used | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Number of UE transmit chains | 1, 2 (optional) | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Other parameters | Reported by companies. | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
Table A.1-5: Channel-specific parameters for PUSCH of Msg.3 for FR1
+------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +==============================+======================================+ | Frequency hopping | w/ or w/o frequency hopping | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Number of UE transmit chains | 1, 2 (optional) | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Number of DMRS symbol | w/o frequency hopping: 3, | | | | | | w/ frequency hopping: 2 for each hop | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Waveform | DFT-s-OFDM | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | **SCS** | 30kHz for TDD, 15kHz for FDD. | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | HARQ configuration | For eMBB, whether HARQ is adopted is | | | reported by companies. | | | | | | For VoIP, w/ HARQ. | | | | | | The maximum number of HARQ | | | transmission (limited by frame | | | structure and latency requirements) | | | can be reported by companies. | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | PUSCH duration | 14 OS | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Number of PRBs | 2 | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | TBS | 56 bits | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Other parameters | Reported by companies. | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
Table A.1-6: Channel-specific parameters for PDSCH for FR1
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +=================================+===================================+ | BLER | For eMBB, w/ HARQ, 10% iBLER; w/o | | | HARQ, 10% iBLER. | | | | | | For VoIP, 2% rBLER. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Waveform | CP-OFDM | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Number of UE receive chains | 4 for 4GHz/2.6GHz, 2 or 4 for | | | 2GHz, 2 for 700MHz | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | **SCS** | 30kHz for TDD, 15kHz for FDD. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | HARQ configuration | For eMBB, whether HARQ is adopted | | | is reported by companies. | | | | | | For VoIP, w/ HARQ. | | | | | | The maximum number of HARQ | | | transmission (limited by frame | | | structure and latency | | | requirements) can be reported by | | | companies. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | DMRS configuration | 3 DMRS symbols is used for PDSCH | | | of Msg.2. | | | | | | For 3km/h: Type I, 1 or 2 DMRS | | | symbol, no multiplexing with | | | data. | | | | | | For 120km/h, (Optional: 30km/h): | | | Type I, 2 or 3 DMRS symbol, no | | | multiplexing with data. | | | | | | For frequency hopping: Type I, 1 | | | or 2 DMRS symbol for each hop, no | | | multiplexing with data. | | | | | | PDSCH mapping Type, the number of | | | DMRS symbols and DMRS position(s) | | | are reported by companies. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | PRBs/MCS/TBS | Reported by companies. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | PDSCH duration | 12 OS | | | | | | For PDSCH of Msg.4, 12 OS | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Payload size for PDSCH of Msg.4 | 1040 bits | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Other parameters | Reported by companies. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
Table A.1-7: Channel-specific parameters for PDCCH for FR1
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +==================================+==================================+ | Number of UE receive chains | 4 for 4GHz/2.6GHz, 2 or 4 for | | | 2GHz, 2 for 700MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **SCS** | 30kHz for TDD, 15kHz for FDD. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Aggregation level | 16 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Payload | 40 bits | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CORESET size | 2 symbols, 48 PRBs | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Tx Diversity | Reported by companies | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BLER | 1% BLER | | | | | | optional for 10% BLER | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of SSB for broadcast | Reported by companies | | PDCCH of Msg.2 | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Other parameters | Reported by companies | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table A.1-8: Channel-specific parameters for SSB for FR1
+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +=============================+=======================================+ | Number of UE receive chains | 4 for 4GHz/2.6GHz, 2 or 4 for 2GHz, 2 | | | for 700MHz | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | **SCS** | 30kHz for TDD, 15kHz for FDD. | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Periodicity | 20ms | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Performance metric | Combination of 4 SSBs in 80ms. | | | | | | Note: UE is not assumed to know the | | | SS/PBCH block index | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Other parameters | Reported by companies. | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+
# A.2 Simulation assumptions for FR2
This clause describes the link-level simulation assumptions for FR2. Table
A.2-1 shows the general parameters for all channels. Table A.2-2\~Table A.2-8
shows the channel-specific parameters for each channel respectively.
Table A.2-1: General parameters for FR2
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +==================================+==================================+ | Scenario and frequency | Indoor: 28GHz (TDD) | | | | | | Urban: 28GHz (TDD) | | | | | | Suburban: 28GHz (TDD) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Frame structure for TDD | DDDSU (S: 10D:2G:2U) | | | | | | DDSU (S: 11D:3G:0U) | | | | | | Other frame structures can be | | | reported by companies. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Target data rates for eMBB | Indoor: DL: 25Mbps, UL:5Mbps | | | | | | Urban: DL: 25Mbps, UL: 5Mbps | | | | | | Suburban: DL: 1Mbps, UL: 50kbps | | | (low priority) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Packet size for VoIP | A packet size of 320 bits with | | | 20ms data arriving interval is | | | adopted. | | | | | | Size (bits) | | | ------------ ---- | | | -------------------------------- | | | Payload 256 | | | CRC 16 | | | (TBS size lower than 3824 bits) | | | MAC | | | 16 (with 12 bits SN size) | | | RLC | | | 8 (with 6 bits SN size) | | | PDCP 16 | | | RTP/UDP/IP 24 (w RoHC) | | | | | | If applicable, companies report | | | TB size assumed in evaluation. | | | | | | For SIP invite message | | | | | | - Payload of 1500 bytes can be | | | a starting point. | | | | | | - The assumptions (TB size, | | | time period etc.) are reported | | | by companies. | | | | | | - Contributions R1-2003464 and | | | R1-2005259 are taken into | | | account for the evaluation | | | | | | - In addition, 1 second time | | | period can also be considered. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Latency requirements for VoIP | Latency requirements assumed in | | | VoIP evaluation for TDD and FDD | | | are reported by companies. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **BWP** | 100MHz, [400MHz] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel model for link-level | CDL- A, TDL-A, [urban/suburban: | | simulation | TDL-C] | | | | | | Note: company can provide | | | simulation results based on | | | either TDL channel or CDL model | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Delay spread | Indoor scenario: 30ns | | | | | | Urban scenario: 100ns | | | | | | Suburban scenario: 100ns | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE velocity | Indoor scenario:3km/h | | | | | | Urban scenario: 3km/h for | | | indoor, 30km/h for outdoor. | | | | | | Suburban scenario: 3km/h for | | | indoor, 30km/h, (optional: | | | 120km/h) for outdoor. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of antenna elements for | Indoor scenario: 128 | | BS | | | | (M, N, P, Mg, Ng) = (8, 8, 2, 1, | | | 1) | | | | | | Urban/suburban scenario: | | | | | | 256, (M,N,P,Mg,Ng) = (4, 8, 2, | | | 2, 2) | | | | | | Optional: 512, (M,N,P,Mg,Ng) = | | | (8,8,2,2,2) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of TxRUs for BS | 2 | | | | | | Note: Analog beamforming is | | | assumed. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of UE antenna elements | 8, one panel:(M, N, P) = | | | (2,2,2), | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table A.2-2: Channel-specific parameters for PUSCH for FR2
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +===========================+=========================================+ | Frequency hopping | w/ or w/o frequency hopping | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | BLER | For eMBB, | | | | | | w/ HARQ, 10% iBLER, Optional: companies | | | report rBLER. | | | | | | w/o HARQ, 10% iBLER. | | | | | | For VoIP, 2% rBLER. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Number of UE Tx/Rx chains | 1T2R, 2T2R | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | DMRS configuration | For 3km/h: Type I, 1 or 2 DMRS symbol, | | | no multiplexing with data. | | | | | | For 30km/h (optional: 120km/h): Type I, | | | 2 or 3 DMRS symbol, no multiplexing | | | with data. | | | | | | For frequency hopping for PUSCH: Type | | | I, 1 or 2 DMRS symbol for each hop, no | | | multiplexing with data. | | | | | | PUSCH/PDSCH mapping Type, the number of | | | DMRS symbols and DMRS position(s) are | | | reported by companies. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Waveform | DFT-s-OFDM | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | **SCS** | 120kHz. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | PUSCH duration | 14 OS | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Repetitions | For eMBB, w/o repetition as baseline, | | | w/ repetition (optional). | | | | | | For VoIP, w/ repetition. | | | | | | The actual number of repetitions is | | | reported by companies. | | | | | | Only PUSCH repetition type A is | | | considered for baseline performance | | | evaluation. | | | | | | o Note: companies are not precluded to | | | report results for repetition type B. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | HARQ configuration | For eMBB, whether HARQ is adopted is | | | reported by companies. | | | | | | For VoIP, w/ HARQ. | | | | | | The maximum number of HARQ transmission | | | (limited by frame structure and latency | | | requirements) can be reported by | | | companies. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | PRBs/TBS/MCS for eMBB | Any value of PRBs, and corresponding | | | MCS index, reported by companies will | | | be considered in the discussion. | | | Companies are encouraged to use [30] | | | PRBs for 5Mbps for PUSCH as a starting | | | point. | | | | | | TBS can be calculated based on e.g. the | | | number of PRBs, target data rate, frame | | | structure and overhead. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | PRBs/MCS for VoIP | [4 PRBs] for VoIP as starting point. | | | Other values of PRBs can be reported by | | | companies. | | | | | | QPSK for PUSCH | | | | | | Optional: pi/2 BPSK for PUSCH | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
Table A.2-3: Channel-specific parameters for PUCCH for FR2
+------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +==============================+======================================+ | PUCCH format | Format 1, 2bits UCI. | | | | | | Format 3, [4bits (3 bits A/N + 1 | | | bit SR)]/11/22 bits UCI | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Frequency hopping | w/ frequency hopping | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | BLER | - For PUCCH format 1: | | | | | | DTX to ACK probability: 1%. NACK to | | | ACK probability: 0.1%. | | | | | | ACK missed detection probability: | | | 1%. | | | | | | - For PUCCH format 3: | | | | | | BLER: 1% | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Number of UE transmit chains | 1 | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | DMRS configuration for | 4 DMRS symbols for PUCCH Format 3. | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | **SCS** | 120kHz | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Repetitions | w/ repetition (optional), w/o | | | repetition for PUCCH. | | | | | | The maximum number of repetitions is | | | 8. | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | PUCCH duration | 14 OFDM symbols | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Number of PRBs | 1 PRB | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
Table A.2-4: Channel-specific parameters for PRACH for FR2
Parameter Value
* * *
Format Format B4, (Optional: Format C2) SCS Reported by companies. Performance
metric 0.1% false alarm, 1% miss-detection Number of UE Tx chains 1T, 2T
Number of SSB beams Reported by companies Other parameters Reported by
companies.
Table A.2-5: Channel-specific parameters for PUSCH of Msg.3 for FR2
+------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +========================+============================================+ | Frequency hopping | w/ or w/o frequency hopping | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Number of UE Tx chains | 1T, 2T | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Number of DMRS symbol | w/o frequency hopping: 3, | | | | | | w/ frequency hopping: 2 for each hop | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Waveform | DFT-s-OFDM | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | **SCS** | 120kHz | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | HARQ configuration | For eMBB, whether HARQ is adopted is | | | reported by companies. | | | | | | For VoIP, w/ HARQ. | | | | | | The maximum number of HARQ transmission | | | (limited by frame structure and latency | | | requirements) can be reported by | | | companies. | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | TBS | 56 bits | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | PUSCH duration | 14 OS | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Number of PRBs | 2 | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Other parameters | Reported by companies. | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
Table A.2-6: Channel-specific parameters for PDSCH for FR2
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +=================================+===================================+ | BLER | For eMBB, | | | | | | w/ HARQ, 10% iBLER, Optional: | | | companies report rBLER. | | | | | | w/o HARQ, 10% iBLER. | | | | | | For VoIP, 2% rBLER. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Waveform | CP-OFDM | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Number of UE receive chains | 2 | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | **SCS** | 120kHz | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | HARQ configuration | For eMBB, whether HARQ is adopted | | | is reported by companies. | | | | | | For VoIP, w/ HARQ. | | | | | | The maximum number of HARQ | | | transmission (limited by frame | | | structure and latency | | | requirements) can be reported by | | | companies. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | DMRS configuration | For 3km/h: Type I, 1 or 2 DMRS | | | symbol, no multiplexing with | | | data. | | | | | | For 30km/h (optional: 120km/h): | | | Type I, 2 or 3 DMRS symbol, no | | | multiplexing with data. | | | | | | For frequency hopping for PUSCH: | | | Type I, 1 or 2 DMRS symbol for | | | each hop, no multiplexing with | | | data. | | | | | | PUSCH/PDSCH mapping Type, the | | | number of DMRS symbols and DMRS | | | position(s) are reported by | | | companies. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | PRBs/TBS/MCS for eMBB | Any value of PRBs, and | | | corresponding MCS index, reported | | | by companies will be considered | | | in the discussion. Companies are | | | encouraged to use full bandwidth | | | for 25Mbps for PDSCH as a | | | starting point. | | | | | | TBS can be calculated based on | | | e.g. the number of PRBs, target | | | data rate, frame structure and | | | overhead. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | PRBs/MCS for VoIP | [4 PRBs] for VoIP as starting | | | point. Other values of PRBs can | | | be reported by companies. | | | | | | QPSK for PDSCH | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | PDSCH duration | 12 OS | | | | | | For PDSCH of Msg.4, 12 OS | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Payload size for PDSCH of Msg.4 | 1040 bits | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
Table A.2-7: Channel-specific parameters for PDCCH for FR2
Parameter Value
* * *
Number of UE receive chains 2 **SCS** 120kHz Aggregation level 16 Payload 40
bits CORESET size 2 symbols, 48 PRBs Tx Diversity Reported by companies BLER
1% BLER Number of SSB for broadcast PDCCH of Msg.2 Reported by companies Other
parameters Reported by companies
Table A.2-8: Channel-specific parameters for SSB for FR2
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +===========================+=========================================+ | Number of UE Tx/Rx chains | 1T2R, 2T2R | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | **SCS** | 120kHz | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Periodicity | 20ms | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Performance metric | Combination of 4 SSBs in 80ms. | | | | | | Note: UE is not assumed to know the | | | SS/PBCH block index | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Other parameters | Reported by companies. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
# A.3 Link budget template
Table A.3: Link budget template
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | System configuration | | +==================================+==================================+ | Channel for evaluation | **PUSCH/ PUCCH/ Msg.3 PUSCH/ | | | PRACH/ Broadcast PDCCH(Msg.2 | | | PDCCH)/ Msg.2 PDSCH/ Msg.4 | | | PDSCH/ PDSCH/ Unicast PDCCH/ | | | SSB/ PUSCH for CSI/PUCCH with | | | HARQ-ACK for Msg.4/ PUSCH with | | | SIP invite** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Scenarios and Carrier frequency | **For FR1:** | | (GHz) | | | | - **Urban 4 GHz TDD/ 2.6 GHz | | | TDD** | | | | | | - **Rural 4 GHz TDD/ 2.6 GHz | | | TDD/ 2 GHz FDD/ 700 MHz FDD** | | | | | | - **Rural with long distance | | | 700 MHz FDD/ 4 GHz TDD** | | | | | | **For FR2:** | | | | | | - **Indoor 28 GHz TDD** | | | | | | - **Urban 28 GHz TDD** | | | | | | - **Suburban 28 GHz TDD** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS antenna heights (m) | Reported by companies, 25m for | | | urban, 35m for rural can be used | | | as a starting point. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UT antenna heights (m) | Reported by companies, 1.5m can | | | be used as a starting point. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Cell area reliability (%) | Reported by companies, 95% for | | | control channel, 90% for data | | | channel can be used as a | | | starting point. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Lognormal shadow fading std | **Reported by companies** | | deviation (dB) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Tx Diversity | **Reported by companies** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of SSB | **Reported by companies** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Transmitter | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (1) Number of transmit antenna | For FR1 BS: | | elements | | | | - Urban: | | | | | | - 192 antenna elements for 4GHz | | | and 2.6GHz | | | | | | - (optional) 128 antenna | | | elements for 4GHz | | | | | | - Rural: | | | | | | - 64 for 4GHz and 2.6GHz | | | | | | - 32 antenna elements for 2GHz | | | | | | For FR2 BS: | | | | | | - Indoor scenario: 128 | | | | | | - Urban/suburban scenario: 256, | | | Optional: 512 | | | | | | For FR1 UE: | | | | | | - 1 | | | | | | - 2 (optional) | | | | | | For FR2 UE: | | | | | | - 8 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (2) Number of transmit | FR1 BS: | | TxRUs~~\ | | | ~~Note: this row is void (left | - 2 or 4 TXRUs for 2GHz, 700 | | empty) for uplink | MHz | | | | | | - 64TxRUs for 2.6 and 4 GHz | | | | | | - Optional: 32 TXRUs at 2 GHz | | | | | | FR2 BS: | | | | | | - 2 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (2a) Number of transmit chains | For FR1 BS: | | modelled in LLS | | | | - Option 1: 2 or 4 gNB transmit | | | chains in LLS. | | | | | | - Option 2 (optional): Number | | | of gNB transmit chains = number | | | of TXRUs | | | | | | FR2 BS: | | | | | | - 2 | | | | | | For FR1 UE: | | | | | | - PUSCH/ Msg.3 PUSCH/ PRACH: 1, | | | 2 (optional) | | | | | | - PUCCH: 1 | | | | | | For FR2 UE: | | | | | | - Option 1: PUSCH/ Msg.3 PUSCH/ | | | PRACH: 1, 2; PUCCH: 1 | | | | | | - Option 2: 8 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (3) Total transmit power (dBm) | For FR1 UE: | | ~~\ | | | ~~Note: total transmit power for | - 23 dBm for UE | | system bandwidth | | | | For FR2 UE: | | | | | | - 23 dBm and/or 12 dBm for UE | | | (other values can be reported by | | | companies) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (3a) System bandwidth for | For downlink: | | downlink, or occupied bandwidth | | | for uplink (Hz) | System bandwidth for FR1: | | | | | | - 100MHz for 4GHz and 2.6GHz | | | | | | - 20MHz for 2GHz (FDD) | | | | | | - 20MHz (optional for 10MHz) | | | for 700MHz. (FDD) | | | | | | System bandwidth for FR2: | | | | | | - 100MHz, [400MHz] | | | | | | For uplink: | | | | | | - Occupied bandwidth is | | | reported by companies | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (3b) Power Spectrum Density = | | | (3) - 10 log( (3a) / 1000000 ) | | | (dBm/MHz)\ | | | Note: For FR1 downlink, (3b) | | | should satisfy the following:\ | | | For 4GHz frequency, 24 and 33\ | | | For 2.6 GHz frequency, 33\ | | | For 700MH and 2GHz frequency, | | | 36\ | | | Note: For FR2 downlink, the | | | following should be satisfied:\ | | | 40 dBm for 100 MHz Urban | | | scenario,\ | | | 23 dBm for 100 MHz Indoor | | | scenario.\ | | | Note: no PSD constraint for | | | uplink | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (3c) Bandwidth used for the | | | evaluated channel (Hz)\ | | | Note: (3c) is identical to the | | | number of PRBs assigned to the | | | channel evaluated.\ | | | For uplink, (3a) = (3c) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (3bis) Total transmit power for | | | occupied bandwidth = (3b) + 10 | | | log ( (3c) / 1000000 ) (dBm) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (4) Total antenna gain at | | | antenna gain component 3 & | | | antenna gain component 4 of | | | transmitter = (4a) -- (4b) (dB) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (4a) Antenna gain at antenna | | | gain component 3 & antenna gain | | | component 4 of transmitter\ | | | = (4c) + 10 log ( (1) / (2) ) | | | (dB) for downlink, and\ | | | = (4c) + 10 log ( (1) / (2a) ) | | | (dB) for uplink | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (4b) Antenna gain correction | Reported by companies | | factor at antenna gain component | | | 3 & antenna gain component 4 of | | | transmitter (dB) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (4c) Gain of antenna element | For BS: | | (dBi) | | | | - 8 dBi or reported by | | | companies | | | | | | For UE: | | | | | | - 0 dBi for FR1 | | | | | | - 5 dBi for FR2 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (5) Total antenna gain at | | | antenna gain component 2 of | | | transmitter = (5a) - (5b) (dB)\ | | | Note: zero for uplink | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (5a) Antenna gain at antenna | | | gain component 2 of transmitter | | | = 10 log( (2)/(2a)) (dB)\ | | | Note: zero for uplink | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (5b) Antenna gain correction | Reported by companies | | factor at antenna gain component | | | 2 of transmitter (dB)\ | | | Note: zero for uplink | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (8) Cable, connector, | Reported by companies | | combiner, body losses, etc. | | | (enumerate sources) (dB) (feeder | | | loss must be included for and | | | only for downlink) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (9) EIRP = (3bis) + (4) + (5) | | | -- (8) dBm | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Receiver | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (10) Number of receive antenna | For FR1 BS: | | elements | | | | Urban: | | | | | | - 192 antenna elements for 4GHz | | | and 2.6GHz | | | | | | - (optional) 128 antenna | | | elements for 4GHz | | | | | | Rural: | | | | | | - 64 for 4GHz and 2.6GHz | | | | | | - 32 antenna elements for 2GHz | | | | | | For FR2 BS: | | | | | | - Indoor scenario: 128 | | | | | | - Urban/suburban scenario: 256, | | | Optional: 512 | | | | | | For FR1 UE: | | | | | | - 1 | | | | | | - (optional) 2 | | | | | | For FR2 UE: | | | | | | -8 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (10a) Number of receive TxRUs\ | FR1 BS: | | Note: this row is void (empty) | | | for downlink | - 2 or 4 TXRUs for 2GHz, 700 | | | MHz | | | | | | - 64TxRUs for 2.6 and 4 GHz | | | | | | - Optional: 32 TXRUs at 2 GHz | | | | | | FR2 BS: | | | | | | - 2 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (10b) Number of receive chains | For FR1 BS: | | modelled in LLS | | | | - Option 1: 2 or 4 gNB receive | | | chains in LLS. | | | | | | - Option 2 (optional): Number | | | of gNB receive chains = number | | | of TXRUs | | | | | | FR2 BS: | | | | | | - 2 | | | | | | For FR1 UE: | | | | | | - 4 for 4GHz/2.6GHz | | | | | | - 2 or 4 for 2GHz | | | | | | - 2 for 700MHz | | | | | | For FR2 UE: | | | | | | - Option 1: 2 | | | | | | - Option 2: 8 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (11) Total antenna gain at | | | antenna gain component 3 & | | | antenna gain component 4 of | | | receiver = (11a) - (11b) (dB) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (11a) Antenna gain at antenna | | | gain component 3 & antenna gain | | | component 4 of receiver\ | | | = (11c) + 10 log ( (10)/(10a) ) | | | (dB) for uplink\ | | | = (11c) + 10 log ( (10)/(10b) ) | | | (dB) for downlink | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (11b) Antenna gain correction | Reported by companies | | factor at antenna gain component | | | 3 & antenna gain component 4 of | | | receiver (dB) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (11c) Gain of antenna element | For BS: | | (dBi) | | | | - 8 dBi or reported by | | | companies | | | | | | For UE: | | | | | | - 0 dBi for FR1, | | | | | | - 5 dBi for FR2 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (11bis) Total antenna gain at | | | antenna gain component 2 of | | | receiver = (11bis-a) - (11bis-b) | | | (dB)\ | | | Note: zero for downlink | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (11bis-a) Antenna gain at | | | antenna gain component 2 of | | | receiver = 10 log( (10a)/(10b)) | | | (dB)\ | | | Note: zero for downlink | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (11bis-b) Antenna gain | Reported by companies | | correction factor at antenna | | | gain component 2 of receiver | | | (dB)\ | | | Note: zero for downlink | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (12) Cable, connector, | Reported by companies | | combiner, body losses, etc. | | | (enumerate sources) (dB) (feeder | | | loss must be included for and | | | only for uplink) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (13) Receiver noise figure | Reported by companies | | (dB) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (14) Thermal noise density | Reported by companies | | (dBm/Hz) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (15) Receiver interference | Reported by companies | | density (dBm/Hz) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (16) Total noise plus | | | interference density = 10 log | | | (10\^(( (13) + (14))/10) + | | | 10\^((15)/10)) (dBm/Hz) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (18) Effective noise power = | | | (16) + 10 log ((3c)) (dBm) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (19) Required SNR (dB) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (20) Receiver implementation | Reported by companies | | margin (dB) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (21) H-ARQ gain (dB)\ | Reported by companies | | Note: Only applicable if HARQ is | | | not considered in LLS | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (22) Receiver sensitivity = | | | (18) + (19) + (20) -- (21) (dBm) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (22bis) MCL = (3bis) -- (22) + | (22bis) MCL = (3bis) -- (22) + | | (5) + (11bis) (dB) | (5) + (11bis) (dB) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (23) Hardware link budget, | (23) Hardware link budget, | | a.k.a. MIL = (9) + (11) + | a.k.a. MIL = (9) + (11) + | | (11bis) − (12) − (22) (dB)\ | (11bis) − (12) − (22) (dB)\ | | Note: MIL can also be derived by | Note: MIL can also be derived by | | (22bis) + (4) -- (8) + (11) − | (22bis) + (4) -- (8) + (11) − | | (12) | (12) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Calculation of available | | | pathloss | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (25) Shadow fading margin | Reported by companies | | (function of the cell area | | | reliability and lognormal shadow | | | fading std deviation) (dB) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (26) BS | Reported by companies | | selection/macro-diversity gain | | | (dB) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (27) Penetration margin (dB) | Reported by companies | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (28) Other gains (dB) (if any | Reported by companies | | please specify) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (29) Available path loss | | | = (23) -- (25) + (26) -- (27) + | | | (28) (dB) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Range/coverage efficiency | | | calculation | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (30) Maximum range (based on | | | (29) and according to the system | | | configuration section of the | | | link budget) (m) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
# A.4 Derivation of target MCL for service dependent metric
Table A.4: Link budget for UMTS voice uplink
* * *
Transmitter
* * *
(2a) Number of transmit chains modelled in LLS 1
(3) Total transmit power (dBm) ~~\ 23 ~~Note: total transmit power for system
bandwidth
(3a) System bandwidth for downlink, or occupied bandwidth for uplink (Hz)
3840000
(3b) Power Spectrum Density = (3) - 10 log( (3a) / 1000000 ) (dBm/MHz)\ 17.16
Note: For FR1 downlink, (3b) should satisfy the following:\  
For 4GHz frequency, 24 and 33\  
For 2.6 GHz frequency, 33\  
For 700MH and 2GHz frequency, 36\  
Note: For FR2 downlink, the following should be satisfied:\  
40 dBm for 100 MHz Urban scenario,\  
23 dBm for 100 MHz Indoor scenario.\  
Note: no PSD constraint for uplink
(3c) bandwidth used for the evaluated channel (Hz)\ 3840000 Note: (3c) is
identical to the number of PRBs assigned to the channel evaluated.\  
for uplink, (3a) = (3c)
(3bis) Total transmit power for occupied bandwidth = (3b) + 10 log ( (3c) /
1000000 ) (dBm) 23.00
(5) total antenna gain at antenna gain component 2 of transmitter = (5a) -
(5b) (dB)\ 0 Note: zero for uplink
(5a) antenna gain at antenna gain component 2 of transmitter = 10 log(
(2)/(2a)) (dB)\ 0 Note: zero for uplink
(5b) antena gain correction factor at antenna gain component 2 of transmitter
(dB)\ 0 Note: zero for uplink
**Receiver**
(10a) Number of receive TxRUs\ 2 Note: this row is void (empty) for downlink
(10b) Number of receive chains modelled in LLS 2
(11bis) total antenna gain at antenna gain component 2 of receiver = (11bis-a)
- (11bis-b) (dB)\ 0 Note: zero for downlink
(11bis-a) antenna gain at antenna gain component 2 of receiver = 10 log(
(10a)/(10b)) (dB)\ 0 Note: zero for donwlink
(11bis-b) antena gain correction factor at antenna gain component 2 of
receiver (dB)\ 0 Note: zero for downlink
(13) Receiver noise figure (dB) 5
(14) Thermal noise density (dBm/Hz) -174
(15) Receiver interference density (dBm/Hz) -165.7
(16) Total noise plus interference density = 10 log (10\^(( (13) + (14))/10) +
10\^((15)/10)) (dBm/Hz) -164.0
(18) Effective noise power = (16) + 10 log((3c)) (dBm) -98.2
(19) Required SNR (dB) 5
(20) Receiver implementation margin (dB) 2
(21) H-ARQ gain (dB) or Process gain for UMTS\ 25 Note: Only applicable if
HARQ is not considered in LLS
(22) Receiver sensitivity = (18) + (19) + (20) -- (21) (dBm) -116.2
(22bis) MCL = (3bis) - (22) + (5) + (11bis) (dB) 139.2
* * *
###### ## Annex \: Simulation results for baseline coverage performance
The simulation results for baseline coverage performance can be found in the
attached document \"B_SimulationResults_baseline.zip\".
#