# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides descriptions of use cases and solutions with
regard to enhancement of Radio Access Network (RAN) slicing for NR.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"5G Network Resource Model (NRM)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 General
_The present document is organized as follows:_
\- Clause 5 is to address the objective of enabling UE fast access to the cell
supporting the intended slice. Furthermore, clause 5.1 studies on s _lice
based cell (re)selection under network control and_ clause 5.2 studies on s
_lice based RACH configuration_
\- Clause 6 is to address the objective of supporting service continuity
\- Clause 7 provides the conclusions
# 5 Study mechanisms to enable UE fast access to the cell supporting the
intended slice
## 5.1 Slice based cell (re)selection under network control
### 5.1.1 Scenario and issue description
**General description for the scenario:**
\- Multiple and different slices can be supported on different frequencies
\- Multiple and different slices can be supported on the same frequency in
different regions
For each scenario we study both IDLE and INACTIVE and determine whether there
is need for solutions. Connected mode will also be considered but with a lower
priority.
Figure 5.1.1-1: Examples for slice deployment scenarios
In the examples shown in Figure 5.1.1-1, slice 1 refers to e.g., eMBB, and
slice 2 refers to e.g., URLLC. \"Cell X\" in the figures represent a set of
cells.
Geographical Location 1 is deployed in the factory or hospital. In this
location, F1 supports slice 1 (e.g., eMBB), while F2 supports both slice 1 and
slice 2 (e.g. eMBB and URLLC).
Geographical Location 2 is the public area. F1 and F2 all supporting slice 1
(e.g., eMBB) for smart phone users, no slice 2 (e.g., URLLC) is supported in
Geographical Location 2. And F2 is deployed as hotspot to provide wideband
access.
Geographical Location 3 illustrates that different slices are supported on
different frequencies. F1 only supports slice 1 and F2 only supports slice 2.
Geographical Location 4 illustrates a typical scenario that slices are
available via multiple frequencies. And one or a set of frequencies are
preferred for certain slice, e.g. F1 is preferred for slice 2 and F2 is
preferred for slice 1 in Geographical Location 4.
eMBB and URLLC slices are used only as an example of various slices. The
deployment of any slice on any frequency band is up to network implementation.
RAN2 common understanding is that intended slice is based on the information
AS receives from NAS for the particular use case. This may be different in
different cases:
\- In case of cell selection and reselection, the intended slice means the
allowed or requested S-NSSAI(s).
\- For the initial registration, and requesting new S-NSSAI(s): intended
slices = Requested S-NSSAI(s)
\- For idle-mode mobility: intended slices = allowed S-NSSAI(s)
\- In case of MO traffic, the intended slice means the S-NSSAI associated with
MO traffic based on indication from NAS to AS. For MO service, UE is aware of
the intended slice.
\- In case of MT traffic, UE is unaware of the slice for the paged service in
current NR specification.
The following issues are studied:
**Issue 1: The UE is unaware of the slices supported on different cells or
frequencies, which prevents UE from (re)select to the cell or frequency
supporting the intended slice.**
**Issue 2: Dedicated priorities would not be available to the UE prior to
first RRC connection establishment and only remain valid before T320 expires
upon entering IDLE mode. In addition, dedicated priorities are discarded each
time when UE entering CONNECTED mode and need to be configured again before UE
leaving CONNECTED mode.**
**Issue 3: Operator may require different frequency priority configurations
for the specific slice in different areas, however the dedicated priority
always overwrites the broadcast priorities if configured.**
**Issue 4: If the serving cell is unable to support the requested slices, the
serving cell may need to perform handover to a cell supporting the requested
slices or release the RRC connection. That may increase control plane
signalling overhead as well as long control plane latency for the UE to access
the network.**
### 5.1.2 Solutions
The following solutions are studied:
**Solution 1: Legacy dedicated priority via _RRCRelease_ message.**
Solution 1 (i.e., Legacy dedicated priority via _RRCRelease_ message) cannot
address issue 2 and issue 3.
**Solution 2: Rel-15 mechanisms such as HO, CA, DC and redirection can be used
to access the intended slice in different cell.**
Solution 2 is legacy solution. With solution 2, the UE is still unaware of the
slices supported in different cell or frequencies and the HO, CA, DC and
redirection can be used to compensate for such loss with increased signalling
overhead and latency. HO, CA, DC, redirection are applicable only for
connected mode UE.
There is no complexity to support solution 2.
**Solution 3: Slice related information for cell selection, e.g., the
supported slice info of serving cell and neighboring cells, is provided in the
system information.**
Solution 3 can address issue 1, issue 2 and issue 4. There is benefit to
broadcast slice related cell selection info in SIB.
The concerns on security and SIB payload size for broadcasting slice related
cell selection info need to be resolved in WI phase (e.g., by providing only
SST, on-demand SIB, SIB segmentation, slice grouping or slice associated UAC
information).
For cell selection scenario, RAN2 may discuss during WI whether to broadcast
supported slice of serving cell in SI message and how to solve SIB1 concerns.
The solution of adding the intended slice for MT access in slice specific cell
selection is not pursued.
**Solution 4: Slice related information for cell reselection is provided in
the system information or _RRCRelease_ message.**
Solution 4 can address the issue 1, issue 2, issue 3 and issue 4. There is
benefit to broadcast slice related cell reselection info in SIB. The slice
info (with similar information as agreed slice info in SI message) can be
added in RRC release message. Details can be discussed in WI phase.
The concerns on security and SIB payload size for broadcasting slice related
cell reselection info need to be resolved in WI phase (e.g., providing only
SST, on-demand SIB, SIB segmentation, slice grouping or slice associated UAC
information).
To assist cell reselection, RAN can broadcast the supported slice info of the
current cell and neighbour cells, and cell reselection priority per slice. The
slice info may be: providing only SST, on-demand SIB, SIB segmentation, slice
grouping (if any), or slice associated UAC information where other solutions
are not precluded. Details can be discussed in WI phase. And, how to ensure UE
doesn\'t lose coverage due to slice prioritization can be considered in WI
phase.
The solution of adding the intended slice for MT access in slice specific cell
reselection is not pursued.
Slice group is supported for both solution 3 and solution 4. Whether to define
a new grouping mechanism or reusing UAC access category is left to WI phase.
## 5.2 Slice based RACH configuration
### 5.2.1 Scenario and issue description
The intentions for slice based RACH configuration are as follows:
**Intention 1: RACH resource isolation. From marketing point of view, some of
the industrial customers have the requirement for access resource isolation,
in order to provide guaranteed RA resources for their sensitive slices.**
**Intention 2: Slice access prioritization. In R15 and R16, all slices are
sharing the same RA resources and cannot be differentiated by network side.
But some slices may need to be prioritized during the RA procedure.**
### 5.2.2 Solutions
The following solutions are studied:
**Solution 1: Slice-specific separate RACH resources pool can be configured
per slice or per slice group, in addition to the existing common RACH
resources.**
The association between slices and slice-specific RACH resources can be
configured and provided to UE in SIB and dedicated signalling. Separated PRACH
configuration (e.g., transmission occasions of time-frequency domain and
preambles) can be configured for slice or slice group. Separated PRACH
configuration for slices does not imply PHY layer impacts.
**Solution 2: Slice-specific RACH parameters prioritization can be configured
per slice or per slice group.**
Existing RACH parameters prioritization (i.e., _scalingFactorBI_ and
_powerRampingStepHighPriority_) can be supported as baseline for slices-
specific RACH parameter prioritization.
Slice group is supported for solution 1 and solution 2. Whether to define a
new grouping mechanism or reusing UAC access category is left to WI phase.
Slice based RACH configuration can be applied to idle and inactive UE.
Solution 1 and Solution 2 can work independently in a complementary way.
Neither solution 1 nor solution 2 may not be applicable to all possible
slices.
The following open issues may be considered in WI phase:
a) For slice specific RACH, how to perform RACH type selection (e.g., 2-step
and 4-step).
b) The fallback mechanism, e.g., whether to support 2 step slice-based RACH
fallback to 4-step slice-based or common RACH.
c) The collision in case that slice-specific RA prioritization is configured
together with legacy RA prioritization (e.g., MPS and MCS UEs).
# 6 Study necessity and mechanisms to support service continuity
## 6.1 Scenario and issue description
The following two scenarios are considered to support service continuity.
**Scenario 1: Slice resource shortage in case of Intra-RA mobility and Inter-
RA mobility**
Figure 6.1-1: Service interruption due to slice resource shortage
As shown by Figure 6.1-1, the UE\'s ongoing slice(s) is/are supported by both
the source and the target NG-RAN node. At the time of handover, the target
node fails to accept the UE with at least one of the ongoing S-NSSAIs due to
e.g. high slice-related load at the target node. Under such circumstance, the
service(s) for failed ongoing slice(s) is/are interrupted for the UE.
It should be noted that remapping of traffic into the resource pool used by
other slices requires a pre-configured policy allowing such action. The
remapping should avoid overloading the resource pool of the target slice. Any
solution to this issue should comply with the RRM policy model defined in TS
28.541 [2] and be validated by SA5.
How to support the slice recovery (i.e., re-mapping of remapped slice to on-
going slice) when the NG-RAN node recovers enough resources to serve the on-
going slice(s) will be discussed in normative phase.
**Scenario2: Non-supported slice in case of Inter-RA mobility**
Figure 6.1-2: Service interruption due to slice not supported
As shown by Figure 6.1-2, the UE is moving towards an area that does not
support at least one of UE\'s ongoing slices. The target node fails to accept
the UE with at least one of the ongoing S-NSSAIs. Under such circumstance, the
service(s) for failed ongoing slice(s) is/are interrupted for the UE.
This scenario is only valid if there is a specific SLAs, where the original
slice is required to be available in a specific geographical area (TA/RA) and
where services used on the original slice are also required to have continuity
if moving outside the geographical area. It is also assumed that new PDU
sessions of the same slice are not initiated in the new geographical area
i.e., the SLA applies to connected mode mobility only.
**Scenario 3: Moving back for slice resource shortage in case of Intra-RA
mobility and Inter-RA mobility**
Figure 6.1-3: Moving back scenario due to slice resource shortage
This is a continuation scenario of scenario 1. As shown by Figure 6.1-3, the
UE\'s ongoing slice(s) is/are supported by both the source and the target NG-
RAN node. At the time of handover, the source node may serve at least one of
the S-NSSAIs with degraded performance, or already rejects at least one of the
S-NSSAIs, due to e.g., high slice-related load at the source node. Meanwhile
the target node can fully support these S-NSSAIs.
**Scenario 4: Moving back for non-supported slice in case of Inter-RA
mobility**
Figure 6.1-4: Moving back scenario due to slice not supported
This is a continuation scenario of scenario 2. As shown by Figure 6.1-4, at
the time of handover, the source node may serve the UE with at least one of
the S-NSSAIs not supported by the target node. The UE is moving towards an
area that supports at least one of UE\'s these slices.
**Scenario 5: Slice resource shortage for MR-DC**
Figure 6.1-5: Service interruption due to slice resource shortage in SN
As shown by Figure 6.1-5, the UE\'s ongoing slice(s) is/are supported by both
the MN and the SN. However, in case of SN addition or modification procedure,
the SN fails to accept the UE with at least one of the ongoing S-NSSAIs due to
e.g., high slice-related load at the SN. Under such circumstance, the services
associated with these ongoing slices may be interrupted at the SN side.
**Scenario 6: Slice overload in RAN node in absence of mobility**
It is possible that resource shortage happens for a slice 1 as in scenario 1.
In this case, some ongoing PDU sessions associated to this slice 1 may be
offered degraded service even in the absence of mobility.
It is also possible that after taking an action to avoid resource shortage in
slice 1, the resource shortage is resolved while the UE is still in the cell.
In that case, any action taken can be reversed.
## 6.2 Solutions
NOTE: Feasibility of solutions in 6.2.1, 6.2.2.1 and 6.2.4.1 at system level
requires further work involving both RAN3 and SA2.
### 6.2.1 Re-mapping decision in NG-RAN node
In solutions where the target NG-RAN node decides the re-mapping at incoming
handover, the target NG-RAN node should be aware of the re-mapping policy for
the involved PDU session. The following options are available:
#### 6.2.1.1 Slice Re-mapping policy generation
##### 6.2.1.1.1 Slice Re-mapping policy configured by OAM
**Configuration in target NG-RAN node**
This option assumes that the remapping policy is rather static because it
should have been validated by the tenant or the operator.
Therefore, the NG-RAN node is configured in advance with the re-mapping policy
by the OAM.
In this option, the granularity of the re-mapping policy is per slice i.e. for
each supported S-NSSAI, the target NG-RAN node is configured with a list of
possible re-mapped S-NSSAI(s) as follows:
\- S-NSSAI 1 \<> re-mapped list (S-NSSAI 10, S-NSSAI 11);
\- S-NSSAI 2 \<> re-mapped list (S-NSSAI 12, S-NSSAI 13).
##### 6.2.1.1.2 Slice Re-mapping policy configured by CN (during NG setup)
**Signaling in NG Setup Response**
The NG-RAN node has received in advance the re-mapping policy in the NG Setup
Response message (or any update in the AMF configuration Update message) from
the CN.
In this option the granularity of the re-mapping policy is the slice i.e. for
each S-NSSAI supported by the target NG-RAN node, the CN includes in the NG
Setup Response (respectively AMF Configuration Update) message an associated
list of possible re-mapped S-NSSAI(s).
##### 6.2.1.1.3 Slice Re-mapping policy configured by CN (during PDU session
setup)
**Signaling in NG Handover Request**
At the time of handover, the CN includes in the NG Handover Request message
the current PDU Session, the associated S-NSSAI and also the list of
S-NSSAI(s) to which this PDU session can be re-mapped.
In this option the granularity of the re-mapping policy can be either:
\- Per PDU session (using same principles as slice association in PDU Session
Setup);
\- Per UE: even though signaled for the involved PDU session, the choice of
possible re-mapped slices for a given slice is a general policy for the UE.
Example of per UE policy:
UE 1, any PDU session of S-NSSAI 1 \<> re-mapped list (S-NSSAI 10, S-NSSAI 11)
UE 2, any PDU session of S-NSSAI 1 \<> re-mapped list (S-NSSAI 12, S-NSSAI 13)
Example of per PDU session policy:
UE 1, PDU Session 1, S-NSSAI 1 \<> re-mapped list (S-NSSAI 10, S-NSSAI 11)
UE 1, PDU Session 2, S-NSSAI 1 \<> re-mapped list (S-NSSAI 12, S-NSSAI 13)
UE 2, PDU Session 3, S-NSSAI 1 \<> re-mapped list (S-NSSAI 14, S-NSSAI 15)
**Signaling from Source NG-RAN node**
When the PDU session is created in the source NG-RAN node, the CN includes in
the NGAP PDU Session Resource Setup Request message (or the Initial Context
Setup Request message or the NG Handover Request message) the S-NSSAI
associated with the PDU session and also the list of S-NSSAI(s) to which this
PDU session can be re-mapped.
At the time of subsequent Xn handover, the source NG-RAN node includes in the
Xn Handover Request message the current PDU Session, the associated S-NSSAI
and also the list of S-NSSAI(s) to which this PDU session can be mapped.
In this option the granularity of the re-mapping policy can be either:
\- Per PDU session (using same principles as slice association in PDU Session
Setup)
\- Per UE: even though signaled for the involved PDU session, the choice of
possible re-mapped slices for a given slice is a general policy for the UE.
The above slice-remapping principle applicable to the handover case can be
applied to MR-DC case.
#### 6.2.1.2 Slice Re-mapping Message Sequence Charts
##### 6.2.1.2.1 Slice Re-mapping for mobility case
###### 6.2.1.2.1.1 Slice Remapping decision in target gNB at Xn based handover
Figure 6.2.1.2.1.1-1: Slice re-mapping/fallback determined by the T-gNB
1\. The S-gNB sends the _HANDOVER REQUEST_ message to the T-gNB.
2\. If the UE\'s ongoing slice(s) is rejected in the target gNB, based on the
slice re-mapping policy described in clause 6.2.1, the T-gNB makes the slice
re-mapping/fallback decision. The T-gNB may send the slice re-mapping/fallback
decision in the HANDOVER REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE message to the S-gNB.
3\. The T-gNB shall send the slice re-mapping/fallback decision to the AMF
through the _PATH SWITCH REQUEST_ message.
4\. The AMF responds the _PATH SWITCH REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE_ message. The AMF
may reject the PDU sessions in the _PDU Session Resource Released List_ IE.
###### 6.2.1.2.1.2 Slice Remapping decision in target gNB at NG based handover
Figure 6.2.1.2.1.2-1: Slice re-mapping/fallback determined by the T-gNB
1\. The S-gNB sends the _HANDOVER REQUIRED_ message to the AMF.
2\. The AMF sends the _HANDOVER REQUEST_ message to the T-gNB.
3\. If the UE\'s ongoing slice(s) is rejected in the target gNB, based on the
slice re-mapping policy described in clause 6.2.1, the T-gNB shall include the
re-mapped/fallback decision in the _HANDOVER REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE_ message to
the AMF.
4\. The AMF may send the slice re-mapping/fallback decision to the S-gNB
through the _HANDOVER COMMAND_ message.
###### 6.2.1.2.1.3 Slice Remapping decision in 5GC and target gNB at NG based
handover
Figure 6.2.1.2.1.3-1: Slice re-mapping/fallback determined by the AMF and
T-gNB
1\. The S-gNB sends the HANDOVER REQUIRED message to the AMF.
2\. If the UE\'s ongoing slice(s) is not supported by the T-gNB, the AMF may
make the initial slice re-mapping/fallback decision and include the decision
in the HANDOVER REQUEST message to the T-gNB.
3\. If the UE\'s ongoing or re-mapped/fallback slice(s) is rejected in the
target gNB, based on the slice re-mapping policy described in clause 6.2.1,
the T-gNB shall include the further re-mapped/fallback decision in the
HANDOVER REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE message to the AMF.
4\. The AMF may send the slice re-mapping/fallback decision to the S-gNB
through the HANDOVER COMMAND message.
###### 6.2.1.2.1.4 5GC Solution based on SSC-mode 3
The call flow below uses SSC mode 3 in 5GC as the service continuity solution:
Figure 6.2.1.2.1.4-1 Re-mapping based on SSC mode 3
**Step 0** : NG-RAN nodes have been configured with slice re-mapping slice 10
to 11.
**Step1** : 5GC has sent the UE Allowed NSSAI to the serving NG-RAN node and
to the UE per existing procedures.
**Step 2** : UE has ongoing PDU session 1 of slice 10.
**Step 3** : Source NG-RAN triggers Handover to target NG-RAN. The target NG-
RAN node 2 informs during the HO procedure the source NG-RAN node 1 that it
accepts the PDU session 1 of slice 10 temporarily due to slice re-mapping
action.
**Step 4** : at handover completion, the target NG-RAN indicates to 5GC in
Path Switch Request that PDU session 1 of slice 10 needs to be terminated and
a new PDU session is to be setup with slice 11.
**Step 5** : The UE performs the post-handover registration (as Source and
Target NG RAN nodes have different slice support, they do not belong to the
same registration area for the UE). Because 5GC received (end slice 10) at
step 4, the 5GC still includes the slice 10 in the Allowed NSSAI towards the
UE at this step (the slice is indeed still temporarily available until it
receives from 5GC notification of the final release of PDU session 1 of slice
10 at step 9).
**Step 6** : In reaction to step 4, the 5GC triggers towards the UE the NAS
PDU Session Modification Command to invoke SSC mode 3. The (end slice 10, new
11) may be included towards the UE to prompt the UE to setup the new PDU
session 2 with slice 11 even if the URSP in the UE would indicate slice 10 as
higher priority.
**Step 7** : the UE triggers the setup of PDU session 2 with slice 11
according to SSC mode 3 procedure as per existing procedures described in TS
23.502 [3], clause 4.3.2.2.1.
**Step 8** : at the expiry of SSC mode 3 timer, the 5GC triggers the release
of the PDU session 1 of slice 10 according to SSC mode 3 procedures (existing
procedures described in TS 23.502 [3], clause 4.3.2.2.1). The 5GC sends a
final the UCU (UE Configuration Update) message in order to update the Allowed
NSSAI towards the NG-RAN and the UE. In this example, the new Allowed NSSAI is
slice 11.
##### 6.2.1.2.2 Slice Remapping for non-mobility case
###### 6.2.1.2.2.1 Slice Remapping decision in SN for MR-DC case
Figure 6.2.1.2.2.1-1: Slice re-mapping/fallback determined by the SN
This flow chart applies to the scenario of resource shortage only.
1\. The MN sends the _SN Addition Request_ message to the SN.
2\. If the UE\'s ongoing slice(s) is rejected by the SN, based on the slice
re-mapping policy described in clause 6.2.1, the SN makes the slice re-
mapping/fallback decision. The SN shall include the slice re-mapping/fallback
decision in the _SN Addition Request Acknowledge_ message to the MN.
3\. The MN may send the slice re-mapping/fallback decision to the AMF through
the _PDU Session Modification Indication_ message.
4\. The AMF responds the _PDU Session Modification Confirmation_ message.
###### 6.2.1.2.2.2 Slice Remapping decision in MN for MR-DC case
Figure 6.2.1.2.2.2-1: Slice re-mapping/fallback determined by the MN
This flow chart applies to the scenario of resource shortage only.
1\. The MN makes the slice re-mapping/fallback decision and include the
decision in the _SN Addition Request_ message to the SN.
2\. The SN confirms the slice re-mapping/fallback decision made by the MN in
the _SN Addition Request_ _Acknowledge_ message.
3\. The MN may send the slice re-mapping/fallback decision to the AMF through
the _PDU Session Modification Indication_ message.
4\. The AMF responds the _PDU Session Modification Confirmation_ message.
###### 6.2.1.2.2.3 Slice Remapping Solution for Scenario 6
At the same time the NG-RAN node may notice that another slice 2 which is not
overloaded has resources available and is still compatible with the SLA of
slice 1.
In short, there is a potential that some unloaded but \"good enough or
better\" alternative slices in the RAN could be used for the subscriber to
continue to receive service.
### 6.2.2 Partially slice re-mapping in NG-RAN
#### 6.2.2.1 Candidate solutions with/without CN involvement
Figure 6.2.2.1-1: Slice re-mapping solutions: (a) with CN impact; (b) without
CN impact
This solution is applicable to scenario 2, where there are two possible slice
re-mapping solutions depending on whether the CN is involved.
Figure 6.2.4-1 (a) shows the re-mapping solution where both the RAN and CN
parts are involved. In this case, the CN procedure is involved.
Figure 6.2.4-1 (b) shows the re-mapping solution where the CN pat of the slice
is not changed while the RAN part of the slice is remapped. The UL/DL traffics
are relayed between the S-gNB and the T-gNB via the Xn tunnel.
### 6.2.3 Resource management in NG-RAN node
#### 6.2.3.1 Configuration Based Solution
The solution builds on the resource modelling described in TS 28.541 [2]. The
following analysis is provided for the scenario 1 and scenario 2 respectively
\- Scenario 1: Slice resource shortage in case of Intra-RA mobility and Inter-
RA mobility
As specified in TS 28.541 [2], the slice re-mapping between different S-NSSAIs
can be achieved via the prioritized resource modeling. For example, suppose
UE\'s ongoing slice is S-NSSAI 1 configured with _rRMPolicyMaxRatio_ policy,
which can use at least one of the shared resources, prioritized resources and
dedicated resources. If the dedicated resources are not available, it can use
other un-used prioritized and shared resources.
But the following needs to be further studied, e.g., for the S-NSSAI 1,
\- it can explicitly use resources belonging to which S-NSSAIs;
\- it can use the dedicated but not used resources of other S-NSSAIs;
\- it can preempt the used prioritized and/or shared resources from other
S-NSSAIs.
In this case, further involvement with SA5 is required.
\- Scenario 2: Non-supported slice in case of Inter-RA mobility
In this case, if the T-gNB does not support certain S-NSSAIs, these S-NSSAIs
will not be included in the _RRMPolicyMemberList_ , thus no resource will be
planned by the T-gNB, as specified in TS 28.541 [2].
For example, suppose UE\'s ongoing slice is S-NSSAI 1, it will not be included
in the _RRMPolicyMemberList_ of the T-gNB. Thus the re-mapping of S-NSSAI 1 to
the supported S-NSSAI(s) of T-gNB is not supported.
In this case, slice re-mapping is not supported yet by the prioritized
resource modeling defined in SA5. And further involvement with SA5 is
required.
#### 6.2.3.2 Slice resource re-partitioning
This solution is applicable to scenario 1. In this solution, the resource
limits for a particular slice in the RAN are relaxed (possibly for a limited
time period). This is applicable for resource types which have been hard-
partitioned between slices, or where a limit per slice has been defined
according to the SLA. For example, such an approach could be applied
individually (or jointly) to the following:
\- spectrum resource (e.g. slots, beams, carriers etc);
\- transport resources (e.g. backhaul capacity);
\- hardware resources (e.g. specific processors, processing load, intra-RAN
logical nodes such as a gNB-CU-UP).
To solve this problem, the system can allow a slice to use another slice\'s
resources on a temporary basis i.e. making the partition soft. The RAN may
allow such temporary overflow while keeping some form of accounting of
resources used which may be used to modify the existing SLA, or provide
reporting.
Re-partitioning policy may be configured in the RAN.
The solution may have impacts in metric collection and OAM requirements, but
does not impact the core network or the UE.
#### 6.2.3.3 Multi-carrier radio resource sharing
This solution is applicable to scenario 1. In this solution, it is assumed
that radio resources are primarily assigned to a slice (or slice sets) on a
frequency, or cell, basis. For example, a RAN node may host two layers as
shown below:
Figure 6.2.3.3-1: RAN node supporting two layers
The solution addresses temporary resource shortage in one cell as per scenario
1, and where the RAN node hosts another cell with different frequency and
overlapping coverage where the same slice is available.
In above, this could be the case for slice 1 and cell 1/F2 (or also slice 1
and cell 2/F1).
The solution consists of setting up DC or CA using user plane resources of F1
(or F2), for some or all UEs with slice1 PDU sessions. This action can be
wholly decided by the RAN node, without referring to the CN or other nodes.
This solution can be seen as fallback planning in the RAN.
### 6.2.4 Slice Remapping decision in 5GC
This solution is applicable for scenario 2, when a UE with bearers associated
to a given slice, e.g. S-NSSAI1, wants to be handed over to a target cell and
where S-NSSAI1 is not supported in the target cell. It is also applicable for
scenario 4, when the UE later returns to the cell supporting the slice. At NG
based HO, the AMF will detect that the target cell is not supporting S-NSSAI1
or that the Allowed NSSAI in the target cell for the UE does not include
S-NSSAI1. The 5GC will then decide if the PDU sessions associated to S-NSSAI1
can be re-mapped to another slice. The new S-NSSAI is signalled with the HO
Request, using legacy signalling, and there is no impact to the target gNB.
When Xn HO can be used, but the target gNB does not support all slices of an
UE, the source gNB will use NG based HO instead, so that 5GC may re-map the
slice.
At the end of the HO the UE will be updated with the new Allowed NSSAI through
legacy NAS procedures. The original slice will be included in the Rejected
NSSAI, and the UE will not be allowed to access it as long as it stays in the
current RA. Once the UE returns to the old RA, it may request to add the
original slice to the Allowed NSSAI, and the PDU sessions may be re-assigned
to the original S-NSSAI1.
The granularity of slice remapping in this solution is per PDU session. The
re-mapping decision can be based on slice awareness in availability in
registration area, operator policy for slice re-mapping as well as the
subscription of the UE.
**System Impact**
No impact on signalling protocols. gNB should be aware that re-mapping may be
used, and select NG based HO when needed.
#### 6.2.4.1 Slice Remapping decision in 5GC at NG based handover
Figure 6.2.4.1-1: Slice re-mapping/fallback determined by the AMF
1\. The S-gNB sends the _HANDOVER REQUIRED_ message to the AMF.
2\. If the UE\'s ongoing slice(s) is not supported by the T-gNB, the AMF may
make the slice re-mapping/fallback decision and include the decision in the
_HANDOVER REQUEST_ message to the T-gNB.
3\. The T-gNB responds to the AMF through the HANDOVER REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE
message.
4\. The AMF may send the slice re-mapping/fallback decision to the S-gNB
through the _HANDOVER COMMAND_ message.
## 6.3 Solution evaluation
The evaluation criteria are as follows:
**\- RAN impact**
**The point here is to analyze** RAN impact of the solution (standardization
and node behaviour), for example what signalling procedures may be affected
and at what extent.
**\- Core impact**
**The point here is to analyze Core impact of the solution** (standardization
and node behaviour)**, for example what signalling procedures may be affected
and at what extent. Such analysis needs to be carried out together with SA2
and CT groups.**
**\- OAM impact**
The point here is to **analyze** operator and maintenance effort, for example
how many network elements (e,g. gNB, NF) should be configured and managed by
OAM**. Such analysis may need to involve SA5.**
**\- UE Impact**
**This is to analyse the impact at NAS and AS level on the UE. Such analysis
needs to be carried out together with RAN2, SA2 and CT groups.**
**\- Effectiveness of solution**
The point here is to analyse the effectiveness after applying the solution,
for example the UE\'s service experience after applying the solution.
**\- Applicable scenarios**
The point here is to list the applicable scenarios which the corresponding
solution targets.
Table 6.3-1: Evaluation of the solutions
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | RAN | Core | OAM | UE | Eff | Appli | | | Crite | i | i | i | i | ectiv | cable | | | ria**| mpact | mpact | mpact | mpact | eness | scen | | | | | | | | | arios | | | ** | | | | | | | | | Solut | | | | | | | | | ion** | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | **6 | ** | RAN | CN is | OAM |** UE | Sol | 1, 2, | | .2.1: | 6.2.1 | is | confi | confi | needs | ution | 3, 4, | | Re-ma | .1.1: | confi | gured | gures | to be | at | 5, 6 | | pping | P | gured | with | slice | re | the | | | dec | olicy | with | re-ma | re-ma | confi | cost | | | ision | confi | re-ma | pping | pping | gured | of | | | in | gured | pping | p | p | at | CN, | | | N | by | p | olicy | olicy | NAS | OAM, | | | G-RAN | OAM**| olicy | from | to | level | RAN | | | n | | from | the | the | to | and | | | ode** | | the | OAM. | NG | asso | UE | | | | | OAM. | | -RAN, | ciate | im | | | | | | FFS | CN | an | pact. | | | | | FFS | if | (if | on | | | | | | if | the | ve | going | | | | | | RAN | CN | rific | PDU | | | | | | needs | needs | ation | Se | | | | | | to | to be | is | ssion | | | | | | s | not | nee | to a | | | | | | ignal | ified | ded). | new | | | | | | the | in | | S-NSS | | | | | | slice | case | | AI.**| | | | | | rema | of | | | | | | | | pping | any | |** S**| | | | | | dec | s | |_tudy | | | | | | ision | lice- | | in | | | | | | to | remap | | SA2 | | | | | | CN. | ping, | | is | | | | | | | e.g. | | ne | | | | | | | for | | eded_ | | | | | | | cha | | **.**| | | | | | | rging | | | | | | | | | pur | | | | | | | | | pose. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | CN | | | | | | | | |** re | | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | | gures | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | NAS | | | | | | | | | signa | | | | | | | | | lling | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | asso | | | | | | | | | ciate | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | going | | | | | | | | | PDU | | | | | | | | | Se | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | to a | | | | | | | | | new | | | | | | | | | S-NSS | | | | | | | | | AI.**| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |** S**| | | | | | | | |_tudy | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | SA2 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | ne | | | | | | | | | eded_ | | | | | | | | | **.**| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | How | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | slice | | | | | | | | | rema | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | done | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | 5GC | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | pe | | | | | | | | | nding | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | SA2. | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | ** | RAN | CN is | OAM |** UE | Sol | 1, 2, | | | 6.2.1 | is | confi | confi | needs | ution | 3, 4, | | | .1.2/ | sign | gured | gures | to be | at | 5, 6 | | | 6.2.1 | alled | with | slice | re | the | | | | .1.3: | with | rema | re-ma | confi | cost | | | | P | the | pping | pping | gured | of | | | | olicy | rema | p | p | at | CN, | | | | confi | pping | olicy | olicy | NAS | OAM, | | | | gured | p | from | to | level | RAN | | | | by | olicy | the | the | to | and | | | | CN**| from | OAM, | CN. | asso | UE | | | | | C | and | | ciate | im | | | | | N/the | si | | an | pact. | | | | | s | gnals | | on | | | | | | ource | the | | going | | | | | | RAN | re-ma | | PDU | | | | | | node. | pping | | Se | | | | | | | p | | ssion | | | | | | FFS | olicy | | to a | | | | | | if | to | | new | | | | | | RAN | the | | S-NSS | | | | | | needs | NG | | AI.** | | | | | | to | -RAN. | | | | | | | | s | | | **S** | | | | | | ignal | FFS | | _tudy | | | | | | the | if | | in | | | | | | slice | the | | SA2 | | | | | | rema | CN | | is | | | | | | pping | needs | | nee | | | | | | dec | to be | | ded_. | | | | | | ision | not | | | | | | | | to | ified | | | | | | | | CN. | in | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | any | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | lice- | | | | | | | | | remap | | | | | | | | | ping, | | | | | | | | | e.g. | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | cha | | | | | | | | | rging | | | | | | | | | pur | | | | | | | | | pose. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | CN | | | | | | | | | **re | | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | | gures | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | NAS | | | | | | | | | signa | | | | | | | | | lling | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | asso | | | | | | | | | ciate | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | going | | | | | | | | | PDU | | | | | | | | | Se | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | to a | | | | | | | | | new | | | | | | | | | S-NSS | | | | | | | | | AI.** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | **S** | | | | | | | | | _tudy | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | SA2 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | ne | | | | | | | | | eded_ | | | | | | | | | **.** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | How | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | slice | | | | | | | | | rema | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | done | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | 5GC | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | pe | | | | | | | | | nding | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | SA2. | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | **6\. | RAN | CN is | OAM | The | Sol | 2, 4 | | | 2.1.2 | is | confi | confi | u | ution | | | | .1.4: | sign | gured | gures | pdate | with | | | | 5GC | alled | with | slice | of | OAM, | | | | Sol | with | rema | re-ma | \"SSC | CN, | | | | ution | the | pping | pping | -mode | RAN | | | | based | rema | p | p | 3\". | and | | | | on | pping | olicy | olicy | | UE | | | | SSC | p | from | to |** F | im | | | | -mode | olicy | the | the | easib | pact. | | | | 3**| from | OAM, | RAN | ility | Req | | | | | C | and | if | would | uired | | | | | N/the | si | this | re | proce | | | | | s | gnals | o | quire | dures | | | | | ource | the | ption | SA2 | in UE | | | | | RAN | re-ma | is | stu | and | | | | | node | pping | used. | dy**. | CN | | | | | if | p | | | are | | | | | this | olicy | | | not | | | | | o | to | | | suppo | | | | | ption | the | | | rted. | | | | | is | N | | | | | | | | used. | G-RAN | | | **F | | | | | | if | | | easib | | | | | It | this | | | ility | | | | | req | o | | | would | | | | | uires | ption | | | re | | | | | su | is | | | quire | | | | | pport | used. | | | SA2 | | | | | of | It | | | stu | | | | | up | req | | | dy.** | | | | | dated | uires | | | | | | | | \"SSC | mo | | | | | | | | -mode | dific | | | | | | | | 3\", | ation | | | | | | | | e.g., | of | | | | | | | | the | the | | | | | | | | t | \"SSC | | | | | | | | arget | mode | | | | | | | | node | 3\" | | | | | | | | needs | proc | | | | | | | | to | edure | | | | | | | | t | in | | | | | | | | empor | CN. | | | | | | | | arily | | | | | | | | | a | **F | | | | | | | | ccept | easib | | | | | | | | the | ility | | | | | | | | PDU | would | | | | | | | | se | re | | | | | | | | ssion | quire | | | | | | | | even | SA2 | | | | | | | | if | stu | | | | | | | | slice | dy.** | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | supp | | | | | | | | | orted | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | cell. | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **6 |** Sol | Same | Same | Same | Same | Same | Same | | .2.2: | ution | as | as | as | as | as | as | | Part | with | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | | ially | CN | .1.2/ | .1.2/ | .1.2/ | .1.2/ | .1.2/ | .1.2/ | | slice | inv | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | | re-ma | olvem | .1.3: | .1.3: | .1.3: | .1.3: | .1.3: | .1.3: | | pping | ent**| P | P | P | P | P | P | | in | | olicy | olicy | olicy | olicy | olicy | olicy | | NG- | | confi | confi | confi | confi | confi | confi | | RAN** | | gured | gured | gured | gured | gured | gured | | | | by CN | by CN | by CN | by CN | by CN | by CN | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | **Sol | RAN | New | OAM | New | Sol | 2, 4 | | | ution | is | fun | confi | fun | ution | | | | wi | confi | ction | gures | ction | at | | | | thout | gured | ality | slice | ality | the | | | | CN | with | to | re-ma | to | cost | | | | inv | re-ma | su | pping | su | of | | | | olvem | pping | pport | p | pport | CN, | | | | ent** | p | the | olicy | the | OAM, | | | | | olicy | new | to | new | RAN | | | | | from | han | the | han | and | | | | | the | dover | NG | dover | UE | | | | | OAM. | case, | -RAN. | case, | im | | | | | | where | | where | pact. | | | | | New | the | | the | | | | | | fun | UE is | | UE is | F | | | | | ction | conn | | conn | easib | | | | | ality | ected | | ected | ility | | | | | to | to | | to | would | | | | | su | t | | t | re | | | | | pport | arget | | arget | quire | | | | | sem | but | | but | SA2 | | | | | i-han | s | | s | s | | | | | dover | ource | | ource | tudy. | | | | | case. | main | | main | | | | | | | tains | | tains | | | | | | New | UE | | UE | | | | | | beha | signa | | signa | | | | | | viour | lling | | lling | | | | | | in | conne | | conne | | | | | | new | ction | | ction | | | | | | gNB | with | | with | | | | | | ( | CN. | | CN. | | | | | | allow | | | | | | | | | usage | It is | | RA | | | | | | by | FFS | | proc | | | | | | non | how | | edure | | | | | | -supp | the | | and | | | | | | orted | CN | | c | | | | | | slice | ha | | onsis | | | | | | even | ndles | | tency | | | | | | t | RA | | be | | | | | | hough | u | | tween | | | | | | gNB | pdate | | al | | | | | | does | from | | lowed | | | | | | not | UE. | | S- | | | | | | su | | | NSSAI | | | | | | pport | | | in | | | | | | sl | | | new | | | | | | ice). | | | RA | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | Req | | | FFS. | | | | | | uires | | | | | | | | | Xn | | | **S** | | | | | | su | | | _tudy | | | | | | pport | | | in | | | | | | from | | | SA2 | | | | | | i | | | is | | | | | | nside | | | nee | | | | | | old | | | ded_. | | | | | | RA to | | | | | | | | | any | | | | | | | | | node | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | new | | | | | | | | | RA | | | | | | | | | (u | | | | | | | | | nless | | | | | | | | | conti | | | | | | | | | nuity | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | roken | | | | | | | | | la | | | | | | | | | ter). | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **6 |** 6.2 | RAN | FFS | OAM | No | S | 1, 3, | | .2.3: | .3.1: | is | if | confi | i | imple | 5, 6. | | Res | Con | confi | the | gures | mpact | and | | | ource | figur | gured | CN | slice | | effe | | | manag | ation | with | needs | res | | ctive | | | ement | based | re-ma | to be | ource | | sol | | | in | Solut | pping | not | p | | ution | | | N | ion**| p | ified | olicy | | at | | | G-RAN | | olicy | in | to | | the | | | n | | from | case | the | | main | | | ode** | | the | of | NG | | cost | | | | | OAM. | any | -RAN. | | of | | | | | | RA | | | the | | | | | RAN | N-int | A | | OAM | | | | | may | ernal | study | | im | | | | | pos | slice | in | | pact. | | | | | sibly | res | SA5 | | | | | | | s | ource | may | | | | | | | ignal | c | be | | | | | | | the | hange | n | | | | | | | RA | e.g., | eeded | | | | | | | N-int | for | if | | | | | | | ernal | cha | fu | | | | | | | slice | rging | rther | | | | | | | res | pur | ca | | | | | | | ource | pose. | pabil | | | | | | | c | | ities | | | | | | | hange | | are | | | | | | | to | | d | | | | | | | CN. | | eemed | | | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | | | uired | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | RAN | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | eyond | | | | | | | | | those | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | ready | | | | | | | | | suppo | | | | | | | | | rted. | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | **6.2 | RAN | FFS | OAM | No | S | 1, 3, | | | .3.2: | is | if | confi | i | imple | 5, 6 | | | Slice | confi | the | gures | mpact | and | | | | res | gured | CN | slice | | effe | | | | ource | with | needs | res | | ctive | | | | re | re-ma | to be | ource | | sol | | | | -part | pping | not | re-ma | | ution | | | | ition | p | ified | pping | | at | | | | ing** | olicy | in | p | | the | | | | | from | case | olicy | | main | | | | | the | of | to | | cost | | | | | OAM. | any | the | | of | | | | | | RA | NG | | the | | | | | RAN | N-int | -RAN. | | OAM | | | | | may | ernal | | | im | | | | | pos | slice | A | | pact. | | | | | sibly | res | study | | | | | | | s | ource | in | | | | | | | ignal | c | SA5 | | | | | | | the | hange | may | | | | | | | RA | e.g., | be | | | | | | | N-int | for | n | | | | | | | ernal | cha | eeded | | | | | | | slice | rging | if | | | | | | | res | pur | fu | | | | | | | ource | pose. | rther | | | | | | | c | | ca | | | | | | | hange | | pabil | | | | | | | to | | ities | | | | | | | CN. | | are | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | eemed | | | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | | | uired | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | RAN | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | eyond | | | | | | | | | those | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | ready | | | | | | | | | suppo | | | | | | | | | rted. | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | **6.2 | No | No | SA5 | No | S | 1, 3, | | | .3.3: | im | i | noted | i | imple | 5, 6 | | | Mul | pact. | mpact | that | mpact | and | | | | ti-ca | | | the | | effe | | | | rrier | | | co | | ctive | | | | radio | | | ncept | | solu | | | | res | | | of | | tion. | | | | ource | | | RRMP | | | | | | shar | | | olicy | | It | | | | ing** | | | Ratio | | req | | | | | | | is | | uires | | | | | | | co | | the | | | | | | | nfigu | | same | | | | | | | rable | | slice | | | | | | | per | | cov | | | | | | | cell, | | erage | | | | | | | but | | a | | | | | | | not | | cross | | | | | | | per | | diff | | | | | | | frequ | | erent | | | | | | | ency. | | fr | | | | | | | | | equen | | | | | | | A | | cies. | | | | | | | study | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | SA5 | | | | | | | | | may | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | eeded | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | fu | | | | | | | | | rther | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | pabil | | | | | | | | | ities | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | eemed | | | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | | | uired | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | RAN | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | eyond | | | | | | | | | those | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | ready | | | | | | | | | suppo | | | | | | | | | rted. | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **6 | No | CN is | OAM | UE | Sol | 2, 4 | | | .2.4: | i | confi | confi | needs | ution | | | | Slice | mpact | gured | gures | to be | with | | | | Rema | | with | slice | re | OAM, | | | | pping | | rema | re-ma | confi | CN | | | | dec | | pping | pping | gured | and | | | | ision | | p | p | at | UE | | | | in | | olicy | olicy | NAS | i | | | | 5GC** | | from | to | level | mpact | | | | | | the | the | to | | | | | | | OAM. | CN. | asso | **F | | | | | | | | ciate | easib | | | | | | New | | an | ility | | | | | | int | | on | would | | | | | | ra-CN | | going | re | | | | | | proc | | PDU | quire | | | | | | edure | | Se | SA2 | | | | | | is | | ssion | stu | | | | | | n | | to a | dy.** | | | | | | eeded | | new | | | | | | | to | | S-N | Req | | | | | | c | | SSAI. | uired | | | | | | hange | | | proce | | | | | | the | | **F | dures | | | | | | slice | | easib | in UE | | | | | | for | | ility | and | | | | | | an | | would | CN | | | | | | on | | re | are | | | | | | going | | quire | not | | | | | | PDU | | SA2 | suppo | | | | | | ses | | stu | rted. | | | | | | sion. | | dy**. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | **F | | | | | | | | | easib | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | would | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | SA2 | | | | | | | | | stu | | | | | | | | | dy**. | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
# 7 Conclusion
## 7.1 Conclusions on slice based cell reselection, cell selection and RACH
configuration
**For slice based cell reselection, the following solutions are recommended
for normative work:**
\- To assist cell reselection, RAN can broadcast the supported slice info of
the current cell and neighbour cells, and cell reselection priority per slice
in SI message. And RAN can also include the slice info (with similar
information as agreed slice info in SI message) in _RRCRelease_ message.
**For slice based cell selection, the following solutions may be discussed
during WI in RAN2:**
\- To assist cell selection, whether to broadcast supported slice of serving
cell in SI message and how to solve SIB1 concerns.
**For slice based RACH configuration, the following solutions are recommended
for normative work:**
\- Separated PRACH configuration (e.g., transmission occasions of time-
frequency domain and preambles) can be configured for slice or slice group;
\- RACH parameters prioritization (e.g., _scalingFactorBI_ and
_powerRampingStepHighPriority_) can be configured for slice or slice group.
## 7.2 Conclusion on service continuity
**Conclusions on Scenarios:**
Scenario 3-6 can be regarded as the extension of Scenario 1-2, where Scenario
1,3,5,6 are caused by slice resource shortage, while Scenario 2 and 4 are
caused by non-supported slice.
For those scenarios caused by slice resource shortage, the situations of
resource shortage or overload may exist in RAN, provided that pre-configured
policies allow serving this slice even when slice resources are exhausted,
under such conditions, Scenario 1,3,5,6 are valid scenarios.
For those scenarios caused by non-supported slice, scenarios 2 and 4 are valid
if there is a specific pre-configured policy, where the original slice is
required to be available in a specific geographical area and its slice
services are required to have continuity even outside of such geographical
area.
**Conclusions on Solutions for Scenarios 1, 3, 5, 6:**
The solutions to support following RAN slicing scenarios are recommended by
RAN3 to be specified in normative phase:
\- Resource shortage in case of Intra-RA mobility
\- Slice resource shortage for MR-DC
\- Slice overload in RAN node in absence of mobility
The following solutions are recommended by RAN3 to be specified in normative
phase for scenario 1,3,5,6 according to TS 28.541 [2]. Study in SA5 is needed
if further capabilities are deemed required by RAN in normative phase beyond
those already supported:
\- Configuration based Solution (section 6.2.3.1)
\- Slice resource re-partitioning (section 6.2.3.2)
\- Multi-carrier radio resource sharing (section 6.2.3.3)
**Conclusions on Solutions for Scenarios 2, 4:**
RAN3 is not able to make any recommendations on solutions with CN and UE
impact and for solutions to support scenario 2 and 4 during the Study Item.
All solutions addressing these scenarios have been found to have both UE and
CN impacts that would require future study by SA2. For these reasons these
solutions are not considered for Rel17 in RAN3. The application of solution
6.2.1 to scenario 2/4 may be considered in future release if end-to-end
feasibility is also addressed.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Change history