# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions "shall" and "shall not" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions "must" and "must not" are not used as substitutes for
"shall" and "shall not". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and they
are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction "may not" is ambiguous and is not used in normative elements.
The unambiguous constructions "might not" or "shall not" are used instead,
depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions "can" and "cannot" are not substitutes for "may" and "need
not".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions "is" and "is not" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for simultaneous Rx/Tx band
combinations. The TR includes principles to decide mandatory/optional
capability for FDD-TDD, TDD-TDD band combinations in different cases, identify
case by case issues and align the specification treatment for CA/DC/SUL band
combinations.
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".
[2] RP-210890, "New WID on New WID on simultaneous Rx/Tx band combinations for
CA, SUL, MR-DC and NR-DC".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: "NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: "NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone".
[5] 3GPP TS 38.101-3: "NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking operation with other
radios".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
A-MPR Additional Maximum Power Reduction
BCS Bandwidth Combination Set
CA Carrier Aggregation
CC Component Carrier
DC Dual Connectivity
EIRP Equivalent Isotropically Radiated Power
EN-DC E-UTRA/NR DC
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
FDM Frequency Division Multiplexing
FR Frequency Range
ENBW The aggregated bandwidth of an E-UTRA sub-block and an adjacent NR sub-
block
ITS Intelligent Transportation System
ITU-R Radiocommunication Sector of the International Telecommunication Union
MBW Measurement bandwidth defined for the protected band
MPR Allowed maximum power reduction
MSD Maximum Sensitivity Degradation
MCG Master Cell Group
NR New Radio
NS Network Signalling
NSA Non-Standalone, a mode of operation where operation of an other radio is
assisted with an other radio
OOB Out-of-band
OOBE Out-of-band emission
OTA Over The Air
PRB Physical Resource Block
PSCCH Physical Sidelink Control Channel
PSSCH Physical Sidelink Shared Channel
RE Resource Element
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity
RF Radio Frequency
Rx Receiver
SCG Secondary Cell Group
SCS Subcarrier spacing
SEM Spectrum Emission Mask
SL Sidelink
SUL Supplementary uplink
TDM Time Division Multiplex
Tx Transmitter
UE User Equipment
UL MIMO Up Link Multiple Antenna transmission
ULSUP Uplink sharing from UE perspective
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Justification
Simultaneous Rx/Tx capability for inter-band CA, SUL and EN-DC band
combinations were introduced from Rel-15. Specifically, for inter-band CA and
EN-DC combination, the capability is used for TDD-TDD and TDD-FDD band
combinations. According to the description of the capability, it is
conditional mandatory and the condition is described in the field, i.e.
indicated in the RAN4 spec which combinations should mandatorily support
simultaneous Rx/Tx. For the combinations which have no such indication, the
capability is optional, i.e. for UE supporting simultaneous Rx/Tx, the
capability should be reported, otherwise, the capability is absent or not
reported. Since the capability is important for network scheduling, it should
be reported accurately.
However, there are no clear principles to judge whether a band combination can
mandatorily support simultaneous Rx/Tx capability, especially for FDD-TDD band
combinations. It is noted that in Rel-15, whether a FDD-TDD band combination
shall support simultaneous Rx/Tx is based on operators' request. But
afterwards, most FDD-TDD band combinations are not indicated mandatorily in
RAN4 specification. With increasing number of band combinations introduced
after Rel-15, the applicability of simultaneous Rx/Tx capability for a band
combination becomes more ambiguous in the specification, which is not helpful
for both network scheduling and use of the capability for UE side. It is worth
noting that if the capability is not indicated accurately by UE, unexpected
performance loss may happen due to scheduling limitation.
Previously, the simultaneous Rx/Tx capability is focused on FR1 or FR1 and
FR2, since now inter-band CA is also supported for FR2, the capability should
also be considered for band combinations in FR2.
On the other hand, as the capability is defined for CA, SUL, MR-DC and NR-DC
band combinations, and applicability of the corresponding requirements cover
different specifications, e.g. TS 38.101-1 and TS 38.101-3, the way to treat
simultaneous Rx/Tx capability as well as the requirements should be aligned
among the specifications.
## 4.2 Objective
### 4.1.1 Objective and scope
The objectives of the WI are as follows:
1 Define clear principles for FDD-TDD or TDD-TDD band combinations for which
can support or not support simultaneous Rx/Tx for FR1, FR2 and FR1+FR2.
The principles should be studied firstly before detailed analysis carried out
for specific band combinations
2 Identify for each FDD-TDD and TDD-TDD band combinations for CA, SUL, MR-DC
and simultaneous Rx/Tx capability NR-DC based on technical analysis in
parallel with the basket WI intending to introduce the band combination.
3 Align the specification treatment of simultaneous Rx/Tx capability for CA,
SUL, MR-DC and NR-DC band combinations.
### 4.1.2 Way of working
The new request adding **CA, SUL, MR-DC and NR-DC band combinations for
evaluation of** supporting **simultaneous Rx/Tx capability** should be
submitted on RAN4 reflector before tdoc submission deadline to the next RAN4
meeting (1 week before the meeting). The basket WI will then be updated with
the new requests and submitted to next RAN4 meeting for endorsement, before
submission to RAN meeting for approval.
When the work is completed, all draft CRs related to one request will be
submitted in the same RAN4 meeting to check consistency. If they are endorsed,
the basket WI Rapporteur will merge all draft CRs from all requests in big CRs
(one per TS specification). After the RAN4 meeting preceding a RAN meeting,
those big CRs will be sent on RAN4 reflector for email approval (1 week) and,
if agreed, they will be submitted to following RAN meeting.
# 5 Principles for simultaneous Rx/Tx UE capability
## 5.1 Applicability of simultaneous Rx/Tx capability
The following consensus was reached in RAN4 on applicability of simultaneous
Rx/Tx capability.
Simultaneous Rx/Tx capability for LTE CA band combination can be applied for
the corresponding inter-band NR CA band combination.
Same simultaneous Rx/Tx capability can be applied for the corresponding band
combination among NR CA, NR DC and NR EN-DC
If the mandatory simultaneous Rx/Tx capability applies for a band combination,
the mandatory simultaneous Rx/Tx capability also applies for the band
combination when the applicable band combination is a subset of a higher order
band combination.
## 5.2 Rules to decide simultaneous Rx/Tx capability for a band combination
### 5.2.1 FR1+FR1 FDD-TDD band combination
_Editor note: This band combination category also includes SUL band
combination where SUL band is derived from FDD band._
For **FR1+FR1 FDD-TDD band combination,**
Simultaneous Rx/Tx is the default capability in FDD-TDD FR1 band combinations
For TDD-FDD combinations, the capability is mandatory without checking if
there are no MSD issues and frequency range is not adjacent to each other for
the band combinations
For TDD-FDD combinations with REFSENS degradation due to self-interference,
MSD caused by harmonics/IMD, etc. should be defined. For some band
combinations that are close in frequency, e.g. bands n7 and n38, other methods
to mitigate interference can be considered as well. Simultaneous Rx/Tx
capability for this kind of special cases could be handled separately from
those having MSD issues.
Case by case analysis is considered for FR1 FDD-TDD band combination which may
have difficulty to support simultaneous Rx/Tx operation, e.g. with large MSD.
If a FR1 FDD-TDD band combination is identified which cannot support
simultaneous Rx/Tx operation, a note similar to FR1 TDD-TDD band combination
shall be indicated in the specification, and for such operation the minimum
requirements are not applicable for this band combination. Otherwise, the FR1
FDD-TDD band combination with MSD can support simultaneous Rx/Tx operation.
### 5.2.2 FR1+FR1 TDD-TDD band combination
_Editor note: This band combination category also includes SUL band
combination where SUL band is derived from TDD band._
**For FR1+FR1 TDD-TDD band combination, the simultaneous Rx/Tx capability
should be studied case by case.**
### 5.2.3 FR1+FR2 FDD-TDD band combination
For FR1+FR2 FDD-TDD band combination, the **simultaneous Rx/Tx** capability
shall be mandatory if FR1 FDD band (\_
# Annex A (informative): Change history
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **C | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hist | | | | | | | | | ory** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **D | * |** T | * | ** | ** | **Su |** New | | ate**| *Meet | doc** | _CR_ _| Rev_ _| Cat_ _| bject | vers | | | ing_ _| | | | | /Comm | ion_ _| | | | | | | | ent_ * | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-21 | | | | TR | 0.01 | | 21-04 | #98- | 07311 | | | | ske | | | | bis-e | | | | | leton | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR3 | | | | | | | | | 8.xxx | | | | | | | | | Si | | | | | | | | | multa | | | | | | | | | neous | | | | | | | | | RxTx | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | mbina | | | | | | | | | tions | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-21 | | | | R | 0.1.0 | | 21-11 | | 19528 | | | | 4-211 | | | | # | | | | | 4516, | | | | 101-e | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 38 | | | | | | | | | .839: | | | | | | | | | Princ | | | | | | | | | iples | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | | | multa | | | | | | | | | neous | | | | | | | | | Rx/Tx | | | | | | | | | capab | | | | | | | | | ility | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-22 | | | | R | 0.2.0 | | 22.01 | | 05579 | | | | 4-220 | | | | # | | | | | 1955, | | | | 102-e | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 38 | | | | | | | | | .839: | | | | | | | | | Princ | | | | | | | | | iples | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | | | multa | | | | | | | | | neous | | | | | | | | | Rx/Tx | | | | | | | | | capab | | | | | | | | | ility | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-22 | | | | R | 0.3.0 | | 22.05 | | 09251 | | | | 4-220 | | | | # | | | | | 6489, | | | | 103-e | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 38 | | | | | | | | | .839: | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | | | multa | | | | | | | | | neous | | | | | | | | | Rx/Tx | | | | | | | | | capab | | | | | | | | | ility | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-22 | | | | R4-22 | 0.4.0 | | 22.05 | | 11229 | | | | 9740, | | | | # | | | | | TP | | | | 103-e | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 38 | | | | | | | | | .839: | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | | | multa | | | | | | | | | neous | | | | | | | | | Rx/Tx | | | | | | | | | capab | | | | | | | | | ility | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | RP-2 | | | | U | 1.0.0 | | 22.05 | #96 | 21522 | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hi | | | | | | | | | story | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+