# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions "shall" and "shall not" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions "must" and "must not" are not used as substitutes for
"shall" and "shall not". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and they
are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**Should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction "may not" is ambiguous and is not used in normative elements.
The unambiguous constructions "might not" or "shall not" are used instead,
depending upon the meaning intended.
**Can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions "can" and "cannot" are not substitutes for "may" and "need
not".
**Will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions "is" and "is not" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for FR1 Total Radiated Power (TRP)
and Total Radiated Sensitivity (TRS) test methodology, for NR standalone (SA)
and NR non-standalone (NSA) operation mode.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".
[2] 3GPP TR 38.827: "Study on radiated metrics and test methodology for the
verification of multi-antenna reception performance of NR User Equipment
(UE)".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: "NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.101-3: "NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking operation with other
radios".
[5] 3GPP TS 38.521-1: "NR; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Radio transmission and reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone".
[6] 3GPP TS 38.521-3: "NR; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Radio transmission and reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking
operation with other radios".
[7] 3GPP TS 38.508-1: "5GS; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 1: Common test environment ".
[8] 3GPP TR 25.914: "Measurements of radio performances for UMTS terminals in
speech mode".
[9] IEEE Std 149: "IEEE Standard Test Procedures for Antennas", IEEE.
[10] JCGM 100:2008: "Evaluation of measurement data --- Guide to the
expression of uncertainty in measurement".
[11] ETSI TR 102 273-1-1: "Electromagnetic compatibility and Radio spectrum
Matters (ERM); Improvement on Radiated Methods of Measurement (using test
site) and evaluation of the corresponding measurement uncertainties; Part 1:
Uncertainties in the measurement of mobile radio equipment characteristics;
Sub-part 1: Introduction".
[12] ETSI TR 100 028-2: "ElectroMagnetic Compatibility and Radio Spectrum
Matters (ERM); Uncertainties in the measurement of mobile radio equipment
characteristics; Part 2".
[13] ETSI TR 102 273-1-2: "Electromagnetic compatibility and Radio spectrum
Matters (ERM); Improvement on Radiated Methods of Measurement (using test
site) and evaluation of the corresponding measurement uncertainties; Part 1:
Uncertainties in the measurement of mobile radio equipment characteristics;
Sub-part 2: Examples and annexes".
[14] CTIA Certification™ OTA Test Plan: " CTIA Certification Test Plan for
Wireless Device Over-the-Air Performance, Version 3.9.X ",
https://ctiacertification.org/test-plans/
[15] Foegelle, M.D., "The Surface Standard Deviation Method for TRP
Measurement Uncertainty", 25^th^ Proceedings of the Antenna Measurement
Techniques Association (AMTA 2003), A03-027
[16] 3GPP TR 37.902: "Measurements of User Equipment (UE) radio performances
for LTE/UMTS terminals; Total Radiated Power (TRP) and Total Radiated
Sensitivity (TRS) test ".
[17] 3GPP TS 37.544: "Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) Over The Air
(OTA) performance; Conformance testing ".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
Definition format (Normal)
**\ :** \.
**Example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format (EW)
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
DUT Device Under Test
EIRP Effective Isotropic Radiated Power
EUT Equipment Under Test
FR1 Frequency Range 1
FS Free Space
LEE Laptop Embedded Equipment
LME Laptop Mounted Equipment
NSA Non-Standalone, a mode of operation where operation of an other radio is
assisted with an other radio
OTA Over The Air
QZ Quiet Zone
SA Standalone
SS System Simulator
TAA Time-Averaging Algorithm
TAS Tx Antenna Switching
TRP Total Radiated Power
TRS Total Radiated Sensitivity
UE User Equipment
# 4 General
## 4.1 Device types
The following device types are within the scope of FR1 TRP TRS WI:
\- Smartphone
\- Considering Ues with antenna configurations of 1Tx, 2Tx, 2 Rx and 4 Rx
\- Tablet
\- Laptop embedded equipment (LEE)
\- Laptop mounted equipment (LME)
The development of test methodology aspects shall initially focus on the
smartphone device type.
## 4.2 Testing configuration
### 4.2.1 UE use scenarios for TRP TRS test
The following use scenarios are considered for TRP TRS test:
\- Talk mode using head & hand phantom for narrow devices between 56 mm and 72
mm and for wide devices with a width >72 mm and \72mm and ≤92mm
\- PDA Grip Hand for UE with Width ≥56mm and ≤72mm
### 6.2.1 Wide Grip Hand
This positioning guideline is suitable for DUTs with width >72mm and ≤92mm.
The positioning guideline defined in CTIA Certification OTA Test Plan section
A.1.4.4 [14], is used for FR1 TRP TRS testing for UE with Width >72mm and
≤92mm in this technical report.
{width="4.159315398075241in" height="3.0378794838145233in"}
Figure 6.2.1-1: Positioning guidance for Wide Grip Hand (© 2001 -- 2022 CTIA
Certification. Reproduced with permission.), defined in the CTIA Certification
OTA Test Plan
### 6.2.2 PDA Grip Hand
This positioning guideline is suitable for DUTs with width ≥56mm and ≤72mm.
To help achieve a consistent positioning, the DUT is aligned to a PDA palm
spacer. No alignment tool is required. The PDA spacer features side and bottom
walls to ensure consistent alignment of DUTs of various sizes.
> 1\. Place the DUT on the PDA spacer between the fingers and align the DUT to
> the side wall of the PDA.
>
> 2\. If the DUT is shorter than 135 mm, then align the top of the DUT with
> the top of the PDA spacer. Otherwise, align the bottom of the DUT with the
> bottom wall of the PDA spacer.
>
> 3\. While keeping the DUT in the hand phantom in the position defined in
> previous steps, place the DUT and the hand phantom against the head phantom
> in such way that the DUT is in 6°tilt angle as described in Subclause 4.3.3.
{width="1.3441557305336833in" height="2.4293493000874893in"}
Figure 6.2.2-1: Right-handed PDA Grip hand phantom with a spacer
NOTE: Use left-handed (mirror-imaged) spacers with left-handed phantoms.
## 6.3 Head and Hand phantom (Talk Mode)
### 6.3.1 General
According to the UE use scenarios for TRP TRS test defined in Section 4.2.1,
the positioning specified in this clause is used for the test cases for Talk
Mode using Head & Hand Phantom. The characteristics of the Hand Phantom and
Head Phantom are specified in Annex D.
Talk mode is used to simulate user cases where the DUT is placed into a hand
phantom, which is holding the DUT against the SAM head phantom, presenting a
realistic voice call operation of the DUT. Same as Browsing mode, the DUT for
talk mode shall also be mounted in a suitable hand phantom:
\- Wide Grip Hand for UE with Width >72mm and ≤92mm
\- PDA Grip Hand for UE with Width ≥56mm and ≤72mm
In this section, the procedure provides the guideline on how to place the
DUT+hand against the head phantom. The detailed DUT positioning into hand
phantom for talk mode is defined in section 6.3.2 and 6.3.3.
For talk mode, the DUT is attached to the head phantom in "cheek" position.
The DUT performance is measured on both left and right side of the head. Three
points as shown in Figure 6.3.1-1 define the reference plane: centre of the
right ear piece (RE), centre of the left ear piece (LE) and centre of mouth
(M).
Definition of the 'Cheek' position:
> 1\. Align the ear piece of the phone (see Figure 4.3.1-1) at the line RE-LE.
> Then, position the DUT beside the phantom so that the vertical line (see
> Figure 4.3.1-3) is parallel to the reference plane in Figure 4.3.1-2 and is
> aligned with the line M-RE on the reference plane (see Figure 4.3.1-3).
>
> 2\. Position the DUT so that the ear piece of the DUT touches the ear piece
> of the phantom head on the line RE-LE. Tilt the DUT chassis towards the
> cheek of the phantom having the vertical line aligned with the reference
> plane until any point on the front side of the DUT is in contact with the
> cheek or until the contact with the ear is lost.
NOTE: A holder fixture made of e.g. plastic may be used to position the
handset against the phantom.
{width="2.0833333333333335in" height="1.5208333333333333in"}
Figure 6.3.1-1: Reference plane on head phantom, front view
{width="1.4013888888888888in" height="1.4534722222222223in"}
Figure 6.3.1-2: Reference plane on head phantom, side view
In addition, 6°tilt angle from the cheek is being used instead of having
direct contact between the cheek and DUT. A mask may be used to help
configuration of cheek + 6° tilt angle. The mask is a 32 mm wide conformal
strip, created by sweeping the surface of the head phantom through a 6º
rotation about the ear. Direct DUT contact against the mask thus establishes
the required 6º spacing away from the cheek, regardless of DUT form factor.
The material for the head phantom mask spacer shall have dielectric constant
of less than 1.3 and a loss tangent of less than 0.003. Material additions can
be used to help fixing of the mask spacer onto the head phantom.
### 6.3.2 Wide Grip Hand and Head
This procedure is suitable for talk mode use with DUTs of width >72mm and
≤92mm. The positioning of the DUT in the Wide Grip hand for talk mode is
identical to that for browsing mode described in section 6.2.2.
### 6.3.3 PDA Grip Hand and Head
This procedure is suitable for talk mode use with DUTs of width ≥56mm and
≤72mm. The positioning of the DUT in the PDA Grip hand for talk mode is
identical to that for browsing mode described in section 6.2.3.
# 7 Test setup and calibration
## 7.1 General
### 7.1.1 Minimum Range Length
This sub-section specifies the minimum range lengths for NR FR1 TRP-TRS OTA
systems. The range length is defined as the distance from the centre of the
quiet zone to the aperture of the measurement probes/antennas, as illustrated
in Figure 7.1.1-1.
{width="2.3361111111111112in" height="2.3680555555555554in"}
Figure 7.1.1-1: Illustration of range length definition
The minimum range length shall be the maximum of the following three limits
\- The phase uncertainty limit: _R_ ~QZ~+2 _D_ ~rad~^2^/λ
\- The amplitude uncertainty limit: 3 _D_
\- The reactive Near-Field limit: _R_ ~QZ~+2λ
where _R_ ~QZ~ is defined as the radius of the quiet zone, i.e., _R_ ~QZ~=_D_
/2, and _D_ ~rad~ is the diameter of the effective radiating aperture. The
minimum range length calculations for _D_ =30cm quiet zone size TRP-TRS OTA
test systems shall assume that _D_ ~rad~ is 30cm below 1GHz and decrease
linearly from 30cm to 5cm from 1GHz to 7.125GHz, respectively. The last column
of Table 7.1.1-1 shall be considered the minimum range length for NR FR1 TRP-
TRS OTA systems with 30cm quiet zone size.
Table 7.1.1-1: Minimum Range Length for NR FR1 TRP-TRS OTA systems with 30cm
quiet zone size.
_F_ [GHz] D~rad~ [m] R~QZ~+2 _D~rad~_ ²/λ 3 _D_ = 6 _R_ ~QZ~ R~QZ~+2λ
max(R~QZ~+2λ,3 _D_ ,R~QZ~+2 _D_ ²/λ)
* * *
0.41 0.30 0.40 0.9 1.61 1.61 0.6 0.30 0.51 0.9 1.15 1.15 0.7 0.30 0.57 0.9
1.01 1.01 0.8 0.30 0.63 0.9 0.90 0.90 1 0.30 0.75 0.9 0.75 0.90 1.2 0.29 0.83
0.9 0.65 0.90 1.4 0.28 0.90 0.9 0.58 0.90 1.6 0.28 0.96 0.9 0.52 0.96 1.8 0.27
1.01 0.9 0.48 1.01 2 0.26 1.05 0.9 0.45 1.05 2.2 0.25 1.07 0.9 0.42 1.07 2.4
0.24 1.09 0.9 0.40 1.09 2.6 0.23 1.11 0.9 0.38 1.11 2.8 0.23 1.11 0.9 0.36
1.11 3 0.22 1.10 0.9 0.35 1.10 4 0.18 0.99 0.9 0.30 0.99 5 0.14 0.77 0.9 0.27
0.90 6 0.10 0.52 0.9 0.25 0.90 7 0.06 0.29 0.9 0.24 0.90 7.125 0.05 0.27 0.9
0.23 0.90
## 7.2 Test setup
For FR1 TRP TRS testing, both Single-antenna and multiple-antennas anechoic
chambers can both be applied. In Figure 7.2-1, an example TRP TRS test system
with combined axes system is presented.
{width="5.904166666666667in" height="2.9520833333333334in"}
Figure 7.2-1: Example of a FR1 TRP TRS OTA test system with combined axis
In Figure 7.2-2, an example TRP TRS test system with distributed axes system
is presented.
{width="5.904166666666667in" height="3.2881944444444446in"}
Figure 7.2-2: Example of a FR1 TRP TRS OTA test system with distributed axis
## 7.3 Calibration procedure
The relative power values of the measurement points will be transformed to
absolute radiated power values (in dBm) by performing a range path loss
calibration measurement. The system needs to be calibrated by using a
reference calibration antenna with known gain values. In the range path loss
calibration measurement, the reference antenna is measured in the same place
as the DUT, i.e. the center of the QZ, and the attenuation of the complete
transmission path ($L_{\text{total}}$) from the DUT to the measurement
receiver/BS simulator is calibrated out.
{width="5.9118055555555555in" height="2.8881944444444443in"}
Figure 7.3-1: Example FR1 TRP TRS calibration setup
The calibration measurement is repeated for each measurement path (two
orthogonal polarizations and each signal path). The range path loss
calibration measurement is performed in a two-step process including total
path loss measurement and cable calibration.
> Step 1: Cable calibration: the measurement of path loss _L~DE~_
> $L_{\text{DE}}$~,~ by connecting the cable from D to E to the two ports of
> VNA, and measure the cable path loss.
>
> Step 2: Total path loss measurement: the measurement of total path loss
> _L~BC~_ ;
>
> 1\. Place the reference calibration antenna (e.g. reference dipole) in the
> center of the test zone aligned with θ polarization of the measurement
> antenna, connected to a VNA port E, with the other VNA port C connected to
> the input of the Switch box -- in Figure 7.3-1.
>
> 2\. Configure the proper output power of VNA.
>
> 3\. Measure the response _L~CE~_ $L_{\text{CE}}\ $of each path from each θ
> polarization of the measurement antenna to the reference antenna in the
> center of QZ.
>
> 4\. Repeat the steps 1 to 3 with the reference antenna aligned with the ϕ
> polarization of the measurement antenna.
Then, the $L_{\text{total}} = \left( L_{\text{CE}} - L_{\text{DE}} +
G_{\text{cal}} \right)$, Where _L~DE~_ $L_{\text{DE}}$ is cable loss from D to
E. $G_{\text{cal}}$ is the gain or efficiency of the calibration antenna at
the frequency of interest. In TRP and TRS measurements point C is connected to
the calibrated input/output port of measurement receiver.
This range path loss calibration procedure is common to both SA and EN-DC
measurements.
## 7.4 Ripple test for Quiet Zone
## 7.4.1 General
The ripple test procedure is defined in this clause. Frequencies to be used
for ripple test:
Table 7.4.1-1: Frequencies for FR1 ripple test
* * *
NR FR1 Bands Range Test frequency (MHz) n71 Low 617MHz n12, n17, n29, n14, n28
722MHz n5, n8, n18, n20 836.5MHz n50, n51, n74 Mid 1575.42MHz n3, n2, n25, n39
1880MHz n1, n34, n65 2132.5MHz n7, n30, n41, n40, n38, n90 2450MHz n77, n78
High 3600MHz n79 [4700MHz]
* * *
## 7.4.2 Ripple test procedure
Unwanted reflections and support structure blockage cause a volumetric ripple
to the field magnitude measured by or created by the measurement antenna as
shown in Figure 7.4.2-1, affecting every possible test point within a desired
test volume. By rotating an omnidirectional antenna through the test volume as
illustrated by the red line, this volumetric ripple may be probed to obtain an
estimate of the measurement uncertainty due to this volumetric error. Note,
however, that the volumetric ripple caused by multipath reflections is related
to the wavelength and the relative path lengths of the direct and reflected
paths to the measurement antenna, and is not inherently a function of the test
volume. As illustrated in Figure 7.4.2-1(left), when the wavelength is
relatively large compared to the test volume, it may not be possible to probe
the entire range of errors that may actually exist within the test volume.
Doing so would require probing an area larger than the test volume in order to
accurately estimate the error within the test volume. Even when the test
volume is several wavelengths in size, a given evaluation of the ripple may
not completely caliper the worst-case error conditions within the test volume
(Figure 7.4.2-1 (right)).
{width="6.177083333333333in" height="2.6041666666666665in"}
Figure 7.4.2-1: Volumetric ripple and 20cm Phi axis cut
Conversely, field non-uniformities in the test volume caused by amplitude
taper of the measurement antenna and shadowing of portions of the test volume
by support structure are geometric in nature and relate directly to the size
of the test volume and the related factors of the measurement antenna and
support structure. This test procedure attempts to capture the impact of these
effects to within the practical limits of the available test volume and test
equipment expected in the lab.
The quiet zone ripple test covers two cylindrical test volumes, one for
handsets and smaller devices, with or without head and/or hand phantoms, and a
larger volume for testing up to notebook PC sized devices. The smaller
cylinder is 30 cm in diameter, concentric to the phi axis, and 30 cm tall
along the phi axis, centered on the intersection of the theta and phi axes.
The larger cylinder is 50 cm in diameter, concentric to the phi axis, with the
base of the cylinder coincident with that of the smaller cylinder and a height
of 36 cm along the phi axis. The test consists of a set of individual ripple
tests about the phi- and theta-axes utilizing both electric dipoles and
magnetic loop dipoles to generate uniform omnidirectional dipole-like patterns
about the axis of rotation. Data is measured on the co-polarized measurement
antenna element for each corresponding test.
For the phi-axis ripple test, each reference antenna is oriented with its axis
parallel to the phi axis at a total of three positions, offset 15 cm
perpendicular to the phi axis with 0 cm and ±15 cm offsets parallel to the phi
axis. At each position, the phi axis is rotated 360° to record the ripple.
Each position is labeled by its radial and axial offset from the center
position, (_R_ , _Z_). See Figure 7.4.2-2 for additional information.
{width="5.708333333333333in" height="2.625in"}
Figure 7.4.2-2: Phi-axis test geometry
For the notebook sized test volume, three additional test positions are added
to the phi-axis test in order to cover the larger test cylinder. These
positions are offset 25 cm perpendicular to the phi axis with -15, 0, and +21
cm offsets parallel to the phi axis, as shown in Figure 7.4.2-3.
{width="5.8125in" height="2.6875in"}
Figure 7.4.2-3: Phi-axis test geometry for the notebook sized test volume
For the theta-axis ripple test, each reference antenna is oriented with its
axis parallel to the theta axis at a total of eight positions on the surface
of the cylinder defined above. Defining Cartesian coordinates (X, Y, Z) with
the Z-axis along the phi-axis, the Y-axis along the theta-axis, and the
measurement antenna moving in the XZ plane relative to the reference antenna
used for the ripple test, the test positions are given as (±15 cm, 0, ±15 cm)
and (0, ±15 cm, ±15 cm), relative to the center of the test volume as shown in
Figure 7.4.2-4. At each position, the theta axis is rotated over as much of
360° as supported by the system to record the ripple (e.g. ±165°). For systems
that can only move theta in the range of 0-180° or less, the phi axis may be
rotated 180° and a second cut measured to meet or exceed the ±165° range. Each
position is labeled by its (X, Y, Z) offset from the center position.
{width="6.427083333333333in" height="2.625in"}
Figure 7.4.2-4: Theta-axis test geometry
For the notebook sized test volume, eight additional test positions are added
to the theta-axis test in order to cover the larger test cylinder. These
positions are given as (±25 cm, 0, -15 cm), (±25 cm, 0, +21 cm), (0, ±25 cm,
0, -15 cm), and (0, ±25 cm, +21 cm), as shown in Figure 7.4.2-5.
{width="6.427083333333333in" height="2.6145833333333335in"}
Figure 7.4.2-5: Theta-axis test geometry for the notebook sized test volume
For each polarization and band, repeat the following steps:
For the phi-axis ripple test:
1\. Place the measurement antenna and any associated theta-axis positioner at
theta = 90° such that the measurement antenna is boresight with the center of
the quiet zone. The measurement antenna should be at the same separation
distance to be used for actual pattern measurements. This distance must be at
least the minimum measurement distance away from the center of the quiet zone
as defined in clause 7.1. Select the polarization of the measurement antenna
to correspond to the polarization (theta or phi) to be tested.
2\. Mount the reference antenna to the phi-axis positioner using a low
permittivity dielectric support. Use the sleeve dipole for the theta
polarization and the loop for the phi polarization. At each of the specified
offset positions, ensure that the axis of the reference antenna is parallel to
the phi axis of rotation.
3\. Attach a signal source to a coaxial cable feeding the measurement antenna
and set the frequency to the appropriate channel. Set the amplitude to a level
appropriate for the measurement receiver. Connect a measurement receiver to
the reference antenna. The received signal during the ripple test measurement
should be at least 40 dB above the noise floor or noise errors greater than
0.1 dB will result. Ensure that all coaxial cables are dressed to minimize
effects upon the measurement results.
4\. Rotate the reference antenna about the phi axis and record the signal
received by the measurement antenna at resolution sufficient to ensure
smoothly varying curves for a total of 360°.
5\. Record the measurement results in a format suitable for calculating the
ripple test metric.
6\. Record test parameters including: (a) the distance between the measurement
and reference antennas, (b) cable losses and other losses associated with the
measurement setup, (c) the power of the signal source at the reference antenna
connector, and (d) the noise level of the receiver with no signal applied.
7\. Repeat steps 1 through 6 above for each reference antenna (polarization
and band) for each of the required test positions. In order to accommodate
reference positioning in the lower portion of the quiet zone, support
materials with a dielectric constant less than 1.2 may be removed to a maximum
distance of 25 cm outside the quiet zone for the tests that require additional
clearance.
For the theta-axis ripple test:
1\. Place the measurement antenna such that it is boresight with the center of
the quiet zone. The measurement antenna should be at the same separation
distance to be used for actual pattern measurements. This distance must be at
least the minimum measurement distance away from the center of the quiet zone
as defined in clause 7.1. Select the polarization of the measurement antenna
to correspond to the polarization (theta or phi) to be tested.
2\. Mount the reference antenna in the quiet zone using a low permittivity
dielectric support and such that rotating the theta positioner will cause the
measurement antenna to rotate relative to the reference antenna. Use the
sleeve dipole for the phi polarization and the loop for the theta
polarization. At each of the specified offset positions, ensure that the axis
of the reference antenna is parallel to the theta axis of rotation.
3\. Attach a signal source to a coaxial cable feeding the measurement antenna
and set the frequency to the appropriate channel. Set the amplitude to a level
appropriate for the measurement receiver. Connect a measurement receiver to
the reference antenna. The received signal during the ripple test measurement
should be at least 40 dB above the noise floor or noise errors greater than
0.1 dB will result. Ensure that all coaxial cables are dressed to minimize
effects upon the measurement results.
4\. Rotate the reference antenna about the theta axis and record the signal
received by the measurement antenna at resolution sufficient to ensure
smoothly varying curves for a total of at least ±165° or the equivalent (e.g.
0-360°). For systems that are unable to rotate a full ±165°, the reference
antenna may be mounted to the phi axis and two separate theta cuts from 0
to165° may be taken, after rotating the phi axis 180° between the first and
second cut.
5\. Record the measurement results in a format suitable for calculating the
ripple test metric.
6\. Record test parameters including: (a) the distance between the measurement
and reference antennas, (b) cable losses and other losses associated with the
measurement setup, (c) the power of the signal source at the reference antenna
connector, and (d) the noise level of the receiver with no signal applied.
7\. Repeat steps 1 through 6 above for each reference antenna (polarization
and band) for each of the required test positions. In order to accommodate
reference positioning in the lower portion of the quiet zone, support
materials with a dielectric constant less than 1.2 may be removed to a maximum
distance of 25 cm outside the quiet zone for the tests that require additional
clearance.
## 7.5 TAS OFF verification procedure
As described in Clause 8.2.2 and 9.2.2, for SA and EN-DC testing respectively,
the TAS OFF should be ensured before performing TRP test. In order to provide
guidance on how to check UE antenna locking condition, this Clause define an
informative test procedure to verify TAS OFF.
The general verification procedure is as following:
\- Perform OTA TRP measurement baseline test with top of device pointing
towards +Z and display oriented at phi (azimuth) 0 degree following the
traditional alignment method;
\- Benchmark with similar TRP measurement OTA test with top of device pointing
towards -Z and display oriented at phi (azimuth) 0 degree. The point
equivalently spaced from the bottom of the device as the original reference
point is spaced from the top of the device will be positioned at the center of
the quiet zone.
Expectation: The magnitude of the TRP measurement being equal; similar 2D
and/or 3D radiation pattern is expected (with 180 degrees rotation). This
provides non-intrusive confirmation that the device indeed is tested with TAS
OFF.
An additional alignment option to perform the above verification procedure is
to orient the display in vertical alignment (along z-axis) flip the DUT upside
down (vary theta) and perform the comparison of radiation pattern as described
above.
The applicability of this verification procedure is FFS. The criteria of
confirming TAS-OFF based on above verification procedure is FFS.
Note: The above test procedure is informative and not a mandated action for
test lab to be done before UE TRP testing.
# 8 SA test methodology
## 8.1 General
For UE radiated conformance testing P-MPR~c~ shall be 0 dB.
FR1 TRP and TRS radiated conformance testing shall be performed with the UE
consistently operating at maximum power level, e.g., Time-Averaged Algorithm
(TAA) and other power back-off functions should be disabled. The above
functions OFF should be based on manufacturer declaration, if declared, then
the manufacturer is required to provide a mechanism for the test lab to
enable/disable the function.
The NR SS should send continuous uplink power control "up" commands to the DUT
to ensure the DUT's transmitter is at maximum output power during the SA TRP
and TRS test.
## 8.2 Total Radiated Power (TRP)
### 8.2.1 Test Conditions
The TRP of the DUT is measured by sampling the radiated transmit power of the
DUT with three-dimensional scan at various locations surrounding the device.
The measurement is performed with a constant sampling step of 15 degrees in
both theta (θ) and phi (φ) axes for TRP measurement. This accounts for a total
of 266 measurements for each of two orthogonal polarizations since
measurements at theta = 0 and 180 degrees only require one measurement each.
For some test system can not measure 180º EIRP, then the extrapolation
approach can be adopted when generating the 3D antenna pattern. All of the
measured power values will be integrated to TRP, as defined in Clause 5.1.
### 8.2.2 UE configurations
For devices containing multiple Tx antennas, the Tx Antenna Switching (TAS)
function should be OFF, and the TRP should be measured for each Tx antenna
individually. The antenna with better TRP is identified as the primary
antenna, and the corresponding TRP result will be used to determine the
pass/fail compliance. Otherwise the primary antenna should be selected based
on manufacturer declaration. To ensure the TAS OFF testing, the manufacture
should provide either software/guidance to lab to control which Tx antenna is
used, or the pre-configured DUT locked at primary antenna.
The NR System Simulator (SS) and DUT shall be configured per TS 38.521-1 [5],
section 6.2.1 (UE maximum output power) using the default settings specified
in TS 38.521-1 [5] and TS 38.508-1 [7] as applicable. The measurement should
be carried out based on the detailed test parameters for each band, as defined
in Table 4.3-1.
### 8.2.3 Test procedure
For TRP measurement, the evaluations shall be performed at maximum transmit
power.
The measurement procedure includes the following steps:
1) Place the DUT inside the QZ following the positioning guideline defined in
Clause 6.
2) Connect the SS with the DUT through the link antenna following steps 1 and
2 in section 6.2.1.4.2 of TS 38.521-1 [5] and ensure the DUT transmits with
its maximum power.
> 3) Measure the power at each measurement point, and calculate
> $\text{EIRP}\left( \theta,\phi \right)$ by adding the composite loss of the
> entire transmission path.
The TRP value is calculated using the TRP integration approaches outlined in
Clause 5.1.
## 8.3 Total Radiated Sensitivity (TRS)
### 8.3.1 Test Conditions
The TRS of the DUT is measured by sampling effective isotropic sensitivity
(EIS) of the DUT with three-dimensional scan at various locations surrounding
the device. The measurement is performed with a constant sampling step of 30
degrees in both theta (θ) and phi (φ) axes for TRS measurement.
EIS, or receiver sensitivity measurements, is defined as the minimum downlink
signal power received at the UE antenna input required to provide a data
throughput rate greater than or equal to 95% of the maximum throughput of the
reference measurement channel (RMC) (the maximum throughput is per Appendix A
of TS 38.521-1 [5]).
### 8.3.2 UE configurations
For TRS measurement, no specific setting is needed for Rx antennas. By
default, the maximum number of Rx antennas supported at each band should be
enabled during the TRS test.
The NR System Simulator (SS) and DUT shall be configured per section 7.3.2
(Reference sensitivity power level) of TS 38.521-1 [5] using the defaults
specified in TS 38.521-1 [5] and TS 38.508-1 [7] as applicable. The
measurement should be carried out based on the detailed test parameters for
each band, as defined in Table 4.3-2.
### 8.3.3 Test procedure
For TRS measurement, the evaluations shall be performed at maximum transmit
power.
The measurement procedure includes the following steps:
1) Place the DUT inside the QZ following the positioning guideline defined in
Clause 6.
2) Connect the SS with the DUT through the measurement antenna.
> 3) Follow steps 1 through 4 in section 7.3.2.4.2 of TS 38.521-1 [5], with
> the following exception: determine each EIS, i.e., by adjusting the downlink
> signal level until the minimum power level at which the throughput exceeds
> or equal to 95% of the maximum throughput of the specified RMC, at each
> sampling point. The downlink power step size shall be no more than 0.5 dB
> when the RF power level is near the NR sensitivity level.
The TRS value is calculated using the equation outlined in Clause 5.2.
# 9 EN-DC test methodology
## 9.1 General
For UE radiated conformance testing P-MPR~c~ shall be 0 dB.
FR1 TRP and TRS radiated conformance testing shall be performed with the UE
consistently operating at maximum power level, e.g., Time-Averaged Algorithm
(TAA) and other power back-off functions should be disabled. The above
functions OFF should be based on manufacturer declaration, if declared, then
the manufacturer is required to provide a mechanism for the test lab to
enable/disable the function.
The NR SS should send continuous uplink power control "up" commands to the DUT
to ensure the DUT's transmitter is at maximum output power during the EN-DC
TRP and TRS test.
## 9.2 Total Radiated Power (TRP)
### 9.2.1 Test Conditions
For UE TRP measurement in EN-DC mode, the TRP measurement should be only
performed at NR carrier. An LTE link antenna is used to provide a stable LTE
link to the DUT without precise path loss or polarization control.
The sampling step for EN-DC TRP measurement is the same as SA mode, defined in
Clause 8.2.1.
### 9.2.2 UE configurations
For UE TRP measurement in EN-DC mode, the UL output power of LTE carrier
should be set as a constant power of 10dBm, while measuring NR at maximum
output power, i.e., with fixed p-MaxEUTRA-r15=10 dBm, and p-NR-FR1 not
configured.
For devices supporting multiple Tx antennas, the guidelines specified in
Clause 8.2.2 shall be used.
For EN-DC, the SS and DUT shall be configured per TS 38.521-3 [6], Section
6.2B.1 (UE Maximum Output Power for EN-DC) using the default settings
specified in TS 38.521-3 [6] and TS 38.508 [7] as applicable. The measurement
should be carried out based on the detailed test parameters for each band, as
defined in Table 4.3-3 for EN-DC TRP.
### 9.2.3 Test procedure
For TRP measurement, the evaluations shall be performed at 10dBm LTE output
power and NR maximum transmit power, i.e., with fixed p-MaxEUTRA-r15=10 dBm,
and p-NR-FR1 not configured.
The measurement procedure for EN-DC TRP is identical to that for SA mode
specified in Clause 8.2.3, as long as the specific SS and UE configuration in
Clause 9.2.2 is adopted.
## 9.3 Total Radiated Sensitivity (TRS)
### 9.3.1 Test Conditions
For UE TRS measurement in EN-DC mode, the TRS measurement should be only
performed at NR carrier. When NR is under test, the LTE carrier is used only
to provide a stable connection, and therefore a calibrated downlink power
level to the DUT is not required. It is recommended that the DL power on the
untested LTE carrier be limited in order to minimize the potential
interference for NR.
The definition of EN-DC TRS measurement and the sampling step is identical to
that for SA mode, defined in Clause 8.3.1.
### 9.3.2 UE configurations
For EN-DC TRS measurement, the UL power configuration for LTE and NR is
50%-50% power splitting, i.e.,
\- For PC3, p-MaxEUTRA-r15=20 dBm, and p-NR-FR1= 20dBm;
\- For PC2, p-MaxEUTRA-r15=23 dBm, and p-NR-FR1= 23dBm.
For devices supporting multiple Rx antennas, the guidelines specified in
Clause 8.3.2 shall be used. It should be noted that all receivers on both LTE
and NR shall be enabled during EN-DC test.
The EN-DC SS and DUT shall be configured per section 7.3B.2 (Reference
Sensitivity for EN-DC) of TS 38.521-3 [6], using the defaults specified in TS
38.521-3 [6] and TS 38.508 [7], as applicable. The measurement should be
carried out based on the detailed test parameters for each band, as defined in
Table 4.3-3 for EN-DC TRS.
### 9.3.3 Test procedure
For EN-DC TRS test, only NR carrier measurement is required. The test
procedure for EN-DC TRS is identical to that defined in Clause 8.3.3, as long
as the specific SS and UE configuration in Clause 9.3.2 is adopted.
# 10 Alternate test procedure to reduce test time
## 10.1 General
\
## 10.2 Test procedure
# **Annex A: UE coordinate system**
# A.1 Reference coordinate system
This annex defines the measurement coordinate system for NR FR1 TRP and TRS
measurements. The reference coordinate system, as defined in [9] is provided
in Figure A.1-1 below while A.1-2 shows the DUT in the default alignment for
Free Space.
{width="5.358333333333333in" height="5.131944444444445in"}
Figure A.1-1: Reference coordinate system
{width="2.670138888888889in" height="3.1416666666666666in"}
Figure A.1-2: DUT default alignment to coordinate system
The following aspects are necessary:
\- A basic understanding of the top and bottom of the device is needed in
order to define unambiguous DUT positioning requirements for the test, e.g.,
in the drawings used in this annex, the earpiece is on the top center of the
device (front), the three buttons are on the bottom of the device (front) and
the camera is on the top of the device (back).
\- An understanding of the origin and alignment of the coordinate system
inside the test system, i.e. the directions in which the x, y, z axes point
inside the test chamber, is needed in order to define unambiguous DUT
orientation and measurement angles.
# **Annex B (informative):****Estimation of measurement uncertainty**
# B.1 General
  1. Individual uncertainty contributions in the TRP and TRS measurements are discussed and evaluated in this Annex. A technique for calculating the total measurement uncertainty is also presented.
An important part of a standard measurement procedure is the identification of
uncertainty sources and the evaluation of the overall measurement uncertainty.
There are various individual uncertainty sources in the measurement procedure
that introduce a certain uncertainty contribution to the final measurement
result. The approach in this standard test procedure is that the test
laboratories are not limited to using some specific instruments and antenna
positioners, for example.
The TRP/TRS measurement procedure can be considered to include two stages. In
Stage 1 the calibration of the absolute level of the DUT measurement results
is performed by means of using a calibration antenna whose absolute
gain/radiation efficiency is known at the frequencies of interest. In Stage 2
the actual measurement of the 3-D pattern of the Device Under Test (DUT) is
performed. The uncertainty contributions are analysed in clause B.2 while the
uncertainty budget and example tables related to TRP and TRS are listed in
clauses B.3 and B.4 respectively.
The calculation of the uncertainty contribution is based on the Guide to the
expression of uncertainty in measurement [10]. Each individual uncertainty is
expressed by its Standard Deviation (termed here as 'standard uncertainty')
and represented by symbol U. The uncertainty contributions can be classified
to two categories: Type-A uncertainties, which are statistically determined
e.g. by repeated measurements, and Type-B uncertainties, which are derived
from existing data e.g. data sheets. Several individual uncertainties are
common in Stage 1 and Stage 2 and therefore cancel.
The procedure of forming the uncertainty budget is:
1) Compile lists of individual uncertainty contributions for TRP or TRS
measurement in both Stage 1 and Stage 2.
2) Determine the standard uncertainty of each contribution by
a) Determining the distribution of the uncertainty (Actual, U-shaped,
rectangular, etc.)
b) Determining the maximum value of each uncertainty (unless the distribution
is Actual)
c) Calculating the standard uncertainty by dividing the uncertainty by
$\sqrt{2}$ if the distribution is U-shaped, and by $\sqrt{3}$ if the
distribution is rectangular.
3) Convert the units (if necessary) of each uncertainty element into the chose
unit, i.e. dB.
4) Combine all the standard uncertainties by the root-sum-squares (RSS) method
to derive the 'combined standard uncertainty'.
5) Multiply the result by an expansion factor of 1.96 to derive expanded
uncertainty at 95% confidence level: $1.96 \cdot U_{c}$.
The combination of uncertainties is performed using dB values for simplicity.
It has been shown that using dB uncertainty values gives a slightly worse
combined uncertainty result than using linear values for the uncertainties.
The analysis method therefore errs on the safe side.
# B.2 Measurement uncertainty contribution descriptions
## B.2.1 Mismatch uncertainty
If the same chain configuration (e.g. including the measurement receiver; the
measurement antenna and other elements) is used in both stages, the
uncertainty is considered systematic and constant 0.00dB value.
If it is not the case, this uncertainty contribution has to be considered and
determined by the following methods.
### B.2.1.1 Mismatch uncertainty between measurement receiver / communication
tester and the measurement antenna
In a measurement configuration, when two elements (devices, networks...) are
connected, if the matching is not ideal, there is an uncertainty in the RF
level signal passing through the connection. The magnitude of the uncertainty
depends on the VSWR at the junction of the two connectors. In practical
measurement system there are probably several connections in a test set-up,
they will all interact and contribute to the combined mismatch uncertainty.
The total combined mismatch uncertainty is composed of 2 parts:
1) The mismatch through the connector between two elements.
2) The mismatch due to the interaction between two elements.
#### B.2.1.1.1 Mismatch uncertainty through the connector between two elements
Hereunder, a measurement configuration:
{width="5.291666666666667in" height="0.5104166666666666in"}
Figure B.2.1.1.1-1: Mismatch uncertainty through the connector
$\Gamma_{\text{MR}}$ is the complex reflection coefficient of the Measurement
Receiver. This term is also applicable to the communication tester.
$\Gamma_{cable4}$ is the complex reflection coefficient of the cable4.
$S_{21}$ is the forward gain in the network between the two reflection
coefficients of interest.
$S_{12}$ is the backward gain in the network between the two reflection
coefficients of interest.
Note that $S_{21}$ and $S_{12}$ are set to 1 if the two parts are directly
connected.
The uncertainty limits of the mismatch are calculated by means of the
following formula (equation 6.1 of [11]):
$$\text{Mismatch\ limits}\left( \%\ \text{voltage} \right) = \left|
\Gamma_{\text{MR}} \right| \cdot \left| \Gamma_{cable4} \right| \cdot \left|
S_{21} \right| \cdot \left| S_{12} \right| \cdot 100$$
These mismatch limits are divided by $\sqrt{2}$ (equation 6.2 of [11]) because
of the U-shaped distribution of the mismatch uncertainty and give the
following standard uncertainty:
$$U_{\text{mismatc}h}\left( \%\ \text{voltage} \right) = \frac{\left|
\Gamma_{\text{MR}} \right| \cdot \left| \Gamma_{\text{cable}4} \right| \cdot
\left| S_{21} \right| \cdot \left| S_{12} \right| \cdot 100}{\sqrt{2}}$$
To convert this standard uncertainty in dB, we divide it by the standard
uncertainty conversion factor (table 1 of [11]):
$$U_{\text{mismatc}h}\left( \text{dB} \right) = \frac{\left|
\Gamma_{\text{MR}} \right| \cdot \left| \Gamma_{\text{cable}4} \right| \cdot
\left| S_{21} \right| \cdot \left| S_{12} \right| \cdot 100}{\sqrt{2} \cdot
11.5}$$
#### B.2.1.1.2 Mismatch uncertainty due to the interaction of several elements
Previously, we presented how to determine the mismatch uncertainty between two
elements through the junction (connector). Now, we introduce the other type of
mismatch uncertainty, which is a result of the interaction between several
elements.
Hereunder, a measurement configuration:
{width="6.0625in" height="0.75in"}
Figure B.2.1.1.1.2-1: Mismatch uncertainty due to the interaction of several
elements
Firstly, we determine the mismatch uncertainty between junctions of the
elements:
Between the MR and the cable3:
$$U_{\text{mismatc}h1}\left( \text{dB} \right) = \frac{\left|
\Gamma_{\text{MR}} \right| \cdot \left| \Gamma_{cable3} \right| \cdot \left|
S_{21} \right| \cdot \left| S_{12} \right| \cdot 100}{\sqrt{2} \cdot 11.5}$$
Between the cable3 and the cable4:
$$U_{\text{mismatc}h2}\left( \text{dB} \right) = \frac{\left| \Gamma_{cable3}
\right| \cdot \left| \Gamma_{cable4} \right| \cdot \left| S_{21} \right| \cdot
\left| S_{12} \right| \cdot 100}{\sqrt{2} \cdot 11.5}$$
$\left| S_{21} \right|$ and $\left| S_{12} \right|$ are set to 1 because there
is no element between cable3 and cable 4.
$$U_{\text{mismatc}h1}\left( \text{dB} \right) = \frac{\left|
\Gamma_{\text{MR}} \right| \cdot \left| \Gamma_{cable3} \right| \cdot
100}{\sqrt{2} \cdot 11.5}$$
$$U_{\text{mismatc}h2}\left( \text{dB} \right) = \frac{\left| \Gamma_{cable3}
\right| \cdot \left| \Gamma_{cable4} \right| \cdot 100}{\sqrt{2} \cdot 11.5}$$
Each mismatch uncertainty due to the interaction between the measurement
receiver and the cable4 is determined by means of the following formula:
$$U_{\text{mismatc}h_ interaction1}\left( \text{dB} \right) = \frac{\left|
\Gamma_{\text{MR}} \right| \cdot \left| \Gamma_{\text{cable}4} \right| \cdot
\left| S_{21\text{Cable}3} \right| \cdot \left| S_{12\text{Cable}3} \right|
\cdot 100}{\sqrt{2} \cdot 11.5}$$
$\left| S_{21} \right|$ and $\left| S_{12} \right|$ are equal and correspond
to the cable3 attenuation.
$$U_{\text{mismatc}h_ interaction1}\left( \text{dB} \right) = \frac{\left|
\Gamma_{\text{MR}} \right| \cdot \left| \Gamma_{cable4} \right| \cdot \left|
S_{21Cable3} \right|^{2} \cdot 100}{\sqrt{2} \cdot 11.5}$$
We consider in the general case, the following measurement configuration:
{width="6.302083333333333in" height="0.7395833333333334in"}
Figure B.2.1.1.1.2-2: Mismatch uncertainty measurement configuration
In the general case, this uncertainty contribution can be calculated by:
$$U_{\text{mismatc}h_ interactionN}\left( \text{dB} \right) = \frac{\left|
\Gamma_{\text{MR}} \right| \cdot \left| \Gamma_{\text{antenna}} \right| \cdot
\left| S_{21cable1} \right| \cdot \left| S_{12cable1} \right| \cdot \text{…}
\cdot \left| S_{21cableN} \right| \cdot \left| S_{12cableN} \right| \cdot
100}{\sqrt{2} \cdot 11.5}$$
$\left| S_{21} \right| = \left| S_{12} \right|$ for passive elements
(cables...)
$$U_{\text{mismatc}h_ interactionN}\left( \text{dB} \right) = \frac{\left|
\Gamma_{\text{MR}} \right| \cdot \left| \Gamma_{\text{antenna}} \right| \cdot
\left| S_{21cable1} \right|^{2} \cdot \text{…} \cdot \left| S_{21cableN}
\right|^{2} \cdot 100}{\sqrt{2} \cdot 11.5}$$
#### B.2.1.1.3 Total combined mismatch uncertainty
The two kinds of mismatch uncertainty contributions are combined by the root-
sum-squares (RSS) method to derive the total combined mismatch uncertainty.
The total combined mismatch uncertainty is equal to:
$\sqrt{U_{\text{mismatc}h1}^{2} + \text{…} + U_{\text{mismatc}hN}^{2} +
U_{\text{mismatc}h_ interaction1}^{2} + \text{…} + U_{\text{mismatc}h_
interactionN}^{2}}$
This formula shows that the uncertainty is frequency dependent by the way of
the forward and the backward gains in the network between the two components.
The uncertainty upon $\left| S_{21} \right|$ and $\left| S_{12} \right|$
increases with frequency.
Note that for an anechoic chamber, horn antennas are frequently used as
measurement antennas. There are two kinds of horn antennas: single-polarized
and dual-polarized. With the second one, it is possible to measure the
co‑polarized and cross‑polarized signals without any movement of the
measurement antenna, which reduces the cable antenna uncertainty contribution
and improves the measurement stability.
To conduct the signals to the measurement receiver, the measurement system
configuration using a dual‑polarized horn antenna has to be completed with an
RF Relay. This device will include new mismatch uncertainty contributions,
which have to be determined with the previously presented calculation methods,
completed by the RF relay parameters contributions, and described in the
following.
### B.2.1.2 Mismatch uncertainty of the RF relay
If the same receiver chain configuration (including the measurement receiver;
the measurement antenna and other elements) is used in both stages, the
uncertainty is considered systematic and constant 0.00dB value.
If it is not the case, this uncertainty contribution has to be considered and
determined by the following method.
The following figure describes the RF Relay with its S-parameters and the
complex reflection coefficient of the inputs and output:
{width="5.15625in" height="3.5833333333333335in"}
Figure B.2.1.2-1: Mismatch uncertainty of the RF relay
The RF relay is used to switchover the cross and direct polarization signals
from the measurement antenna. To determine RF Relay mismatch uncertainty
contributions, reflection coefficients for each port and the cross-talk
attenuation have to be known.
The total combined mismatch uncertainty is composed of two parts:
1) The mismatch uncertainty contributions when the RF Relay switches on the
direct polarization signal
2) The mismatch uncertainty contributions when the RF Relay switches on the
cross-polarization signal
Each part is composed of two types of uncertainties introduced in the previous
paragraph: the mismatch through the connector between two elements and the
mismatch due to the interaction between several elements.
#### B.2.1.2.1 First part: RF Relay switched on the co-polarized signal
##### B.2.1.2.1.1 The mismatch through the connector between two elements
Between the Input1 and the port1:
$$U_{\text{mismatc}h1}\left( \text{dB} \right) = \frac{\left| \Gamma_{1}
\right| \cdot \left| S_{11} \right| \cdot 100}{\sqrt{2} \cdot 11.5}$$
Between the port3 and the Output:
$$U_{\text{mismatc}h2}\left( \text{dB} \right) = \frac{\left| \Gamma_{3}
\right| \cdot \left| S_{33} \right| \cdot 100}{\sqrt{2} \cdot 11.5}$$
Between the Input2 and the port2:
The RF Relay switchovers on the direct polarization signal. As a result, there
is no mismatch uncertainty contribution.
##### B.2.1.2.1.2 Mismatch due to the interaction between two elements or more
Between the Input1 and the Output:
$$U_{\text{mismatc}h_ interaction1}\left( \text{dB} \right) = \frac{\left|
\Gamma_{1} \right| \cdot \left| \Gamma_{3} \right| \cdot \left| S_{31} \right|
\cdot \left| S_{13} \right| \cdot 100}{\sqrt{2} \cdot 11.5}$$
Between the Input1 and the Input2:
$$U_{\text{mismatc}h_ interaction2}\left( \text{dB} \right) = \frac{\left|
\Gamma_{1} \right| \cdot \left| \Gamma_{2} \right| \cdot \left| S_{21} \right|
\cdot \left| S_{12} \right| \cdot 100}{\sqrt{2} \cdot 11.5}$$
The RF Relay switchovers on the cross-polarization signal. As a result; this
uncertainty contribution is usually disregarded because of the high crosstalk
attenuation which is characterized by $\left| S_{21} \right|$ and $\left|
S_{12} \right|$ S-parameters. If the crosstalk attenuation is low, this
uncertainty contribution has to be considered.
Between the Input2 and the Output:
$$U_{\text{mismatc}h_ interaction3}\left( \text{dB} \right) = \frac{\left|
\Gamma_{2} \right| \cdot \left| \Gamma_{3} \right| \cdot \left| S_{23} \right|
\cdot \left| S_{32} \right| \cdot 100}{\sqrt{2} \cdot 11.5}$$
The RF Relay switchovers on the cross polarization signal. As a result; this
uncertainty contribution is usually disregarded because of the high cross-talk
attenuation, which is characterized by $\left| S_{23} \right|$ and $\left|
S_{32} \right|$ S-parameters. If the crosstalk attenuation is low, this
uncertainty contribution has to be considered.
#### B.2.1.2.2 Second part: RF relay switched on the cross-polarized signal
##### B.2.1.2.2.1 The mismatch through the connector between two elements
Between the Input1 and the port1: the RF Relay switchovers on the direct
polarization signal. As a result, there is no mismatch uncertainty
contribution.
Between the port3 and the Output:
$$U_{\text{mismatc}h3}\left( \text{dB} \right) = \frac{\left| \Gamma_{3}
\right| \cdot \left| S_{33} \right| \cdot 100}{\sqrt{2} \cdot 11.5}$$
Between the Input2 and the port2:
$$U_{\text{mismatc}h4}\left( \text{dB} \right) = \frac{\left| \Gamma_{2}
\right| \cdot \left| S_{22} \right| \cdot 100}{\sqrt{2} \cdot 11.5}$$
##### B.2.1.2.2.2 Mismatch due to the interaction between two elements or more
Between the Input1 and the Output:
$$U_{\text{mismatc}h_ interaction4}\left( \text{dB} \right) = \frac{\left|
\Gamma_{1} \right| \cdot \left| \Gamma_{3} \right| \cdot \left| S_{31} \right|
\cdot \left| S_{13} \right| \cdot 100}{\sqrt{2} \cdot 11.5}$$
The RF Relay switchovers on the cross-polarization signal. As a result; this
uncertainty contribution is usually disregarded because of the high crosstalk
attenuation which is characterized by $\left| S_{31} \right|$ and $\left|
S_{13} \right|$ S-parameters. If the crosstalk attenuation is low, this
uncertainty contribution has to be considered.
Between the Input1 and the Input2:
$$U_{\text{mismatc}h_ interaction5}\left( \text{dB} \right) = \frac{\left|
\Gamma_{1} \right| \cdot \left| \Gamma_{2} \right| \cdot \left| S_{21} \right|
\cdot \left| S_{12} \right| \cdot 100}{\sqrt{2} \cdot 11.5}$$
The RF Relay switchovers on the cross-polarization signal. As a result; this
uncertainty contribution is usually disregarded because of the high crosstalk
attenuation which is characterized by $\left| S_{21} \right|$ and $\left|
S_{12} \right|$ S-parameters. If the crosstalk attenuation is low, this
uncertainty contribution has to be considered.
Between the Input2 and the Output:
$$U_{\text{mismatc}h_ interaction6}\left( \text{dB} \right) = \frac{\left|
\Gamma_{2} \right| \cdot \left| \Gamma_{3} \right| \cdot \left| S_{23} \right|
\cdot \left| S_{32} \right| \cdot 100}{\sqrt{2} \cdot 11.5}$$
#### B.2.1.2.3 Total combined mismatch uncertainty
Each non-zero mismatch uncertainty contribution from both parts (RF Relay
switched on the cross and direct polarization signal) are combined by the
root-sum-squares (RSS) method to derive the total combined mismatch
uncertainty.
The total combined mismatch uncertainty is equal to: [ ]{.underline}
$$\sqrt{U_{\text{mismatc}h1}^{2} + \text{…} + U_{\text{mismatc}hN}^{2} +
U_{\text{mismatc}h_ interaction1}^{2} + \text{…} + U_{\text{mismatc}h_
interactionN}^{2}}$$
If a RF Relay is used to drive the cross and direct polarization signals from
the dual-polarized antenna, this total combined mismatch uncertainty has to be
added with all the uncertainty measurement contributions for the total
combined measurement uncertainty.
## B.2.2 Insertion loss
### B.2.2.1 Insertion loss of the measurement antenna cable
If the measurement antenna cable does not move between the calibration and the
DUT measurement stage, the uncertainty due to the insertion loss of the cable
is assumed to be systematic. Moreover, this uncertainty is common and constant
in both stages and that is why this leads to 0.00dB value.
If a different cable is used in the calibration measurement and in the DUT
measurement, and the difference of the insertion loss is used in the
calculations, then the overall combined standard uncertainty of the insertion
loss measurement should be used in the uncertainty budget. The distribution of
this uncertainty is assumed to be rectangular, in which case the standard
uncertainty can be calculated as the maximum value divided by $\sqrt{3}$.
### B.2.2.2 Insertion loss of the measurement antenna attenuator (if used)
See Insertion loss of the measurement antenna cable
If the measurement antenna attenuator is used in both stages, the uncertainty
is considered systematic and constant 0.00dB value.
### B.2.2.3 Insertion loss of the RF relays (if used)
See Insertion loss of the measurement antenna cable.
If the RF relay is used in both stages, the uncertainty is considered
systematic and constant 0.00dB value.
### B.2.2.4 Insertion loss: calibration antenna feed cable
The feed cable of the calibration antenna only appears in Stage 1. As a
result, this uncertainty has to be considered.
This uncertainty will be measured or calculated from the manufacturer's data
in logs with a rectangular distribution (see clause 5.1.2 in [11]).
### B.2.2.5 Insertion loss: calibration antenna attenuator (if used)
If a calibration antenna attenuator is used, it only appears in Stage 1. As a
result, this uncertainty has to be considered.
This uncertainty will be calculated from the manufacturer's data in logs with
a rectangular distribution (see clause 5.1.2 in [11]).
## B.2.3 Influence of the antenna cable
### B.2.3.1 Measurement antenna cable
If the measurement antenna is directional (i.e. peak gain >+5dBi e.g. horn,
LPDA, etc.) and the same measurement antenna cable configuration is used for
both stages, the uncertainty is considered systematic and constant 0.00dB
value.
### B.2.3.2 Calibration antenna cable
If an efficiency calibration is performed, influence of the calibration
antenna feed cable can be assumed to be negligible, due to data averaging.
In the case of gain calibration, the influence of the calibration antenna feed
cable must be assessed by measurements. A gain calibration measurement is
repeated with a reasonably differing routing of the feed cable. Largest
difference between the results is entered to the uncertainty budget with a
rectangular distribution.
## B.2.4 Measurement receiver: uncertainty of the absolute level
The receiving device is used to measure the received signal level in TRP tests
either as an absolute level or as a relative level. Receiving device used is
typically a communication tester, spectrum nalyser (SA), or power meter (PM).
Generally, there occurs an uncertainty contribution from limited absolute
level accuracy and non-linearity.
This uncertainty will be determined from the manufacturer's datasheet and the
distribution used (see clause 5.1.2 in [11]) shall match that provided in the
datasheet. In the absence of a declared distribution in the datasheet, the
rectangular distribution should be used.
## B.2.5 Communication tester: uncertainty of the absolute level
The transmitter device (typically a communication tester or BS simulator) is
used to drive a signal to the measurement antenna in sensitivity tests either
as an absolute level or as a relative level. Receiving device used is the UE.
Generally, there occurs uncertainty contribution from limited absolute level
accuracy and non-linearity of the communication tester.
For practical reasons, the calibration measurement (Stage 1) should be only
performed with the measurement antenna as a receiver. Hence, the uncertainty
on the absolute level of the transmitter device cannot be assumed as
systematic. This uncertainty will be determined from the manufacturer's
datasheet and the distribution used (see clause 5.1.2 in [11]) shall match
that provided in the datasheet. In the absence of a declared distribution in
the datasheet, the rectangular distribution should be used. Furthermore, the
uncertainty of the non-linearity of the device is included in the absolute
level uncertainty.
## B.2.6 Sensitivity measurement: output level step resolution
When output power of the communication tester is swept to reach the throughput
target that defines the sensitivity threshold, used power step resolution
creates this uncertainty. Output power step used in the sensitivity
measurement is divided by factor 2 and then a rectangular distribution applied
to obtain the uncertainty.
## B.2.7 Measurement distance
The uncertainty contribution from a finite measurement distance is estimated
in three parts. The two three elements of mismatch uncertainty contributions
are combined by the root-sum-squares (RSS) method to derive the total combined
mismatch uncertainty.
### B.2.7.1 Offset of phase centre from axis(es) of rotation
#### B.2.7.1.1 Offset of DUT phase centre from axis(es) of rotation
In all the measurements defined in this test procedure the DUT and phantom
combination is rotated about the ear reference point of SAM phantom, which is
also assumed to be the location of the phase centre in both angular directions
of the measurements.
For some positioning systems this may be practically impossible in which case
a measurement uncertainty contribution can arise because the phase centre will
rotate on a non-zero radius about the centre of rotation, thereby giving a
variable measurement distance. Data averaging process may lead to a partial
self-cancel of this uncertainty.
The uncertainty limits of this effect are calculated by means of the following
formula (u~j22~ of [12]):
$$\text{Phase\ centre\ limits}\left( \% \right) = \frac{\pm \
\text{estimated}\ \text{offset}\ \text{from}\ the\ \text{axis}\ \text{of}\
\text{rotation}}{\text{range}\ \text{lengt}h} \cdot 100$$
Because of the phase center can be anywhere between the offset limits, the
distribution is assumed to have a rectangular and the phase center limit is
divided by $\sqrt{3}$giving the following standard uncertainty:
$$U_{\text{phase\ centre\ offset}}\left( \% \right) = \frac{\pm \ estimated\
offset\ from\ the\ axis\ of\ rotation}{range\ length \cdot \sqrt{3}} \cdot
100$$
To convert this standard uncertainty in dB, we divide it by the standard
uncertainty conversion factor (table 1 of [11]):
$$U_{\text{phase\ centre\ offset}}\left( \text{dB} \right) = \frac{\pm \
estimated\ offset\ from\ the\ axis\ of\ rotation}{\text{range\ length} \cdot
\sqrt{3} \cdot 11.5} \cdot 100$$
#### B.2.7.1.2 Offset of calibration antenna phase centre from axis(es) of
rotation
If a gain calibration is performed in Stage 1 with a directive antenna (e.g.
horn antenna), the uncertainty contribution of calibration antenna's phase
centre displacement is estimated by means of the following formula (u~j21~ of
[12]):
$$\text{Phase\ centre\ limits}\left( \% \right) = \frac{\pm \ \text{maximum}\
\text{dimension}\ \text{of}\ the\ \text{antenna}}{2 \cdot \text{range}\
\text{lengt}h} \cdot 100$$
Because of the phase center can be anywhere between the offset limits, the
distribution is assumed to have a rectangular distribution and the phase
center limit is divided by $\sqrt{3}$giving the following standard
uncertainty:
$$U_{\text{phase\ centre\ offset}}\left( \% \right) = \frac{\pm \ maximum\
dimension\ of\ the\ antenna}{2 \cdot range\ length \cdot \sqrt{3}} \cdot 100$$
To convert this standard uncertainty in dB, we divide it by the standard
uncertainty conversion factor (table 1 of [11]):
$$U_{\text{phase\ centre\ offset}}\left( \text{dB} \right) = \frac{\pm \
maximum\ dimension\ of\ the\ antenna}{2 \cdot range\ length \cdot \sqrt{3}
\cdot 11.5} \cdot 100$$
If a gain calibration is performed in Stage 1 with omnidirectional calibration
antenna (e.g. sleeve dipoles), uncertainty should be 0.00 dB provided that
care is taken in their positioning since the phase centre are easily
identifiable.
For an efficiency calibration with an omnidirectional calibration antenna, the
$U_{\text{phase\ centre\ offset}}$ is calculated similarly as for gain
calibration but the uncertainty may be divided by factor 2. This is due to
correcting impact of data averaging in this type of calibration.
### B.2.7.2 Mutual coupling
In measurement of radio performances of UMTS mobile phones in speech mode, the
mutual coupling uncertainty for this frequency band is a 0.00dB value (see
annex A.2 in [13]).
The 0.00dB value can be extended for NR FR1 band frequencies.
### B.2.7.3 Phase curvature
This uncertainty originates from the finite far-field measurement distance,
which causes phase curvature across the DUT. If the minimum measurement
distance is respected, this error is assumed to be negligible..
## B.2.8 Quality of quiet zone
The uncertainty contribution due to unwanted reflections and obstructions
within the anechoic chamber, including imperfect absorber treatments and the
impact of positioning equipment support structure, is determined from data
acquired using the ripple test methodology in clause 7.4. This data consists
of single-axis pattern cuts that represent the sum of direct and reflected
rays from a highly symmetrical omnidirectional radiation pattern measured at
various points throughout the test volume. The data must be measured in
sufficient spatial or angular resolution to accurately capture the peaks and
nulls of the pattern to within a small fraction of the overall ripple
contribution. In general, the worst-case peak-to-null ripple will reflect the
potential error in a peak EIRP or EIS measurement for an omnidirectional DUT
pattern located anywhere within the test volume. Note however that nulls in
the pattern can exhibit considerably larger errors due to reflected signals
being stronger than the line-of-sight signal from the null.
When measuring the range path loss in Stage 1 using a dipole pattern, the
associated measurement uncertainty may be determined from the peak-to-null
ripple, after relative path loss compensation, of a single radial offset
ripple test, where the range is configured as for range calibration (e.g. with
any extraneous support structure removed) using a rectangular distribution.
For spherically integrated quantities such as TRP and TRS, the peak-to-null
ripple would overestimate the measurement uncertainty due to the inherent
averaging of the various peaks and nulls as the spherical pattern is
integrated. In this case, the surface standard deviation (SSD) [15] is used to
obtain a statistical representation of the expected impact of ripple on the
integrated power from an isotropic radiator placed anywhere within the test
volume. Due to the impracticality of maintaining a constant path loss
reference between individual ripple test cuts, each resultant pattern is
treated individually and then the worst case SSD result is chosen as the
standard uncertainty of the quiet zone.
For the phi-axis ripple tests, the pattern can be considered an equatorial
(theta = 90°) cut of the isotropic pattern where every point has equal
weighting on an evenly spaced spherical surface. Thus, the standard deviation
of the single cut should be equivalent to the standard deviation of the entire
spherical surface. Defining $p_{k}$ _as the_ $k$_th ripple measurement point
in linear power units_ $\left( p_{k}\ = \ 10^{\left( \frac{P_{k}\left(
\text{dB} \right)}{10} \right)} \right)$_, and_ $\overline{p}$ as the average
of all $p_{k}$ _values in the associated ripple test, then the standard
deviation of the corresponding cut is given by:_
$$s\left( p_{k} \right) = \sqrt{\frac{1}{\left( N - 1 \right)}\sum_{k - 0}^{N
- 1}\left( \frac{p_{k}}{\overline{p}} - 1 \right)^{2}}$$
On the theta-axis ripple test each ripple test cut can be considered as a
great circle cut through an isotropic pattern with the symmetrical distortions
that would be produced by revolving the pattern about the phi (0-180°) axis.
Thus, it becomes apparent that ripple near the poles impacts a smaller total
surface area on the sphere than that near theta = 90 and 270°. In this case,
sin(theta) weighting is used to generate the spherical surface weighted
standard deviation as:
$$s\left( p_{k} \right)\ = \ \sqrt{\frac{1}{N - 1}\sum_{k = 0}^{N -
1}\left\lbrack \left( \left( \frac{p_{k}}{\overline{p}} - 1 \right)\sin\left(
\theta_{k} \right) \right)^{2} \right\rbrack}$$
Note that this equation simplifies to the previous equation when theta = 90°,
so the two formulations are in fact the same, regardless of which orientation
of the ripple test is used.
The standard uncertainty for the quiet zone ripple contribution to the TRP/TRS
measurement is then given by the maximum SSD from all of the ripple test
measurements.
## B.2.9 DUT Tx-power drift
A single point power reference measurement in the beginning and at the end of
the measurement procedure is recommended to monitor the power drift of the
DUT. Based on TX-power drift measurements for typical 3G UE, an uncertainty of
0.2 dB shall be entered to uncertainty budget with a rectangular distribution.
If the drift measurement indicates larger drift, the actual drift shall be
included to uncertainty.
_In order to minimize Tx-power drift error it is recommended to interleave
sensitivity and power measurement of multiple channels. This spreads the
measurements over a longer period, which helps to average the drift of the TX-
power._
Typical TX-power drifts of 3G UE, measured in a single angular point, DUT
placed against phantom head are shown in Figure B.2.9-1.
{width="6.354166666666667in" height="3.40625in"}
Figure B.2.9-1: Output power variation of typical 3G UE during battery life
## B.2.10 DUT sensitivity drift
Due to statistical uncertainty of sensitivity measurement, drift in the TRS
cannot be monitored similarly to TRP. An uncertainty value of 0.2dB can be
used with a rectangular distribution, or the TRS drift should be measured,
with a setup corresponding to the actual TRS measurement.
## B.2.11 Uncertainty related to the use of phantoms
### B.2.11.1 Uncertainty from using different types of SAM phantom
This uncertainty contribution originates from the fact that different
laboratories may use the two different versions of SAM head: the SAM head
phantom or the SAM phantom including the head and the shoulders. The standard
SAM head is the specified phantom. However, the use of the other type of SAM
is also allowed with the requirement that the resulting uncertainty
contribution is considered in the uncertainty budget.
### B.2.11.2 Simulated tissue liquid uncertainty
This uncertainty will occur, if the laboratory uses a liquid which has
dielectric parameters deviating more than ±15% of the target parameters.
### B.2.11.3 Uncertainty of dielectric properties and shape of the hand
phantom
The hand phantom contributes to OTA measurement uncertainty due to the
manufacturing tolerances of its dielectric properties and shape. The
dielectric properties on the surface of the hand may differ from those of its
interior, so both are included in the evaluation. The moulded exterior surface
of the hand shall be measured directly with an open-ended coaxial probe. The
interior hand material is evaluated indirectly, by substituting a cube-shaped
sample moulded from the same material and having some exterior surfaces
removed. Following procedure will be used to evaluate the dielectric
properties of the hand phantom;
1\. Each hand shall be manufactured together with a reference cube of the same
material. The sides of the reference cube shall be not less than 40 mm in
length.
2\. The moulded surface on three orthogonal sides of the cube shall be sliced
away to a depth of at least 3 mm, in order to expose interior material for
evaluation. The remaining three sides of the cube shall be left untreated.
3\. Relative permittivity and conductivity shall be measured at ten different
points on each of the three cut, exposed surfaces of the reference cube, and
the combined interior averages (${\varepsilon_{\text{int}}}_{\text{avg}}$,
$\sigma_{\text{int}_{\text{avg}}}$, 30 points) and standard deviations
(${\varepsilon_{\text{int}}}_{\text{std}}$,$\sigma_{\text{int}_{\text{std}}}$,30
points) shall be calculated. Individual interior averages for each of these
three sides (${\varepsilon_{\text{int}}}_{i}$,$\sigma_{\text{int}_{i}}$,10
points) shall also be calculated.
4\. Relative permittivity and conductivity shall be measured at ten points on
the hand phantom exterior. A measurement point shall be located to each
fingertip or as close to the tip as applicable. One measurement point shall be
located to the back of the hand and one to the inner surface of wrist area.
The exterior averages ($\varepsilon_{ext_ avg}$, $\sigma_{ext_ avg}$, 10
points) and standard deviations ($\varepsilon_{ext_ std}$, $\sigma_{ext_
std}$, 10 points) calculated accordingly.
5\. The total averages ($\varepsilon_{\text{avg}}$ , $\sigma_{\text{avg}}$)
shall be calculated as the average of exterior and interior values by either
evaluating all data points or using equations :
$$\varepsilon_{\text{avg}} = \frac{\varepsilon_{ext_ avg} + 3 \cdot
\varepsilon_{int_ avg}}{4}$$
$$\sigma_{\text{avg}} = \frac{\sigma_{ext_ avg} + 3 \cdot \sigma_{int_
avg}}{4}$$
6\. The total standard deviations ($\varepsilon_{\text{std}}$ ,
$\sigma_{\text{std}}$) shall be calculated as the statistical combination of
exterior and interior values by either evaluating all data points or using
equations:
$$\varepsilon_{\text{std}} = \sqrt{\frac{1}{4}\left( \varepsilon_{ext_
std}^{2} + \varepsilon_{ext_ avg}^{2} + 3*\left( \varepsilon_{int_ std}^{2} +
\varepsilon_{int_ avg}^{2} \right) \right) - \varepsilon_{\text{avg}}^{2}}$$
$$\sigma_{\text{std}} = \sqrt{\frac{1}{4}\left( \sigma_{ext_ std}^{2} +
\sigma_{ext_ avg}^{2} + 3*\left( \sigma_{int_ std}^{2} + \sigma_{int_ avg}^{2}
\right) \right) - \sigma_{\text{avg}}^{2}}$$
7\. The hands are acceptable for radiated performance testing, i.e., meet the
minimal requirements, if
a. $\varepsilon_{\text{avg}}\ $deviates by less than 15% from the target
values
b. $\sigma_{\text{avg}}$ deviates by less than 25% from the target values
c. the difference between the averaged permittivity of each 10-point interior
surface $\varepsilon_{int_ avg}$ deviates by less than 10% and
$\varepsilon_{ext_ avg}$ by less than 20% from the total average
$\varepsilon_{\text{avg}}$
d. the difference between the averaged conductivity of each 10-point interior
surface$\sigma_{int_ avg}$ deviates by less than 20% and $\sigma_{ext_ avg}$
by less than 30% from the total average $\sigma_{\text{avg}}$
e. the standard deviation of the combined measurements (30 interior points and
10 exterior points) is less than 20% for permittivity
$\varepsilon_{\text{std}}$ and less than 40% for conductivity
$\sigma_{\text{std}}$
8\. For the hands meeting the minimal requirements of step 7, the following
approximations shall be used to determine the hand uncertainty due to
dielectric properties.
$$U_{\varepsilon}\left( \text{dB} \right) = c_{1} \cdot \left\lbrack
10\log_{10}\left( 1 + \left|
\frac{\sqrt{\mathrm{\Delta}\varepsilon_{\text{avg}}^{2} +
\varepsilon_{\text{unc}}^{2} + \left( a_{1}\varepsilon_{\text{std}}
\right)^{2}}}{\varepsilon} \right| \right) \right\rbrack$$
$$U_{\sigma}\left\lbrack \text{dB} \right\rbrack = c_{2} \cdot \left\lbrack
10\log_{10}\left( 1 + \left|
\frac{\sqrt{\mathrm{\Delta}\sigma_{\text{avg}}^{2} + \sigma_{\text{unc}}^{2} +
\left( a_{1}\sigma_{\text{std}} \right)^{2}}}{\varepsilon} \right| \right)
\right\rbrack$$
> ${\mathrm{\Delta}\varepsilon}_{\text{avg}}$,
> $\mathrm{\Delta}\sigma_{\text{avg}}$, $\varepsilon_{\text{std}}$,
> $\sigma_{\text{std}}$ are the values determined as defined above and
> $\varepsilon_{\text{unc}}$ and $\sigma_{\text{unc}}$ are expanded
> measurement uncertainties (k = 2) of the dielectric parameter measurement
> method. The cube will be provided together with the hand such that the user
> can evaluate if the interior (cube) properties of the hand has degenerated
> over time by performing the test above. Coefficient $c_{1} = 0.78$, $c_{2} =
> 0.39$ and $a_{1} = 0.50$ were determined by numeric simulations.
In case the hand phantoms are manufactured within CAD models, the tolerance is
2% and therefore the effects shape errors are negligible. If the tolerance is
larger, a numerical study must be conducted.
### B.2.11.4 Uncertainty from using different types of Laptop Ground Plane
phantom
This uncertainty contribution originates from the fact that different
laboratories may use different variations of Laptop Ground Plane phantom. The
standard Laptop Ground Plane is the specified phantom.
## B.2.12 Coarse sampling grid
Decreasing of sampling density to finite number of samples affects the
measurement uncertainty by two different errors. First is due to inadequate
number of samples and second is a systematic discrimination approximation
error in TRP and TRS equations.
Figure B.2.12-1 shows simulated sampling grid errors for typical 3G UE.
Approximation error is not included. Simulations are based on thin plate
surface interpolation of real radiation patterns, measured beside a phantom
head.
{width="5.5in" height="3.375in"}
Figure B.2.12-1: Simulated TPR/TRS error as a function of sampling grid
The offset of systematic approximation error can be expressed by using formula
$$Offset = 10\log_{10}\left( \frac{\pi}{2N}\sum_{n - 1}^{N}{\sin\left(
\theta_{n} \right)} \right)$$
where
$N$ is number of angular intervals in elevation,
$\theta_{n}$ is elevation.
{width="5.5in" height="3.3645833333333335in"}
Figure B.2.12-2: Approximation error of TRP/TRS
The 15° sampling grid used in TRP measurements has been shown to introduce
only very small differences as compared to the results obtained with denser
grids, so with that sampling grid the uncertainty contribution can assumed
negligible.
When using sample step size of 15° - 30°, standard uncertainty of 0.15dB can
be assumed to cover errors. If step size >30° is used, larger uncertainty
should be considered.
## B.2.13 Random uncertainty
The random uncertainty characterizes the undefined and miscellaneous effects
which cannot be forecasted. One can estimate this type of uncertainty with a
repeatability test by making a series of repeated measurement with a reference
DUT without changing anything in the measurement setup.
The random uncertainty differs from one laboratory to another. Moreover, each
DUT has its own electromagnetic behaviour and random uncertainty. Some
uncertainty also occurs from the positioning of the DUT against the SAM
phantom, as the DUT cannot be attached exactly in the same way every time.
This uncertainty depends on how much the DUT's positioning against the SAM
phantom and hand phantoms varies from the specified testing positions. It is
noted that the uncertainty of the phone positioning depends on the phone
holder and the measurement operator and is in fact difficult to distinguish
from random uncertainty. Some uncertainty also occurs from the positioning of
the DUT plugged into the Laptop Ground Plane phantom, as the DUT may not be
plugged into the USB connector and positioned exactly in the same way every
time. This uncertainty depends on how much the DUT's position plugged into the
Laptop Ground Plane phantom varies from the specified plug-in position.
Therefore, the positioning uncertainty is included in random uncertainty.
To estimate this uncertainty for the SAM phantom, it is suggested to perform
at least five evaluations of TRP/TRS whereby the device shall be dismounted
and newly positioned with a fully charged battery before each test. This
measurement set has to be carried out in mid channel of lowest and highest
frequency bands utilized by the testing lab, for at least three phones with
different type of mechanical design. The values have to be normalized by the
mean for each measurement set. As a result, the uncertainty contribution
entered to uncertainty budget is the difference between the maximum and
minimum normalized values.
With head and hand phantoms, random uncertainty evaluation may be done
separately for each measurement configuration i.e. head only, browsing mode or
speech mode. A speech mode random uncertainty evaluation, were both head and
hand phantoms are used, can reasonably be considered to be the worst-case
scenario and thus random uncertainties in other configurations to be less.
To estimate this uncertainty for the Laptop Ground Plane phantom, it is
suggested to perform at least five evaluations of TRP/TRS for the plug-in
position whereby the device shall be dismounted and newly positioned before
each test. This measurement set has to be carried out in mid channel of lowest
and highest frequency bands utilized by the testing lab, for at least three
USBs with different type of mechanical design. The values have to be
normalized by the mean for each measurement set. As a result, the uncertainty
contribution entered to uncertainty budget is the difference between the
maximum and minimum normalized value.
## B.2.14 Frequency response
Test systems might not be able to ensure flat frequency response across the
entire channel bandwith required for testing (e.g. up to 100MHz for NR FR1).
When a frequency response correction based on the results from the system
calibration measurements in Stage 1 is not possible or practical, this
uncertainty has to be considered.
This uncertainty term can be estimated as described in [14] using the
following formula:
$$\varepsilon_{j} = 10\log\left( \frac{\sum_{k = j - \frac{N}{2}}^{j +
\frac{N}{2}}\text{PL}_{k}}{\left( N + 1 \right)\text{PL}_{j}} \right)$$
where $\varepsilon_{j}\ $is the expected relative error in the average power
result for a given channel in dB, $\text{PL}j$, is the linear path loss at the
center frequency of the given channel, $\text{PL}k$, is the linear path loss
at each frequency point across the corresponding channel, and _N_ is the
number of frequency steps across a given channel bandwidth. The maximum
deviation $\varepsilon_{j}\ $across all of the possible channels in a band
shall be used to estimate the required frequency response uncertainty
contribution with a rectangular distribution.
This error may be removed directly at each frequency, _f~j~_ , by using the
average path loss across the channel as the range loss correction rather than
the path loss at the center frequency as described in [14].
For sensitivity measurements, this effect is included in the output level step
resolution.
## B.2.15 Uncertainty of network nalyser
This uncertainty includes the all uncertainties involved in the S21
measurement with a network nalyser, and will be determined from the
manufacturer's datasheet and the distribution used (see clause 5.1.2 in [11])
shall match that provided in the datasheet. In the absence of a declared
distribution in the datasheet, the rectangular distribution should be used.
## B.2.16 Uncertainty of the gain/efficiency of the calibration antenna
The calibration antenna only appears in Stage 1. Therefore, the
gain/efficiency uncertainty has to be considered.
This uncertainty will be determined from the manufacturer's datasheet and the
distribution used (see clause 5.1.2 in [11]) shall match that provided in the
datasheet. In the absence of a declared distribution in the datasheet, the
rectangular distribution should be used. Alternatively, the uncertainty could
come from a calibration report with traceability to a National Metrology
Institute with measurement uncertainty budgets generated following the
guidelines outlined in internationally accepted standards
If the manufacturer's data do not give the information, the value has to be
checked, see annex A.12 in [13].
# B.3 Total Radiated Power (TRP)
The uncertainty contributions related to TRP are listed in Table B.3-1. A
preliminary example uncertainty budget is presented in Table B.3-2.
Table B.3-1 Uncertainty contributions in TRP measurement for anechoic chamber
method
**UID** **Description of uncertainty contribution** **Details in clause**
* * *
**Stage 2: DUT measurement (Figure 7.2-1, Figure 7.2-2)**  
1 Mismatch of receiver chain B.2.1 2 Insertion loss of receiver chain B.2.2 3
Influence of the measurement antenna cable B.2.3 4 Measurement Receiver:
uncertainty of the absolute level B.2.4 5 Measurement distance B.2.7 6 Quality
of quiet zone B.2.8 7 DUT Tx-power drift B.2.9 8 Uncertainty related to the
use of phantoms B.2.11 9 Coarse sampling grid B.2.12 10 Random uncertainty
B.2.13 11 Frequency Response B.2.14 **Stage 1: Calibration measurement,
network analyzer method (Figure 7.3-1)**  
12 Uncertainty of network analyzer B.2.15 13 Mismatch of receiver chain B.2.1
14 Insertion loss of receiver chain B.2.2 15 Mismatch in the connection of
calibration antenna B.2.1 16 Influence of the calibration antenna feed cable
B.2.3 17 Influence of the measurement antenna cable B.2.3 18 Uncertainty of
the absolute gain/ radiation efficiency of the calibration antenna B.2.16 19
Measurement distance B.2.7 20 Quality of the Quiet Zone B.2.8
Table B.3-2 Preliminary example of uncertainty budget for TRP hand only
(browsing mode) measurement for anechoic chamber method for NR FR1 bands
**UID** **Uncertainty Source** **Comment** **Uncertainty Value [dB]** **Prob
Distr** **Div** **ci** **Standard Uncertainty [dB]**
* * *
**Stage 2: DUT measurement**  
1 Mismatch of receiver chain Г~power\ meter~ \ cancels) 0 Rectangular 1.73 1 0.00 3 Influence of the
measurement antenna cable Systematic with Stage 1 (=> cancels) 0 Rectangular
1.73 1 0.00 4 Measurement Receiver: uncertainty of the absolute level Power
Meter 0.06 Rectangular 1.73 1 0.03 5 Measurement distance d=1.6m, Δd=0.05m
0.27 Rectangular 1.73 1 0.16 6 Quality of quiet zone Surface standard
deviation of power measurements in ripple test 0.5 Actual 1 1 0.50 7 DUT Tx-
power drift Drift 0.2 Rectangular 1.73 1 0.12 8 Uncertainty related to the use
of phantoms _U~ε~_ [dB] = 0.20 U~σ~ [dB] = 0.15 0.32 Rectangular 1.73 1 0.18 9
Coarse sampling grid Negligible 15° sampling grid 0 Actual 1 1 0.00 10 Random
Uncertainty Monoblock, clamshell and PDA design used for testing 0.81
Rectangular 1.73 1 0.47 11 Frequency Response Average path loss corrected 0
Rectangular 1.73 1 0.00 **Stage 1: Calibration measurement, network analyzer
method**  
12 Uncertainty of network analyzer Manufacturer's uncertainty 0.5 Rectangular
1.73 1 0.29 13 Mismatch of receiver chain Taken into account in VNA
uncertainty term 0 U-shaped 1.41 1 0.00 14 Insertion loss of receiver chain
Systematic with Stage 2 (=> cancels) 0 Rectangular 1.73 1 0.00 15 Mismatch in
the connection of calibration antenna Taken in to account in VNA setup
uncertainty 0 U-shaped 1.41 1 0.00 16 Influence of the calibration antenna
feed cable Gain calibration with a dipole 0.3 Rectangular 1.73 1 0.17 17
Influence of the measurement antenna cable Systematic with Stage 2 (=>
cancels) 0 Rectangular 1.73 1 0.00 18 Uncertainty of the absolute gain/
radiation efficiency of the calibration antenna Calibration certificate 0.5
Rectangular 1.73 1 0.29 19 Measurement distance Dipole: aligned with phase
center 0 Rectangular 1.73 1 0.00 20 Quality of the Quiet Zone Peak-to-null
ripple 0.5 Rectangular 1.73 1 0.29 **Combined standard uncertainty** **0.91**  
**Expanded uncertainty (Confidence interval of 95 %)** **1.78**
# B.4 Total Radiated Sensitivity (TRS)
The uncertainty contributions related to TRS are listed in Table B.4-1. A
preliminary _example uncertainty budget is presented in Table B.4-2._
Table B.4-1 Uncertainty contributions in TRS measurement for anechoic chamber
method
**UID** **Description of uncertainty contribution** **Details in clause**
* * *
**Stage 2: DUT measurement (Figure 7.2-1, Figure 7.2-2)**  
1 Mismatch of transmitter chain B.2.1 2 Insertion loss of transmitter chain
B.2.2 3 Influence of the measurement antenna cable B.2.3 4 Communication
Tester: uncertainty of the absolute output level B.2.5 5 Sensitivity
measurement: output level step resolution B.2.6 6 Measurement distance B.2.7 7
Quality of quiet zone B.2.8 8 DUT sensitivity drift B.2.10 9 Uncertainty
related to the use of phantoms B.2.11 10 Coarse sampling grid B.2.12 11 Random
uncertainty B.2.13 12 Frequency Response B.2.14 **Stage 1: Calibration
measurement, network analyzer method (Figure 7.3-1)**  
13 Uncertainty of network analyzer B.2.15 14 Mismatch of transmitter chain
B.2.1 15 Insertion loss of transmitter chain B.2.2 16 Mismatch in the
connection of calibration antenna B.2.1 17 Influence of the calibration
antenna feed cable B.2.3 18 Influence of the measurement antenna cable B.2.3
19 Uncertainty of the absolute gain/radiation efficiency of the calibration
antenna B.2.16 20 Measurement distance B.2.7 21 Quality of quiet zone B.2.8
Table B.4-2: Preliminary example of uncertainty budget for TRS hand only
(browsing mode) measurement for anechoic chamber method for NR FR1 bands
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | **U | * |** U | * | ** | * | **Sta | | UID** | ncert | _Comm | ncert |_ Prob | Div**| *ci** | ndard | | | ainty | ent**| ainty | Di | | | U | | | Sou | | Value | str** | | | ncert | | | rce**| | [d | | | | ainty | | | | | B]** | | | | [d | | | | | | | | | B]**| +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | ** | | | | | | | | | Stage | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | DUT | | | | | | | | | mea | | | | | | | | | surem | | | | | | | | | ent** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | Mis | Г~C | 0.07 | U-s | 1.41 | 1 | 0.05 | | | match | ommTe | | haped | | | | | | of | ster~ | | | | | | | | t | \ | | | | | | | | ransm |  | | | | | | | | itter | can | | | | | | | | chain | cels) | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | Infl | Syste | 0 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.00 | | | uence | matic | | ectan | | | | | | of | with | | gular | | | | | | the | Stage | | | | | | | | m | 1 | | | | | | | | easur | (=> | | | | | | | | ement | can | | | | | | | | an | cels) | | | | | | | | tenna | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | Com | Manu | 1 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.58 | | | munic | factu | | ectan | | | | | | ation | rer's | | gular | | | | | | Te | data | | | | | | | | ster: | sheet | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | ncert | | | | | | | | | ainty | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | abs | | | | | | | | | olute | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | utput | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | S | Step | 0.25 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.14 | | | ensit | of | | ectan | | | | | | ivity | 0.5 | | gular | | | | | | me | dB | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ment: | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | utput | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | step | | | | | | | | | resol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 | M | d= | 0.27 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.16 | | | easur | 1.6m, | | ectan | | | | | | ement | Δd= | | gular | | | | | | dis | 0.05m | | | | | | | | tance | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 7 | Qu | Su | 0.5 | A | 1 | 1 | 0.5 | | | ality | rface | | ctual | | | | | | of | sta | | | | | | | | quiet | ndard | | | | | | | | zone | devi | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | ipple | | | | | | | | | test | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 8 | DUT | Drift | 0.2 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.12 | | | s | m | | ectan | | | | | | ensit | easur | | gular | | | | | | ivity | ement | | | | | | | | drift | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 9 | U | * | 0.32 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.18 | | | ncert | U~ε~_| | ectan | | | | | | ainty | \ | | gular | | | | | | re | [dB] | | | | | | | | lated | = | | | | | | | | to | 0.20 | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | use | U~σ~ | | | | | | | | of | \ | | | | | | | | pha | [dB] | | | | | | | | ntoms | = | | | | | | | | | 0.15 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 10 | C | 30° | 0.15 | A | 1 | 1 | 0.15 | | | oarse | sam | | ctual | | | | | | sam | pling | | | | | | | | pling | grid | | | | | | | | grid | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 11 | R | Monob | 0.91 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.53 | | | andom | lock, | | ectan | | | | | | u | clam | | gular | | | | | | ncert | shell | | | | | | | | ainty | and | | | | | | | | | PDA | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | te | | | | | | | | | sting | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 12 | Freq | Inc | 0 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.00 | | | uency | luded | | ectan | | | | | | Res | in | | gular | | | | | | ponse | the | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | utput | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | step | | | | | | | | | resol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | | | | | | | | | Stage | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | | alibr | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ment, | | | | | | | | | ne | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | ana | | | | | | | | | lyzer | | | | | | | | | met | | | | | | | | | hod_ _| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 13 | U | Manu | 0.5 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.29 | | | ncert | factu | | ectan | | | | | | ainty | rer's | | gular | | | | | | of | u | | | | | | | | ne | ncert | | | | | | | | twork | ainty | | | | | | | | ana | c | | | | | | | | lyzer | alcul | | | | | | | | | ator, | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | overs | | | | | | | | | NA | | | | | | | | | setup | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 14 | Mis | Taken | 0 | U-s | 1.41 | 1 | 0.00 | | | match | in to | | haped | | | | | | of | ac | | | | | | | | t | count | | | | | | | | ransm | in | | | | | | | | itter | VNA | | | | | | | | chain | setup | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | ncert | | | | | | | | | ainty | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 15 | Inse | Syste | 0 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.00 | | | rtion | matic | | ectan | | | | | | loss | with | | gular | | | | | | of | Stage | | | | | | | | t | 2 | | | | | | | | ransm | (= > | | | | | | | | itter | can | | | | | | | | chain | cels) | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 16 | Mis | Taken | 0 | U-s | 1.41 | 1 | 0.00 | | | match | in to | | haped | | | | | | in | ac | | | | | | | | the | count | | | | | | | | conne | in | | | | | | | | ction | VNA | | | | | | | | of | setup | | | | | | | | c | u | | | | | | | | alibr | ncert | | | | | | | | ation | ainty | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | tenna | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 17 | Infl | Gain | 0.3 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.17 | | | uence | c | | ectan | | | | | | of | alibr | | gular | | | | | | the | ation | | | | | | | | c | with | | | | | | | | alibr | d | | | | | | | | ation | ipole | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | tenna | | | | | | | | | feed | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 18 | Infl | Syste | 0 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.00 | | | uence | matic | | ectan | | | | | | of | with | | gular | | | | | | the | Stage | | | | | | | | m | 2 | | | | | | | | easur | (=> | | | | | | | | ement | can | | | | | | | | an | cels) | | | | | | | | tenna | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 19 | U | C | 0.5 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.29 | | | ncert | alibr | | ectan | | | | | | ainty | ation | | gular | | | | | | of | c | | | | | | | | the | ertif | | | | | | | | abs | icate | | | | | | | | olute | | | | | | | | | gain/ | | | | | | | | | radi | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | effic | | | | | | | | | iency | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | alibr | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | tenna | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | M | Di | 0 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.00 | | | easur | pole: | | ectan | | | | | | ement | al | | gular | | | | | | dis | igned | | | | | | | | tance | with | | | | | | | | | phase | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | enter | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 21 | Qu | Pe | 0.5 | R | 1.73 | 1 | 0.29 | | | ality | ak-to | | ectan | | | | | | of | -null | | gular | | | | | | quiet | r | | | | | | | | zone | ipple | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | __Com |__1 | | | | | | | | bined | .12_ _| | | | | | | | sta | | | | | | | | | ndard | | | | | | | | | unc | | | | | | | | | ertai | | | | | | | | | nty_ _| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |__Exp |__2 | | | | | | | | anded | .20_ _| | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | ncert | | | | | | | | | ainty | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | Confi | | | | | | | | | dence | | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | | erval | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | 95 | | | | | | | | | %)_ * | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
# **Annex C: Environmental requirements**
# C.1 Scope
The requirements in this clause apply to all types of UE(s) in FR1 for SA and
EN-DC mode.
# C.2 Ambient temperature
All the test cases defined in this technical report should be measured in room
temperature e.g. 25°C.
# C.3 Operating voltage
For FR1 TRP TRS, test cases shall be performed with the DUT operated in stand-
alone battery powered mode. It is preferable if the UE is fully charged in the
beginning of the Test.
# **Annex D: Phantom Definition**
# D.1 Head Phantom
The basic head phantom is based on the "SAM" head phantom in IEEE Std
1528-2003, which is also described in TS 37.544 Annex A.2 [17]. For TRP TRS
test, the IEEE SAM head model has been extended with the neck region, which is
specified in CTIA Certification OTA Test Plan [14].
The Head phantom defined in CTIA Certification OTA Test Plan section C.2 [14],
is used for FR1 TRP TRS testing in this technical report.
{width="4.266701662292213in" height="1.9242432195975503in"}
Figure D.1-1 Head Phantom (© 2001 -- 2022 CTIA Certification. Reproduced with
permission.), defined in the CTIA Certification OTA Test Plan
# D.2 Hand Phantom
## D.2.1 PDA Grip Hand
The PDA Grip Hand described in TS 37.544 Annex A.2.2 [17], which is identical
to that defined in CTIA Certification OTA Test Plan section C.4.8 [14], is
adopted for TRP TRS testing for the UE with width ≥56mm and ≤72mm.
## D.2.2 Wide Grip Hand
The Wide Grip hand defined in CTIA Certification OTA Test Plan section C.4.9
[14], is used for FR1 TRP TRS testing for UE with Width >72mm and ≤92mm in
this technical report.
{width="3.3309339457567804in" height="2.42296697287839in"}
Figure D.2.2-1 Wide Grip hand (© 2001 -- 2022 CTIA Certification. Reproduced
with permission.), defined in the CTIA Certification OTA Test Plan
# **Annex E: Configurations for multi-antenna UE**
# E.1 Test methodology and configurations for UE with UL Tx Diversity
This clause defines the OTA test methodology for UE working at Tx Diversity
mode, the test method is FFS. FFS whether ULFPTx is considered or not.
# E.2 Test methodology and configurations for UE with Tx antenna switch ON
The UE antenna switch mechanism depends on various of the influenced factors
which may trigger the software algorithm to decide antenna switching status.
The considered influenced factors with priority are described in Table E.2-1.
Table E.2-1 The influenced factors with priority for Tx antenna switch ON
Factor ID Potential Influence factors Priority
* * *
Factor 1 Downlink Rx signal High Factor 2 Near-body/object sensor Low Factor 3
USIM card setting Low Factor 4 Base station signalling TBD Factor 5 Particular
optimization algorithms TBD Factor 6 Efficacy of the TAS ON methodology (i.e.
ability to rank devices based on lab test to be correlated to ranking based on
field performance) NA
Note: Other influenced factors, if any, will be included in future releases.
For the high priority influenced factor, i.e. Downlink Rx signal, the
potential effective approach to trigger Tx antenna switch algorithm is that
combining the measurement antenna and the link antenna to be one unified
antenna in the OTA chamber (FFS the downlink signal power level and control
algorithm). Furthermore, introducing a dwell or wait time between the change
in DL direction and the power measurement to ensure the switching state stable
in the measurement procedure will be considered.
The test method for Tx antenna switch ON is FFS.
# E.3 Test methodology and configurations for UE with multi antenna receivers
For TRS measurement, no specific setting is needed for Rx antennas, as
described in Clause 8.3.2.
# **Annex F (informative): Change history**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **C | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hist | | | | | | | | | ory** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **D | * |** T | * | ** | ** | **Su |** New | | ate**| *Meet | doc** | _CR_ _| Rev_ _| Cat_ _| bject | vers | | | ing_ _| | | | | /Comm | ion_ _| | | | | | | | ent_ * | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4\ | R4-21 | | | | In | 0.0.1 | | 21-05 | #99-e | 08625 | | | | itial | | | | | | | | | Ske | | | | | | | | | leton | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | R | R4-21 | | | | I | 0.1.0 | | 21-08 | AN4# | 13985 | | | | mplem | | | | 100-e | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | text | | | | | | | | | prop | | | | | | | | | osal: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 13975 | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | TR3 | | | | | | | | | 8.834 | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | ge | | | | | | | | | neral | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | pects | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | R | R4-21 | | | | I | 0.2.0 | | 21-11 | AN4# | 19176 | | | | mplem | | | | 101-e | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | test | | | | | | | | | propo | | | | | | | | | sals: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 19178 | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | TR3 | | | | | | | | | 8.834 | | | | | | | | | on UE | | | | | | | | | coord | | | | | | | | | inate | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 20686 | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8.834 | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | ge | | | | | | | | | neral | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | pects | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | param | | | | | | | | | eters | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 20688 | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8.834 | | | | | | | | | on SA | | | | | | | | | test | | | | | | | | | setup | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | alibr | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | proc | | | | | | | | | edure | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 20691 | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8.834 | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | erfor | | | | | | | | | mance | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | trics | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4\ | R4-22 | | | | I | 0.3.0 | | 22-01 | #101- | 02049 | | | | mplem | | | | bis-e | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | test | | | | | | | | | propo | | | | | | | | | sals: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | [R | | | | | | | | | 4-220 | | | | | | | | | 0450] | | | | | | | | | (http | | | | | | | | | s://w | | | | | | | | | ww.3g | | | | | | | | | pp.or | | | | | | | | | g/ftp | | | | | | | | | /TSG_ | | | | | | | | | RAN/W | | | | | | | | | G4_Ra | | | | | | | | | dio/T | | | | | | | | | SGR4_ | | | | | | | | | 101-b | | | | | | | | | is-e/ | | | | | | | | | Docs/ | | | | | | | | | R4-22 | | | | | | | | | 00450 | | | | | | | | | .zip) | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8.834 | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | P-MPR | | | | | | | | | han | | | | | | | | | dling | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | [R | | | | | | | | | 4-220 | | | | | | | | | 0935] | | | | | | | | | (http | | | | | | | | | s://w | | | | | | | | | ww.3g | | | | | | | | | pp.or | | | | | | | | | g/ftp | | | | | | | | | /TSG_ | | | | | | | | | RAN/W | | | | | | | | | G4_Ra | | | | | | | | | dio/T | | | | | | | | | SGR4_ | | | | | | | | | 101-b | | | | | | | | | is-e/ | | | | | | | | | Docs/ | | | | | | | | | R4-22 | | | | | | | | | 00935 | | | | | | | | | .zip) | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8.834 | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | erfor | | | | | | | | | mance | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | trics | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | [R | | | | | | | | | 4-220 | | | | | | | | | 1649] | | | | | | | | | (http | | | | | | | | | s://w | | | | | | | | | ww.3g | | | | | | | | | pp.or | | | | | | | | | g/ftp | | | | | | | | | /TSG_ | | | | | | | | | RAN/W | | | | | | | | | G4_Ra | | | | | | | | | dio/T | | | | | | | | | SGR4_ | | | | | | | | | 101-b | | | | | | | | | is-e/ | | | | | | | | | Docs/ | | | | | | | | | R4-22 | | | | | | | | | 01649 | | | | | | | | | .zip) | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8.834 | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | ske | | | | | | | | | leton | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | B | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-22 | | | | | | | | | 03069 | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8.834 | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | multi | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | tenna | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-220 | | | | | | | | | 3071 | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8.834 | | | | | | | | | on SA | | | | | | | | | TRP | | | | | | | | | TRS | | | | | | | | | test | | | | | | | | | proc | | | | | | | | | edure | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-220 | | | | | | | | | 3072 | | | | | | | | | Discu | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | Text | | | | | | | | | Prop | | | | | | | | | osals | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | EN-DC | | | | | | | | | TRP | | | | | | | | | TRS | | | | | | | | | test | | | | | | | | | proc | | | | | | | | | edure | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-220 | | | | | | | | | 3073 | | | | | | | | | Discu | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | Text | | | | | | | | | Prop | | | | | | | | | osals | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | param | | | | | | | | | eters | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | R | R4-22 | | | | I | 0.4.0 | | 22-03 | AN4# | 05491 | | | | mplem | | | | 102-e | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | test | | | | | | | | | propo | | | | | | | | | sals: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-22 | | | | | | | | | 04954 | | | | | | | | | Rappo | | | | | | | | | rteur | | | | | | | | | input | | | | | | | | | to TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8.834 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-22 | | | | | | | | | 04959 | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8.834 | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | Ph | | | | | | | | | antom | | | | | | | | | defin | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-22 | | | | | | | | | 05731 | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8.834 | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | P-TRS | | | | | | | | | test | | | | | | | | | proc | | | | | | | | | edure | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-22 | | | | | | | | | 05826 | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8.834 | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | tents | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | B | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-22 | | | | | | | | | 07320 | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8.834 | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | Env | | | | | | | | | ironm | | | | | | | | | ental | | | | | | | | | cond | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-22 | | | | | | | | | 07321 | | | | | | | | | Discu | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | TP on | | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | erfor | | | | | | | | | mance | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | trics | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-22 | | | | | | | | | 07324 | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8.834 | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | ipple | | | | | | | | | test | | | | | | | | | proc | | | | | | | | | edure | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-22 | | | | | | | | | 07325 | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8.834 | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | | | tance | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-22 | | | | | | | | | 07329 | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8.834 | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | mul | | | | | | | | | ti-an | | | | | | | | | tenna | | | | | | | | | UE | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN\ | RP-2 | | | | Pres | 1.0.0 | | 22-03 | #95-e | 20785 | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | RAN | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | roval | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN\ | RP-2 | | | | Edit | 1.0.1 | | 22-03 | #95-e | 20859 | | | | orial | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | orrec | | | | | | | | | tions | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
**Change history**
* * *