# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is related to Study on NR Sidelink Relay with a scope as
defined in [2].
The document describes NR enhancements to support sidelink relay, which were
analyzed as part of the study such as **sidelink-based UE-to-Network and UE-
to-UE Relay** , and **discovery model/procedure for sidelink relaying.**
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP RP-193253 \"New SID: Study on NR sidelink relay\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.303 \"Proximity-based services (ProSe);Stage 2 \".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.300 \"NR; Overall description; Stage-2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 38.321 \"NR;Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\".
[6] 3GPP TR 23.752 \"Study on system enhancement for Proximity based Services
(ProSe) in the 5G System (5GS)\".
[7] 3GPP TR 36.746 \" Study on further enhancements to LTE Device to Device
(D2D), UE to network relays for Internet of Things (IoT) and wearables\".
[8] RP-202208, Revised SID: Study on NR Sidelink Relay.
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**UE-to-Nework Relay:** A relaying architecture where a Relay UE relays the
traffic between a Remote UE and network.
**UE-to-UE Relay:** A relaying architecture where a Relay UE relays the
traffic between a first Remote UE (i.e., source UE) and a second Remote UE
(i.e, destination UE).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
L2 Layer-2
L3 Layer-3
# 4 **Sidelink-based UE-to-Network Relay**
## 4.1 Scenarios, Assumptions and Requirements
The UE-to-Network Relay enables coverage extension and power saving for the
Remote UE. The coverage scenarios considered in this study are the following:
\- UE-to-Network Relay UE is in coverage and Remote UE is out of coverage
\- UE-to-Network Relay UE and Remote UE are both in coverage
\- For L3 UE-to-Network Relay, Relay UE and Remote UE can be in the same cell
or different cells, after Remote UE establishes connection via Relay UE
\- For L2 UE-to-Network Relay, it is supported as baseline that after Remote
UE connects via Relay UE, Relay UE and Remote UE are controlled by the Relay
UE\'s serving cell
For L2 UE-to-Network Relay, both cases below are supported, i.e.
\- Before remote connection via Relay UE, Relay UE and Remote UE are in the
same cell;
\- Before remote connection via Relay UE, Relay UE and Remote UE are in
different cells;
**The considered scenarios are reflected in Figure 4.1-1.**
Figure 4.1-1: Scenarios for UE-to-Network Relay
**NR Uu is assumed on the Uu link of the UE-to-Network Relay UE. NR sidelink
is assumed on PC5 between the Remote UE(s) and the UE-to-Network Relay UE.**
**Cross-RAT configuration/control of UE (Remote UE or UE-to-Network Relay UE)
is not considered, i.e.,** eNB/ng-eNB do not control/configure an NR Remote UE
and UE-to-Network Relay UE**.** For UE-to-Network Relay, the study focuses on
unicast data traffic between the Remote UE and the Network.
Configuring/scheduling of a UE (Remote UE or UE-to-Network Relay UE) by the SN
to perform NR sidelink communication **is out of scope of this study.**
For UE-to-Network Relay, relaying of unicast data between the Remote UE and
the network can occur after a PC5-RRC connection is established between the
Relay UE and the Remote UE.
The Uu RRC state of the Relay UE and Remote UE can change when connected via
PC5. Both Relay UE and Remote UE can perform relay discovery in any RRC state.
A Remote UE can perform relay discovery while out of Uu coverage.
A Relay UE must be in RRC_CONNECTED to perform relaying of unicast data.
For L2 UE-to-Network Relay:
\- Remote UE(s) must be in RRC CONNECTED to perform transmission/reception of
relayed unicast data.
\- The Relay UE can be in RRC_IDLE, _RRC_INACTIVE_ or RRC_CONNECTED as long as
all the PC5-connected Remote UE(s) are in RRC_IDLE.
\- The Relay UE can be in _RRC_INACTIVE_ or RRC_CONNECTED as long as all the
PC5-connected Remote UE(s) are in _RRC_INACTIVE._
For L3 UE-to-Network Relay, both Relay UE and Remote UE can be in RRC_INACTIVE
state.
The requirement of service continuity is only for UE-to-Network Relay, but not
for UE-to-UE Relay in this release.
RAN2 have studied the mobility scenario of \"between direct (Uu) path and
indirect (via the relay) path\" for UE-to-Nework relay. RAN2 focus on the
mobility scenarios of intra-gNB cases in the study phase, and assume the
inter-gNB cases will also be supported. For the inter-gNB cases, compared to
the intra-gNB cases, potential different parts on Uu interface in details can
be discussed in the WI phase.RAN2 deprioritize work specific to the mobility
scenario of \"between indirect (via a first Relay UE) and indirect (via a
second Relay UE)\" for path switching in the SI phase, which can be studied in
the WI phase, if needed.
RAN2 deprioritize the group mobility scenario in the SI phase, which may be
discussed in WI phase, if needed.
## 4.2 Discovery
Model A and model B discovery model as defined in clause 5.3.1.2 of TS 23.303
[3] are supported for UE-to-Network Relay. The protocol stack of discovery
message is described in Figure 4.2-1.
Figure 4.2-1: Protocol Stack of Discovery Message for UE-to-Network Relay
For Relay UE of UE-to-Network Relay:
\- The Relay UE needs to be within a minimum and a maximum Uu signal strength
threshold(s) if provided by gNB before it can transmit discovery message when
in RRC_IDLE or in RRC_INACTIVE state.
\- Relay UE is allowed to transmit discovery message based on NR sidelink
communication configuration provided by gNB in all RRC states.
\- Relay UE supporting L3 UE-to-Network Relay is allowed to transmit discovery
message based on at least pre-configuration when it is connected to a gNB
which is not capable of sidelink relay operation, in case its serving carrier
is not shared with carrier for sidelink operation.
\- Relay UE supporting L2 UE-to-Network Relay should be always connected to a
gNB which is capable of sidelink relay operation including providing
configurations for transmission of discovery messages.
For Remote UE of UE-to-Network Relay:
\- The Remote UE in RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE state is allowed to transmit
discovery message if measured signal strength of serving cell is lower than a
configured threshold.
\- Whether Remote UE in RRC_CONNECTED is allowed to transmit discovery is
based on configuration provided by serving gNB. _The detail of configuration
provided by serving gNB can be discussed in WI phase._
\- No additional network configuration is needed for Uu measurement by Remote
UE in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE.
\- Remote UE out of coverage is always allowed to transmit discovery message
based on pre-configuration while not connected with network through a Relay UE
yet.
\- Remote UE supporting UE-to-Network Relay is allowed to transmit discovery
message based on at least pre-configuration when it is directly connected to a
gNB which is not capable of sidelink relay operation, in case its serving
carrier is not shared with SL carrier.
\- For Remote UE supporting L3 UE-to-Network Relay which is out of coverage
and connected to a gNB indirectly, it is not feasible for the serving gNB to
provide radio configuration to transmit discovery message.
\- For Remote UE supporting L2 UE-to-Network Relay which is out of coverage
and connected to a gNB indirectly, whether it is allowed to transmit discovery
message based on configuration provided by the gNB can be discussed in WI
phase.
The detailed definition of a gNB which is not capable of sidelink relay
operation can be left for WI phase but at least should include the case that
the gNB does not provide SL relay configuration, e.g., no discovery
configuration.
Resource pool to transmit discovery message can be either shared with or
separated from resource pool for data transmission:
\- For both shared resource pool and separated resource pool, a new LCID is
introduced for discovery message, i.e., discovery message is carried by a new
SL SRB.
\- Within separated resource pool, discovery messages are treated equally with
each other during the LCP procedure.
## 4.3 Relay (re-)selection criterion and procedure
The baseline solution for relay (re-)selection is as follow:
Radio measurements at PC5 interface are considered as part of relay
(re)selection criteria.
\- Remote UE at least use the radio signal strength measurements of sidelink
discovery messages to evaluate whether PC5 link quality of a Relay UE
satisfies relay selection and reselection criterion.
\- When Remote UE is connected to a Relay UE, it may use SL-RSRP measurements
on the sidelink unicast link to evaluate whether PC5 link quality with the
Relay UE satisfies relay reselection criterion.
Further details on the PC5 radio measurements criteria, e.g., in case of no
transmission on the sidelink unicast link can be discussed in WI phase. How to
perform RSRP measurement based on RSRP of discovery message and/or SL-RSRP if
Remote UE has PC5-RRC connection with Relay UE can be decided in WI phase.
For relay selection, as in LTE, an in-coverage Remote UE searches for a
candidate Relay UE if direct Uu link quality of the Remote UE is below a
configured threshold.
For relay (re-)selection, Remote UE compares the PC5 radio measurements of a
Relay UE with the threshold which is configured by gNB or preconfigured.
Higher layer criteria also need to be considered by Remote UE for relay
(re-)selection, but details can be left to SA2 to decide. Relay (re-)selection
can be triggered by upper layers of Remote UE.
Relay reselection should be triggered if the NR Sidelink signal strength of
current Sidelink relay is below a (pre)configured threshold. Also, relay
reselection may be triggered if RLF of PC5 link with current Relay UE is
detected by Remote UE.
The above-described baseline for relay (re)selection apply to both L2 and L3
solutions. But for RRC_CONNECTED Remote UE connected through L2 UE-to-Network
Relay scenario, gNB decision on relay selection/reselection is considered in
WI phase under the above baseline. Additional AS layer criteria can be
considered in WI phase for both L2 and L3 UE-to-Network Relay solutions.
For relay (re-)selection, when Remote UE has multiple suitable Relay UE
candidates which meet all AS-layer & higher layer criteria and Remote UE need
to select one Relay UE by itself, it is up to Remote UE implementation to
choose one Relay UE. This does not exclude gNB involvement in service
continuity for UE-to-Network Relay scenarios.
## 4.4 Relay/Remote UE authorization
It is concluded that no impact on RAN2 is foreseen due to authorization of
both Relay UE and Remote UE. The impact on RAN3, if any, will be done in WI
phase for UE-to-Network Relay only.
## 4.5 Layer-2 Relay
### 4.5.1 Architecture and Protocol Stack
#### 4.5.1.1 Protocol Stack
The protocol stacks for the user plane and control plane of L2 UE-to-Network
Relay architecture are described in Figure 4.5.1.1-1 and Figure 4.5.1.1-2 for
the case where adaptation layer is not supported at the PC5 interface, and
Figure 4.5.1.1-3 and Figure 4.5.1.1-4 for the case where adaptation layer is
supported at the PC5 interface.
For L2 UE-to-Network Relay, the adaptation layer is placed over RLC sublayer
for both CP and UP at the Uu interface between Relay UE and gNB. The Uu
SDAP/PDCP and RRC are terminated between Remote UE and gNB, while RLC, MAC and
PHY are terminated in each link (i.e. the link between Remote UE and UE-to-
Network Relay UE and the link between UE-to-Network Relay UE and the gNB).
Whether the adaptation layer is also supported at the PC5 interface between
Remote UE and Relay UE is left to WI phase (assuming down-selection first
before studying too much on the detailed PC5 adaptation layer
functionalities).
Figure 4.5.1.1-1: User plane protocol stack for L2 UE-to-Network Relay\
(adaptation layer is not supported at the PC5 interface)
Figure 4.5.1.1-2: Control plane protocol stack for L2 UE-to-Network Relay\
(adaptation layer is not supported at the PC5 interface)
Figure 4.5.1.1-3: User plane protocol stack for L2 UE-to-Network Relay\
(adaptation layer is supported at the PC5 interface)
Figure 4.5.1.1-4: Control plane protocol stack for L2 UE-to-Network Relay\
(adaptation layer is supported at the PC5 interface)
#### 4.5.1.2 Adaptation layer functionality
For L2 UE-to-Network Relay, for uplink:
\- The Uu adaptation layer at Relay UE supports UL bearer mapping between
ingress PC5 RLC channels for relaying and egress Uu RLC channels over the
Relay UE Uu path. For uplink relaying traffic, the different end-to-end RBs
(SRB, DRB) of the same Remote UE and/or different Remote UEs can be subject to
N:1 mapping and data multiplexing over one Uu RLC channel.
\- The Uu adaptation layer is used to support Remote UE identification for the
UL traffic (multiplexing the data coming from multiple Remote UE). The
identity information of Remote UE Uu Radio Bearer and Remote UE is included in
the Uu adaptation layer at UL in order for gNB to correlate the received data
packets for the specific PDCP entity associated with the right Remote UE Uu
Radio Bearer of a Remote UE.
For L2 UE-to-Network Relay, for downlink:
\- The Uu adaptation layer can be used to support DL bearer mapping at gNB to
map end-to-end Radio Bearer (SRB, DRB) of Remote UE into Uu RLC channel over
Relay UE Uu path. The Uu adaptation layer can be used to support DL N:1 bearer
mapping and data multiplexing between multiple end-to-end Radio Bearers (SRBs,
DRBs) of a Remote UE and/or different Remote UEs and one Uu RLC channel over
the Relay UE Uu path.
\- The Uu adaptation layer needs to support Remote UE identification for
Downlink traffic. The identity information of Remote UE Uu Radio Bearer and
the identity information of Remote UE needs be put into the Uu adaptation
layer by gNB at DL in order for Relay UE to map the received data packets from
Remote UE Uu Radio Bearer to its associated PC5 RLC channel.
### 4.5.2 QoS
gNB implementation can handle the QoS breakdown over Uu and PC5 for the end-
to-end QoS enforcement of a particular session established between Remote UE
and network in case of L2 UE-to-Network Relay. Details of handling in case PC5
RLC channels with different end-to-end QoS are mapped to the same Uu RLC
channel can be discussed in WI phase.
### 4.5.3 Security
As described in clause 6.7.2.8 of TR 23.752, in case of L2 UE-to-Network
Relay, the security (confidentiality and integrity protection) is enforced at
the PDCP layer between the endpoints at the Remote UE and the gNB. The PDCP
traffic is relayed securely over two links, one between the Remote UE and the
UE-to-Network Relay UE and the other between the UE-to-Network Relay UE to the
gNB.
### 4.5.4 Service Continuity
#### 4.5.4.0 General
L2 UE-to-Nework Relay uses the RAN2 principle of the Rel-15 NR handover
procedure as the baseline AS layer solution to guarantee service continuit,
i.e. gNB hands over the Remote UE to a target cell or target Relay UE,
including:
1) Handover preparation type of procedure between gNB and Relay UE (if
needed);
2) RRCReconfiguration to Remote UE, Remote UE switching to the target, and;
3) Handover complete message, similar to the legacy procedure.
Exact content of the messages (e.g. handover command) can be discussed in WI
phase. This does not imply that we will send inter-node message over Uu.
Below, the common parts of intra-gNB cases and inter-gNB cases are captured.
For the inter-gNB cases, compared to the intra-gNB cases, potential different
parts on RAN2 Uu interface in details can be discussed in WI phase.
#### 4.5.4.1 Switching from indirect to direct path
For service continuity of L2 UE-to-Network relay, the following baseline
procedure is used, in case of Remote UE switching to direct Uu cell.
Figure 4.5.4.1-1: Procedure for Remote UE switching to direct Uu cell
Step 1: Measurement configuration and reporting
Step 2: Decision of switching to a direct cell by gNB
Step 3: RRC Reconfiguration message to Remote UE
Step 4: Remote UE performs Random Access to the gNB
Step 5: Remote UE feedback the RRCReconfigurationComplete to gNB via target
path, using the target configuration provided in the RRC Reconfiguration
message.
Step 6: RRC Reconfiguration to Relay UE
Step 7: The PC5 link is released between Remote UE and the Relay UE, if
needed.
Step 8: The data path switching.
NOTE: The order of step 6/7/8 is not restricted. Following are further
discussed in WI phase, including:\ \- Whether Remote UE suspends data
transmission via relay link after step 3;\ \- Whether Step 6 can be before or
after step 3 and its necessity;\ \- Whether Step 7 can be after step 3 or step
5, and its necessity/replaced by PC5 reconfiguration;\ \- Whether Step 8 can
be after step 5.
#### 4.5.4.2 Switching from direct to indirect path
For service continuity of L2 UE-to-Network Relay, the following baseline
procedure is used, in case of Remote UE switching to indirect Relay UE:
Figure 4.5.4.2-1: Procedure for Remote UE switching to indirect Relay UE
Step 1: Remote UE reports one or multiple candidate Relay UE(s), after Remote
UE measures/discoveries the candidate Relay UE(s).
\- Remote UE may filter the appropriate Relay UE(s) meeting higher layer
criteria when reporting, in step 1.
\- The reporting may include the Relay UE\'s ID and SL RSRP information, where
the measurement on PC5 details can be left to WI phase, in step 1.
Step 2: Decision of switching to a target Relay UE by gNB, and target
(re)configuration is sent to Relay UE optionally (like preparation).
Step 3: RRC Reconfiguration message to Remote UE. Following information may be
included: 1) Identity of the target Relay UE; 2) Target Uu and PC5
configuration.
Step 4: Remote UE establishes PC5 connection with target Relay UE, if the
connection has not been setup yet.
Step 5: Remote UE feedback the RRCReconfigurationComplete to gNB via target
path, using the target configuration provided in RRCReconfiguration.
Step 6: The data path switching.
NOTE: Following are further discussed in WI phase, including:\ \- Whether Step
2 should be after Relay UE connects to the gNB (e.g. after step 4), if not yet
before;\ \- Whether Step 4 can be before step 2/3.
### 4.5.5 Control Plane Procedure
#### 4.5.5.1 Connection Management
Remote UE needs to establish its own PDU sessions/DRBs with the network before
user plane data transmission.
PC5-RRC aspects of Rel-16 NR V2X PC5 unicast link establishment procedures can
be reused to setup a secure unicast link between Remote UE and Relay UE for L2
UE-to-Network relaying before Remote UE establishes a Uu RRC connection with
the network via Relay UE.
For both in-coverage and out-of-coverage cases, when the Remote UE initiates
the first RRC message for its connection establishment with gNB, the PC5 L2
configuration for the transmission between the Remote UE and the UE-to-Network
Relay UE can be based on the RLC/MAC configuration defined in specifications.
The establishment of Uu SRB1/SRB2 and DRB of the Remote UE is subject to
legacy Uu configuration procedures for L2 UE-to-Network Relay.
The following high level connection establishment procedure applies to L2 UE-
to-Network Relay:
Figure 4.5.5.1-1: Procedure for Remote UE connection establishment
Step 1. The Remote and Relay UE perform discovery procedure, and establish
PC5-RRC connection using the legacy Rel-16 procedure as a baseline.
Step 2. The Remote UE sends the first RRC message (i.e., _RRCSetupRequest_)
for its connection establishment with gNB via the Relay UE, using a default L2
configuration on PC5. The gNB responds with an _RRCSetup_ message to Remote
UE. The _RRCSetup_ delivery to the Remote UE uses the default configuration on
PC5. If the Relay UE had not started in RRC_CONNECTED, it would need to do its
own connection establishment upon reception of a message on the default L2
configuration on PC5. The details for Relay UE to forward the
_RRCSetupRequest_ /_RRCSetup_ message for Remote UE at this step can be
discussed in WI phase.
Step 3. The gNB and Relay UE perform relaying channel setup procedure over Uu.
According to the configuration from gNB, the Relay/Remote UE establishes an
RLC channel for relaying of SRB1 towards the Remote UE over PC5. This step
prepares the relaying channel for SRB1.
Step 4. Remote UE SRB1 message (e.g. an _RRCSetupComplete_ message) is sent to
the gNB via the Relay UE using SRB1 relaying channel over PC5. Then the Remote
UE is RRC connected over Uu.
Step 5. The Remote UE and gNB establish security following legacy procedure
and the security messages are forwarded through the Relay UE.
Step 6. The gNB sets up additional RLC channels between the gNB and Relay UE
for traffic relaying. According to the configuration from gNB, the
Relay/Remote UE sets up additional RLC channels between the Remote UE and
Relay UE for traffic relaying. The gNB sends an _RRCReconfiguration_ to the
Remote UE via the Relay UE, to set up the relaying SRB2/DRBs. The Remote UE
sends an _RRCReconfigurationComplete_ to the gNB via the Relay UE as a
response.
Besides the connection establishment procedure, for L2 UE-to-Network relay:
\- The RRC reconfiguration and RRC connection release procedures can reuse the
legacy RRC procedure, with the message content/configuration design left to WI
phase.
\- The RRC connection re-establishment and RRC connection resume procedures
can reuse the legacy RRC procedure as baseline, by considering the above
connection establishment procedure of L2 UE-to-Network Relay to handle the
relay specific part, with the message content/configuration design left to WI
phase.
#### 4.5.5.2 Paging
The Option 2 as studied in TR36.746 [7] for FeD2D paging is selected as the
baseline paging relaying solution for L2 UE-to-Network relaying case (i.e.
Relay UE monitors the Remote UE\'s Paging Occasion(s) in addition to its own
Paging Occasion(s).) . The paging relaying solution applies to both CN paging
and RAN paging via the Option 2.
#### 4.5.5.3 System Information Delivery
Relay UE can forward the system information to Remote UE via broadcast,
groupcast, or dedicated PC5-RRC signalling. The detailed mechanisms of
broadcast, groupcast and PC5-RRC signalling design and what system information
can be relayed to Remote UEs can be discussed in WI phase.
On-demand SI request is supported for Remote UE for all RRC states
(Idle/Inactive/Connected state). DedicatedSIBRequest procedure is re-used for
the Remote UE in RRC_CONNECTED to request SI via the Relay UE. For the Remote
UE in RRC_IDLE/RRC_INACTIVE, how on-demand SI procedure differs from legacy
can be discussed in the WI phase.
A Remote UE (IC or OOC) can request/receive SI via the Relay UE when PC5-RRC
connected to a Relay UE. Reception via Uu for IC Remote UE can be discussed in
the WI phase.
#### 4.5.5.4 Access control
For L2 UE-to-Network relay, the Relay UE may provide UAC parameters to Remote
UE. The access control check is performed at Remote UE using the parameters of
the cell it intends to access. The UE-to-Network Relay UE does not perform
access control check for the Remote UE\'s data.
## 4.6 Layer-3 Relay
### 4.6.1 Architecture and Protocol Stack
SA2 captured two user plane protocol stacks for L3 UE-to-Network Relay in TR
23.752 (Figure 6.6.1-2 of solution#6 and Figure 6.23.2-3 of solution#23),
which are illustrated in Figure 4.6.1-1 and Figure 4.6.1-2. No impacts are
identified to support them from RAN2 perspective.
Figure 4.6.1-1: user plane protocol stack of L3 UE-to-Network Relay captured
in solution#6 of [6]
Figure 4.6.1-2: user plane protocol stack of L3 UE-to-Network Relay captured
in solution#23 of [6]
SA2 captured control plane protocol stacks of L3 UE-to-Network Relay in
solution#6 of TR 23.752 [6]. RAN2 leaves its design to SA2.
For N3IWF solution (i.e. solution#23 captured in TR 23.752 [6]),
\- RAN2 understanding is that Remote UE\'s NAS is sent over PC5/Uu-DRB. If any
AS impact of NAS transport in solution#23 is identified by SA2, RAN2 can
further discuss it in WI phase.
\- For the IP header overhead of L3 UE-to-Network Relay with N3IWF, RAN2
conclude that outer IP header on each hop can be compressed by ROHC \"ESP/IP
profile\", but the inner IP header can\'t be compressed by the AS layer, whose
impact could be evaluated by SA2.
### 4.6.2 QoS
The basic QoS support mechanism for L3 UE-to-Network Relay is illustrated in
Figure 4.6.2-1 from TR 23.752 [6].
Figure 4.6.2-1: basic QoS support mechanism of L3 UE-to-Network Relay captured
in [6]
SA2 captured two solutions for QoS support of L3 UE-to-Network Relay:
1) Separate Uu QoS parameters and PC5 QoS parameters as in option-2 of
solution#25 of TR 23.752 [6].
2) End-to-End QoS support in solution#24 of TR 23.752 [6], where Relay UE can
obtain a mapping between PQI and 5QI from SMF/PCF.
No AS impact is identified for SA2 QoS solution#24 and #25 captured in TR
23.752 [6], for which legacy PC5-RRC procedure can be reused. RAN2 can
consider in WI phase SA2 conclusions on QoS solutions, including whether it is
sufficient to enforce E2E QoS via legacy PC5-RRC reconfiguration of SLRB and
resource allocation.
Remote UE doesn\'t need to provide information on which QoS flows need to be
relayed to UE-to-Network Relay UE in AS layer. RAN2 don\'t intend to study QoS
enhancement for L3 UE-to-Network Relay. And RAN2 don\'t intend to study the
forward compatibility solution for multi-hop support.
Whether other QoS solutions (e.g., whether gNB can perform PDB split) are
introduced depends on SA2.
### 4.6.3 Security
SA2 captured two solutions for security support of L3 UE-to-Network Relay:
1) Via legacy Uu security and PC5 security;
2) Via N3IWF in solution #23 of TR 23.752 [6];
Solution#23 of TR 23.752 [6] with N3IWF is feasible to meet end-to-end
security requirements.
Whether the SA2 captured solutions can satisfy the security requirement
depends on SA3.
### 4.6.4 Service Continuity
For service continuity in L3 UE-to-Network relay, RAN2 makes working
assumption that no AS layer solution will be studied to guarantee the service
continuity, and leave it to the upper layer (e.g. application layer) solution.
This does not exclude studying some enhancements in mobility scenario for
other purposes.
### 4.6.5 Control Plane Procedure
Figure 4.6.5-1: basic connection setup procedure of L3 UE-to-Network Relay
based on Figure 6.6.2-1 of [6]
The basic connection setup procedure is illustrated in Figure 4.6.5-1 which is
based on Figure 6.6.2-1 in TS 23.752 [6]. Among them, the following procedures
are identified with RAN2 impacts:
\- Step 2: the discovery procedure, which is described in Clause 4.2.
\- Step 3: the relay (re)selection procedure, which is described in Clause
4.3.
\- Step 4: Rel-16 NR V2X PC5-RRC establishment procedure is reused to setup a
secure unicast link between Remote UE and Relay UE before unicast traffic
relaying.
Further AS impacts (if any) can be discussed in WI phase.
Whether new PC5-S signaling is also introduced depends on SA2.
# 5 **Sidelink-based UE-to-UE Relay**
## 5.1 Scenario, Assumption and Requirement
The UE-to-UE Relay enables the coverage extension of the sidelink
transmissions between two sidelink UEs and power saving. The coverage
scenarios considered in this study are the following:
1) All UEs (Source UE, Relay UE, Destination UE) are in coverage.
2) All UEs (Source UE, Relay UE, Destination UE) are out-of-coverage.
3) Partial coverage whereby at least one of the UEs involved in relaying
(Source UE, Relay UE, Destination UE) is in-coverage, and at least one of the
UEs involved in relaying is out-of-coverage.
RAN2 will strive for a common solution to the in- and out-of-coverage cases.
For the UE-to-UE Relay, the scenario where UEs can be in coverage of the
different cell is supported.
Figure 5.1-1 shows the scenarios considered for UE-to-UE Relay. In Figure
5.1-1, coverage implies that the Source/Destination UE and/or UE-to-UE Relay
UE are in coverage and can access the network on Uu.
Figure 5.1-1: Scenarios for UE-to-UE Relay (where the coverage status is not
shown)
NR sidelink is assumed on PC5 between the Remote UE(s) and the UE-to-UE Relay.
**Cross-RAT configuration/control of** Source UE, UE-to-UE Relay and
Destination UE **is not considered, i.e.,** eNB/ng-eNB do not
control/configure an NR Source UE, Destination UE or UE-to-UE Relay UE**.**
For UE-to-UE Relay, this study focuses on unicast data traffic between the
Source UE and the Destination UE.
Configuring/scheduling of a UE (Source UE, Destination UE or UE-to-UE Relay
UE) by the SN to perform NR sidelink communication is out of scope of this
study**.**
For UE-to-UE Relay, it is assumed that the Remote UE has an active end-to-end
connection via only a single Relay UE at a given time.
**Relaying of data between a Source UE and a Destination UE can occur once a
PC5 link is established between the Source UE, UE-to-UE Relay, and Destination
UE.**
No restrictions are assumed on the RRC states of any UEs involved in UE-to-UE
Relaying.
The requirement of service continuity is only for UE-to-Network Relay, but not
for UE-to-UE Relay, during mobility in this release.
## 5.2 Discovery
Model A and model B discovery model as defined in clause 5.3.1.2 of TS 23.303
[3] are supported for UE-to-UE Relay, and integrated PC5 unicast link
establishment procedure can be supported based on SA2 conclusion. The protocol
stack of discovery message is described in Figure 5.2-1.
Figure 5.2-1: Protocol Stack of Discovery Message for UE-to-UE Relay
Relay UE or Remote UE is allowed to transmit discovery message when triggered
by upper layer.
Both Remote UE and Relay UE can rely on pre-configuration unless relevant
radio configuration is provided by network, either via system information or
dedicated signalling.
Resource pool to transmit discovery message can be either shared with or
separated from resource pool for data transmission.
\- For both shared resource pool and separated resource pool, a new LCID is
introduced for discovery message i.e. discovery message is carried by a new SL
SRB.
\- Within separated resource pool discovery messages are treated equally with
each other during LCP procedure.
## 5.3 Relay (re-)selection criteria and procedure
The baseline solution for relay (re-)selection is as follow:
Radio measurements at PC5 interface are considered as part of relay
(re)selection criteria.
\- Remote UE at least uses the radio signal strength measurements of sidelink
discovery messages to evaluate whether PC5 link quality of a Relay UE
satisfies relay selection and reselection criterion.
\- When Remote UE is connected to a Relay UE, it may use SL-RSRP measurements
on the sidelink unicast link to evaluate whether PC5 link quality with the
Relay UE satisfies relay reselection criterion.
Further details on the PC5 radio measurements criteria, e.g., in case of no
transmission on the sidelink unicast link can be discussed in WI phase. How to
perform RSRP measurement based on RSRP of discovery message and/or SL-RSRP if
Remote UE has PC5-RRC connection with Relay UE can be decided in WI phase.
For relay (re-)selection, Remote UE compares the PC5 radio measurements of a
Relay UE with the threshold which is configured by gNB or preconfigured.
Higher layer criteria also need to be considered by Remote UE for relay
(re-)selection, but details can be left to SA2 to decide. Relay (re-)selection
can be triggered by upper layers of Remote UE.
Relay reselection should be triggered if the NR Sidelink signal strength of
current Sidelink relay is below a (pre)configured threshold. Also, relay
reselection may be triggered if RLF of PC5 link with current Relay UE is
detected by Remote UE.
The above-described baseline for relay (re)selection apply to both L2 and L3
relay solutions. Additional AS layer criteria can be considered in WI phase
for both L2 and L3 UE-to-UE Relay solutions.
For relay (re-)selection, when Remote UE has multiple suitable Relay UE
candidates which meet all AS-layer & higher layer criteria and Remote UE need
to select one Relay UE by itself, it is up to UE implementation to choose one
Relay UE.
As captured in TR 23.752, solution#8 and solution#50 in TR 23.752 are taken as
baseline solution for L2 and L3 UE-to-UE Relay reselection, and solution#8 and
solution#11 in TR 23.752 are taken as baseline solution for L3 UE-to-UE Relay
selection.
## 5.4 Relay/Remote UE authorization
RAN2 concludes that authorization of both Relay UE and Remote UE has no RAN2
impact.
## 5.5 Layer-2 Relay
### 5.5.1 Architecture and Protocol Stack
For L2 UE-to-UE Relay architecture, the protocol stacks are similar to L2 UE-
to-Network Relay other than the fact that the termination points are two
Remote UEs. The protocol stacks for the user plane and control plane of L2 UE-
to-UE Relay architecture are described in Figure 5.5.1-1 and Figure 5.5.1-2.
An adaptation layer is supported over the second PC5 link (i.e. the PC5 link
between Relay UE and Destination UE) for L2 UE-to-UE Relay. For L2 UE-to-UE
Relay, the adaptation layer is put over RLC sublayer for both CP and UP over
the second PC5 link. The sidelink SDAP/PDCP and RRC are terminated between two
Remote UEs, while RLC, MAC and PHY are terminated in each PC5 link.
Figure 5.5.1-1: User plane protocol stack for L2 UE-to-UE Relay
Figure 5.5.1-2: Control plane protocol stack for L2 UE-to-UE Relay
For the first hop of L2 UE-to-UE Relay:
\- The N:1 mapping is supported by first hop PC5 adaptation layer between
Remote UE SL Radio Bearers and first hop PC5 RLC channels for relaying.
\- The adaptation layer over first PC5 hop between Source Remote UE and Relay
UE supports to identify traffic destined to different Destination Remote UEs.
For the second hop of L2 UE-to-UE Relay:
\- The second hop PC5 adaptation layer can be used to support bearer mapping
between the ingress RLC channels over first PC5 hop and egress RLC channels
over second PC5 hop at Relay UE.
\- PC5 Adaptation layer supports the N:1 bearer mapping between multiple
ingress PC5 RLC channels over first PC5 hop and one egress PC5 RLC channel
over second PC5 hop and supports the Remote UE identification function.
For L2 UE-to-UE Relay:
\- The identity information of Remote UE end-to-end Radio Bearer is included
in the adaptation layer in first and second PC5 hop.
\- In addition, the identity information of Source Remote UE and/or the
identity information of Destination Remote UE are candidate information to be
included in the adaptation layer, which are to be decided in WI phase.
### 5.5.2 QoS
QoS handling for L2 UE-to-UE Relay is subject to upper layer, e.g. solution#31
in TR 23.752 studied by SA2.
### 5.5.3 Security
As described in clause 6.9.1.2 (Solution#9) of TR 23.752, in case of L2 UE-to-
UE Relay, the security is established at PDCP layer in an end to end manner
between UE1 and UE2. Security aspects require confirmation from SA3.
### 5.5.4 Control Plane Procedure
RAN2 consider the SA2 solution in TR 23.752[6] as baseline. Further RAN2
impacts can be discussed in WI phase, if any.
## 5.6 Layer-3 Relay
### 5.6.1 Architecture and Protocol Stack
RAN2 leaves the design of protocol stacks for L3 UE-to-UE Relay to SA2 (TR
23.752 [6]).
### 5.6.2 QoS
No RAN2 impact of the solution captured in SA2 TR 23.752 [6] (solution#31) is
identified and the design is in the scope of SA2.
### 5.6.3 Security
Security protection of L3 UE-to-UE Relay is in the scope of SA2 and SA3. No
RAN2 impact is identified.
Whether the SA2 captured solutions can satisfy the security requirement
depends on SA3.
### 5.6.4 Control Plane Procedure
No RAN2 impact of the solutions captured in SA2 TR 23.752 [6] (e.g.
solution#10 and solution#32) is identified and the design is in the scope of
SA2.
# 6 Conclusion
## 6.1 Evaluation and Conclusion of UE-to-Network Relay
### 6.1.1 Layer-2 Relay
#### 6.1.1.0 Conclusions of Layer-2 Relay
RAN2 has studied L2 UE-to-Network Relay and has concluded that L2 UE-to-
Network Relay meets all of the objectives of the NR Sidelink Relay SID [8].
Specifically, RAN2 has reached the following conclusions:
#### 6.1.1.1 Relay discovery and (re)selection
Discovery was studied for L2 UE-to-Network Relay and the baseline solution for
L2 relay is the same as for L3 relay (as captured in 6.1.2.1). In addition,
for L2 UE-to-Network Relay, the Relay UE should always be connected to a SL
capable gNB. Further details of discovery configuration for the Remote UE can
be discussed in the normative phase.
Relay (Re)selection was studied for L2 UE-to-Network Relay and the baseline
solution for L2 relay is the same as for L3 relay (as captured in 6.1.2.1). In
addition, for RRC_CONNECTED Remote UE connected through L2 UE-to-Network
Relay, gNB decision on relay (re)selection is considered for the normative
phase.
#### 6.1.1.2 Relay UE and Remote UE authorization
Both Relay UE and Remote UE separately follow Rel-16 V2X design (TS 23.287),
and no RAN2 impact is expected.
#### 6.1.1.3 QoS management
The general QoS handling for L2 UE-to-Network Relay was studied. The gNB
implementation can handle the QoS breakdown over Uu and PC5 for end-to-end QoS
enforcement, and this breakdown can be flexibly tailored to the AS conditions
on sidelink and Uu. Details of handling in case PC5 RLC channels with
different E2E QoS are mapped to the same Uu RLC channel can be discussed in
the normative phase. The end-to-end QoS enforcement can be supported. In case
of OOC, Remote UE operates using the configuration provided in SIB or
dedicated RRC signaling with overall better QoS performance than using pre-
configuration. QoS can be enforced for each bearer as the gNB can decide
whether an E2E bearer is admitted or not depending on the current congestion.
#### 6.1.1.4 Service continuity
L2 UE-to-Network Relay uses RAN2 aspects of Rel-15 NR handover procedure as a
baseline. The AS layer service continuity (i.e. lossless and in-sequence
delivery of PDCP PDU with similar performance like legacy HO) can be
guaranteed during path switch in L2 UE-to-Network Relay by involving also
Relay UEs in the path switch procedure.
#### 6.1.1.5 Security
In case of L2 UE-to-Network Relay, at AS layer, the security (confidentiality
and integrity protection) is enforced end to end by legacy PDCP layer between
the endpoints at the Remote UE and the gNB.
#### 6.1.1.6 Protocol stack design
The protocol stack and Uu adaptation layer function were studied for L2 UE-to-
Network Relay. Whether the adaptation layer is also supported at the PC5
interface between Remote UE and Relay UE can be discussed in the normative
phase. In L2 UE-to-Network Relay architecture, the Remote UE is visible to the
gNB, and the Remote UE has its own PDU sessions. It supports the gNB
configured/controlled bearer mapping at the Relay UE between multiple E2E
bearers of a Remote UE and/or different Remote UEs to one Uu RLC channel.
#### 6.1.1.7 CP procedures
Both connection establishment procedure and path switching procedures were
captured for L2 UE-to-Network Relay. The establishment of Uu SRB1/SRB2 and DRB
of the Remote UE is subject to legacy Uu configuration procedures. It supports
the Remote UE\'s RRC connection management, which can provide dedicated RRC
configuration to Remote UE, reduce the interruption/avoid data loss due to RLF
recovery, and speed up RRC connection and data resume, etc. Further details of
the steps for path switch procedure (e.g. measurements, message content) and
potential differences on the Uu interface for inter-gNB cases may be discussed
in the normative phase.
The Option 2 as studied in TR36.746 for FeD2D paging is selected as the
baseline paging relaying solution for L2 UE-to-Network Relay. By supporting
paging, for Remote UE in RRC_IDLE/RRC_INACTIVE, the DL data reachability can
be supported during Remote UE\'s mobility.
The system information (i.e. SI) request from Remote UE and forwarding
mechanism from Relay UE to Remote UE was studied for L2 UE-to-Network Relay.
Specifically, the Relay UE can forward system information to the Remote UE via
broadcast, groupcast or unicast. On-demand SI request is supported for all RRC
states of the Remote UE. The detailed mechanism for such SI request and
forwarding and the exact system information that can be relayed to Remote UEs
can be discussed at normative phase. It supports the SI delivery in case
Remote UE is OOC, which supports Remote UE using SIB provided configuration.
For L2 UE-to- Network relay, the Relay UE may provide UAC parameters to Remote
UE for performing Remote UE access control and RAN overload control. The
access control check is performed at Remote UE using the parameters of the
cell it intends to access. Remote UE access control can take SL congestion
into account as the gNB is aware of the congestion status between Remote UE
and Relay UE, using legacy CBR measurements.
### 6.1.2 Layer-3 Relay
#### 6.1.2.0 Conclusions of Layer-3 Relay
RAN2 has studied L3 UE-to-Network Relay and has concluded that L3 UE-to-
Network Relay meets all the objective of the NR Sidelink Relay SID [8].
Specifically, RAN2 has reached the following conclusions:
#### 6.1.2.1 Relay discovery and (re)selection
RAN2 concluded that both the model A and model B are to be supported, and
similar AS criteria of LTE relay will be reused as baseline. The details are
left to WI.
#### 6.1.2.2 Relay and Remote UE authorization
RAN2 confirmed the solution is up to SA2 and SA3 with no RAN2 impact foreseen.
#### 6.1.2.3 QoS management
This is subject to upper layer solutions defined by SA2 in TR 23.752 [6],
clause 8.3. RAN2 can consider in WI phase the SA2 conclusions on QoS
solutions, including whether it is sufficient to enforce E2E QoS via legacy
PC5-RRC reconfiguration of SLRB and resource allocation.
#### 6.1.2.4 Service continuity
No AS layer solution is studied in RAN2 to guarantee service continuity, and
this is left to the upper layer solutions defined by SA2 in TR 23.752 [6].
#### 6.1.2.5 Security
Solution#23 of TR 23.752 [6] with N3IWF is assumed to be feasible to meet end-
to-end security requirements from RAN2 perspective.
#### 6.1.2.6 Protocol stack design
RAN2 concluded the CP and UP protocol stacks of L3 UE-to-Network Relay are up
to SA2 and these are illustrated in TR 23.752 [6].
#### 6.1.2.7 CP procedures
For CP procedures, PC5-RRC aspects of Rel-16 NR V2X PC5 unicast link
establishment procedures can be reused to setup a secure PC5 unicast link.
Further AS impacts (if any) can be discussed in WI phase. Whether new PC5-S
signalling is also introduced depends on SA2. For path switch procedure, there
is no AS solution discussed and concluded in RAN2 to perform path switch
procedure from indirect link to direct link in case there is data transmission
between Remote UE and gNB via a Relay UE.
## 6.2 Evaluation and Conclusion of UE-to-UE Relay
### 6.2.1 Layer-2 Relay
#### 6.2.1.0 Conclusions of Layer-2 Relay
RAN2 has studied L2 UE-to-UE Relay and has concluded that L2 UE-to-UE Relay
meets all of the objectives of the NR Sidelink Relay SID [8]. Specifically,
RAN2 has reached the following conclusions:
#### 6.2.1.1 Relay discovery and (re)selection
Discovery was studied for L2 UE-to-UE Relay and the baseline solution for L2
relay is the same as that of L3 relay.
Relay (Re)selection was studied for L2 UE-to-UE Relay and the baseline
solution for L2 relay is the same as that of L3 relay.
#### 6.2.1.2 Relay and Remote UE authorization
Both Relay UE and Remote UE separately follow Rel-16 V2X design (TS 23.287),
and no RAN2 impact is expected.
#### 6.2.1.3 QoS management
The design of QoS support for L2 UE-to-UE Relay are in the scope of SA2. No
RAN2 impact of the solution captured in SA2 is identified thus far.
#### 6.2.1.4 Security
In case of L2 UE-to-UE Relay, the security is established at PDCP layer in an
end to end manner between source Remote UE and destination Remote UE. The end-
to-end security can be supported.
#### 6.2.1.5 Protocol stack design
The protocol stack and PC5 adaptation layer function (both first hop PC5 and
second hop PC5) were studied for L2 UE-to-UE Relay. The usage of PC5
adaptation layer header(s) enables the AS layer routing/forwarding via Relay
UE for end-to-end UE-to-UE traffic.
#### 6.2.1.6 CP procedures
The connection establishment procedure was studied for L2 UE-to-UE Relay. RAN2
consider the SA2 solution in TR 23.752 as baseline. Further RAN2 impacts can
be discussed in WI phase, if any.
### 6.2.2 Layer-3 Relay
#### 6.2.2.0 Conclusions of Layer-3 Relay
RAN2 has studied L3 UE-to-UE Relay and has concluded that L3 UE-to-UE Relay
meets all the objective of the NR Sidelink Relay SID [8]. Specifically, RAN2
has reached the following conclusions:
#### 6.2.2.1 Relay discovery and (re)selection
RAN2 concluded that both the model A and model B are to be supported, and
similar AS criteria of LTE relay will be reused as baseline. The details are
left to WI.
#### 6.2.2.2 Relay UE and Remote UE authorization
RAN2 confirmed the solution is up to SA2 and SA3 with no RAN2 impact foreseen.
#### 6.2.2.3 QoS management
This is subject to upper layer solutions defined by SA2 in TR 23.752 [6],
clause 8.4.
#### 6.2.2.4 Security
RAN2 concluded the solution is up to SA2 and SA3.
#### 6.2.2.5 Protocol stack design
RAN2 concluded the CP and UP protocol stacks of L3 UE-to-UE Relay are up to
SA2 and these are illustrated in TR 23.752 [6].
#### 6.2.2.6 CP procedures
RAN2 concluded the design is left to SA2.
## 6.3 Feasibility and Recommendation
RAN2 has studied direct discovery procedure, UE-to-Network Relay, and UE-to-UE
Relay solutions.
Mechanisms for L2 relay and L3 relay have been studied and identified by RAN2,
striving for minimum specification impact. The standards impact of L2 relay is
principally in RAN and the standards impact of L3 relay is principally in SA.
In this study, both L2 based Relay architecture and L3 based Relay
architecture have been found feasible.
RAN2 recommends both L2 and L3 UE-to-Network and UE-to-UE Relay can proceed to
normative work (The final decision depends on both SA and RAN TSGs#91e
outcome).
#