# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for Work Item on New Radio (NR)
Access Technology, covering introduction of lower 6GHz NR unlicensed operation
for Europe (NR_6GHz_unlic_EU) and in the 5925-7125 MHz range for other regions
(NR_6GHz_unlic_full).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 37.890: Feasibility Study on 6 GHz for LTE and NR in Licensed and
Unlicensed Operations
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
BS Base Station
BW Bandwidth
EIRP Effective Isotropic Radiated Power
FR Frequency Range
GSCN Global Synchronization Channel Number
ICS In-Channel Selectivity
ITU‑R Radiocommunication Sector of the International Telecommunication Union
NR New Radio
NR-ARFCN NR Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
OTA Over The Air
RF Radio Frequency
RX Receiver
SCS Sub-Carrier Spacing
TDD Time division Duplex
# 4 Background
Administrations in Europe have had unlicensed operation in the range 5925 to
6425 MHz for consultation. The result of this consultation is that at the
November 2020 meeting the ECC with ECC Decision (20)01 "on the harmonised use
of the frequency bands 5945 to 6425 MHz for the implementation of Wireless
Access Systems including Radio Local Area Networks (WAS/RLANs)" approved
unlicensed operation in the range 5945 to 6425 MHz. This initiated this TR
which has later been expanded to also include NR unlicensed operation in the 6
GHz band for other regions.
NR-Unlicensed is standardized in Rel-16 with the definition of band n96
covering the spectrum range 5925-7125 MHz which is currently applicable in the
USA only subject to FCC Report and Order FCC 20-51. For Rel-17 3GPP WG4 is
tasked to also enable unlicensed operation in the range 5945 to 6425 MHz for
European deployments and in the 5925-7125 MHz range for other regions.
Regulatory information is maintained in [2].
# 5 NR Frequency band definition
## 5.1 Band definition
### 5.1.1 Band definition for lower 6GHz NR unlicensed operation
A NR band for unlicensed operation in the range 5925-6425 MHz is defined as:
Table 5.1.1-1: NR _operating bands_ in FR1
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | NR operating | Uplink (UL) | Downlink (DL) | Duplex mode | | band | operating band\ | operating band\ | | | | BS receive / UE | BS transmit / | | | | transmit | UE receive | | | | | | | | | FUL,low -- | FDL,low -- | | | | FUL,high | FDL,high | | +=================+=================+=================+=============+ | n102 | 5925 MHz -- | 5925 MHz -- | TDD^3^ | | | 6425 MHz | 6425 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | NOTE 3: This | | | | | band is | | | | | restricted to | | | | | operation with | | | | | shared spectrum | | | | | channel access | | | | | as defined in | | | | | TS 37.213. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+
Table 5.1.1-2: _Channel bandwidths_ and SCS per _operating band_ in FR1
NR Band SCS (kHz) _Channel bandwidth_ (MHz)
* * *
                        5                           10   15   20   25   30   35   40   45   50   60   70   80   90   100
            15                                                20                  40
n102 30 20 40 60 80  
60 20 40 60 80
### 5.1.2 Band definition for the full 6GHz NR unlicensed operation
A NR band covering the full 6 GHz unlicensed range is defined as:
Table 5.1.2-1: NR _operating bands_ in FR1
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | NR operating | Uplink (UL) | Downlink (DL) | Duplex mode | | band | operating band\ | operating band\ | | | | BS receive / UE | BS transmit / | | | | transmit | UE receive | | | | | | | | | FUL,low -- | FDL,low -- | | | | FUL,high | FDL,high | | +=================+=================+=================+=============+ | n96 | 5925 MHz -- | 5925 MHz -- | TDD^3^ | | | 7125 MHz | 7125 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | NOTE 3: This | | | | | band is | | | | | restricted to | | | | | operation with | | | | | shared spectrum | | | | | channel access | | | | | as defined in | | | | | TS 37.213. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+
Table 5.1.2-2: _Channel bandwidths_ and SCS per _operating band_ in FR1
NR Band SCS (kHz) _Channel bandwidth_ (MHz)
* * *
                        5                           10   15   20   25   30   35   40   45   50   60   70   80   90   100
            15                                                20                  40
n96 30 20 40 60 80  
60 20 40 60 80
## 5.2 NR-ARFCN and GSCN
### 5.2.2 NR-ARFCN and GSCN for lower 6GHz NR unlicensed operation in Europe
Operation in the 6GHz EU band is to be aligned with other technologies
operation in the same shared spectrum restricted to the following NR-ARFCN and
GSCN points.
Applicable GSCN in Europe:
> \- GSCN = {9548, 9562, 9576, 9590, 9603, 9617,9631, 9645, 9659, 9673, 9687,
> 9701, 9714, 9728, 9742, 9756, 9770, 9784, 9798, 9812, 9826, 9840, 9853,
> 9867}
Applicable NR-ARFCN in Europe:
> \- For 20 MHz channel bandwidth, NREF = {797000, 798332, 799668, 801000,
> 802332, 803668, 805000, 806332, 807668, 809000, 810332, 811668, 813000,
> 814332, 815668, 817000, 818332, 819668, 821000, 822332, 823668, 825000,
> 826332, 827668}
>
> \- For 40 MHz channel bandwidth, NREF = {797668, 800332, 803000, 805668,
> 808332, 811000, 813668, 816332, 819000, 821668, 824332, 827000}
>
> \- For 60 MHz channel bandwidth, NREF = {798332, 799668, 803668, 805000,
> 809000, 810332, 814332, 815668, 819668, 821000, 825000, 826332}
>
> \- For 80 MHz channel bandwidth, NREF = {799000, 804332, 809668, 815000,
> 820332, 825668, 831000}
# 6 RF requirements
## 6.1 UE specific
### 6.1.1 Transmitter characteristics
This section details specific transmitter characteristics for a UE operating
in the 6 GHz NR band.
Table 6.1.1-1: Summary of NS values.
Country Mode
* * *
                 SP       LPI                    VLP
**Region 1**  
EU/CEPT N/A NS_58 TBD **Region 2**  
US NS_54 NS_53 N/A Canada NS_54 NS_59 TBD Brazil N/A NS_53 TBD Peru N/A
[NS_53]{.underline} N/A Chile N/A [NS_53]{.underline} N/A Costa Rica N/A NS_01
TBD Colombia N/A NS_53 N/A **Region 3**  
South Korea N/A NS_60 [NS_61]
#### 6.1.1.1 A-MPR for a NS(s) for lower 6GHz NR unlicensed operation in
Europe.
Additional emission requirements can be signalled by the network. Each
additional emission requirement is associated with a unique network signalling
(NS) value indicated in RRC signalling by an NR frequency band number of the
applicable operating band as detailed in TS 38.101-1 _._
To meet the additional requirements applicable in EU as given in EN 303 687,
additional maximum power reduction (A-MPR) is allowed for the maximum output
power as specified in Table 6.1.1.1-1 for low power indoor (LPI).
Table 6.1.1.1-1: A-MPR for PC5 LPI
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Pre-coding | Modulation | RB Allocation | | +================+==============+================+================+ | | | Full**^2^** | Partial**^3^** | | | | (dB) | (dB) | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | DFT-s-ODFM | Pi/2 BPSK^4^ | ≤ 1.5 | ≤ 2.5 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | | QPSK | ≤ 2.0 | ≤ 3.5 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 16 QAM | ≤ 2.5 | ≤ 4.0 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 64 QAM | ≤ 3.5 | ≤ 4.5 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 256 QAM | ≤ 5.0 | ≤ 5.5 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | CP-OFDM | QPSK | ≤ 3.5 | ≤ 4.5 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 16 QAM | ≤ 4.0 | ≤ 4.5 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 64 QAM | ≤ 5.5 | ≤ 5.5 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 256 QAM | ≤ 7.0 | ≤ 7.0 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | A-MPR shall | | | | | apply to all | | | | | SCS in all | | | | | active 20 MHz | | | | | sub-bands | | | | | contiguously | | | | | allocated in | | | | | the channel. | | | | | The MPR | | | | | applies to | | | | | interlaced | | | | | allocations | | | | | with uplink | | | | | resource | | | | | allocation | | | | | type 2 as | | | | | specified in | | | | | TS 38.214 | | | | | [10]. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Full | | | | | RB allocation | | | | | A-MPR applies | | | | | when all RB's | | | | | in a 20 MHz | | | | | channel or all | | | | | RB's in all | | | | | sub-bands for | | | | | wideband | | | | | operation are | | | | | fully | | | | | allocated and | | | | | sub-bands are | | | | | transmitted | | | | | according to | | | | | configuration | | | | | A in Table | | | | | 6.2F.2-2. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | Partial RB | | | | | allocation | | | | | A-MPR applies | | | | | when one or | | | | | more RB's in | | | | | one or more | | | | | sub-bands are | | | | | not allocated | | | | | or when the | | | | | transmitted | | | | | sub-bands for | | | | | wideband | | | | | operation are | | | | | transmitted | | | | | according to | | | | | configuration | | | | | B in Table | | | | | 6.2F.2-2. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | Applicable to | | | | | Pi/2-BPSK | | | | | modulation | | | | | when IE | | | | | pow | | | | | erBoostPi2BPSK | | | | | is set to 0. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: The | | | | | A-MPR applies | | | | | instead of MPR | | | | | for 20 MHz | | | | | channel | | | | | centered at | | | | | the nearest | | | | | NR-ARFCN | | | | | corresponding | | | | | to 5955 MHz, | | | | | 40 MHz channel | | | | | at the nearest | | | | | NR-ARFCN | | | | | corresponding | | | | | to 5965 MHz, | | | | | 60 MHz channel | | | | | at the nearest | | | | | NR-ARFCN | | | | | corresponding | | | | | to 5975 MHz, | | | | | and 80 MHz | | | | | channel at the | | | | | nearest | | | | | NR-ARFCN | | | | | corresponding | | | | | to 5985 MHz. | | | | | For all other | | | | | channels, | | | | | A-MPR is zero | | | | | and MPR as | | | | | specified in | | | | | Table 6.2F.2-1 | | | | | applies. | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
For very low power (VLP) operation the out-of-band emissions and in-band power
spectral density requirements are much more restrictive than for LPI. For PC5
VLP, a comprehensive set of A-MPR simulation results is provided below for 20,
40, 60, and 80 MHz channels. In Figure 6.1.1.1-1 all channels in the band are
represented while in Figure 6.1.1.1-2 lower edge channels are not illustrated
since those are most impacted by the additional spurious emission requirement
of -45 dBm/MHz. The lower edge channels found to be impacted were the ones
centered at 5955 MHz for 20 MHz channels, 5965 MHz for 40 MHz channels, 5975
MHz and 5995 MHz for 60 MHz channels, and 5985 MHz for 80 MHz channels.
Table 6.1.1.1-2. Simulation scenarios for all CBW/SCS
Scenario Modulation DFT/CP Allocation
* * *
1 QPSK CP Interlace_0 2 QPSK DFT-S Interlace_0 3 QPSK CP Full 4 QPSK DFT-S
Full 5 16QAM CP Interlace_0 6 16QAM DFT-S Interlace_0 7 16QAM CP Full 8 16QAM
DFT-S Full 9 64QAM CP Interlace_0 10 64QAM DFT-S Interlace_0 11 64QAM CP Full
12 64QAM DFT-S Full 13 256QAM CP Interlace_0 14 256QAM DFT-S Interlace_0 15
256QAM CP Full 16 256QAM DFT-S Full
{width="6.696506999125109in" height="3.269795494313211in"}
Figure 6.1.1.1-1. Power backoff for 20, 40, 60, and 80 MHz channels
{width="6.695027340332459in" height="3.269073709536308in"}
Figure 6.1.1.1-2. Power backoff with lower edge channels excluded
Based on these simulation results, the A-MPR table for VLP is provided below
in Table 6.1.1.1-3.
Table 6.1.1.1-3. PC5 A-MPR table for VLP
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Pr | Mo | RB | RB | | | | e-coding | dulation | Al | Al | | | | | | location | location | | | | | | (Note 2) | (Note 3) | | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | | | Full | Partial | Full | Partial | | | | (dB) | (dB) | (dB) | (dB) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | DF | QPSK | ≤ 12 | ≤ 14 | ≤ 8 | ≤ 10 | | T-s-ODFM | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 16 QAM | ≤ 12 | ≤ 15 | ≤ 9 | ≤ 10 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 64 QAM | ≤ 12 | ≤ 15 | ≤ 11 | ≤ 11 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 256 QAM | ≤ 13 | ≤ 15 | ≤ 13 | ≤ 14 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | CP-OFDM | QPSK | ≤ 13 | ≤ 15 | ≤ 10 | ≤ 10 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 16 QAM | ≤ 13 | ≤ 15 | ≤ 11 | ≤ 10 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 64 QAM | ≤ 13 | ≤ 15 | ≤ 13 | ≤ 12 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 256 QAM | ≤ 15 | ≤ 15 | ≤ 15 | ≤ 15 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Full | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | A-MPR | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | when all | | | | | | | RB's in | | | | | | | a 20 MHz | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | or all | | | | | | | RB's in | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ub-bands | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | wideband | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | peration | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | fully | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | llocated | | | | | | | and all | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ub-bands | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | tran | | | | | | | smitted. | | | | | | | Partial | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | A-MPR | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | when one | | | | | | | or more | | | | | | | RB's in | | | | | | | one or | | | | | | | more | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ub-bands | | | | | | | are not | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | llocated | | | | | | | or when | | | | | | | not all | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | nsmitted | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ub-bands | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | wideband | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | peration | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | tran | | | | | | | smitted. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for 20 | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | channels | | | | | | | centered | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | nearest | | | | | | | NR-ARFCN | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | sponding | | | | | | | to 5955 | | | | | | | MHz, 40 | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | channels | | | | | | | centered | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | nearest | | | | | | | NR-ARFCN | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | sponding | | | | | | | to 5965 | | | | | | | MHz, 60 | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | channels | | | | | | | centered | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | nearest | | | | | | | NR-ARFCN | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | sponding | | | | | | | to 5975 | | | | | | | and 5995 | | | | | | | MHz and | | | | | | | 80 MHz | | | | | | | channels | | | | | | | centered | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | nearest | | | | | | | NR-ARFCN | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | sponding | | | | | | | to 5985 | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for all | | | | | | | valid | | | | | | | channels | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | those | | | | | | | en | | | | | | | umerated | | | | | | | under | | | | | | | NOTE 2. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
#### 6.1.1.2 A-MPR for a NS(s) for the full 6GHz NR unlicensed operation
##### 6.1.1.2.1 Canada
Table 6.1.1.2.1-1: Signal setup.
+-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | ID | Waveform | BW | RB Setup | SCS | +=======================+====+============+====+=========================+=====+ | Full Allocation | 1 | DFT-s-OFDM | 20 | 100RB3 | 15 | | | | | | | | | Single CC | | | | | | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 2 | DFT-s-OFDM | 20 | 100RB0 | 15 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 3 | DFT-s-OFDM | 20 | 50RB0 | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 4 | DFT-s-OFDM | 40 | 216RB0 | 15 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 5 | DFT-s-OFDM | 60 | 162RB0 | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 6 | DFT-s-OFDM | 80 | 216RB0 | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 7 | CP-OFDM | 20 | 106RB0 | 15 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 8 | CP-OFDM | 20 | 51RB0 | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 9 | CP-OFDM | 40 | 216RB0 | 15 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 10 | CP-OFDM | 60 | 162RB0 | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 11 | CP-OFDM | 80 | 217RB0 | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | Interlaced Allocation | 12 | DFT-s-OFDM | 20 | 1RB0 every 10RBs (10x) | 15 | | | | | | | | | Single CC | | | | | | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 13 | DFT-s-OFDM | 40 | 1RB0 every 10RBs (20x) | 15 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 14 | DFT-s-OFDM | 60 | 1RB0 every 10RBs (30x) | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM | 80 | 1RB0 every 5RBs (40x) | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 16 | CP-OFDM | 20 | 1 RB0 every 10RBs (10x) | 15 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 17 | CP-OFDM | 40 | 1RB0 every 10RBs (22x) | 15 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 18 | CP-OFDM | 60 | 1RB0 every 10RBs (33x) | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 19 | CP-OFDM | 80 | 1RB0 every 5RBs (44x) | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="1.9736111111111112in"}
Figure 6.1.1.2.1-1: A-MPR simulation results for PC5 LPI in Canada.
Table 6.1.1.2.1-2: A-MPR for PC5 LPI in Canada
Pre-coding Modulation Channel bandwidth (Sub-band allocation) / RB Allocation
* * *
                            20 MHz                                                    
                            Full (dB)                                                 Partial (dB)
DFT-s-ODFM PI/2 BPSK ≤ 3.0 ≤ 5.5 QPSK ≤ 3.0 ≤ 5.5 16 QAM ≤ 3.0 ≤ 5.5 64 QAM ≤
3.5 ≤ 5.5 256 QAM ≤ 5.0 ≤ 5.5 CP-OFDM QPSK ≤ 3.5 ≤ 5.5 16 QAM ≤ 4.0 ≤ 5.5 64
QAM ≤ 5.5 ≤ 5.5 256 QAM ≤ 7.0 ≤ 7.0
##### 6.1.1.2.2 South Korea
Table 6.1.1.2.2-1: Signal setup.
+-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | ID | Waveform | BW | RB Setup | SCS | +=======================+====+============+====+=========================+=====+ | Full Allocation | 1 | DFT-s-OFDM | 20 | 100RB3 | 15 | | | | | | | | | Single CC | | | | | | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 2 | DFT-s-OFDM | 20 | 100RB0 | 15 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 3 | DFT-s-OFDM | 20 | 50RB0 | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 4 | DFT-s-OFDM | 40 | 216RB0 | 15 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 5 | DFT-s-OFDM | 60 | 162RB0 | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 6 | DFT-s-OFDM | 80 | 216RB0 | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 7 | CP-OFDM | 20 | 106RB0 | 15 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 8 | CP-OFDM | 20 | 51RB0 | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 9 | CP-OFDM | 40 | 216RB0 | 15 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 10 | CP-OFDM | 60 | 162RB0 | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 11 | CP-OFDM | 80 | 217RB0 | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | Interlaced Allocation | 12 | DFT-s-OFDM | 20 | 1RB0 every 10RBs (10x) | 15 | | | | | | | | | Single CC | | | | | | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 13 | DFT-s-OFDM | 40 | 1RB0 every 10RBs (20x) | 15 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 14 | DFT-s-OFDM | 60 | 1RB0 every 10RBs (30x) | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM | 80 | 1RB0 every 5RBs (40x) | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 16 | CP-OFDM | 20 | 1 RB0 every 10RBs (10x) | 15 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 17 | CP-OFDM | 40 | 1RB0 every 10RBs (22x) | 15 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 18 | CP-OFDM | 60 | 1RB0 every 10RBs (33x) | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 19 | CP-OFDM | 80 | 1RB0 every 5RBs (44x) | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="1.9569444444444444in"}
Figure 6.1.1.2.2-1: A-MPR simulation results for PC5 LPI in South Korea.
Table 6.1.1.2.2-2: A-MPR for PC5 LPI in South Korea
Pre-coding Modulation Channel bandwidth (Sub-band allocation) / RB Allocation
* * *
                            20 MHz                                                    40 MHz         60 MHz      80 MHz                                                
                            Full (dB)                                                 Partial (dB)   Full (dB)   Partial (dB)   Full (dB)   Partial (dB)   Full (dB)   Partial (dB)
DFT-s-ODFM QPSK ≤ 6.0 ≤ 8.5 ≤ 4.0 ≤ 5.5 ≤ 3.5 ≤ 4.5 ≤ 3.0 ≤ 4.5 16 QAM ≤ 6.0 ≤
8.5 ≤ 4.0 ≤ 5.5 ≤ 4.0 ≤ 5.0 ≤ 3.5 ≤ 5.0 64 QAM ≤ 6.0 ≤ 8.5 ≤ 4.0 ≤ 5.5 ≤ 4.0 ≤
5.0 ≤ 3.5 ≤ 5.0 256 QAM ≤ 6.0 ≤ 8.5 ≤ 5.0 ≤ 5.5 ≤ 5.0 ≤ 5.5 ≤ 5.0 ≤ 5.5 CP-
OFDM QPSK ≤ 6.0 ≤ 8.5 ≤ 5.5 ≤ 5.5 ≤ 5.0 ≤ 5.5 ≤ 4.5 ≤ 5.5 16 QAM ≤ 6.0 ≤ 8.5 ≤
5.5 ≤ 5.5 ≤ 5.0 ≤ 5.5 ≤ 4.5 ≤ 5.5 64 QAM ≤ 6.0 ≤ 8.5 ≤ 5.5 ≤ 5.5 ≤ 5.5 ≤ 5.5 ≤
5.5 ≤ 5.5 256 QAM ≤ 6.0 ≤ 8.5 ≤ 7.0 ≤ 7.0 ≤ 7.0 ≤ 7.0 ≤ 7.0 ≤ 7.0
Table 6.1.1.2.2-3 contains A-MPR values for the 5945-6425MHz frequency range
based on South Korea regulatory requirements.
**Table 6.1.1.2.2-3: A-MPR for PC5 VLP in South Korea (5945-6425MHz).**
* * *
**Pre-coding** Modulation Channel bandwidth (Sub-band allocation) / RB
Allocation
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             20 MHz                                                    40 MHz         60 MHz      80 MHz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Full (dB)                                                 Partial (dB)   Full (dB)   Partial (dB)   Full (dB)   Partial (dB)   Full (dB)   Partial (dB)
DFT-s-ODFM QPSK ≤ 7.5 ≤ 10.0 ≤ 6.5 ≤ 6.5 ≤ 6.0 ≤ 6.0 ≤ 6.0 ≤ 6.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                16 QAM       ≤ 7.5                                                     ≤ 10.5         ≤ 6.5       ≤ 6.5          ≤ 6.0       ≤ 6.0          ≤ 6.0       ≤ 6.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                64 QAM       ≤ 7.5                                                     ≤ 10.5         ≤ 6.5       ≤ 6.5          ≤ 6.0       ≤ 6.0          ≤ 6.0       ≤ 6.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                256 QAM      ≤ 7.5                                                     ≤ 10.5         ≤ 6.5       ≤ 6.5          ≤ 6.0       ≤ 6.0          ≤ 6.0       ≤ 6.0
CP-OFDM QPSK ≤ 7.5 ≤ 10.0 ≤ 6.5 ≤ 6.5 ≤ 6.0 ≤ 6.0 ≤ 6.0 ≤ 6.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                16 QAM       ≤ 7.5                                                     ≤ 10.5         ≤ 6.5       ≤ 6.5          ≤ 6.0       ≤ 6.0          ≤ 6.0       ≤ 6.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                64 QAM       ≤ 7.5                                                     ≤ 10.5         ≤ 6.5       ≤ 6.5          ≤ 6.0       ≤ 6.0          ≤ 6.0       ≤ 6.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                256 QAM      ≤ 7.5                                                     ≤ 10.5         ≤ 7.0       ≤ 7.0          ≤ 7.0       ≤ 7.0          ≤ 7.0       ≤ 7.0
NOTE 1: Full allocation A-MPR applies when all RB's in a 20 MHz channel or all
RB's in all sub-bands for wideband\  
operation are fully allocated and all sub-bands are transmitted. Partial
allocation A-MPR applies when one or more RB's in one or more sub-bands are
not allocated but when all sub-bands within the channel are transmitted. When
not all sub-bands within the channel are transmitted, the A-MPR associated
with the channel bandwidth according to the bandwidth of the contiguously
transmitted sub-bands and according to the allocation type applies.
* * *
Table 6.1.1.2.2-4 contains A-MPR values for the 5925-5945MHz frequency range
based on South Korea regulatory requirements.
Table 6.1.1.2.2-4: A-MPR for PC5 VLP in South Korea (5925-5945MHz).
Pre-coding | Modulation | Channel bandwidth (Sub-band allocation) / RB Allocation |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | 20 MHz | 40 MHz | 60 MHz | 80 MHz |  |  |  |   
|  | Full (dB) | Partial (dB) | Full (dB) | Partial (dB) | Full (dB) | Partial (dB) | Full (dB) | Partial (dB)  
DFT-s-ODFM | QPSK | ≤ 8.5 | ≤ 11.5 | ≤ 7.0 | ≤ 9.0 | ≤ 6.5 | ≤ 7.5 | ≤ 6.5 | ≤ 7.0  
| 16 QAM | ≤ 8.5 | ≤ 11.5 | ≤ 7.0 | ≤ 9.0 | ≤ 6.5 | ≤ 7.5 | ≤ 6.5 | ≤ 7.0  
| 64 QAM | ≤ 8.5 | ≤ 11.5 | ≤ 7.0 | ≤ 9.0 | ≤ 6.5 | ≤ 7.5 | ≤ 6.5 | ≤ 7.0  
| 256 QAM | ≤ 8.5 | ≤ 11.5 | ≤ 7.0 | ≤ 9.0 | ≤ 6.5 | ≤ 7.5 | ≤ 6.5 | ≤ 7.0  
CP-OFDM | QPSK | ≤ 11 | ≤ 12.5 | ≤ 9.0 | ≤ 11.0 | ≤ 7.5 | ≤ 9.5 | ≤ 7.0 | ≤ 8.5  
| 16 QAM | ≤ 11 | ≤ 12.5 | ≤ 9.0 | ≤ 11.0 | ≤ 7.5 | ≤ 9.5 | ≤ 7.0 | ≤ 8.5  
| 64 QAM | ≤ 11 | ≤ 12.5 | ≤ 9.0 | ≤ 11.0 | ≤ 7.5 | ≤ 9.5 | ≤ 7.0 | ≤ 8.5  
| 256 QAM | ≤ 11 | ≤ 12.5 | ≤ 9.0 | ≤ 11.0 | ≤ 7.5 | ≤ 9.5 | ≤ 7.0 | ≤ 8.5  
NOTE 1: Full allocation A-MPR applies when all RB’s in a 20 MHz channel or all RB’s in all sub-bands for wideband operation are fully allocated and all sub-bands are transmitted. Partial allocation A-MPR applies when one or more RB’s in one or more sub-bands are not allocated but when all sub-bands within the channel are transmitted. When not all sub-bands within the channel are transmitted, the A-MPR associated with the channel bandwidth according to the bandwidth of the contiguously transmitted sub-bands and according to the allocation type applies. NOTE 2: This table is applicable when the channel raster point is extended so that first 20MHz, i.e. 5925-5945MHz, can be used by NR-U. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
##### 6.1.1.2.3 Peru and Chile
Table 6.1.1.2.3-1: Signal setup.
+-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | ID | Waveform | BW | RB Setup | SCS | +=======================+====+============+====+=========================+=====+ | Full Allocation | 1 | DFT-s-OFDM | 20 | 100RB3 | 15 | | | | | | | | | Single CC | | | | | | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 2 | DFT-s-OFDM | 20 | 100RB0 | 15 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 3 | DFT-s-OFDM | 20 | 50RB0 | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 4 | DFT-s-OFDM | 40 | 216RB0 | 15 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 5 | DFT-s-OFDM | 60 | 162RB0 | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 6 | DFT-s-OFDM | 80 | 216RB0 | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 7 | CP-OFDM | 20 | 106RB0 | 15 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 8 | CP-OFDM | 20 | 51RB0 | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 9 | CP-OFDM | 40 | 216RB0 | 15 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 10 | CP-OFDM | 60 | 162RB0 | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 11 | CP-OFDM | 80 | 217RB0 | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | Interlaced Allocation | 12 | DFT-s-OFDM | 20 | 1RB0 every 10RBs (10x) | 15 | | | | | | | | | Single CC | | | | | | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 13 | DFT-s-OFDM | 40 | 1RB0 every 10RBs (20x) | 15 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 14 | DFT-s-OFDM | 60 | 1RB0 every 10RBs (30x) | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 15 | DFT-s-OFDM | 80 | 1RB0 every 5RBs (40x) | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 16 | CP-OFDM | 20 | 1 RB0 every 10RBs (10x) | 15 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 17 | CP-OFDM | 40 | 1RB0 every 10RBs (22x) | 15 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 18 | CP-OFDM | 60 | 1RB0 every 10RBs (33x) | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+ | | 19 | CP-OFDM | 80 | 1RB0 every 5RBs (44x) | 30 | +-----------------------+----+------------+----+-------------------------+-----+
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="1.7486111111111111in"}
Figure 6.1.1.2.3-1: A-MPR simulation results for PC5 LPI in Peru and Chile.
Table 6.1.1.2.3-2: A-MPR for PC5 LPI in Peru and Chile
Pre-coding Modulation Channel bandwidth (Sub-band allocation) / RB Allocation
* * *
                            20 MHz                                                    40 MHz         60 MHz      80 MHz                                                
                            Full (dB)                                                 Partial (dB)   Full (dB)   Partial (dB)   Full (dB)   Partial (dB)   Full (dB)   Partial (dB)
DFT-s-ODFM QPSK ≤ 9.0 ≤ 12.0 ≤ 6.0 ≤ 8.5 ≤ 4.5 ≤ 6.5 ≤ 3.0 ≤ 5.5 16 QAM ≤ 9.0
≤ 12.0 ≤ 6.0 ≤ 8.5 ≤ 4.5 ≤ 6.5 ≤ 3.0 ≤ 5.5 64 QAM ≤ 9.0 ≤ 12.0 ≤ 6.0 ≤ 8.5 ≤
4.5 ≤ 6.5 ≤ 3.0 ≤ 5.5 256 QAM ≤ 9.0 ≤ 12.0 ≤ 6.0 ≤ 8.5 ≤ 5.0 ≤ 6.5 ≤ 5.0 ≤ 5.5
CP-OFDM QPSK ≤ 9.0 ≤ 12.0 ≤ 6.0 ≤ 8.5 ≤ 4.5 ≤ 6.5 ≤ 4.0 ≤ 5.5 16 QAM ≤ 9.0 ≤
12.0 ≤ 6.0 ≤ 8.5 ≤ 4.5 ≤ 6.5 ≤ 4.0 ≤ 5.5 64 QAM ≤ 9.0 ≤ 12.0 ≤ 6.0 ≤ 8.5 ≤ 5.5
≤ 6.5 ≤ 5.5 ≤ 5.5 256 QAM ≤ 9.0 ≤ 12.0 ≤ 7.0 ≤ 8.5 ≤ 7.0 ≤ 7.0 ≤ 7.0 ≤ 7.0
The A-MPR results for PC5 LPI in Peru and Chile are mostly identical to the
A-MPR results defined by NS_53 (LPI in US). In some cases, A-MPR results are
0.5-1dB relaxed comparing to NS_53. Thus, accounting for the marginal
difference between these A-MPR values and NS_53, the latter can be re-used to
support Peru and Chile.
6.1.2 Receiver characteristics
## 6.2 BS specific
6.2.1 Transmitter characteristics
For operation in full unlicensed band 5925-7125MHz, existing BS transmitter
requirements for n96 can be reused.
6.2.2 Receiver characteristics
For operation in full unlicensed band 5925-7125MHz, existing BS receiver
requirements for n96 can be reused.
# 7 RRM
## 7.1 Frequency bands grouping
#