# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, certain modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
NOTE 1: The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the
context of normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
NOTE 2: The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as
substitutes for \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as
possible, and they are not used in a normative context except in a direct
citation from an external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain
continuity of style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a
referenced document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
NOTE 3: The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
NOTE 4: The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" shall not to be used as
substitutes for \"may\" and \"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
NOTE 5: The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document captures the findings of the study item, \"Study on
scenarios and requirements of in-coverage, partial coverage, and out-of-
coverage positioning use cases\" [2]. The purpose of this TR is to facilitate
future 3GPP work by identifying the requirements and deployment/operation
scenarios for V2X and public safety use cases. In particular, this study
considers positioning for the UEs in in-coverage, partial coverage, and out-
of-coverage as per the network coverage definition in the current
specifications.
This document is a \'living\' document, i.e. it is permanently updated and
presented to TSG-RAN meetings until it is approved.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP RP-201518: \"Revised SID on Study on scenarios and requirements of
in-coverage, partial coverage, and out-of-coverage positioning use cases\".
> [3] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\".
>
> [4] 3GPP TS 22.186 v16.2.0: \"Enhancement of 3GPP support for V2X
> scenarios\".
>
> [5] 3GPP RP-210040: \"Reply LS to RP-201390 on requirements of in-coverage,
> partial coverage, and out-of-coverage positioning use cases,\" (source:
> 5GAA).
>
> [6] 3GPP RP-210036: \"Reply LS to 3GPP TSG RAN on requirements of in-
> coverage, partial coverage and out-of-coverage positioning use cases,\"
> (source: SAE Advanced Applications Technical Committee).
>
> [7] 3GPP TS 22.280: \"Mission Critical Services Common Requirements
> (MCCoRe)\".
>
> [8] 3GPP TR 22.872: \"Study on positioning use case\".
>
> [9] 3GPP TR 37.885: \"Study on evaluation methodology of new Vehicle-to-
> Everything (V2X) use cases for LTE and NR\".
>
> [10] 3GPP TR 38.802: \"Study on new radio access technology Physical layer
> aspects\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**absolute position:** absolute position is an estimate of the UE position in
2D/3D geographic coordinates (e.g., latitude, longitude, elevation) within a
coordinate system
**relative position:** relative position is an estimate of the UE position
relative to other network elements or relative to other UEs
**positioning service availability:** percentage value of the amount of time
the positioning service is delivering the required position-related data
within the performance requirements, divided by the amount of time the system
is expected to deliver the positioning service according to the specification
in the targeted service area.
**positioning service latency:** time elapsed between the event that triggers
the determination of the position-related data and the availability of the
position-related data at the system interface.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5GAA 5G Automotive Association
SAE AA TC SAE Advanced Applications Technical Committee
TTFF Time To First Fix
HD High Definition
RV Remote vehicle
TOD Tele-Operated Driving
MCX Mission Critical X, with X = PTT or X= Video or X= Data
# 4 Positioning use cases and requirements
## 4.1 Introduction
This clause summarizes the positioning use cases and requirements defined for
V2X and public safety in 3GPP specifications and input from other
organizations. Sources used in this summary are provided in Annex A for
information.
## 4.2 V2X
In 3GPP specifications, V2X positioning requirements can be found in TS 22.261
[3] and TS 22.186 [4]. TS 22.261 [3] specifies the high accuracy positioning
requirements for the 5G system and these requirements are summarized in its
Clause 7.3.2.2 with a note that these requirements include V2X. Seven
different positioning service levels are defined in Table 7.3.2.2-1 [3] in
terms of the horizontal and vertical accuracy, positioning service
availability, and positioning service latency. TS 22.186 [4] specifies the
relative lateral positioning requirement for general V2X use cases and the
relative longitudinal positioning requirement for the platooning use case in
its Clause 5.1 and 5.2.
5GAA provides positioning requirements for 58 V2X services that were
summarized into three groups [5]; the first group with tens of meters
accuracy, the second with lane level accuracy, and the third with sub-meter
level accuracy. The positioning requirements can be on the 3D/2D coordinates
(absolute position) or on the distance and/or angle (relative position) to a
reference point, e.g. another UE.
SAE AA TC informs that it is necessary to have a 3GPP positioning technology
which supports advanced V2X applications working even in various out-of-
coverage scenarios [6].
It is observed that the positioning requirements in V2X depend on the service
the UE operates. Also, the requirements are applicable to relative and
absolute positioning depending on the use case or the positioning service
level. In terms of the horizontal or lateral/longitudinal accuracy, the
requirements for the absolute position or relative position can be categorised
into three sets as follows by incorporating the requirements from the sources
mentioned above:
\- Set 1: 10 -- 50 m with 68 -- 95 % confidence level. This includes Group 1
in [5] and Service level 1 in [3].
\- Set 2: 1 -- 3 m with 95 -- 99 % confidence level. This includes Group 2 in
[5], Service level 2, 3, 4 in [3].
\- Set 3: 0.1 -- 0.5 m with 95 -- 99 % confidence level. This includes Group 3
in [5], Service level 5, 6, 7 in [3], the requirements in [4].
It is noted that all the three sets are applicable for absolute positioning
and relative positioning.
Requirements for other performance metrics are also defined in a range
depending on the positioning service level in TS 22.261 [3]; 2 -- 3 m
(absolute) or 0.2 m (relative) vertical accuracy, 95 -- 99.9% positioning
service availability, 10 ms -- 1 s positioning service latency.
Positioning service should be provided in indoor, outdoor, tunnel areas. The
UE velocity up to 250 km/h needs to be supported for outdoor and tunnel areas.
As long as the UE operates a V2X use case having the corresponding positioning
requirements, the requirements should be fulfilled when the UE is inside the
network coverage as well as when it is outside the network coverage. The
requirements should be also fulfilled when the GNSS-based positioning is not
available or not accurate enough.
## 4.3 Public safety
Public safety positioning requirements are defined in TS 22.261 [3] and TS
22.280 [7]. TS 22.261 [3] provides numerical positioning requirements for the
\"1st responders\" use case in Table B.1-1 in TS 22.261 [3]; 1 m horizontal
accuracy, 2 m (absolute) or 0.3 m (relative) vertical accuracy, 95 -- 98 %
positioning service availability. TS 22.280 [7] specifies some qualitative
positioning requirements in its Clause 5.11, 6.12, and 7.8. These requirements
are applicable to both relative and absolute positioning.
Positioning service should be provided both in indoor and outdoor areas. As
long as the UE operates a public safety use case having the corresponding
positioning requirements, the requirements should be fulfilled when the UE is
inside the network coverage as well as when it is outside the network
coverage. The requirements should be also fulfilled when the GNSS-based
positioning is not available or not accurate enough.
# 5 Potential deployment and operation scenarios
## 5.1 Network coverage
Three network coverage scenarios can be considered when at least two UEs are
involved in positioning for V2X and public safety use cases. Taking the case
of two UEs as an example, in-coverage scenario refers to the case where both
UEs are inside the network. Partial coverage means that one UE remains inside
the network coverage but the other UE is outside the network coverage. Out-of-
coverage scenario refers to the case where both UEs are outside the network
coverage. A UE may transit between in-coverage, partial coverage and out-of-
coverage scenarios.
There are V2X and public safety use cases that require positioning when there
is no network and no GNSS coverage.
Figures 5.1-1, 5.1-2, and 5.1-3 illustrate the in-coverage, partial coverage
and out-of-coverage scenarios, respectively.
{width="2.62992125984252in" height="1.468503937007874in"}
Figure 5.1-1: In-coverage scenario
{width="3.2440944881889764in" height="1.2598425196850394in"}
Figure 5.1-2: Partial coverage scenario
{width="1.3858267716535433in" height="0.7834645669291339in"}
Figure 5.1-3: Out-of-coverage scenario
## 5.2 Radio link
Uu interface (uplink and downlink), PC5 interface (sidelink), and their
combinations can be considered as the radio link for positioning.
Uu interface is available for UEs under in-coverage scenario, and also for UEs
under network coverage in partial coverage scenario, while PC5 interface is
available for UEs under in-coverage, partial coverage, out-of-coverage
scenarios.
A positioning operation can be called a Uu-based solution if it uses only
measurements on Uu interface (i.e., measurements on uplink and/or downlink).
An operation can be called a PC5-based solution if it uses only measurements
on PC5 interface (i.e., measurements on sidelink). An operation can be called
a hybrid solution if it uses measurements on both Uu and PC5 interfaces. In
addition to these RAT-dependent solutions, RAT-independent solutions (e.g.,
GNSS, sensors, etc.) can be used, where various technologies can complement
each other, where it is available and applicable.
The necessary information for positioning and the measurements for positioning
can be sent via Uu and/or PC5 interface.
## 5.3 Position calculation entity
Positioning solutions can be categorized by the entity performing the
positioning estimation. Network-based positioning refers to the solutions
where UE position is calculated by a network node. For this network-based
positioning, the UE may report necessary information to the network for the
calculation. UE-based positioning refers to the solution where UE position is
calculated by a UE.
The type of the position calculation entity does not limit which interface(s)
can be used for the radio link(s) in clause 5.2.
## 5.4 UE types
For V2X use cases, a UE involved in positioning can be installed in a vehicle,
a road side unit, or a device of a vulnerable road user.
A UE in a vehicle or a road side unit can be equipped with a distributed
antenna system where multiple antenna panels of a UE are installed in
different locations. A relevant antenna model for evaluation can be found in
[9].
For public safety use cases, a relevant antenna model for evaluation can be
found in [10].
Different UE types may have different power supply limitations, for example, a
UE used by a vulnerable road user may have limited battery capacity compared
to other types of UE, e.g., a UE installed in a vehicle or a road side unit.
## 5.5 Spectrum
For V2X use case, the ITS-dedicated spectrum can be considered for PC5
interface, and the spectrum licensed to mobile network operators (including
FR2) and the unlicensed spectrum can be considered for both Uu and PC5
interfaces. Note that there is no mechanism corresponding to regulatory
requirements to use unlicensed spectrum in Rel-17 NR sidelink.
For public safety use case, the spectrum licensed to mobile network operators
(including FR2) can be considered for both Uu and PC5 interfaces.
# 6 Conclusions
This technical report summarizes the positioning use cases and requirements
for V2X and public safety use cases. The V2X and PS requirements in this TR
are applicable to absolute and relative positioning. The positioning
requirements in V2X depend on the service the UE operates, and this TR
categorized the requirements into three sets as summarized in Clause 4.
The main aspects of potential deployment and operation scenarios are provided
in Clause 5 including:
\- Network coverage:
\- In-coverage, partial coverage, out of network coverage scenarios
\- When the UE operates a use case having the corresponding positioning
requirements, the requirements should be fulfilled when the UE is inside the
network coverage as well as when it is outside the network coverage.
\- Radio link:
\- Measurements on Uu interface (downlink/uplink), PC5 interface (sidelink)
and their combinations for UE positioning
\- Use of RAT-dependent and RAT-independent solutions
\- Position calculation entity:
\- Network-based and UE-based positioning solutions
\- UE types:
\- V2X: installed in a vehicle, a road-side unit or a device used by a
vulnerable road user, where different UE types may have different UE antenna
configurations and power supply limitations
\- Spectrum:
\- V2X: licensed, unlicensed spectrum for both Uu and PC5 air-interfaces and
ITS for PC5 air-interface. NOTE: There is no mechanism corresponding to
regulatory requirements to use unlicensed spectrum in Rel-17 NR sidelink.
\- Public safety: licensed spectrum for both Uu and PC5 air-interfaces.
###### ### Annex A: Sources of positioning requirements for V2X and public
safety
**[Sources in TS 22.261 [3]]{.underline}**
copied from TS 22.261 [3] Clause 7.3.2.2:
_The 5G system shall be able to provide positioning services with the
performance requirements reported in Table 7.3.2.2-1._
_NOTE: The requirements do not preclude any type of UE, including specific UE
such as for example V2X, MTC._
_Table 7.3.2.2-1 Performance requirements for Horizontal and Vertical
positioning service levels_
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **_P |_** A | **_A |_** P | **_P | ** | | | | | ositi | bsolu | ccura | ositi | ositi |_ Cove | | | | | oning | te(A) | cy** _| oning | oning | rage, | | | | | se | or | | se | se | e | | | | | rvice | R | * | rvice | rvice | nviro | | | | | lev | elati |__(95 | avail | laten | nment | | | | | el_**| ve(R) | % | abili | cy** _| of | | | | | | posi | confi | ty_**| | use | | | | | | tioni | dence | | | and | | | | | | ng** _| leve | | | UE | | | | | | | l)_**| | | v | | | | | | | | | | eloci | | | | | | | | | | ty** _| | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | | | *** | * | | |_**5G |**_5G | | | | | Horiz |__Ver | | | p | enh | | | | | ontal | tical | | | ositi | anced | | | | | A | A | | | oning | p | | | | | ccura | ccura | | | se | ositi | | | | | cy_**| cy** _| | | rvice | oning | | | | | | | | | ar | se | | | | | | *** | | | ea_**| rvice | | | | | | (note | | | | ar | | | | | | 1)**_| | | | ea_**| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | *** | | | | | | | | | | (note | | | | | | | | | | 2)**_| | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | |_**Ou | ** | | | | | | | | | tdoor |_Indo | | | | | | | | | and | or_** | | | | | | | | | tunne | | | | | | | | | | ls ___| | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |_ 1_ | _A _|_ 10 | _3 m_ | _95 |_ 1 s _|_ I | _NA_ | _I | | | | m_ | | %_| | ndoor | | ndoor | | | | | | | | - up | | - up | | | | | | | | to 30 | | to 30 | | | | | | | | km/h_ | | km/h _| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |_ Out | | | | | | | | | | door _| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |_( | | | | | | | | | | rural | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | rban) | | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | | 250 | | | | | | | | | | km/h _| | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |_ 2 _|_ A _|_ 3 m _|_ 3 m _|_ 99 | _1 s_ | _Out |_ Out | _I | | | | | | %_ | | door _| door_ | ndoor | | | | | | | | | | - up | | | | | | | | _( |_( | to 30 | | | | | | | | rural | dense | km/h _| | | | | | | | and | u | | | | | | | | | u | rban) | | | | | | | | | rban) | up to | | | | | | | | | up to | 60 | | | | | | | | | 500 | km/h_ | | | | | | | | | km/h | | | | | | | | | | for | * | | | | | | | | | t | Along | | | | | | | | | rains | roads | | | | | | | | | and | up to | | | | | | | | | up to | 250 | | | | | | | | | 250 | km/h | | | | | | | | | km/h | and | | | | | | | | | for | along | | | | | | | | | other | rai | | | | | | | | | vehi | lways | | | | | | | | | cles _| up to | | | | | | | | | | 500 | | | | | | | | | | km/h_ | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | _3_ | _A_ | _1 m_ | _2 m_ | _99 |_ 1 s _|_ Out | _Out |_ I | | | | | | %_| | door_ | door _| ndoor | | | | | | | | | | - up | | | | | | | |_( | _( | to 30 | | | | | | | | rural | dense | km/h_ | | | | | | | | and | u | | | | | | | | | u | rban) | | | | | | | | | rban) | up to | | | | | | | | | up to | 60 | | | | | | | | | 500 | km/h _| | | | | | | | | km/h | | | | | | | | | | for | * | | | | | | | | | t | Along | | | | | | | | | rains | roads | | | | | | | | | and | up to | | | | | | | | | up to | 250 | | | | | | | | | 250 | km/h | | | | | | | | | km/h | and | | | | | | | | | for | along | | | | | | | | | other | rai | | | | | | | | | vehi | lways | | | | | | | | | cles_ | up to | | | | | | | | | | 500 | | | | | | | | | | km/h _| | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |_ 4 _|_ A _|_ 1 m _|_ 2 m _|_ 99,9 | _15 |_ NA _|_ NA _|_ I | | | | | | %_| ms_ | | | ndoor | | | | | | | | | | - up | | | | | | | | | | to 30 | | | | | | | | | | km/h _| +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |_ 5 _|_ A _|_ 0,3 | _2 m_ | _99 |_ 1 s _|_ Out | _Out |_ I | | | | m _| | %_ | | door _| door_ | ndoor | | | | | | | | | | - up | | | | | | | | _(r |_( | to 30 | | | | | | | | ural) | dense | km/h _| | | | | | | | up to | u | | | | | | | | | 250 | rban) | | | | | | | | | km/h_ | up to | | | | | | | | | | 60 | | | | | | | | | | km/h _| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | * | | | | | | | | | | Along | | | | | | | | | | roads | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | along | | | | | | | | | | rai | | | | | | | | | | lways | | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | | 250 | | | | | | | | | | km/h_ | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | _6_ | _A_ | _0,3 |_ 2 m _|_ 99,9 | _10 |_ NA _|_ Out | _I | | | | m_ | | %_| ms_ | | door _| ndoor | | | | | | | | | | - up | | | | | | | | |_( | to 30 | | | | | | | | | dense | km/h _| | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | rban) | | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | | 60 | | | | | | | | | | km/h_ | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | _7_ | _R_ | _0,2 |_ 0,2 | _99 |_ 1 s _|_ I | | | | | | m _| m_ | %_| | ndoor | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | ou | | | | | | | | | | tdoor | | | | | | | | | | (r | | | | | | | | | | ural, | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | rban, | | | | | | | | | | dense | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | rban) | | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | | 30 | | | | | | | | | | km/h_ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | _Rel | | | | | | | | | | ative | | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | | ositi | | | | | | | | | | oning | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | | two | | | | | | | | | | UEs | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | | 10 m | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | 5G | | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | | ositi | | | | | | | | | | oning | | | | | | | | | | nodes | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | | 10 m | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | | | | (note | | | | | | | | | | 3)_ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | _NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | obje | | | | | | | | | | ctive | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ver | | | | | | | | | | tical | | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | | ositi | | | | | | | | | | oning | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | is to | | | | | | | | | | dete | | | | | | | | | | rmine | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | floor | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | | ndoor | | | | | | | | | | use | | | | | | | | | | cases | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | | istin | | | | | | | | | | guish | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | | super | | | | | | | | | | posed | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | racks | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | road | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | rail | | | | | | | | | | use | | | | | | | | | | cases | | | | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | | | | bridg | | | | | | | | | | es)._ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | _NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | | ndoor | | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | | ludes | | | | | | | | | | loc | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | | buil | | | | | | | | | | dings | | | | | | | | | | such | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | off | | | | | | | | | | ices, | | | | | | | | | | hosp | | | | | | | | | | ital, | | | | | | | | | | indus | | | | | | | | | | trial | | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | | uildi | | | | | | | | | | ngs._ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | _NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: 5G | | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | | ositi | | | | | | | | | | oning | | | | | | | | | | nodes | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | infr | | | | | | | | | | astru | | | | | | | | | | cture | | | | | | | | | | equi | | | | | | | | | | pment | | | | | | | | | | dep | | | | | | | | | | loyed | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | | rvice | | | | | | | | | | area | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | en | | | | | | | | | | hance | | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | | ositi | | | | | | | | | | oning | | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | | pabil | | | | | | | | | | ities | | | | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | acons | | | | | | | | | | dep | | | | | | | | | | loyed | | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | peri | | | | | | | | | | meter | | | | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | | | | rende | | | | | | | | | | zvous | | | | | | | | | | area | | | | | | | | | | or on | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | side | | | | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | | | | wa | | | | | | | | | | rehou | | | | | | | | | | se)._ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
_The 5G system shall be able to provide the 5G positioning services with a
TTFF less than 30 s and, for some 5G positioning services, shall support
mechanisms to provide a TTFF less than 10 s.NOTE 1: In some services, a TTFF
of less than 10s may only be achievable at the expense of a relaxation of some
other performances (e.g. horizontal accuracy may be 1 m or 3 m after 10 s
TTFF, and reach a steady state accuracy of 0,3 m after 30 s)._
_The 5G system shall support a mechanism to determine the UE\'s velocity with
a positioning service availability of 99%, an accuracy better than 0,5 m/s for
the speed and an accuracy better than 5 degree for the 3-Dimension direction
of travel._
_The 5G system shall support a mechanism to determine the UE\'s heading with
an accuracy better than 30 degrees (0,54 rad) and a positioning service
availability of 99,9 % for static users and with an accuracy better than 10
degrees (0,17 rad) and a positioning service availability of 99 % for users up
to 10 km/h._
_The 5G system shall support positioning technologies that allow the UE to
operate at Service Level 1 for at least 12 years using less than 1800 mWh of
battery capacity, assuming multiple position updates per hour._
_NOTE 2: This requirement aims energy-efficient positioning technologies
draining a minimal energy on the UE battery. It derives from use cases, such
as asset tracking, with a small form-factor battery representative of an IoT
device. This requirement may translate into an energy consumption for the
UE\'s positioning functions in the order of 20 mJ per fix._
_NOTE 3: This requirement does not preclude the use of higher energy
consumption to fulfil higher position update rates than the one above, or
other KPIs than those of Service Level 1 (e.g. more accurate service levels)._
copied from TS 22.261 [3] Annex B (only a part of the table is copied):
_Table B.1-1 Typical needs to support example use cases from vertical
industries._
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | **_Use cases_** | **_Description_** | **_Main KPIs range and | | | | drivers_** | +==================+========================+========================+ | _1st responders_ | _Tracking and guidance |_ Service area is both | | | of 1st responders, | indoor and outdoor _| | | with requirements for | | | | high-accuracy in the |_ Accuracy: \ 95 % | | | | (98% outdoor)_ | | | | | | | | _Other KPI drivers | | | | include: MCX, | | | | confidence, | | | | event-triggered | | | | report_ | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | _Road_ | _Use cases involving |_ Accuracy: 1-3m | | | road vehicles such as | horizontal (with \<1m | | | traffic monitoring, | across-track for lane | | | road-user charging | detection), \<2,5 m | | | (e.g. Road-Tolling, | vertical,_| | | insurance mechanisms, | | | | etc.) which require |_ Velocity \< 2m/s, | | | positioning or | Availability: 95-99%_| | | tracking of vehicles | | | | at lane level, but |_ Other KPI drivers | | | also some awareness of | include: tampering | | | position in the | detection and | | | vertical domain (e.g. | prevention (typically | | | bridges) Service area | for Road User | | | is outdoor, but may | Charging)_| | | include tunnels._ | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
**[Sources in TS 22.186 [4]]{.underline}**
copied from TS 22.186 [4] Clause 5.1:
_[R.5.1-007] The 3GPP system shall support relative lateral position accuracy
of 0.1 m between UEs supporting V2X application._
copied from TS 22.186 [4] Clause 5.2:
_[R.5.2-003] The 3GPP system shall support relative longitudinal position
accuracy of less than 0.5 m for UEs supporting V2X application for platooning
in proximity._
**[Sources in the input from 5GAA [5]]{.underline}**
The positioning requirements according to the 5GAA TRs on Use Cases Vol. I and
II can be summarized into three main groups, all at the highest speed a
participating vehicle might be driving at, depending on the type of road
environment and/or safety rules (e.g. 250km/h on German Autobahn):
1) Relatively lax, 10s of meters with 1 sigma (information provisioning)
\- Traffic Jam Warning - Urban Scenario on Road Warning
\- Traffic Jam Warning - Rural Scenario on Road Warning
\- Traffic Jam Warning - Highway Scenario on Road Warning
\- Rural Scenario on Route Information
\- Highway Scenario on Route Information
\- Software Update - Conventional-Routine/Urgent, Autonomous-Routine
\- Software Update - Autonomous-Urgent
\- Software Update - Without Infrastructure, Vehicle to Workshop
\- Remote Automated Driving Cancellation
\- HD Content Delivery - High-End Service for cars
\- HD Content Delivery - Low-End Service for cars
\- HD Content Delivery -- Bus Passenger Service
\- Software Update of Reconfigurable Radio System
\- Patient Transport Monitoring
\- Automated Valet Parking (Wake Up)
2) Lane level accuracy, 1.5 m with 3 sigma (e.g. day1 safety use cases)
\- Cross-Traffic Left-Turn Assist
\- Intersection Movement Assist
\- Emergency Break Warning
\- Lane Change Warning - lagging vehicle, leading vehicle, Highway
\- Lane Change Warning - lagging vehicle, leading vehicle, urban
\- Lane Change Warning - not permitted case, rural
\- Vehicle Health Monitoring
\- Speed Harmonization
\- See-Through for Pass Maneuver
\- Obstructed View Assist via CCTV
\- Obstructed View Assist via Remote Vehicles
\- Continuous Traffic Flow via Green Lights Coordination
\- Vehicle collects hazard and road event for AV
\- Vehicles Platooning in Steady State
\- Cooperative Lane Merge
\- Autonomous Vehicle Disengagement Report
\- Accident Report
\- Awareness Confirmation
\- Coordinated, Cooperative Driving Manoeuvre - Cooperative Lane Change
\- Coordinated, Cooperative Driving Manoeuvre - Road Blockage
\- Bus Lane Sharing Request
\- Bus Lane Sharing Revocation
\- Vehicle Decision Assist - RV Waiting for a Short Period of Time, Broken
Down, Bus Having to Wait
\- Vehicle Decision Assist - Slow Vehicle en Route
3) Below meter level accuracy, e.g. 0.1 m with 3 sigma (e.g. automated driving
or teleoperated driving)
\- High Definition Sensor Sharing
\- Vulnerable Road User - Awareness near potentially dangerous situations
Urban
\- Vulnerable Road User - Collision risk warning
\- Real-Time Situational Awareness & High-Definition Maps
\- Group Start
\- Tele-Operated Driving (TOD)
\- TOD support
\- TOD for Automated Parking
\- Cooperative Manoeuvres of Autonomous Vehicles for Emergency Situations
\- High definition map collecting & sharing
\- Automated Intersection crossing
\- Infrastructure Assisted Environment Perception - Data Distribution about
Objects on the Road
\- Infrastructure Assisted Environment Perception - Individual Data
Transmission in Form of Trajectories or Actuation Commands)
\- Infrastructure based Tele-Operated Driving
\- Automated Valet Parking -- Joint Authentication and Proof of Localisation
\- Coordinated, Cooperative Driving Manoeuvre - Pedestrian Crossing
\- Cooperative Traffic gap
\- Cooperative Lateral Parking
\- Cooperative Curbside Management
**[Sources in 3GPP TS 22.280 [7]]{.underline}**
copied from TS 22.280 [7] Clause 5.11:
_[R-5.11-001] The MCX Service shall support obtaining and conveying Location
information describing the position of the MCX UE._
_[R-5.11-002] The MCX Service should support obtaining and conveying high
accuracy Location information describing the position of the MCX UE._
_[R-5.11-002a] The MCX Service shall be able to provide a mechanism for
obtaining high accuracy Location information by integrating position
information from multiple external sources (e.g. magnetometers, orientation
sensors, GNSS)_
_[R-5.11-003] The MCX Service shall provide for the flexibility to convey
future formats of Location information._
_[R-5.11-004] The MCX Service shall provide a means for MCX Service
Administrators to manage the privacy of Location information for MCX Users
within their authority._
_[R-5.11-005] An authorized MCX User shall be able to control the supplying of
Location information by the MCX UE for MCX Service communications._
_[R-5.11-006] The conveyed Location information shall be the most recently
obtained information about the position of the MCX UE at the time of the
Location information conveyance._
_[R-5.11-007] The MCX Service shall be capable of configuring and re-
configuring one or more Location information update triggers (i.e., identified
conditions that, when satisfied, cause the MCX UE to report its current
Location information)._
_[R-5.11-008] The MCX Service shall be able to modify Location information
update triggers of an MCX User while the MCX User is on the network._
_[R-5.11-009] The MCX Service shall provide a means for an MCX UE to send a
Location information update whenever a trigger condition is satisfied (e.g.,
initial registration, distance travelled, elapsed time, cell change, tracking
area change, PLMN change, MCX Service communication initiation)._
_[R-5.11-010] The MCX Service shall provide a means for an MCX UE to send a
Location information update whenever the MCX User initiates an MCX Service
Emergency Alert._
_[R-5.11-011] The MCX Service shall provide a means for an MCX UE to send a
Location information update whenever the MCX User initiates an MCX Service
Emergency Group Communication._
_[R-5.11-012] The MCX Service shall provide a means for an MCX UE to send a
Location information update if the MCX User is in an MCX Service Emergency
State and a configured amount of time has passed since the previous location
information update._
_[R-5.11-013] The MCX Service shall provide a means for an MCX UE to send a
Location information update whenever a trigger condition is satisfied while
the MCX User is in MCX Service Emergency State (e.g., initial registration,
distance travelled, elapsed time, cell change, tracking area change, PLMN
change, MCX Service communication initiation)._
_NOTE 1: The Location information update triggers for an MCX User in an MCX
Service Emergency State might be different than the Location information
update triggers used when the MCX User is not in an MCX Service Emergency
State._
_[R-5.11-014] The MCX Service shall provide a means for an MCX Service
Administrator to define geographical areas to be used for Location information
update triggers for MCX Users within their authority._
_[R-5.11-015] The MCX Service shall provide a means for an MCX UE in a
predefined area to send a Location information update whenever a trigger
condition configured in an MCX User\'s active MCX Service User Profile is
satisfied (e.g., initial registration, distance travelled, elapsed time, cell
change, tracking area change, PLMN change, MCX Service communication
initiation)._
_NOTE 2: The Location information update triggers for an MCX User in a
predefined area might be different than the Location information update
triggers used when the MCX User is not in a predefined area._
copied from TS 22.280 [7] Clause 6.12:
_[R-6.12-001] The MCX Service shall provide Location information of the
transmitting MCX UE to receiving MCX UEs subject to privacy restrictions._
_[R-6.12-002] The MCX Service shall support conveyance of Location information
provided by 3GPP location services._
_[R-6.12-003] The MCX Service shall provide a means for an authorized MCX User
to restrict the dissemination of his Location information._
_[R-6.12-004] The MCX Service shall provide end-to-end confidentiality of
Location information._
_[R-6.12-005] The MCX Service shall provide authentication of messages
carrying Location information._
_[R-6.12-006] The MCX Service shall provide a means for an authorized MCX User
to activate a one-time Location information report of an MCX User and periodic
Location information update reports of an MCX User or a specific Functional
Alias._
_[R-6.12-007] The MCX Service shall provide a means for an authorized MCX User
to deactivate periodic Location information update report of an MCX User._
copied from TS 22.280 [7] Clause 7.8:
_[R-7.8-001] An MCX UE shall be capable of transmitting its Location, if
known, to other MCX UEs when operating off the network, subject to privacy
restrictions._
_[R-7.8-002] An MCX UE shall be capable of providing a mechanism for obtaining
the distance between the MCX UE and other MCX UEs within communication range._
_[R-7.8-003] The Off-Network MCX Service shall provide a means for an
authorized MCX User to activate a one-time Location information report of a
particular target MCX User within communication range._
**[Sources in 3GPP TR 22.872 [8]]{.underline}**
summarized requirements from TR 22.872 [8]:
_Table A.1 Summary of positioninig requirements related to public safety in
[8]_
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **Use |** Abs | **Rel | ** |** He | ** | **UE | | case | olute** | ative**| Availab | ading** | Latency | speed**| | set** | | | ility**| | for | | | | * |** acc | | | p | **acc | | | *Positi | uracy** | | | osition | uracy**| | | oning** | | | | est | | | | | | | | imation | | | | **Acc | | | | of UE** | | | | uracy** | | | | | | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+ | Set1 | Outdoor | Outdoor | Outdoor | / | Outdoor | / | | | | | | | | | | (A | H | H | [98%] | | [5]s | | | ccurate | :[1]m | :[1]m | | | | | | Posi | | | | | TTFF | | | tioning | V:\ | V:\ | | | | | | for | [0.3]m | [0.3]m | | | [10]s | | | 1^st^ | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | ponder) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | Indoor | Indoor | Indoor | / | Indoor | / | | | | | | | | | | | H | H | [95%] | | [1]s | | | | :[1]m | :[1]m | | | | | | | | | | | TTFF | | | | V | V | | | | | | | :[2]m | :[2]m | | | [10]s | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Set2 | H: | H: | / | / | / | / | | | [50]m | [50]m | | | | | | (A | | | | | | | | lerting | V | V | | | | | | nearby | :[3]m | :[3]m | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | ergency | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | ponder) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
#