# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for Work Item on New Radio (NR)
Access Technology, covering the new frequency range between 47.2- 48.2 GHz for
NR.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.141-2: \"NR; Base Station (BS) conformance testing; Part 2:
Radiated conformance testing\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.133: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\"
[5] 3GPP TS 38.104: \"NR; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and
reception\".
[6] World Radiocommunication Conference 2019 (WRC-19) Final Acts, ITU-R
[7] Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 30, FCC
[8] Radio Regulations, Articles, Edition of 2020, ITU
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
ΔF~Global~ Global frequency raster granularity
ΔF~Raster~ Channel raster granularity
F~REF-Offs~ Offset used for calculating F~REF~
F~step,X~ Frequency steps for the OTA transmitter spurious emissions
N~REF~ NR Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (NR-ARFCN)
N~REF-Offs~ Offset used for calculating N~REF~
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
BS Base Station
BW Bandwidth
EIRP Effective Isotropic Radiated Power
FR Frequency Range
GSCN Global Synchronization Channel Number
ICS In-Channel Selectivity
ITU‑R Radiocommunication Sector of the International Telecommunication Union
NR New Radio
NR-ARFCN NR Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
OTA Over The Air
RF Radio Frequency
RX Receiver
SCS Sub-Carrier Spacing
TDD Time division Duplex
# 4 Background
## 4.1 ITU-R
As part of facilitating the development of 5G mobile networks, WRC-19
identified the 47 GHz frequency band (47.2-48.2 GHz) for International Mobile
Telecommunications (IMT) under Footnote 5.553B of the ITU Radio Regulations
for use in 71 nations across Africa, Europe, the Middle East and Asia Pacific
(ITU Regions 1 and 3 respectively), in addition to the entire Americas Region
(ITU Region 2, which consists of 35 nations) [6]. 4.1-1 is the extract of the
Radio Regulations ([8]) table of allocations providing the services allocated
in the 47.2-48.2 GHz frequency range
Table 4.1-1: Allocation information in the 47.2-48.2 GHz frequency range
+----------------------------+----------------------------+----------+ | Allocation to services | | | +============================+============================+==========+ | Region 1 | Region 2 | Region 3 | +----------------------------+----------------------------+----------+ | **47.2-47.5** FIXED | | | | | | | | FIXED-SATELLITE | | | | (Earth-to-space) 5.550C | | | | 5.552 | | | | | | | | MOBILE 5.553B | | | | | | | | 5.552A | | | +----------------------------+----------------------------+----------+ | 47.5-47.9 | 47.5-47.9 | | | | | | | FIXED | FIXED | | | | | | | FIXED-SATELLITE\ | FIXED-SATELLITE | | | (Earth-to-space) 5.550C | (Earth-to-space) 5.550C | | | 5.552 | 5.552 | | | | | | | (space-to-Earth) 5.516B | MOBILE 5.553B | | | 5.554A | | | | | | | | MOBILE 5.553B | | | +----------------------------+----------------------------+----------+ | **47.9-48.2** FIXED | | | | | | | | FIXED-SATELLITE | | | | (Earth-to-space) 5.550C | | | | 5.552 | | | | | | | | MOBILE 5.553B | | | | | | | | 5.552A | | | +----------------------------+----------------------------+----------+
With the footnote 5.553B: In Region 2 and Algeria, Angola, Saudi Arabia,
Australia, Bahrain, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Central
African Rep., Comoros, Congo (Rep. of the), Korea (Rep. of), Côte d'Ivoire,
Djibouti, Egypt, United Arab Emirates, Eswatini, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia,
Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Equatorial Guinea, India, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Iraq, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Lithuania,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Malawi, Mali, Morocco, Mauritius, Mauritania,
Mozambique, Namibia, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Uganda, Qatar, the Syrian Arab
Republic, the Dem. Rep. of the Congo, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal,
Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovenia, Somalia, Sudan, South Sudan,
South Africa, Sweden, Tanzania, Chad, Togo, Tunisia, Zambia and Zimbabwe, the
frequency band 47.2-48.2 GHz is identified for use by administrations wishing
to implement International Mobile Telecommunications (IMT). This
identification does not preclude the use of this frequency band by any
application of the services to which it is allocated, and does not establish
any priority in the Radio Regulations. Resolution 243 (WRC-19) applies.
(WRC-19).
According to Resolution 243 (WRC-19) [6], IMT in 47.2-48.2 GHz may coexist
with satellite services and IMT base stations may require some measure to
protect the services by bilateral agreement and possibly with site engineering
solutions. Such protection measure is not a scope of 3GPP work, therefore, no
specific coexistence requirement is specified in 3GPP for the mobile and base
stations to protect other services for example by having additional spurious
emission requirements.
However, it cannot be excluded any requirement is introduced by individual
administration in nation level in the future to protect the service in the
same or adjacent bands. Current 3GPP framework is flexible enough to introduce
additional requirement later by Network signalling mechanism. Therefore, this
band can be reused even if additional coexistence requirement is introduced in
future by some administrations.
## 4.2 FCC
The US FCC auctioned the 47 GHz band beginning in December 2019 as part of
Auction 103. The 47 GHz band (47.2-48.2 GHz) was auctioned in 10 blocks of 100
megahertz in each PEA (Partial Economic Area) license. The auction was
concluded on 3/5/2020.
The radio regulatory requirements in FCC rules are specified in CFR Title 47
Part 30 [7]. The channelization is 100 MHz starting from 47.2 GHz ending at
48.2 GHz. The emission requirements for both BS and UE are aligned with other
FR2 bands in FCC, i.e., bands n260, and n261 in 3GPP.
The power limits and unwanted emissions for the transportable station
(intended for CPE devices) are consistent with the existing UE power class 1
for FR2 bands. The ones for the mobile stations are consistent with the
existing FR2 UE power class 2, 3, and 4.
Table 4.2-1 captures channel arrangement, power limits and unwanted emissions
specified by FCC.
Table 4.2-1: FCC requirements
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | Channel arrangement | 47.2-47.3 GHz; 47.3-47.4 GHz; 47.4-47.5 GHz; | | | 47.5-47.6 GHz; 47.6-47.7 GHz; 47.7-47.8 GHz; | | | 47.8-47.9 GHz; 47.9-48.0 GHz; 48.0-48.1 GHz; | | | and 48.1-48.2 GHz | +=====================+===============================================+ | Power limit (EIRP) | Base station: +75 dBm/100MHz | | | | | | Mobile station: +43 dBm | | | | | | Transportable station: +55 dBm | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | Unwanted emissions | -5 dBm/MHz (within 10% of channel bandwidth | | | separation) | | | | | | -13 dBm/MHz (outside more than 10% of channel | | | bandwidth apart) | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
# 5 NR Frequency band definition
The new band 47.2-48.2 GHz is within the range of FR2 (24250 -- 52600 MHz) and
is proposed as a TDD band (Table 5-1). The first unused FR2 band number, n262,
is proposed for this new band.
Table 5-1: New NR band in FR2
Band number **UL** **DL** **Duplex mode**
* * *
n262 47.2 -- 48.2 GHz 47.2 -- 48.2 GHz TDD
# 6 Channel numbering and channel bandwidth
Though the channelization in FCC rules is 100 MHz, it is not precluded to use
50 MHz channel bandwidth. Allocation block size is still unknown in other
administrations. For maximum flexibility, the channel bandwidths for NR band
n262 is proposed to be aligned with the existing FR2 bands as shown in Table
6-1.
Table 6-1: NR channel bandwidth in the frequency range between 47.2-48.2 GHz
NR band Channel bandwidth
* * *
Band number data SCS(kHz) 50 MHz 100 MHz 200 MHz 400 MHz n262 60 Yes Yes Yes  
120 Yes Yes Yes Yes
NR-ARFCN parameters for the global frequency raster are presented in TS
38.104, table 6-2:
Table 6-2: NR-ARFCN parameters for the global frequency raster
Frequency range (MHz) ΔF~Global~ (kHz) F~REF-Offs~ (MHz) N~REF-Offs~ Range of
N~REF~
* * *
0 -- 3000 5 0 0 0 -- 599999 3000 -- 24250 15 3000 600000 600000 -- 2016666
24250 -- 100000 60 24250.08 2016667 2016667 -- 3279165
Using information above and the equation F~REF~ = F~REF-Offs~ + ΔF~Global~
(N~REF~ -- N~REF-Offs~), the channel raster for n262 is also proposed to cover
all the frequency with the 60/120 kHz channel raster aligned with the other F2
band as presented in Table 6-3.
Table 6-3: Applicable NR-ARFCN in the frequency range between 47.2-48.2 GHz
+-------------------+------------+----------------------------------+ | NR Operating Band | ΔF~Raster~ | Uplink and Downlink | | | | | | | (kHz) | Range of N~REF~ | | | | | | | | (First -- \ \-- Last) | +===================+============+==================================+ | n262 | 60 | 2399166 -- \ \-- 2415832 | +-------------------+------------+----------------------------------+ | | 120 | 2399167 -- \ \-- 2415831 | +-------------------+------------+----------------------------------+
The synchronization raster in the frequency range between 47.2-48.2 GHz is
given in Table 6-4. The distance between applicable GSCN entries is given by
the \ indicated in Table 6-4 with the step size interval of 17.28
MHz.
Table 6-4: Applicable SS raster entries in the frequency range between
39.5-43.5 GHz
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | NR Operating | SS Block SCS | SS Block | Range of GSCN | | Band | | pattern^1^ | | | | | | (First -- | | | | | \ | | | | | -- Last) | +================+==============+================+================+ | n262 | 120 kHz | Case D | 23586 -- \ | | | | | -- 23641 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 240 kHz | Case E | 23588 -- \ | | | | | -- 23640 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE: SS Block | | | | | pattern is | | | | | defined in | | | | | subclause 4.1 | | | | | in TS 38.213. | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
# 7 Configurations for intra-band contiguous CA
Table 7-1: NR CA configurations, bandwidth combination sets, and fallback
group defined for intra-band contiguous CA
NR CA configuration | Uplink CA configurations | BWChannel (MHz) | BWChannel (MHz) | BWChannel (MHz) | BWChannel (MHz) | BWChannel (MHz) | BWChannel (MHz) | BWChannel (MHz) | BWChannel (MHz) | Maximum aggregated BW (MHz) | BCS | Fallback group  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA_n262G | CA_n262G | 50, 100 | 100 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0 | 3  
CA_n262H | CA_n262G CA_n262H | 50, 100 | 100 | 100 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0 |   
CA_n262I | CA_n262G CA_n262H CA_n262I | 50, 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 |  |  |  |  | 400 | 0 |   
CA_n262J | CA_n262G CA_n262H CA_n262I CA_n262J | 50, 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 |  |  |  | 500 | 0 |   
CA_n262K | CA_n262G CA_n262H CA_n262I CA_n262J CA_n262K | 50, 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 |  |  | 600 | 0 |   
CA_n262L | CA_n262G CA_n262H CA_n262I CA_n262J CA_n262K CA_n262L | 50, 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 |  | 700 | 0 |   
CA_n262M | CA_n262G CA_n262H CA_n262I CA_n262J CA_n262K CA_n262L CA_n262M | 50, 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 800 | 0 |   
# 8 RF requirements
## 8.1 UE specific
### 8.1.1 Transmitter characteristics
The following requirements define the maximum output power radiated by the UE
for any transmission bandwidth within the channel bandwidth for non-CA
configuration, unless otherwise stated. The period of measurement shall be at
least one sub frame (1ms). The minimum output power values for EIRP are found
in Table 8.1.1-1. The requirement is verified with the test metric of total
component of EIRP (Link=TX beam peak direction, Meas=Link angle). The
requirement for the UE which supports a single FR2 band is specified in Table
8.1.1-1. The requirement for the UE which supports multiple FR2 bands is
specified in both Table 8.1.1-1 and Table 8.1.1-4.
Table 8.1.1-1: UE minimum peak EIRP for power class 1, 2, 3 and 4
Operating band Min peak EIRP (dBm)
* * *
                                                                               PC1                   PC2    PC3    PC4
n262 34.2 22.9 16.0 28.3 NOTE 1: Minimum peak EIRP is defined as the lower
limit without tolerance.
The maximum output power values for TRP and EIRP are found on the Table
8.1.1-2. The max allowed EIRP is derived from regulatory requirements [8]. The
requirements are verified with the test metrics of TRP (Link=TX beam peak
direction, Meas=TRP grid) in beam locked mode and the total component of EIRP
(Link=TX beam peak direction, Meas=Link angle.
Table 8.1.1-2: UE maximum output power limits for power class 1, 2, 3 and 4
Operating band Power Class Max TRP (dBm) Max EIRP (dBm)
* * *
n262 PC1 35 55 PC2 23 43 PC3 23 43 PC4 23 43
The minimum EIRP at the 50^th^ percentile of the distribution of radiated
power measured over the full sphere around the UE is defined as the spherical
coverage requirement and is found in Table 8.1.1-3 below. The requirement is
verified with the test metric of the total component of EIRP (Link=Beam peak
search grids, Meas=Link angle). The requirement for the UE which supports a
single FR2 band is specified in Table 8.1.1-3. The requirement for the UE
which supports multiple FR2 bands is specified in both Table 8.1.1-3 and Table
8.1.1-4.
Table 8.1.1-3: UE spherical coverage for power class 1, 2, 3 and 4
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Operating | Min EIRP | | | | | band | | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | | PC1 | PC2 | PC3 | PC4 | | | | | | | | | at 85 | at 60 | at 50 | at 20 | | | %-tile CDF | %-tile CDF | %-tile CDF | %-tile CDF | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | n262 | 26.0 | 11.0 | 2.9 | 16.2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | Minimum | | | | | | EIRP at 50 | | | | | | %-tile CDF | | | | | | is defined | | | | | | as the | | | | | | lower limit | | | | | | without | | | | | | tolerance. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
For the UEs that support multiple FR2 bands, minimum requirement for peak EIRP
and EIRP spherical coverage in Tables 8.1.1-1 and 8.1.1-3 shall be decreased
per band, respectively, by the peak EIRP relaxation parameter ∆MB~P,n~ and
EIRP spherical coverage relaxation parameter ∆MB~S,n~, as defined in Table
8.1.1-4.
Table 8.1.1-4: UE multi-band relaxation factors for power class 3
+----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | **Band** | **∆MB~P,n~ (dB)** | **∆MB~S,n~ (dB)** | +============================+===================+===================+ | n257 | 0.7^3^ | 0.7^3^ | +----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | n258 | 0.6 | 0.7 | +----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | n259 | 0.5 | 0.4 | +----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | n260 | 0.5^1^ | 0.4^1^ | +----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | n261 | 0.5^2,4^ | 0.7^4^ | +----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | n262 | 0.7 | 0.7 | +----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Note 1: n260 peak and | | | | spherical relaxations are | | | | 0 dB for UE that | | | | exclusively supports | | | | n261+n260 | | | | | | | | Note 2: n261 peak | | | | relaxation is 0 dB for UE | | | | that exclusively supports | | | | n261+n260 | | | | | | | | Note 3: n257 peak and | | | | spherical relaxations are | | | | 0 dB for UE that | | | | exclusively supports | | | | n261+n257 | | | | | | | | Note 4: n261 peak and | | | | spherical relaxations are | | | | 0 dB for UE that | | | | exclusively supports | | | | n261+n257 | | | +----------------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
The minimum output power shall not exceed the values specified in Table
8.8.1-5 for each operating band supported. The minimum power is verified in
beam locked mode with the test metric of EIRP (Link=TX beam peak direction,
Meas=Link angle).
Table 8.1.1-5: Minimum output power for power class 1, 2, 3 and 4
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Operating | Power Class | Channel | Minimum | Measurement | | band | | bandwidth | output | bandwidth | | | | | power | | | | | (MHz) | | (MHz) | | | | | (dBm) | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | n262 | PC1 | 50 | 4 | 47.58 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 100 | 4 | 95.16 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 200 | 4 | 190.20 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 400 | 4 | 380.28 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | PC2, PC3 | 50 | -13 | 47.58 | | | and PC4 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 100 | -13 | 95.16 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 200 | -13 | 190.20 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 400 | -13 | 380.28 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
The transmit OFF power is defined as the TRP in the channel bandwidth when the
transmitter is OFF. The transmitter is considered OFF when the UE is not
allowed to transmit on any of its ports.
The transmit OFF power shall not exceed the values specified in Table 8.8.1-6
for each operating band supported. The requirement is verified with the test
metric of TRP (Link=TX beam peak direction, Meas=TRP grid).
Table 8.8.1-6: Transmit OFF power
Operating band Channel bandwidth / Transmit OFF power (dBm) / measurement
bandwidth
* * *
                   50 MHz                                                                 100 MHz     200 MHz      400 MHz
n262 -35 -35 -35 -35 47.58 MHz 95.16 MHz 190.20 MHz 380.28 MHz
Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) is the ratio of the filtered mean
power centred on the assigned channel frequency to the filtered mean power
centred on an adjacent channel frequency. ACLR requirement is specified for a
scenario in which adjacent carrier is another NR channel**.**
NR Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (NR~ACLR~) is the ratio of the
filtered mean power centred on the assigned channel frequency to the filtered
mean power centred on an adjacent channel frequency at nominal channel
spacing. The assigned NR channel power and adjacent NR channel power are
measured with rectangular filters with measurement bandwidths specified in
Table 8.8.1-7.
If the measured adjacent channel power is greater than --35 dBm then the
NR~ACLR~ shall be higher than the value specified in Table 8.8.1-7. The
requirement is verified in beam locked mode with the test metric of TRP
(Link=TX beam peak direction, Meas=TRP grid).
Table 8.8.1-7: General requirements for NR~ACLR~
+---------------------+---------------------+-------+--------+--------+ | | Channel bandwidth / | | | | | | NR~ACLR~ / | | | | | | Measurement | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | +=====================+=====================+=======+========+========+ | | 50 | 100 | 200 | 400 | | | | | | | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | +---------------------+---------------------+-------+--------+--------+ | NR~ACLR~ for band | 16 dB | 16 dB | 16 dB | 16 dB | | n262 | | | | | +---------------------+---------------------+-------+--------+--------+ | NR channel | 47.58 | 95.16 | 190.20 | 380.28 | | measurement | | | | | | bandwidth (MHz) | | | | | +---------------------+---------------------+-------+--------+--------+ | Adjacent channel | +50 | +100 | +200 | +400 | | centre frequency | | | | | | offset (MHz) | / | / | / | / | | | | | | | | | -50 | -100 | -200 | -400 | +---------------------+---------------------+-------+--------+--------+
This table 8.8.1-8 specifies the requirements for coexistence with protected
bands.
Table 8.8.1-8: Requirements
* * *
NR Band Spurious emission  
Protected band/frequency range Frequency range (MHz) Maximum Level (dBm) MBW
(MHz) NOTE  
n260 NR Band 257 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -5 100  
NR Band 261 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -5 100  
NR Band 262 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -5 100  
Frequency range 57000 - 66000 2 100  
n261 NR Band 260 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -2 100  
NR Band 262 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -5 100  
Frequency range 57000 - 66000 2 100  
n262 NR Band 260 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -2 100  
NR Band 261 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -5 100  
Frequency range 57000 - 66000 2 100
* * *
### 8.1.2 Receiver characteristics
The throughput shall be ≥ 95 % of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channels as specified in Annexes A.2.3.2 and A.3.3.2 (with one
sided dynamic OCNG Pattern OP.1 TDD for the DL-signal as described in Annex
A.5.2.1) with peak reference sensitivity specified in Table 8.1.2-1. The
requirement is verified with the test metric of EIS (Link=RX beam peak
direction, Meas=Link Angle).
For the UEs that support multiple FR2 bands, the minimum requirement for
Reference sensitivity in Table 8.1.2-1 shall be increased per band,
respectively, by the reference sensitivity relaxation parameter ∆MB~P,n~ as
specified in clause 8.1.1. The requirement for the UE which supports a single
FR2 band is specified in Table 8.1.2-1. The requirement for the UE which
supports multiple FR2 bands is specified in both Table 8.1.2-1 and Table
8.1.1-4.
Table 8.1.2-1: Reference sensitivity for power class 1, 2, 3 and 4
Operating band Power Class REFSENS (dBm) / Channel bandwidth
* * *
                                                                                              50 MHz                              100 MHz   200 MHz   400 MHz
n262 PC1 -92.5 -89.5 -86.5 -83.5 PC2 -86.8 -83.8 -80.8 -77.5 PC3 -82.8 -79.8
-76.8 -73.8 PC4 -91.0 -88.0 -85.0 -82.0 NOTE 1: The transmitter shall be set
to P~UMAX~ as defined in clause 6.2.4.
The REFSENS requirement shall be met for an uplink transmission using QPSK
DFT-s-OFDM waveforms and for uplink transmission bandwidth less than or equal
to that specified in Table 8.1.2-1.
Unless given by Table 7.3.2.1-3 in TS 38.101-2, the minimum requirements for
reference sensitivity shall be verified with the network signalling value
NS_200 (Table 6.2.3.1-1 in TS 38.101-2) configured. The maximum EIS at the
50^th^ percentile of the CCDF of EIS measured over the full sphere around the
UE is defined as the spherical coverage requirement and is found in Table
8.1.2-2 below. The requirement is verified with the test metric of EIS
(Link=Spherical coverage grid, Meas=Link angle).
For the UEs that support multiple FR2 bands, the minimum requirement for EIS
spherical coverage in Table 8.1.2-2 shall be increased per band, respectively,
by the EIS spherical coverage relaxation parameter ∆MB~S,n~ as specified in
clause 8.1.1. The requirement for the UE which supports a single FR2 band is
specified in Table 8.1.2-2. The requirement for the UE which supports multiple
FR2 bands is specified in both Table 8.1.2-2 and Table8.1.1-4.
Table 8.1.2-2: EIS spherical coverage for power class 1, 2, 3 and 4
+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+---------+---------+ | Operating | Power | EIS at | | | | | band | Class | 50^th^ | | | | | | | %-tile | | | | | | | CCDF | | | | | | | (dBm) / | | | | | | | Channel | | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | +===========+===========+===========+=========+=========+=========+ | | | 50 MHz | 100 MHz | 200 MHz | 400 MHz | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+---------+---------+ | n262 | PC1 | -84.3 | -81.3 | -78.3 | -75.3 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+---------+---------+ | | PC2 | -74.9 | -71.9 | -68.9 | -65.9 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+---------+---------+ | | PC3 | -69.7 | -66.7 | -63.7 | -60.7 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+---------+---------+ | | PC4 | -78.9 | -75.9 | -72.9 | -69.9 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | ansmitter | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | set to | | | | | | | P~UMAX~ | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in clause | | | | | | | 6.2.4 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | The EIS | | | | | | | spherical | | | | | | | coverage | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirements | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | verified | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | under | | | | | | | normal | | | | | | | thermal | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | onditions | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | E.2.1. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+---------+---------+
The requirement shall be met for an uplink transmission using QPSK DFT-s-OFDM
waveforms and for uplink transmission bandwidth less than or equal to that
specified in Table 8.1.2-2.
Unless given by Table 7.3.2.1-3 in TS 38.101-2, the minimum requirements for
reference sensitivity shall be verified with the network signalling value
NS_200 (Table 6.2.3.1-1 in TS 38.101-2) configured.
Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) is a measure of a receiver\'s ability to
receive a NR signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of an
adjacent channel signal at a given frequency offset from the centre frequency
of the assigned channel. ACS is the ratio of the receive filter attenuation on
the assigned channel frequency to the receive filter attenuation on the
adjacent channel(s).
The requirement applies at the RIB when the AoA of the incident wave of the
wanted signal and the interfering signal are both from the direction where
peak gain is achieved.
The wanted and interfering signals apply to all supported polarizations, under
the assumption of polarization match.
The UE shall fulfil the minimum requirement specified in Table 8.1.2-3 for all
values of an adjacent channel interferer up to --25 dBm. However, it is not
possible to directly measure the ACS, instead the lower and upper range of
test parameters are chosen in Table 8.1.2-4 and Table 8.1.2-5 where the
throughput shall be ≥ 95 % of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channels as specified in Annexes A.2.3.2 and A.3.3.2, with one
sided dynamic OCNG Pattern OP.1 TDD for the DL-signal as described in Annex
A.5.2.1. The requirement is verified with the test metric of EIS (Link=RX beam
peak direction, Meas=Link angle).
Table 8.1.2-3: Adjacent channel selectivity
* * *
Operating band Units Adjacent channel selectivity / Channel bandwidth
* * *
                           50\                                                100\   200\   400\
                           MHz                                                MHz    MHz    MHz
n262 dB 22 22 22 22
* * *
Table 8.1.2-4: Adjacent channel selectivity test parameters, Case 1
+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Rx | Units | Channel | | | | | P | | b | | | | | arameter | | andwidth | | | | +==========+=======+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | | | 50 MHz | 100 MHz | 200 MHz | 400 MHz | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Power in | dBm | REFSENS | | | | | Tran | | + 14 dB | | | | | smission | | | | | | | B | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | Confi | | | | | | | guration | | | | | | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **P~Int | dBm | REFSENS\ | REFSENS | REFSENS\ | REFSENS\ | | erferer~ | | + 34.5 | +34.5 dB | +34.5 dB | +34.5 dB | | for band | | dB | | | | | n262** | | | | | | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **BW | MHz | 50 | 100 | 200 | 400 | | ~Interfe | | | | | | | rer\ ~** | | | | | | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **F~Int | MHz | 50 | 100 | 200 | 400 | | erferer~ | | | | | | | (o | | / | / | / | / | | ffset)** | | | | | | | | | -50 | -100 | -200 | -400 | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3 | NOTE 3 | NOTE 3 | NOTE 3 | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terferer | | | | | | | consists | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | eference | | | | | | | mea | | | | | | | surement | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | pecified | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | A.3.2 | | | | | | | with one | | | | | | | sided | | | | | | | dynamic | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | Pattern | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | escribed | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | A.3.2 | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | set-up | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ccording | | | | | | | to Annex | | | | | | | C. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | REFSENS | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | level is | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | pecified | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | Clause | | | | | | | 7.3.2, | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ifferent | | | | | | | UE power | | | | | | | classes. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | absolute | | | | | | | value of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terferer | | | | | | | offset | | | | | | | F~Int | | | | | | | erferer~ | | | | | | | (offset) | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | further | | | | | | | adjusted | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | (CEI | | | | | | | L(\|F~In | | | | | | | terferer | | | | | | | ~\|/SCS) | | | | | | | + | | | | | | | 0 | | | | | | | .5)*SCS | | | | | | | MHz with | | | | | | | SCS the | | | | | | | sub | | | | | | | -carrier | | | | | | | spacing | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | in MHz. | | | | | | | Wanted | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terferer | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | have | | | | | | | same | | | | | | | SCS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | nsmitter | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | set to 4 | | | | | | | dB below | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | P~U | | | | | | | MAX,f,c~ | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | clause | | | | | | | 6.2.4, | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | guration | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | pecified | | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | | 7. | | | | | | | 3.2.1-2. | | | | | | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table 8.1.2-5: Adjacent channel selectivity test parameters, Case 2
+-------------+-------+-------------+---------+---------+---------+ | Rx | Units | Channel | | | | | Parameter | | bandwidth | | | | +=============+=======+=============+=========+=========+=========+ | | | 50 MHz | 100 MHz | 200 MHz | 400 MHz | +-------------+-------+-------------+---------+---------+---------+ | Power in | dBm | -45.5 | -45.5 | -45.5 | -45.5 | | T | | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | | for band | | | | | | | n262 | | | | | | +-------------+-------+-------------+---------+---------+---------+ | **P~In | dBm | -25 | | | | | terferer~** | | | | | | +-------------+-------+-------------+---------+---------+---------+ | **BW~Inte | MHz | 50 | 100 | 200 | 400 | | rferer\ ~** | | | | | | +-------------+-------+-------------+---------+---------+---------+ | **F~ | MHz | 50 | 100 | 200 | 400 | | Interferer~ | | | | | | | (offset)** | | / | / | / | / | | | | | | | | | | | -50 | -100 | -200 | -400 | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2 | NOTE 2 | NOTE 2 | NOTE 2 | +-------------+-------+-------------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | | consists of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | specified | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | 3.2 with | | | | | | | one sided | | | | | | | dynamic | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | Pattern TDD | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | described | | | | | | | in Annex A | | | | | | | and set-up | | | | | | | according | | | | | | | to Annex C. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | | absolute | | | | | | | value of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | | offset | | | | | | | F~ | | | | | | | Interferer~ | | | | | | | (offset) | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | further | | | | | | | adjusted to | | | | | | | (CEIL( | | | | | | | \|F~Interfe | | | | | | | rer~\|/SCS) | | | | | | | + 0.5)*SCS | | | | | | | MHz with | | | | | | | SCS the | | | | | | | sub-carrier | | | | | | | spacing of | | | | | | | the wanted | | | | | | | signal in | | | | | | | MHz. Wanted | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | | signal have | | | | | | | same SCS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | | | transmitter | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | set to 4 dB | | | | | | | below the | | | | | | | P~UMAX,f,c~ | | | | | | | as defined | | | | | | | in clause | | | | | | | 6.2.4, with | | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | | specified | | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | | 7.3.2.1-2. | | | | | | +-------------+-------+-------------+---------+---------+---------+
In-band blocking is a measure of a receiver\'s ability to receive a NR signal
at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of an interferer at a given
frequency offset from the centre frequency of the assigned channel.
The throughput shall be ≥ 95 % of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channels as specified in Annexes A.2.3.2 and A.3.3.2 (with one
sided dynamic OCNG Pattern OP.1 TDD for the DL-signal as described in Annex
A.5.2.1). The requirement is verified with the test metric of EIS (Link=RX
beam peak direction, Meas=Link angle).
Table 8.1.2-6: In band blocking requirements
+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Rx | Units | Channel | | | | | p | | b | | | | | arameter | | andwidth | | | | +==========+=======+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | | | 50 MHz | 100 MHz | 200 MHz | 400 MHz | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Power in | dBm | REFSENS | | | | | Tran | | + 14 dB | | | | | smission | | | | | | | B | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | Confi | | | | | | | guration | | | | | | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ** | MHz | 50 | 100 | 200 | 400 | | BW~Inter | | | | | | | ferer~**| | | | | | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | * | dBm | REFSENS | REFSENS | REFSENS | REFSENS | | *P~Inter | | + 34.5 | + 34.5 | + 34.5 | + 34.5 | | ferer~** | | dB | dB | dB | dB | | | | | | | | | **for | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | n262** | | | | | | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **F~Io | MHz | ≤ -100 & | ≤ -200 & | ≤ -400 & | ≤ -800 & | | ffset~** | | ≥ 100 | ≥ 200 | ≥ 400 | ≥ 800 | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5 | NOTE 5 | NOTE 5 | NOTE 5 | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | * | MHz | F~ | F~ | F~ | F~ | | _F~Inter | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | ferer~_ * | | + 25 | + 50 | + 100 | + 200 | | | | | | | | | | | to\ | to\ | to\ | to\ | | | | F~D | F~D | F~D | F~D | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | L_high~ | L_high~ | | | | - 25 | - 50 | - 100 | - 200 | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terferer | | | | | | | consists | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | eference | | | | | | | mea | | | | | | | surement | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | pecified | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | A.3.3.2 | | | | | | | with one | | | | | | | sided | | | | | | | dynamic | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | Pattern | | | | | | | OP.1. | | | | | | | TDD as | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | escribed | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | A.5.2.1 | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | set-up | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ccording | | | | | | | to Annex | | | | | | | C. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE2: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | REFSENS | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | level is | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | pecified | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | Clause | | | | | | | 7.3.2, | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ccording | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ifferent | | | | | | | UE power | | | | | | | classes. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | consists | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | eference | | | | | | | mea | | | | | | | surement | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | pecified | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | A.3.3.2 | | | | | | | with one | | | | | | | sided | | | | | | | dynamic | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | pattern | | | | | | | OP.1 TDD | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | escribed | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | A.5.2.1 | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | set-up | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ccording | | | | | | | to Annex | | | | | | | C. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | | F~ | | | | | | | Ioffset~ | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | paration | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | center | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | center | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | In | | | | | | | terferer | | | | | | | signal. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | absolute | | | | | | | value of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terferer | | | | | | | offset | | | | | | | F~ | | | | | | | Ioffset~ | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | further | | | | | | | adjusted | | | | | | | (CEI | | | | | | | L(\|F~In | | | | | | | terferer | | | | | | | ~\|/SCS) | | | | | | | + | | | | | | | 0 | | | | | | | .5)*SCS | | | | | | | MHz with | | | | | | | SCS the | | | | | | | sub | | | | | | | -carrier | | | | | | | spacing | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | in MHz. | | | | | | | Wanted | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terferer | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | have | | | | | | | same | | | | | | | SCS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: | | | | | | | F~Int | | | | | | | erferer~ | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | values | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | unwanted | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | odulated | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | erfering | | | | | | | signals | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terferer | | | | | | | center | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | uencies. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 7: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | nsmitter | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | set to 4 | | | | | | | dB below | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | P~U | | | | | | | MAX,f,c~ | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | clause | | | | | | | 6.2.4, | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | guration | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | pecified | | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | | 7. | | | | | | | 3.2.1-2. | | | | | | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
## 8.2 BS specific
### 8.2.1 Band agnostic requirements
The BS RF requirements summarized in Table 8.2.1-2 is band agnostic RF
requirements for FR2 which are applicable for band n262 as well.
Table 8.2.1-2: Summary on band agnostic of BS RF requirements for FR2
BS TX side capture in TS 38.104 BS RX side capture in TS 38.104
* * *
9.2 Radiated transmit power 10.3 OTA reference sensitivity level 9.3 OTA Base
station output power 10.5 OTA In-band selectivity and blocking 9.4 OTA Output
power dynamics  
9.5 OTA Transmit ON/OFF power 10.9 OTA In-channel selectivity 9.6 OTA
Transmitted signal quality  
9.7.2 OTA Occupied bandwidth  
9.7.5 OTA Transmitter spurious emissions (cat A)
### 8.2.2 Transmitter characteristics
#### 8.2.2.1 Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio (ACLR)
The BS OTA ACLR limit for spectrum range 37 -- 52.6 GHz has been defined in TS
38.104. This is also applicable for Band n262.
#### 8.2.2.2 OTA operating band unwanted emissions
The BS OTA operating band unwanted emission for spectrum range 37 -- 52.6 GHz
has been specified in TS 38.104, section 9.7. Those limits are applicable for
Band n262.
#### 8.2.2.3 Step frequencies for Tx spurious emission
The 47.2-48.2 GHz frequency range has not yet been regulated in Region where
Category B limits are applicable. The Category B Tx spurious limits doesn't
have to updated (at least for the time being).
### 8.2.3 Receiver characteristics
#### 8.2.3.1 Step frequencies for Rx spurious emission
The band n262 shall be added to Table 8.2.3.1-1 in TS 38.104 as proposed
below.
Table 8.2.3.1-1: Step frequencies for defining the radiated Rx spurious
emission limits for _BS type 2-O_
* * *
Operating band F~step,1~\ F~step,2~\ F~step,3~\ F~step,4~\ F~step,5~\
F~step,6~\ (GHz) (GHz) (GHz) (GHz) (GHz) (GHz)
* * *
n257 18 23.5 25 31 32.5 41.5
n258 18 21 22.75 29 30.75 40.5
n259 23,5 35,5 38 45 47,5 59,5
n260 25 34 35.5 41.5 43 52
n261 18 25.5 26.0 29.85 30.35 38.35
n262 37.2 45.2 45.7 49.7 50.2 58.2
* * *
### 8.2.4 BS conformance aspects
On top of generic FR2 BS test requirements, the following 38.141-2 transmitter
test requirements changes are expected due to introduction of n262:
1\. Define maximum OTA test system uncertainty for FR2 OTA transmitter tests
to be applicable up to 48.2GHz
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Subclause | Maximum OTA Test System | | | uncertainty | +==================================+==================================+ | 6.2 Radiated transmit power | Normal condition: | | | | | | ±1.7 dB (24.25 -- 29.5 GHz) | | | | | | ±2.0 dB (37 -- 43.5 GHz) | | | | | | ±2.2 dB (43.5GHz \< f ≤ 48.2 | | | GHz) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Extreme condition: | | | | | | ±3.1 dB (24.25 -- 29.5 GHz) | | | | | | ±3.3 dB (37 -- 43.5 GHz) | | | | | | ±3.5 dB (43.5 GHz \< f ≤48.2 | | | GHz) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 6.3 OTA base station output | ±2.1 dB (24.25 -- 29.5 GHz) | | power | | | | ±2.4 dB (37 -- 43.5 GHz) | | | | | | ±2.6 dB (43.5 GHz \< f ≤48.2 | | | GHz) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 6.4.2 OTA RE power control | N/A | | dynamic range | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 6.4.3 OTA total power dynamic | ±0.4 dB | | range | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 6.5.1 OTA transmitter OFF power | ±2.9 dB (24.25 -- 29.5 GHz) | | | | | | ±3.3 dB (37 -- 43.5 GHz) | | | | | | ±3.6 dB (43.5 GHz \< f ≤48.2 | | | GHz) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 6.5.2 OTA transmitter transient | N/A | | period | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 6.6.2 OTA frequency error | ±12 Hz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 6.6.3 OTA modulation quality | 1% | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 6.6.4 OTA time alignment error | ±25 ns | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 6.7.2 OTA occupied bandwidth | 600 kHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 6.7.3 OTA ACLR | Relative ACLR: | | | | | | ±2.3 dB (24.25 -- 29.5 GHz) | | | | | | ±2.6 dB (37 -- 43.5 GHz) | | | | | | ±2.8 dB (43.5 GHz \< f ≤48.2 | | | GHz) | | | | | | Absolute ACLR: | | | | | | ±2.7 dB (24.25 -- 29.5 GHz) | | | | | | ±2.7 dB (37 -- 43.5 GHz) | | | | | | ±2.9 dB (43.5 GHz \< f ≤48.2 | | | GHz) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 6.7.4 OTA operating band | ±2.7 dB (24.25 -- 29.5 GHz) | | unwanted emissions | | | | ±2.7 dB (37 -- 43.5 GHz) | | | | | | ±2.9 dB (43.5 GHz \< f ≤48.2 | | | GHz) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 6.7.5.2 OTA transmitter spurious | ±2.3 dB, 30 MHz ≤ f ≤ 6 GHz | | emissions, mandatory | | | requirements | ±2.7 dB, 6 GHz \< f ≤ 40 GHz | | | | | | ±5.0 dB, 40 GHz \< f ≤ 60 GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 6.7.5.4 OTA transmitter spurious | ±2.3 dB, 30 MHz ≤ f ≤ 6 GHz | | emissions, additional | | | requirements | ±2.7 dB, 6 GHz \< f ≤ 40 GHz | | | | | | ±5.0 dB, 40 GHz \< f ≤ 60 GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE: Test system uncertainty | | | values are applicable for normal | | | condition unless otherwise | | | stated. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
On top of generic FR2 BS test requirements, the following 38.141-2 receiver
test requirements changes are expected due to introduction of n262:
1\. Introduction of step frequencies for defining the radiated Rx spurious
emission limits for n262
* * *
Operating band F~step,1~\ F~step,2~\ F~step,3~\ F~step,4~\ F~step,5~\
F~step,6~\ (GHz) (GHz) (GHz) (GHz) (GHz) (GHz)
* * *
n257 18 23.5 25 31 32.5 41.5
n258 18 21 22.75 29 30.75 40.5
n259 23.5 35.5 38 45 47.5 59.5
n260 25 34 35.5 41.5 43 52
n261 18 25.5 26.0 29.85 30.35 38.35
n262 37.2 45.2 45.7 49.7 50.2 58.2
* * *
Define maximum OTA test system uncertainty for FR2 OTA receiver tests to be
applicable up to 48.2GHz
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Subclause | Maximum OTA Test System | | | uncertainty | +==================================+==================================+ | 7.3 OTA reference sensitivity | ±2.4 dB, 24.25 GHz \< f ≤ 29.5 | | level | GHz | | | | | | ±2.4 dB, 37 GHz \< f ≤ 43.5 GHz | | | | | | +3.5 dB, 43.5 GHz \< f ≤ 48.2 | | | GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 7.5.1 OTA adjacent channel | ±3.4 dB, 24.25 GHz \< f ≤ 29.5 | | selectivity | GHz | | | | | | ±3.4 dB, 37 GHz \< f ≤ 43.5 GHz | | | | | | +5.1 dB, 43.5 GHz \< f ≤ 48.2 | | | GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 7.5.2 In-band blocking (General) | ±3.4 dB, 24.25 GHz \< f ≤ 29.5 | | | GHz | | | | | | ±3.4 dB, 37 GHz \< f ≤ 43.5 GHz | | | | | | +5.1 dB, 43.5 GHz \< f ≤ 48.2 | | | GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 7.6 OTA out-of-band blocking | ±3.6 dB, 24.25 GHz \< f ≤ 29.5 | | | GHz | | | | | | ±3.6 dB, 37 GHz \< f ≤ 43.5 GHz | | | | | | +4.5 dB, 43.5 GHz \< f ≤ 48.2 | | | GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 7.7 OTA receiver spurious | ±2.5 dB, 30 MHz ≤ f ≤ 6 GHz | | emissions | | | | ±2.7 dB, 6 GHz \< f ≤ 40 GHz | | | | | | ±5.0 dB, 40 GHz \< f ≤ 60 GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 7.8 OTA receiver intermodulation | ±3.9 dB, 24.25 GHz \< f ≤ 29.5 | | | GHz | | | | | | ±3.9 dB, 37 GHz \< f ≤ 43.5 GHz | | | | | | +5.4 dB, 43.5 GHz \< f ≤ 48.2 | | | GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 7.9 OTA in-channel selectivity | ±3.4 dB, 24.25 GHz \< f ≤ 29.5 | | | GHz | | | | | | ±3.4 dB, 37 GHz \< f ≤ 43.5 GHz | | | | | | +5.1 dB, 43.5 GHz \< f ≤ 48.2 | | | GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE1: Test system uncertainty | | | values are applicable for normal | | | condition unless otherwise | | | stated. | | | | | | NOTE 2: The maximum OTA Test | | | System uncertainty in the | | | frequency range 43.5 GHz \< f ≤ | | | 48.2 GHz is a composite of | | | signal generator and external RF | | | front-end with mixer. Future | | | evaluation and improvement of | | | uncertainty values will be | | | performed once the signal | | | generator internal RF supports | | | higher frequency so external | | | mixer is not used. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
# 9 RRM
## 9.1 Frequency bands grouping
## 9.2 Conditions for RRM requirements applicability for operating bands
### 9.2.1 Minimum SSB_RP values for Rx Beam Peak angle of arrival
### 9.2.2 Minimum SSB_RP values for angle of arrival within Spherical coverage
# 10 Performance requirements
## 10.1 Base station requirements
The BS demodulation requirements in 38.104 are defined for the whole of FR2
(i.e. up to 52.6GHz) and thus can be re-used for n262. The SNR is not expected
to differ for any of the requirements.
Conformance testing for the base station requirements is limited by the OTA
link budget in the test chamber and available output power of test equipment.
For the existing FR2 bands, the maximum testable SNR is limited to 20dB due to
link budget considerations.
For n262, the pathloss will differ to some degree, and also the availability
of power amplifiers for the test equipment may differ. The link budget has
been checked to determine whether also for n262 the 20dB assumption is valid.
The test set-up in figure 10.1-1 is assumed. After the output of the test
equipment, a pre-amplifier and PA are included to increase the power available
in the test chamber.
{width="6.53125in" height="1.5625in"}
Figure 10.1-1 BS test setup
Table 10.1-1 captures assumptions on the losses and amplifier gains for the
test setup.
Table 10.1-1 Assumptions for test set-up losses/gains
+-------------------------+-------+-------+-------------------------+ | Frequency (GHz) | 47 | 38 | Note | +=========================+=======+=======+=========================+ | $\mathbf{L}_{\m | 3 | 3 | Coupler loss | | athbf{\text{coupler}}}$ | | | | | (dB) | | | | +-------------------------+-------+-------+-------------------------+ | $$\m | 37 | 37 | Gain of power amplifier | | athbf{G}_{\mathbf{\text | | | | | {PA}}}\mathbf{(}\mathbf | | | | | {\text{dB}}\mathbf{)}$$ | | | | +-------------------------+-------+-------+-------------------------+ | $$ | 2 | 2 | 2dB attenuator loss | | \mathbf{L}_{\mathbf{2}\ | | | | | mathbf{\text{dB}}\mathb | | | | | f{_}\mathbf{\text{atte | | | | | n}}}\mathbf{\ (}\mathbf | | | | | {\text{dB}}\mathbf{)}$$ | | | | +-------------------------+-------+-------+-------------------------+ | $$\ma | 25 | 25 | Gain of pre-amplifier | | thbf{G}_{\mathbf{\text{ | | | | | Pre}}}\mathbf{(}\mathbf | | | | | {\text{dB}}\mathbf{)}$$ | | | | +-------------------------+-------+-------+-------------------------+ | $\mathbf{L}_{ | 2.5 | 2.5 | 1m cable loss | | \mathbf{\text{cable}}\m | | | | | athbf{_ 1}\mathbf{m}}$ | | | | | (dB) | | | | +-------------------------+-------+-------+-------------------------+ | $$\mathbf{L}_{\m | 2 | 2 | Variable attenuator | | athbf{\text{var}}\mathb | | | loss | | f{_}\mathbf{\text{atte | | | | | n}}}\mathbf{\ (}\mathbf | | | | | {\text{dB}}\mathbf{)}$$ | | | | +-------------------------+-------+-------+-------------------------+ | $\mathbf{L}_{\ma | 4 | 4 | Combiner loss | | thbf{\text{combiner}}}$ | | | | | (dB) | | | | +-------------------------+-------+-------+-------------------------+ | $\mathbf{L}_{ | 11 | 10 | 5m cable loss | | \mathbf{\text{cable}}\m | | | | | athbf{_ 5}\mathbf{m}}$ | | | | | (dB) | | | | +-------------------------+-------+-------+-------------------------+ | $$\mathbf | -42.5 | -41.5 | $$L_{\text{total}} = | | {L}_{\mathbf{\text{tota | | | L_{\text{cabl}e_{1m}} + | | l}}}\mathbf{\ (}\mathbf | | | L_{\text{cabl}e_{5m}} | | {\text{dB}}\mathbf{)}$$ | | | + L_{\text{combiner}}$$ | | | | | | | | | | $$+ L_ | | | | | {\text{var}_\text{atte | | | | | n}} + L_{2\text{dB}_\t | | | | | ext{atten}} - G_{\text{ | | | | | PA}} - G_{\text{Pre}}$$ | +-------------------------+-------+-------+-------------------------+
At the RIB (i.e. BS antenna array), if a reference sensitivity of -100dBm in
50MHz is assumed then according to 38.141-2, the AWGN level at the RIB should
be -79dBm for a 200MHz channel. For the wanted signal, a margin of 10dB for
the fading channel is assumed and an SNR of 20dB. Thus, the wanted signal
power should be -79dBm AWGN + 20dB SNR + 10dB margin for fading channel =
-49dBm.
It is worth to note that the in-band blocking level for a BS with a
sensitivity of -100dBm in 50MHz is -70dBm. Thus, the in-channel power here is
considerably larger than the in-band blocking level. This reflects the reduced
risk of blocking in FR2 due to beamforming. The -49dBm used in this estimate
is an absolute worst case with high SNR, high channel margin in order to gain
an understanding whether the link budget in the chamber can work in the worst
case scenario.
To estimate the output power requirement for the PA, the pathloss within the
test chamber should be considered. Two types of test chamber have been
studied; Indoor Anechoic Chamber (IAC) and Compact Antenna Test Range (CATR).
For the IAC, the test antenna must be placed in the far-field of the BS array.
The far field distance is related to the dimensions of the BS. Two BS
dimensions have been considered; 5 times and 10 times the wavelength.
Combining the chamber pathloss with the test setup L~total~ and the power
level at the RIB enables the needed output power levels at the PA output and
signal generator to be calculated.
Table 10.1-2: Power requirements for BS demodulation testing in an IAC
+----------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----------------+ | Carrier | 47 | 38 | Note | | | | Frequency | | | | | | | (GHz) | | | | | | +================+=======+=======+=======+=======+================+ | Dimension (m) | 0.15 | 0.25 | 0.15 | 0.25 | 5 times of | | | | | | | wave length | | | | | | | and 10 times | | | | | | | of wave length | +----------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----------------+ | $$\mathbf | 7 | 19.6 | 5.7 | 15.8 | Far field | | {d}_{\mathbf{\ | | | | | distance | | text{test}}}\m | | | | | | | athbf{\ (m)}$$ | | | | | | +----------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----------------+ | $$\mathb | 82.9 | 91.8 | 79.2 | 88.1 | Free space | | f{L}_{\mathbf{ | | | | | loss | | \text{FS}}}\ma | | | | | | | thbf{\ (dB)}$$ | | | | | | +----------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----------------+ | $$\mathbf | 13.9 | 22.8 | 10.2 | 19.1 | $$P | | {P}_{\mathbf{P | | | | |_{RIB_ demod\ | | A_ out}}\math | | | | | } = - 49dBm$$ | | bf{\ }\left( \ | | | | | | | mathbf{\text{d | | | | | $$ | | Bm}} \right)$$ | | | | | P_{PA_ out_ | | | | | | | max} = 22dBm$$ | | $$\ma | | | | | | | thbf{= \ }\mat | | | | | $$L_{\text{cou | | hbf{P}_{\mathb | | | | | pler}} = 3dB$$ | | f{RIB_ demod\ | | | | | | | }}\mathbf{+ \ | | | | | | | }\mathbf{L}_{ | | | | | | | \mathbf{\text{ | | | | | | | FS}}}\mathbf{- | | | | | | | }\mathbf{G}_{\ | | | | | | | mathbf{test_ | | | | | | | ant}}\mathbf{\ | | | | | | | + \ }\mathbf | | | | | | | {L}_{\mathbf{\ | | | | | | | text{coupler}} | | | | | | | }\mathbf{\ }$$ | | | | | | +----------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----------------+ | $$\mathb | -28.6 | -19.7 | -31.3 | -22.4 | Estimated | | f{P}_{\mathbf{ | | | | | wanted signal | | SG_ est}}\mat | | | | | level at SG | | hbf{\ (dBm)}$$ | | | | | | | | | | | | $ | | $$\m | | | | | $L_{\text{tota | | athbf{=}\mathb | | | | | l}} = \left{ | | f{P}_{\mathbf{ | | | | | \begin{matrix} | | PA_ out}}\mat | | | | | - 41. | | hbf{+}\mathbf{ | | | | | 5dB & 38GHz \ | | L}_{\mathbf{\t | | | | | & \ | | ext{total}}}$$ | | | | | - 42. | | | | | | | 5dB & 47GHz \ | | | | | | | \end{matri | | | | | | | x} \right.\ $$ | +----------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----------------+
For the CATR, the coupling loss between the test antenna and BS can be
calculated as:
$$L_{\text{coupling}_\text{catr}} = 10\log\left(
\frac{4\pi*\text{Aera}_{\text{catr}}}{\lambda^{2}} \right) = 10\log\left(
\frac{80\pi}{\lambda^{2}} \right)$$
Assuming the CATR area to be 20m^2^, the CATR power requirements are as in
table 10.1-3.
Table 10.1-3: Power requirements for BS demodulation testing in an CATR
+-------------------------+-------+-------+-------------------------+ | Carrier frequency (GHz) | 47 | 38 | Note | +=========================+=======+=======+=========================+ | $ | 67.9 | 66.1 | coupling loss | | \mathbf{L}_{\mathbf{\te | | | | | xt{coupling}}\mathbf{_ | | | | | }\mathbf{\text{catr}}}$ | | | | | (dB) | | | | +-------------------------+-------+-------+-------------------------+ | $$\mathbf{P}_{\mat | 21.9 | 20.1 | $$P_{RIB | | hbf{\text{PA}}\mathbf{\ | | | _ demod\ } = - 49dBm$$ | | _}\mathbf{\text{out}}}\ | | | | | mathbf{\ }\left( \mathb | | | $$P_{PA | | f{\text{dBm}} \right)$$ | | | _ out_ max} = 22dBm$$ | | | | | | | $$\mat | | | $$L_{ | | hbf{= \ }\mathbf{P}_{\m | | | \text{coupler}} = 3dB$$ | | athbf{\text{RIB}}\mathb | | | | | f{_}\mathbf{\text{demo | | | | | d}}\mathbf{\ }}\mathbf{ | | | | | + \ }\mathbf{L}_{\mathb | | | | | f{\text{coupling}}\math | | | | | bf{_}\mathbf{\text{cat | | | | | r}}}\mathbf{\ + \ }\ma | | | | | thbf{L}_{\mathbf{\text{ | | | | | coupler}}}\mathbf{\ }$$ | | | | +-------------------------+-------+-------+-------------------------+ | $$\mathbf{P}_{ | -20.6 | -21.4 | $$L_{\text{total}} = | | \mathbf{\text{SG}}\math | | | \left{ \begin{matrix} | | bf{_}\mathbf{\text{est | | | - 41.5dB & 38GHz \ | | }}}\mathbf{\ (}\mathbf{ | | | & \ | | \text{dBm}}\mathbf{)}$$ | | | - 42.5dB & 47GHz \ | | | | | \ | | $$\m | | | end{matrix} \right.\ $$ | | athbf{=}\mathbf{P}_{\ma | | | | | thbf{\text{PA}}\mathbf{ | | | | | _}\mathbf{\text{out}}} | | | | | \mathbf{+}\mathbf{L}_{\ | | | | | mathbf{\text{total}}}$$ | | | | +-------------------------+-------+-------+-------------------------+
A signal generator can be estimated to provide an output power of up to -10dBm
with the required linearity. For both the CATR and IAC, the output power from
the signal generator will not be a limiting factor.
Expectations on PA output power in some other frequency ranges are indicated
in table 10.1-4.
Table 10.1-4: PA output power expectations
Frequency (GHz) 2\~20 18\~26.5 27\~31 30\~40
* * *
$\mathbf{G}_{\mathbf{\text{PA}}}$ (dB) 43 40 43 37 OIP3 (dBm) 42 40 42 37
$\mathbf{\text{NF}}_{\mathbf{\text{PA}}}$ (dB) 10 10 10 10
$\mathbf{P}_{\mathbf{PA_ out_ max}}$(dBm) 27 25 27 22 $\mathbf{P}_{\mathbf{PA_
in_ max}}$ (dBm) -16 -15 -16 -15
If PAs are available for 47GHz with the same output power as those for
30-40GHz are available, then the link budget is only just achievable. However,
the estimate of the needed input power to the RIB has been based on a
sensitivity level of -100 dBm/50MHz, large fading channel variation, 200MHz
bandwidth and a 20dB SNR (the largest SNR for 200MHz is actually around 15dB).
which are all rather pessimistic and so in most situations a margin is likely
to be available.
Based on the link budget assessment, all of the conformance tests for BS
demodulation requirements are retained for n262.
## 10.2 UE requirements
The UE performance requirements in 38.101-4 have prior to the introduction of
n262 been specified for frequencies of up to 40GHz. To check whether the
requirements can also be applicable to band n262, it was agreed to perform
simulations for three of the most stringent test cases: TS38.101-1 Table
7.2.2.2.1-4 Test 2-6, Table 7.2.2.2.1-3 Test 1-4, Table 7.2.2.2.1-5 Test 3-1.
It is assumed that if no significant difference is observable with this test
cases between 40GHz and 47GHz then no difference will occur for all other
requirements. Phase noise model from TR 38.803 Example 2 was considered as a
baseline assumption for evaluation. Same time other phase noise models were
not precluded.
Figures 10.2-1 to 10.2-6 and Tables 10.2-1 and 10.2-2 summarize all simulation
results submitted by different companies.
* * *
{width="3.150732720909886in" height="2.3622047244094486in"}
{width="3.150732720909886in" height="2.3622047244094486in"}
* * *
Figure 10.2-1 Intel, R4-2109218
* * *
{width="3.1462314085739282in" height="2.3622047244094486in"}
* * *
Figure 10.2-2 Intel, R4-2109218
* * *
{width="3.3333333333333335in" height="2.5in"} {width="3.3270833333333334in"
height="2.49375in"}
* * *
Figure 10.2-3 Ericsson, R4-2113459. Phase noise model: Example 2 in TR38.803.
* * *
{width="3.3201388888888888in" height="2.4868055555555557in"}
{width="3.3201388888888888in" height="2.4868055555555557in"}
* * *
Figure 10.2-4 Ericsson, R4-2113459. Phase noise model: Example 2 in in
R4-2010176 Proposal 1
* * *
{width="3.1514851268591424in" height="2.3622047244094486in"}
{width="3.1514851268591424in" height="2.3622047244094486in"}
* * *
Figure 10.2-5 Huawei, HiSilicon, R4-2113796
* * *
{width="3.1514851268591424in" height="2.3622047244094486in"}
* * *
**Figure 10.2-6 Huawei, HiSilicon,** R4-2113796
Table 10.2-1: Qualcomm, R4-2112250.
* * *
Test Number Table Test Carrier Frequency Alignment SNR\ (\@70% Peak
Throughput)
* * *
Test 3-1 7.2.2.2.1-3 _16QAM Rank 1 with Enhanced Receiver Type 1_ 39GHz 16.05
dB
                              *16QAM Rank 1 with Enhanced Receiver Type 1*   48GHz               16.35dB
* * *
Table 10.2-2: Qualcomm, R4-2112250.
* * *
Test Number Table Test Carrier Frequency Alignment SNR\ (\@70% Peak
Throughput)
* * *
Test 2-6 7.2.2.2.1-4 _64QAM (MCS 17), Rank 2_ 39GHz 15.55 dB
                              *64QAM (MCS 17), Rank 2*   48GHz               15.85 dB
* * *
Some companies observed small performance difference at 70% of the maximum
throughput for test cases Table 7.2.2.2.1-4 Test 2-6 and Table 7.2.2.2.1-5
Test 3-1. Other companies observed about one dB degradation for these tests.
To provide sufficient margin and same time not to relax requirements too much
it was concluded to add additional margin as 0.5 dB for band n262 for these
test cases.
For test case Table 7.2.2.2.1-3 Test 1-4 it was also concluded on necessity of
the additional margin to extend this requirement to band n262. The 1.5 dB
margin was agreed.
Although RAN5 specifies UE conformance testing, absolute Noc levels are
specified in 38.101-4. For n262, the Noc levels are calculated based on the
reference sensitivity as described in section 4.5.3.3 of TS 38.101-2.
###### ##
#