# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for Rel-17 WI Further enhancements
of NR RF requirements for frequency range 2 (FR2).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
...
[x] \ \[ ([up to and
including]{yyyy[-mm]\|V\}[onwards])]: \"\\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
This clause and its three subclauses are mandatory. The contents shall be
shown as \"void\" if the TS/TR does not define any terms, symbols, or
abbreviations.
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
Definition format (Normal)
**\ :** \.
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format (EW)
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Abbreviation format (EW)
\ \
# 4 Inter-band DL CA
## 4.1 Applicability of CBM/IBM for different CA configurations
Following agreements have been reached concerning applicability of CBM/IBM for
different CA configurations.
IBM UE capability is applicable for all CA configurations R4-2016915
On "frequency group" R4-2016915
"frequency group" term shall not be defined in specification
If either CBM or IBM is concluded as infeasible for certain band combinations,
it is reasonable to clearly state in the spec that only the requirements of
feasible BM apply to these band combinations. If both CBM and IBM are
concluded as feasible for certain band combinations, IBM/CBM is up to UE's
capability. R4-2016915
Typical inter-band CA deployment between bands in the same frequency group
cannot be limited to co-located deployments **R4-2007813**
It is agreed that RAN4 will not label CBM or IBM as a default BM method for
any band combination. Used beam management is based on UE capability. This
issue is not discussed anymore in RAN4 R4-2103111
There are no deployment restrictions (Non-co-located/co-located) for network
to configure inter-band DL CA for CBM UEs. R4-2103399
\- UE RF requirements for CBM shall be derived based on co-located deployment
scenario only. R4-2103399
## 4.2 Feasibility study for CA configurations within same frequency group
### 4.2.1 CA configurations within same frequency group using IBM
Following agreements have been made for CA configurations within same
frequency group using IBM.
From R4-2016915
> \- IBM UE capability is applicable for all CA configurations
From R4-2017813
> \- Typical inter-band CA deployment between bands in the same frequency
> group cannot be limited to co-located deployments
>
> -IBM UEs are implementable
>
> -Feasibility to support is left to UE vendor (implementation) choice
From R4-2103111
> -IBM inter-band CA requirements it is agreed that the FR2 inter-band DL CA,
> maximum input level, ACS, and in-band blocking requirement are band
> combination agnostic and shall be reused for any new FR2 inter-band
> combinations.
From R4-2105391
> \- IBM inter-CA requirement framework (Peak EIS, EIS spherical coverage)
> established for n260+n261 shall be applied to any requested CA band pair
> from the same frequency group (parameter values including PSD differences
> and relaxations to be discussed separately) with IBM.
## 4.3 Feasibility study for CA configurations between different frequency
groups based on CBM
Following agreements have been made for CBM UE for CA configurations between
the frequency groups.
From R4-2103399
> \- CBM: (Common Beam Management) A UE that supports inter-band CA with CBM
> selects its DL Rx beam(s) for all CCs in all configured bands based on DL
> measurements made in the only CC configured with the reference signal for
> beam management. In FR2 CA cases, requirements apply when the BM RS is
> provided in a CC with a configured UL BWP
  * Network deployment restriction for CBM
> \- There are no deployment restrictions (Non-co-located/co-located) for
> network to configure inter-band DL CA for CBM UEs.
>
> \- UE RF requirements for CBM shall be derived based on co-located
> deployment scenario only.
From Chairman report RAN4#99 GTW session
> \- RAN4 agrees to define CBM requirements in such manner that both single
> chain and multi chain architectures are possible.
From R4-2114960
> -CBM between different frequency groups is feasible and study phase can be
> completed at least for architecture with multiple RF chains.
>
> -Add a new enumerated value to beam management type in [Rel-17] so that a UE
> can support both IBM and CBM, i.e., ENUMERATED {ibm, cbm, both}.
>
> -FFS on the applicability of requirements for UE supporting both
> capabilities.
>
> -FFS whether to introduce it from early release.
>
> -The capability to indicate whether the UE support CBM under multi-chain
> architecture is not introduced.
>
> -Beam management reference signal (BMRS): The DL signal designated by the
> network for the UE to make measurements on, for the purpose of selecting its
> DL Rx beam(s).
>
> -For core requirements applicability in relation to BMRS location:
>
> -CBM inter-band CA requirements apply per-band with the BMRS configured in
> any one of the participating bands.
>
> -Introduce side condition for core requirement that BMRS can only be placed
> on PCC for the DL CA case with a single uplink.
>
> -FFS whether to set side condition only for the worst case
>
> -For test cases, further discussion on setup for testing to reduce the test
> burden and send LS to RAN5.
>
> -RAN4 agree to introduce REFSENS and EIS spherical coverage requirements
> based on IBM inter-band CA framework.
>
> -FFS on the values for the requirements
>
> -FFS whether there is PSD difference and what is the difference
>
> -FFS the impact of frequency separation
>
> -TP for ACS definition
>
> For inter-band carrier aggregation with one component carrier per operating
> band and the uplink assigned to one NR band, the UE shall meet the
> requirements specified in clause 7.5 for each component carrier while all
> downlink carriers are active.
>
> For UEs that support inter-band CA with IBM or CBM, the requirement is
> defined with the uplink active on the band other than the band whose
> downlink is being tested. For Ues that support inter-band CA with CBM, the
> requirement applies for out-of-gap interferers as well as in-gap interferers
> when the minimum gap condition of sub-clause 7.5A.2 is met.
>
> -TP for IBB definition
>
> For inter-band carrier aggregation with one component carrier per operating
> band and the uplink assigned to one NR band, the UE shall meet the
> requirements specified in clause 7.6.2 for each component carrier while all
> downlink carriers are active.
>
> For UEs that support inter-band CA with IBM, the requirement is defined with
> the uplink active on the band other than the band whose downlink is being
> tested.
>
> For UEs that support inter-band CA with CBM, the requirement is defined with
> the uplink active on the band other than the band whose downlink is being
> tested, and the requirement applies for out-of-gap blockers as well as in-
> gap blockers when the minimum gap condition of sub-clause 7.6A.2.2 is met.
From R4-2119959
> -UE with both CBM and IBM capabilities needs to meet each of requirements
> separately.
>
> -RAN4 shall send out LS to ask RAN2 to define the capability for "both" and
> inquire whether "both" can be release independent from Rel-16.
>
> -If UE supports 'both', UE can be configured either for IBM or CBM by the
> network.
>
> -The different BMRS types, i.e., configuration of CSI-RS or SSB, have no
> impact on DL requirements.
>
> -Same combinations between frequency groups as for IBM in current
> specification:
>
> -n257+n259
>
> -n258+n260
>
> -n260+n261
>
> -FFS to include n258+n261 and come back next meeting.
>
> -RAN4 to specify delta_RIBs for each agreed band combination.
## 4.4 UE requirements for CA configurations CA_n258A-n260A and CA_n257A-n259A
based on IBM
### 4.4.1 Operating bands for CA
NR inter-band carrier aggregation is designed to operate in the operating
bands defined in Table 4.4.1-1, where all operating bands are within FR2.
Table 4.4.1-1: Inter-band CA operating bands in FR2
+---------------+---------------+ | NR CA Band | NR Band | | | | | | (Table 5.2-1) | +===============+===============+ | CA_n257-n259 | n257, n259 | +---------------+---------------+ | CA_n258-n260 | n258, n260 | +---------------+---------------+
### 4.4.2 Configurations for inter-band CA
Table 4.4.2-1: NR CA configurations for inter-band CA
* * *
NR CA configuration Uplink CA configuration NR Band Channel bandwidth (MHz)
(NOTE 1) Bandwidth combination set  
50 100 200 400  
CA_n257A-n259A - n257 50 100 200 400 0 n259 50 100 200 400  
CA_n257A-n259G - n257 50 100 200 400 0 n259 CA_n259G  
CA_n257A-n259H - n257 50 100 200 400 0 n259 CA_n259H  
CA_n257A-n259I - n257 50 100 200 400 0 n259 CA_n259H  
CA_n257A-n259J - n257 50 100 200 400 0 n259 CA_n259J  
CA_n257A-n259K - n257 50 100 200 400 0 n259 CA_n259K  
CA_n257A-n259L - n257 50 100 200 400 0 n259 CA_n259L  
CA_n257A-n259M - n257 50 100 200 400 0 n259 CA_n259M  
CA_n257G-n259A - n257 CA_n257G 0  
n259 50 100 200 400  
CA_n257G-n259G - n257 CA_n257G 0  
n259 CA_n259G  
CA_n257G-n259H - n257 CA_n257G 0  
n259 CA_n259H  
CA_n257G-n259I - n257 CA_n257G 0  
n259 CA_n259I  
CA_n257G-n259J - n257 CA_n257G 0  
n259 CA_n259J  
CA_n257G-n259K - n257 CA_n257G 0  
n259 CA_n259K  
CA_n257G-n259L - n257 CA_n257G 0  
n259 CA_n259L  
CA_n257G-n259M - n257 CA_n257G 0  
n259 CA_n259M  
CA_n257H-n259A - n257 CA_n257H 0  
n259 50 100 200 400  
CA_n257H-n259G - n257 CA_n257H 0  
n259 CA_n259G  
CA_n257H-n259H - n257 CA_n257H 0  
n259 CA_n259H  
CA_n257H-n259I - n257 CA_n257H 0  
n259 CA_n259I  
CA_n257H-n259J - n257 CA_n257H 0  
n259 CA_n259J  
CA_n257H-n259K - n257 CA_n257H 0  
n259 CA_n259K  
CA_n257H-n259L - n257 CA_n257H 0  
n259 CA_n259L  
CA_n257H-n259M - n257 CA_n257H 0  
n259 CA_n259M  
CA_n257I-n259A - n257 CA_n257I 0  
n259 50 100 200 400  
CA_n257I-n259G - n257 CA_n257I 0  
n259 CA_n259G  
CA_n257I-n259H - n257 CA_n257I 0  
n259 CA_n259H  
CA_n257I-n259I - n257 CA_n257I 0  
n259 CA_n259I  
CA_n257I-n259J - n257 CA_n257I 0  
n259 CA_n259J  
CA_n257I-n259K - n257 CA_n257I 0  
n259 CA_n259K  
CA_n257I-n259L - n257 CA_n257I 0  
n259 CA_n259L  
CA_n257I-n259M - n257 CA_n257I 0  
n259 CA_n259M  
CA_n258A-n260A - n258 50 100 200 400 0 n260 50 100 200 400  
NOTE 1: The SCS of each channel bandwidth for NR band refers to Table 5.3.5-1.
* * *
### 4.4.3 Reference sensitivity for inter-band CA
The inter-band requirement applies for all active component carriers. The
throughput for each component carrier shall be ≥ 95 % of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channels as specified in Annexes
A.2.3.2 of TS 38.101-2 and A.3.3.2 of TS 38.101-2 (with one sided dynamic OCNG
Pattern OP.1 TDD for the DL-signal as described in Annex A.5.2.1) with peak
reference sensitivity for each carrier specified in section 7.3.2 of TS
38.101-2, and relaxation **ΔR~IB,P,n~** applied to peak reference sensitivity
requirement. **ΔR~IB,P,n~** is specified in Table 4.4.3-1. The requirement on
each component carrier shall be met when the power in the component carrier in
the other band is set to its EIS spherical coverage requirement for inter-band
CA specified in sub-clause 4.4.4.
For the combination of intra-band and inter-band carrier aggregation, the
intra-band CA relaxation, ΔR~IB~, is also applied according to the clause
7.3A.2.1 and 7.3A.2.2 of TS 38.101-2.
Table 4.4.3-1: ΔR~IB~ reference sensitivity relaxation for inter-band CA for
power class 3
**NR CA bands** **NR band** **ΔR~IB,P,n~ (dB)**
* * *
**CA_n257-n259** **n257** **4.0** **n259** **4.0** **CA_n258-n260** **n258**
**3.5** **n260** **3.5**
### 4.4.4 EIS spherical coverage for inter-band CA
The inter-band CA requirement applies per operating band, for all active
component carriers with UL assigned to one band and one DL component carrier
per band. The requirement on each component carrier shall be met when the
power in the component carrier in the other band is set to its EIS spherical
coverage requirement for inter-band CA specified in this sub-clause.
The inter-band CA spherical coverage requirement for each power class will be
satisfied if the intersection set of spherical coverage areas exceeds the
common coverage requirement. Intersection set of spherical coverage areas is
defined as a fraction of area of full sphere measured around the UE where both
bands meet their defined individual EIS spherical coverage requirements for
inter-band CA operation. The common coverage requirement is determined as
\ %, where 'percentile rank' is the percentile value in
the specification of spherical coverage for that power class from clause 7.3.4
of TS 38.101-2. The requirement is verified with the test metric of EIS
(Link=Beam peak search grids, Meas=Link angle).
The reference measurement channels and throughput criterion shall be as
specified in clause 7.3A.2.3 of TS 38.101-2. The requirement shall be met for
an uplink transmission using QPSK DFT-s-OFDM waveforms and for uplink
transmission bandwidth less than or equal to that specified in clause 7.3.2 of
TS 38.101-2.
Unless otherwise specified, the minimum requirements for reference sensitivity
shall be verified with the network signalling value NS_200 (Table 6.2.3.1-1 of
TS 38.101-2) configured.
The required spherical coverage EIS for each band in inter-band CA operation
is given in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2 and modified by ΔR~IB,S,n~. The value
of ∆R~IB,S,n~ is defined in Table 4.4.4-1.
Table 4.4.4-1: ΔR~IB,S,n~ EIS spherical coverage requirement relaxation for
inter-band CA for power class 3
**NR CA bands** **NR band** **ΔR~IB,S,n~ (dB)**
* * *
**CA_n257-n259** **n257** **[4.0]** **n259** **[4.0]** **CA_n258-n260**
**n258** **3.5** **n260** **3.5**
### 4.4.5 Other receiver characteristics
For the FR2 inter-band DL CA configurations in Table 4.4.2-1, maximum input
level, ACS, and in-band blocking requirement are band combination agnostic and
the existing requirements in clause 7.4A.3, 7.5A.3, and 7.6A.2.3 of TS
38.101-2 shall be reused.
### 4.4.6 Release independence
Table 4.4.6-1 described the release independence of FR2 inter-band DL CA to be
specified in clause 6.2 of TS 38.307.
Table 4.4.6-1: NR interband CA within FR2
+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Feature | DL/UL | Maximum | CA BW | Dupl | Release | requi | | | | number | Classes | ex-mode | | rements | | | | of | | | inde | to be | | | | bands | | | pendent | fu | | | | | | | from | lfilled | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | 38.307 | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | REL in | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | the CA | | | | | | | | config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | was | | | | | | | | intr | | | | | | | | oduced) | +=========+=======+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+ | Int | DL | 2 | B, C, | TDD | Rel-16 | Table | | er-band | | | D, E, | | | B.4.2-1 | | CA | | | F, G, | | | | | configu | | | H, I, | | | | | rations | | | J, K, | | | | | within | | | L, M, | | | | | NR FR2 | | | O, P, Q | | | | +---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | UL | 1 | B, C, | TDD | Rel-16 | | | | | | D, E, | | | | | | | | F, G, | | | | | | | | H, I, | | | | | | | | J, K, | | | | | | | | L, M, | | | | | | | | O, P, Q | | | | +---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## 4.5 UE requirements for CA configurations within the same frequency group
based on CBM
# 5 Inter-band UL CA
## 5.1 Feasibility study for CA configurations within same frequency group
based on IBM and CBM
## 5.2 Feasibility study for CA configurations between different frequency
groups based on CBM
## 5.3 UE requirements for CA configuration CA_n257A-n259A based on IBM
# 6 UL gaps for self-calibration and monitoring
## 6.1 Phase 1
### 6.1.1 Study of the performance gain over the current baseline
### 6.1.2 Study of RF performance evaluation/testability related to UE self-
calibration and monitoring
### 6.1.3 Study network impact of UE emissions during UL gap
## 6.2 Phase 2
### 6.2.1 Specification related aspects
#### 6.2.1.1 UL gap configuration(s)
#### 6.2.1.2 UE capability
#### 6.2.1.3 UE interruptions
### 6.2.2 UE fall back behaviour i.e. if gaps are not available for UE
requesting gaps
### 6.2.3 Release independence aspects
###### ## Annex \ (informative): \
#