# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for Rel-17 NR support for high
speed train scenario in FR2.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] C.A. Balanis: \"Antenna theory: design and analysis \", Wiley, 2005.
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Introduction
5G NR operating in millimeter wave bands (i.e., Frequency Range 2) is
recognized as the technology capable of providing ultra-high data-rate
transmission, thanks to the availability of enormous amount of bandwidth in
FR2 and the advanced 5G NR design for FR2 beamforming-based operation.
Inspired by the successful commercial FR2 deployment globally, more potential
5G NR deployment scenarios in FR2 draw attentions from the industry. Among
those scenarios identified, high speed train (HST) scenario has the special
importance, because of the fast expanding HST systems worldwide deployed and
the great demands of high-speed connections from passengers and HST special
services. This triggers the new and challenging demand for 5G NR FR2 HST
scenario.
In existing study and work items led by 3GPP RAN4 (for either LTE or NR), high
speed train scenarios under consideration has the operating bands up to
3.5GHz, however no existing works studied the more challenging millimeter wave
frequency range 2, in which Doppler shift and Doppler spread will be further
severe (e.g., for 240km/h with 28GHz, the Doppler shift is about 6.22kHz) and
more challenging to radio resource management. Specifically, the existing FR2
RRM and demodulation requirements has not yet taken into account the impact of
high speed in the above-mentioned scenario, where the channel model and
mobility scenario need further study and the demodulation, measurement,
mobility and beam management related requirements require to be further
specified.
It should be noted that user equipment considered in 5G NR FR2 HST scenario is
vehicle-roof mounted customer-premises equipment (CPE), which are expected to
communicate with track-side deployed gNBs for the backhaul link and to further
provide on-board broadband connections to user terminals and/or for other
train-specific demands as access link.
**This work will specify NR UE RF requirements** , UE RRM requirements and
BS/UE performance requirements for high speed train scenario with up to
350km/h in Rel-17.
# 5 FR2 HST deployment scenario
Following section include the agreed FR2 HST deployment specific investigated
options and agreements.
## 5.1 General
This section includes the agreed scenario and RRH parameters to be used in the
investigated FR2 HST deployments. It **captures the agreement and conclusions
made during the work on FR2 HST deployment scenario and related aspects.**
Following figure 5.1-1 illustrates the definition of the different used
D-values.
{width="6.686805555555556in" height="1.8881944444444445in"}
Figure 5.1-1 Illustration of the D-values used on RAN4 work.
General deployment parameters:
RAN4 will at least consider the following general deployment scenarios:
\- **D~s~ and D~min~: Take the 5 scenarios in table 5.1-1 as basic
assumption** ; and
\- **Scenario 1 and 4 shall be considered with high priority; and**
\- **D~min~ for [5m, 20, 30 and 50 meters] if found to be necessary; and**
\- **D~RRH_height~: 15m as basic assumption, [10,20m] if found to be
necessary; and**
> \- D~UE_height~: 5m.
Scenario Ds (meter) D~min~ (meter)
* * *
1 800 10 2 700 10 3 500 10 4 700 150 5 200 30
Tunnel Deployment Scenario (study tunnel scenario after the prioritized
scenarios):
The detailed deployment scenario for tunnel deployment for FR2 HST is still
open in RAN4
\- RAN4 will further study tunnel deployment scenario for FR2 HST.
Sub-Carrier Spacing (SCS):
It is still open which SCS options to consider. The options are:
\- **Option-1: SCS = 120kHz; and**
**\- Option-2: Consider both SCS = 120kHz and 60kHz.**
Concerning the transmissions schemes following schemes were discussed in
distinguished:
\- JT: Joint Transmission scheme applied for all channel (SSB, TRS, PDCCH,
PDSCH) -- Full SFN; and
\- DPS: Dynamic Point Selection based on the Rel-15 beam management (BM)
principles; and
\- Multi-DCI based Multi-TRP transmission based on the Rel-15 eMIMO
principles.
Among these the following down selection has been agreed:
\- For this WI discussion, FR2 HST transmission schemes which are not
compatible with Rel-15/16 NR are precluded; and
\- For this WI discussion, Joint transmission (JT) used for FR2 HST, only full
SFN is considered; and
\- For this WI discussion, Multi-DCI based multi-TRP transmission is
precluded.
RAN4 primarily consider HST FR2 deployment with
\- One train moving over one railway track in one direction. RAN4 focuses on 1
direction 1 train. If this opposite direction is completely symmetric, the 1
direction study can apply directly; and
\- RRHs are located on one side of the track.
Dedicated network for roof-mounted CPE:
\- RAN4 to assume that in HST FR2 Scenario A, only high-speed CPEs installed
on the roof of the train can be present in the network.
RAN4 did comparison between unidirectional and bi-directional RRH deployments
for Scenario-A and concluded that from signal strength and beam coverage
perspective the bi-directional deployment will not provide significant
throughput improvement compared to unidirectional deployment. This conclusion
is based on the deployment scenario analysis. RAN4 will only consider
unidirectional deployments for Scenario-A. Bi-directional deployment can be
considered if the feasibility issue of unidirectional deployment is
identified.
RAN4 assume that FR2 HST with CPEs is operated as dedicated network. Hence,
assumption in RAN4 is that in HST FR2 Scenario A and B, only high-speed CPEs
installed on the roof of the train can be present in the network. There is no
need to differentiate roof-mounted CPE from other FR2 UEs in HST FR2 scenario.
RAN4 will not consider curvature when defining the requirements.
## 5.2 HST scenario and RRH parameters
RAN4 will investigate both unidirectional and bidirectional deployment
scenarios for FR2 HST.
The exact understanding and definition of HST still needs further discussion
based on the following interpretations:
\- **HST Interpretation-1: All RRHs under one BBU transmit the same signal
(SFN)**.
\- Selected RRH(s) for TX, depending on DPS Tx mode is used or not.
**\- HST Interpretation-2: All RRHs under one BBU in the same cell ID, but for
different TCI.**
\- **Other interpretation is not precluded.**
For full SFN JT and unidirectional RRH deployment, only consider following
scenario:
\- The setting with only one TCI state transmission.
The value of Ds_offset implicitly limit the RRH beam direction, so there is no
need to introduce additional restriction on RRH beam's possible range of angle
on azimuthal plane.
### 5.2.1 Unidirectional deployments
For the unidirectional scenario RAN4 will consider a scenario, where, **one
panel per RRH pointed to the same direction for all RRHs (figure 5.2.1-1).**
{width="6.686805555555556in" height="1.8881944444444445in"}
Figure 5.2.1-1 HST scenario with one panel per RRH pointing to the same
direction for all RRHs
For the unidirectional scenario the following unidirectional deployment
scenario in table 5.2-1 will be prioritized:
Table 5.2-1: Assumed deployment parameters for unidirectional scenario.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +==================================+==================================+ | Ds and Dmin | Scenario 2: Ds = 700m and Dmin = | | | 10m | | | | | | Scenario 4: Ds = 700m and Dmin = | | | 150m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RRH height | 15m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of RRH sites per BBU | 4 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of RRH panels per RRH | 1 (i.e. unidirectional) | | sites | ^Note\ 1^ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of analog beams per RRH | 1 or 2 ^Note\ 2^ | | panel | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RRH panel orientation | Option 1: RRH panel boresight | | | pointed to the railway at the | | | direction of Ds (projection of | | | the neighboring RRH on the | | | railway). | | | | | | Option 2: other options not | | | precluded | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Analog beam orientation | Based on companies' selection | | | for better performance | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Note 1: For JT for all channels, | | | 1 beam per RRH panel is | | | considered. | | | | | | Note 2: For DPS, 1 or 2 analog | | | beams per RRH panel can be | | | considered. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Number of Beam for unidirectional RRH deployment, Scenario 2:
\- For scenario 2, unidirectional, RRH parameter: 1 beam per RRH panel; and
\- For scenario 2, unidirectional, UE parameter:
a) 1 beam per panel; and
b) 2 panels assumed to be implemented in the UE side; and
c) Only the one active panel per UE can be used for Tx and Rx; and FFS whether
another panel can be used for beam search
RRH switching point for unidirectional RRH deployment, Scenario 2, figure
5.2.1-2:
\- RRH switching point is where the UE switches from the source RRH beam to
the target RRH beam based on maximizing SNR among detected beams.
{width="6.458333333333333in" height="2.1601640419947508in"}
Figure 5.2.1-2: RRH switching point for unidirectional RRH deployment.
Number of Beam for unidirectional RRH deployment, Scenario 4:
\- For scenario 4, unidirectional, RRH parameter:
a) 1 beam per RRH panel; or
b) 2 beams per RRH panel; or
c) 3 beams per RRH panel; or
d) 4 beams per RRH panel.
Note that uneven separation between beams can be considered.
RAN4 agreed that at least 2 beams per RRH panel is considered. Other options
are not precluded, and it is FFS whether there are benefits of implementing
more beams per RRH panel.
\- For scenario 4, unidirectional, UE parameter:
a) 1 beam per UE panel; or
b) 2 beams per UE panel; or
c) 7 beams per UE panel.
RAN4 assumes 2 panels to be implemented in the UE side. Only the one active
panel per UE can be used for Tx and Rx; and FFS whether another panel can be
used for beam search.
RAN4 decided that at least option a) of having 1 beam per panel is considered.
Other options are not precluded, and it is FFS whether there are benefits of
implementing more beams per UE panel.
### 5.2.2 Bidirectional deployment
For the bidirectional scenario RAN4 will consider a scenario where there is
one panel per RRH with signals to opposite directions along the track (figure
5.2.2-1).
{width="6.686805555555556in" height="2.2534722222222223in"}
Figure 5.2.2-1 HST scenario with one panel per RRH
Additionally, also SFN scenario where there are two panels per RRH (figure
5.2.2-2).
{width="6.686805555555556in" height="1.8881944444444445in"}
Figure 5.2.2-2 HST scenario with two panels per RRH
For the bi-directional scenario the following bi-directional deployment
scenario in table 5.2-2 will be studied:
Table 5.2-2: Assumed deployment parameters for bi-directional scenario.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +==================================+==================================+ | Ds and Dmin | Scenario 2: Ds = 700m and Dmin = | | | 10m | | | | | | Scenario 4: Ds = 700m and Dmin = | | | 150m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RRH height | 15m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of RRH sites per BBU | 4 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of RRH panels per RRH | 2 (i.e. bi-directional) | | sites | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of analog beams per RRH | 1, 2 or 4 | | panel | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RRH panel orientation | Option 1: RRH panel boresight | | | pointed to the railway in the | | | middle point between 2 RRHs. | | | | | | Option 2: RRH panel boresight | | | pointed to the railway at the | | | distance of Ds (projection of | | | the neighboring RRH on the | | | railway). Other options not | | | precluded. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Analog beam orientation | Based on companies' selection | | | for better performance | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Candidate schemes for bi-directional deployment for further analysis, scenario
2:
{width="5.122259405074366in" height="2.288416447944007in"}
Figure 5.2.2-3: Connecting to 2nd-Nearest RRH
{width="5.0867279090113735in" height="2.23122375328084in"}
Figure 5.2.2-4: Scheme-2: Connecting to Nearest RRH except Coverage Hole
For Scenario 2 bi-directional RRH deployment:
\- [Scheme 1 under bi-directional scenario is feasible without coverage hole
issue, and no propagation delay jump between switching points];
\- Scheme-2 can be used as starting points for further analysis.
Number of beams for bi-directional RRH deployment, Scenario 2:
\- For scenario 2, bi-directional, RRH parameter: 1 beam per RRH panel, two
panels in opposite directions; and
\- For scenario 2, bi-directional, UE parameter: 1 beam per UE panel (i.e., 2
beams per UE).
Candidate schemes for bi-directional deployment for further analysis, for
scenario 4:
{width="4.205592738407699in" height="1.878886701662292in"}
Figure 5.2.2-5: Connecting to 2nd-Nearest RRH
{width="4.408234908136483in" height="1.9336122047244095in"}
Figure 5.2.2-67: Scheme-2: Connecting to Nearest RRH except Coverage Hole
{width="4.048729221347331in" height="1.5026465441819772in"}
Figure 5.2.2-7: Scheme-3: Connecting to Nearest RRH except the area under the
RRH
For Scenario 4 bi-directional RRH deployment: the schemes above can be used as
starting points for further analysis.
Number of beams for bi-directional RRH deployment, Scenario 4:
\- For scenario B, bi-directional, RRH parameter:
a) 1 beam per RRH panel; or
b) 2 beams per RRH panel; or
c) 3 beams per RRH panel; or
d) 4 beams per RRH panel.
Note that uneven separation between beams can be considered.
RAN4 agreed that at least 2 beams per RRH panel is considered. Other options
are not precluded, and it is FFS whether there are benefits of implementing
more beams per RRH panel.
\- For scenario 4, bi-directional, UE parameter:
a) 1 beam per UE panel; or
b) 2 beams per UE panel; or
c) 7 beams per UE panel.
RAN4 assumes 2 panels to be implemented in the UE side. Only the one active
panel per UE can be used for Tx and Rx; and FFS whether another panel can be
used for beam search.
RAN4 decided that at least option a) of having 1 beam per panel is considered.
Other options are not precluded, and it is FFS whether there are benefits of
implementing more beams per UE panel.
For bi-directional RRH deployment, DPS transmission scheme shall be
considered.
### 5.2.3 RRH Parameters
**The detailed RRH parameters are still under discussion in RAN4 and following
options have been agreed for potential down selection:**
Number of RRH sites per BBU:
\- **[1 to 4] RRHs sites per BBU** ; and
\- **Other values are not precluded.**
Number of Analog Beams per panel in RRH:
\- **[1,2,4] analogue beam(s) per panel in RRH** ; and
\- **Other values are not precluded.**
SSB index to Beam Mapping. The impact of following options for SSB index to
Beam mapping is FFS:
1) Option 1:
a) All RRHs (connected to one BBU with fiber) share the same cell ID; and
b) All RRHs under the same cell use the same set of SSB indexes, e.g., all
RRHs use SSB-0 to SSB-3.
2) Option 2:
a) All RRHs (connected to one BBU with fiber) share the same cell ID; and
b) RRHs under the same cell use the different sets of SSB indexes, e.g., RRH-1
uses SSB-0 to SSB-3, RRH-2 uses SSB-4 to SSB-7.
When DPS is used as transmission scheme, SSB index to Beam Mapping used in the
discussion for this WI is as follows:
RRHs under the same cell use different sets of SSB indexes, e.g., RRH-1 uses
SSB-0 to SSB-3, RRH-2 uses SSB-4 to SSB-7, etc.
RAN4 discussed the aspect of potential handover problem due to sudden RX
signal increase of the target cell. RAN4 thinks that this can be alleviated by
DPS transmission scheme with carefully allocated SSB-index among neighboring
cells to avoid inter-cell interference.
Concerning RRH antenna array orientation the impact of following options for
RRH antenna array orientation is FFS:
\- **Option 1: RRH panel boresight pointed to the railway in the middle point
between 2 RRHs** ; or
\- **Option 2: RRH panel boresight pointed to the railway at the distance of
Ds (projection of the neighbouring RRH on the railway); or**
**\- Other option is not precluded.**
**Related to** RRH/UE boresight direction of Antenna Panel and beam direction,
RAN4 may not need to specify RRH/UE boresight direction of antenna panel and
beam direction for deployment scenario study, but left for companies' choice:
\- RRH/UE boresight direction of antenna panel and beam direction information
can be provided by individual company to accompany their deployment scenario
analysis result, which can be captured in TR.
## 5.3 Train roof-mounted high-power CPE parameters
### 5.3.0 Introduction
NOTE: Single panel, i.e. only one active antenna panel at a time, as baseline
antenna assumption
### 5.3.1 Number of panels per CPE
**The number of panels per CPE was open and for discussion.** Concerning the
number of panels per CPE following will be considered:
\- 2 panels per CPE each for both for TX and RX. Each panel points in opposite
directions.
For the bi-directional Operation for Two Panels in the CPE following is
considered:
\- Follow the Rel-15/16 principle of "only one active Rx/Tx panel at a time".
### 5.3.2 Placement of CPE panel(s)
UE antenna panel(s) for forward and backward directions:
\- RAN4 to consider CPE to be equipped with two panels pointed forward and
backward along the track.
UE boresight direction of Antenna Panel and beam direction, RAN4 may not need
to specify RRH/UE boresight direction of antenna panel and beam direction for
deployment scenario study, but left for companies' choice:
\- RRH/UE boresight direction of antenna panel and beam direction information
can be provided by individual company to accompany their deployment scenario
analysis result, which can be captured in TR.
### 5.3.3 Number of CPE devices
Number of CPE devices per train/carriage:
\- RAN4 requirement can be defined based on the baseline of 1 CPE device per
train.
# 6 FR2 high speed feasibility evaluation
This section will include the evaluation parameters and channel model used in
the FR2 HST and used for evaluating the feasibility FR2 HST.
## 6.1 Evaluation Parameters
### 6.1.1 RRH antenna array parameters for evaluation
RAN4 will perform FR2 HST feasibility study based on following RRH antenna
array parameters in table 6.1.1.1 for evaluation:
Table 6.1.1.1
Parameter Urban Macro 30 GHz
* * *
A~m~ 30 SLA~y~ 30 j~3dB~ 90 q~3dB~ 90 G~e,max~ 5.5 L~E~ 1.8 P 2 d~y~ 0.5l d~h~
0.5l
Antenna array configuration options were considered:
\- **Option-1: [Mg, Ng, M, N, P] = [1, 1, 4, 8, 2]** ; and
\- **Option-2: [Mg, Ng, M, N, P] = [1, 1, 8, 8, 2]; and**
**\- Option-3: [Mg, Ng, M, N, P] = [1, 1, 8, 16, 2].**
**RAN4 also agreed that other options are not precluded.** RRH Antenna Element
Assumption for RRH side following option is assumed:
\- Option-2: [Mg, Ng, M, N, P] = [1, 1, 8, 8, 2].
RF session can trigger relevant discussion on RF requirements taking above
agreements into account.
### 6.1.2 RRH antenna element parameters for evaluation
RAN4 agreed to use the following RAN1 assumptions in table 6.1.2.1 for BS
evaluation as baseline, while other assumptions are not precluded:
Table 6.1.2.1: BS evaluation parameters.
* * *
Radiation power pattern of a single antenna element for TRP Vertical cut of
the radiation power pattern (dB)  
Horizontal cut of the radiation power pattern (dB)  
3D radiation power pattern (dB)  
Maximum directional gain of an antenna element G~E,max~ [8] dBi
* * *
### 6.1.3 CPE antenna array parameters for evaluation
RAN4 will perform the FR2 HST feasibility study based on following CPE antenna
array parameters for evaluation:
\- **RAN1 assumption: 2 ports: [Mg, Ng, M, N, P] = [1, 1, 2, 4, 2]** ; and
\- **PC4 assumption: 2 ports: [Mg, Ng, M, N, P] = [1, 1, 4, 4, 2].**
RAN4 also agreed that other options are not precluded.
UE Antenna Element Assumption: on UE side:
\- Option 1: N=4, M=4 with 2 polarizations as starting point, and other
options not precluded pending on further discussion.
RF session can trigger relevant discussion on RF requirements taking above
agreements into account.
### 6.1.4 CPE antenna element parameters for evaluation
RAN4 use the following RAN1 assumption for CPE antenna element parameters
evaluation in table 6.1.4.1 as baseline:
Table 6.1.4.1: CPE antenna element parameters.
Parameter Values
* * *
Antenna element radiation pattern in θ'' dim (dB)  
Antenna element radiation pattern in ϕ'' dim (dB)  
Combining method for 3D antenna element pattern (dB)  
Maximum directional gain of an antenna element G~E,max~ **5dBi**
## 6.2 Channel model for FR2 HST
This section collects the channel model information used for FR2 HST
feasibility evaluation and provides the analysis on channel modelling for
performance requirements.
### 6.2.1 Pathloss model used for link budget evaluation
To have the link budget analysis for the proposed FR2 HST deployment
scenarios, the accurate large-scale pathloss model is one of the
prerequisites. The following large scale pathloss models are proposed to be
considered as candidate options**:**
\- **Option-1: TR38.901 RMa LoS (baseline option)** ; or
\- **Option-2: free space model; or**
**\- Option-3: TR38.901 UMa LoS.**
TS38.901 RMa LoS pathloss model will be used for link budget evaluation at
least for scenario 2 in table 5.1-1.
RAN4 to choose TS38.901 RMa LoS pathloss model also for the evaluation of
Scenario 4 in table 5.1-1.
For the purpose of demonstrating and validating which large scale channel
modeling is suitable for FR2 HST, the analysis has been provided based on the
practical field measurement. Specifically, based upon the conditions provided
in the Table 6.2.1-1, the practical field testing on a trait along a typical
railway has been conducted to obtain measurement data at the frequency of
28GHz, as illustrated in the Figure 6.2.1-1.
Table 6.2.1-1 Parameters for practical field measurement for typical high
speed train scenario
Parameter name Configuration value
* * *
Minimum TX-RX distance 60 m Maximum TX-RX distance 550 m Distance granularity
1 m Center frequency 28 GHz TX antenna height 5 m RX antenna height 3 m
Parameter _h_ ~E~ in 3GPP 1 m
{width="3.4583333333333335in" height="2.5760520559930007in"}
Figure 6.2.1-1 Illustration of practical field measurement conducted for
typical high speed train scenario
By having the analysis based on the measurement data obtained from the
measurement campaign as above described, the comparison among measurement
results and pathloss models (i.e., the three options of RMa LOS, UMa LOS and
free space model) is demonstrated in Figure 6.2.1-2 and accompanying Table
6.2.1-2 in which the numerical results are contained.
{width="4.701388888888889in" height="3.2705369641294837in"}
Figure 6.2.1-2 Comparison of measurement data and pathloss models for FR2 HST
By leveraging the numerical results in terms of the root mean square error
(RMSE), mean error and standard deviation (Std), it has been demonstrated that
for the evaluated range there is no significant difference from three
different pathloss LoS models, and the field measurement also validate that
LoS model can reflect the practical FR2 HST channel condition compared with
NLoS models. By further investigating three LoS models' similarity from
measurement data, it has been demonstrated that RMa LoS model can achieve the
lowest value of RMSE and best mean error with reasonable standard deviation.
Table 6.2.1-2 Numerical comparison of measurement data and pathloss models for
FR2 HST
                     RMSE      Mean Error   Std
* * *
Free space model 4.5212 -0.74819 4.4634 RMa LoS model 4.4716 0.13552 4.4741
UMa LoS model 4.4974 -0.3428 4.4889 RMa NLoS model 35.1499 34.4667 6.9036 UMa
NLoS model 26.5 25.692 6.5006
Based upon the above analysis on the measurement data from the typical railway
environment for 28GHz, it has been demonstrated that TS38.901 RMa LoS model is
an accurate large-scale pathloss model and it is agreed that TS38.901 RMa LoS
pathloss model is adopted to be used for link budget evaluation at least for
Scenario-A.
Editor Note: FFS pathloss model for tunnel deployment scenario and Scenario-B.
### 6.2.2 Channel modelling for performance requirements
Based on WID as follows, RAN4 is tasked to further study the channel model for
FR2 HST, where the key question needs to be answer:
\- **Whether or not single-tap per RRH channel model is assumed in UL
direction** ; and
\- **Whether single- or multi-tap model is assumed in DL direction.**
Compared with the FR1 counterpart, the major difference of having analog
beamforming in FR2 should be considered in determining channel model for
performance requirement. Depending on whether or not joint transmission is
allowed for FR2 HST, it could be possible to have multiple taps from
neighboring RRHs, while if only DPS is allowed single tap model should be
employed.
Furthermore, whether or not the single tap is accurate enough for a single TX-
RX link in FR2 HST scenario has been studied. Specifically, a measurement-
data-calibrated FR2 HST ray-tracing model is used to simulate various paths of
LoS and reflected path for a practical railway scenario. As required by WID,
the UE is mounted on top of the driver's cabin of the train in the simulation.
And the traveling length is 2000 m, with a sampling distance of 20 m, thus
making 200 snapshots (UE locations) be simulated.
{width="5.764031058617673in" height="3.0833333333333335in"}
Figure 6.2.2-1 Illustrative of the setup for FR2 HST ray-tracing simulation
For each given UE location, the received signals from 4 RRHs are simulated by
using the ray-tracing model. Numerically, it has been demonstrated that all
simulated snap shots have the ratio of received non-first-tap power over total
received power smaller than 0.01, or in other words, in all snap shots, the
first tap can contain more than 99% of the energy, which validate the single-
tap assumption from a single TX-RX link in FR2 HST.
{width="5.8284722222222225in" height="4.365972222222222in"}
Figure 6.2.2-2 CDF of the ratio of non-first-tap power over total power
Based on measurement-data-calibrated ray-tracing modeling at 28GHz for typical
railway environment, it has been validated that the single-tap is accurate
enough to represent a single TX-RX link for FR2 HST. Therefore, it is agreed
that for channel modelling for performance requirement, the single-tap can be
assumed for a single TX-RX link at least for Scenario-A.
Editor Note: FFS multi-tap models are needed for SFN and other scenarios and
FFS channel model for Scenario-B.
For channel modelling for performance requirement evaluation:
\- Single-tap can be assumed for a single TX-RX link at least for scenario 2
in table 5.1-1.
RAN4 agreed that for both uplink and downlink the cosine of angle θ(t) used in
Doppler shift in channel model is applied. This applies for:
\- A particular uni-directional deployment scenario; and
\- A particular bi-directional deployment scenario.
The single tap propagation model can be assumed for each single Tx-Rx link for
both scenario 2 and scenario 4 in table 5.1-1
RAN4 agreed that the uplink and downlink channel model in uni-directional
deployments one channel model (either toward to serving beam or away from
serving beam) is applied for demodulation requirement even if UE can travel in
two directions in practice.
RAN4 will use the following HST-DPS channel model as a starting point for FR2
HST uni-directional RRH deployment:
\- UE is moving towards the serving beam
\- The cosine of angle θ(t) used in Doppler shift ${f_{s}\left( t \right) =
f_{d}\ \cos}{\theta\left( t \right)}$ is provided as
\- $\cos{\theta\left( t \right)} = \frac{D_{s_\text{offset}}\
\mathbf{+}\mathbf{D}_{\mathbf{s}} - \text{vt}}{\sqrt{D_{\min}^{2} + \left(
D_{s_\text{offset}}\mathbf{+}\mathbf{D}_{\mathbf{s}} - \text{vt}
\right)^{2}}},\ \ 0  D_{s}/v\text{~~}$ (2)
Where:
\- $0\ \leq D_{s_\text{offset}}  D_{s}/v$ **(6)**
Option 2(b): based on Scheme-2 for Bidirectional RRH Deployment:
\- $\cos\theta\left( t \right) = \frac{- （D_{s} +
\text{vt}）}{\sqrt{D_{\min}^{2} + \left( D_{s} + \text{vt} \right)^{2}}}$, $0
\leq t  \frac{D_{s}}{v}$ _(10)_
\- $D_{s_{\text{offset}}} = 100m$ (The Ds_offset is derived from the worst
case based on analysis of deployment scenarios)
Option 2(c): based on Scheme-3 for Bidirectional RRH Deployment:
\- $\cos{\theta\left( t \right)} = \frac{D_{s} - vt}{\sqrt{D_{\min}^{2} +
\left( D_{s} - vt \right)^{2}}},\ \ 0  D_{s}/v$ **(15)**
\- $A_{\text{offset}}  Uni-directional Scenario-A: | | | > | | | > 1 Rx beam (scaling factor 8 is | | | > assumed for RRC measurements, L1 | | | > measurements and cell detection | | | > delays in simulations) | | | > | | | > Rx beam is oriented parallel to | | | > the railway track towards the | | | > serving Tx beam. | | | > | | | > Uni-directional Scenario-B: | | | > | | | > 8 Rx beams (scaling factor 8 is | | | > assumed for RRC measurements, L1 | | | > measurements and cell detection | | | > delays in simulations) | | | > | | | > Rx beam orientations (90 degrees | | | > is boresight of antenna panel): | | | > 55, 65, 75, 85, 95, 105, 115, 125 | | | > degrees (only first three are | | | > usable for RRHs north from track | | | > to be comparable with | | | > bi-directional case) | | | > | | | > Bi-directional Scenario-B: | | | > | | | > 4 Rx beams (scaling factor 8 is | | | > assumed for RRC measurements, L1 | | | > measurements and cell detection | | | > delays in simulations) | | | > | | | > Rx beam orientations (90 degrees | | | > is boresight of antenna panel): | | | > 55, 65, 75, 85 degrees | | | > | | | > Bi-directional Scenario-A: | | | > | | | > 1 Rx beam per panel (scaling | | | > factor 8 is assumed for RRC | | | > measurements, L1 measurements and | | | > cell detection delays in | | | > simulations) | | | > | | | > Two Rx beams of the CPE are | | | > oriented parallel to the railway | | | > track in opposite directions. | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | DRX | DRX disabled (DRX 0), 40, 80, 160 | | | ms cycles | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | RRC measurement period | N=8 assumed in scaling | | | | | L1 RSRP measurement period | > DRX 0: 480 ms | | | > | | | > DRX 40: 1440 ms | | | > | | | > DRX 80: 2880 ms | | | > | | | > DRX 160: 5760 ms | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | Cell detection delay | N = 8 is assumed in scaling | | | | | (T~PSS/SSS_sync_intra~) | > DRX 0: 600 ms | | | > | | | > DRX 40: 1440 ms | | | > | | | > DRX 80: 2880 ms | | | > | | | > DRX 160: 5760 ms | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | RLM assumptions | N=8 assumed in scaling | | | | | | > T~Evaluate_out_CSI-RS~: 600, | | | > 3600, 7200, 14400 ms (DRX 0, 40, | | | > 80, 160) | | | > | | | > T~Evaluate_in_CSI-RS~: 300, | | | > 1800, 3600, 7200 ms (DRX 0, 40, | | | > 80, 160) | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | BFD assumptions | N=8 assumed in scaling | | | | | | > T~Evaluate_BFD_CSI-RS~: 300, | | | > 1800, 3600, 7200 ms (DRX 0, 40, | | | > 80, 160) | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | PDCCH model | Non-ideal PDCCH model with AL16 | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+
###### 6.3.4.1.1.1 Uni-directional Scenario-A without DPS
This section shows system level simulation mobility performance results for
uni-directional Scenario-A without DPS for both the case when train is
traveling into same direction (Dir:Same in legends) as RRH beam are pointing
to and into opposite direction (Dir:Opposite in legends). Figure 6.3.4.1.1.1-1
shows successful handover rate per CPE per second and ping-pong rate as
percentage of ping-pong handovers per all handovers. Ping-pong handover is
observed when two handovers happen back and forth between two same cells in
one second. It is observed that handover and ping-pong rates are the highest
without DRX and gradually decrease when DRX cycle is increased. Significant
drop in successful handovers is observed when train travels to opposite
direction than RRH beams are pointed to and DRX is used. Ping-pongs are not
observed in the cases with DRX configured.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}Figure 6.3.4.1.1.1-1 Handover and ping-pong
handover rates
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.1-2 shows average time-of-stay in cell (RRH). It is observed
that without DRX the time-of-stay in RRH is slightly lower than the time train
with 350 km/h speed takes to travel the distance of one Ds of 700 meters
(about 7.2 seconds). This result is due to ping-pongs observed in Figure
6.3.4.1.1.1-1. With DRX cycles 80-160 ms the time-of-stay increases to over 7
seconds.
{width="3.2933639545056868in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.1-2 Time-of-stay in cell
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.1-3 shows time-of-outage percentage per call (existence of
CPE in the simulation) and average time-of-outage duration due to low SINR
(below -8 dB) conditions. Time-of-outage percentage per call includes all the
sources of outage combined. This consists of handover execution time, the time
it takes to perform radio link failure related procedures from observing radio
link problem until re-establishment of connection and the time below -8 dB
SINR conditions are observed in the simulation even prior to radio link
problem can be detected based on filtering. It is observed from the results
that significant outage is detected only in case train travels to opposite
direction than RRHs are pointing to and DRX is used.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.1-3 Time-of-outage per call and time-of-outage duration due
to low SINR
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.1-4 shows inter-cell mobility failure rate (RLF + HOF
percentage of all handover and failure events). The results show that failure
rate is very high in case train is traveling to opposite direction than RRH
beams are pointing to and DRX is used in case of legacy RRM requirements. DRX
40 ms causes about 70% failure rate and DRX 80-160 ms causes even higher
number of problems with over 80% failure rate in this scenario. No failures
are observed when train is traveling into same direct as RRH beams are
pointing to.
{width="3.2933639545056868in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.1-4 Mobility failure rate
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.1-5 shows distribution of raw SINR values taken from the CQI
measurements and it is observed that SINR level is high and clearly sufficient
to support high mobility performance except in the cases with DRX 40-160 ms
and train traveling to opposite direction.
{width="4.194477252843394in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.1-5 SINR distributions
###### 6.3.4.1.1.2 Uni-directional Scenario-A with DPS
This section shows system level simulation mobility performance results for
uni-directional Scenario-A with DPS. Some of the observed statistics are of
different type than in the section without DPS. Figure 6.3.4.1.1.2-1 shows
successful beam switch rate per CPE per second and ping-pong rate as
percentage of ping-pong beam switches per all beam switches. Beam ping-pong is
observed when two beam switches happen back and forth between two same beams
in one second. Practically in Scenario-A with just one Tx beam per RRH this
means ping-pongs between RRHs. In DPS case the same trend is observed in beam
switches as with handovers in non-DPS case, without DRX the rates are the
highest and gradually rates decrease when longer DRX cycles are used. The
differences between the rates in train travel direction are rather low except
in the case with DRX cycle 160 ms where beam switch rate drops significantly
when train in traveling to opposite direction.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.2-1 Beam switch and beam ping-pong rates
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.2-2 shows time-of-outage percentage per call (existence of
CPE in the simulation) and average time-of-outage duration due to low SINR
(below -8 dB) conditions. Similar trend is observed here as without DPS that
the time-of-outage rates are very low when train is traveling to the same
direction as RRH beams are pointing to and none of the outages are caused by
low SINR. In the opposite direction time-of-outage starts to increase
significantly when DRX cycles are 40 ms or longer. However, time-of-outage is
significantly lower than without DPS due to lower delay when switching to
different RRH location. Regardless of this the case of DRX cycle 160 ms has
very significant time-of-outage in the opposite direction.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.2-2 Time-of-outage per call and time-of-outage duration due
to low SINR
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.2-3 shows beam failure indication rate as percentage of BFIs
per beam switches. Similar trend is observed without DPS that no failures
happen among the studied DRX cycles when train is traveling to same direction
as RRH beams are pointing to. In case of opposite direction, the failure
indication rates are very high even with short DRX when legacy performance
requirements are used with scaling factor 8.
{width="3.2933639545056868in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.2-3 Beam failure indication rate
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.2-4 shows distribution of raw SINR values taken from the CQI
measurements and it is observed that SINR level is high and clearly sufficient
to support high mobility performance except in the cases with DRX 40-160 ms
and train traveling to opposite direction. However, the amount of low SINR
samples below 0 dB are less common in cases of DRX 40-80 ms when DPS is used.
{width="3.9987817147856517in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.2-4 SINR distributions
###### 6.3.4.1.1.3 Uni-directional Scenario-B without DPS
This section shows system level simulation mobility performance results for
uni-directional Scenario-B without DPS. Also, comparison between 1 and 2 beams
per RRH is included in this section. Figure 6.3.4.1.1.3-1 shows successful
handover rate per CPE per second and ping-pong rate as percentage of ping-pong
handovers per all handovers. It is observed that without DRX the handover rate
is the highest and it drops when DRX cycle 40 ms is used but remains at
approximately same level with all simulated DRX cycles. This indicates that
there is more time to perform handover in Scenario-B than in Scenario-A
particularly when comparing the cases when train is traveling to opposite
direction than the RRH beams are pointing to. It is also observed that without
DRX there are higher handover and ping-pong rates with 1 beam per RRH than 2
beams per RRH.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.3-1 Handover and ping-pong handover rates
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.3-2 shows average time-of-stay in cell (RRH). It is observed
that without DRX the time-of-stay in RRH is significantly lower than the time
train with 350 km/h speed takes to travel the distance of one Ds of 700 meters
(about 7.2 seconds) particularly with 1 Tx beam per RRH. This result is due to
ping-pongs observed in Figure 6.3.4.1.1.3-1 in similar way as in Scenario A.
Time-of-stay is relatively close among all studied DRX cycles in this scenario
and close to the expected time-of-stay based on Ds.
{width="3.2933639545056868in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.3-2 Time-of-stay in cell
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.3-3 shows time-of-outage percentage per call (existence of
CPE in the simulation) and average time-of-outage duration due to low SINR
(below -8 dB) conditions. It is observed that in Scenario-B the outage rates
are very low compared to Scenario-A in case where train is traveling to
opposite direction. Only in case of DRX cycle 160 ms there is significant
increase in time-of-outage particularly with 2 RRH beams. Beam management
becomes more challenging with long DRX and scaling factor 8.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.3-3 Time-of-outage per call and time-of-outage duration due
to low SINR
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.3-4 shows inter-cell mobility failure rate (RLF + HOF
percentage of all handover and failure events). There are no failures in
Scenario-B except with DRX 160 ms and train traveling to opposite direction
where about 2-8 % failure rate is observed. This is very significantly lower
rate of failures than in the corresponding Scenario-A case.
{width="3.2933639545056868in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.3-4 Mobility failure rate
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.3-5 shows distribution of raw SINR values taken from the CQI
measurements and it is observed that SINR level is high and clearly sufficient
to support always high mobility performance in all cases except DRX 160 ms and
train traveling to opposite direction. It is also observed than without DRX
and DRX 40 ms there is clear gain in SINR from having 2 beams per RRH compared
to 1 beam per RRH, but when longer DRX is applied the gain is no longer
observed. This is caused by the delays in selecting optimal beams with longer
DRX.
{width="3.3289490376202973in"
height="1.968503937007874in"}{width="3.3289490376202973in"
height="1.968503937007874in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.3-5 SINR distributions
###### 6.3.4.1.1.4 Uni-directional Scenario-B with DPS
This section shows system level simulation mobility performance results for
uni-directional Scenario-B with DPS. Figure 6.3.4.1.1.4-1 shows successful
beam switch rate per CPE per second and ping-pong rate as percentage of ping-
pong beam switches per all beam switches. It is observed that there are
clearly more beam switches with 2 beams per RRH than 1 beam per RRH. However,
beam ping-pongs are less common in case of 2 beams per RRH. As observed in
previous scenarios beam switch and ping-pong rates gradually decrease when DRX
in used.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.4-1 Beam switch and beam ping-pong rates
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.4-2 shows time-of-outage percentage per call (existence of
CPE in the simulation) and average time-of-outage duration due to low SINR
(below -8 dB) conditions. It is observed that time-of-outage rates are very
low without DRX and DRX up to 80 ms. Particularly in cases where train is
traveling to opposite direction than RRHs are pointing to the time-of-outage
rates increase when DRX cycle 160 ms is applied.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.4-2 Time-of-outage per call and time-of-outage duration due
to low SINR
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.4-3 shows beam failure indication rate as percentage of BFIs
per beam switches. It is observed that failure indications only happen in
significant rate with DRX 160 ms and when train is traveling to opposite
direction. Also, in this case the failure rate is lower than in Scenario-A.
{width="3.2933639545056868in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.4-3 Beam failure indication rate
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.4-4 shows distribution of raw SINR values taken from the CQI
measurements and it is observed that SINR level is high and clearly sufficient
to support high mobility performance except it the cases with DRX 160 ms and
train traveling to opposite direction. Also, DRX 80 ms causes some significant
degradation in SINR in the opposite direction, but as observed from failure
rates it does not cause high number of problems.
{width="3.173636264216973in"
height="1.968503937007874in"}{width="3.173636264216973in"
height="1.968503937007874in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.4-4 SINR distributions
###### 6.3.4.1.1.5 Bi-directional Scenario-B without DPS
This section shows system level simulation mobility performance results for
bi-directional Scenario-B without DPS. Figure 6.3.4.1.1.5-1 shows successful
handover rate per CPE per second and ping-pong rate as percentage of ping-pong
handovers per all handovers. It is observed that general levels of handover
and ping-pong rates are clearly higher in bi-directional scenario than in uni-
directional scenario. Uni-directional Scenario-B has maximum of about 0.2
HO/CPE/s and bi-directional has over 0.8 HO/CPE/s. Ping-pongs are much more
common even with DRX in bi-directional scenario.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.5-1 Handover and ping-pong handover rates
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.5-2 shows average time-of-stay in cell (RRH). It is observed
that time-of-stay is significantly affected by DRX cycle and the number of
beams per RRH. Generally, time-of-stay times in bi-directional scenario are
about half of the times or lower in comparison to uni-directional scenario.
{width="3.2933639545056868in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.5-2 Time-of-stay in cell
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.5-3 shows time-of-outage percentage per call (existence of
CPE in the simulation) and average time-of-outage duration due to low SINR
(below -8 dB) conditions. It is observed that time-of-outage percentage per
call is higher in bi-directional scenario than in uni-directional scenario
mainly due to increased handovers. However, also in bi-directional Scenario-B
clearly increased outage is only seen when DRX cycle is set to 160 ms.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.5-3 Time-of-outage per call and time-of-outage duration due
to low SINR
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.5-4 shows inter-cell mobility failure rate (RLF + HOF
percentage of all handover and failure events). It is observed that
significant number of failures happen only with DRX cycle 160 ms.
{width="3.2933639545056868in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.5-4 Mobility failure rate
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.5-5 shows distribution of raw SINR values taken from the CQI
measurements and it is observed that SINR level is high and clearly sufficient
to support always high mobility performance in all cases except DRX 160 ms. It
is also observed than without DRX and DRX 40 ms there is clear gain in SINR
from having 2 beams per RRH compared to 1 beam per RRH, but when longer DRX is
applied the gain is no longer observed. This is caused by the delays in
selecting optimal beams with longer DRX. It is noted that SINR level in low
SINR percentiles is lower in bi-directional scenario than uni-directional
Scenario-B. Possible reasons for this include using multi-panel UE assumption
1 in bi-directional scenario where two panels per CPE are used. With this
assumption only one panel can be activated at the time and used for
measurements causing some additional delays in mobility and beam management.
{width="3.328950131233596in"
height="1.968503937007874in"}{width="3.328950131233596in"
height="1.968503937007874in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.5-5 SINR distributions
###### 6.3.4.1.1.6 Bi-directional Scenario-B with DPS
This section shows system level simulation mobility performance results for
bi-directional Scenario-B with DPS. Figure 6.3.4.1.1.6-1 shows successful beam
switch rate per CPE per second and ping-pong rate as percentage of ping-pong
beam switches per all beam switches. It is observed that DRX cycle and the
number of beams per RRH have significant impact on beam switch rate by
decreasing rate when DRX cycle increases. There are more beam switches with 2
beams per RRH than 1 beam per RRH as would be expected in DPS scenario.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.6-1 Beam switch and beam ping-pong rates
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.6-2 shows time-of-outage percentage per call (existence of
CPE in the simulation) and average time-of-outage duration due to low SINR
(below -8 dB) conditions. It is observed that the outage percentage per call
is lower in DPS scenario than without DPS. This is caused by lower outage time
in beam switch than handover. Only with DRX 160 ms the outage rate
significantly increases from the level without DRX. This can be caused by less
optimal beam selection.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.6-2 Time-of-outage per call and time-of-outage duration due
to low SINR
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.6-3 shows beam failure indication rate as percentage of BFIs
per beam switches. Beam failure indication are only observed with DRX with
generally more problems in the case with 1 beam per RRH.
{width="3.2933639545056868in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.6-3 Beam failure indication rate
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.6-4 shows distribution of raw SINR values taken from the CQI
measurements and it is observed that SINR level is high and clearly sufficient
to support high mobility performance in the most cases. It is also observed
that 2 beams per RRH only bring gain in cases where DRX cycle is lower than 80
ms. There is loss when the highest DRX cycle is used due to the least optimal
beam management when longest delays are observed.
{width="3.173636264216973in"
height="1.968503937007874in"}{width="3.173636264216973in"
height="1.968503937007874in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.6-4 SINR distributions
###### 6.3.4.1.1.7 Bi-directional Scenario-A without DPS
This section shows system-level mobility performance simulation results for
bi-directional Scenario-A without DPS with legacy RRM requirements. In
addition to other parameters varied in the rest of the scenarios, the results
with both multi-panel assumption 1 (MPUEAssumption:as1) and 3
(MPUEAssumption:as3) are shown here. With assumption 1, only one panel at a
time can perform measurements and with assumption 3 both panels can measure at
the same time.
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.7-1 shows handover rate per CPE per second and ping-pong
handover rate relative to all handovers. It is observed that assumption 3
increases the number of handovers, but not always the number of ping-pongs in
this scenario. When measuring with both panels at the same time the
measurements are more up to date, which may reduce back-and-forth ping-pong
handovers. As seen in other scenarios, longer DRX cycles significantly reduce
the number of handovers.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.7-1 Handover and ping-pong handover rates
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.7-2 shows average time-of-stay in a cell. In bi-directional
scenario, time-of-stay is very short without DRX due to frequent handovers.
The time-of-stay is generally longer with assumption 1 due to more delays in
following the best radio conditions, causing less handover to occur. Also,
longer DRX cycles increase the average time-of-stay in a cell.
{width="3.2933639545056868in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.7-2 Time-of-stay in cell
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.7-3 shows time-of-outage statistics for both the total
percentage of outage conditions relative to call length and average durations
of outage due to low SINR level. With legacy requirements, the time-of-outage
is very significant even without DRX and when multi-panel UE assumption 1 is
configured. This is caused by the long delays due to legacy scaling factor 8
particularly when train is traveling towards the serving beam and quickly
passing through the RRH location.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
**Figure 6.3.4.1.1.7-3 Time-of-outage per call and time-of-outage duration due
to low SINR**
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.7-4 shows mobility failure rates, and it behaves in the
similar way as time-of-outage. The failure rate is high particularly with DRX,
but also without DRX in cases where assumption 1 is configured.
{width="3.2933639545056868in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.7-4 Mobility failure rate
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.7-5 shows SINR distributions for all simulated DRX cycles and
multi-panel assumptions. It is observed that with legacy requirements only
cases without DRX can provide fast enough mobility procedures to maintain good
SINR level. However, with assumption 1, also the case without DRX has
significantly degraded SINR for over 5% of the samples.
{width="4.194342738407699in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
**Figure 6.3.4.1.1.7-5 SINR distributions**
###### 6.3.4.1.1.8 Bi-directional Scenario-A with DPS
This section shows system-level mobility performance simulation results for
bi-directional Scenario-A with DPS with legacy requirements.
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.8-1 shows beam switch and beam ping-pong rates. The results
show that the beam switch rate is significantly higher with multi-panel
assumption 3, which is inline with the results seen in 6.3.4.1.1.7 for
handovers in non-DPS case. Also, longer DRX cycles decrease the number of beam
switches. Ping-pong rates are much more variant depending on DRX cycle where
multi-panel assumptions are rather equal except in DRX 80 ms case, where there
is higher ping-pong rate with assumption 3.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.397915573053368in"
height="2.559055118110236in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.8-1 Beam switch and beam ping-pong rates
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.8-2 shows time-of-outage statistics with DPS. The results
show that the rates generally increase with longer DRX but are lower than in
non-DPS case in 6.3.4.1.1.7. Non-DRX case does not cause significant outages
with either assumption 1 or 3. Due to high delays caused by legacy
requirements and DRX, the time-of-outage can be high with both multi-panel
assumptions when the longest DRX cycle is used.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.8-2 Time-of-outage per call and time-of-outage duration due
to low SINR
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.8-3 shows beam failure indication rates in DPS scenario. It
is observed that beam failures are either not observed at all or almost zero
without DRX depending on the multi-panel assumption. However, when DRX cycle
increases the failure indication rates become high with both assumptions.
{width="3.2933639545056868in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.8-3 Beam failure indication rate
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.8-4 shows SINR distributions for all simulated DRX cycles and
multi-panel assumptions. It is observed that SINR significantly degrades when
mobility delays are increased with DRX cycles. The SINR difference between
multi-panel assumptions is not so clear as in non-DPS case in 6.3.4.1.1.7.
Assumption 3 gives gain in median and peak percentiles of the CDF particularly
without DRX, but assumption 1 can be better in low percentiles of the CDF.
{width="3.998620953630796in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.1.8-4 SINR distributions
##### 6.3.4.1.2 Enhanced RRM requirement mobility performance
In the sub-sections below the mobility performance results in HST FR2
deployments with enhanced requirements selected according to the number of Rx
beams are presented, i.e., with scaling factors 2 for Scenario-A and 6 for
Scenario-B.
In Table 6.3.4.1.2-1, we are introducing the parameters that are different in
between the baseline legacy FR2 RRM requirements (assuming scaling factor 8)
and enhanced HST FR2 requirements.
Table 6.3.4.1.2-1: Enhanced simulation assumptions for mobility performance
evaluation.
+-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +===============================+=====================================+ | Number of beams per CPE panel | Enhanced requirements: | | | | | | > Uni-directional Scenario-A: | | | | | | - 1 Rx beam (scaling factor 2 is | | | assumed for RRC measurements, L1 | | | measurements and cell detection | | | delays in simulations) | | | | | | - Rx beam is oriented parallel to | | | the railway track towards the | | | serving Tx beam. | | | | | | Uni-directional Scenario-B: | | | | | | - 6 Rx beams (scaling factor 6 is | | | assumed for RRC measurements, L1 | | | measurements and cell detection | | | delays in simulations) | | | | | | - Rx beam orientations (90 degrees | | | is boresight of antenna panel): 65, | | | 75, 85, 95, 105, 115 degrees (only | | | first three are usable for RRHs | | | north from track to be comparable | | | with bi-directional case) | | | | | | Bi-directional Scenario-B: | | | | | | - 3 Rx beams (scaling factor 6 is | | | assumed for RRC measurements, L1 | | | measurements and cell detection | | | delays in simulations) | | | | | | - Rx beam orientations (90 degrees | | | is boresight of antenna panel): 65, | | | 75, 85 degrees | | | | | | Bi-directional Scenario-A: | | | | | | - 1 Rx beam per panel (scaling | | | factor 2 is assumed for RRC | | | measurements, L1 measurements and | | | cell detection delays in | | | simulations) | | | | | | - Two Rx beams of CPE are oriented | | | parallel to the railway in opposite | | | directions | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | DRX | DRX disabled (DRX 0), 40, 80, 160 | | | ms cycles | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | RRC measurement period | Scaling factor N=2: | | | | | L1 RSRP measurement period | > DRX 0: 120 ms | | | > | | | > DRX 40: 360 ms | | | > | | | > DRX 80: 720 ms | | | > | | | > DRX 160: 1440 ms | | | | | | Scaling factor N = 6: | | | | | | > DRX 0: 360 ms | | | > | | | > DRX 40: 1080 ms | | | > | | | > DRX 80: 2160 ms | | | > | | | > DRX 160: 4320 ms | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | Cell detection delay | Scaling factor N=2: | | | | | (T~PSS/SSS_sync_intra~) | > DRX 0: 600 ms | | | > | | | > DRX 40: 600 ms | | | > | | | > DRX 80: 720 ms | | | > | | | > DRX 160: 1440 ms | | | | | | Scaling factor N = 6: | | | | | | > DRX 0: 600 ms | | | > | | | > DRX 40: 1080 ms | | | > | | | > DRX 80: 2160 ms | | | > | | | > DRX 160: 4320 ms | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | RLM assumptions | Scaling factor N=2: | | | | | | > T~Evaluate_out_CSI-RS~: 600, | | | > 3600, 720, 14400 ms (DRX 0, 40, | | | > 80, 160) | | | | | | Scaling factor N = 6: | | | | | | > T~Evaluate_out_CSI-RS~: 600, | | | > 3600, 720, 14400 ms (DRX 0, 40, | | | > 80, 160) | | | | | | N310: 2 samples | | | | | | N311: 2 samples | | | | | | Q~out~ threshold SINR: -8 dB | | | | | | Q~in~ threshold SINR: -6 dB | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | BFD assumptions | Scaling factor N=2: | | | | | | > T~Evaluate_BFD_CSI-RS~: 300, | | | > 1800, 3600, 7200 ms (DRX 0, 40, | | | > 80, 160) | | | | | | Scaling factor N = 6: | | | | | | > T~Evaluate_BFD_CSI-RS~: 300, | | | > 1800, 3600, 7200 ms (DRX 0, 40, | | | > 80, 160) | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | PDCCH model | Non-ideal PDCCH model with AL16 | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+
###### 6.3.4.1.2.1 Uni-directional Scenario-A without DPS
This section shows system level simulation mobility performance results for
uni-directional Scenario-A without DPS for both the case when train is
traveling into same direction (Dir:Same in legends) as RRH beam are pointing
to and into opposite direction (Dir:Opposite in legends). Figure 6.3.4.1.2.1-1
shows successful handover rate per CPE per second and ping-pong rate as
percentage of ping-pong handovers per all handovers. Ping-pong handover is
observed when two handovers happen back and forth between two same cells in
one second. It is observed that handover and ping-pong rates are the highest
without DRX and gradually decrease when DRX cycle is increased. Significant
drop in successful handovers is observed when train travels to opposite
direction than RRH beams are pointed to and DRX cycle is increased to 160 ms.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.1-1 Handover and ping-pong handover rates
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.1-2 shows average time-of-stay in cell (RRH). It is observed
that without DRX the time-of-stay in RRH is significantly lower than the time
train with 350 km/h speed takes to travel the distance of one Ds of 700 meters
(about 7.2 seconds). This result is due to ping-pongs observed in Figure
6.3.4.1.2.1-1. With DRX cycles 80-160 ms the time-of-stay increases to about 7
seconds.
{width="3.2933639545056868in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.1-2 Time-of-stay in cell
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.1-3 shows time-of-outage percentage per call (existence of
CPE in the simulation) and average time-of-outage duration due to low SINR
(below -8 dB) conditions. Time-of-outage percentage per call includes all the
sources of outage combined. This consists of handover execution time, the time
it takes to perform radio link failure related procedures from observing radio
link problem until re-establishment of connection and the time below -8 dB
SINR conditions are observed in the simulation even prior to radio link
problem can be detected based on filtering. It is observed from the results
that significant outage is detected only in case train travels to opposite
direction than RRHs are pointing to and DRX cycles are 80 ms or longer.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.1-3 Time-of-outage per call and time-of-outage duration due
to low SINR
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.1-4 shows inter-cell mobility failure rate (RLF + HOF
percentage of all handover and failure events). It is seen that similarly as
significant time-of-outage rates are observed only scenario where train
travels to opposite direction than RRHs are pointing to causes mobility
failures among the simulated DRX cycles. DRX 80 ms causes about 7% failure
rate and DRX 160 ms causes very significant problems with over 60% failure
rate in this scenario. No failures are observed when train is traveling into
same direct as RRH beams are pointing to.
{width="3.2933639545056868in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.1-4 Mobility failure rate
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.1-5 shows distribution of raw SINR values taken from the CQI
measurements and it is observed that SINR level is high and clearly sufficient
to support high mobility performance except it the cases with DRX 80-160 ms
and train traveling to opposite direction.
{width="4.194477252843394in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.1-5 SINR distributions
###### 6.3.4.1.2.2 Uni-directional Scenario-A with DPS
This section shows system level simulation mobility performance results for
uni-directional Scenario-A with DPS. Some of the observed statistics are of
different type than in the section without DPS. Figure 6.3.4.1.2.2-1 shows
successful beam switch rate per CPE per second and ping-pong rate as
percentage of ping-pong beam switches per all beam switches. Beam ping-pong is
observed when two beam switches happen back and forth between two same beams
in one second. Practically in Scenario-A with just one Tx beam per RRH this
means ping-pongs between RRHs. In DPS case the same trend is observed in beam
switches as with handovers in non-DPS case, without DRX the rates are the
highest and gradually rates decrease when longer DRX cycles are used. The
differences between the rates in train travel direction are rather low.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.2-1 Beam switch and beam ping-pong rates
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.2-2 shows time-of-outage percentage per call (existence of
CPE in the simulation) and average time-of-outage duration due to low SINR
(below -8 dB) conditions. Similar trend is observed here as without DPS that
the time-of-outage rates are very low when train is traveling to the same
direction as RRH beams are pointing to and none of the outages are caused by
low SINR. In the opposite direction time-of-outage starts to increase
significantly when DRX cycles are 80 ms or longer. However, time-of-outage is
significantly lower than without DPS due to lower delay when switching to
different RRH location.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.2-2 Time-of-outage per call and time-of-outage duration due
to low SINR
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.2-3 shows beam failure indication rate as percentage of BFIs
per beam switches. Similar trend is observed without DPS that no failures
happen among the studied DRX cycles when train is traveling to same direction
as RRH beams are pointing to. Only in case of DRX cycle 80 ms or more failures
are observed with train traveling to opposite direction.
{width="3.2933639545056868in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.2-3 Beam failure indication rate
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.2-4 shows distribution of raw SINR values taken from the CQI
measurements and it is observed that SINR level is high and clearly sufficient
to support high mobility performance except in the cases with DRX 80-160 ms
and train traveling to opposite direction. However, the amount of low SINR
samples below 0 dB are less common even in these cases when DPS is used.
{width="3.9987817147856517in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.2-4 SINR distributions
###### 6.3.4.1.2.3 Uni-directional Scenario-B without DPS
This section shows system level simulation mobility performance results for
uni-directional Scenario-B without DPS. Also, comparison between 1 and 2 beams
per RRH is included in this section. Figure 6.3.4.1.2.3-1 shows successful
handover rate per CPE per second and ping-pong rate as percentage of ping-pong
handovers per all handovers. It is observed that without DRX the handover rate
is the highest and it drops when DRX cycle 40 ms is used but remains at
approximately same level with all simulated DRX cycles. This indicates that
there is more time to perform handover in Scenario-B than in Scenario-A
particularly when comparing the cases when train is traveling to opposite
direction than the RRH beams are pointing to. It is also observed that without
DRX there are higher handover and ping-pong rates with 1 beam per RRH than 2
beams per RRH.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.3-1 Handover and ping-pong handover rates
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.3-2 shows average time-of-stay in cell (RRH). It is observed
that without DRX the time-of-stay in RRH is significantly lower than the time
train with 350 km/h speed takes to travel the distance of one Ds of 700 meters
(about 7.2 seconds) particularly with 1 Tx beam per RRH. This result is due to
ping-pongs observed in Figure 6.3.4.1.2.3-1 in similar way as in Scenario A.
Time-of-stay is relatively close with all studied DRX cycles in this scenario.
{width="3.2933639545056868in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.3-2 Time-of-stay in cell
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.3-3 shows time-of-outage percentage per call (existence of
CPE in the simulation) and average time-of-outage duration due to low SINR
(below -8 dB) conditions. It is observed that in Scenario-B the outage rates
are very low compared to Scenario-A in case where train is traveling to
opposite direction.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.3-3 Time-of-outage per call and time-of-outage duration due
to low SINR
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.3-4 shows inter-cell mobility failure rate (RLF + HOF
percentage of all handover and failure events). There are no failures in
Scenario-B except with DRX 160 ms, train traveling to opposite direction and 2
beams per RRH where about 1 % failure rate is observed. This is very
significantly lower rate of failures than in the corresponding Scenario-A
case.
{width="3.2933639545056868in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.3-4 Mobility failure rate
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.3-5 shows distribution of raw SINR values taken from the CQI
measurements and it is observed that SINR level is high and clearly sufficient
to support always high mobility performance in all cases except DRX 160 ms and
train traveling to opposite direction. It is also observed than without DRX
and DRX 40 ms there is clear gain in SINR from having 2 beams per RRH compared
to 1 beam per RRH, but when longer DRX is applied the gain is no longer
observed. This is caused by the delays in selecting optimal beams for longer
DRX.
{width="3.3289490376202973in"
height="1.968503937007874in"}{width="3.3289490376202973in"
height="1.968503937007874in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.3-5 SINR distributions
###### 6.3.4.1.2.4 Uni-directional Scenario-B with DPS
This section shows system level simulation mobility performance results for
uni-directional Scenario-B with DPS. Figure 6.3.4.1.2.4-1 shows successful
beam switch rate per CPE per second and ping-pong rate as percentage of ping-
pong beam switches per all beam switches. It is observed that there are
clearly more beam switches with 2 beams per RRH than 1 beam per RRH. However,
beam ping-pongs are less common is case of 2 beams per RRH. As observed in
previous scenarios beam switch and ping-pong rates gradually decrease when DRX
in used.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.4-1 Beam switch and beam ping-pong rates
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.4-2 shows time-of-outage percentage per call (existence of
CPE in the simulation) and average time-of-outage duration due to low SINR
(below -8 dB) conditions. It is observed that time-of-outage rates are very
low without DRX and DRX up to 80 ms. Particularly in cases where train is
traveling to opposite direction than RRHs are pointing to the time-of-outage
rates increase when DRX cycle 160 ms is applied.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.4-2 Time-of-outage per call and time-of-outage duration due
to low SINR
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.4-3 shows beam failure indication rate as percentage of BFIs
per beam switches. It is observed that failure indications only happen with
DRX 160 ms and when train is traveling to opposite direction. Also, in this
case the failure rate is lower than in Scenario-A.
{width="3.2933639545056868in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.4-3 Beam failure indication rate
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.4-4 shows distribution of raw SINR values taken from the CQI
measurements and it is observed that SINR level is high and clearly sufficient
to support high mobility performance except it the cases with DRX 160 ms and
train traveling to opposite direction.
{width="3.108147419072616in"
height="1.968503937007874in"}{width="3.108147419072616in"
height="1.968503937007874in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.4-4 SINR distributions
###### 6.3.4.1.2.5 Bi-directional Scenario-B without DPS
This section shows system level simulation mobility performance results for
bi-directional Scenario-B without DPS. Figure 6.3.4.1.2.5-1 shows successful
handover rate per CPE per second and ping-pong rate as percentage of ping-pong
handovers per all handovers. It is observed that general levels of handover
and ping-pong rates are clearly higher in bi-directional scenario than in uni-
directional scenario. Uni-directional Scenario-B as maximum of about 0.2
HO/CPE/s and bi-directional has almost 0.7 HO/CPE/s. Ping-pongs are much more
common even with DRX in bi-directional scenario.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.5-1 Handover and ping-pong handover rates
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.5-2 shows average time-of-stay in cell (RRH). It is observed
that time-of-stay is significantly affected by DRX cycle and the number of
beams per RRH. Generally, time-of-stay times in bi-directional scenario are
about half of the times or lower in comparison to uni-directional scenario.
{width="3.2933639545056868in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.5-2 Time-of-stay in cell
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.5-3 shows time-of-outage percentage per call (existence of
CPE in the simulation) and average time-of-outage duration due to low SINR
(below -8 dB) conditions. It is observed that time-of-outage percentage per
call is higher in bi-directional scenario than in uni-directional scenario
mainly due to increased handovers. However, also in bi-directional Scenario-B
clearly increased outage is only seen when DRX cycle is set to 160 ms.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.5-3 Time-of-outage per call and time-of-outage duration due
to low SINR
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.5-4 shows inter-cell mobility failure rate (RLF + HOF
percentage of all handover and failure events). It is observed that
significant number of failures happen only with DRX cycle 160 ms.
{width="3.2933639545056868in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.5-4 Mobility failure rate
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.5-5 shows distribution of raw SINR values taken from the CQI
measurements and it is observed that SINR level is high and clearly sufficient
to support always high mobility performance in all cases except DRX 160 ms. It
is also observed than without DRX and DRX 40 ms there is clear gain in SINR
from having 2 beams per RRH compared to 1 beam per RRH, but when longer DRX is
applied the gain is no longer observed. This is caused by the delays in
selecting optimal beams with longer DRX. It is noted that SINR level in low
SINR percentiles is lower in bi-directional scenario than uni-directional
Scenario-B. Possible reasons for this include using multi-panel UE assumption
1 in bi-directional scenario where two panels per CPE are used. With this
assumption only one panel can be activated at the time and used for
measurements causing some additional delays in mobility and beam management.
{width="3.328950131233596in"
height="1.968503937007874in"}{width="3.328950131233596in"
height="1.968503937007874in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.5-5 SINR distributions
###### 6.3.4.1.2.6 Bi-directional Scenario-B with DPS
This section shows system level simulation mobility performance results for
bi-directional Scenario-B with DPS. Figure 6.3.4.1.2.6-1 shows successful beam
switch rate per CPE per second and ping-pong rate as percentage of ping-pong
beam switches per all beam switches. It is observed that DRX cycle and the
number of beams per RRH have significant impact on beam switch rate by
decreasing rate when DRX cycle increases. There are more beam switches with 2
beams per RRH than 1 beam per RRH as would be expected in DPS scenario.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.6-1 Beam switch and beam ping-pong rates
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.6-2 shows time-of-outage percentage per call (existence of
CPE in the simulation) and average time-of-outage duration due to low SINR
(below -8 dB) conditions. It is observed that the outage percentage per call
is lower in DPS scenario than without DPS. This is caused by lower outage time
in beam switch than handover. Only with DRX 160 ms the outage rate
significantly increases from the level without DRX. This can be caused by less
optimal beam selection.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.6-2 Time-of-outage per call and time-of-outage duration due
to low SINR
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.6-3 shows beam failure indication rate as percentage of BFIs
per beam switches. Only in case of DRX 160 ms a significant rate of failures
is observed but remaining in low rate. This indicates good performance in beam
management with DPS in bi-directional Scenario-B.
{width="3.2933639545056868in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.6-3 Beam failure indication rate
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.6-4 shows distribution of raw SINR values taken from the CQI
measurements and it is observed that SINR level is high and clearly sufficient
to support high mobility performance in the most cases. It is also observed
that 2 beams per RRH only bring gain in cases where DRX cycle is lower than
160 ms. There is loss when the highest DRX cycle is used due to the least
optimal beam management when longest delays are observed.
{width="3.173636264216973in"
height="1.968503937007874in"}{width="3.173636264216973in"
height="1.968503937007874in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.6-4 SINR distributions
###### 6.3.4.1.2.7 Bi-directional Scenario-A without DPS
This section shows system level mobility performance simulation results for
bi-directional Scenario-A without DPS with enhanced RRM requirements. In
addition to other parameters varied in the rest of the scenario the results
with both multi-panel assumption 1 (MPUEAssumption:as1) and 3
(MPUEAssumption:as3) are shown here. With assumption 1, only one panel at a
time can perform measurements and with assumption 3 both panels can
measurement at the same time.
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.7-1 shows handover rate per CPE per second and ping-pong
handover rate. It is observed that assumption 3 increases the number of
handovers, but not the number of ping-pongs in this scenario. When measuring
with both panels at the same time, the measurements are more up to date, which
may reduce back-and-forth ping-pong handovers. As it can be seen in other
scenarios, longer DRX cycles significantly reduce the number of handovers.
Enhanced requirements increase the number of handovers compared to legacy
requirements due to lower mobility delays from measurements.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
**Figure 6.3.4.1.2.7-1 Handover and ping-pong handover rates**
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.7-2 shows average time-of-stay in a cell. In bi-directional
scenario, time-of-stay is very short without DRX due to frequent handovers.
The time-of-stay increases with longer DRX cycles. The time-of-stay is
generally shorter with enhanced requirements due to lower mobility delays
compared to legacy requirements.
{width="3.2933639545056868in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.7-2 Time-of-stay in cell
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.7-3 shows time-of-outage statistics for both the total
percentage of outage conditions relative to call length and average durations
of outage due to low SINR level. Even with enhanced requirements the time-of-
outage is very significant when multi-panel UE assumption 1 is configured and
DRX is used. With longest DRX cycle, also outage with assumption 3 is high.
However, the outage rates are much lower with these enhanced requirements than
the legacy requirements.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
**Figure 6.3.4.1.2.7-3 Time-of-outage per call and time-of-outage duration due
to low SINR**
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.7-4 shows mobility failure rates, and it is observed that in
the similar way as time-of-outage, the failure rate is high particularly with
DRX, but also without DRX in cases where assumption 1 is configured. However,
the failure rates are much lower with these enhanced requirements than the
legacy requirements.
{width="3.2933639545056868in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
**Figure 6.3.4.1.2.7-4 Mobility failure rate**
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.7-5 shows SINR distributions for all simulated DRX cycles and
multi-panel assumptions. It is observed that with enhanced requirements DRX
cycles up to 80 ms with multi-panel assumption 3 can provide fast enough
mobility procedures to maintain a good SINR level. Also, multi-panel
assumption 1 can provide good SINR without DRX in over 95% of the samples.
Higher DRX cycles have significantly degraded SINRs with assumption 1.
{width="4.194342738407699in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
**Figure 6.3.4.1.2.7-5 SINR distributions**
###### 6.3.4.1.2.8 Bi-directional Scenario-A with DPS
This section shows system level mobility performance simulation results for
bi-directional Scenario-A with DPS with enhanced RRM requirements.
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.8-1 shows beam switch and beam ping-pong rates. The results
show that the beam switch rate is significantly higher with multi-panel
assumption 3, except in the case without DRX where the numbers are rather
equal. Also, longer DRX cycles decrease the number of beam switches. The beam
switch rate is generally higher with enhanced requirements compared to legacy
requirements. Ping-pong rates are quite equal between the multi-panel
assumptions.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.8-1 Beam switch and beam ping-pong rates
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.8-2 shows time-of-outage statistics with DPS. The results
show generally very low outage rate with enhanced requirements up to DRX cycle
80 ms.
{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}{width="3.2933639545056868in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.8-2 Time-of-outage per call and time-of-outage duration due
to low SINR
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.8-3 shows beam failure indication rate with enhanced
requirements. The rate is very low or zero up to DRX cycle 80 ms with both
multi-panel assumptions-
{width="3.2933639545056868in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.8-3 Beam failure indication rate
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.8-4 shows SINR distributions for all simulated DRX cycles and
multi-panel assumptions with enhanced requirements. It is observed that SINR
levels are generally good up to DRX cycle 80 ms and the SINRs with the longest
DRX cycle 160 ms are much less degraded than in the scenario with legacy
requirements. The SINR difference between multi-panel assumptions is not so
clear as in non-DPS case in 6.3.4.1.2.7. Assumption 3 gives gain in median and
peak percentiles of the CDF particularly without DRX, but assumption 1 can be
better in low percentiles.
{width="3.998620953630796in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.2.8-4 SINR distributions
##### 6.3.4.1.3 Conclusions on mobility performance
In the previous sections (6.3.4.1.1.1, 6.3.4.1.1.2, 6.3.4.1.2.1, 6.3.4.1.2.2),
it was demonstrated that HST FR2 Scenario-A deployment (Figure 6.3.4.1.3-1)
where the train is travelling in the direction opposite to serving beam
orientation may experience mobility challenges when DRX cycle of 40 ms is used
with legacy requirements. This happens due to the very fast degradation of
serving RRH signal (Figure 6.3.4.1.3-2). However, there is a significant
improvement in Scenario-A from enhanced requirements compared to legacy
requirements. With enhanced requirements, mobility robustness is sufficient
when DRX cycle of 40 ms is used, but problems can be observed when DRX cycle
is increased to 80 ms when the train is travelling in the direction opposite
to serving beam orientation.
Figure 6.3.4.1.3-1: A scheme of HST FR2 opposite uni-directional Scenario-A.
{width="3.7666666666666666in" height="2.033279746281715in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.3-2: Propagation map of the serving RRH, antenna model without
back lobe.
The RSRP traces of the serving (RRH1) and target (RRH2) RRHs are shown in
Figure 6.3.4.1.3-3 with at different zoom levels. One can observe that the
signal level from target RRH get high enough already much earlier than
handover happens. However, the source RRH signal drops drastically near the
RRH location. In this traced case, the handover happens early enough to
transmit control messages even with realistic PDCCH model. It is also obvious
that even slight delays in handover initiation will cause source RRH to drop
to unreachable levels (e.g., RSRP below -120 dBm).
{width="3.1555555555555554in" height="2.091178915135608in"}
{width="3.1333333333333333in" height="2.110964566929134in"}
Figure 6.3.4.1.3-3: RSRP traces of serving and target RRHs at two different
scales. Vertical lines show A3 trigger coordinate, HO complete, and source RRH
location.
Based on the simulation results and analysis presented above we can conclude
that DRX cycle of 80ms shall be used with precautions in uni-directional
Scenario-A.
In sections (6.3.4.1.1.3, 6.3.4.1.1.4, 6.3.4.1.1.5, 6.3.4.1.1.6, 6.3.4.1.2.3,
6.3.4.1.2.4, 6.3.4.1.2.5, 6.3.4.1.2.6) it was demonstrated that Scenario-B
mobility performance with enhanced RRM requirements in both uni-directional
and bi-directional scenarios is sufficient with DRX cycles up to 80 ms.
Compared to legacy RRM requirements the mobility robustness measured by
mobility failure and time-of-outage rates is significantly improved with
enhanced RRM requirements also in Scenario-B.
In sections 6.3.4.1.1.7, 6.3.4.1.1.8, 6.3.4.1.2.7, 6.3.4.1.2.8, it was shown
that Scenario-A with bi-directional deployment needs similar precautions for
DRX cycle of 80 ms as uni-directional scenario. Also, bi-directional scenario
mobility robustness is significantly improved by the enhanced RRM requirements
compared to legacy RRM requirements. Multi-panel UE measurement assumption was
also shown to have significant impact to mobility robustness particularly in
non-DPS scenario. Having UE capability to measure both directions at the same
time can benefit mobility robustness.
### 6.3.5 Receive time difference
Not applicable to FR2 HST
### 6.3.6 Maximum supported Doppler frequency
Carrier frequency for Doppler frequency calculation
\- 30GHz.
### 6.3.7 Maximum supported Speed
Companies' observation on Maximum Speed feasibility:
\- It is feasible to support maximum speed with 350km/h for downlink with TRS
(4 symbol interval) for frequency offset tracking under unidirectional RRH
deployment with 120KHz SCS.
\- It is feasible to support maximum speed with 350km/h for downlink with TRS
(4 symbol interval) +SSB for frequency offset tracking under unidirectional
and bi-directional RRH deployment with 120KHz SCS.
\- It is feasible to support maximum speed with 350km/h for downlink with TRS
(4 symbol interval) + PTRS (L=1) for frequency offset tracking under bi-
directional RRH deployment with 120KHz SCS.
\- It is feasible to support maximum speed with 350km/h for downlink with PTRS
or DMRS(1+1+1) + PTRS (L=1,K=2) configuration used for frequency offset
tracking under single tap propagation conditions with 120KHz SCS.
Configure PTRS during the PDSCH demodulation test.
RS as baseline for frequency offset tracking to support 350km/h
\- multiple options under discussion.
DMRS configuration for PDSCH demodulation requirement
\- Option 1: 1 DMRS; and
\- Option 2: 1+1+1 DMRS.
### 6.3.8 Beam dwelling time
#### 6.3.8.1 Simulation results
The system simulation assumptions for beam dwelling time are shown in table
6.3.8.1-1. The simulation results of beam dwelling time are obtained from
system-level simulations which were carried out to evaluate legacy RRM
requirements under high-speed train scenarios.
Table 6.3.8.1-1: Simulation assumptions for beam dwelling time
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +==================================+==================================+ | Number of sites (separate gNBs) | 12 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Inter-site distance (ISD, Ds) | 700 m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RRH distance to track (Dmin) | 10 m (Scenario A), 150 m | | | (Scenario B) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RRH height (D_RRH_Height) | 15 m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CPE height (D_CPE_Height) | 5 m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 28 GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Bandwidth | 50 MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Subcarrier spacing | 120 kHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Propagation and channel model | TR 38.901 RMa with LOS only | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RRH TX output power | 31 dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RRH antenna panel | [Mg, Ng, M, N, P] = [1, 1, 8, | | | 8, 2] | | | | | | Panel is pointing towards the | | | track at the x-axis where the | | | next site is situated (ISD away) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RRH antenna panel direction in | Opposite direction (train moves | | relation to train in | east, RRHs pointing west) | | uni-directional deployments | | | | Same direction (train moves | | | east, RRHs pointing east) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SSB beams per RRH | Uni-directional: | | | | | | 1 beam: | | | | | | Pointing into the boresight of | | | the RRH antenna panel | | | | | | 2 beams: | | | | | | One beam is pointing into the | | | boresight and the other beam is | | | pointing 20 degrees towards the | | | track from boresight | | | | | | 4 beams: | | | | | | One beam is pointing into the | | | boresight and the other beams | | | are pointing 20, 40, 60 degrees | | | towards the track from boresight | | | | | | Bi-directional: | | | | | | 1 beam: | | | | | | Pointing into the boresight of | | | the RRH antenna panel | | | | | | 2 beams: | | | | | | One beam is pointing into the | | | boresight and the other beam is | | | pointing towards the track at | | | Ds/2 | | | | | | 4 beams: | | | | | | One beam is pointing into the | | | boresight and the other beams | | | are pointing towards the track | | | at Ds/2, Ds/4, Ds/8 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CPE (Train) speed | 350 km/h | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CPE antenna panel | [Mg, Ng, M, N, P] = [1, 1 or | | | 2, 4, 4, 2] | | | | | | In uni-directional case where | | | RRHs point east CPE has one | | | antenna panel pointing west | | | | | | In bi-directional case CPE has | | | two antenna panels pointing to | | | 180 degrees opposite directions | | | (west-east) | | | | | | MPUE assumption: only one panel | | | can be used at a time for | | | measurements | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of beams per CPE panel | 1 beam (even though it is 1, | | | scaling factor 8 is assumed for | | | RRC measurements, L1 | | | measurements and cell detection | | | delays in simulations) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Traffic | DL Full Buffer | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Inter-cell interference | Only one train with one CPE is | | | simulated meaning there is no | | | inter-cell interference | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DRX | DRX disabled (DRX 0), 40, 80, | | | 160, 256, 320 ms cycles | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SMTC period | 20 ms | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Handover assumptions | Event A3 with SS-RSRP | | | | | | Offset: 3 dB | | | | | | Time-to-trigger: 80 ms | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RRC measurement period | Note: N=8 assumed in scaling | | | | | L1 RSRP measurement period | DRX 0: 480 ms | | | | | | DRX 40: 1440 ms | | | | | | DRX 80: 2880 ms | | | | | | DRX 160: 5760 ms | | | | | | DRX 256: 9216 ms | | | | | | DRX 320: 11520 ms | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Cell detection delay | Note: N = 8 is assumed in | | | scaling | | (T~PSS/SSS_sync_intra~) | | | | DRX 0: 600 ms | | | | | | DRX 40: 1440 ms | | | | | | DRX 80: 2880 ms | | | | | | DRX 160: 5760 ms | | | | | | DRX 256: 9216 ms | | | | | | DRX 320: 11520 ms | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RLM assumptions | Note: N=8 assumed in scaling | | | | | | T~Evaluate_out_CSI-RS~: 600, | | | 3600, 7200, 14400, 23040, 28800 | | | ms (DRX 0, 40, 80, 160, 256, | | | 320) | | | | | | T~Evaluate_in_CSI-RS~: 300, | | | 1800, 3600, 7200, 11520, 14400 | | | ms (DRX 0, 40, 80, 160, 256, | | | 320) | | | | | | N310: 2 samples | | | | | | N311: 2 samples | | | | | | Q~out~ threshold SINR: -8 dB | | | | | | Q~in~ threshold SINR: -6 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BFD assumptions | Note: N=8 assumed in scaling | | | | | | T~Evaluate_BFD_CSI-RS~: 300, | | | 1800, 3600, 7200, 11520, 14400 | | | ms (DRX 0, 40, 80, 160, 256, | | | 320) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Simulation length | 100 seconds (20 drops of 100 | | | seconds simulated, and | | | statistics samples are gathered | | | from all drops) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
The simulation results of beam dwelling time are shown in figures 6.3.8.1-1-3
for unidirectional scenarios with a different number beams transmitted by RRH.
The simulation results of beam dwelling time are shown in figures 6.3.8.1-4-6
for bidirectional scenarios with different number of beams transmitted by RRH.
It is worth noting that the simulation results are the average beam dwelling
time. In the simulation, beam dwelling time is influenced by beam coverage and
beam switching rate (including hysteresis). Beam coverage is discussed in
detail in clause 6.3.8.2, where ideal beam dwelling time is investigated.
In the case of multi-beam operation cases shown in figures 6.3.8.1-2,
6.3.8.1-3, 6.3.8.1-5 and 6.3.8.1-6, it can be observed that the dwelling time
of Beam 0 is the shortest because the coverage of Beam 0 is the smallest.
{width="4.262288932633421in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.8.1-1: Average beam dwelling time with 1 beam per RRH for
unidirectional scenarios
{width="4.275990813648294in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.8.1-2: Average beam dwelling time with 2 beams per RRH for
unidirectional scenarios
{width="4.275990813648294in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.8.1-3: Average beam dwelling time with 4 beams per RRH for
unidirectional scenarios
{width="4.272659667541557in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.8.1-4: Average beam dwelling time with 1 beam per RRH for
bidirectional scenarios
{width="4.275990813648294in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.8.1-5: Average beam dwelling time with 2 beams per RRH for
bidirectional scenarios
{width="4.281996937882765in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure 6.3.8.1-6: Average beam dwelling time with 2 beams per RRH for
bidirectional scenarios
#### 6.3.8.2 Beam coverage analysis
In HST deployment scenarios, the footprint of an RRH beam can be represented
by an ellipse as shown in figure 6.3.8.2-1. It is assumed that UE aboard an
HST is moving with constant velocity $\overrightarrow{v}$ and its trajectory
is a straight line. An RRH is located at the point $G(0,0,h_{\text{RRH}})$ in
which its antenna array boresight for the $k$th beam is oriented towards a
point $P_{k}(D_{\min},y_{k},h)$ which is along the trajectory of UE.
{width="6.522222222222222in" height="4.011111111111111in"}
Figure 6.3.8.2-1: RRH beam footprint
The ellipse centred at $C\left( x_{c},y_{c},z_{c} \right)$ can be expressed as
$\frac{\left\lbrack \left( x - x_{c} \right)\cos\phi_{k} + \left( y - y_{c}
\right)\sin\phi_{k} \right\rbrack}{a^{2}}^{2} + \frac{\left\lbrack \left( y -
y_{c} \right)\cos\phi_{k} - \left( x - x_{c} \right)\sin\phi_{k}
\right\rbrack^{2}}{b^{2}} = 1,$ $z = h,$ $0  [40] ms, otherwise M2=1.
Discussion continues whether different scaling factor is needed for scenario-B
with two-side RRH._
RAN4 defined enhanced requirements for Cell reselection in IDLE/INACTIVE mode
for DRX 320 ms in HST FR2 deployments according to table:
Table 7.2.1-1: Cell reselection in IDLE/INACTIVE mode.
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | DRX cycle | Scaling | T~detec | T~measur | T~ev | | | length | Factor | t,NR_Int | e,NR_Int | aluate,NR | | | [s] | (N1) | ra~ [s] | ra~ [s] | _Intra~ | | | | | (number | (number | | | | | | of DRX | of DRX | [s] | | | | | cycles) | cycles) | (number | | | | | | | of DRX | | | | | | | cycles) | | +===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===+ | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | 0.32 | 2 or | 2.56 x N1 | 0.32 x N1 | 0.96 x N1 | | | | 6^Note1^ | x M2 (8 x | x M3 (1 x | x M4 (3 x | | | | | N1 x M2) | N1 x M3) | M4) | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | 0.64 | 5 | 17.92 x | 1.28 x N1 | 5.12 x N1 | | | | | N1 (28 x | (2 x N1) | (8 x N1) | | | | | N1) | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | 1.28 | 4 | 32 x N1 | 1.28 x N1 | 6.4 x N1 | | | | | (25 x | (1 x N1) | (5 x N1) | | | | | N1) | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | 2.56 | 3 | 58.88 x | 2.56 x N1 | 7.68 x N1 | | | | | N1 (23 x | (1 x N1) | (3 x N1) | | | | | N1) | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | N1 refers | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | number of | | | | | | | Rx beams | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | equals 2 | | | | | | | for Set | | | | | | | 1, and 6 | | | | | | | for Set | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | when SMTC | | | | | | | \ 40 ms, | | | | | | | M2 = 1.5, | | | | | | | M3 = M4 = | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | quirement | | | | | | | in this | | | | | | | table | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | class 6 | | | | | | | UE _,_ | | | | | | | when the | | | | | | | network | | | | | | | signaling | | | | | | | [_highSp | | | | | | | eedMeasFl | | | | | | | ag-r17]_ | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | onfigured | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | [set1] | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | set2]_._ | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
N1 refers to the number of Rx beams and equals 2 for Set 1, and 6 for Set 2
### 7.2.2 Connected mode
For connected mode mobility RAN4 agreed not to support RRC Release with
Redirection in the FR2 HST scenario.
RAN4 agreed to revise the TCI state known conditions for the FR2 HST scenario.
Concerning requirements for when UE is applying long DRX RAN4 agreed to apply
the existing R16 requirements for when the long DRX cycles are used, i.e.
above the upper bound of DRX cycle.
HST FR2 enhanced requirement is applied to SMTC \ 40 ms; otherwise | | | M2 = 1 | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
N~A~ = 2
Table 7.2.2-2: L1-RSRP measurement requirements for deployment Best-2.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Configuration | T~L1 | | | -RSRP_Measurement_Period_SSB~ | | | (ms) | +==================================+==================================+ | non-DRX | max(T~Report~, | | | ceil(M*P*N~B~)*T~SSB~) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DRX cycle ≤ 80ms | max(T~Report~, | | | ceil(M*P | | | *N~B~*M2)*max(T~DRX~,T~SSB~)) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: T~SSB~ = | | | ssb-periodicityServingCell is | | | the periodicity of the SSB-Index | | | configured for L1-RSRP | | | measurement. T~DRX~ is the DRX | | | cycle length. T~Report~ is | | | configured periodicity for | | | reporting. | | | | | | NOTE 2: M2 = 1.5 if SMTC | | | periodicity > 40 ms; otherwise | | | M2 = 1 | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
N~B~ = 6
RAN4 is still FFS whether enhanced requirement should be applied to other than
PC6 UEs even when HST FR2 flags are configured.
[Scheduling Restrictions:]{.underline}
Concerning scheduling restriction related to large propagation delay
difference caused by inter-RRH beam switching in FR2 HST:
\- Option 1: FFS the necessity of UL scheduling restriction (i.e., the UE is
not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS) after cross-RRH TCI state switch
until the first TRS is received after the TCI state switch; or
\- Option 2: RAN4 introduce scheduling restriction for the symbol before and
after reference symbols used for L1-RSRP measurement and Such scheduling
restriction shall be specified in clauses of L1 measurement (i.e., L1-SINR and
L1-RSRP).
**It was agreed that no enhancements are needed in HO requirement.
Additionally, it was agreed not to define RRC Re-establishment requirement to
known cell for HST FR2. RAN4 will** _define_ RRC connection re-establishment
requirement to unknown NR intra-frequency cell T~identify_intra_NR~ = MAX
(1000 ms, 10 x N1 x T~SMTC~) when SINR≥ -8dB, the value of N1 refers to agreed
RX beam number.
**Cell detection requirements for Set 1:**
Table 7.2.2-3: Time period for PSS/SSS detection when [flag1] is configured,
(Frequency range FR2).
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DRX cycle | T~PSS/SSS_sync_intra~ | +==================================+==================================+ | No DRX | max(600ms, ceil([6] x K~p~ x | | | K~layer1_measurement~)~ ~ x | | | SMTC period)^Note\ 1^ x | | | CSSF~intra~ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DRX cycle≤ 80 ms | max(600ms, ceil([6] x | | | M2^Note\ 2^ x K~p~ x | | | K~layer1_measurement~) x | | | max(SMTC period,DRX cycle)) x | | | CSSF~intra~ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 80ms\320ms | c | | | eil(M~pss/sss_sync_w/o_gaps~ | | | x K~p~ x | | | K~layer1_measurement~) x DRX | | | cycle x CSSF~intra~ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: If different SMTC | | | periodicities are configured for | | | different cells, the SMTC period | | | in the requirement is the one | | | used by the cell being | | | identified | | | | | | NOTE 2: M2 = 1.5 if SMTC | | | periodicity > 40 ms; otherwise | | | M2 = 1 | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
**Cell detection requirements for Set 2:**
Table 7.2.2-4: Time period for PSS/SSS detection when [flag2] is configured,
(Frequency range FR2).
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | e | T~PSS/SSS_sync_intra~ | +==================================+==================================+ | No DRX | max(600ms, ceil([18] x K~p~ x | | | K~layer1_measurement~)~ ~ x | | | SMTC period)^Note\ 1^ x | | | CSSF~intra~ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DRX cycle≤ 80ms | max(600ms, ceil([18] x | | | M2^Note\ 2^ x K~p~ x | | | K~layer1_measurement~) x | | | max(SMTC period,DRX cycle)) x | | | CSSF~intra~ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 80ms\320ms | c | | | eil(M~pss/sss_sync_w/o_gaps~ | | | x K~p~ x | | | K~layer1_measurement~) x DRX | | | cycle x CSSF~intra~ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: If different SMTC | | | periodicities are configured for | | | different cells, the SMTC period | | | in the requirement is the one | | | used by the cell being | | | identified | | | | | | NOTE 2: M2 = 1.5 if SMTC | | | periodicity > 40 ms; otherwise | | | M2 = 1 | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
**Measurement period for Set-1:**
Table 7.2.2-5: Measurement period for intra-frequency measurements without
gaps when [flag1] is configured (FR2).
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DRX cycle | T | | | ~SSB | | | _measurement_period_intra~ | +==================================+==================================+ | No DRX | max(400ms, ceil([6] x K~p~ x | | | K~layer1_measurement~) x SMTC | | | period)^Note\ 1^ x CSSF~intra~ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DRX cycle≤ 80ms | max(400ms, ceil([6] x | | | M2^Note\ 2^ x K~p~ x | | | K~layer1_measurement~) x | | | max(SMTC period,DRX cycle)) x | | | CSSF~intra~ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 80ms\320ms | ceil(M~meas_period_w/o_gaps~ | | | xK~p~ x K~layer1_measurement~ ) | | | x DRX cycle x CSSF~intra~ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: If different SMTC | | | periodicities are configured for | | | different cells, the SMTC period | | | in the requirement is the one | | | used by the cell being | | | identified | | | | | | NOTE 2: M2 = 1.5 if SMTC | | | periodicity > 40 ms; otherwise | | | M2 = 1 | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
**Measurement period for Set-2:**
Table 7.2.2-6: Measurement period for intra-frequency measurements without
gaps when [flag2] is configured (FR2).
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DRX cycle | T | | | ~SSB | | | _measurement_period_intra~ | +==================================+==================================+ | No DRX | max(400ms, ceil([18] x K~p~ x | | | K~layer1_measurement~) x SMTC | | | period)^Note\ 1^ x CSSF~intra~ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DRX cycle≤ [80ms] | max(400ms, ceil([18] x | | | M2^Note\ 2^ x K~p~ x | | | K~layer1_measurement~) x | | | max(SMTC period,DRX cycle)) x | | | CSSF~intra~ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 80ms\320ms | ceil(M~meas_period_w/o_gaps~ | | | xK~p~ x K~layer1_measurement~ ) | | | x DRX cycle x CSSF~intra~ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: If different SMTC | | | periodicities are configured for | | | different cells, the SMTC period | | | in the requirement is the one | | | used by the cell being | | | identified | | | | | | NOTE 2: M2 = 1.5 if SMTC | | | periodicity > 40 ms; otherwise | | | M2 = 1 | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
**RAN4 agreed** to define the scaling factors _factors
(M~pss/sss_synch_w/o_gaps~ and ~Mmeas_period_w/o_gaps~) equal to 6 for Set 1
and [18] for Set 2._
_Define scaling factor N for no DRX and DRX cycle \  RAN4 decided to use **one timing offset configuration. Configure the maximum
> timing offset (i.e., the end of the tested range) in FR2 HST testing setup
> equal to 4.8us:**
\- **Value of Timing offset: 0**
\- **Step of Timing offset increase: 0.48us**
5) Timing error tolerance:
a) 0.07us for AWGN, as a default value for 120KHz SCS.
Table 7.3.2.3 Simulation assumption for PRACH requirement
Parameters Value
* * *
Ncs 0 Logical sequence index 0 v 0 Channel AWGN Antenna configuration 1T2R SCS
120KHz Frequency offset 19444Hz Time error tolerance 0.07us Timing offset
4.8us with TO range 0:0.48:4.8
[Requirement selection:]{.underline}
Apply standard requirement selection to (post-FFT) results with outlier
selection, as in Rel-15 [R4-1904713] [R4-19004714]. Choose ideal result
alignment threshold as [2.5dB], and impairment threshold as [4dB].
# 8 Conclusion
#