# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report deals with the use of the Rail
Mobile Radio spectrum in the 900MHz frequency band, which was assigned by the
ECC Decision (20)02 [1] for the use by the railways in Europe.The purpose is
to gather the relevant background information and studies in order to address
all the necessary precautions to make the paired spectrum of
874.6-800/919.4-925MHz usable for 5G NR.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] ECC Decision (20)02: \"Harmonised use of the paired frequency bands
874.4-880.0 MHz and 919.4-925.0 MHz and of the unpaired frequency band
1900-1910 MHz for Railway Mobile Radio (RMR) \".
[2] European Commission implementing Decision (EU) 2021/1730 on the harmonised
use of the paired frequency bands 874,4-880,0 MHz and 919,4-925,0 MHz and of
the unpaired frequency band 1 900-1 910 MHz for Railway Mobile Radio, 28
September 2021.
[3] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.104: \"NR; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and
reception\".
[5] ECC Report 318, Compatibility between RMR and MFCN in the 900 MHz range,
the 1900-1920 MHz band and the 2290-2300 MHz band.
[6] ECC Report 313; Technical study for co-existence between RMR in the 900
MHz range and other applications in adjacent bands; approved 21 May 2020.
[7] R4-210431; LS to 3GPP RAN WG4 on the interferer signal definition for the
RMR900 BS Rx blocking requirement.
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
BW~Channel~ _BS channel bandwidth_
F~DL,low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink _operating band_
F~DL,high~ The highest frequency of the downlink _operating band_
P~REFSENS~ Conducted Reference Sensitivity power level
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AAS Advanced Antenna Systems
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ARFCN Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
BS Base Station
BW Bandwidth
CEPT Conférence Européenne des administrations des Postes et
Télécommunications
EC European Commission
ECC Electronic Communications Committee
EIRP Effective Isotropic Radiated Power
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
GSCN Global Synchronization Channel Number
HST High Speed Train
MFCN Mobile/Fixed Communications Networks
NR New Radio
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity
RF Radio Frequency
RMR Rail Mobile Radio
SCS Sub-Carrier Spacing
SS Synchronization Signal
# 4 Regulatory background
## 4.1 EC Decision 2021/1703
On September 28th 2021, the European Commission Decision 2021/1703 [2]
established the harmonised conditions for the availability and efficient use
of radio spectrum for the Railway Mobile Radio (RMR) in the bands 874.4-880.0
MHz, and 919.4-925.0 MHz. By January 1^st^ 2022, Member States shall designate
and make available on a non-exclusive basis the paired frequency bands
874.4-880.0 MHz and 919.4-925.0 MHz for Railway Mobile Radio, in accordance
with the technical conditions listed in subclause 4.3.
## 4.2 ECC Decision(20)02
The ECC Decision (20)02 [1] addresses the designation of the paired frequency
bands 874.4-880.0 MHz and 919.4-925.0 MHz to be used for Railway Mobile Radio
(RMR) on a CEPT wide basis.
By this Decision, the CEPT administrations shall designate the paired
frequency bands 874.4-880.0 MHz and 919.4-925.0 MHz for Railway Mobile Radio
(RMR) on a non-exclusive basis, according to the technical conditions listed
in subclause 4.3.
This Decision entered into force on November 20th, 2020.
## 4.3 Technical conditions
### 4.3.1 Base stations using wideband technologies
The following technical condition for the use of RMR 900MHz applies:
\- Only non AAS Base Stations are considered.
\- The lower edge of the lowest Resource Block shall be ≥ 919.6 MHz.
\- Table 4.3.1-1 and 4.3.1-2 specify the \"specific" in-block requirements,
based on ECC Decision 20(02) [1].
Table 4.3.1-1: Specific in-block requirements for 5.6 MHz and 5 MHz channels
mandatory for uncoordinated deployment
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RMR channel BW | Maximum EIRP | +==================================+==================================+ | 5.6 MHz | 62 dBm/5.6 MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5 MHz | 64.5 dBm/5 MHz + (fDL -- | | | 922.1)×40/3 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: fDL is the centre | | | frequency in MHz. | | | | | | NOTE 2: NB-IoT in-band operation | | | mode without power boost is | | | allowed. NB-IoT guard-band | | | operation mode and in-band | | | operation mode with power boost | | | are not allowed. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table 4.3.1-2: Specific in-block requirements for 1.4 MHz and 200 kHz channels
mandatory for uncoordinated deployment
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RMR channel BW | Maximum EIRP | +==================================+==================================+ | 1.4 MHz | 56 dBm/1.4 MHz + (fDL -- | | | 920.2)×40/3 dB (Note 1) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 200 kHz | 70.5 dBm/200 kHz + (fDL -- | | | 921)×40/3 dB (Note 3) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: fDL is the centre | | | frequency in MHz. | | | | | | NOTE 2: Formula applicable to | | | fDL ≤ 921.7 MHz. No specific | | | e.i.r.p. restriction above. | | | | | | NOTE 3: Applicable to NB-IoT | | | standalone operation mode, which | | | is made of one Resource Block. | | | | | | NOTE 4: Formula applicable to | | | fDL ≤ 921.0 MHz. No specific | | | e.i.r.p. restriction above. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Based on the current NR specification and the RMR900 WID scope, the above
requirements for 200 kHz, 1.4 MHz and 5.6 MHz channels are not applicable.
Referring to ECC Decision 20(02) table 2 [1], the "general" in-block
requirement as presented on table 4.3.1-3 is not mandatory. This requirement
is intended to provide guidance to the national administrations in case an
upper bound for the EIRP output power would be desired. Therefore, the general
in-block requirement in table 4.3.1-3 is not considered as the baseline for
general OBUE requirements for NR BS.
Table 4.3.1-3: General in-block requirement -- not applicable
RMR channel BW Maximum EIRP
* * *
Any Min {65 dBm/channel; Maximum e.i.r.p. specific to the channel BW} NOTE:
the above requirement may be used by an administration in case an upper bound
is desired.
Table 4.3.1-4: Out of band requirements
+--------------------------------------------------+------------------+ | MHz from block edge | EIRP limit | | | | | (919.4-925 MHz) | | +==================================================+==================+ | 0 ≤ Δf \ | \ | | | | -- Last) | -- Last) | +=================+============+=================+=================+ | n100 | 100 | 174880 -- | 183880 -- | | | | \ \-- | \ \-- | | | | 176000 | 185000 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+
Table 6-3: RMR 900 - applicable SS raster entries
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | NR _operating | SS Block SCS | SS Block | Range of GSCN | | band_ | | pattern\ | | | | | (NOTE 1) | (First -- | | | | | \ | | | | | -- Last) | +================+==============+================+================+ | n100 | 15 kHz | Case A | 2303 -- \ | | | | | -- 2307 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
# 7 RF requirements
## 7.1 BS specific requirements
### 7.1.1 General
According to ECC Decision (20)02 [1], the BS RF work for RMR900 is limited to
the Wide Area Base Stations, determined by the use along railway lines and
their corresponding characteristics defined by 3GPP TS 38.104 [4].
In accordance to ECC Decision 20(02) [1], the related studies es were done for
the non-AAS BS architectures, defined in 3GPP TS 38.104 [4]. Therefore the
RAN4 requirements derivation was limited to the BS type 1-C requirements,
only.
As the EIRP limits were defined in the ECC Decision (20)02 [1], consideration
of non-AAS BS architecture required to convert those EIRP limits into the
conducted requirements assuming a maximum gain that can vary depending on the
used antenna and related antenna gain as well as the potential losses, e.g.,
feeder. In the present consideration an antenna gain of 17 dBi and 4 dB losses
are assumed in accordance to ECC Report 318 [5] resulting to a maximum gain
value of G~maxRMR900~ = 13 dBi, encompassing internal losses (feeder, etc.) of
0 dB. Other assumptions may lead to other maximum gain values and conducted
requirements. Also, one antenna connector was assumed. If the BS has more than
one antenna connector, the limits shall be re-calculated considering the
intended number of antenna connectors serving a cell.
### 7.1.2 Transmitter characteristics
#### 7.1.2.1 BS maximum output power
Based on ECC Decision (20)02 [1], the BS maximum output power for BS operating
in band n100 applicable for uncoordinated deployment, should not exceed the
P~rated,c,AC~ derived based on table 4.3.1-1 EIRP limits, with the assumption
of maximum gain value of the BS antenna gain G~maxRMR900~ , and assuming one
antenna connector, as:
(64.5 -- G~maxRMR900~) dBm / 5 MHz + (f~DL~-922.1) x 40/3 dB = 51.5 dBm/5MHz +
(f~DL ~- 922.1) × 40/3 dB,
where G~maxRMR900~ is the maximum gain (antenna gain and losses) for the
RMR900 BS consideration.
#### 7.1.2.2 Unwanted emissions
##### 7.1.2.1.1 General
Only Category B emission requirements are applicable to NR operation in n100
band.
##### 7.1.2.1.2 OBUE
Emission mask of the OBUE Cat B Option 2 limits in 3GPP TS 38.104 [4]
applicable to Europe was compared to the one derived from ECC Decision (20)02
[1], in order to verify the need for additional RMR-specific OBUE requirement
introduction.
The following was observed:
\- Both masks were derived with different measurement bandwidths;
\- Emission limits comparison (after measurement bandwidths scaling) revealed
that the existing OBUE Cat B Option 2 mask is more stringent only for part of
the ∆f offset range (∆f \ NOTE: It is assumed that the 5MHz interfering signal does not overlap with
> the wanted signal channel bandwidth. Otherwise, the minimum offset is 90 kHz
> (half a RB).
##### 7.1.3.3.2 Intermodulation
For intermodulation, the following interferer characteristics shall be
considered for band n100 in 3GPP TS 38.104 [4].
\- Duty cycle of the narrowband interferer: 10%
\- Interfering signal mean power: -39 dBm
\- Wanted signal mean power (dBm): PREFSENS + 6 dB
For the interfering signal, it is proposed to use the definitions in
accordance with Table 7.7.2-4 of 3GPP TS 38.104 [3] for a 5 MHz channel.
## 7.2 UE specific requirements
### 7.2.1 Transmitter characteristics
The following 3GPP TS 38.101-1 [3] transmitter characteristic changes are
expected due to the introduction of 900MHz RMR band:
Table 7.2.1-1: UE Power Class
+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NR | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | | | 1 | rance | 1.5 | rance | 2 | rance | 3 | rance | | band | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | +======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | n100 | | | | | | | 23 | ±2 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.2.1-2: Requirements for spurious emissions for UE co-existence
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+ | NR | Sp | | | | | | | | Band | urious | | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | | ission | | | | | | | | | for UE | | | | | | | | | co-exi | | | | | | | | | stence | | | | | | | +========+========+========+========+========+======+===+===+ | | Pro | Fre | M | MBW | NOTE | | | | | tected | quency | aximum | (MHz) | | | | | | band | range | Level | | | | | | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+ | n100 | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | | | | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 8, 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 50, | | | | | | | | | 51, | | | | | | | | | 52, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 67, | | | | | | | | | 68, | | | | | | | | | 69, | | | | | | | | | 72, | | | | | | | | | 74, | | | | | | | | | 75, 76 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+ | | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 7, 41, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | n77, | | | | | | | | | n78 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+ | | Fre | 758 | - | 788 | -50 | 1 | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+
### 7.2.2 Receiver characteristics
The following 3GPP TS 38.101-1 [3] receiver characteristic changes are
expected due to the introduction of 900MHz RMR band:
Table 7.2.2-1: Two antenna port reference sensitivity QPSK PREFSENS for FDD
bands
Operating band / SCS / Channel bandwidth |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Operating Band | SCS kHz | 5 MHz  
(dBm) | 10 MHz  
(dBm) | 15 MHz  
(dBm) | 20 MHz  
(dBm) | 25 MHz  
(dBm) | 30 MHz (dBm) | 35 MHz (dBm) | 40 MHz  
(dBm) | 45 MHz (dBm) | 50 MHz  
(dBm)  
n100 | 15 | -100 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 7.2.2-2: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity
* * *
Operating band / SCS (kHz) / Channel bandwidth (MHz) / Duplex mode  
Operating Band SCS 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 60 70 80 90 100 Duplex Mode
n100 15 25 FDD
* * *
Table 7.2.2-3: In-band blocking for NR bands with F~DL_high~ \< 2700 MHz and
F~UL_high~ \< 2700 MHz
+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+--------+---------+ | NR band | Pa | Unit | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 3 | Case 4 | | | rameter | | | | | | +=========+=========+======+=========+=========+========+=========+ | | P~inte | dBm | -56 | -44 | -15 | -38 | | | rferer~ | | | | | | +---------+---------+------+---------+---------+--------+---------+ | | F~inte | MHz | -BW~Cha | ≤ | | -BW | | | rferer~ | | nnel~/2 | -BW~Cha | | ~Channe | | | ( | | -- | nnel~/2 | | l~/2-11 | | | offset) | | | -- | | | | | | | F~Ioff | | | | | | | | set,\ c | F~Ioff | | | | | | | ase\ 1~ | set,\ c | | | | | | | | ase\ 2~ | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | BW~Cha | | | | | | | | nnel~/2 | ≥ | | | | | | | + | BW~Cha | | | | | | | | nnel~/2 | | | | | | | F~Ioff | + | | | | | | | set,\ c | | | | | | | | ase\ 1~ | F~Ioff | | | | | | | | set,\ c | | | | | | | | ase\ 2~ | | | +---------+---------+------+---------+---------+--------+---------+ | n1, n2, | F~inte | MHz | NOTE 2 | F~D | | | | n3, n5, | rferer~ | | | L_low~ | | | | n7, n8, | | | | -- 15 | | | | n12, | | | | | | | | n13, | | | | to | | | | n14, | | | | | | | | n18, | | | | F~DL | | | | n20, | | | | _high~ | | | | n24, | | | | + 15 | | | | n25, | | | | | | | | n26, | | | | | | | | n28, | | | | | | | | n34, | | | | | | | | n38, | | | | | | | | n39, | | | | | | | | n40, | | | | | | | | n41, | | | | | | | | n48^3^, | | | | | | | | n50, | | | | | | | | n51, | | | | | | | | n53, | | | | | | | | n65, | | | | | | | | n66, | | | | | | | | n67, | | | | | | | | n70, | | | | | | | | n74, | | | | | | | | n75, | | | | | | | | n76, | | | | | | | | n85, | | | | | | | | n91, | | | | | | | | n92, | | | | | | | | n93, | | | | | | | | n94, | | | | | | | | n100 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+------+---------+---------+--------+---------+
Table 7.2.2-4: Out of-band blocking for NR bands with F~DL_high~ \< 2700 MHz
and F~UL_high~ \< 2700 MHz
+----------+----------+------+----------+----------+----------+ | NR band | P | Unit | Range 1 | Range 2 | Range 3 | | | arameter | | | | | +==========+==========+======+==========+==========+==========+ | n1, n2, | P~int | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | | n3, | erferer~ | | | | | +----------+----------+------+----------+----------+----------+ | n5, n7, | F~int | MHz | -60 \< f | -85 \< f | 1 ≤ f ≤ | | n8, n12, | erferer~ | | -- | -- | F~ | | n13, | (CW) | | F~ | F~ | DL_low~ | | n14, | | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | -- 85 | | n18, | | | \< -15 | ≤ -60 | | | n20, | | | | | or | | n24, | | | or | or | | | n25, | | | | | F~D | | n26, | | | 15 \< f | 60 ≤ f | L_high~ | | n28, | | | -- | -- | + 85 ≤ f | | n30, | | | F~D | F~D | | | n34, | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | ≤ 12750 | | n38, | | | \< 60 | \< 85 | | | n39, | | | | | | | n40, | | | | | | | n41, | | | | | | | n48^5^, | | | | | | | n50, | | | | | | | n51, | | | | | | | n53^6^, | | | | | | | n65, | | | | | | | n66, | | | | | | | n67, | | | | | | | n70, | | | | | | | n71, | | | | | | | n74, | | | | | | | n75, | | | | | | | n76, | | | | | | | n85, | | | | | | | n91, | | | | | | | n92, | | | | | | | n93, | | | | | | | n94, | | | | | | | n100 | | | | | | +----------+----------+------+----------+----------+----------+
Table 7.2.2-5: Narrow Band Blocking
NR band Parameter Unit Channel Bandwidth (MHz)
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5                                                                                                                                   10                                                                                                                                                     15   20   25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100
n1, n2, n3, n5, n7, n8, n12, n13, n14, n18, n20, n24, n25, n26, n28, n30, n34,
n38, n39, n40, n41, n48, n50, n51, n53, n65, n66, n67, n70, n71, n74, n75,
n76, n85, n100 P~w~ dBm P~REFSENS~ + channel-bandwidth specific value below  
16 13 14 16 16 P~uw~ (CW) dBm -55  
F~uw~ (offset SCS= 15 kHz) ^4^ MHz $$\left( \left\lfloor
\frac{\frac{\text{BW}_{\text{Channel}}}{2} + 0.2}{\text{SCS}} + 0.5
\right\rfloor + 0.5 \right)\text{SCS}$$ NA  
F~uw~ (offset SCS= 30 kHz)^4^ MHz NA $$\left( \left\lfloor
\frac{\frac{\text{BW}_{\text{Channel}}}{2} +
\text{BW}_{GB,Channel}}{\text{SCS}} + 0.5 \right\rfloor + 0.5
\right)\text{SCS}$$
# 8 Performance requirements
The High Speed Train (HST) BS demodulation requirements are to be
transparently applied for the NR operation in the RMR900 operating band.
# 9 Deployment aspects
In general, network deployment aspects are out of scope of the RAN4 work. For
the derivation of the BS RF requirements it was assumed that the RMR and MFCN
base stations are not co-located, and no coordination is necessary for RMR BS
deployment.
Co-location of a MFCN BS and a RMR BS requires coordination among the involved
parties. The use of spectrum and its related conditions, e.g., E.I.R.P, in
accordance to ECC Decision (20)02 Part B [1], are in the responsibility of
national regulation and coordination among involved parties.
# 10 Conclusion
The study dealt with how the RMR900MHz spectrum (874.4 - 880 MHz/ 919.4 \- 925
MHz) can be used for rail communication using 5G NR applicable in Europe. The
corresponding system parameters, BS RF parameter and UE RF parameter were
examined:
\- General: The focus was on the use of RMR900 under uncoordinated deployment
conditions, assuming that RMR BS operates independently of other operators
e.g. MFCN. Co-location with other operators and resulting coordination is
subject to national regulation and is outside the scope of this work item.
\- System Parameters: The RMR900 spectrum block can be used by 5MHz CBW
reusing Rel-15 sync raster design. For channel bandwidths smaller than 5 MHz,
related study objectives were covered in a separate Rel-18 work item
[RP-220401].
\- BS RF: Based on the ECC Decision (20)02 [1], the EIRP limits were analysed
accordingly and the necessary conclusions for an uncoordinated operational
approach were derived to define conducted power requirements. These include
the BS rated output power using corresponding assumptions, the resulting
emission values of the transmitter and the specifications of the receiver.
Furthermore, the coexistence with other 3GPP radio technologies has been
included.
\- UE RF: Based on the ECC Decision (20)02 [1], the EIRP limits were analysed
accordingly, and the necessary conclusions were derived for the use of Power
Class 3 (23dBm).
#