# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for Study on high power UE (power
class 2) for one NR FDD band. The study includes the SAR scheme(s),
interference issues, UE implementation issues, and system performance
evaluations.
The example bands used for the study are NR band n1 and n3.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".
[3] 3GPP R4-2111528: \"n3 50MHz REFSENS, A-MPR\". 3GPP RAN WG4 Meeting#99-e,
Skyworks Solutions, Inc.
[4] 3GPP R4-2114695: \"n3 PC2 MSD\". 3GPP RAN WG4 Meeting#100-e, Skyworks
Solutions, Inc.
[5] 3GPP R4-2112834: \"Sensitivity analysis results and UE implementation for
PC2 FDD band \". 3GPP RAN WG4 Meeting#100-e, LG Electronics.[6] 3GPP
R4-2112911: \"Discussion on interference for HPUE FDD band \". 3GPP RAN WG4
Meeting#100-e, ZTE Corporation.
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Justification
Increasing the transmit power of UE has significant benefits on extending cell
coverage area and improving the experience of cell edge users. In rel-16 one
study item and two work items related to HPUE have been proposed and worked on
to standardize the requirements for EN-DC scenarios.
However, extension of cell coverage for lower-frequency NR SA FDD band is also
important for some operators considering data throughput for cell edge users
is not satisfactory even in FDD bands, and further increasing the UE transmit
power would be beneficial for improving the performance of cell edge users.
Increasing the transmission power will be beneficial for extending uplink
coverage. SAR compliance schemes should be considered (e.g. Existing duty
cycle based solution could be taken into consideration for this study, other
solutions are not precluded.).
This Study Item is proposed to solve SAR issues, and potentially enable Power
Class 2 UE for one FDD band with 26 dBm maximum output power (UE types include
smart phone, FWA, etc.). NR band n1 and n3 shall be used as example band for
this study.
## 4.2 Objective
The objectives of the SI are as follows:
1 Study the applicable scheme(s) for new power class 2 UE for one NR FDD band
to comply with the SAR limits with 26dBm UE Tx power, the example band for
this study is NR band n1 and n3.
a. Study candidate SAR solutions, e.g. P-MPR, duty cycle capability, etc.
b. Study regulatory requirements related to 26dBm Tx power in FDD bands
including SAR.
> Note: Prioritize studies for the existing SAR solutions.
2 Study interference issues (e.g. self-desense, cross device coexistence...).
a. Study RF requirements for PC2 UE in FDD band, including self-desense
requirements, Tx requirements such as A-MPR, and so on.
b. Study adjacent channel co-existence for FDD band.
c. Investigate issues related to in-device interference, if identified.
3 Study UE implementation related issues such as RF component feasibility to
support 26dBm output power in band n1 and n3 at first. Other example FDD bands
are not precluded, if needed.
Evaluate system performance gains on spectrum efficiency, and other metrics if
needed could also be taken into account, to support NR FDD HPUE.
# 5 SAR Scheme
To accommodate the SAR limits of the NR PC2 FDD High Power UE, both UE-based
and network-based solutions are considered in the study phase. For UE-based
solution, the UE implementation based mechanism is used to ensure SAR
compliance. In addition to UE-based solution, an optional method of reporting
duty-cycle capability was also intensively discussed, but there is no
conclusion reached.
# 6 Interference
## 6.1 Receiver sensitivity degradation evaluation
Based on following agreement, RAN4 need to evaluate the receiver sensitivity
degradation impact in NR band n1 and n3.
\- Agreement: RAN4 can study receiver sensitivity degradation due to high max.
out power and Tx/Rx isolation levels according to RF component performance in
both n1 and n3 FDD bands.
\- Companies are encouraged to bring analyses on receiver sensitivity
degradation in next meeting.
### 6.1.1 Sensitivity degradation results for normal CBW in n1/n3
To derive sensitivity degradation in n1/n3, RAN4 assumed the current RFIC
characteristics and Duplexer & PA characteristics in each NR band.
In Table 6.1.1-1, the current RF component characterics are summaried
according to each NR band.
Table 6.1.1-1. RF parameters according to each NR band
parameters NR n1 band NR n3 band
* * *
Total NF (dB) 9.00 9.00 RFIC Noise for Rx band (dBm/Hz) -153 -150 PA Noise for
Rx band (dBm/Hz) -125 -122 PA Gain for Rx band (dB) 28 28 Duplexer Tx/Rx
isolation (dB) 53 49 RF Front-End Loss (dB) 4 4 Diversity gain (dB) 3 3
Antenna isolation (dB) 10 10
The receiver sensitivity will be impacted by duplexer isolation levels and
increasing noise level by RFIC and PA for Rx band at antenna connector based
on PC3 REFSENS requirements in each FDD bands.
Hence, the receiver sensitivity degradation will be derived based on the
increasing noise level in Rx band by duplexer isolation and RFIC/PA noise for
PC2 transmission in FDD band.
The following REFSENS is for PC3 UE in n3 FDD NR band as reference point.
Table 6.1.1-2. REFSENS reference for PC3 UE in each NR band
                                                                 NR n1 band             NR n3 band
* * *
                                                                 Main path              Diversity path         Main path   Diversity path
C/N requirement (dB) -1.00 -1.00 -1.00 -1.00 Noise floor at Antenna
connector(dBm/Hz) -165.0 -165.0 -165.0 -165.0 Total NF(RFFE lL + RF NF) (dB)
9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 RFIC RX Band Noise level at Antenna connector (dBm/Hz)
-170.5 -180.5 -161.5 -171.5 PA RX Band Noise level at Antenna connector
(dBm/Hz) -170.5 -180.5 -161.5 -171.5 Total RXBN at Antenna connector (dBm/Hz)
-163.1 -164.7 -157.6 -163.4 **Sensitivity with RXBN (PC3 max Tx power)(dBm)
*10MHz BW** -94.1 -95.7 -88.6 -94.4 **After MRC** -98.0 (1.2dB margin) -95.4
(1.6dB margin)
#### 6.1.1.1 Dominant factor by Duplexer Tx/Rx isolation in each FDD band
Basically, the existing PA for FDD band need to improve the linearity of
maximum output power at least 3dB higher than current PA characteristics based
on section 7. Also duplexer aspect, filter vendor need to enhanced the Tx/Rx
isolation level to guarantee the existing REFSENS or to relax desense impact.
But it is also challenge to filter vendors for small Tx/Rx frequency gap such
as Band 3 or NR band n3.
So, just asumed 2dB Tx/Rx isolation levels by 3dB Transmission power
increasing would be impacted the sensitivity degradation compare to PC3
duplexer in n3.
In Table 6.1.1.1-1, the expected sensitivity degradation levels by decreasing
2dB duplexer isolation level are shown.
**Table 6.1.1.1-1. Sensitivity degradation by duplexer isolation 2dB
relaxation**
                                                             NR n1 band                      NR n3 band
* * *
                                                             Main path                       Diversity path                  Main path   Diversity path
C/N requirement (dB) -1.00 -1.00 -1.00 -1.00 Noise floor at Antenna
connector(dBm/Hz) -165.0 -165.0 -165.0 -165.0 Total NF(RFFE lL + RF NF) (dB)
9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 RFIC RX Band Noise level at Antenna connector (dBm/Hz)
-168.5 -178.5 -159.5 -169.5 PA RX Band Noise level at Antenna connector
(dBm/Hz) -168.5 -178.5 -159.5 -169.5 Total RXBN at Antenna connector (dBm/Hz)
-162.2 -164.6 -155.9 -162.6 Sensitivity with RXBN (PC3 max Tx power)(dBm)
*10MHz BW -93.2 -95.6 -86.9 -93.6 After MRC -97.6 dBm 0.4dB MSD is needed
-94.5 dBm 0.9dB MSD is needed
**Observation: In n3 FDD band, the 0.9 dB MSD is needed when Duplexer
isolation charateristic is decreased 2dB compare to current filter
characteristics.**
**Observation: In n1 FDD band, the 0.4dB MSD is needed when Duplexer isolation
charateristic is decreased 2dB compare to current filter characteristics.**
#### 6.1.1.2 Dominant factor by RFIC/PA noise levles in Rx band
In this section, we consider the increased noise level in Rx band by RFIC/PA
operation in FDD band. Eventhough filter vendor try to keep or enhance the the
current Tx/Rx isolation level in duplexer for each FDD band, the raised
leakage problem in Rx band also shall be considered.
**Observation: Eventhough duplexer isolation level keep or enhance the Tx/Rx
isolation level, the raised leakage problem in Rx band by RFIC/PA operation in
FDD band will be impacted to the sensitivity degradation in FDD band.**
When we consider 3dB Tx power boosting, the noise level could be increased by
RFIC/PA operation in Rx band. So we assumed about 1.5dB noise level increasing
in Rx band to derive the expected MSD level according to each FDD band.
Table 6.1.1.2-1. Sensitivity degradation by increasing noise level (1.5dB) by
RFIC/PA in Rx band
                                                             NR n1 band                      NR n3 band
* * *
                                                             Main path                       Diversity path                  Main path   Diversity path
C/N requirement (dB) -1.00 -1.00 -1.00 -1.00 Noise floor at Antenna
connector(dBm/Hz) -165.0 -165.0 -165.0 -165.0 Total NF(RFFE lL + RF NF) (dB)
9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 RFIC RX Band Noise level at Antenna connector (dBm/Hz)
-169.0 -179.0 -160.0 -170.0 PA RX Band Noise level at Antenna connector
(dBm/Hz) -169.0 -179.0 -160.0 -170.0 Total RXBN at Antenna connector (dBm/Hz)
-162.4 -164.7 -156.4 -162.9 Sensitivity with RXBN (PC3 max Tx power)(dBm)
*10MHz BW -93.4 -95.7 -87.4 -93.9 After MRC -97.7 dBm 0.3dB MSD is needed
-94.7 dBm 0.7dB MSD is needed
The expected MSD degradations are almost same as Duplexer isolation
degradation as shown in Table 6.1.1.1.
**Observation: In n3 FDD band, the 0.7 dB MSD is needed when assume noise
level might be increased about 1.5dB in Rx band by RFIC/PA operation.**
**Observation: In n1 FDD band, the 0.3dB MSD is needed when assume noise level
might be increased about 1.5dB in Rx band by RFIC/PA operation.**
#### 6.1.1.3 Dominant factor by Duplexer and RFIC/PA noise levles in Rx band
In here we consider worst case for MSD analysis that means the duplexer
isolation could not keep and enhanced such as in n3 FDD band due to small
Tx/Rx frequency gap.
Then, above Duplexer performance decreasing and the noise level in Rx band
will be increased in RFIC by 3dB Tx power increasing for PC2 UE in FDD band.
So, the above two factor will be impacted in the receiver sensitivity
degradation in FDD band.
In Table 6.1.1.3-1, we provided the expected sensitivity degradation by
considering the duplexer characteristics and incresed noise level in Rx band
by RFIC/PA operation.
Table 6.1.1.3-1. Sensitivity degradation by duplexer isolation (2dB
relaxation) & incresed noise level (1.5dB) in Rx band by RFIC/PA operation
                                                             NR n1 band                      NR n3 band
* * *
                                                             Main path                       Diversity path                  Main path   Diversity path
C/N requirement (dB) -1.00 -1.00 -1.00 -1.00 Noise floor at Antenna
connector(dBm/Hz) -165.0 -165.0 -165.0 -165.0 Total NF(RFFE lL + RF NF) (dB)
9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 RFIC RX Band Noise level at Antenna connector (dBm/Hz)
-167.0 -177.0 -158.0 -168.0 PA RX Band Noise level at Antenna connector
(dBm/Hz) -167.0 -177.0 -158.0 -168.0 Total RXBN at Antenna connector (dBm/Hz)
-161.5 -164.5 -154.6 -162.0 Sensitivity with RXBN (PC3 max Tx power)(dBm)
*10MHz BW -92.5 -95.5 -85.6 -93.0 After MRC -97.2 dBm 0.8dB MSD is needed
-93.7 dBm 1.7dB MSD is needed
Based on the expected RF component degradation, observations are provided as
follow
**Observation: In n3 FDD band, the 1.7 dB MSD is needed when both Duplexer
isolation charateristic (2dB relaxation) and increased noise level (1.5dB) in
Rx band by RFIC/PA operation for PC2 FDD UE.**
**Observation: In n1 FDD band, the 0.8dB MSD is needed when both duplexer
isolation charateristic (2dB relaxation) and increased noise level (1.5dB) in
Rx band by RFFIC/PA operation for PC2 FDD UE.**
### 6.1.2 Wide channel bandwidth sensitivity analysis in n3
For the wide channel bandwidth (CBW) in n3 NR band, RAN4 need study the
sensitivity degradation to consider the counter IMD problem such as CIM5
impact in n3 received frequency band as shown in Figure 6.1.2-1.
{width="3.6770833333333335in" height="1.65625in"}
Figure 6.1.2-1 Impact on the CIMD5 problem in n3 NR band
#### 6.1.2.1 LGE sensitivity analysis results in n3
To derive sensitivity degradation in n3 with wide CBW, we assumed the
following as shown in Table 6.1.2.1-1.
Table 6.1.2.1-1. RF parameters according to each NR band
parameters NR n3 band
* * *
Total NF (dB) 9.00 counter-intermodulation products CIM5 (dBc) -60 RFIC Noise
for Rx band (dBm/Hz) -150 PA Noise for Rx band (dBm/Hz) -122 PA Gain for Rx
band (dB) 28 Duplexer Tx/Rx isolation (dB) 47 RF Front-End Loss (dB) 4
Diversity gain (dB) 3 Antenna isolation (dB) 10
The receiver sensitivity will be impacted by duplexer isolation levels and
increasing noise level by RFIC and PA for Rx band at antenna connector based
on PC3 REFSENS requirements in each CBW.
Hence, the receiver sensitivity degradation will be derived based on the
increasing noise level in Rx band by duplexer isolation and RFIC/PA noise due
to CIM5 from PC2 transmission in FDD band.
The following REFSENS analysis is for PC3 UE in n3 FDD NR band with 40Mhz and
50MHz CBW as reference point.
Table 6.1.2.1-2. REFSENS reference for PC3 FDD UE in each CBW(40MHz, 50MHz)
* * *
                                                           NR n3 band\            NR n3 band\                        
                                                           40MHz CBW              50MHz CBW
* * *
                                                           Main path              Diversity path         Main path   Diversity path
C/N requirement (dB) -1.0 -1.0 -1.0 -1.0
Noise floor at Antenna connector(dBm/Hz) -165.0 -165.0 -165.0 -165.0
Total NF(RFFE lL + RF NF) (dB) 9.0 9.0 9.0 9.0
CIM5 at Antenna connector (dBm/Hz) -152.5 -162.5 -150.5 -160.5
RFIC RX Band Noise level at Antenna connector (dBm/Hz) -161.5 -171.5 -161.5
-171.5
PA RX Band Noise level at Antenna connector (dBm/Hz) -161.5 -171.5 -161.5
-171.5
Total RXBN at Antenna connector (dBm/Hz) -151.3 -159.9 -149.7 -158.7
Sensitivity with RXBN (PC3 max Tx power)(dBm/CBW) -76.3 -84.9 -73.7 -82.7
After MRC -85.5 (3.2dB margin) -83.2 (3.5dB margin)
* * *
In Table 6.1.2.1-3, we provided the expected sensitivity degradation to
consider the counter IMD problem in wide CBW for PC2 UE for n3 band.
Table 6.1.2.1-3. Sensitivity degradation for PC2 FDD UE in each CBW(40MHz,
50MHz)
* * *
                                                           NR n3 band\                     NR n3 band\                                 
                                                           40MHz CBW                       50MHz CBW
* * *
                                                           Main path                       Diversity path                  Main path   Diversity path
C/N requirement (dB) -1.0 -1.0 -1.0 -1.0
Noise floor at Antenna connector(dBm/Hz) -165.0 -165.0 -165.0 -165.0
Total NF(RFFE lL + RF NF) (dB) 9.0 9.0 9.0 9.0
CIM5 at Antenna connector (dBm/Hz) -149.5 -159.5 -147.5 -157.5
RFIC RX Band Noise level at Antenna connector (dBm/Hz) -160.0 -170.0 -160.0
-170.0
PA RX Band Noise level at Antenna connector (dBm/Hz) -160.0 -170.0 -160.0
-170.0
Total RXBN at Antenna connector (dBm/Hz) -148.7 -157.9 -147.0 -156.4
Sensitivity with RXBN (PC2 max Tx power)(dBm/CBW) -73.7 -82.8 -71.0 -80.4
After MRC -83.3 dBm 2.1dB MSD is needed -80.9 dBm 2.4dB MSD is needed
* * *
**Observation: In 40M CBW, the 2.1 dB MSD by CIMD5 is needed when PC2
transmission in n3 FDD band.**
**Observation: In 50M CBW, the 2.4 dB MSD by CIMD5 is needed when PC2
transmission in n3 FDD band.**
Hence, RAN4 recommand as follow
To reduce the sensitivity degradation in n3/n1 band, filter vendor shall keep
or enhance the duplexer Tx/Rx isolation level for FDD bands to support PC2 UE.
Based on RF component improvement, RAN4 can further study for sensitivity
degradation requirements when RF component vendor provide these commercial
Duplexer, PAs and RFICs for PC2 UE in FDD band in WI phase.
#### 6.1.2.2 SKW sensitivity analysis results in n3
To derive the sensitivity degradation in n3 band, we use the same UL RB
allocations than those agreed for PC3 NR UE in n3 band.
The PA noise levels in the receiver band and corresponding MSD levels can be
found in Figure 6.1.2.2-1 as below.
{width="7.260416666666667in" height="1.6770833333333333in"}
Figure 6.1.2.2-1 Measured Tx noise and corresponding MSD levels for all CBW.
The estimated MSD levels for in 35MHz, 40MHz, 45MHz and 50MHz CBW lead to
REFSENS levels that are lower than those agreed for PC3 operation. For these
CBW, we tentatively propose to use the same approach as in [3], i.e. we
propose PC2 REFSENS levels by evaluating the MSD level difference between PC3
and PC2 and apply this MSD difference to PC3 REFSENS levels. We observe the
following MSD difference vs CBW:
\- 3.1dB for 50MHz CBW: PC2 MSD of 7.2dB vs PC3 MSD of 4.1dB [3],
\- 2.5dB for 45MHz CBW: PC2 MSD of 4.5dB vs PC3 MSD 2dB [3],
\- 0.6dB for 40MHz CBW: PC2 MSD of 2.0 dB vs PC3 MSD of 1.5dB [3],
\- 0.2dB for 35MHz CBW: PC2 MSD of 0.9 dB vs PC3 MSD of 0.7 dB [3].
For CBW less than or equal to 30MHz, the PC2 MSD can be neglected.
n3 PC2 REFSENS levels and UL configurations are proposed in Table 6.1.2.2-1
and Table 6.1.2.2-2.
**Table 6.1.2.2-1: n3 PC2 REFSENS**
UL configuration | SCS (kHz) | 5 MHz (dBm) | 10 MHz (dBm) | 15 MHz (dBm) | 20 MHz (dBm) | 25 MHz (dBm) | 30 MHz (dBm) | 35 MHz (dBm) | 40 MHz (dBm) | 45 MHz (dBm) | 50 MHz (dBm) | Duplex mode  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
n3 | 15 | -97.0 | -93.8 | -92.0 | -90.8 | -89.7 | -88.9 | -86.0 | -81.7 | -78.8 | -76.6 | FDD  
| 30 |  | -94.1 | -92.1 | -91.0 | -89.8 | -89.0 | -86.1 | -81.8 | -78.9 | -76.7 |   
| 60 |  | -94.5 | -92.4 | -91.2 | -90.0 | -89.1 | -86.2 | -82.0 | -79.0 | -76.8 |   
NOTE 1: Four Rx antenna ports shall be the baseline for this operating band except for two Rx vehicular UE. NOTE 2: The transmitter shall be set to PUMAX as defined in clause 6.2.4 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
**Table 6.1.2.2-2: n3 PC2 REFSENS Uplink Configuration**
UL configuration | SCS (kHz) | 5 MHz (dBm) | 10 MHz (dBm) | 15 MHz (dBm) | 20 MHz (dBm) | 25 MHz (dBm) | 30 MHz (dBm) | 35 MHz (dBm) | 40 MHz (dBm) | 45 MHz (dBm) | 50 MHz (dBm) | Duplex mode  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
n3 | 15 | 25 | 501 | 501 | 501 | 501 | 501 | 501 | 501 | 501 | 501 | FDD  
| 30 |  | 241 | 241 | 241 | 241 | 241 | 241 | 241 | 241 | 241 |   
| 60 |  | 101 | 101 | 101 | 101 | 101 | 101 | 101 | 101 | 101 |   
NOTE 1: UL resource blocks shall be located as close as possible to the downlink operating band but confined within the transmission bandwidth configuration for the channel bandwidth (Table 5.3.2-1). |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
#### 6.1.2.3 ZTE sensitivity analysis results in n3
For band n3, the situation is more complicated since CIM5 may need to be
considered for some larger CBWs such as 35MHz, 40MHz 45MHz and 50MHz, shown in
Table 6.1.2.3-1. We can see from Table 6.1.2.3-1, there are CIM5 problem for
40MHz, 45MHz and 50MHz with the same UL configurations of 50RB, which will
further degrade the REFSEN requirements. Therefore, when the maximum output
power increase 3dB, CIM5 value will become large which will cause REFSEN
degradation more severe.
**Table 6.1.2.3-1. CIM5 calculation for band n3**
CBW_Tx 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
* * *
CBW_Rx 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 Ful 1775 1772.5 1770 1767.5 1765 1762.5 1760 UL RB
50 50 50 50 50 50 50 Fdl 1870 1867.5 1865 1862.5 1860 1857.5 1855 Rx_high 1880
1880 1880 1880 1880 1880 1880 Rx_low 1860 1855 1850 1845 1840 1835 1830 CIM5
low 1777.7 1787.4 1797.0 1807.1 1817.2 1826.4 1836.5 CIM5 center 1800.2 1809.9
1819.5 1829.6 1839.75 1848.9 1859.0 CIM5 high 1822.7 1832.4 1842.0 1852.1
1862.2 1871.4 1881.5
Similar with band n1, we cite some measurement results in [3] as follow:
The measured TX noise levels in RX band are:
\- 35 MHz: -45 dBm,
\- 40 MHz: -40.4 dBm,
\- 45 MHz: -38 dBm,
\- 50 MHz: -32.3 dBm
In addition, 50 dB Tx to RX and Tx to Antenna duplexer rejection in Rx band,
as a worst case assumption. With the above measurement, the MSD levels for
CBW>35MHz channel bandwidths are larger than 0.5dB, which means the REFENS
requirements cannot be scaled by the channel bandwidth since CIM5 interference
needs to be considered.
To roughly simulate the PC2 case, here we increase the additional Tx noise
(i.e. delta P from 0\~6dB) on top of the above measured Tx noise levels in Rx
band , where 0dB means no additional measured Tx noise, i.e. same with PC3
case. The MSD levels are shown in Figure 6.1.2.3-1 as follow:
{width="5.03125in" height="1.90625in"}
**Figure 6.1.2.3-1 Expected MSD levels in n3 according to delta P**
In can be seen that the MSD levels are increased by the delta P due to the
total Tx noise levels in RX band increased. The slope for larger CBW is
steeper than the small CBW. Assuming additional 6dB total Tx noise on top of
the existing measured ones, then to guarantee the same REFSEN requirements as
PC3 for PC2, \~5dB additional duplexer rejections on top of the existing one
would be needed.
**Observation: For band n3, assuming additional 6dB total noise caused by
increasing 3dB MOP, then \~5dB additional duplexer rejections on top of the
existing one could be needed to guarantee the existing PC3 REFSEN requirements
for PC2.**
The duplexers filter can achieve better isolation than what was used as an
assumption (i.e. 50dB) for LTE FDD bands and copied to NR considering the
today's duplexer state-of-the-art. Therefore, to reduce the PC2 REFSEN
requirements for band n1 or band n3, better duplexer Tx/Rx (more than 50dB
such as 55dB) could be needed.
From the above sensitivity degradation simulation results, RAN4 summarize the
required sentitivity degradation levels as shown in Table 6.1-1 and Table
6.1-2. The reference points are PC3 REFSENS requirements in TS38.101-1 to
decide the required sensitivity level for PC2 UE.
**Table 6.1-1. Required sensitivity degradation levels in n1 NR Band for PC2
UE**
**n1 band** **PC2 [5]** **PC2 [4]** **PC2 [6]**
* * *
Reference point ** ** ** ** ** ** 10 MHz (-96.8dBm) 0.8 dB - -
**Table 6.1-2. Required sensitivity degradation levels in n3 NR Band for PC2
UE**
**n3 band** **PC2 [5]** **PC2 [4]** **PC2 [6]**
* * *
Reference point 0.0 dB 10 MHz (-93.8dBm) 1.7 dB 0.0 dB 20 MHz (-90.8dBm) 0.0
dB 30 MHz (-88.9dBm) 0.0 dB 35 MHz (-86.2dBm) 0.2 dB 0.9 dB 40 MHz (-82.3dBm)
2.1 dB 0.6 dB 1.4 dB 45 MHz (-81.3dBm) 2.5 dB 1.8 dB 50 MHz (-79.7dBm) 2.4 dB
3.1 dB 2.7 dB
The above two tables will be considered as starting point to determine the
exact REFSENS levels for FDD PC2 UE in WI phase.
# 7 UE implementations
In this section, we take a look at the RF component performance in FDD band
such as n1/n3.
## 7.1 Current RF component characteristics in FDD band
Generally, RAN4 considered RF front-end loss as 4dB for smart phone form
facter for PC3 and PC2 UE. Then, to support PC2 UE in FDD band, both PA and
Duplexer shall support the allowed max. output with at least 30 dBm power to
support PC2 UE.
### 7.1.1 Power Amplifier characteristics
The following characteristics of PA are shown in Table 7.1.1.1 and Table
7.1.1.2
\- PA characteristic of Linearity Maximum Output power in n3
Table 7.1.1.1. PA max. out put power in n3
Parameter Symbol Conditions Min. Typ. Max. Unit
* * *
Operating Frequency f~0~ 1710 1785 MHz Maximum NR Output Power
P~OUT_MAX_NR_NTC~ V~CC~ = 3.8V, NTC 28 dBm
> ※Condition : SC-FDMA, MPR 0dB
\- PA characteristic of Linearity Maximum Output power in n1
> **Table 7.1.1.2. PA max. out put power in n1**
Parameter Symbol Conditions Min. Typ. Max. Unit
* * *
Operating Frequency f~0~ 1920 1980 MHz Maximum NR Output Power
P~OUT_MAX_NR_NTC~ V~CC~ = 3.8V, NTC 27.5 dBm
> ※Condition : SC-FDMA, MPR 0dB
\- MMPA characteristic of Linearity Maximum Output power in n1/n2/n3/n4/n25
Table 7.1.1.3. MMPA max. out put power in n1/n2/n3/n4/n25
Parameter Conditions Min. Typ. Max. Units
* * *
Frequency Range Band 1 1920 1980 MHz Band 2 1850 1910  
Band 3 1710 1785  
Band 4 1710 1755  
Band 25 1850 1915  
Maximum Linear Output Power HPM, V~CC~ = 3.4V 28.5^(1)^ dBm LPM, V~CC~ = 0.7V
3.5
※Condition : SC-FDMA, MPR 0dB
Based on above PA performance information in FDD band, we can see that current
PA need to improve the linearity of maximum output power at least 3dB higher
than current PA characteristics.
### 7.1.2 Duplexer characteristics
The following characteristics of Duplexer are shown in Table 7.1.2.1 and Table
7.1.2.2
\- Duplexer characteristic for the allowed max. input power in n3
Table 7.1.2.1. Duplexer max. input power in n3
* * *
Input power at P~IN~ 1712.50-1782.50MHz 29 dBm source and load impedance 50Ω
5MHz LTE uplink \@50℃, 5000h
* * *
> ※Condition : SC-FDMA, MPR 0dB
\- Duplexer characteristic for allowed max. input power in n1
Table 7.1.2.2. Duplexer max. input power in n1
* * *
Input Power +29dBm 5000h +55deg.C
* * *
※Condition : SC-FDMA, MPR 0dB
Based on above Duplexer performance information in FDD band, we can see that
current Duplexer also need to improve the maximum power rating at least 2\~3dB
higher than the current Duplexer characteristics.
Therefore, RAN4 can study on high power UE (power class 2) for one NR FDD band
when RF component vendor are ready to support the RF component performance to
support PC2 UE in FDD band.
From the above current RF component characteristics, we share our observation
and proposal as follow
**Observation : In FDD band, the PA/Duplexer charateristic is not support PC2
maximum output power since PA linearity and Duplexer allowed maximum power
rating shall improve the performance at least 3dB higher than current
component charateristics.**
# 8 System Performance Evaluation
## 8.1 Dynamic system level simulation
### 8.1.1 General
The dynamic system level simulation is usually used to evaluate the system
performance gain, which can simulate the behavior of system in more detail.
The HPUE feature can improve UL coverage but at the same time increase the
interference of the neighboring cells, and the final system performance gain
is evaluated by the average cell uplink throughput and 5%-tile cell-edge
uplink throughput.
In addition, the SAR issue is also a practical factor that limits HPUE
performance. Restricting duty-cycle is a commonly used method to avoid SAR
issue, and it is widely used in TDD systems. However, there are some
difficulties in compatibility between duty-cycle and FDD systems, but in order
to include the potential impact of scheduling constraints on system
performance due to the SAR issues, the 50% duty-cycle restriction should also
be evaluated.
### 8.1.2 Simulation assumptions
The simulation assumptions for dynamic system level simulation are included in
Table 8.1.2-1
Table 8.1.2-1. Simulation Assumptions
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Configuration parameters | Values | +==================================+==================================+ | Scenario | Urban macro | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | ISD | 500 m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Duplexing | FDD | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 1.8 GHz, 2.1GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Modulation | Up to 64QAM, 256QAM is optional | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Numerology | 15 kHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Simulation bandwidth | 40 MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Transmission scheme | SU-MIMO | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Codebook | For 2Tx, codebook [1 1]T is | | | used for transmit diversity | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SU dimension | 1 layer | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna configuration at TRxP | 4Rx, (M,N,P,Mg, Ng) = | | | (1,2,2,1,1; 1,2); 4Rx, (M, N, P, | | | Mg, Ng) = (1, 4, 2, 1, 2) | | | | | | 32Rx, (M,N,P,Mg, Ng) = | | | (8,8,2,1,1; 2,8) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna configuration at UE | 1Tx, (M,N,P,Mg, Ng) = | | | (1,1,1,1,1; 1,1), | | | | | | 2Tx, (M,N,P,Mg, Ng) = | | | (1,1,2,1,1; 1,1) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE maximal transmit power | For 1Tx, 23 dBm for each TXRU | | | | | | For 1Tx, 26 dBm for each TXRU | | | (High power UE) | | | | | | For 2Tx, 23 dBm for each TXRU | | | (High power UE) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Scheduling | PF | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Receiver | MMSE-IRC | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel estimation | Ideal | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Power control parameter | P0=[-60\~-76], alpha = [0.6, | | | 0.8] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | TRxP number per site | 3 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | TRxP number | 21 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel model | UMa following TR 38.901 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Electronic tilt | 102° | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Traffic model | FTP3, packet size: 100k / 10k | | | Byte, arrival rate: [1 packet / | | | s, 1 packet/200ms] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Uplink duty cycle | 50%, 100% | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Note: HPUE ratio 100% baseline, | | | 50% and 25% are optional | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Further evaluation based on other traffic models for reference are not
precluded.
### 8.1.3 Simulation results
#### 8.1.3.1 P0 = -76, alpha = 0.6
Company 1 (R4-2109699)
In the simulation, all UEs are assumed to have high power capability and the
results are shown in Table 8.1.3.1-1
Table 8.1.3.1-1: Simulation Results for Alpha =0.6
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | **Max |** Pac | **Pac | * | * |** 5% | * | **5% | | *Ante | Tx** | ket**| ket** | _Duty |_ Cell | UPT**| *Cell | UPT** | | nna**| | | | cy | a | | a | | | |** Po | **s | * | cle** | vg.**|** /M | vg.**|** g | | | wer**| ize** | _arri | | | bps_ _| | ain_ _| | | | | val_ _| | ** | |__UPT | | | |__/ | | | | UPT_ _| | g | | | | dBm_ _| |__r | | | | ain_ _| | | | | | ate_ _| |__/M | | | | | | | | | | bps_ * | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | BS: | 23 | 100k | 5 | 100% | 190.1 | 3.04 | 0%, | 0%, | | 4R | | Byte | f | | | | | | | | | | ile/s | | | | bas | bas | | UE: | | | | | | | eline | eline | | 1T | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | BS: | 26 | 100k | 5 | 100% | 192.1 | 4.24 | 1.0% | 39.4% | | 4R | | Byte | f | | | | | | | | | | ile/s | | | | | | | UE: | | | | | | | | | | 1T | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | BS: | 26 | 100k | 5 | 50% | 190.3 | 3.12 | 0.1% | 2.7% | | 4R | | Byte | f | | | | | | | | | | ile/s | | | | | | | UE: | | | | | | | | | | 1T | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
For alpha = 0.6, The proportion of UEs working at high power is relatively
small, and the performance gain of PC2 UE is reflected in edge users which is
also in line with the expected purpose. However, the 50% duty-cycle will
significantly reduce the performance gain because high-power users are mainly
distributed at the edge of the cell at this time.
Company 3 (R4-2111446)
Table 8.1.3.1-2: Simulation results for P0 = -76, alpha = 0.6
**Antenna** **Max Tx power/dBm** **Packet size** **Packet arrival rate**
**Cell avg. UPT gain** **5% UPT gain**
* * *
BS: 4R UE: 1T 23 10k Byte 1 file/200ms 100% 100% BS: 4R UE: 1T 26 10k Byte 1
file/200ms 153.33% 112.50 %
#### 8.1.3.2 P0 = -76, alpha = 0.8
Company 1 (R4-2109699)
Table 8.1.3.2-1: Simulation Results for Alpha =0.8
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | **Max |** Pac | **Pac | * | * |** 5% | * | **5% | | *Ante | Tx** | ket**| ket** | _Duty |_ Cell | UPT**| *Cell | UPT** | | nna**| | | | cy | a | | a | | | |** Po | **s | * | cle** | vg.**|** /M | vg.**|** g | | | wer**| ize** | _arri | | | bps_ _| | ain_ _| | | | | val_ _| | ** | |__UPT | | | |__/ | | | | UPT_ _| | g | | | | dBm_ _| |__r | | | | ain_ _| | | | | | ate_ _| |__/M | | | | | | | | | | bps_ * | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | BS: | 23 | 100k | 5 | 100% | 146.2 | 1.36 | 0%, | 0%, | | 4R | | Byte | f | | | | | | | | | | ile/s | | | | bas | bas | | UE: | | | | | | | eline | eline | | 1T | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | BS: | 26 | 100k | 5 | 100% | 179.8 | 1.73 | 23.0% | 27.4% | | 4R | | Byte | f | | | | | | | | | | ile/s | | | | | | | UE: | | | | | | | | | | 1T | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | BS: | 26 | 100k | 5 | 50% | 176.9 | 1.53 | 21.0% | 12.2% | | 4R | | Byte | f | | | | | | | | | | ile/s | | | | | | | UE: | | | | | | | | | | 1T | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
When the alpha rises to 0.8, the proportion of high-power users will increase.
PC2 UEs will significantly improve cell average and edge performance. Since
high-power users are not only distributed at the 5% edge of the cell at this
time, the performance gain reduction caused by the 50% duty-cycle is
relatively small. It is worth noting that the alpha change has caused the
power of most UEs to rise, which increases the overall interference level, and
the absolute value of the cell throughput decreases relative to the case of
alpha=0.6.
Company 2 (R4-2104922)
The detailed simulation results for band n3 are shown in Table 8.1.3.2-2
Table 8.1.3.2-2: Dynamic system level simulation results
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ** | ** | **Duty | * | ** |** 5% | ** | | Antenna | Maximum | cycle**| *Packet | Arrival | UPT** | Average | | C | Tx | | size**| rate** | | UPT**| | onfigur | Power |**(%)**| | |**( | | | ation**| (dBm)** | | **(k |**(fi | Mbps)**|**( | | | | | Byte)**| le/s)** | | Mbps)** | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+ | 1Tx 4Rx | 23 | 100 | 10 | 5 | 7.95 | 45.45 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 0% | 0% | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1Tx 4Rx | 26 | 100 | 10 | 5 | 10.13 | 56.84 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | +27% | +25% | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1Tx 4Rx | 26 | 50 | 10 | 5 | 8.57 | 56.62 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | +8% | +25% | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2Tx 4Rx | 26 | 100 | 10 | 5 | 10.70 | 57.14 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | +35% | +26% | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2Tx 4Rx | 26 | 50 | 10 | 5 | 9.03 | 56.98 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | +14% | +25% | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Company 3 (R4-2107300, R4-2111446)
In the simulation assumptions, some parameters have more than one set of
values. For the different values, more simulation cases are performed. Table
8.1.3.2-3 and 8.1.3.2-4 provides the simulation results.
Table 8.1.3.2-3: Simulation results for P0 = -76, alpha = 0.8
**Antenna** **Max Tx power/dBm** **Packet size** **Packet arrival rate**
**Cell avg. UPT gain** **5% UPT gain**
* * *
BS: 4R UE: 1T 23 100k Byte 1 file/200ms 100% 100% BS: 4R UE: 1T 26 100k Byte 1
file/200ms 150.11% 100.03% BS: 4R UE: 2T 26 100k Byte 1 file/200ms 147.90%
101.67% BS: 32R UE: 1T 23 100k Byte 1 file/200ms 100% 100% BS: 32R UE: 1T 26
100k Byte 1 file/200ms 150.02% 107.12% BS: 32R UE: 2T 26 100k Byte 1
file/200ms 150.18% 105.24% **Antenna** **Max Tx power/dBm** **Packet size**
**Packet arrival rate** **Cell avg. UPT gain** **5% UPT gain** BS: 4R UE: 1T
23 10k Byte 1 file/200ms 100% 100% BS: 4R UE: 1T 26 10k Byte 1 file/200ms
159.56% 105.72% BS: 4R UE: 2T 26 10k Byte 1 file/200ms 157.07% 105.72% BS: 32R
UE: 1T 23 10k Byte 1 file/200ms 100% 100% BS: 32R UE: 1T 26 10k Byte 1
file/200ms 159.78% 108.69% BS: 32R UE: 2T 26 10k Byte 1 file/200ms 159.77%
108.69% **Antenna** **Max Tx power/dBm** **Packet size** **Packet arrival
rate** **Cell avg. UPT gain** **5% UPT gain** BS: 4R UE: 1T 23 100k Byte 1
file/1s 100% 100% BS: 4R UE: 1T 26 100k Byte 1 file/1s 151.88% 100.82% BS: 4R
UE: 2T 26 100k Byte 1 file/1s 156.11% 100.53% BS: 32R UE: 1T 23 100k Byte 1
file/1s 100% 100% BS: 32R UE: 1T 26 100k Byte 1 file/1s 152.96% 102.23% BS:
32R UE: 2T 26 100k Byte 1 file/1s 155.44% 100.15% **Antenna** **Max Tx
power/dBm** **Packet size** **Packet arrival rate** **Cell avg. UPT gain**
**5% UPT gain** BS: 4R UE: 1T 23 10k Byte 1 file/1s 100% 100% BS: 4R UE: 1T 26
10k Byte 1 file/1s 161.03% 106.45% BS: 4R UE: 2T 26 10k Byte 1 file/1s 160.06%
106.45% BS: 32R UE: 1T 23 10k Byte 1 file/1s 100% 100% BS: 32R UE: 1T 26 10k
Byte 1 file/1s 161.34% 108.69% BS: 32R UE: 2T 26 10k Byte 1 file/1s 160.23%
108.69%
Table 8.1.3.2-4: Simulation results for P0 = -76, alpha = 0.8
**Antenna** **Max Tx power/dBm** **Packet size** **Packet arrival rate**
**Cell avg. UPT gain** **5% UPT gain**
* * *
BS: 4R UE: 1T 23 10k Byte 1 file/200ms 100% 100% BS: 4R UE: 1T 26 10k Byte 1
file/200ms 167.50% 109.1%
#### 8.1.3.3 P0 = -60, alpha = 0.6
Company 2 (R4-2109763)
Table 8.1.3.3-1: Dynamic system level simulation results for 10kB packet size
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ** | ** | **Duty | * | ** |** 5% | ** | | Antenna | Maximum | cycle**| *Packet | Arrival | UPT** | Average | | C | Tx | | size**| rate** | | UPT**| | onfigur | Power |**(%)**| | |**( | | | ation**| (dBm)** | | **(k |**(fi | Mbps)**|**( | | | | | Byte)**| le/s)** | | Mbps)** | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+ | 1Tx 4Rx | 23 | 100 | 10 | 5 | 20.65 | 63.81 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 0% | 0% | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1Tx 4Rx | 26 | 100 | 10 | 5 | 31.66 | 72.38 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | +53% | +13% | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1Tx 4Rx | 26 | 50 | 10 | 5 | 32.69 | 72.43 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | +58% | +14% | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2Tx 4Rx | 26 | 100 | 10 | 5 | 31.87 | 73.22 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | +54% | +15% | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2Tx 4Rx | 26 | 50 | 10 | 5 | 32.31 | 73.22 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | +56% | +15% | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Company 3 (R4-2107300)
Table 8.1.3.3-2: Simulation results for P0 = -60, alpha = 0.6
**Antenna** **Max Tx power/dBm** **Packet size** **Packet arrival rate**
**Cell avg. UPT gain** **5% UPT gain**
* * *
BS: 4R UE: 1T 23 100k Byte 1 file/200ms 100% 100% BS: 4R UE: 1T 26 100k Byte 1
file/200ms 148.14% 100.03% BS: 4R UE: 2T 26 100k Byte 1 file/200ms 143.43%
108.01% BS: 32R UE: 1T 23 100k Byte 1 file/200ms 100% 100% BS: 32R UE: 1T 26
100k Byte 1 file/200ms 151.49% 100.97% BS: 32R UE: 2T 26 100k Byte 1
file/200ms 151.38% 104.57% **Antenna** **Max Tx power/dBm** **Packet size**
**Packet arrival rate** **Cell avg. UPT gain** **5% UPT gain** BS: 4R UE: 1T
23 10k Byte 1 file/200ms 100% 100% BS: 4R UE: 1T 26 10k Byte 1 file/200ms
160.12% 105.72% BS: 4R UE: 2T 26 10k Byte 1 file/200ms 157.12% 105.72% BS: 32R
UE: 1T 23 10k Byte 1 file/200ms 100% 100% BS: 32R UE: 1T 26 10k Byte 1
file/200ms 163.25% 108.69% BS: 32R UE: 2T 26 10k Byte 1 file/200ms 163.12%
108.69% **Antenna** **Max Tx power/dBm** **Packet size** **Packet arrival
rate** **Cell avg. UPT gain** **5% UPT gain** BS: 4R UE: 1T 23 100k Byte 1
file/1 s 100% 100% BS: 4R UE: 1T 26 100k Byte 1 file/1 s 153.16% 100.78% BS:
4R UE: 2T 26 100k Byte 1 file/1 s 151.74% 104.03% BS: 32R UE: 1T 23 100k Byte
1 file/1 s 100% 100% BS: 32R UE: 1T 26 100k Byte 1 file/1 s 155.10% 102.41%
BS: 32R UE: 2T 26 100k Byte 1 file/1 s 154.49% 102.41% **Antenna** **Max Tx
power/dBm** **Packet size** **Packet arrival rate** **Cell avg. UPT gain**
**5% UPT gain** BS: 4R UE: 1T 23 10k Byte 1 file/1 s 100% 100% BS: 4R UE: 1T
26 10k Byte 1 file/1 s 162.77% 106.45% BS: 4R UE: 2T 26 10k Byte 1 file/1 s
161.15% 106.45% BS: 32R UE: 1T 23 10k Byte 1 file/1 s 100% 100% BS: 32R UE: 1T
26 10k Byte 1 file/1 s 164.53% 108.69% BS: 32R UE: 2T 26 10k Byte 1 file/1 s
164.49% 108.69%
#### 8.1.3.4 P0 = -60, alpha = 0.8
Company 3 (R4-2107300)
Table 8.1.3.4-1: Simulation results for P0 = -60, alpha = 0.8
**Antenna** **Max Tx power/dBm** **Packet size** **Packet arrival rate**
**Cell avg. UPT gain** **5% UPT gain**
* * *
BS: 4R UE: 1T 23 100k Byte 1 file/200ms 100% 100% BS: 4R UE: 1T 26 100k Byte 1
file/200ms 132.77% 100.02% BS: 4R UE: 2T 26 100k Byte 1 file/200ms 134.44%
100.81% BS: 32R UE: 1T 23 100k Byte 1 file/200ms 100% 100% BS: 32R UE: 1T 26
100k Byte 1 file/200ms 127.14% 100.52% BS: 32R UE: 2T 26 100k Byte 1
file/200ms 126.51% 102.70% **Antenna** **Max Tx power/dBm** **Packet size**
**Packet arrival rate** **Cell avg. UPT gain** **5% UPT gain** BS: 4R UE: 1T
23 10k Byte 1 file/200ms 100% 100% BS: 4R UE: 1T 26 10k Byte 1 file/200ms
133.91% 105.12% BS: 4R UE: 2T 26 10k Byte 1 file/200ms 132.87% 105.12% BS: 32R
UE: 1T 23 10k Byte 1 file/200ms 100% 100% BS: 32R UE: 1T 26 10k Byte 1
file/200ms 137.62% 107.41% BS: 32R UE: 2T 26 10k Byte 1 file/200ms 136.81%
107.41% **Antenna** **Max Tx power/dBm** **Packet size** **Packet arrival
rate** **Cell avg. UPT gain** **5% UPT gain** BS: 4R UE: 1T 23 100k Byte 1
file/1 s 100% 100% BS: 4R UE: 1T 26 100k Byte 1 file/1 s 127.75% 100.63% BS:
4R UE: 2T 26 100k Byte 1 file/1 s 128.25% 101.69% BS: 32R UE: 1T 23 100k Byte
1 file/1 s 100% 100% BS: 32R UE: 1T 26 100k Byte 1 file/1 s 125.74% 101.48%
BS: 32R UE: 2T 26 100k Byte 1 file/1 s 124.84% 105.37% **Antenna** **Max Tx
power/dBm** **Packet size** **Packet arrival rate** **Cell avg. UPT gain**
**5% UPT gain** BS: 4R UE: 1T 23 10k Byte 1 file/1 s 100% 100% BS: 4R UE: 1T
26 10k Byte 1 file/1 s 133.45% 106.45% BS: 4R UE: 2T 26 10k Byte 1 file/1 s
133.46% 106.45% BS: 32R UE: 1T 23 10k Byte 1 file/1 s 100% 100% BS: 32R UE: 1T
26 10k Byte 1 file/1 s 137.95% 107.41% BS: 32R UE: 2T 26 10k Byte 1 file/1 s
137.70% 107.41%
#### 8.1.3.5 Other
Company 1 (R4-2109699, R4-2113025)
In addition, the statistics of resource utilization (RU) are shown in Table
8.1.3.5.1-1
Table 8.1.3.5-1: The resource utilization in simulation
**Alpha = 0.6** **Alpha = 0.8**
* * *
14.4% 2.3%
Resource utilization is at a relatively low level which may cause some
potential simulation vulnerabilities. Low resource utilization may mean that
high-power users at the edge complete data transmission quickly, and there
will be no scheduling conflicts between different UEs. This will cause the
interference increase caused by high power to be hidden. To remedy this
problem, some simulation results of higher resource utilization are provided
as Table 8.1.3.5.1-2 and Table 8.1.3.5.1-3.
Table 8.1.3.5-2: High data density transmission simulation result
（alpha =0.6, 100% duty-cycle)
|  | PC3（baseline） | PC2 |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
packet size (k Byte) | arrival rate (file/s) | (RU (%) | Cell avg. UPT /Mbps | 5% UPT /Mbps | RU (%) | Cell avg. UPT /Mbps | 5% UPT /Mbps | Cell avg. UPT gain | 5% UPT gain  
100K | 10 | 32.81 | 184.85 | 2.76 | 34.36 | 186.17 | 3.78 | 0.72% | 37.1%  
100K | 20 | 54.83 | 166.9 | 1.75 | 57.18 | 167.31 | 2.39 | 0.24% | 36.1%  
100K | 40 | 80.3 | 136.6 | 0.15 | 82.5 | 135.9 | 0.16 | -0.48% | 7.5%  
Table 8.1.3.5-3: High data density transmission simulation result
（alpha =0.8, 100% duty-cycle）
|  | PC3（baseline） | PC2 |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
packet size (k Byte) | arrival rate (file/s) | (RU (%) | Cell avg. UPT /Mbps | 5% UPT /Mbps | RU (%) | Cell avg. UPT /Mbps | 5% UPT /Mbps | Cell avg. UPT gain | 5% UPT gain  
500K | 10 | 23.46 | 268.42 | 0.06 | 24.32 | 340.37 | 0.066 | 26.8% | 10%  
500K | 20 | 35.80 | 235.8 | 0.052 | 38.76 | 296.97 | 0.056 | 25.9% | 7.7%  
500K | 40 | 47.43 | 215.1 | 0.045 | 53.7 | 262.86 | 0.0453 | 22.2% | 0.5%  
The result shows that when the resource utilization increase, the system
performance gain of cell average still considerable. However, the performance
of cell edge will be tiny when the RU rise to about 50%. Note that under the
same traffic model, the RU of PC2 UE will be slightly larger than that of PC3.
This is caused by the decrease in SINR due to increased interference at high
power.
Company 3 (R4-2111446)
Figure 8.1.3.5-1 shows the CDF curve of the UE. From Figure 1, although the
interference increases with the increase of transmit power of PC2 UE, there is
still 1dB gain compared with the PC3 UE. And Figure 8.1.3.5-2 shows the actual
number of scheduled RB for the PC2 UE and PC3 UE sorted by UE throughput. For
the cell edge UE (5% UPT UE), the number of the scheduled RB for PC2 UE is
more than twice of the PC3 UE. Therefore, even though the PC2 UE has 50%
restriction, due to the gain of the SINR and the more scheduled RB for PC2 UE,
the average and cell edge cases could have an obvious performance gain.
{width="3.513888888888889in" height="2.888888888888889in"}
Figure 8.1.3.5-1 SINR CDF of PC2 UE (50% duty cycle) and PC3 UE (100% duty
cycle)
{width="3.6875in" height="2.8333333333333335in"}
Figure 8.1.3.5-2 Number of scheduled RB per UE sorted by the UE throughput
## 8.2 Monte Carlo simulation
8.2.1 Simulation methodology
The Monte Carlo based static system level simulation is typical simulation
method used in the coexistence study and can also be used for the simplified
system performance evaluation. The sub-snapshot method is agreed as one of
possible methods to simulate the HPUE feature.
The difference for UL duty cycle is emulated by assuming there are N sub-
snapshots within one snapshot. For example, we can set N=2 for the case of 50%
duty cycle for FDD HPUE. Similarly, we can set N=4 for the case of 25% duty
cycle. In each snapshot, UEs are randomly placed in a predefined deployment
scenario. But within one snapshot, the UEs' locations for N sub-snapshots are
fixed. Table 8.2.1-1 illustrates the sub-snapshot concept and the simulation
method. When the simulation performance is assumed to be measured within one
frame (e.g., 10ms) and only 50% time can be used for UL transmission within
one frame assuming 50% duty cycle. Then each sub-snapshot can be considered as
5ms in the Monte-Carlo simulation.
Table 8.2.1-1. An example to compare FDD PC2 UE (50% DC) and FDD PC3 UE (100%
DC)
+----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | UE type | The first | The second | UL duty cycle | | | sub-snapshot | sub-snapshot | | +================+================+================+===============+ | FDD PC3 UEs | Max. Tx power | Max. Tx power | 100% | | | is 23dBm | is 23dBm | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | FDD PC2 UEs | Max. Tx power | No | 50% | | with | is 26dBm | transmission | | | transmission | | | | | power >23dBm | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | Note 1: For | | | | | PC2 UEs with | | | | | transmission | | | | | power ≤ 23dBm, | | | | | there is no | | | | | need to reduce | | | | | the UL duty | | | | | cycle since | | | | | there is no | | | | | SAR issue. | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: For | | | | | simplicity, | | | | | 50% UL duty | | | | | cycle will be | | | | | applied once | | | | | PC2 UEs | | | | | transmit power | | | | | is larger than | | | | | 23dBm. | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: PC2 | | | | | UEs with 50% | | | | | UL duty can | | | | | randomly | | | | | transmit power | | | | | at the first | | | | | or the second | | | | | sub-snapshot. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+
Non-full buffer and full buffer scenarios are both considered in the
simulation. For the non-full buffer scenario, the resource will not be used in
the sub-snapshot which there is no transmission for the UE with >23dBm Tx
power. For the full buffer scenario, a new user will be scheduled in one of
the two sub-snapshots when the UE with >23dBm Tx power will not transmit in
that correspondent sub-snapshot due to 50% duty cycle.
There are also other evaluation methods can be implemented to stimulate the
duty cycle in the Monte Carlo simulation, such as drawing a random number in
each snapshot. If the random number is larger than the duty cycle, then the
HPUE will be replaced with another UE; If the random number is less than the
duty cycle, then the HPUE will transmit normally with Tx power up to 26 dBm.
8.2.2 Simulation assumptions
The simulation assumptions using Monte-Carlo simulation are as Table 8.2.2-1.
Table 8.2.2-1. System Assumptions
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Base Station | UE | +======================+======================+======================+ | Carrier frequency | 2GHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel bandwidth | 40MHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Active UE number in | 3 | | | UL | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PC2 UE ratio | 25%, 50%, 100% | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Inter-site distance | 750m | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell layout | Wrap-around 19 | | | | tri-sector cells | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Lognormal fading | 10 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Shadowing | Between cells: 0.5, | | | correlation | between sites: 1.0 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MCL (including | 70 dB (urban) | | | antenna gain) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna gain and | $A\left( \ | Omni-directional | | horizontal antenna | theta \right) = - \m | antenna with -3.5 | | pattern | in\lbrack\ 12\ \left | dBi. | | | ( \ \frac{\theta}{\t | | | | heta_{3dB}}\ \right | | | | )^{2},A_{m}\rbrack$, | | | | | | | | 17 dBi, | | | | $\theta_{3dB}$ = 65 | | | | degrees, | | | | | | | | Am = 20 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Noise figure | 5 dB | 9 dB | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Transmit power | 46 dBm | 23 dBm for UE, 26dBm | | | | for HPUE | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna height | 45 m | 1.5 m | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The power control (PC) set 4A and 4B are selected for performance evaluation
which refers to TR36.886 chapter 5.10.1.2. The parameters are presented in
Table 8.2.2-2.
Table 8.2.2-2. PC set parameters for 23dBm UE and 26 dBm UE with 0.75 km ISD
Power control set parameter Gamma CLx-ile for BW 40MHz
* * *
                                                                                                                                                 23dBm                  26dBm
Set 4A 1 104 107 Set 4B 1 100 103 Note: The original table in 36.886 is for
20MHz bandwidth, thus the value needed to be adjusted for 40MHz bandwidth
correspondently.
Figure 8.2.2-1 and 8.2.2-2 are the CDF curve of Tx power for power control set
4A and 4B, respectively, to show the difference between FDD PC2 and PC3.
{width="4.159059492563429in" height="3.1180555555555554in"}
Figure 8.2.2-1. UL Tx power CDF for power control set 4A
{width="4.236036745406824in" height="3.175764435695538in"}
Figure 8.8.2-2. UL Tx power CDF for power control set 4B
8.2.3 Simulation results
8.2.3.1 Simulation results for power control set 4A
The ratio of UL Tx power > 23dBm is about 4.9% for power control set 4A.
In a more realistic situation, for example, considering a relatively long-time
duration, the time restriction for UE duty cycle can be relaxed assuming that
UE can keep transmit with >23dBm power in its scheduled duration. After the UE
finishes its transmission, another UE will be scheduled. In this scenario, the
UE can naturally realize the 50% duty cycle by the scheduling time since the
UE will not be always scheduled. The duty cycle then does not need to be
considered in the result processing. Therefore, the system performances are
shown in Table 8.2.3.1-1 and Table 8.2.3.1-2.
Table 8.2.3.1-1. PC2 system performance for non-full buffer case with PC set
4A
when 50% duty cycle is considered in a longer duration
Power control set 4A 4A 4A
* * *
PC2 UE ratio 25% 50% 100% 5% throughput gain 1.22% 2.44% 4.27% Cell throughput
gain 0.40% 1.04% 2.39%
Table 8.2.3.1-2. PC2 system performance for full buffer with PC set 4A
when 50% duty cycle is considered in a longer duration
Power control set 4A 4A 4A
* * *
PC2 UE ratio 25% 50% 100% 5% throughput gain 0.61% 1.83% 3.05% Cell throughput
gain 0.48% 1.12% 2.55%
As shown in Table 8.2.3.1-1 and Table 8.2.3.1-2:
\- When 50% duty cycle can be realized in a longer duration, performance gain
can be observed for the 5% throughput. The gain's value depends on the PC2 UE
ratio and the traffic loading.
\- When 50% duty cycle can be realized in a longer duration, performance gain
can be observed for the average cell throughput. The gain's value depends on
the PC2 UE ratio and the traffic loading.
\- When 50% duty cycle can be realized in a longer duration, higher PC2 UE
ratio will bring higher 5%-throughput gain as well as the average cell
throughput gain. The system performance gain is highly related with PC2 UE
ratio.
8.2.3.2 Simulation results for power control set 4B
The Tx power ratio UL Tx power > 23dBm is about 17.8% for power control set
4B.
Similar consideration is applied, when 50% duty cycle can be realized in a
longer duration, the 50% duty cycle need not be considered in the performance
processing. Therefore, the system performance is shown in Table 8.2.3.2-1 and
Table 8.2.3.2-2.
Table 8.2.3.2-1. PC2 system performance for non-full buffer with PC set 4B
when 50% duty cycle is considered in a longer duration
Power control set 4B 4B 4B
* * *
PC2 UE ratio 25% 50% 100% 5% throughput gain 5.13% 10.26% 17.31% Cell
throughput gain 0.81% 1.98% 5.50%
Table 8.2.3.2-2. PC2 system performance for full buffer with PC set 4B
when 50% duty cycle is considered in a longer duration
Power control set 4B 4B 4B
* * *
PC2 UE ratio 25% 50% 100% 5% throughput gain 3.85% 8.33% 15.38% Cell
throughput gain 1.03% 2.20% 4.84%
**From the simulation results shown in chapter 8.2.3.2, the similar
performance variance trend can be observed for the power control set 4B,
compared with power control set 4A.**
8.2.3.3 Simulation observations
The system performance is sensitive to the power control set parameters. In
realistic situation, where several UEs are multiplexed in the same cell, non-
negligible gain in UL performance can be observed in both mean and 5%-tile
throughput.
# 9 SI Conclusion
In this study item, different aspects of enabling PC2 in NR FDD band n1 and n3
are thoroughly studied. The contents of the study include the applicable
schemes to comply with SAR limits with 26dBm UE Tx power, the interference
issues raised by FDD PC2, UE implementation and RF architectures, as well as
system performance evaluation to support NR FDD HPUE.
Several SAR compliance solutions are studied and discussed in RAN4, including
UE-implementation based methods, reusing of existing duty-cycle reporting
method, and half-duplex operation method. After careful studies and thorough
discussions, the UE-implementation based methods are considered feasible to
make sure SAR regulation is not violated. In addition, optional feature of
applying duty cycle is also considered, as a standardized solution, to solve
SAR compliance issue.
Regarding the interference issues, it was identified by the group that both
MSD and UL configuration are possible alternatives to handle REFSENS
degradation in FDD PC2, and the MSD method will be adopted for the cases of n1
and n3 PC2. MSD values can first be calculated based on available RF
components and existing assumptions. If there are new components available in
the future with better performance, new assumptions can also be considered for
MSD calculations.
In order to support 26dBm UE Tx power, two RF architectures (i.e. 2Tx×23dBm
and 1Tx×26dBm) are considered and agreed during the study. It is found out
that FDD HPUE with 2Tx architecture is feasible and can reuse existing RF
components targeted for PC3, while 1Tx may need to use newly designed
components. So further analyses of 1Tx architecture could be carried out when
the new components become available.
To fully evaluate the impacts of FDD HPUE to the system performance, Dynamic
system level simulations and Monte Carlo simulations are carried out. In
dynamic system level simulation, performance gain for both cell average and
cell edge cases are verified under various power control parameters. On the
other hand, performance gain can be observed for the 5%-tile throughput and
average cell throughput under Monte Carlo simulation. The potential DL
degradation due to Tx/Rx de-sense does not lead to substantial performance
degradation in typical interference limited scenarios.
In conclusion, it is shown in this SI that high power UE (power class 2) for
NR FDD band brings positive system performance gain to the network, and it is
feasible to reuse existing RF components to support 26dBm UE Tx power, while
new components with performance improvement are also expected to be available
in the future. UE implementation based solution (P-MPR) is used for SAR
compliance. There is no consensus on the optional report of duty cycle
capability, but duty cycle used as an UE implementation method is not
precluded. Specific MSD values and other specification impact(s) will be
determined in the Work Item phase.
# Annex \ (informative): Change history
**Change history**
* * *
**Date** **Meeting** **TDoc** **CR** **Rev** **Cat** **Subject/Comment** **New
version** 2021-04 RAN4-98-bis-e R4-2106912 Initial TR skeleton 0.0.1 2021-05
RAN4-99-e R4-2110798 TP to TR38.861: Simulation results for FDD HPUE 0.1.0
2021-05 RAN4-99-e R4-2108866 TR 38.861 v0.1.0 FS_NR_PC2_UE_FDD 0.1.0 2021-06
RAN-92-e RP-211346 TR 38.861 v1.0.0 FS_NR_PC2_UE_FDD 1.0.0 2021-08 RAN4-100-e
R4-2115062 TP for TR 38.861: Conclusion of SI for FDD HPUE 1.1.0 2021-08
RAN4-100-e R4-2115063 TP on Sensitivity analysis results and UE implementation
for PC2 FDD band 1.1.0 2021-08 RAN4-100-e R4-2113001 TP to TR38.861 Dynamic
system level simulation results for FDD HPUE 1.1.0