# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for the study item of APT 600 MHz
NR FDD band.
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
[2] R4-2103270 Work plan of study on extended 600MHz NR band, Spark NZ Ltd,
RAN4#98e
[3] 3GPP TR 36.755: \"US 600 MHz band for LTE"
[4] ITU-R, "Radio Regulations"
[5] APT/AWG, Report 79, "Frequency Arrangements for IMT in the bands 470- 698
MHz".
[6] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception"
[7] ITU-R, Res 224, "Frequency bands for the terrestrial component of
International Mobile Telecommunications below 1 GHz" WRC 2019
[8] R4-2110978, "TP for TR 38.860: Filter option B1", Qualcomm Incorporated
[9] R4-2110165, "TP to TR38.860 on band plan and duplex filter considerations
for 600 MHz", Apple
[10] R4-2111045, "TP to TR 38.860: B1 full band filter feasibility analysis",
Huawei
[11] RP-202143, "Liaison Statement to 3GPP RAN, 3GPP RAN4 by the 26^th^
Meeting of the APT Wireless Group (AWG-26)", APT
[12] RP-202924, "Study on extended 600MHz NR band", Spark NZ, CBN
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905[1]
and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage RatioB1A35 Lower duplexer of the option B1 with
the split duplexers
B1B35 Upper duplexer of the option B1 with the split duplexers
B1F Option B1 with full band duplexer
B1X25 Outer 25 MHz duplexer for B1 option
B2F Option B2 with full band duplexer
B2A35 Lower duplexer of the option B2 with the split duplexers
B2B35 Upper duplexer of the option B2 with the split duplexers
BS Base Station
BW Bandwidth
CH36 DTV Channel #36
DL Downlink
DTV Digital Television
EARFCN E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
FCC Federal Communications Commission
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
IL Insertion Loss
IMT International Mobile Telecommunications
n71F Full band n71 filter
nX New band for eh B2a option
RAS Radio Astronomy Service
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity
RF Radio Frequency
TC SAW Temperature Compensated Surface Acoustic Wave
TX Transmitter
UE User Equipment
UHF Ultra High Frequency
UL Uplink
# 4 Background
## 4.1 General
_During the RAN #90e meeting a new study item was agreed [12] to study various
band configurations for the 600 MHz band in ITU R Region 3.A liaison statement
from the APT Wireless Group (AWG) [11] was also received that had two filter
combinations- namely B1 and B2 as candidates for study._
_The objectives for the extended 600 MHz study item are listed below:_
\- Regulatory study of the frequency range around 600 MHz in Region 3
\- Co -existence study for the frequency range of 612-652/663-703MHz such as
with DTV (if needed)
\- Study potential frequency arrangements and conclude the possible
implications (such as insertion loss, transmitter and receiver characteristics
for both the BS and UE, system limitations such as channel bandwidths etc.) of
different duplex filter implementations.
\- Consider options B1 and B2 from AWG LS [11] but other options are not
precluded.
\- Answer the request from AWG regarding technical feasibility of option B1
and B2 respectively. Further options are not precluded and may be included in
LS to AWG.
> NOTE: Since regulatory study of frequency range around 600 MHz is for Region
> 3, the SI outcome will not impact any requirements defined for US 600 MHz
> band.
Furthermore, for option B2 including four different suggested sizes of the
second duplexer overlapping with the US600 band n71, feedback on different
suggested sizes of the second duplexer from a feasibility and cost-efficient
perspective were requested by APT.
Details of options B1 and B2 are based on inputs provided by APT LS [11] and
in the work plan in [2] and provided in clauses 4.2 and 4.3, respectively.
RAN4 feasibility analyses for options B1, B2 and B2a are provided in clauses
6.4 respectively. RAN4 decided not to provide any final recommendation on the
frequency arrangements to apply in the frequency range in question. Decision
on the frequency arrangement is to be taken by the AWG regulatory body.
_The above studies have been on going in RAN4 meetings. The present document
documents the results of the studies._
_3GPP band 28 and US 600 MHz bands [3] are shown below in Figure 4.1-1:_
{width="6.268055555555556in" height="1.0819444444444444in"}
Figure 4.1-1: US 600 MHz band (n71) and 3GPP band 28
_By examining the US 600 MHz band [3] it is noted that the band extends only
up to 698 MHz leaving the range 698 - 703 MHz unusable._
_The objective of the SI is to study spectrum options that will enable usage
of 698- 703 MHz._
There are three duplex filter options considered in the present document.
## 4.2 Options for study: B1
This option is based on an extension to band n71 and is shown on figure 4.2-1.
There are three cases, a single filter and two overlapping duplexer options
case shown below.
{width="5.96875in" height="5.802083333333333in"}
Figure 4.2-1: Filter options B1
The full band duplexer has a duplex spacing of 51 MHz.
The cases of dual duplexers demonstrate two different arrangements:
\- The first option B1 35 + 35 maintains same duplex spacing (i.e. 51 MHz) in
both duplexers
\- The second option B1 35 + 25 has an n71 duplexer and 25 MHz wide second
duplexer. In this case, the duplex spacing for both duplexers is different,
i.e. 46 MHz and 66 MHz respectively.
## 4.3 Options for study: B2
This option uses two duplexers as shown in Figure 4.3-1 and the duplex
distance is 46 MHz. Also the bottom duplexer is the same as that of band n71,
with an additional upper duplexer that should have as large possible overlap
as possible with the lower duplexer but at the same time being able to handle
the duplex gap of 6 MHz. The size of this upper duplexer needs to be studied
and decided prior to being specified. It can be considered to have variable
bandwidths ranging from 35 MHz to 25 MHz respectively. Like option B1, this
arrangement B2 is also a reversed duplex arrangement.
There are three cases, all with overlapping duplexers but in all cases one of
the duplexers is that of US 600 MHz band.
{width="5.385416666666667in" height="5.96875in"}
Figure 4.3-1: Filter options B2
## 4.4 Options for study B2a
It is proposed to use band 71/n71 as is covering the frequency range 663 \--
698 MHz for UL and 617-652 MHz for DL in the APT region and specify a new band
covering at least the additional 2x 5 MHz spectrum proposed in the SI, but it
could also support up to 2x 30 MHz to maximize the overlap with band 71/n71.
The new band plan for a 2x 30 MHz overlapping duplexer could look like shown
in Figure 4.4-1 below.
{width="6.239583333333333in" height="1.84375in"}
Figure 4.4-1
The above option consists of two bands, the existing NR operating band n71 and
a new band labelled as band nX for the purpose of this TR.
# 5 Regulatory landscape
## 5.1 General
**The 470 - 694 MHz frequency range is allocated to the broadcasting service
and mobile service on a co-primary basis in Region 3 [4].** The frequency band
470 - 698 MHz, or parts thereof, was identified by WRC-15 in 7 countries in
Region 3 through footnote No. 5.296A for use by those administrations as
listed wishing to implement terrestrial IMT systems. In addition, there was
interest from other significant markets to do the same. Elsewhere, USA, Mexico
and several other countries in Region 2 also identified this band for IMT
through footnotes 5.295 and 5.308A. It is noted that resolves 2 of [7]
Resolution 224 (Rev.WRC-19) states that :
> _to encourage administrations to take into account results of the existing
> relevant ITU Radiocommunication Sector studies, when implementing IMT
> applications/systems in the frequency bands 694-862 MHz in Region 1, in the
> frequency band 470-806 MHz in Region 2, in the frequency band 790-862 MHz in
> Region 3, in the frequency band 470-698 MHz, or portions thereof, for those
> administrations mentioned in No.__5.296A_ _, and in the frequency band
> 698-790 MHz, or portions thereof, for those administrations mentioned in
> No.__5.313A_ **
The regulatory landscape overview for all regions in frequency range 470 \--
694 MHz is provided in Table 5.1-1, based on ITU radio regulations [4].
Table 5.1-1: ITU-R frequency allocation to services [4]
{width="5.885416666666667in" height="7.041666666666667in"}
NOTE: Since regulatory study of frequency range around 600 MHz is for Region
3, the outcomes of the present document item will not impact any requirements
defined for US 600 MHz band, i.e. band n71.
The footnotes in [4] referred in this clause are listed:
> _"5.149 In making assignments to stations of other services to which the
> bands: 13 360-13 410 kHz, 25 550-25 670 kHz, 37.5-38.25 MHz, 73-74.6 MHz in
> Regions 1 and 3, 150.05-153 MHz in Region 1, 322-328.6 MHz, 406.1-410 MHz,
> 608-614 MHz in Regions 1 and 3, 1 330-1 400 MHz, 1 610.6-1 613.8 MHz, 1
> 660-1 670 MHz, 1 718.8-1 722.2 MHz, 2 655-2 690 MHz, 3 260-3 267 MHz, 3
> 332-3 339 MHz, 3 345.8-3 352.5 MHz, 4 825-4 835 MHz, 4 950-4 990 MHz, 4
> 990-5 000 MHz, 6 650-6 675.2 MHz, 10.6-10.68 GHz, 14.47-14.5 GHz,
> 22.01-22.21 GHz, 22.21-22.5 GHz, 22.81-22.86 GHz, 23.07-23.12 GHz, 31.2-31.3
> GHz, 31.5-31.8 GHz in Regions 1 and 3, 36.43-36.5 GHz, 42.5-43.5 GHz,
> 48.94-49.04 GHz, 76-86 GHz, 92-94 GHz, 94.1-100 GHz, 102-109.5 GHz,
> 111.8-114.25 GHz, 128.33-128.59 GHz, 129.23-129.49 GHz, 130-134 GHz,
> 136-148.5 GHz, 151.5-158.5 GHz, 168.59-168.93 GHz, 171.11-171.45 GHz,
> 172.31-172.65 GHz, 173.52-173.85 GHz, 195.75-196.15 GHz, 209-226 GHz,
> 241-250 GHz, 252-275_ GHz are allocated, _administrations are urged to take
> all practicable steps to protect the radio astronomy service from harmful
> interference. Emissions from spaceborne or airborne stations can be
> particularly serious sources of interference to the radio astronomy service
> (see Nos. 4.5 and 4.6 and Article 29). (WRC-07)_
_5.295 In the Bahamas, Barbados, Canada, the United States and Mexico, the
frequency band 470-608 MHz, or_
> _portions thereof, is identified for International Mobile Telecommunications
> (IMT) -- see Resolution 224 (Rev.WRC-19). This identification does not
> preclude the use of these frequency bands by any application of the services
> to which they are allocated and does not establish priority in the Radio
> Regulations. Mobile service stations of the IMT system within the frequency
> band are subject to agreement obtained under No. 9.21 and shall not cause
> harmful interference to, or claim protection from, the broadcasting service
> of neighboring countries. Nos. 5.43 and 5.43A apply. (WRC-19)_
>
> **_5.296A_ * In Micronesia, the Solomon Islands, Tuvalu and Vanuatu, the
> frequency band 470-698 MHz, or portions thereof, and in Bangladesh, Maldives
> and New Zealand, the frequency band 610-698 MHz, or portions thereof, are
> identified for use by these administrations wishing to implement
> International Mobile Telecommunications (IMT) -- see Resolution **224
> (Rev.WRC-19)**. This identification does not preclude the use of these
> frequency bands by any application of the services to which they are
> allocated and does not establish priority in the Radio Regulations. The
> mobile allocation in this frequency band shall not be used for IMT systems
> unless subject to agreement obtained under No.** 9.21**and shall not cause
> harmful interference to, or claim protection from, the broadcasting service
> of neighboring countries. Nos.** 5.43**and** 5.43A*_apply. (WRC-19)_
>
> _**5.305** Additional allocation: in China, the band 606-614 MHz is also
> allocated to the radio astronomy service on a primary basis._
>
> **_5.306_ * Additional allocation: in Region 1, except in the African
> Broadcasting Area (see Nos. **5.10**to** 5.13*_), and_
>
> _in Region 3, the band 608-614 MHz is also allocated to the radio astronomy
> service on a secondary basis._
>
> _**5.307** Additional allocation: in India, the band 608-614 MHz is also
> allocated to the radio astronomy service on a primary basis._
_5.308A In the Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Canada, Colombia, the United States,
Guatemala and Mexico, the_
> _frequency band 614-698 MHz, or portions thereof, is identified for
> International Mobile Telecommunications (IMT) -- see Resolution 224
> (Rev.WRC-19). This identification does not preclude the use of these
> frequency bands by any application of the services to which they are
> allocated and does not establish priority in the Radio Regulations. Mobile
> service stations of the IMT system within the frequency band are subject to
> agreement obtained under No. 9.21 and shall not cause harmful interference
> to, or claim protection from, the broadcasting service of neighboring
> countries. Nos. 5.43 and 5.43A apply. (WRC-19)_
>
> _**5.313A** The frequency band, or portions of the frequency band 698-790
> MHz, in Australia, Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, China, Korea
> (Rep. of), Fiji, India, Indonesia, Japan, Kiribati, Lao P.D.R., Malaysia,
> Myanmar (Union of), New Zealand, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, the
> Philippines, the Dem. People's Rep. of Korea, Solomon Islands, Samoa,
> Singapore, Thailand, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu and Viet Nam, are identified for
> use by these administrations wishing to implement International Mobile
> Telecommunications (IMT). This identification does not preclude the use of
> these frequency bands by any application of the services to which they are
> allocated and does not establish priority in the Radio Regulations.
> (WRC-19)"._
## 5.2 ITU Region 3
ITU Region 3 specific regulatory aspects for the frequency range 470 -- 694
MHz are provided in this clause.
Referring to the APT LS, AWG-26 agreed to undertake the study to revise the
APT/AWG/REP-79 [5] to develop frequency arrangements in the band 470-703 MHz
for APT Members that wish to implement both the APT700 and a 600 MHz frequency
arrangement that is optimal for APT Members.
According to Radio Regulations, in Region 3, the 610 -- 890 MHz band is
allocated to Fixed Service, Mobile Service and Broadcasting Service on a
primary basis. Additionally, 606 -- 614 MHz band is allocated for Radio
Astronomy Service in China (i.e. footnote 5.305) and band 608 - 614 MHz is
allocated for Radio Astronomy Service in India (i.e. footnote 5.307). Footnote
5.149 urges administrator to _protect the radio astronomy service from harmful
interference._
_Digital television has various channel allocations depending on country
allocations in Region 3. IMT and DTV coexistence may require additional
consideration on a per-country basis, leading to potential need for a guard
band._
_No specific regional regulatory requirements on unwanted emissions were
identified for the IMT operation in_ frequency range 470 -- 694 MHz in Region
3, _so far_.
# 6 Frequency band arrangements and regulatory background
## 6.1 Operating band and channel bandwidth
The band plan for the extended 600 MHz NR band are shown below in Tables 6.1-1
to 6.1-7. Options B1 and B2 have split duplexers, partially overlapping, but
part of the same band. Option B2a has two duplexers, but one is band n71 and
the other is a new band.
The Tx-Rx is \"reverse-duplex\"; in other words, the downlink frequency band
is below the duplex gap while the uplink frequency band is above the duplex
gap. This arrangement is opposite to conventional notation; however, for this
band, it provides the benefit of aligning the uplink band adjacent to 3GPP
band 28 thereby minimizing interference conditions at the 703 MHz boundary.
Table 6.1-1: NR operating band (option B1)
* * *
Uplink (UL) operating band\ Downlink (DL) operating band\ Duplex Mode  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit UE receive
* * *
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~
663 MHz -- 703 MHz 612 MHz -- 652 MHz FDD
* * *
The above could be implemented as a single or overlapping duplexers. In case
of overlapping duplexers, the following option is studied:
Table 6.1-2: Duplexer arrangements (option B1)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | Dup | U | Dow | D | | | | | | lexer | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | type | (UL) | (DL) | Mode | | | | | | | oper | oper | | | | | | | | ating | ating | | | | | | | | band\ | band\ | | | | | | | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | rec | tran | | | | | | | | eive\ | smit\ | | | | | | | | UE | UE | | | | | | | | tra | re | | | | | | | | nsmit | ceive | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+====+=======+=====+ | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | Full | 663 | -- | 703 | 612 | -- | 652 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | 35 + | 663 - | 612 - | FDD | | | | | | 35 | 698 | 647 | | | | | | | | MHz | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 668 - | 617 - | | | | | | | | 703 | 652 | | | | | | | | MHz | MHz | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | | FDD | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n71 + | 663 - | 617 - | FDD | | | | | | 25 | 698 | 652 | | | | | | | | MHz | MHz | ----- | | | | | | Dual | | | FDD | | | | | | 35+25 | 678 - | 612 - | | | | | | | | 703 | 637 | | | | | | | | MHz | MHz | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
Table 6.1-3.: NR operating band (option B2)
* * *
Uplink (UL) operating band\ Downlink (DL) operating band\ Duplex Mode  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit UE receive
* * *
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~
663 MHz -- 703 MHz 617 MHz -- 657 MHz FDD
* * *
The above could be implemented as a single or overlapping duplexers. In case
of overlapping/split duplexers, three sub options are studied.
Table 6.1-4: Duplexer arrangements (option B2 35 + 35)
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Duplexer type | Uplink (UL) | Downlink (DL) | Duplex Mode | | | operating band\ | operating band\ | | | | BS receive\ | BS transmit\ | | | | UE transmit | UE receive | | +=================+=================+=================+=============+ | | F~UL_low~ -- | F~DL_low~ -- | | | | F~UL_high~ | F~DL_high~ | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Duplex 1 | 663 MHz -- 698 | 617MHz -- 652 | FDD | | | MHz | MHz | | | Duplex 2 | | | | | | 668 MHz -- 703 | 622MHz -- 657 | | | | MHz | MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | | | | FDD | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | NOTE: Both | | | | | duplexers will | | | | | be part of the | | | | | same band | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+
Table 6.1-5: Duplexer arrangements (option B2 35+30)
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Duplexer type | Uplink (UL) | Downlink (DL) | Duplex Mode | | | operating band\ | operating band\ | | | | BS receive\ | BS transmit\ | | | | UE transmit | UE receive | | +=================+=================+=================+=============+ | | F~UL_low~ -- | F~DL_low~ -- | | | | F~UL_high~ | F~DL_high~ | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Duplex1 | 663 MHz -- 698 | 617MHz -- 652 | FDD | | | MHz | MHz | | | Duplex 2 | | | | | | 673 MHz -- 703 | 627MHz -- 657 | | | | MHz | MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | | | | FDD | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | NOTE: Both | | | | | duplexers will | | | | | be part of the | | | | | same band | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+
Table 6.1-6: Duplexer arrangements (option B2 35+25)
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Duplexer type | Uplink (UL) | Downlink (DL) | Duplex Mode | | | operating band\ | operating band\ | | | | BS receive\ | BS transmit\ | | | | UE transmit | UE receive | | +=================+=================+=================+=============+ | | F~UL_low~ -- | F~DL_low~ -- | | | | F~UL_high~ | F~DL_high~ | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Duplex 1 | 663 MHz -- 698 | 617MHz -- 652 | FDD | | | MHz | MHz | | | Duplex 2 | | | | | | 678 MHz -- 703 | 632MHz -- 657 | | | | MHz | MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | | | | FDD | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | NOTE: Both | | | | | duplexers will | | | | | be part of the | | | | | same band | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+
Table 6.1-7: NR operating bands (option B2a) [6]
* * *
Operating Bands Uplink (UL) operating band\ Downlink (DL) operating band\
Duplex Mode  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit UE receive
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                           F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~     F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~
n71 663 MHz -- 698 MHz 617 MHz -- 652 MHz FDD
nX 673 MHz -- 703 MHz 627 MHz -- 657 MHz FDD
NOTE: These are two bands, band n71 plus band nX. A UE that complies with NR
requirements in this specification shall also comply with NR Band 71 minimum
requirements
* * *
Tx-Rx separation is shown in Table 6.1-9 and is dependent upon the filter
options.
Table 6.1-9: Default UE TX-RX frequency separation
+--------------------------+---------------------------+ | Filter Option | TX -- RX\ | | | carrier centre frequency\ | | | separation | +==========================+===========================+ | B1 (Full band) | -51 MHz | +--------------------------+---------------------------+ | B1 (duplexer 1) 35 + 35 | -51 MHz | | | | | B1 (duplexer 2) 35 + 35 | -51 MHz | +--------------------------+---------------------------+ | B1 (duplexer 1) n71 + 25 | -46 MHz | +--------------------------+---------------------------+ | B1 (duplexer 2) n71 +25 | 66 MHz | +--------------------------+---------------------------+ | B2 (duplexer 1) | 46 MHz | | | | | B2 (duplexer 2) | | +--------------------------+---------------------------+ | | 46 MHz | +--------------------------+---------------------------+ | B2a | 46 MHz for both bands | +--------------------------+---------------------------+
## 6.2 Void
## 6.3 Nearby non-3GPP services
### 6.3.1 Introduction
During the study item, multiple co-existence scenarios were discussed, with
the aim to identify if dedicated requirements shall be considered in RAN4 for
the possible protection of non-3GPP services.
Adjacent to frequency range considered by APT, the following existing services
are deployed, which are subject to interference protection from 600 MHz
broadband wireless services:
\- DTV service, and
\- Radio Astronomy Service (RAS).
Coexistence aspects between 600 MHz and the above two services are addressed
in the following clause.
Unlicensed TV white space device (secondary service) may be allowed in APT
which is not further discussed assuming that specific protection from 600 MHz
broadband is not required, other than required for DTV protection.
### 6.3.2 Coexistence between 600 MHz and TV services
In Region 3, multiple DTV systems exists with various channel allocations
across countries. Consideration of all such DTV channel allocations would
result in many frequency separation values between the lower edge of an NR
band (DL) and DTV depending on the considered DTV system.
For all the frequency arrangements considered in this study item it was agreed
that no specific emission limits are to be specified in RAN4 for the
protection of DTV from 600 MHz BS. It was decided sufficient to rely on the
general BS spurious emissions limits.
Additionally, the frequency separation between the lower edge of the NR band
(DL) and DTV channel was discussed. It was concluded that due to various DTV
channel arrangements across national regulations, the frequency separation is
considered to be decided by administrators.
Referring to [TR 36.755], broadcast TV services and Band 71/n71 Downlink are
separated by 9 MHz guard band (including channel 37) for FCC channel
arrangement, which is 2 MHz larger than the minimum frequency separation
required by FCC to protect against a TV transmitter interfering with a mobile
broadband UE receiver and an BS transmitter interfering with a TV receiver.
Band 71/n71 guard band value (i.e. 9 MHz guard band is available between the
APT 600 MHz band and DTV service) is also assumed for all frequency
arrangement options for APT.
The TV channels that do not have sufficient guard band may need to be vacated.
It is noted that in some cases TV channel which is not vacated may impact
feasible filtering solutions.
NOTE: Please note, that frequency allocation of option B1 starts 5 MHz lower
than option B2. The referred Band 71/n71 guard bands apply to option B2 as is,
but may need an additional 5 MHz shift down in case of option B1. In addition,
since the research on the minimum frequency separation required by FCC is
conducted in the LTE scenario, for NR system, the additional 5MHz shift down
may not only cause the additional DTV channels need to be vacated, but also
may require further market specific co-existence studies with DTV system,
which are out of scope of this TR. The potential impact may require further
evaluation.
It was concluded that due to various DTV channel arrangements across national
regulations, the frequency separation is considered to be decided by
administrators.
The value of 7 MHz separation derived from the FCC decision on the protection
separation of broadcast from the band 71 can be considered as reference.
For more details on the coexistence analyses between 600 MHz and DTV in Region
2, refer to [TR 36.755].
### 6.3.3 Coexistence between 600 MHz Radio Astronomy Service (RAS)
Radio Astronomy Service (RAS) is a receive-only service that uses highly
sensitive receivers to examine and study radio waves of cosmic origin. The
band 606-614 MHz in China and the band 608 - 614 MHz in India are allocated to
the radio astronomy service on a primary basis, as captured in clause 5.
Referring to [3], FCC requires the geographical separation of 600 MHz base
station from the RAS telescopes. This requirement is assumed as a baseline for
the coexistence with RAS also for APT region until further detail is provided
by these administrations.
ITU-R made a compatibility and sharing studies between the radio astronomy
service and IMT systems. The conclusion, based on measured IMT equipments
indicated that the compatibility between RAS stations and IMT systems can be
achieved using separation distances of order 60 - 80 kilometres between a RAS
antenna and an IMT macro rural base stations, and of order 1 - 20 kilometres
for a mobile terminals (assuming an unwanted emission level of --50 dBm/MHz
and a flat terrain profile).
For all the frequency arrangements considered in this study item, it was
agreed that no BS spurious emissions limits be specified for protection of RAS
services. Any possible protections measured required for the RAS services
protection are considered to be under the responsibility of each
administration considering aspects such as distance separation site
engineering solutions, etc.
## 6.4 Duplex filter implementation issues
6.4.1 Option B1
#### 6.4.1.1 Full band filter
Option B1 is based on spectrum allocation of 663-703 MHz for TX and 612-652
MHz for RX. The first considered approach is to use a full band filter option
B1 as illustrated below.
{width="4.479166666666667in" height="1.5416666666666667in"}
Figure 6.4.1.1-1: Option B1
One advantage of option B1 compared to other filtering options is that B1 is
conducive to a single full-band filter implementation. The potential advantage
of single filter is reduced size and bill-of-materials of the required front-
end and reduced complexity for intra-band carrier aggregation across the
filters and inter-band carrier aggregation with another band in close
frequency proximity when quadplexing is needed are limited. On the other hand,
the performance of a dual filter solution in insertion loss and stop band
attenuation may be superior to a single filter.
For option B1, extending the 35 MHz filter passband to 40 MHz increases the
relative bandwidth from 5.5% to 6.3% at 600 MHz. At the time that Band 28 was
defined, such relative bandwidths were not feasible. However, since that time
with technological advances in filter design and materials, wider relative
bandwidths have now become available. Therefore, from a relative bandwidth
perspective option B1 is regarded as feasible. Considering out-of-band
rejection, the blocking requirement of Band 71/n71 at 12 MHz offset is
considered below when the passband increases to 40 MHz. The filter rejection
is checked at 9 MHz offset since the DTV channel is centered at 12 MHz offset
so its edge is expected at 9 MHz offset. A reduction in filter rejection due
to widening of the passband reduces tolerance to DTV jamming unless the
linearity of the Rx path post filtering is improved to compensate. Tx and Rx
isolation as well as passband insertion loss are also relevant in comparing
the widened filter against the Band 71/n71 filter.
A second level filter simulation implementing design rules and including
packaging parasitic effects but without optimization was conducted and
provided in [8]. The filter technology used is a conventional, mass produced
TC SAW filter technology rather than a more advanced technology and represents
typical performance at this point. The focus of the design effort was on the
transmit side to ensure that emissions and coexistence requirements could be
met, while less effort was placed on the receiver side. The study below
specifically evaluates the ability of the wide B1 filter to meet existing Band
71 filter requirements where the existing Band 71 filter requirements are
those that are listed on the data sheet from the same filter vendor. Although
the Band 71 filter requirements are largely met, there may be a loss in
performance compared to a narrower Band 71 filter using the same generation of
filter technology and the same constraints.
The Tx and Rx insertion loss is first shown.
* * *
{width="3.117972440944882in" height="1.9078007436570428in"}
{width="3.1981386701662293in" height="1.977665135608049in"}
* * *
Figure 6.4.1.1-2.: Tx and Rx insertion losses
On the transmit side, the insertion loss is approaching 3 dB but still meets
the Band 71 filter specification. In comparison to a narrower Band 71 filter
using the same generation of filter technology and the same constraints, an
increase in Tx insertion loss towards the band edge may be expected. Moreover,
the maximum output power for Band n71 provides a lower tolerance of 2.5 dB so
the insertion loss of the Tx filter is not expected to be a problem.
On the receiver side, the insertion loss is approaching 2 dB. The steep drop-
off of the filter at the upper edge of the band at 652 MHz is likely due to
the relatively narrow duplex gap and the need to provide sufficient Tx
isolation. In comparison to a narrower Band 71 filter using the same
generation of filter technology and the same constraints, an increase in Rx
insertion loss may be expected. But since the reference sensitivity
requirement for Band 71 is relatively relaxed to accommodate the noise and
spurious products from the transmitter, it is not expected that the increase
in Rx IL will hinder a device implementing the B1 filter from meeting Band 71
receiver requirements. Moreover, while the duplex gap is relatively narrow for
Band 71 at 11 MHz, the Tx-Rx separation is 46 MHz so the Tx isolation at 11
MHz offset may be slightly compromised if band edge Rx insertion loss needs to
be improved.
The Tx-Rx filter performance is studied next.
* * *
{width="3.209011373578303in" height="1.8723403324584427in"}
{width="3.0104166666666665in" height="1.8456999125109361in"}
* * *
Figure 6.4.1.1-3: Tx and Rx narrowband filter response
On the transmit side, all requirements in the Band 71 Rx band are met. On the
receiver side, all requirements in the Band 71 Tx band are met, although the
rejection is marginal at the 663 MHz edge. Slight filter tuning or shifting
should improve the Tx rejection at the band edge.
Coexistence with Band 29 is also critical for the Band 71 UE. The [6]
specification imposes a requirement of -38 dBm/MHz into the receive band of
Band 29, 717 -- 728 MHz. The Band 71 filter rejection requirement over this
frequency range is met by the wider filter, although the transition band is
steep.
The next aspect to consider is the ability of the filter to reject blockers.
An in-band blocking requirement, as shown below, has been defined for Band n71
to reject interference from a nearby DTV transmission.
Table 6.4.1.1-1: In-band blocking for NR bands with F~DL_high~ \20 >20 \~30 Frequency range (RX) 612-652 MHz 612-652 MHz 612-652 MHz RX
Insertion loss relative to n71 duplexer (dB) +0.5 +0.6dB, expected to come
close to n71 duplexer with optimization \1.5x if | | | B2F | for n71 | too small | reused for | | UL: 663 - | | | gap for the | n71but | | 703 MHz | | | upper 5 MHz | | | | | | and | probably | | DL: 617 - | | | increased | not | | 657 MHz | | | MSD | feasible | | | | | including | | | Duplex | | | for n71 | | | Distance: | | | | | | | | | | | | 46 MHz | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Dual 35 | Reusable | Double the | \~2x | | | MHz* | for n71 | size and | | | | | without | cost of n71 | | | | n71F- | performance | | | | | B2a35/B2B35 | compromises | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Dual 35+25 | Reusable | Reduced | \~1.7x | | | MHz* | for n71 | channel | | | | | without | bandwidth | | | | n71F- | performance | support in | | | | B2a35/B2B25 | compromises | the upper | | | | | | 25 MHz | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
6.4.2.4 Summary of option B2
Single duplexer of full 2x40 MHz:
\- This duplexer implementation supports 663-703 MHz for TX and 617-657 MHz
for RX. Since the duplex gap is just 6 MHz, severe REFSENS issues are
expected. It is practically not feasible.
Dual duplexer with lower duplexer identical to n71:
\- This duplexer implementation is based on the lower duplexer the same as
n71. The same performance as n71, when reusing n71 duplexer, is achieved. Own
band protection may need to be reduced within the upper 5 MHz of the RX band,
however smaller upper duplexer (than 35 MHz) can provide a balanced trade-off,
though the channel bandwidth is restricted in the passband of upper duplexer.
### 6.4.3 Option B2a
#### 6.4.3.1 General
A device that supports the extension of the 600MHz band may choose to also
support the existing 600MHz band, n71, with the same or different hardware.
Specifying a new dual duplexer solution, which accommodates a device that
supports the extension of the 600 MHz band and the existing band n71, which is
already specified allowing at least a dual duplexer architecture, may
introduce implementation challenges. A new dual duplexer band or any other
band that extends beyond the current 600 MHz band definitions would require
new UE designs. To enable existing UE's already on the market, the APT band
plan would need to include the existing band 71/n71 band definition and its
requirements.
One option illustrated below is to use band 71/n71 as is, covering the
frequency range 663-698 MHz for UL and 617-652 MHz for DL in the APT region,
and specify a new band covering at least the additional 2 x 5 MHz spectrum
proposed in the SI, but it could also support up to 2x 30MHz to maximize the
overlap with band 71/n71 to enable CA/DC within the new band. The new band
plan could look like shown in Figure 6.4.3.1-1 below.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="4.177777777777778in"}
Figure 6.4.3.1-1: Band plan proposal for Option B2a
To maximize the overlap to enable CA/DC, option 5 above can specify one new
single duplexer FDD band nX additionally to band n71, which is already
specified. The operating band table can be as shown in Table 6.4.3.1-1 below:
Table 6.4.3.1-1: Operating band table for Option B2a
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **NR operating |** Uplink (UL) | **Downlink |** Duplex | | band**| *operating | (DL) | Mode** | | | band _\ |_ operating | | | | BS receive / | band _\ | | | | UE transmit_ _| BS transmit / | | | | | UE receive_ _| | | |__F~UL_low~ | | | | | -- |__F~DL_low~ | | | | F~UL_high~__| -- | | | | | F~DL_high~_ * | | +================+================+================+================+ | n71 | 663 MHz -- 698 | 617 MHz -- 652 | FDD | | | MHz | MHz | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | nX | 673 MHz -- 703 | 627 MHz -- 657 | FDD | | | MHz | MHz | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE: UE that | | | | | complies with | | | | | the NR Band nX | | | | | minimum | | | | | requirements | | | | | in the present | | | | | document shall | | | | | also comply | | | | | with the NR | | | | | Band n71 | | | | | minimum | | | | | requirements. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.4.3.2 Option B2a with Single Duplexer
Band 71 together with Option B2a span 663-703 MHz for TX and 617-657 MHz for
RX. Since the duplex gap is just 6 MHz, there are challenges to implement it
with a single duplexer using current filter technology.
6.4.3.3 Option B2a with Dual Duplexer
Option B2a can be implemented with a dual duplexer configuration. One duplexer
could cover the frequency range of n71 with 35MHz and 663-698 MHz for TX and
617-652 MHz for RX and the second the additional APT frequencies with a
bandwidth of 35MHz or less, for example for a 30MHz duplexer 673-703 MHz for
TX and 627-657 MHz for RX. Option B2a has no impact on the filter performance
of the Band 71 duplexer.
Due to the small duplex gap there will be an issue to protect the upper part
of the RX band with -50dBm/MHz from the own TX, in case this is specified as a
single band with Option B2. If the band is split into n71 and the additional
frequency range as Option B2a, this issue still exists since the n71 Tx filter
is not able to provide rejection to the upper 652--657 MHz portion of the
downlink in the new band with only 6 MHz separation without, e.g., a
relaxation of the protection requirement.
# 7 List of band specific issues for APT600 MHz frequency band
## 7.1 General
The following general aspect is relevant for discussing reuse of the Band n71
ecosystem: an operating band is designated a band number, which is indicated
as a frequency band indicator (FBI) by the network in the system information
acquired by the UE attaching to a cell or as part of a handover procedure. The
network can indicate more than one frequency band indicator in a serving cell,
sometimes referred to as 'multiple FBI', thus allowing UEs supporting one of
more frequency bands overlapping with the carrier frequency to attach to the
said serving cell/carrier as long as the UE complies with the applicable
requirements for the cell. The (overlapping) frequency bands are indicated in
the IE _frequencyBandList, a list_ containing frequency band(s) to which the
carrier belongs, the UE applies the first listed band that it supports.
Example: for APT 600 MHz, the frequency band indicators for both the APT band
and n71 could be indicated in a cell depending on the band arrangement and the
applicable regulatory requirements in the region.
Consideration of the antenna efficiency is also important for APT 600 MHz
implementation but has not been considered in this study. It is noted that the
extension down to 612 MHz merits further investigation since the relative
antenna bandwidth is further increased.
## 7.2 Unwanted emissions requirements
### 7.2.1 NS values for indicating UE additional requirements
New network signalling (NS) values for indicating the unwanted emissions
requirements applicable for the APT 600 MHz band must be specified unless the
applicable UE unwanted emissions limits in different geographical regions are
either accommodated by either
\- the general NR unwanted emissions requirement according to sub-clause 6.5
of [6] indicated by "NS_01" or
\- the FCC requirements for Band n71 according to sub-clause 6.5.2.3.1 of [6]
indicated by "NS_35".
The latter requirements are repeated below for convenience
Table 7.2.1-1: Additional requirements for \"NS_35\"
* * *
Δf~OOB~\ Channel bandwidth (MHz) / Spectrum emission limit (dBm) Measurement
bandwidth  
(MHz)
* * *
                                                     5                                                         10                      15       20
± 0-0.1 -15 -18 -20 -21 30 kHz
± 0.1-6 -13 -13 -13 -13 100 kHz
± 6-10 -25^1^ -13 -13 -13 100 kHz
± 10-15 -25^1^ -13 -13 100 kHz
± 15-20 -25^1^ -13 100 kHz
± 20-25 -25 1 MHz
NOTE 1: The measurement bandwidth shall be 1 MHz
* * *
and could allow use of n71-capable UEs in an APT 600 MHz deployment for
channel bandwidths up to 20 MHz in case the APT 600 MHz unwanted emissions
requirements for the region of operation are identical or less stringent than
the FCC requirements above.
It is noted that NS values could also be used for other purposes, e.g. for
facilitating compliance with the standard UE-UE band coexistence requirements
across the APT 600 MHz duplex gap.
## 7.3 Economies of scale: n71-capable UEs and APT 600 MHz deployments
### 7.3.1 Option B1
Band n71 is partially overlapping with arrangement B1. Use of multiple FBI for
allowing n71-capable UE in cells of a B1 frequency plan is not straightforward
for the B1 and n71 duplex spacings (TX-RX separation) are different. This
could possibly be resolved by use of asymmetric bandwidths as supported by n71
could possibly be used (asymmetric bandwidths implicitly modify the TX-RX
spacing) if the operator blocks permit.
### 7.3.2 Option B2
Band n71 is overlapping with the lower 35 MHz of arrangement B2. Use of
multiple FBI for allowing n71-capable UE in cells of a B1 frequency plan is
straightforward since the B1 and n71 duplex spacings are the same. Band n71
can be allowed in the cell if the unwanted emissions requirements are those
listed in clause 7.2.1 or if the applicable regulatory requirements in the B2
cell are more relaxed than those indicated by NS_35 (FCC).
A network indicating the FBIs for both the APT 600 band and n71 also supports
operation of n71 UEs in the lower 35 MHz of the B2 arrangements irrespective
of the n71 implementation (split duplexers of full band). Now, UEs supporting
the APT 600 MHz band are likely to be implemented with a n71 lower filter with
up to 35 MHz passband and an additional duplexer covering the remaining part
of B2. Hence, use of multiple FBI in a B2 network with n71 in the list also
covers the B2a option since APT 600 capable UEs would be implemented like UEs
supporting both n71 and the additional band nX of B2a and UEs supporting n71
can attach to the lower 35 MHz of the APT 600 band.
### 7.3.3 Option B2a
Option B2a is based on n71. Use of the B2a option requires that the applicable
unwanted emissions requirements in the region of deployment are as described
in clause 7.2.1 and indicated in a cell by either NS_01 or NS_35. If not, a
new NS value must be specified boy n71. A UE supporting the entire B2(a)
frequency range must support both n71 and the additional band nX. The option
B2a is essentially covered by option B2 with multiple FBI indication.
## 7.4 Band combinations
### 7.4.1 Option B1
Option 1 can be implemented with single full-band UE duplex filter. For CA
combinations of the APT 600 MHz band with other regional bands below 1 GHz,
this can possibly be supported by UEs implemented with a multiplexer (if
feasible) depending on the CA configuration and the antenna performance
required.
CA combinations of the APT 600 MHz band with other regional bands above 1.5
GHz are more readily supported by UEs (using duplexing).
### 7.4.2 Option B2
Option B2 must be implemented with split duplexers in the UE. For CA
combinations of the APT 600 MHz band with other bands below 1 GHz, the split-
duplexer design may require a duplication of a multiplexer implementation (if
feasible).
CA combinations of the APT 600 MHz band with other regional bands above 1.5
GHz are more readily supported by UEs (using duplexing).
### 7.4.3 Option B2a
Option B2a requires UEs supporting both Band n71 and the new Band nX in CA
configurations. Support of CA requires UEs supporting band combinations of
regional bands with both n71 and nX.
# 8\. Conclusion
Option B1 requires that the adjacent broadcast spectrum is repurposed below
612 MHz. The main advantage of this option is that it could be supported with
a single 40 MHz filter (channel bandwidths up to 40 MHz could be supported
with a single duplex filter, the bill of materials for the UE is reduced,
software complexity is reduced, interband CA and EN-DC configurations are more
easily accommodated) while still maintaining Band n71 filter requirements).
Preliminary data show that compliance with the n71 filter requirements
including CH36 blocking requirement would be feasible. With this option B1,
allowing n71 UEs in the network by multiple FBI requires further
investigations since the duplex spacings of band n71 and option B1 are
different.
Option B2 requires that the broadcast spectrum is repurposed below 617 MHz.
For option B2, a single UE filter does not appear to be technically feasible
with state-of-the art technology at this time though may be achievable in the
future as technology advances. Option B2 can be implemented with dual
duplexers, e.g. either 35+35 or 35+25 configuration. UEs supporting B2 could
also support band n71 and thus meet band n71 requirements. Some degradation in
the protection of the own DL band might be expected for the full range due to
the narrow 6 MHz duplex gap. With option B2, network could allow legacy n71
UEs by using multiple FBI within the n71 range of B2 (as long as option B2 SEM
can be accommodated by either NR or n71).
Option B2a would introduce a new band overlapping n71. Carrier aggregation for
B2a would have to rely on the band combinations defined for n71 (the same for
the new band) and the unwanted emissions requirements throughout the B2 range
should be aligned with FCC ones for n71.
Consideration of the antenna efficiency is also important topic but has not
been considered in this study.
#