# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report on band combination handling and
rule collection for RAN4 specifications. The purpose is to create a document
to collect the rules of band combinations, which can be widely known not only
by RAN4 but also by other 3GPP working groups or even by other industrial
partners outside 3GPP. It aims to improve the band combination in the current
RAN4 specifications and collect the rules what RAN4 has been achieved during
the timescale of Rel-17.
This TR contains a band combination specific part. The agreements on the rules
of specifying band combinations, and facilitate understanding of the complex
notations of CA/DC combinations are provided.
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-210773, "New SID: Study on band combination handling in RAN4",
RAN#91-e.
[3] 3GPP TR 38.817-01: "General aspects for User Equipment (UE) Radio
Frequency (RF) for NR".
[4] 3GPP TR 38.101-01: "NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone".
[5] 3GPP TR 38.101-02: "NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone".
[6] 3GPP TR 38.101-03: "NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking operation with other
radios".
[7] RP-202832, "New WID: Introduction of bandwidth combination set 4 (BCS4)
for NR", RAN#90-e.
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**Aggregated Channel Bandwidth** : The RF bandwidth in which a UE transmits
and receives multiple contiguously aggregated carriers.
**Carrier aggregation** : Aggregation of two or more component carriers in
order to support wider transmission bandwidths.
**Carrier aggregation band** : A set of one or more operating bands across
which multiple carriers are aggregated with a specific set of technical
requirements.
**Carrier aggregation bandwidth class** : A class defined by the aggregated
transmission bandwidth configuration and maximum number of component carriers
supported by a UE.
**Carrier aggregation configuration** : A combination of CA operating band(s)
and CA bandwidth class(es) supported by a UE.
**Contiguous carriers** : A set of two or more carriers configured in a
spectrum block where there are no RF requirements based on co-existence for
un-coordinated operation within the spectrum block.
**Fallback group:** Group of carrier aggregation bandwidth classes for which
it is mandatory for a UE to be able to fallback to lower order CA bandwidth
class configuration. It is not mandatory for a UE to be able to fallback to
lower order CA bandwidth class configuration that belong to a different
fallback group.
**Inter-band carrier aggregation:** Carrier aggregation of component carriers
in different operating bands.
NOTE: Carriers aggregated in each band can be contiguous or non-contiguous.
**Intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation** : Contiguous carriers aggregated
in the same operating band.
**Intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation** : Non-contiguous carriers
aggregated in the same operating band.
**Sub-block:** This is one contiguous allocated block of spectrum for
transmission and reception by the same UE. There may be multiple instances of
sub-blocks within an RF bandwidth.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
ΔR~IB,c~ Allowed reference sensitivity relaxation due to support for CA or DC
operation, for serving cell _c_.
ΔT~IB,c~ Allowed maximum configured output power relaxation due to support for
CA or DC operation, for serving cell _c_.
BW~Channel~ Channel bandwidth.
BW~Channel_CA~ Aggregated channel bandwidth, expressed in MHz.
Max() The largest of given numbers.
Min() The smallest of given numbers.
N~RB~ Transmission bandwidth configuration, expressed in units of resource
blocks.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
BCS Bandwidth Combination Set.
BS Base Station.
BW Bandwidth.
CA Carrier aggregation.
CA_nX-nY Inter-band CA of component carrier(s) in one sub-block within Band nX
and component carrier(s) in one sub-block within Band nY where nX and nY are
the applicable NR _operating band_ s.
CC Component carrier.
CR Change Request.
DC Dual Connectivity.
DL Downlink.
E-UTRA Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access.
EN-DC E-UTRA/NR DC.
FDM Frequency Division Multiplexing.
FR Frequency Range.
HPUE High Power UE.
LTE Long Term Evolution.
MOP Maximum Output Power.
MR-DC Multi-radio DC.
NBC Non-backwards Compatible.
NE-DC NR/E-UTRA DC.
NR New Radio.
NR-DC NR/NR DC.
PC Power Class.
RF Radio Frequency.
Rx Receiver.
SCS Subcarrier spacing.
SUL Supplementary uplink.
SR Status Report.
TDM Time Division Multiplex.
TP Text Proposal.
Tx Transmitter.
UE User Equipment.
UL Uplink.
ULSUP Uplink sharing from UE perspective.
V2X Vehicle to Everything.
WI Work Item.
WID Work Item Description.
# 4 Background
At 3GPP RAN#91-e meeting, a new Rel-17 Study Item "Study on band combination
handling in RAN4" was approved. The objectives are as follows,
a) Study the adequate information on what needs for introducing band
combinations and capture TP formats.
b) Collect agreements on the rules and guidelines of specifying band
combinations, such as the notations of CA/DC combinations, etc.
c) Analyse and identify the redundant contents in RAN4 specifications.
d) Study potential future-proof solutions for band combination configuration
tables in RAN4 specifications for concise representation, better readability
and better trackability and editability.
The target is that after the completion of the study item, a guidance on band
combination handling, rule collections and band combination optimization for
RAN4 specifications will be approved. It is suggested to be applied to the
latest RAN4 specifications after the completion of the SI.
# 5 Rules and guidelines of specifying band combinations
## 5.1 General
The notation of the band combinations in the 38.101 specifications as well as
the combination request lists by the operators and the basket WIDs can have
significant impact, as it can become unclear what combination is really meant
in the request or specification in cases of errors. Then the combination may
be misinterpreted, not taken into account when implementing combinations in BS
or UEs or even removed from specs or requests. Also automated processing of
the tables will become difficult with too many bugs.
Generally the notation of band combinations starts with the type of the
configuration (mainly CA or DC), followed by one list (either LTE or NR) or
two lists (first LTE, then NR) of bands with bandwidths. The following types
of band combinations are defined in 3GPP specifications:
Carrier Aggregation: Starts with "CA_" as the first three characters. Then
either a list of LTE or NR carriers is following, where the carriers or bands
are always separated by "-". LTE and NR carriers cannot be combined, that
would be a DC combination. Examples:
\- CA_1A-2A (LTE)
\- CA_n1A-n2A (NR)
\- Examples for wrong notations: CA_1A_2A ("_" instead of "-" between the
carriers/bands), CA-1A-2A (no "_" but "-" after "CA", CA_1A_n2A (this would
need to be a DC combination)
\- NOTE: LTE examples are provided for information only
Dual Connectivity: Starts with "DC_" as the first three characters, then for
EN-DC configurations followed by the list of LTE carriers, a "_" as separation
between the LTE and NR carriers and then the list of NR carriers. For NE-DC
configurations the list begins with NR carriers, a "_" as separation between
the NR and LTE carriers, and then the list of LTE carriers. There are
exceptions for SUL EN-DC combinations, which separate the LTE and NR carriers
by "_SUL_" instead of "_", and contiguous intra-band EN-DC combinations using
"(n)" instead of "_" and the "n" of the first NR band in the list. DC
configurations within LTE or NR just list the carriers after "DC_". For EN-DC
combinations for V2X the "DC_" at the beginning is replaced by V2X_", even if
it is still a EN-DC combination. Examples:
\- DC_1A_n2A (EN-DC)
\- DC_1A-2A (LTE-DC)
\- DC_n1A-n2A (NR-DC)
\- DC_(n)1AA (EN-DC with contiguous intra-band LTE and NR carriers)
\- DC_1(n)AA (NE-DC with contiguous intra-band NR and LTE carriers)
\- DC_1A-(n)2AA (EN-DC with one LTE carrier followed by contiguous intra-band
LTE and NR carriers)
\- DC_2(n)AA-1A (NE-DC with one LTE carrier followed by contiguous intra-band
NR and LTE carriers)
\- DC_n78A_1A-3A (NE-DC)
\- Examples for wrong notations: DC_1A-n2A ("-" instead of "_" between the LTE
and NR carriers/bands for EN-DC combinations), DC-1A-2A (no "_" but "-" after
"DC", DC_n1A_n2A ("_" instead of "-" between the NR carriers/bands for NR-DC
combinations)
Supplementary UL: NR SA configurations start with SUL_ as the first four
characters, as it is only NR without LTE, if it is within an EN-DC combination
there is a _SUL_ between the LTE and the NR part instead of the "SUL_" at the
beginning, using the usual "DC_" as the first characters. For uplink EN-DC
configuration, if TDM operation of uplink sharing from UE perspective (ULSUP)
is chosen, the notation of "_ULSUP-TDM_" is used. The FDM operation of uplink
sharing from UE perspective is not supported in current specifications.
Examples:
\- SUL_n2A-n80A (n80 being the SUL band)
\- DC_1A_SUL_n2A-n80A (n80 being the SUL band)
\- DC_3A_n80A_ULSUP-TDM_n78A (TDM operation on SUL_n78-n80)
In summary the following types and notations are defined:
\- CA_ ...: A Carrier Aggregation configuration followed by the list of either
LTE or NR carriers.
\- DC_ ...: A Dual Connectivity configuration followed by the list of either
LTE carriers for LTE-DC or NR carriers for NR-DC or for EN-DC first LTE
carriers, then "_" and the NR carriers. In case of a DC combination for V2X,
the "DC_" is replaced with "V2X_".
\- SUL_ ...: A Carrier Aggregation configuration including one SUL band
followed by the list of NR carriers, one of them being a SUL carrier. In case
of a DC configuration with SUL, the "SUL_" is shifted behind the "_"
separating the LTE and NR carriers and the configuration starts with "DC_" as
usual for DC configurations. In case of an uplink EN-DC configuration with
SUL, "_ULSUP-TDM_" is applied for TDM operation for uplink sharing from UE
perspective.
## 5.2 Notation of lists of bands and bandwidths within a configuration
### 5.2.1 Band numbers
A list of LTE or NR carriers within a CA or DC configuration is a either a
single or multiple LTE or NR carriers. The simplest one is just a single
carrier. It consists of the band number followed by the bandwidth class, which
is "A" for a single carrier. For LTE the band number is just the number of the
band, for NR carriers the numerical part of the band notation is preceded by a
"n", indicating this is a NR band, not a LTE band. NR bands above n256 are FR2
bands, below n256 are FR1 bands. The band number is always followed by the
bandwidth class, which can be quite complicated for NR combinations with
intra-band CA. Bandwidth classes other than "A" indicate multiple carriers in
that band. In the list there can be multiple entries for inter-band CA
configurations (in LTE also intra-band non-contiguous CA), which are always
separated by "-". The band numbers are sorted in increasing numbers. LTE and
NR bands in the same frequency range usually have the same band number.
Examples:
\- Notation of a single LTE carrier: 1A, 2A, 3A etc.
\- Notation of a single NR carrier: n1A, n2A, n3A etc.
\- List of multiple LTE carriers on different bands: 1A-2A-3A.
\- List of multiple NR carriers on different bands: n1A-n2A-n3A.
### 5.2.2 Bandwidth classes
#### 5.2.2.1 Bandwidth classes for LTE
An entry within the list of carriers always starts with the band number
followed by the bandwidth class. In LTE the bandwidth classes (if not "A")
mean this is a contiguous CA configuration with multiple carriers. They are
specified in table 5.6A-1 in 36.101 and can range from "A" for a single
carrier up to F for 5 carriers. BW class I is specified for 8 carriers, but is
not used. Non-contiguous CA combinations are just listing multiple sub-blocks
separated by "-". Examples:
\- CA_1B: Two contiguously aggregated LTE carriers with 20MHz or less in band
1.
\- CA_2F: Five contiguously aggregated LTE carriers with up to 100MHz in band
2.
\- CA_3A-3A: Two non-contiguously aggregated LTE carriers in band 3
\- CA_4A-4E: A single carrier followed by a gap and then followed by four
contiguously aggregated carriers with up to 80MHz
\- A single carrier is no CA configuration as there is nothing aggregated, so
there is no CA_5A, this is just 5A.
#### 5.2.2.2 Bandwidth classes for NR
NR bandwidth classes are much more complicated. Also here an entry within the
list of carriers always starts with the band number followed by the bandwidth
class. But in NR the bandwidth class includes contiguous and non-contiguous CA
and a mixture of contiguous and non-contiguous CA. For contiguous CA the
bandwidth classes are specified similar to LTE, but separate for FR1 and FR2.
For FR1 contiguous CA BW classes are specified in table 5.3A.5-1 in 38.101-1
ranging from A to O, for FR2 in 5.3A.4-1 in 38.101-2 ranging from A to Q.
A special kind or BW class specification is when there are intra-band
contiguous LTE and NR carriers within a DC combination like DC_(n)1AA. In this
case the LTE and NR carriers within that band are combined to a single entry
of the list of carriers starting with (n) indicating that it can be "n" for
the NR carrier, or no "n" for the LTE carrier. This is followed by the
numerical value of the band (here "1") and then the contiguous BW class for
the LTE part and the contiguous BW class for the NR part. So DC_(n)1AA means
that there is a single carrier for LTE and a single carrier for NR side-by-
side contiguously aggregated in band 1. This can be extended by more
contiguous carriers on the LTE or NR side or both, for example DC_(n)41DA
means three contiguous carriers for LTE besides a single carrier for NR. This
can be extended by other LTE carriers in front of the combination of carriers
with (n) or with other NR carriers behind the (n) part, for example
DC_1A-(n)2AA or DC_(n)2AA-n3A. The (n) part is considered as the last LTE
combination in the list or the first NR combination in the list, therefore
adding it with a "-" instead of a "_".
However, the BW class part of a NR configuration also includes non-contiguous
intra-band CA. For a combination containing any non-contiguous CA, i.e. a gap
between any aggregated carriers, each block of single or contiguously
aggregated carriers is called a sub-block, where a sub-block can also consist
of the contiguously aggregated carriers as stated above. While in LTE single
non-contiguously aggregated carriers are just duplicated like CA_1A-1A, in NR
the number of non-contiguous carriers of a BW class is counted and put in
parenthesis with the number of subblocks of this type preceding the bandwidth
class. Therefore a configuration with two non-contiguous carriers will have a
BW class (2A) in NR, so the combination will be named CA_n1(2A), meaning there
are two non-contiguous carriers with BW class A in band n1.
However, there can also be the combination of contiguous and non-contiguous
intra-band CA in NR. In. this case the sub-blocks of each BW class are
separately counted and added within the brackets. For example if there are in
a n260 FR2 CA combination two sub-blocks of BW class "A" (single carriers),
three of BW class "G" (two contiguous carriers up to 100MHz) and one of BW
class O (two carriers with 50 or 100MHz), the full combination will be named
CA_n260(2A-3G-Q), having 6 sub-blocks with in total 10 carriers. Examples:
\- CA_n1B: Two contiguously aggregated NR carriers with 100MHz or less in band
n1 (FR1).
\- CA_n2D: Three contiguously aggregated NR carriers with up to 300MHz in band
n2.
\- CA_n3(2A): Two non-contiguously aggregated NR carriers in band n3
\- CA_n260G: Two contiguously aggregated NR carriers with 150 or 200MHz in
band n260 (FR2).
\- CA_n260M: Eight contiguously aggregated NR carriers with 750 or 800MHz in
band n260 (FR2).
\- CA_n260(2A): Two non-contiguously aggregated NR carriers in band n260 with
up to 800MHz (2x400MHz)
\- CA_n260(A-M): A single carrier followed by a gap and then followed by eight
contiguously aggregated carriers with up to 100MHz each
\- CA_n260(2A-3G-Q): Two single carriers up to 400MNHz each, three sub-blocks
with two carriers each of 150 or 200MHz per sub-block followed by another
subblock with two carriers of 50 or 100MHz each.
## 5.3 Rules to be used for the notation of CA or DC configurations
The following are the rules for generating the configuration notations:
\- Each configuration needs to start with "CA_", "DC_", "SUL_" or "V2X_".
\- DC combinations include a list of LTE carriers first, followed by the list
of NR carriers.
\- Entries within a list of either LTE carriers or NR carriers need to be
separated by "-", not "_".
\- The list of LTE carriers and the list of NR carriers within an EN_DC
combination need to be separated by "_", for contiguous intra-band EN-DC the
two lists are connected with the (n)xxAA like notation, not "_" (xx is the
band number) , for contiguous intra-band NE-DC the two lists are connected
with the xx(n)AA like notation, not "_" (xx is the band number). In specific
cases "_SUL_" connects the two lists.
\- Contiguous LTE+NR intra-band carriers within a DC combination are using the
notation (n)xxAA (xx is the band number) , Contiguous NR+LTE intra-band
carriers within a DC combination are using the notation xx(n)AA (xx is the
band number).
\- No other characters than "A" to "Z", "0" to "9", "(", ")", "-" "_" and "n"
are allowed within the notation, especially no spaces " ", "/", ".", ".",
LineFeed, CR, other special characters.
\- Entries within the list of carriers need to be sorted in numerical order,
i.e. first band n1, then n2, then n3, then n260, i.e. CA_1A-2A, not CA_2A-1A,
but LTE and NR combinations are separately sorted, i.e. DC_2A_n1A, entries
with (n) are always between the LTE and NR lists.
\- Bandwidth notations are either a single character according to the BW class
lists of contiguously aggregated carriers, two of these characters in case of
combinations with (n) or for NR non-contiguous intra-band combinations
specific expressions listing multiple carriers within "()".
\- Within the "()" of non-contiguous NR combinations there will only be BW
class letters for the BW class of contiguous sub-blocks preceded by a number
indicating the number of sub-blocks of this BW class, if there are multiple
different BW classes they are listed in ascending BW class order separated by
"-".
Examples of correct notations are as follows:
\- DC_1A-2A_n260(A-M)
\- DC_1A-2A-2A-2A_n3(3A)
\- DC_1A-(n)2AA-n3A
\- DC_1A-2A-3A-4A-5A_n6A-n260(2A-3G-Q)
\- Some incorrect examples we have seen: DC_1A-2A_n3A(3A) (no "A" before the
bracket); DC_2A-1A_n3(3A) (wrong sort order of LTE bands); DC_1A- 2A_n260(A-M)
(a " " (space) between the "-" and the "2"; DC_1A-2A_n260A/G/H/I/J/K/L/M (no
"/" allowed within a configuration, multiple configurations not allowed within
the notation, use separate configuration notations for each configuration).
Currently this notation for the CA/DC configurations is used as specified in
36.101 for LTE and 38.101 for NR. However, multiple errors within the
specifications have been observed, which motivate the need to define the
following rules how to handle the CA/DC configurations in the -101 specs.
Below are the general rules how to implement these band combinations within
the CA/DC configurations within the tables in clause 5.5:
\- Each cell of the configuration table should contain only one combination of
bands in the first column with the exception that combinations having the same
bands but different intra-band contiguous BW classes can be listed in the same
cell. Also all non-contiguous combinations can be listed in one cell, but
separated from the contiguous combinations in another cell.
\- In the UL column there shall only be UL configurations that belong to the
configurations in the first column. Unfortunately this means that in the UL
column there can be higher order configurations than some of the
configurations in the first column, however, they cannot be used with such a
lower order combination. This was agreed some time ago as a "table
simplification", but creates some hassle as there are UL combinations listed
that cannot be supported with the DLs.
\- Multiple configurations with different bandwidth classes shall be separated
by pressing the return key, you will see the {width="0.1267060367454068in"
height="0.1639730971128609in"} sign at the end of the line if you activated
the button to view these special characters, no other special characters to
separate configuration shall be used.
\- There shall be no special characters not belonging to the combinations in
any configuration cell, no spaces " ", "/", ".", ".", or any other special
characters.
\- If there are notes for a specific configuration, the note shall be using
superscript font and added at the end of the configuration list within a cell,
not anywhere within the configuration or separated with any other characters,
multiple notes shall be separated just by a comma, all in superscript.
## 5.4 Adding or removing channel BW's in NR CA configurations
### 5.4.1 Adding channel BW's in NR CA configurations
If it is discovered that it was forgotten to define a channel bandwidth when
defining a band combination, the correct way is to define a new BCS row for
that band combination. Such a definition of a new BCS follows the normally
procedures of definitions of new BCS's.
Preferably no exceptions should be made to the rule above. Exception can only
be if all UE vendors can confirm that ...
a) no existing UE advertises the affected channel bandwidth (in the channel-BW
bitmap) or the affected band combination (in the
supportedBandCombinationList), or
b) all existing UEs that advertise the affected channel bandwidth and the band
combination support and accept the configuration of that channel bandwidth in
that BC.
The rule to follow by CR-authors and basket WI rapporteurs:
> _● If a channel bandwidth is added to an existing bandwidth combination set
> [and]{.underline} if this channel bandwidth was already defined in Table
> 5.3.5-1 ("Channel bandwidths for each NR band") in a previous version of the
> specification:_
>
> _○ The change is non-backwards-compatible and needs to be documented on the
> CR cover page with the wording "_ The addition of the channel bandwidth XXX
> to BCS#Y of band combination ABC is intentional and potential non-backwards
> compatible (NBC) impact have been considered.
### 5.4.2 Removing channel BW's in NR CA configurations
#### 5.4.2.1 Removing of not possible channel BW's
If it is discovered that a channel bandwidth in a band combination set is
defined for a band that is not defined in Table 5.3.5-1 ("Channel bandwidths
for each NR band") it needs to be removed. Such a removal is not a non-
backward compatible change. This is a correction of an inconsistency in the
specification.
#### 5.4.2.2 Removing of possible channel BW's
If it is discovered that a channel bandwidth was mistakenly included when
defining the band combination, the correct way is to define a new BCS row in
that band combination. Such a definition of a new BCS follows the normally
procedures of definitions of new BCS's.
Preferably no exceptions should be made to that rule. Exception can only be if
all UE vendors can confirm that ...
a) no existing UE advertises the affected channel bandwidth (in the channel-BW
bitmap) or the affected band combination (in the
supportedBandCombinationList).
The rule to follow by CR-authors and basket WI rapporteurs:
> _● If a channel bandwidth is removed from an existing bandwidth combination
> set [and]{.underline} if this channel bandwidth was already defined in Table
> 5.3.5-1 ("Channel bandwidths for each NR band") in a previous version of the
> specification:_
>
> _○ The change is non-backwards-compatible and needs to be documented on the
> CR cover page with the wording "_ The removal of the channel bandwidth XXX
> to BCS#Y of band combination ABC is intentional and potential non-backwards
> compatible (NBC) impact have been considered.
## 5.5 Rules for band combination with BCS4/BCS5
### 5.5.1 Introduction of BCS4/BCS5
In NR band combination, it is a challenge for operators to request new NR CA
and SUL band combinations when new channel bandwidths are added to existing
bands in the band combinations. Operators have to go back and create new
Bandwidth Combinations Sets for existing band combinations in order to be able
to use those new channel bandwidths in NR CA and SUL. To reduce the workload
in RAN4, a new WID for creating a new type of BCS was approved in [7].
BCS4/BCS5 are allowed to be applied to new band combinations in RAN4 which
indicate UE to support up to all of the channel bandwidths for the band in the
band combination. BCS4 is release independent to Rel-15 with no new signalling
while BCS5 is functionally equivalent to BCS4 except that the new signalling
[_supportedMinBandwidthDL/supportedMinBandwidthUL_] introduced in Rel-17 such
as the limitation to the supporting channel bandwidth in each band within the
band combination would apply, and BCS5 with the signalling
[_supportedMinBandwidthDL/supportedMinBandwidthUL_] is allowed for early
implementation from Rel-15. For a legacy gNB that was not upgraded to
understand BCS4 or BCS5 with the new signalling, it would enable to ignore
BCS4 or BCS5 with the new signalling.
Considering that BCSs are not defined or reported separately for UL and DL for
traditional BCSs, there is also no need to differentiate BCS4/BCS5 for UL and
DL. BCS4/BCS5 can be used for FR1 intra-band UL CA. Table 5.5.1-1 shows the
template for NR CA configurations for intra-band contiguous CA with BCS4/BCS5.
Table 5.5.1-2 shows the template for NR CA configurations for intra-band non-
contiguous CA with BCS4/BCS5. For inter-band CA combinations including FR1
intra-band CA and with BCS4/BCS5, the bandwidth combination sets for the FR1
intra-band CA are BCS4/BCS5. The BCS4/BCS5 are represented in the inter-band
CA configuration table by using the option which covers inter-band and intra-
band as shown in Table 5.5.1-3. For SUL band combinations, BCS4/BCS5 reuse the
same template with inter-band CA as in Table 5.5.1-3.
> **Table 5.5.1-1: Template for NR intra-band contiguous CA configurations
> with BCS4/BCS5**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NR CA | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | ombin | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | NR CA | U | Ch | Ch | Ch | Ch | Ch | Ma | Band | | con | plink | annel | annel | annel | annel | annel | ximum | width | | figur | CA | bandw | bandw | bandw | bandw | bandw | a | c | | ation | conf | idths | idths | idths | idths | idths | ggreg | ombin | | | igura | for | for | for | for | for | ated\ | ation | | | tions | ca | ca | ca | ca | ca | band | set | | | | rrier | rrier | rrier | rrier | rrier | width | | | | | (MHz) | (MHz) | (MHz) | (MHz) | (MHz) | (MHz) | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | CA | CA | 40 | 80, | | | | 180 | 0 | | _nXC | _nXC | | 100 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 50, | 60, | | | | | | | | | 60, | 80, | | | | | | | | | 80 | 100 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | ... | ... | | | | ... | ... | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | See | | | | TBD | 4 and | | | | | nX | | | | | 5 | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | | 5. | | | | | | | | | | 3.5-1 | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | | carri | | | | | | | | | | er^2^ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: 5 | | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | 30/60 | | | | | | | | | | kHz | | | | | | | | | | SCS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | aggre | | | | | | | | | | gated | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | must | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | gr | | | | | | | | | | eater | | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | mi | | | | | | | | | | nimum | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | class | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | | 5.3A | | | | | | | | | | .5-1, | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | sm | | | | | | | | | | aller | | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | aggre | | | | | | | | | | gated | | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | | idth. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
> **Table 5.5.1-2: Template for NR intra-band non-contiguous CA configurations
> with BCS4/BCS5**
* * *
NR CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set
* * *
NR CA configuration Uplink CA configurations Channel bandwidths for carrier
(MHz) Channel bandwidths for carrier (MHz) Channel bandwidths for carrier
(MHz) Channel bandwidths for carrier (MHz) Maximum aggregated\ Bandwidth
combination set bandwidth (MHz)
CA_nX(2A) CA_nX(2A) 40, 50, 60, 80,100 40, 50, 60, 80, 100 180 0
                                                                               ...                                                           ...                                                                                                                  ...                   ...
                                                                               See nX channel bandwidths in Table 5.3.5-1 for each carrier                                                                                 TBD                                    4 and 5
* * *
> **Table 5.5.1-3: Template for NR inter-band CA configurations including FR1
> intra-band CA with BCS4/BCS5**
NR CA configuration Uplink CA configuration NR Band Channel bandwidth (MHz)
Bandwidth combination set
* * *
                                                            5                                             10                          15   20   25   30   ...   100
CA_nXA-nYA CA_nXA-nYA nX 5 10 15 20 0 nY 5 10 15 20 25 30  
nX See nX channel bandwidths in Table 5.3.5-1 4 and 5  
nY See nY channel bandwidths in Table 5.3.5-1  
CA_nXA-nYC CA_nXA-nYA nX 5 10 15 20 0 nY 5 10 15 20 25 30  
nX See nX channel bandwidths in Table 5.3.5-1 4 and 5  
nY See nY channel bandwidths in Table 5.5A.1-1
With regards to the applicability of BCS4/BCS5 to FR2 intra-band combinations,
since all FR2 combinations only have BCS0 and new channel bandwidth have not
been added, BCS4/BCS5 are probably not needed for FR2. For FR1+FR2 BCS4/BCS5
combinations the configuration table shall state that BCS0 applies for the
intra-band FR2 part (when applicable).
### 5.5.2 Guidelines for band combination with BCS4/BCS5
The following are the rules for applying BCS4/BCS5 for band combination
request:
\- BCS4/BCS5 apply to SUL, NR CA, NR DC and SUL and/or NR CA part of inter-
band MR-DC while it does not apply to intra-band MR DC.
\- BCS4/ BCS5 shall be requested together, but BCS5 can't be reported together
with BCS4.
\- If needed, traditional BCSs are allowed for all releases. For a new band
combination in Rel-17 and onwards, if BCS4/BCS5 are requested, traditional
BCSs are allowed pending on the proponents, the network of the proponents of
BCS4/BCS5 is demanded to recognize BCS4/BCS5.
### 5.5.3 The maximum aggregated bandwidth for intra-band CA with BCS4/BCS5
To guarantee the BCS4/BCS5 can cover all the possible bandwidth configurations
for intra-band CA, the maximum aggregated bandwidth chosen for BCS4/BCS5
should equal to- min{n*max channel bandwidth of each carrier, BW~Channel_CA~
of each CA bandwidth class, Maximum frequency range of each band} for intra-
band contiguous CA.
\- min{n*max channel bandwidth of each carrier, Maximum frequency range of
each band - Minimum sub-block gaps} for intra-band non-contiguous CA.
where n is the number of aggregated CCs, minimum sub-block gaps indicates the
sum of the min sub-block gap between the upper edge of lower component carrier
and lower edge of higher component carrier that UE can support per band
combination in two adjacent non-contiguous component carriers.
The value of min sub-block gaps could be clarified by the request operator but
it should try to cover the needs of all possible operators.
# 6 Introduction of band combinations
## 6.1 General
## A band combination shall be requested before it is introduced into TS
38.101-1/-2/-3 [4-6]. The workflow for introduction of band combination and
the template for band combination request sheet, status report and band
combination table in basket WI are given in subclause 6.2. The usage of band
combination notation in the request sheet and work item description is
described in subclause 6.3.6.2 Band combination request
### 6.2.1 Band combination workflow
#### 6.2.1.0 General
This chapter describes the workflow for the introduction of band combinations
in:
> _●_ Section 6.2.1.1 for band combinations that are "for block approval"
>
> _●_ Section 6.2.1.2 for band combinations that are not valid in Release 17
> or "not for block approval" with their definitions in sections 6.2.1.2.1 and
> 6.2.1.2.2 respectively.
Before a band combination is submitted to the "for block approval" workflow,
proponents should check if it does not fall under one of the definition in
sections 6.2.1.2.1 or 6.2.1.2.2 and use the appropriate workflow.
#### 6.2.1.1 The workflow on introduction of band combinations for block
approval
In order to improve the efficiency of RAN4's work, it's necessary to introduce
a clear workflow on the introduction of band combinations for block approval.
The workflow on the introduction of band combinations for block approval is
shown as figure 6.2.1.1-1 as a typical example for one RAN4 meeting in one
quarter. The specific steps are listed as below.
#1 Band combinations should be requested by contact person using request
template. And the request spread sheet should be shared in the reflector
3GPP_TSG_RAN_WG4_NR_BANDS for NR CA, MR DC and SUL band combinations or
3GPP_TSG_RAN_WG4_CA for LTE CA band combinations before RAN4#(X-1) meeting.
#2 Band combinations should be captured into the draft revised WIDs during
RAN4#(X-1) meeting by rapporteurs.
#3 The official revised basket WIDs can be approved together with requested
band combinations during RAN#(Y-1) meeting.
#4 Proponents should prepare and submit the corresponding contributions, e.g.
draft CR, TP before RAN4#X meeting. If a draft CR or TP is depending on
approval of lower order fallbacks submitted at the same meeting, this need to
be clearly mentioned in the cover sheet of the draft CR or in the heading of
the TP.
#5 The Block/Approval procedure is applicable to the band combinations in one
week before formal RAN4#X meeting, if there is no general issues observed.
#6 The contributions will be discussed during RAN4#X meeting. If there are no
technical concerns and if all the needed fallbacks are completed, the band
combinations can be approved. And the final decision will be made by chairman.
#7 If the contributions are approved or endorsed, the corresponding band
combinations should be captured into the big CRs and/or TRs by rapporteurs.
Note: The big CR is an official CR which is used to capture all the
corrections for one specification by rapporteur under basket WI.
#8 Email approval can be used for the big CRs and/or TRs in one week after
formal RAN4#X meeting.
#9 The status of band combinations should be shared by contact person after
formal RAN4#X meeting.
#10 The status of band combinations should be captured into the WID and/or SR
by rapporteurs.
#11 RAN #Y will approve the big CRs and revised WIDs.
#12 The agreed band combinations will be introduced into the specification in
next version.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="4.111805555555556in"}
Figure 6.2.1.1-1 The workflow on the introduction of band combinations for
block approval
#### 6.2.1.2 Band combinations not valid or not for block approval in release
17
##### 6.2.1.2.1 New band combination types in release 17
In release 17, in the new band combination requests, new cases were requested:
> _●_ Intra-band and inter-band combinations with new UL configurations.
>
> ● Inter-band combinations within low bands (\ _●_ The general requirement did not exist or was not agreed to be developed
> in release 17.
>
> ● Or, it used UL configuration that may cause MSDs that are not captured
> within the analysis of the block approval TPS.
>
> ● Or, it required detailed filter and antenna architecture and performance
> study to determine the feasibility (inter-band combinations \ _●_ Intra-band contiguous EN-DC with new bandwidth class, such as classes AC
> and CB: Need a new feature defined.
>
> ● Intra-band contiguous UL CA with three CCs (feature not yet defined).
>
> _●_ UL CA with three or more non-contiguous CCs (feature not yet defined)
> including
>
> **-** Inter-band UL CA with UL in three or more bands.
>
> **-** Intra-band non-contiguous UL CA with three or more discrete UL CCs.
>
> **-** Inter-band UL CA consisting of intra-band non-contiguous UL CA.
In general these pertain to cases where:
> _●_ There are more than 2 simultaneous non-contiguous UL clusters.
>
> ● There are more than 3 simultaneous transmitters involved.
In terms of handling, those cases should not be proposed or requested into
basket WIs and thus to the "block approval" or "not for block approval" AIs.
If agreed in RAN such combinations can be introduced via a dedicated WI. Thus
ideally, invalid release 17 band combinations should not get into the step #1
of Figure 6.2.1.1-1. Since it is not possible to guarantee that such
combination won't reach even step #5, these combinations can be flagged for
removal at any step before step #6 but in the exceptional occurrence where it
gets beyond step#5, invalid release 17 band combinations should be removed
from the specification as soon as identified.
##### 6.2.1.2.3 Band combinations not for block approval in release 17
The list of band combination types that are not for block approval in release
17 due to analysis in block approval templates is:
> _●_ Inter-band DL CA with intra-band contiguous or non-contiguous UL CA
> which has potential IMD impact to the simultaneous Tx/Rx cross-band DL. No
> simultaneous Tx/Rx to victim DL band is still applicable to block approval
> with a clarification note in the TP.
>
> **-** Example: CA_nX-nY(2A) or CA_nX-nY(2A)-nZ with UL CA_nY(2A).
>
> ● Inter-band combinations with three UL CCs in two bands. If more than one
> CC in one band, the CC should be contiguous. No simultaneous Tx/Rx to victim
> DL band is still applicable to block approval with a clarification note in
> the TP.
>
> **-** Triple-beat analysis should be provided for two and three DL band
> cases for cross-band MSD in simultaneous TX/RX DL bands.
>
> **-** Example: CA_nX-nYB/C or CA_nX-nYB/C-nZ with UL CA_nX-nYB/C.
>
> ● Intra-band UL CA with two CCs where A-MPR requirements have not been
> specified.
>
> ● Inter-band combinations with three or more bands below 1 GHz with UL in
> one or two bands.
>
> **-** Example: DC_8-20_n28.
>
> ● Inter-band combinations with two bands below 1 GHz and UL in two bands not
> yet specified in E-UTRA.
>
> **-** Example: DC_20_n28.
>
> ● Inter-band combinations with three or more bands within 1 -- 2.2 GHz with
> UL in one or two bands not yet specified in E-UTRA.
>
> **-** Example: CA_1A-3A-11A (already specified in E-UTRA, for illustration
> only).
In general these pertain to cases where:
> _●_ MSD cases calculation in block approval template do not identify 2UL CC
> or 3UL CC IMDs or triple beat cases.
>
> ● 2 or 3 band combination with \ should be agreed to derive potential MSD issues.
>
> ● 3 band combinations in 1-2.2 GHz range which have not been defined in LTE
> where the quad/penta/hexa-plexer feasibility and performance should be
> agreed to derive potential MSD issues.
In terms of workflow, those cases can be proposed or requested, but rather
than using block approval TP templates and submitting the contributions into
the step #5 of Figure 6.2.1.1-1, on top of TPs, discussion papers should be
submitted to the "not for block approval" AI and discussed in the associated
thread. Within the "not for block approval thread" TPs and draft CRs can be
agreed for these combinations to be captured in TR and Big CRs at step # 7 of
Figure 6.2.1.1-1. Since it is not possible to guarantee that such combination
won't reach even step #5, these combinations can be flagged to be moved to the
"not for block approval" AI and thread.
Note that for cases where simultaneous Tx/Rx do not apply, the combination can
still be introduced with the "block approval" procedure provided the non-
simultaneous Tx/Rx Note is clearly stated.
The discussion papers should cover:
> ● For intra-band CA or DC:
>
> **-** Potential A-MPR issue related to contiguous or non-contiguous UL CCs
> in intra-band combinations.
>
> **-** Potential 1UL and 2UL related MSD in FDD intra-band (some technical
> guidelines are being developed)
>
> ● For Inter-band cases with intra-band ULCA in one band, 2UL CC or 3UL CC
> IMDs or triple beat cases should be discussed based on technical guidelines
> provided in 7.3 of this TR.
>
> ● For 2 band or 3 band Inter-band cases \ filter performance should be discussed including whether 1 or 2 UL paths are
> needed and potential MSD derived.
>
> ● For > 3 band Inter-band cases in 1 -- 2.2 GHz range, multiplexing
> architecture and filter performance should be discussed and potential MSD
> derived.
The scope of "not valid" band combinations and "not for block approval" band
combinations may evolve in future release.
### 6.2.2 Template of band combination request sheet, status report and band
combinations table in basket WI
Some general rules are listed about the Excel spread sheet template.
#1 The Excel spread sheet can be used as the templates of request sheet,
status report, and band combinations table in basket WI. The templates can be
found in the following 3GPP ftp server.
https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/tsg_ran/WG4_Radio/Templates/
_(Editor's note: The approved latest template R4-2016936 for Rel-17 will be
uploaded into the server after RAN4#99-e meeting)_
#2 All request table, status report table and band combination index table of
basket WID are unified to use one template for band combination information
sheet.
#3 Cover sheet which is the first sheet in the template can be only used by
Contact Company which needs to request new band combinations or some
modifications or report the band combinations' status instead of the official
basket WID or Status Report. Cover sheet can be further updated after
additional basket WIs are approved in RAN plenary.
#4 Rapporteurs can choose some of these BCS table sheets to suit their WID.
#5 Only one sheet/Excel attachment is used for both the WID and the status
report by rapporteurs.
#6 The following rules and marks can be used to indicate the change marks for
the band combinations in the Excel spread sheet.
> **1) The Excel sheet included in the status report and the WID would have 2
> worksheets.**
>
> ** - Details of band combinations status of RAN #Y-1. It's the simple copy
> from last RAN meeting.**
>
> **\- Details of band combinations status of RAN #Y**
>
> **2) The worksheet of RAN #Y would have an extra column A \"Are there any
> change marks?\" which includes 4 words:**
>
> **New** _for new if the whole line is new. Those lines could be marked in
> blue._
>
> * * **Modified** _for modified if any field in this line is modified. The
> modified field could be marked in yellow._
>
> * * **Deleted** _for deleted if the whole line needs to be removed. The
> whole line could be marked in red._
>
> * * **Unchanged** _for all the information about combination aren't
> changed._
* * *
**Change marks** **Explanation** New Each new row from a contact company
request is marked in blue with New in first column. Modified Some columns of
the row are modified. The rapporteur will mark those changed cells in yellow
and use Modified in the first column. Deleted For a removed band combination,
the rapporteur marks the row in red and uses Deleted in first column.
Unchanged No changes in any field of the row
* * *
> **3) How would this Excel sheet be used:**
>
> **3.1) WID update:**
>
> ** - Excel lists from RAN #Y-1 are taken, all lines with "Deleted" are
> removed, all yellow and blue highlights are removed, all words "New" and "
> Modified" in \"changes\" column A are changed to "Unchanged"**
>
> ** - This provides the updated intermediate Excel lists of RAN #Y-1 and
> copies of both lists are made to make the intermediate lists for RAN #Y**
>
> ** If we start this with new release, then the RAN #Y-1 lists would not be
> needed because there are no new release combinations yet.**
>
> ** **-** Now lists of RAN #Y are updated:**
>
> ** - all new lines coming from contact company requests are inserted and
> marked in blue with "New" in first line**
>
> ** - There may be some to be modified, so rapporteur will mark changed
> fields in yellow and use "Modified" in first column**
>
> ** - There may be a few to be deleted, so rapporteur marks the line in red
> and uses "Deleted" in first column**
>
> **- If all the information about combination aren't changed, rapporteur
> marks the line in unfilled colour and uses "Unchanged" in first column. **
>
> **\- For the changes in the BCS sheet, rapporteurs and proponent can mark
> change fields in yellow.**
>
> **3.2) Status Report update:**
>
> **\- Assuming the WID update Excel list is ready after the RAN4 meeting,**
>
> ** The rapporteur can use the same Excel list for the status report: i.e.**
>
> ** - Contact companies can easily filter for ongoing combinations of their
> company and then**
>
> ** - Leave the line unchanged if all the information about combination
> aren't changed.**
>
> ** - Change the status to completed, fill in column A\~T, then these mark
> all these modified field in yellow and indicate Modified in first column**
>
> ** - Change the status to stopped, mark this field in yellow and indicate
> "Modified" in first column.**
>
> ** - Rapporteurs can check and take over the different inputs into their
> master copy.**
### 6.2.3 Template of TP for basket WIDs
\
## 6.3 Usage of band combination
### 6.3.1 Notation of CA or DC configurations in the request sheets and work
item descriptions
The configurations notation discussed in Clause 5 are also used for the CA/DC
configurations in the columns for the CA/DC configurations for DL and UL in
the request sheets and the combination tables within the WIDs. However,
multiple errors within the specifications have been observed, which motivate
the need to define the following rules how to implement these band
combinations within the CA/DC configurations lists within the excel tables in
the request sheets and WIDs:
\- Each cell of the CA or DC configuration column in the Excel tables shall
contain only one single CA/DC configuration using the notation of the
configurations as discussed above
\- Similar CA or DC configurations with different bandwidth classes shall use
another row in the same column of the table.
\- The UL configurations column shall only contain the UL configurations valid
for the CA/DC configuration in the same row, if there are multiple valid UL
configurations they can be listed one after the other separated with ", " (a
comma followed by a space), but they can also be using a single completely
filled row for each of the valid UL configurations
\- There shall be no merged cells in the table
\- The WI rapporteur checks if the notation of the CA/DC configurations is
correct and if not returns the request to the requestor. Incorrect requests
should not be added to the table in the WID.
# 7 Guidelines for technical studies for band combinations
## 7.1 Guidelines on the band edge relaxation for MOP for CA/DC band
combination
The following are the guidelines for the band edge relaxation for MOP for
CA/DC band combination.
**Guideline 1: The superscript of the NOTE on band edge relaxation is not
needed in the Tables for band configurations consisting of different bands in
TS38.101-1 specification.**
**Guideline 2: For intra-band contiguous CA or intra-band non-contiguous CA,
apply band edge relaxation to the uplink configurations if this band has band
edge relaxation for MOP as single band usage.**
**[For Guideline 2, the NOTE for single band, i.e. "]{.underline}** Refers to
the transmission bandwidths confined within F~UL_low~ and F~UL_low~ + 4 MHz or
F~UL_high~ -- 4 MHz and F~UL_high~, the maximum output power requirement is
relaxed by reducing the lower tolerance limit by 1.5 dB.**[" should be
applied.]{.underline}**
The following are some **examples to explain the above guidelines further.**
**First, assuming NR FDD band nX and NR TDD bands nY and nZ, where PC3 is only
applied to band nX, PC1.5/PC2/PC3 are applied to band nY, and PC2/PC3 are
applied to band nZ. See Table 7.1-1.**
Table 7.1-1 Power class only for NR single band PC1.5/2/3
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NR | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | | | 1 | rance | 1.5 | rance | 2 | rance | 3 | rance | | band | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | nX | | | | | | | 23 | ±2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | nY | | | 29 | +2/ | 26 | +2/ | 23 | ±2^3^ | | | | | | -3^3^ | | -3^3^ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | nZ | | | | | 26 | +2/-3 | 23 | ±2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | | efers | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | | | | | | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | | | | | | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | | | | | + 4 | | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | | | | | | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | | -- 4 | | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | F~ | | | | | | | | | | UL_h | | | | | | | | | | igh~, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | | utput | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | laxed | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | red | | | | | | | | | | ucing | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | | | tole | | | | | | | | | | rance | | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | 1.5 | | | | | | | | | | dB. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
**In Table 7.1-1, band edge relaxation (i.e. NOTE 3) for MOP is only applied
for band nY, and no band edge relaxation for MOP is applied for band nX and
nZ.**
1) **When HPUE NR inter-band CA constitute of bands nX, nY and nZ, i.e. HPUE
NR inter-band CA CA_nXA-nYA, CA_nXA-nZA,**
\- According to Guideline 1, due to the band nY as single band usage has band
edge relaxation for MOP and band nX and band nZ as single band usage have no
such band edge relaxation for MOP, so for the uplink HPUE band(s) in CA_nXA-
nYA and CA_nXA-nZA, the band edge relaxation is applied for HPUE TDD band nY,
while no band edge relaxation is applied for HPUE TDD band nZ.
2) **When uplink inter-band CA or DC constitute of band nX, nY and nZ, i.e.
uplink inter-band CA CA_nXA-nYA, CA_nXA-nZA, and uplink inter-band DC_nXA-nYA,
DC_nXA-nZA,**
\- According to Guideline 1, due to the band nY as single band usage has band
edge relaxation for MOP and band nX and band nZ as single band usage have no
such band edge relaxation for MOP, therefore band edge relaxation for PC1.5,
PC2 and PC3 to the uplink configurations of CA_nXA-nYA are applied, while no
band edge relaxation for PC2 and PC3 to the uplink configurations of CA_nXA-
nZA are applied.
\- Similarly, band edge relaxation to the uplink configurations of DC_nXA-nYA
are applied, while no band edge relaxation to the uplink configurations of
DC_nXA-nZA are applied.
3) **When NR band nX, nY, nZ support intra-band contiguous/non-contiguous
CA,**
\- According to Guideline 2, due to the band nY as single band usage has band
edge relaxation for MOP and band nX and band nZ as single band usage have no
such band edge relaxation for MOP, therefore band edge relaxation for PC1.5,
PC2 and PC3 to the uplink configurations of band nYC or band nY(2A) are
applied. While no band edge relaxation for PC2 and PC3 to the uplink
configurations of band nZC or band nZ(2A) are applied, and also no band edge
relaxation for PC3 to the uplink configurations of band nXC or band nX(2A) are
applied.
## 7.2 Guidelines on introduction of PC2 combinations
**For introduction of PC2 combinations with 2 bands DL and 3 bands DL a TP is
required.**
UL power configuration is captured only for PC2 2 bands DL band combinations
with either inter-band (2UL) or Intra-band 1UL.
Introduction of PC2 band combinations with more than 3 bands DL are done with
draft CRs directly.
## 7.3 Guidelines on introduction of band combinations with intra-band ULCA in
UL configuration
### 7.3.1 Handling of band combinations subject to triple beat interference
**For introduction of 2 band or 3 band inter-band combinations with intra-band
UL CA in one of the 1UL or 2UL configuration, a discussion paper should be
submitted to the "not for block approval" AI with a draft CR for introduction
of IMD or triple beat related MSD. In some cases, band protection level may
need to be checked for IMD levels.**
In the following chapters some of the derived technical guidelines are
provided in order to help proponents in preparing their discussion papers.
### 7.3.2 wo and three band combinations with 1UL band and intra-band ULCA as
UL configuration
#### 7.3.2.1 Description of the issue
For 2 band and 3 band inter-band combinations with simultaneous Tx/Rx
operation with at least 1UL band with intra-band UL CA in the UL
configuration, MSD related to IMDs of intra-band UL CA part (contiguous or
non-contiguous) needs to be analysed. Note that non-contiguous intra-band UL
CA is only applicable to cases with UL in only one band.
**In some cases, band protection level may need to be checked for IMD levels
especially for IMD3 and IMD5 collision and low UL filter rejection. In this
case:**
For the cases where -50dBm/MHz band protection cannot be fulfilled, the
proponent must provide a resolution with UL restriction, relaxed protection
level and seek approval from the owners of this band.
A separate input to CA coexistence Table 6.5A.3.2.1-1 should be specified in
38.101-1 with the agreed exception.
This IMD cases are illustrated in Figure 7.3.2.1-1 and shows:
IMD5 of the 1RB+1RB case from the UL CA configuration of band 2 falls in the
DL of FDD band 1
IMD3 of the 1RB+1RB case from the UL CA configuration of band 2 falls in the
DL of third band 3.
{width="6.358333333333333in" height="0.9653477690288714in"}
Figure 7.3.2.1-1: Type 1 case (2 contiguous or non-contiguous CCs in one band)
IMDs in the second and/or third band
More generally:
If the UL configuration is contiguous UL CA, the following assumptions can be
used:
IMD3 can reach up to 200MHz OOB with -13dBm/MHz.
IMD5 can reach up to 400MHz OOB with -30dBm/MHz for NS_01 and -25dBm/MHz for
NS_04.
IMD7 can reach up to 600MHz OOB with -45dBm/MHz for NS_01 and -35dBm/MHz for
NS_04.
If the UL configuration is non-contiguous UL CA, the following assumptions can
be used:
**I** MD 3 can reach up to 600MHz OOB with -30dBm/MHz.
IMD 5 can reach up to 1200MHz OOB with -45dBm/MHz.
The above levels are further attenuated by the UL band filter and any
diplexer.
There is only an MSD or band protection issue with band that have simultaneous
Tx/Rx with the UL band.
Note: This specification framework is stable and a TP template could be
developed for next release eventually allowing this type of combinations to be
treated within the "block approval" procedure. The template could follow the
contiguous UL CA and non-contiguous UL CA as UL configurations guidelines
developed in sections 7.3.1.2.and 7.3.1.3 respectively.
#### 7.3.2.2 Calculations and specification for contiguous UL CA as UL
configuration
The IMD order can be calculated for contiguous UL CA using the following
formula:
IMD order = 2*ceil(W~Gap~ /Min(maxUL aggregated BW, UL band bandwidth) \+ 1.
Where W~Gap~ is the distance between the closest edges of the band with the
intra-band UL CA UL configuration and the victim DL band.
In general if:
IMD order is > 5, band protection issue can be ignored.
IMD order is > 11, MSD can be ignored.
Example calculation for non-contiguous UL CA UL configuration: CA_n25A-n41C
with CA_n41C UL configuration. In this calculation we account for the US
spectrum in n41 which is 2496 -- 2690 MHz.
W~Gap~ = lowest band edge of n41 US spectrum - highest DL band edge of n25 =
2496 -- 1995 = 501 MHz.
Min(maxUL aggregated BW, UL band bandwidth) = Min(190, 194) = 190 MHz.
IMD order is: 2*ceil(501 / 190)+1 = 7.
Conclusion: no issue with band n25 protection but MSD related to IMD 7 falling
in band 25 DL is required. MSD is then calculated based on -35dBm/MHz (NS_04)
IMD7 level, 1RB+1RB configuration and any relevant attenuation.
The IMD related MSD should be captured in 38.101-1 section 7.3A.5Reference
sensitivity exceptions due to intermodulation interference due to 2UL CA in
tables 7.3A.5-1 and Table 7.3A.5-2. Similar tables are used for the
corresponding section in 38.101-3.
The table shall use the following format for non-contiguous UL CA UL
configuration based on CA_n22-n41C with n41C as UL configuration example.
> **Table 7.3.2.2-1: Example of MSD test point Table for contiguous UL CA as
> one band UL configuration**
* * *
Band / Channel bandwidth / N~RB~ / Duplex mode Source of IMD
* * *
NR CA band combination NR band UL F~c~\ UL/DL BW\ UL\ DL F~c~ (MHz) MSD\
Duplex mode  
(MHz) (MHz) C~LRB~ (dB)
CA_n25-n41 n25 N/A 5 N/A 1992.5 8.5 FDD IMD7
                                                   n41             2550       90          1 (RB~START~=0)     2550            N/A    TDD           N/A
                                                                   2645       100         1 (RB~START~=192)   2645
* * *
#### 7.3.2.3 Calculations and specification for non-contiguous UL CA as UL
configuration
The IMD order can be calculated for non-contiguous UL CA using the following
formula:
IMD order = 2*ceil(W~Gap~ /Min(maxBW separation class, UL band bandwidth) + 1.
Where W~Gap~ is the distance between the closest edges of the band with the
intra-band UL CA UL configuration and the victim DL band.
In general if:
> _●_ IMD order is > 3, band protection issue can be ignored.
>
> _●_ IMD order is > 9, MSD can be ignored.
Example calculation for non-contiguous UL CA UL configuration: CA_n2A-n77(2A)
with CA_n77(2A) UL configuration. In this calculation we account for the US
spectrum in n77 which is 3450 -- 3980 MHz and a maximum bandwidth separation
class of 600 MHz.
W~Gap~ = lowest band edge of n77 US spectrum - highest DL band edge of n2 =
3450 -- 1990 = 1460 MHz.
Min(maxBW separation class,UL band bandwidth) = Min(600, 3980 -- 3450 = 530) =
530 MHz.
IMD order is: 2*ceil(1460 / 530)+1 = 7.
Conclusion: no issue with band n2 protection but MSD related to IMD 7 falling
in band 2 DL is required. MSD is then calculated based on \ **Table 7.3.2.3-1: Example of MSD test point Table for non-contiguous UL CA
> as one band UL configuration**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+ | Band | S | | | | | | | | | / | ource | | | | | | | | | Ch | of | | | | | | | | | annel | IMD | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | | uplex | | | | | | | | | | mode | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+======+=======+======+ | NR CA | NR | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | D | | | band | band | F~c~\ | BW\ | C | F~c~ | (dB) | uplex | | | c | | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~LRB~ | (MHz) | | mode | | | ombin | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+ | CA_n | n2 | N/A | 5 | N/A | 1 | 2.7 | FDD | IMD7 | | 2-n77 | | | | | 987.5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+ | | n77 | 3455 | 10 | 1 | 3455 | N/A | TDD | N/A | | | | | | (RB~ | | | | | | | | 3945 | 10 | START | 3945 | | | | | | | | | ~=10) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | | (RB | | | | | | | | | | ~STAR | | | | | | | | | | T~=0) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+ | | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+
### 7.3.3 Two and three band combinations with 2UL band and intra-band ULCA as
UL configuration in at last one band
#### 7.3.3.1 Description of the issue
For 2 band and 3 band inter-band combinations with simultaneous Tx/Rx
operation with 3 (1 CC in UL band 1 and 2 contiguous CC in UL band 2) or 4 UL
CCs (2 contiguous CC in UL band 1 and 2 contiguous CC in UL band 2), on top of
IMD issues described in 7.3.1, triple beat products are a potential issue.
**This issue is a new case in RAN4 and there is no available study or
specification framework to build on. Some preliminary guidelines are available
though and can be used to prepare the discussion papers to be submitted in the
"not for block approval" AI.**
**Such triple beat issue is illustrated in Figure** 7.3.3.1-1.
{width="6.345520559930009in" height="0.9583333333333334in"}
Figure 7.3.3.1-1: Type 2 case (2 contiguous CCs in one band and 1 or 2
contiguous CCs in a second band) triple beat products (on top of IMDs) in the
second and/or third band
In the case (type 2) illustrated in Figure 7.3.3.1-1:
Same IMD products than type 1 that should be treated as in section 7.3.1.2 but
with additional triple beat tones, here FUL_CC1 + FUL_CC2-2 -- FUL_CC2-1:
This issue can be very severe if the UL intra-band distance between the two
allocation is close to the duplex distance but also is it is equal to the
distance between the single UL and another band
This issue can apply to two band or three band inter-band combinations
Type 3 has two type 2 cases.
#### 7.3.3.2 Calculations and specification for contiguous UL CA as UL
configuration
**Detecting a triple beat issue in the FDD band DL or a third band DL:**
Mainly consider the 1^st^ order triple beat α (TX~2~^2^TX~1~) of 3^rd^ order
non-linearity -> this is shown in the table as triple beat order 1.
\- Detection -> $\text{Duplex}\ \text{Offset}  this would be shown in the table as triple beat order 2.
**-** Detection -> $\text{Duplex}\ \text{Offset}  $\text{Duplex}\ \text{Offset}  **Table 7.3.3.2-1: Example of MSD test point Table for triple beat
> interference**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NR or | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / MSD | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | EN-DC | EUTRA | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | D | IMD | | | or NR | F~c~\ | | L | F~c~ | (dB) | uplex | order | | Con | band | (MHz) | BW | ~CRB~ | | | mode | | | figur | | | (MHz) | | (MHz) | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | DC | 3 | 1 | 5 | 25 | 1 | [1 | FDD | 3 | | _3A\ | | 782.5 | | | 877.5 | 2.7] | | | | _n41C | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | n41C | 2555 | \ | [1 | 2555 | N/A | TDD | N/A | | | | | [80] | (RBs | | | | | | | | 2635 | | tart= | 2635 | | | | | | | | \ | 88)] | | | | | | | | | [80] | | | | | | | | | | | [1 | | | | | | | | | | (RBst | | | | | | | | | | art=1 | | | | | | | | | | 28)] | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
# 8 Optimization on band combinations
## 8.1 General
The increasing number of band combinations in NR has occupied a large amount
of time and energy in RAN4 since Rel-15. To alleviate the pressure of
specifying new band combinations in RAN4, optimizations on band combinations
have been studied in the SI.
## 8.2 Improving RAN4 specification structures
### 8.2.1 Void
### 8.2.2 Configuration table structure
#### 8.2.2.1 CA configuration table
The NR CA configurations are specified as intra-band contiguous CA, intra-band
non-contiguous CA, inter-band CA within FR1 and inter-band CA within FR2 in TS
38.101-1 and 38.101-2 respectively. For CA band combination which includes at
least one FR1 operating band and one FR2 operating band, it is specified as
inter-band CA between FR1 and FR2 in 38.101-3.
For intra-band contiguous CA, a carrier aggregation configuration is a single
operating band supporting a carrier aggregation bandwidth class with
associated bandwidth combination sets. For each carrier aggregation
configuration, requirements are specified for all aggregated channel
bandwidths contained in a bandwidth combination set.
For intra-band non-contiguous CA, a carrier aggregation configuration is a
single operating band supporting two or more sub-blocks, each supporting a
carrier aggregation bandwidth class.
The template of configuration table for intra-band CA, including contiguous
and non-contiguous CA, is defined as in Table 8.2.2.1-1, where FR1 does not
contain the column "Fallback group". Regarding to the fallback group, it is
mandatory for a UE to be able to fallback to lower order CA bandwidth class
configuration. However, it is not mandatory for a UE to be able to fallback to
lower order CA bandwidth class configuration that belong to a different
fallback group.
> **Table 8.2.2.1-1: NR CA configurations for intra-band CA**
NR CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set / Fallback group |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
NR CA configuration | Uplink CA configurations | BWChannel | BWChannel | BWChannel | … | BWChannel | Maximum aggregated BW | BCS | Fallback group  
CA_nXE | CA_nXD CA_nXE | 50, 100, 200 | 200 | 200 |  |  | 600 | 0 | 2  
For intra-band non-contiguous CA in FR2, the "BW~Channel~" in Table 8.2.2.1-1
is replaced by "Sub-block" for CA configuration. The configuration table in TS
38.101-2 Rel-15/16 for intra-band non-contiguous CA are listed with the items
of DL CA configurations, UL CA configurations, Sub-blocks,
Σ(BW~Channel,block~) (MHz) and BCS. Further, there are two tables for intra-
band non-contiguous CA in clause 5.5A.2 in TS 38.101-2 for FR2, one is with
single CA bandwidth class and the other is with multiple CA bandwidth classes.
The sub-blocks belonging to a non-contiguous CA configuration can be in any
order. In other words certain CA configuration acronym includes all sub-block
arrangements which have exactly the same sub-block set. As an example,
CA_n260(2G-3O) denotes CA_n260(2O-2G-O), CA_n260(G-3O-G) etc, but these are
not listed in tables separately. In this sense, the configuration table does
not explicitly list all the possible arrangement of sub-blocks. In TS 38.101-2
Rel-17 for intra-band non-contiguous CA, with the consideration that existing
14 sub-blocks in Table 5.5A.2-1 and 12 sub-blocks in Table 5.5A.2-2 exceed the
page width, an option of no sub-block column explicitly shown in FR2 intra-
band non-contiguous CA configuration table is decided to optimize the
configuration table as shown in Table 8.2.2.1-2.
> **Table 8.2.2.1-2: NR FR2 CA configurations for intra-band non-contiguous CA
> (Rel-17)**
**NR CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set**
* * *
**NR CA configuration** **Uplink CA configurations** **Σ(BW~Channel,block~)
(MHz)** **BCS** CA_nX(2G-3O) - 1000 0
For each mixed intra-band contiguous CA and non-contiguous CA configuration in
FR1, the component NR bands are set in different rows with supporting channel
bandwidth vertically filled in the table as shown in Table 8.2.2.1-3.
> **Table 8.2.2.1-3: NR FR1 CA configurations for mixed intra-band contiguous
> and non-contiguous CA**
NR CA configuration Uplink CA configuration NR Band Channel bandwidth (MHz)
Bandwidth combination set
* * *
                                                            5                                    10                          15   20   ...   100
CA_nX(A-B) CA_nXB nX 5 10 15 20 ... 100 0 nX See CA_nXB BCS0 in Table 5.5A.1-1
For inter-band CA, a carrier aggregation configuration is a combination of
operating bands, each supporting a carrier aggregation bandwidth class. The
template for inter-band CA configuration table is the same as that of mixed
intra-band contiguous and non-contiguous CA, except that the component NR band
number is from different bands.
All the rows in the configuration tables for intra-band and inter-band CA
shall be included also in the two leftmost columns as well as in the rightmost
column. More specifically, cells are not to be merged. Instead of merging
cells, cell borders are to be made invisible.
#### 8.2.2.2 DC configuration table
For an NR-DC configuration within FR1, the DL NR-DC configuration and UL NR-DC
configurations are specified in 5.5B in TS 38.101-1. The bandwidth combination
sets for the corresponding NR CA configuration, i.e., dual uplink inter-band
CA with uplink assigned to two NR bands, are applicable to Dual Connectivity
configurations. Table 8.2.2.2-1 illustrates the template for NR-DC
configurations within FR1.
> **Table 8.2.2.2-1: NR-DC configurations within FR1**
+---------------+---------------+ | NR-DC | Uplink NR-DC | | | | | configuration | configuration | +===============+===============+ | DC_nXA-nYA | DC_nXA-nYA | +---------------+---------------+
In TS 38.101-3, the operating bands and bandwidth classes are specified for
operation with EN-DC, NGEN-DC, NE-DC or NR-DC configured. For EN-DC
configuration, it is further classified into intra-band contiguous EN-DC,
intra-band non-contiguous EN-DC, inter-band EN-DC within FR1, inter-band EN-DC
including FR2 and inter-band EN-DC including FR1 and FR2. For NE-DC
configuration, it is further classified into inter-band NE-DC within FR1 and
inter-band NE-DC including FR2. For NR-DC configuration, only inter-band NR-DC
between FR1 and FR2 are specified in TS 38.101-3. The EN-DC, NGEN-DC or NE-DC
band combinations include at least one E-UTRA operating band.
For EN-DC or NE-DC configurations, in addition to the columns of DL NR-DC
configuration and UL NR-DC configurations defined in the configuration table,
an additional column for \"Single Uplink allowed\" is introduced. It indicates
the problematic band combinations as defined in TS 38.306. When LTE and NR
transmissions collide, simultaneous dual transmissions may not be supported by
UE for these EN-DC band combinations for which only single switched UL is
supported. For EN-DC combinations of order 3 or higher, \"Single Uplink
allowed\" UL configurations captured in the configuration tables of intra-band
contiguous EN-DC, intra-band non-contiguous EN-DC or inter-band EN-DC within
FR1 for two bands also apply.
If multiple UL DC configurations are listed for multiple DL DC configurations,
valid uplink configurations are such that uplink does not have more carriers
than downlink, e.g., for the configuration DC_1A_n257J, the UL DC
configurations can be in the list of DC_1A_n257A, DC_1A_n257G, DC_1A_n257H,
DC_1A_n257I and DC_1A_n257J, while DC_1A_n257K, DC_1A_n257L and DC_1A_n257M
are the invalid uplink configurations for this case.
_[Example:]{.underline}_
+---------------+---------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | | | | | configuration | configuration | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | +===============+===============+ | DC_1A_n257A | DC_1A_n257A | | | | | DC_1A_n257D | DC_1A_n257D | | | | | DC_1A_n257E | DC_1A_n257G | | | | | DC_1A_n257F | DC_1A_n257H | | | | | DC_1A_n257G | DC_1A_n257I | | | | | DC_1A_n257H | DC_1A_n257J | | | | | DC_1A_n257I | DC_1A_n257K | | | | | DC_1A_n257J | DC_1A_n257L | | | | | DC_1A_n257K | DC_1A_n257M | | | | | DC_1A_n257L | | | | | | DC_1A_n257M | | +---------------+---------------+
#### 8.2.2.3 SUL configuration table
The SUL configuration tables describe Bandwidth Combination Sets. Four tables
are specified in TS 38.101-1 for SUL configurations, i.e., the table for
supported channel bandwidths per SUL band combination, the table for supported
channel bandwidths per SUL band combination with intra-band contiguous CA, the
table for supported channel bandwidths per SUL band combination with intra-
band non-contiguous CA and the table for supported channel bandwidths per SUL
band combination with inter-band CA. Table 8.2.2.3-1 gives an example for the
template of SUL band combination with inter-band CA. SUL band combination with
intra-band contiguous CA and intra-band non-contiguous CA share the same
template as inter-band CA with the except of different NR bands.
Table 8.2.2.3-1 Supported channel bandwidths per SUL band combination with
inter-band CA
SUL band combination with CA SUL configuration NR Band 5 10 15 20 25 30 40 50
60 70 80 90 100 BCS
* * *
CA_nXA_SUL_nYA-nZA SUL_nYA-nZA nX 5 10 15 20 25 30 40 50 0 nY 10 15 20 25 30
40 50 60 70 80 90 100  
nZ 5 10 15 20 25 30 40
## 8.3 Reducing redundant contents in RAN4 specification
### 8.3.1 Configuration tables
#### 8.3.1.1 CA configuration table
The CA configuration table in TS 38.101-1/-2/-3 provides the information of
channel bandwidth, SCS and bandwidth combination set of the bands for each CA
configuration. The uplink CA configuration information is also included in the
configuration tables for the allowed UL CA configurations supported by the
specification.
For CA within FR1 bands, TS 38.101-1 [4] provides the CA configuration tables
for intra-band contiguous CA, intra-band non-contiguous CA and inter-band CA
for NR FR1 bands. The additional information for maximum aggregated bandwidth
is set for intra-band contiguous and intra-band non-contiguous CA
configuration tables for FR1.
For CA within FR2 bands, TS 38.101-2 [5] provides the CA configuration tables
for intra-band contiguous CA, intra-band non-contiguous CA and inter-band CA
for NR FR2 bands. The additional information for maximum aggregated bandwidth
is set for intra-band contiguous and intra-band non-contiguous CA
configuration tables in TS 38.101-2 [5]. For intra-band non-contiguous CA, the
concept of sub-block is applied to FR2. Sub-blocks belonging to a CA
configuration can be in any order. This means a certain CA configuration
acronym includes all sub-block arrangements which have exactly the same sub-
block set. As an example, CA_n260(2G-3O) denotes CA_n260(2O-2G-O),
CA_n260(G-3O-G) etc, but these are not listed in tables separately.
For CA between FR1 and FR2 bands, TS 38.101-3 [6] provides the inter-band CA
configuration tables for NR bands between FR1 and FR2.
For the uplink CA configuration, "-" in the configuration table denotes that
non-CA operation is supported in this configuration, i.e. only single carrier
operation for the constituent band is used for uplink.
For the sake of brevity and to reduce the size of CA configuration tables,
instead of showing explicitly in the CA configuration tables, the SCS info for
each NR band in the configuration is referred to the channel bandwidths for
each NR band in clause 5.3.5 of TS 38.101-1 [4] and TS 38.101-2 [5]. For
configurations including intra-band contiguous part, the detail configuration
for this part is referred to the corresponding intra-band contiguous CA
configuration table. Examples:
For NR inter-band CA configuration with two bands in FR1, Table 8.3.1.1-1
illustrates that,
\- CA_n1A-n3A consists of two NR bands n1 and n3 whose SCS values are defined
in Table 8.3.1.1-2. For example, for NR band n1, the supported channel
bandwidth in BCS0 is 5MHz, 10MHz, 15MHz and 20MHz where channel bandwidth 5MHz
supports SCS with only 15kHz, channel bandwidths 10MHz, 15MHz and 20MHz
support all SCS of {15kHz, 30kHz, 60kHz}.
\- CA_n1B-n3A having intra-band contiguous part CA_n1B, the configuration of
band n1 for the corresponding CA part is referred to CA_n1B_BCS0 defined in
intra-band contiguous CA configuration table.
\- CA_n2A-n66A consists of two BCSs. The UL CA configurations denote the
allowed UL CA configurations supported by the specification. For BCS0, the
uplink configuration "-" indicates that non-CA operation is supported and only
single carrier operation is used in uplink. For BCS1, the uplink configuration
supports CA configuration CA_n2A-n66A.
\- For some configurations, there are regional spectrum limitations to the
corresponding bands and the notes can be found in the configuration table,
such as for CA_n2A-n48A, the channel bandwidths 50MHz, 60MHz, 80MHz, 90MHz and
100MHz are applicable only to downlink.
For channel bandwidth per operating band defined in clause 5.3.5 of TS
38.101-1/-2 and TS 38.104, Table 8.3.1.1-2 illustrates that,
\- The requirements for each configuration should be complied with the
combination of channel bandwidths, SCS for each operating band defined in the
table.
\- For some bands the limitations to the bandwidth may be captured with notes
in the table, such as for NR band n48, the channel bandwidth 5MHz is
restricted to operation when carrier is configured as an SCell part of DC or
CA configuration.
**Table 8.3.1.1-1: NR CA configurations and bandwidth combinations sets
defined for inter-band CA (two bands)**
* * *
NR CA configuration Uplink CA configuration NR Band Channel bandwidth (MHz)
Bandwidth combination set  
5 10 15 20 25 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100  
CA_n1A-n3A CA_n1A-n3A n1 5 10 15 20 0 n3 5 10 15 20 25 30  
n1 5 10 15 20 25 30 40 50 1 n3 5 10 15 20 25 30 40  
CA_n1B-n3A CA_n1A-n3A n1 See CA_n1B Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table
5.5A.1-1 0  
n3 5 10 15 20 25 30  
CA_n1A-n3(2A) CA_n1A-n3A n1 5 10 15 20 0 n3 See CA_n3(2A) bandwidth
combination set 0 in Table 5.5A.2-1  
... ... ... ... ...  
CA_n2A-n48A CA_n2A-n48A n2 5 10 15 20 0 n48 5 10 15 20 40 50^1^ 60^1^ 80^1^
90^1^ 100^1^  
... ... ... ... ...  
CA_n2A-n66A - n2 5 10 15 20 0 n66 5 10 15 20 40  
CA_n2A-n66A n2 5 10 15 20 1 n66 5 10 15 20 25 30 40  
NOTE 1: This UE channel bandwidth is applicable only to downlink.
* * *
**Table 8.3.1.1-2:** Channel bandwidths for each NR band
NR Band | SCS (kHz) | UE Channel bandwidth (MHz) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 | 50 | 60 | 70 | 80 | 90 | 100  
n1 | 15 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 | 50 |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 | 50 |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 | 50 |  |  |  |  |   
n2 | 15 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | 10 | 15 | 20 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  | 10 | 15 | 20 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n3 | 15 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 |  |  |  |  |  |   
… | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | …  
n41 | 15 |  | 10 | 15 | 20 |  | 30 | 40 | 50 |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | 10 | 15 | 20 |  | 30 | 40 | 50 | 60 | 70 | 80 | 90 | 100  
| 60 |  | 10 | 15 | 20 |  | 30 | 40 | 50 | 60 | 70 | 80 | 90 | 100  
… | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | …  
n48 | 15 | 55 | 10 | 15 | 20 |  | 30 | 40 | 506 |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | 10 | 15 | 20 |  | 30 | 40 | 506 | 606 | 706 | 806 | 906,4 | 1006  
| 60 |  | 10 | 15 | 20 |  | 30 | 40 | 506 | 606 | 706 | 806 | 906,4 | 1006  
… | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | …  
n66 | 15 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 |  |  |  |  |  |   
… | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | …  
n78 | 15 |  | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 | 50 |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 | 50 | 60 | 704 | 80 | 90 | 100  
| 60 |  | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 | 50 | 60 | 704 | 80 | 90 | 100  
… | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | …  
n80 | 15 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 |  |  |  |  |  |   
… | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | …  
n86 | 15 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 |  |  | 40 |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | 10 | 15 | 20 |  |  | 40 |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  | 10 | 15 | 20 |  |  | 40 |  |  |  |  |  |   
… | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | …  
NOTE 1: Void. NOTE 2: Void. NOTE 3: This UE channel bandwidth is applicable only to downlink. NOTE 4: This UE channel bandwidth is optional in this release of the specification. NOTE 5: For this bandwidth, the minimum requirements are restricted to operation when carrier is configured as an SCell part of DC or CA configuration. NOTE 6: For this bandwidth, the minimum requirements are restricted to operation when carrier is configured as a downlink SCell part of CA configuration. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
#### 8.3.1.2 DC configuration table
NR-DC configurations within FR1 are specified in clause 5.5B of TS 38.101-1.
In the configuration table, only NR-DC configurations and uplink NR-DC
configurations are listed. The bandwidth combination sets for the
corresponding inter-band CA, i.e., dual uplink inter-band carrier aggregation
with uplink assigned to two NR bands, are applicable to Dual Connectivity.
EN-DC and NE-DC configurations are specified in clause 5.5B of TS 38.101-3. In
the configuration table, in addition to the downlink configurations and uplink
configurations, the combinations of intra-band contiguous, non-contiguous and
inter-band within FR1 also include the column of "Single UL allowed". The
combination of some frequency bands in the configuration might be a bit
problematic due to self-interference, as defined in TS38.306. UE may indicate
capability of not supporting simultaneous dual and triple uplink operation due
to possible intermodulation interference to its own primary downlink channel
bandwidth if the intermodulation order is 2 or if the intermodulation order is
3 for the combinations when both operating bands are between 450 MHz -- 960
MHz or between 1427 MHz -- 2690 MHz. In case for the EN-DC configurations for
which the intermodulation products caused by the dual and triple uplink
operation fall into the receive band but do not interfere with the own primary
downlink channel bandwidth as defined in Annex-I of TS 38.101-3 the UE is
mandated to operate in dual and triple uplink mode. Single Uplink is also
allowed for certain band combinations where intermodulation or reverse
intermodulation products could create difficulty for meeting emission
requirements. For EN-DC and NE-DC combinations of order 3 or higher, "Single
Uplink allowed" UL configurations captured in the corresponding order 2 tables
apply. As for an example, to mitigate the self-interference issue, the EN-DC
configuration DC_3A_n78A has specified which band combinations are allowed to
stray from the stringent requirement for simultaneous transmission and
reception. The uplink needs to alternate between 1.8GHz and 3.5GHz. While
3.5GHz uplink transmission is ongoing, no data should be scheduled by the
network on the 1.8GHz LTE carrier.
Apart from the above EN-DC and NE-DC configurations, TS 38.101-3 also
specified inter-band NR-DC configuration between FR1 and FR2. The
configurations and bandwidth combination sets for the FR1-FR2 NR-DC
combinations are defined in the tables for FR1-FR2 inter-band carrier
aggregation.
In order to reduce the EN-DC, NE-DC and NR-DC configuration table size, the
following rules should be applied to the grouping of the configurations.
\- Grouping of DC configurations is based on common band combination.
\- In case E-UTRA or/and NR has non-contiguous CA, it will be on a separate
row compared to cases when DC configuration has only single carrier or
contiguous CA operation.
\- Common band combination should be considered as the configurations having
the same band sequence, such as DC_x-y-y_nz and DC_x-x-y_nz are different band
combinations, while all configurations with DC_x-y_nz(*) having non-contiguous
parts in band nz are considered as common band combination.
[_Examples_ (_EN-DC with NR band having non-contiguous part_)_:_]{.underline}
+------------------+---------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | | | | | configuration | configuration | +==================+===============+ | DC_2A_n258A | DC_2A_n258A | | | | | DC_2A_n258D | DC_2A_n258D | | | | | DC_2A_n258G | DC_2A_n258G | | | | | DC_2A_n258H | DC_2A_n258H | | | | | DC_2A_n258O | DC_2A_n258O | | | | | DC_2A_n258P | DC_2A_n258P | | | | | DC_2A_n258Q | DC_2A_n258Q | +------------------+---------------+ | DC_2A_n258(2A) | DC_2A_n258A | | | | | DC_2A_n258(3A) | | | | | | DC_2A_n258(4A) | | | | | | DC_2A_n258(5A) | | +------------------+---------------+
[_Examples_ (_EN-DC with E-UTRA band having non-contiguous
part_)_:_]{.underline}
+------------------+---------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | | | | | configuration | configuration | +==================+===============+ | DC_7A_n257A | DC_7A_n257A | | | | | DC_7A_n257D | DC_7A_n257D | | | | | DC_7A_n257E | DC_7A_n257G | | | | | DC_7A_n257F | DC_7A_n257H | | | | | DC_7A_n257G | DC_7A_n257I | | | | | DC_7A_n257H | | | | | | DC_7A_n257I | | | | | | DC_7A_n257J | | | | | | DC_7A_n257K | | | | | | DC_7A_n257L | | | | | | DC_7A_n257M | | +------------------+---------------+ | DC_7A-7A_n257A | DC_7A_n257A | | | | | DC_7A-7A_n257D | DC_7A_n257D | | | | | DC_7A-7A_n257E | DC_7A_n257G | | | | | DC_7A-7A_n257F | DC_7A_n257H | | | | | DC_7A-7A_n257G | DC_7A_n257I | | | | | DC_7A-7A_n257H | | | | | | DC_7A-7A_n257I | | | | | | DC_7A-7A_n257J | | | | | | DC_7A-7A_n257K | | | | | | DC_7A-7A_n257L | | | | | | DC_7A-7A_n257M | | +------------------+---------------+
[_Examples_ (_NE-DC with E-UTRA band having non-contiguous
part_)_:_]{.underline}
+------------------+---------------+ | NE-DC | Uplink NE-DC | | | | | configuration | configuration | +==================+===============+ | DC_n257A_7A | DC_n257A_7A | | | | | DC_n257G_7A | | | | | | DC_n257H_7A | | | | | | DC_n257I_7A | | | | | | DC_n257J_7A | | | | | | DC_n257K_7A | | | | | | DC_n257L_7A | | | | | | DC_n257M_7A | | +------------------+---------------+ | DC_n257A_7A-7A | DC_n257A_7A | | | | | DC_n257G_7A-7A | | | | | | DC_n257H_7A-7A | | | | | | DC_n257I_7A-7A | | | | | | DC_n257J_7A-7A | | | | | | DC_n257K_7A-7A | | | | | | DC_n257L_7A-7A | | | | | | DC_n257M_7A-7A | | +------------------+---------------+
[_Examples_ (_NR-DC with NR band having non-contiguous part_)_:_]{.underline}
+------------------+---------------+ | NR-DC | Uplink NR-DC | | | | | configuration | configuration | +------------------+---------------+ | DC_n3A-n257A | DC_n3A-n257A | | | | | DC_n3A-n257D | DC_n3A-n257D | | | | | DC_n3A-n257G | DC_n3A-n257G | | | | | DC_n3A-n257H | DC_n3A-n257H | | | | | DC_n3A-n257I | DC_n3A-n257I | +------------------+---------------+ | DC_n3(2A)-n257A | DC_n3A-n257A | | | | | DC_n3(2A)-n257G | DC_n3A-n257G | | | | | DC_n3(2A)-n257H | DC_n3A-n257I | | | | | DC_n3(2A)-n257I | DC_n3A-n257H | +------------------+---------------+
[_Examples_ (_Incorrect grouping case_)_:_]{.underline}
+------------------+----------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | | | | | configuration | configurationp | +==================+================+ | DC_2A_n261A | DC_2A_n261A | | | | | DC_2A_n261(2A) | | | | | | DC_2A_n261(3A) | | | | | | DC_2A_n261(4A) | | +------------------+----------------+ | DC_2A_n261B | DC_2A_n261A | | | | | DC_2A_n261C | DC_2A_n261B | | | | | DC_2A_n261D | DC_2A_n261C | | | | | DC_2A_n261E | DC_2A_n261D | | | | | DC_2A_n261F | DC_2A_n261E | | | | | DC_2A_n261G | DC_2A_n261F | | | | | DC_2A_n261H | DC_2A_n261G | | | | | DC_2A_n261I | DC_2A_n261H | | | | | DC_2A_n261J | DC_2A_n261I | | | | | DC_2A_n261K | DC_2A_n261O | | | | | DC_2A_n261L | DC_2A_n261P | | | | | DC_2A_n261M | DC_2A_n261Q | | | | | DC_2A_n261O | | | | | | DC_2A_n261P | | | | | | DC_2A_n261Q | | +------------------+----------------+
In this case, for DC_2_n261, the configurations with non-contiguous CA part
CA_n261(*) such as DC_2A_n261(2A), DC_2A_n261(3A) and DC_2A_n261(4A) are mis-
grouped with DC_2A_n261A which has only single carrier. They should be revised
as follows.
+------------------+---------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | | | | | configuration | configuration | +==================+===============+ | DC_2A_n261A | DC_2A_n261A | | | | | DC_2A_n261B | DC_2A_n261B | | | | | DC_2A_n261C | DC_2A_n261C | | | | | DC_2A_n261D | DC_2A_n261D | | | | | DC_2A_n261E | DC_2A_n261E | | | | | DC_2A_n261F | DC_2A_n261F | | | | | DC_2A_n261G | DC_2A_n261G | | | | | DC_2A_n261H | DC_2A_n261H | | | | | DC_2A_n261I | DC_2A_n261I | | | | | DC_2A_n261J | DC_2A_n261O | | | | | DC_2A_n261K | DC_2A_n261P | | | | | DC_2A_n261L | DC_2A_n261Q | | | | | DC_2A_n261M | | | | | | DC_2A_n261O | | | | | | DC_2A_n261P | | | | | | DC_2A_n261Q | | +------------------+---------------+ | DC_2A_n261(2A) | DC_2A_n261A | | | | | DC_2A_n261(3A) | | | | | | DC_2A_n261(4A) | | +------------------+---------------+
Regarding to the common band combination, it means the configurations having
the same band sequence. For example, DC_x-x-y_nz and DC_x-y-y_nz are not
considered as the common band combination.
[_Examples_ (_Incorrect understanding of common band
combination_)_:_]{.underline}
+-----------------------+----------------------------+ | EN-DC configuration | Uplink EN-DC configuration | +=======================+============================+ | DC_2A-66A_n261A | DC_2A_n261A | | | | | DC_2A-66A_n261G | DC_66A_n261A | | | | | DC_2A-66A_n261H | DC_2A_n261G | | | | | DC_2A-66A_n261I | DC_66A_n261G | | | | | DC_2A-66A_n261J | DC_2A_n261H | | | | | DC_2A-66A_n261K | DC_66A_n261H | | | | | DC_2A-66A_n261L | DC_2A_n261I | | | | | DC_2A-66A_n261M | DC_66A_n261I | +-----------------------+----------------------------+ | DC_2A-2A-66A_n261A | DC_2A_n261A | | | | | DC_2A-2A-66A_n261G | DC_66A_n261A | | | | | DC_2A-2A-66A_n261H | DC_2A_n261G | | | | | DC_2A-2A-66A_n261I | DC_66A_n261G | | | | | DC_2A-2A-66A_n261J | DC_2A_n261H | | | | | DC_2A-2A-66A_n261K | DC_66A_n261H | | | | | DC_2A-2A-66A_n261L | DC_2A_n261I | | | | | DC_2A-2A-66A_n261M | DC_66A_n261I | | | | | DC_2A-66A-66A_n261A | | | | | | DC_2A-66A-66A_n261G | | | | | | DC_2A-66A-66A_n261H | | | | | | DC_2A-66A-66A_n261I | | | | | | DC_2A-66A-66A_n261J | | | | | | DC_2A-66A-66A_n261K | | | | | | DC_2A-66A-66A_n261L | | | | | | DC_2A-66A-66A_n261M | | +-----------------------+----------------------------+
In this case, the configurations DC_2-66_n261, DC_2-2-66_n261 and
DC_2-66-66_n261 are not common band combinations. They should be re-grouped as
follows.
+-----------------------+----------------------------+ | EN-DC configuration | Uplink EN-DC configuration | +=======================+============================+ | DC_2A-66A_n261A | DC_2A_n261A | | | | | DC_2A-66A_n261G | DC_66A_n261A | | | | | DC_2A-66A_n261H | DC_2A_n261G | | | | | DC_2A-66A_n261I | DC_66A_n261G | | | | | DC_2A-66A_n261J | DC_2A_n261H | | | | | DC_2A-66A_n261K | DC_66A_n261H | | | | | DC_2A-66A_n261L | DC_2A_n261I | | | | | DC_2A-66A_n261M | DC_66A_n261I | +-----------------------+----------------------------+ | DC_2A-2A-66A_n261A | DC_2A_n261A | | | | | DC_2A-2A-66A_n261G | DC_66A_n261A | | | | | DC_2A-2A-66A_n261H | DC_2A_n261G | | | | | DC_2A-2A-66A_n261I | DC_66A_n261G | | | | | DC_2A-2A-66A_n261J | DC_2A_n261H | | | | | DC_2A-2A-66A_n261K | DC_66A_n261H | | | | | DC_2A-2A-66A_n261L | DC_2A_n261I | | | | | DC_2A-2A-66A_n261M | DC_66A_n261I | +-----------------------+----------------------------+ | DC_2A-66A-66A_n261A | DC_2A_n261A | | | | | DC_2A-66A-66A_n261G | DC_66A_n261A | | | | | DC_2A-66A-66A_n261H | DC_2A_n261G | | | | | DC_2A-66A-66A_n261I | DC_66A_n261G | | | | | DC_2A-66A-66A_n261J | DC_2A_n261H | | | | | DC_2A-66A-66A_n261K | DC_66A_n261H | | | | | DC_2A-66A-66A_n261L | DC_2A_n261I | | | | | DC_2A-66A-66A_n261M | DC_66A_n261I | +-----------------------+----------------------------+
For the uplink support in the configuration table, the valid uplink
configurations are specified that uplink does not have more carriers than
downlink. For the UL configuration type, it should be consistent within one
row, i.e., there should not be a mixture of contiguous and non-contiguous UL
CA within a row. If multiple UL DC configurations are indicated with multiple
DL DC configurations, only UL DC configurations with the same or a lower
number of carriers in the same fallback group are valid UL configurations.
_[Examples:]{.underline}_
\- DC_5A_n261G is not a valid uplink configuration for DC_5A_n261A.
\- DC_5A_n261(2A) and DC_5A_n261A are not allowed to be in the same row in the
configuration table.
For the sequence of EN-DC combinations, the following rules apply.
\- EN-DC configurations should be sorted by LTE band combination, then NR band
combination.
\- LTE combinations should be sorted by the first band number, then the first
bandwidth character, then the second band number, then the second bandwidth
character and so on.
\- The same sort order should be applied for the NR part, there combinations
with () should be sorted alphanumerically within the brackets after the
contiguous combinations.
For the sequence of NE-DC combinations, the following rules apply.
\- NE-DC configurations should be sorted by NR band combination, then LTE band
combination.
\- NR combinations should be sorted by the first band number, then the first
bandwidth character, then the second band number, then the second bandwidth
character and so on. For the combinations with () should be sorted
alphanumerically within the brackets after the contiguous combinations.
\- LTE combinations should be sorted by the first band number, then the first
bandwidth character, then the second band number, then the second bandwidth
character and so on.
For the sequence of NR-DC combinations, the following rules apply.
\- DC combinations should be sorted by the first band number, then the first
bandwidth character, then the second band number, then the second bandwidth
character and so on.
\- For the combinations with () should be sorted alphanumerically within the
brackets after the contiguous combinations.
_[Examples:]{.underline}_
\- DC_1A_n77A
\- DC_1A_n77C
\- DC_1C_n77A
\- DC_1C-2A_n77A
\- DC_41A-42A_n79A
\- DC_41A-42C_n79A
\- DC_41C-42A_n79A
\- DC_41C-42C_n79A
\- DC_41C-42C_n257A
\- DC_41C-42C_n257M
\- DC_41C-42C_n257(2A)
\- DC_41C-42C_n257(2A-2O)
\- DC_41C-42C_n257(8A)
\- DC_41C-42C_n257(D-G)
#### 8.3.1.3 SUL configuration table
The SUL band combination with CA in TS 38.101-1 [4] provides the
configurations of channel bandwidth, SCS and bandwidth combination set of the
bands for each SUL combination. The SUL configuration information is also
included in the configuration tables for the allowed SUL configurations
supported by the specification.
For the sake of brevity and to reduce the size of SUL band combination with
intra-band contiguous CA, intra-band non-contiguous CA and inter-band CA,
instead of showing explicitly in the SUL configuration tables, the SCS info
for each NR band and SUL band in the configuration is referred to the channel
bandwidths for each NR band in clause 5.3.5 of TS 38.101-1 [4]. Examples:
For SUL band combination with intra-band non-contiguous CA, Table 8.3.1.3-1
illustrates that,
\- SUL_n78(2A)-n86A consists of NR band n78 and SUL band n86 whose SCS values
are defined in Table 8.3.1.1-2. For example, for SUL band n86, the supported
channel bandwidth in BCS0 is 5MHz, 10MHz, 15MHz and 20MHz where channel
bandwidth 5MHz supports SCS with only 15kHz, channel bandwidths 10MHz, 15MHz
and 20MHz support all SCS of {15kHz, 30kHz, 60kHz}.
\- CA_n78(2A) with intra-band non-contiguous CA, the configuration is referred
to BCS0 defined in clause 5.5A.2 for intra-band non-contiguous CA
configuration table.
\- The SUL configuration for SUL_n78A-n86A can be referred to Table 8.3.1.3-4.
For SUL band combination with intra-band contiguous CA, Table 8.3.1.3-2
illustrates that,
\- SUL_n41C-n80A consists of NR band n41 and SUL band n80 whose SCS values are
defined in Table 8.3.1.1-2. For example, for SUL band n80, the supported
channel bandwidth in BCS0 is 5MHz, 10MHz, 15MHz, 20MHz, 25MHz, 30MHz and 40MHz
where channel bandwidth 5MHz supports SCS with only 15kHz, channel bandwidths
10MHz, 15MHz, 20MHz, 25MHz, 30MHz and 40MHz support all SCS of {15kHz, 30kHz,
60kHz}.
\- CA_n41C with intra-band contiguous CA, the configuration is referred to
BCS0 defined in clause 5.5A.1 for intra-band contiguous CA configuration
table.
\- The SUL configuration for SUL_n41A-n80A can be referred to Table 8.3.1.3-4.
For SUL band combination with inter-band CA, Table 8.3.1.3-3 illustrates that,
\- CA_n1A_SUL_n78A-n80A consists of NR band n1 and SUL band combination of
SUL_n78A-n80A, whose SCS values are defined in Table 8.3.1.1-2. For example,
for NR band n1, the supported channel bandwidth in BCS0 is 5MHz, 10MHz, 15MHz,
20MHz, 25MHz, 30MHz, 40MHz and 50MHz where channel bandwidth 5MHz supports SCS
with only 15kHz, channel bandwidths 10MHz, 15MHz, 20MHz, 25MHz, 30MHz, 40MHz
and 50MHz support all SCS of {15kHz, 30kHz, 60kHz}.
\- The SUL configuration for SUL_n78A-n80A can be referred to Table 8.3.1.3-4.
Table 8.3.1.3-1: Supported channel bandwidths per SUL band combination with
intra-band non-contiguous CA
SUL band combination with intra-band non-contiguous CA SUL configuration NR
Band Channel bandwidth (MHz) (NOTE 1) Bandwidth combination set
* * *
                                                                                                                 5                                                               10                          15   20   25   30   40   50   60   80   90   100
SUL_n78(2A)-n86A SUL_n78A-n86A n78 See CA_n78(2A) Bandwidth Combination Set 0
in Table 5.5A.2-1 0  
n86 5 10 15 20  
NOTE 1: The SCS of each channel bandwidth for NR band refers to Table 5.3.5-1.
Table 8.3.1.3-2: Supported channel bandwidths per SUL band combination with
intra-band contiguous CA
SUL band combination with CA | SUL configuration | NR Band | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 25 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz | 50 MHz | 60 MHz | 70 MHz | 80 MHz | 90 MHz | 100 MHz | Bandwidth combination set  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
SUL_n41C-n80A | SUL_n41A-n80A | n41 | See CA_n41C Bandwidth Combination Set 1 in Table 5.5A.1-1 | 0 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n80 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
… | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | …  
Table 8.3.1.3-3: Supported channel bandwidths per SUL band combination with
inter-band CA
SUL band combination with CA | SUL configuration | NR Band | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 25 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz | 50 MHz | 60 MHz | 70 MHz | 80 MHz | 90 MHz | 100 MHz | Bandwidth combination set  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA_n1A_SUL_n78A-n80A | SUL_n78A-n80A | n1 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 | 50 |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  | n78 |  | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 | 50 | 60 | 70 | 80 | 90 | 100 |   
|  | n80 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
… | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | … | …  
Table 8.3.1.3-4: Supported channel bandwidths per SUL band combination
SUL configuration NR Band Channel bandwidth (MHz) (NOTE 1) Bandwidth
combination set
* * *
                                5                                  10                          15    20    25    30    40    50    60    **70**   80    90    100
SUL_n41A-n80A n41 10 15 20 40 50 60 80 90 100 0 n80 5 10 15 20 25 30  
n41 10 15 20 30 40 50 60 80 90 100 1 n80 5 10 15 20 25 30 40  
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... SUL_n78A-n80A
n78 10 15 20 40 50 60 80 90 100 0 n80 5 10 15 20 25 30  
n78 10 15 20 25 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 1 n80 5 10 15 20 25 30 40  
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... SUL_n78A-n86A
n78 10 15 20 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 0 n86 5 10 15 20  
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
### 8.3.2 ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~ for DC
#### 8.3.2.1 Void
#### 8.3.2.2 Void
#### 8.3.2.3 ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~ statistical distribution
In following figures following abbreviations are used to indicate operating
band frequency properties L = low band (\< 1 GHz), H = high band (1−4 GHz) and
VH = very high band (4−10 GHz).
Figure 8.3.2.3-1 reveals that n79 dTib relaxations are mostly 0 dB if no other
very high band is present, dRib relaxations are more divergent. Similar
behaviour is present also when band combination has another very high band
present for dTib but not for dRib see, Figure 8.3.2.3-2. Actually relaxations
are almost predominantly 0 dB especially for dRib which is bit unexpected as
one would expect that when there is no other VH band in band combination with
n79 then relaxations are always 0 dB due to dedicated antenna for n79, however
specifications seems not to be aligned.
{width="3.326771653543307in"
height="2.4960629921259843in"}{width="3.326771653543307in"
height="2.4960629921259843in"}
Figure 8.3.2.3-1: ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ for band n79 in the presence of no other
VH bands
{width="3.326771653543307in"
height="2.4960629921259843in"}{width="3.326771653543307in"
height="2.4960629921259843in"}
Figure 8.3.2.3-2: ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ for band n79 in the presence of other VH
bands
When a VH band other than n79 is part of band combinations dTib is almost
always 0.8 dB and dRib is 0.5 dB, see Figure 8.3.2.3-3. Same is true also if
there are multiple VH bands other than n79, see Figure 8.3.2.3-4.
{width="3.326771653543307in"
height="2.4960629921259843in"}{width="3.326771653543307in"
height="2.4960629921259843in"}
Figure 8.3.2.3-3: ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ for VH bands other that n79 in the
presence of no other VH bands
{width="3.322834645669291in"
height="2.4921259842519685in"}{width="3.322834645669291in"
height="2.4921259842519685in"}
Figure 8.3.2.3-4: ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ for VH bands other that n79 in the
presence of at least one other VH band
Figure 8.3.2.3-5 and Figure 8.3.2.3-6 present ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ for L bands
and for H bands respectively for the case that band has a harmonic falling
onto DL of any other band in the combination. Quite a lot of variation in
statistics with dTib peak at 0.6 dB and dRib peak at 0.2 dB for low bands and
dTib peak at 0.5 dB and dRib peaks at 0 for high bands. Why there is this
variation is unknown, but it might be that when dTib is 0.3 dB harmonic
relation is missed. No rational explanation for dTib 0.5 dB is known.
{width="3.326771653543307in"
height="2.4960629921259843in"}{width="3.326771653543307in"
height="2.4960629921259843in"}
Figure 8.3.2.3-5: ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ for L bands with a harmonic falling onto
DL of any band in the combination
{width="3.326771653543307in"
height="2.4960629921259843in"}{width="3.326771653543307in"
height="2.4960629921259843in"}
Figure 8.3.2.3-6: ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ for H bands with a harmonic falling onto
DL of any band in the combination
Figure 8.3.2.3-7 present ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ for L or H bands when part of L-L
or H-H combination. Variation is large with dTib peak at 0.3 and 0.5 dB and
dRib peak at 0 dB. Peaks are at expected places but not that dominant as
expected. Also thinking E-UTRA agreement for LL and HH which is 0.5 dB for
dTib and 0 dRib one has to think that is has been forgotten without a good
reason and setting the relaxations is haphazard.
{width="3.326771653543307in"
height="2.4960629921259843in"}{width="3.326771653543307in"
height="2.4960629921259843in"}
Figure 8.3.2.3-7: ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ for bands in L-L and H-H combinations,
excluding bands causing a harmonic problem
Figure 8.3.2.3-8 present ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ for L and H bands when part of L-H
combination. Variation for dTib is not as small as expected with dTib peak at
0.3 dB and dRib peak at 0 dB. Peaks are at expected places but again E-UTRA
agreement seems to be unforgotten, dTib 0.3 dB and dRib 0 dB, perhaps the
reason is that more bands for VH regions is introduced but we doubt that.
{width="3.326771653543307in"
height="2.4960629921259843in"}{width="3.326771653543307in"
height="2.4960629921259843in"}
Figure 8.3.2.3-8: ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ in dual-band L-H combinations, excluding
bands causing a harmonic problem
Figure 8.3.2.3-9 and Figure 8.3.2.3-10 present ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ for L bands
and for H bands respectively for the case that L-L and H-H are part of
combination with at least one L or H or VH band. Variation is large with dTib
peak at 0.6 dB and dRib peak at 0.2 dB. Peak values are justified roughly but
the variation is again haphazard.
{width="3.326771653543307in"
height="2.4960629921259843in"}{width="3.326771653543307in"
height="2.4960629921259843in"}
Figure 8.3.2.3-9: ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ for L bands in combinations of two L bands
and at least one H/VH band,\ excluding bands causing a harmonic problem
{width="3.326771653543307in"
height="2.4960629921259843in"}{width="3.326771653543307in"
height="2.4960629921259843in"}
Figure 8.3.2.3-10: ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ for H bands in combinations of two H
bands and at least one L/VH band,\ excluding bands causing a harmonic problem
Figure 8.3.2.3-11 present ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ for H bands when combination has
at least three H bands. Variation is not very large for dTib with peak at 0.5
dB but dRib variation is substantial with peak at 0 dB
{width="3.326771653543307in"
height="2.4960629921259843in"}{width="3.326771653543307in"
height="2.4960629921259843in"}
Figure 8.3.2.3-11: ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ for H bands in combinations with at least
three H bands and possibly L/VH bands,\ excluding bands causing a harmonic
problem
#### 8.3.2.4 New template for ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~ tables in Rel-18
For the UE which supports CA/DC configurations, the allowed maximum configured
output power relaxation has been set for the inter-band or SUL operation as
ΔT~IB,c~. The allowed reference sensitivity relaxation has been set for the
inter-band operation as ΔR~IB,c~. However, with the explosive growth of the
number of combinations, the ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~ tables in the specifications
are seriously oversized and the readability is deteriorated. To optimize the
tables of ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~, a new template in Table 8.3.2.4-1 and Table
8.3.2.4-2 is proposed in Rel-18 respectively.
**Table 8.3.2.4-1: New template for ΔT~IB,c~ tables in Rel-18**
+--------------------+--------------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+ | Inter-band EN-DC | ΔT~IB,c~ for | | | | | | configuration | E-UTRA band / NR | | | | | | | band (dB) | | | | | +====================+====================+=====+=====+=====+=====+ | | Component band in | | | | | | | order of bands in | | | | | | | configuration | | | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+ | DC_1-3-7-40_n78 | 0.6 | 0.6 | 0.5 | 0.3 | 0.8 | +--------------------+--------------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+ | DC_1-3-8-11_n28 | 0.3 | 0.8 | 0.6 | 0.9 | 0.6 | +--------------------+--------------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+ | ... | ... | ... | ... | ... | ... | +--------------------+--------------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+ | Note 1: "-" | | | | | | | denotes | | | | | | | **ΔT~IB,c~** = 0. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: The | | | | | | | component band | | | | | | | order in the | | | | | | | configuration | | | | | | | should be listed | | | | | | | by the order of | | | | | | | E-UTRA band and NR | | | | | | | band respectively, | | | | | | | such as for | | | | | | | DC_2-48_(n)5 the | | | | | | | band order from | | | | | | | left to right is | | | | | | | 2, 5, 48 and n5. | | | | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+
**Table 8.3.2.4-2: New template for ΔR~IB,c~ tables in Rel-18**
+--------------------+--------------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+ | Inter-band EN-DC | ΔR~IB,c~ for | | | | | | configuration | E-UTRA band / NR | | | | | | | band (dB) | | | | | +====================+====================+=====+=====+=====+=====+ | | Component band in | | | | | | | order of bands in | | | | | | | configuration | | | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+ | DC_1-3-7-40_n78 | 0.2 | 0.2 | - | 0.4 | 0.5 | +--------------------+--------------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+ | DC_1-3-8-11_n28 | - | 0.3 | 0.2 | 0.5 | 0.2 | +--------------------+--------------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+ | ... | ... | ... | ... | ... | ... | +--------------------+--------------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+ | Note 1: "-" | | | | | | | denotes | | | | | | | **ΔR~IB,c~** = 0. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: The | | | | | | | component band | | | | | | | order in the | | | | | | | configuration | | | | | | | should be listed | | | | | | | by the order of | | | | | | | E-UTRA band and NR | | | | | | | band respectively, | | | | | | | such as for | | | | | | | DC_2-48_(n)5 the | | | | | | | band order from | | | | | | | left to right is | | | | | | | 2, 5, 48 and n5. | | | | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+
### 8.3.3 Further simplification on configuration tables for NR inter-band CA
and SUL in Rel-18
#### 8.3.3.1 Necessity for further simplification
In the previous sub-clauses 8.3.1.1 and 8.3.1.2, some simplifications have
already done for the configuration tables of NR inter-band CA and SUL, for
example decoupling SCS with the supported channel bandwidths to save the
pages, replacing 'Yes' with specific number of each CBW etc.
**In current specifications, almost all of** configuration tables **are
written in horizontal view to include all the channel bandwidths which are
listed one by one in separate columns. For FR1-FR2 inter-band CA
configuration, it seems the configuration table is already exceed the
horizontal page. For FR1-FR1 NR inter-band CA configurations and SUL
configurations, there exists highly potential risk problem of horizontal
expansion when new columns are added to include new channel bandwidths. There
are no such problems for FR2-FR2 inter-band CA configurations due to no new
channel bandwidths are introduced for FR2 band as of today.**
**W** hen new channel bandwidths are added for bands**, such as 35MHz and
45MHz or more new added channel bandwidths in future, some disadvantages of
the existing tables are observed** :
1\. Potential risk of horizontal expansion due to table will become wider and
wider.
2\. Difficult to maintain due to the table is quite large and the formats
needs to be adjusted manually, which would cause additional mistakes.
3\. Some columns may need to be squeezed to fit all supported channel
bandwidths and meanwhile to restrict the table horizontal size, which would
cause across rows for the configuration.
Considering the above **disadvantages, especially the first one for FR1-FR1 NR
inter-band CA, SUL and FR1-FR2 NR inter-band CA configurations** , it is
necessary to further simply the configuration tables. For FR2-FR2 **inter-band
CA configurations, the format should be kept consistency with the others from
the specification consistency perspective since it is important to use a
uniform format cross the specifications.**
#### 8.3.3.2 Proposed approaches
It is feasible to further simply the channel bandwidth columns considering it
occupies large content/space of the table and meanwhile the channel bandwidths
are written in numbers.
The new formats on further simply the channel bandwidth columns in the CA
configuration tables in TS38.101-1/2/3 specs for inter-band NR CA(from 2 bands
DL to 5 bands DL) and SUL configuration tables by using the following approach
(New format):
\- Merging all the channel bandwidth columns into one column.
\- Using ',' between two adjacent channel bandwidths.
\- Removing the channel bandwidth number in the table head.
\- (Only for inter-band NR CA) Using simple texts like 'CA_nXC_BCS0' or
'CA_nX(2A)_BCS0' for the constitute band supporting intra-band contiguous or
non-contiguous CA , respectively, associated with a new note of "The CA
configurations are given in Table 5.5A.1-1 or Table 5.5A.2-1 in this
specification".
The following are some examples to further explain the above approaches.
The original configurations table for some configurations of **SUL, FR1-FR1 NR
2DL inter-band CA, FR2-FR2 NR 2DL inter-band CA and FR1+FR2 NR 2DL inter-band
CA from the current TS38.101-1, TS38.101-2 and TS38.101-3 specifications are
listed as following:**
**[TS38.101-1: (SUL)]{.underline}**
SUL configuration | NR Band | Channel bandwidth (MHz) (NOTE 1) | Bandwidth combination set |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 | 50 | 60 | **70** MHz | 80 | 90 | 100 |   
SUL_n24A-n99A | n24 | 5 | 10 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
| n99 | 5 | 10 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
SUL_n41A-n80A | n41 |  | 10 | 15 | 20 |  |  | 40 | 50 | 60 |  | 80 | 90 | 100 | 0  
| n80 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| n41 |  | 10 | 15 | 20 |  | 30 | 40 | 50 | 60 |  | 80 | 90 | 100 | 1  
| n80 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
**[TS38.101-1: (2DL CA)]{.underline}**
NR CA configuration Uplink CA configuration NR Band Channel bandwidth (MHz)
(NOTE 3) Bandwidth combination set
* * *
                                                            5                                                           10                          15   20   25   30   40   50   60   70   80   90   100
CA_n1A-n3A CA_n1A-n3A n1 5 10 15 20 0 n3 5 10 15 20 25 30  
n1 5 10 15 20 25 30 40 50 1 n3 5 10 15 20 25 30 40  
CA_n1B-n3A CA_n1A-n3A n1 See CA_n1B Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table
5.5A.1-1 0  
n3 5 10 15 20 25 30  
n1 See CA_n1B Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table 5.5A.1-1 1  
n3 5 10 15 20 25 30 40
**[TS38.101-2: (2DL CA)]{.underline}**
NR CA configuration Uplink CA configuration NR Band Channel bandwidth (MHz)
(NOTE 1) Bandwidth combination set
* * *
                                                            50                                 100                         200   400
CA_n257A-n259A - n257 50 100 200 400 0 n259 50 100 200 400  
CA_n257A-n259G - n257 50 100 200 400 0 n259 CA_n259G
**[TS38.101-3: (2DL CA)]{.underline}**
NR CA configuration Uplink CA configuration NR Band Channel bandwidth (MHz)
(NOTE 3) Bandwidth combination set
* * *
                                                            5                                  10                          15   20   25   30   40   50   60   70   80   90   100   200   400
CA_n1A-n257A CA_n1A-n257A n1 5 10 15 20 0 n257 50 100 200 400  
CA_n1A-n257D - n1 5 10 15 20 0 n257 CA_n257D
By using the above proposed approaches, the above tables are rearranged which
look like as follow:
**[TS38.101-1: (SUL)]{.underline}**
SUL configuration NR Band Channel bandwidth (MHz) (NOTE 1) Bandwidth
combination set
* * *
SUL_n24A-n99A n24 5, 10 0 n99 5, 10  
SUL_n41A-n80A n41 10, 15, 20, 40, 50, 60, 80, 90, 100 0 n80 5, 10, 15, 20, 25,
30  
n41 10, 15, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 80, 90, 100 1 n80 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 40
**[TS38.101-1 (2DL CA):]{.underline}**
NR CA configuration Uplink CA configuration NR Band Channel bandwidth (MHz)
(NOTE 3) Bandwidth combination set
* * *
CA_n1A-n3A CA_n1A-n3A n1 5, 10, 15, 20 0 n3 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30  
n1 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 40, 50 1 n3 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 40  
CA_n1B-n3A CA_n1A-n3A n1 CA_n1B_BCS0 0 n3 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30  
n1 CA_n1B_BCS0 1 n3 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 40  
NOTE X: The CA configurations are given in Table 5.5A.1-1 or Table 5.5A.2-1 in
this specification
**[TS38.101-2 (2DL CA):]{.underline}**
NR CA configuration Uplink CA configuration NR Band Channel bandwidth (MHz)
(NOTE 1) Bandwidth combination set
* * *
CA_n257A-n259A - n257 50, 100, 200, 400 0 n259 50, 100, 200, 400  
CA_n257A-n259G - n257 50, 100, 200, 400 0 n259 CA_n259G
**[TS38.101-3 (2DL CA):]{.underline}**
NR CA configuration Uplink CA configuration NR Band Channel bandwidth (MHz)
(NOTE 3) Bandwidth combination set
* * *
CA_n1A-n257A CA_n1A-n257A n1 5, 10, 15, 20 0 n257 50, 100, 200, 400  
CA_n1A-n257D - n1 5, 10, 15, 20 0 n257 CA_n257D
**With the above new proposed formats,** we can see that the table
**horizontal size is dramatically reduced, even it can be inverted from
horizontal to vertical. Meanwhile, it becomes much easier to maintain the
table since it is no need to add new columns, instead adding the number
directly on the top of the existing ones if new channel bandwidths (BCS) are
added. More importantly, the original information aren't lost.**
#### 8.3.3.3 When to implement
Considering the completion time for Rel-17 basket WID is Mar. 2022 and it may
not appropriate to change the table formats during the release, so we think
the appropriate time to implement the above new formats is RAN4 #102-e meeting
in Feb. 2022. In this case, the new formats can be reflected in the first
Rel-18 version.
In RAN4 #102-e meeting, each rapporteur should use the new formats in their
rapporteur big CR to reflect the approved TPs and endorsed CRs.
At the beginning of Rel-18, the new formats should be used in the
configuration tables in the EXCEL file for NR inter-band CA and SUL band
combinations requesting and also in proponent's TP and rapporteurs TR
templates in Rel-18, Meanwhile, the approved templates for the BCS table for
inter-band CA/SUL should be updated.
# 9 Void
# 10 Conclusion
Compared with previous generations, 5G NR have much more complex band
combination configurations being specified due to the number of bands,
multiple numerologies, larger channel bandwidth, size of channel bandwidth
set, and etc. In this study item, optimization to CA/DC band combinations for
a concise RAN4 specifications has been studied. The CA/DC band combination
related rules have also been collected for people understanding RAN4 core
specifications easily. The key functionalities of this SI mainly include the
following aspects.
\- To capture the workflow on introduction of band combinations for block
approval and introduce new template of band combination request sheets for
Rel-17 basket WIs so as to reduce the workload of the basket WI rapporteur.
\- To indicate the rules for band combinations not valid or not for block
approval.
\- To collect agreements on the rules of specifying band combinations, and
facilitate people's understanding of the complex notations of CA/DC
combinations.
\- To study the optimization rules for band combinations within the timescale
of Rel-17 and provide further possible optimization in Rel-18.
# Annex A: Change history
* * *
**Change history**  
**Date** **Meeting** **TDoc** **CR** **Rev** **Cat** **Subject/Comment** **New
version** 2021-04 3GPP RAN4#98bis-e R4-2105431 Initial TR skeleton 0.0.1
2021-04 3GPP RAN4#98bis-e R4-2105430 TP on rules and guidelines for specifying
band combinations 0.1.0 2021-05 3GPP RAN4#99-e R4-2107889 TP on rules of CA
configuration table 0.2.0 2021-05 3GPP RAN4#99-e R4-2107890 TP for 38.xxx to
capture the request's template and workflow 0.2.0 2021-08 3GPP RAN4#100-e
R4-2112719 TP on rules of DC configuration table 0.3.0 2021-08 3GPP RAN4#100-e
R4-2112720 TP on channel bandwidth for CA configuration table 0.3.0 2021-08
3GPP RAN4#100-e R4-2115052 TP on the rules of NE-DC with contiguous intra-band
0.3.0 2021-08 3GPP RAN4#100-e R4-2115053 TP on ULSUP notation 0.3.0 2021-08
3GPP RAN4#100-e R4-2115054 TP for TR 38.862 on addition or removal of channel
BWs in existing BCSs 0.3.0 2021-08 3GPP RAN4#100-e R4-2115055 TP to
TR38.862_Guidelines on the band edge relaxation for MOP for band combination
0.3.0 2021-11 3GPP RAN4#101-e R4-2119075 TP to TR38.862 on CA and DC
configuration table structure 0.4.0 2021-11 3GPP RAN4#101-e R4-2120021 TP to
TR38.862: Further simplification on configuration tables for NR inter-band CA
and SUL in Rel-18 0.4.0 2021-11 3GPP RAN4#101-e R4-2119944 TP for TR 38.862 on
PC2 band combinations with more than 2 DL bands 0.4.0 2022-01 3GPP
RAN4#101-bis-e R4-2202385 TP to TR 38.862 on introduction to BCS4 and BCS5
0.5.0 2022-01 3GPP RAN4#101-bis-e R4-2201296 TP for TR 38.862 on the maximum
aggregated bandwidth for intra-band CA with BCS4/BCS5 0.5.0 2022-03 3GPP
RAN4#102-e R4-2204010 TP to TR 38.862 on symbols and abbreviations 0.6.0
2022-03 3GPP RAN4#102-e R4-2205707 TP to 38.862 on that higher order TP(s) are
pending approval of fallback(s) 0.6.0 2022-03 3GPP RAN4#102-e R4-2205708 TP to
38.862 on rule about not merging cells in CA configuration tables 0.6.0
2022-03 3GPP RAN4#102-e R4-2204011 TP to TR 38.862 on template of delta TIB
and RIB tables 0.6.0 2022-03 3GPP RAN4#102-e R4-2204785 TP to TR 38.862:
Statistics of dTib and dRib 0.6.0 2022-03 3GPP RAN4#102-e R4-2206562 TP to
TR38.862 on BC not for block approval and guidelines on single band UL
configurations using intra-band UL CA 0.6.0 2022-03 3GPP RAN#95-e RP-220166 TR
38.862 v100 Study on band combination handling in RAN4 1.0.0 2022-03 3GPP
RAN#95-e RP-220934 TR 38.862 v101 Study on band combination handling in RAN4
1.0.1
* * *
**Change history**