# Foreword {#foreword-1}
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document covers the RF and co-existence aspects of the work item
"Solutions for NR to support non-terrestrial networks (NTN)" [2]
The objectives for the study are the following:
\- Study and specify adjacent channel co-existence scenarios of Non-
terrestrial networks (NTN).
\- Study and specify needed generic RF core requirements for the network and
the UE such that adjacent channel co-existence scenarios are met.
NOTE: Satellite operation is used as complementarily to Terrestrial Network
operation, and in separate location when satellite operates in an adjacent
channel/band of terrestrial network. For instance, NTN satellite UE is assumed
to connect and transmit to the satellite when it is outside a Terrestrial
Network operating in an adjacent channel/band. The satellite beam might still
overlap the terrestrial network.
# 2 Reference
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
> \- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
>
> \- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of
> a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
> reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
> same Release as the present document_.
>
> [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP RP-213691: \"Revised WID: Solutions for NR to support non-terrestrial
networks (NTN)\".
[3] ITU-R Radio Regulations, 2020 Edition
[4] ECC Decision 06(09): \"Designation of the bands 1980-2010 MHz and
2170-2200 MHz for use by systems in the Mobile-Satellite Service including
those supplemented by a Complementary Ground Component (CGC)\", Approved 01
December 2006, Amended 05 September 2007,
[5] 3GPP TR 38.811: \"Study on New Radio (NR) to support non-terrestrial
networks\".
[6] 3GPP TR 38.821: \"Solutions for NR to support Non-Terrestrial Networks
(NTN)\".
[7] 3GPP RP-152284: \"Revised Work Item: Narrowband IoT \".
[8] 3GPP TR 36.942: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios\".
[9] 3GPP TR 45.820: \"Cellular system support for ultra-low complexity and low
throughput Internet of Things (CIoT)\".
[10] 3GPP TR 38.901: \"Study on channel model for frequencies from 0.5 to 100
GHz\".
[11] Report ITU-R M.2292: \"Characteristics of terrestrial IMT-Advanced
systems for frequency sharing/interference analyses\".
[12] 3GPP RP-200559: \"LS on Parameters of terrestrial component of IMT for
sharing and compatibility studies in preparation for WRC-23 (below 5 GHz) \".
[13] ITU-R Annex 4.4 to Document 5D/716-E.
[14] 3GPP TR 38.921: \"Study on International Mobile Telecommunications (IMT)
parameters for 6.425 - 7.025 GHz, 7.025 - 7.125 GHz and 10.0 - 10.5 GHz\".
[15] 3GPP TR 36.802: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
NB-IOT; Technical Report for BS and UE radio transmission and reception\".
[16] 3GPP TS 38.104: \"NR; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and
reception\".
[17] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".
[18] 3GPP R4-2111460: \"On the Rx Parameters and Rx Testing Setup for NTN
gNB\".
[19] 3GPP R4-2108099: \"WF on [312] NTN_Solutions_Part1\".
[20] FCC Online Table of Frequency Allocations, 47 C.F.R § 2.106, February 1,
2021.
[21] FCC Order 03-15, Report and Order and Notice of Proposed Rule Making,
January 29, 2003.
[22] FCC Order 20-48, Order and Authorization, April 19, 2020.
[23] FCC Code of Federal Regulations.
[24] SoftBank, Loon LLC, Nokia, Ericsson, "Proposed deployment and system
characteristics of HIBS in the working document towards a preliminary draft
new Report ITU-R M.[HIBS-CHARACTERISTICS]," ITU WP-5D contribution, Sep. 28,
2020.
[25] 3GPP TS 38.181: \"NR; Satellite Node conformance testing\".
[26] 3GPP TS 38.108: \"NR; Satellite Node radio transmission and reception\".
[27] 3GPP R4-213618: \"Moderator's summary of discussion [94e-41-R17-NRNTN-
RAN4Spec] \".
[28] ERC Recommendation 74-01: \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious domain\".
[29] Recommendation ITU-R SM.1541-6: \"Unwanted emissions in the out-of-band
domain\".
[30] Recommendation ITU-R SM.329: \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\".
[31] 3GPP TR 38.817-02: \"General aspects for Base Station (BS) Radio
Frequency (RF) for NR\".
[32] 3GPP TR 38.817-01: \" General aspects for User Equipment (UE) Radio
Frequency (RF) for NR\".
# 3 Definition of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Feeder link:** Wireless link between NTN-Gateway and satellite
**Geostationary Earth Orbit:** Circular orbit at 35,786 km above the Earth\'s
equator and following the direction of the Earth\'s rotation. An object in
such an orbit has an orbital period equal to the Earth\'s rotational period
and thus appears motionless, at a fixed position in the sky, to ground
observers.
**Geosynchronous Orbit:** Earth-centered orbit at approximately 35786
kilometres above Earth\'s surface and synchronised with Earth\'s rotation. A
geostationary orbit is a non-inclined geosynchronous orbit, i.e. in the
Earth's equator plane.
**Low Earth Orbit:** Orbit around the Earth with an altitude between 300 km,
and 1500 km.
**Minimum Elevation angle** : Minimum angle under which the satellite or HAPS
can be seen by a UE.
**Non-Geostationary Satellites:** Satellites (LEO and MEO) orbiting around the
Earth with a period that varies approximately between 1.5 hour and 10 hours.
It is necessary to have a constellation of several Non-Geostationary
satellites associated with handover mechanisms to ensure a service continuity.
**Non-terrestrial networks:** Networks, or segments of networks, using an
airborne or space-borne vehicle to embark a transmission equipment relay node
or base station.
**NTN-Gateway:** An earth station or gateway is located at the surface of
Earth, and providing sufficient RF power and RF sensitivity for accessing to
the satellite (resp. HAPS).
**Satellite:** A space-borne vehicle embarking a bent pipe payload or a
regenerative payload telecommunication transmitter, placed into Low-Earth
Orbit (LEO), Medium-Earth Orbit (MEO), or Geostationary Earth Orbit (GEO).
**Service link:** Radio link between satellite and UE
**Transparent payload:** Payload that changes the frequency carrier of the
UL/DL RF signal, filters and amplifies it before transmitting it on the DL/UL,
respectively.
**UE transmission bandwidth configuration** : Set of resource blocks located
within the UE channel bandwidth which may be used for transmitting or
receiving by the UE.
**User Throughput:** data rate provided to a terminal
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
ΔF~Raster~ Band dependent channel raster granularityΔF~Global~ Granularity of
the global frequency raster
ΔF~Raster~ Band dependent channel raster granularity
BW~Channel~ Channel bandwidth
BW~interferer~ Bandwidth of the interferer
F~DL_low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink _operating band_
F~DL_high~ The highest frequency of the downlink _operating band_
F~UL_low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink _operating band_
F~UL_high~ The highest frequency of the uplink _operating band_
F~Interferer~ Frequency of the interferer
F~Interferer~ (offset) Frequency offset of the interferer (between the center
frequency of the interferer and the carrier frequency of the carrier measured)
F~Ioffset~ Frequency offset of the interferer (between the center frequency of
the interferer and the closest edge of the carrier measured)
F~OOB~ The boundary between the NR out of band emission and spurious emission
domains
F~REF~ RF reference frequency
F~REF-Offs~ Offset used for calculating F~REF~
F~uw~ (offset) The frequency separation of the center frequency of the carrier
closest to the interferer and the center frequency of the interferer
N~RB~ Transmission bandwidth configuration, expressed in units of resource
blocks N~REF~ NR Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (NR-ARFCN)
N~REF~ NR Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (NR-ARFCN)
N~REF-Offs~ Offset used for calculating N~REF~
P~Interferer~ Modulated mean power of the interferer
P~uw~ Power of an unwanted DL signal
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
A-MPR Additional Maximum Power Reduction
BS Base Station
BW Bandwidth
BWP Bandwidth Part
CG Carrier Group
CP-OFDM Cyclic Prefix-OFDM
CW Continuous Wave
DFT-s-OFDM Discrete Fourier Transform-spread-OFDM
DM-RS Demodulation Reference Signal
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
EIRP Equivalent Isotropically Radiated Power
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
FR Frequency Range
FRC Fixed Reference Channel
FRF Frequency Reuse Factor
FSS Fixed Satellite Services
FWA Fixed Wireless Access
GEO Geostationary Earth Orbiting
gNB next Generation Node B
GW Gateway
GSCN Global Synchronization Channel Number
HAPS High Altitude Platform Station
HIPS HAPS as IMT Base Stations
IBB In-band Blocking
IDFT Inverse Discrete Fourier Transformation
ISL Inter-Satellite Links
ITU‑R Radiocommunication Sector of the International Telecommunication Union
LEO Low Earth Orbiting
Mbps Mega bit per second
MBW Measurement bandwidth defined for the protected band
MCG Master Cell Group
MEO Medium Earth Orbiting
MOP Maximum Output Power
MPR Allowed maximum power reduction
MS Mobile Services
MSD Maximum Sensitivity Degradation
MSS Mobile Satellite Services
NGEO Non-Geostationary Earth Orbiting
NR New Radio
NR-ARFCN NR Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
NS Network Signalling
NTN Non-Terrestrial Network
OCNG OFDMA Channel Noise Generator
OOB Out-of-band
P-MPR Power Management Maximum Power Reduction
PRB Physical Resource Block
PSCCH Physical Sidelink Control CHannel
PSSCH Physical Sidelink Shared CHannel
QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
RAN Radio Access Network
RE Resource Element
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity
RF Radio Frequency
RMS Root Mean Square (value)
RSRP Reference Signal Receiving Power
Rx Receiver
SAN Satellite Access Node
SC Single Carrier
SCG Secondary Cell Group
SCS Subcarrier spacing
SEM Spectrum Emission Mask
SNR Signal-to-Noise Ratio
SRS Sounding Reference Symbol
SS Synchronization Symbol
TAE Time Alignment Error
TAG Timing Advance Group
Tx Transmitter
TxD Tx Diversity
UE User Equipment
ULFPTx Uplink Full Power Transmission
# 4 General aspects
## 4.1 Work item objectives
The Work item objectives are captured in [2].
# 5 Regulatory aspects
## 5.1 ITU-R
The following services are among those defined in the ITU-R Radio Regulations
[3]:
\- Fixed (1.20): A radiocommunication service between specified fixed points.
\- Fixed satellite (1.21) : A radiocommunication service between earth
stations at given positions, when one or more satellites are used; the given
position may be a specified fixed point or any fixed point within specified
areas; in some cases this service includes satellite-to-satellite links, which
may also be operated in the inter-satellite service; the fixed-satellite
service may also include feeder links for other space radiocommunication
services.
\- Mobile (1.24): radiocommunication service between mobile and land stations,
or between mobile stations (CV).
\- Mobile satellite (1.25): A radiocommunication service:
\- between mobile earth stations and one or more space stations, or between
space stations used by this service; or
\- between mobile earth stations by means of one or more space stations.
This service may also include feeder links necessary for its operation.
Based on the ITU-R Radio Regulations [3], the following frequency ranges are
allocated to MSS and have been identified as first candidate bands for NTN
satellite operations:
\- S-band: UL: 1980--2010 MHz / DL: 2170--2200 MHz.
\- L-band: UL: 1626.5-1660.5 MHz / DL: 1525-1559 MHz.
For providing mobile services through HAPS, current ITU-R Radio Regulations
[3] allow the use of frequency ranges 1885--1980 MHz, 2010-2025 MHz and 2110--
2170 MHz by HAPS. Additional spectrum may be allocated for HAPS in 2023 (see
clause 5.3).
## 5.2 Regulatory aspects for NTN satellites
### 5.2.1 NTN Satellite band: UL 1980--2010 MHz / DL 2170--2200 MHz
The ITU-R Radio Regulations [3] specify the following service allocation for
those frequency ranges, shown in Table 5.2.1-1:
Table 5.2.1-1: Allocation of 1980--2010 MHz and 2170--2200 MHz in the ITU-R
Radio Regulations
+----------------------------------------------+----------+----------+ | Allocation to services | | | +==============================================+==========+==========+ | Region 1 | Region 2 | Region 3 | +----------------------------------------------+----------+----------+ | 2 170-2 200 FIXED | | | | | | | | MOBILE | | | | | | | | MOBILE-SATELLITE (space-to-Earth) 5.351A | | | | | | | | 5.388 5.389A 5.389F | | | +----------------------------------------------+----------+----------+ | | | | +----------------------------------------------+----------+----------+ | 1 980-2 010 FIXED | | | | | | | | MOBILE | | | | | | | | MOBILE-SATELLITE (Earth-to-space) 5.351A | | | | | | | | 5.388 5.389A 5.389B 5.389F | | | +----------------------------------------------+----------+----------+ | 5.351A: For the use of the bands 1 518-1 544 | | | | MHz, 1 545-1 559 MHz, 1 610-1 645.5 MHz, 1 | | | | 646.5-1 660.5 MHz,1 668- 1 675 MHz, 1 980-2 | | | | 010 MHz, 2 170-2 200 MHz, 2 483.5-2 520 MHz | | | | and 2 670-2 690 MHz by the mobile satellite | | | | service, see Resolutions 212 (Rev.WRC-07)* | | | | and 225 (Rev.WRC-07)**. | | | | | | | | * This Resolution was revised by WRC-15 and | | | | WRC-19. | | | | | | | | ** This Resolution was revised by WRC-12. | | | | | | | | 5.388: The frequency bands 1 885-2 025 MHz | | | | and 2 110-2 200 MHz are intended for use, on | | | | a worldwide basis, by administrations | | | | wishing to implement International Mobile | | | | Telecommunications (IMT). Such use does not | | | | preclude the use of these frequency bands by | | | | other services to which they are allocated. | | | | The frequency bands should be made available | | | | for IMT in accordance with Resolution 212 | | | | (Rev.WRC-15)* (see also Resolution 223 | | | | (Rev.WRC-15)*). (WRC-15) | | | | | | | | * This Resolution was revised by WRC-19. | | | | | | | | 5.389A: The use of the bands 1 980-2 010 MHz | | | | and 2 170-2 200 MHz by the mobile-satellite | | | | service is subject to coordination under No. | | | | 9.11A and to the provisions of Resolution | | | | 716 (Rev.WRC-2000)**. | | | | | | | | ** This Resolution was revised by WRC-12. | | | | | | | | 5.389B: The use of the frequency band 1 | | | | 980-1 990 MHz by the mobile-satellite | | | | service shall not cause harmful interference | | | | to or constrain the development of the fixed | | | | and mobile services in Argentina, Brazil, | | | | Canada, Chile, Ecuador,the United States, | | | | Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, | | | | Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay and | | | | Venezuela. (WRC-19) | | | | | | | | 5.389F: In Algeria, Cape Verde, Egypt, Iran | | | | (Islamic Republic of), Mali, Syrian Arab | | | | Republic and Tunisia, the use of the | | | | frequency bands 1 980-2 010 MHz and 2 170-2 | | | | 200 MHz by the mobile-satellite service | | | | shall neither cause harmful interference to | | | | the fixed and mobile services, nor hamper | | | | the development of those services prior to 1 | | | | January 2005, nor shall the former service | | | | request protection from the latter services. | | | | (WRC-19) | | | +----------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
Following Figure 5.2.1-1 gives an overview of the NR TN bands adjacent to the
NTN n256 band.
{width="6.850694444444445in" height="3.3777777777777778in"}
Figure 5.2.1-1: Adjacent TN bands to NTN band n256
As shown in Figure 5.2.1-1, the NTN satellite band is adjacent to NR bands n1
(FDD) and n34 (TDD). The bands need to be protected and co-existence analysis
is required to determine the Adjacent Channel Interference Ratio (ACIR) and
in-band power levels.
Also, the NTN band n256 will fully be overlapped by TN NR bands n65 and partly
overlapped by TN NR bands n2, n25, n70 and n66, limiting band n256 deployment
accordingly to countries where n2, n25 and/or n70 are not deployed or regional
regulation applies.
Per ECC Decision 06(09) [4], n256 and Complementary Ground Component (CGC)
could operate simultaneously in the upper 30 MHz portion of n65 in CEPT
countries.
### 5.2.2 NTN Satellite band: UL 1626.5--1660.5 MHz / DL 1525--1559 MHz
The ITU-R Radio Regulations [3] specify the following service allocation for
frequency ranges 1525 -- 1559 MHz and 1626.5 -- 1660.5 MHz as shown in Table
5.2.2-1.
Table 5.2.2-1: Allocation of 1525 --1559 MHz and 1626.5 -- 1660.5 MHz in the
ITU-R Radio Regulations
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Allocation to | | | | services | | | +======================+======================+======================+ | Region 1 | Region 2 | Region 3 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1 525-1 530 | 1 525-1 530 | 1 525-1 530 | | | | | | SPACE OPERATION | SPACE OPERATION | SPACE OPERATION | | | | | | (space-to-Earth) | (space-to-Earth) | (space-to-Earth) | | | | | | FIXED | MOBILE-SATELLITE | FIXED | | | | | | MOBILE-SATELLITE | (space-to-Earth) | MOBILE-SATELLITE | | | 5.208B 5.351A | | | (space-to-Earth) | | (space-to-Earth) | | 5.208B 5.351A | Earth | 5.208B 5.351A Earth | | | e | e | | Earth | xploration-satellite | xploration-satellite | | e | | | | xploration-satellite | Fixed | Mobile 5.349 | | | | | | Mobile except | Mobile 5.343 | 5.341 5.351 5.352A | | aeronautical mobile | | 5.354 | | 5.349 | 5.341 5.351 5.354 | | | | | | | 5.341 5.342 5.350 | | | | 5.351 | | | | | | | | 5.352A 5.354 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1 530-1 535 | 1 530-1 535 | | | | | | | SPACE OPERATION | SPACE OPERATION | | | | (space-to-Earth) | | | (space-to-Earth) | | | | | MOBILE-SATELLITE | | | MOBILE-SATELLITE | (space-to-Earth) | | | | 5.208B 5.351A 5.353A | | | (space-to-Earth) | | | | 5.208B 5.351A | Earth | | | | e | | | 5.353A | xploration-satellite | | | | | | | Earth | Fixed | | | e | | | | xploration-satellite | Mobile 5.343 | | | | | | | Fixed | 5.341 5.351 5.354 | | | | | | | Mobile except | | | | aeronautical mobile | | | | | | | | 5.341 5.342 5.351 | | | | 5.354 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1 535-1 559 | | | | MOBILE-SATELLITE | | | | (space-to-Earth) | | | | 5.208B 5.351A | | | | | | | | 5.341 5.351 5.353A | | | | 5.354 5.355 5.356 | | | | 5.357 5.357A 5.359 | | | | 5.362A | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1 626.5-1 660 | | | | MOBILE-SATELLITE | | | | (Earth-to-space) | | | | 5.351A | | | | | | | | 5.341 5.351 5.353A | | | | 5.354 5.355 5.357A | | | | 5.359 5.362A 5.374 | | | | 5.375 5.376 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1 660-1 660.5 | | | | MOBILE-SATELLITE | | | | (Earth-to-space) | | | | 5.351A | | | | | | | | RADIO ASTRONOMY | | | | | | | | 5.149 5.341 5.354 | | | | 5.362A 5.376A | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The details of the | | | | notes 5.208B, 5.341, | | | | 5.342, 5.350, 5.351, | | | | 5.351A, 5.352A, | | | | 5.353A, 5.354, | | | | 5.355, 5.356, 5.357, | | | | 5.357A, 5.359, | | | | 5.362A, 5.374, 5.375 | | | | and 5.376A related | | | | to MOBILE-SATELLITE | | | | service can be found | | | | in [3]. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
FCC's specifies the following service allocation for frequency ranges 1525 --
1559 MHz and 1626.5 -- 1660.5 MHz in USA[20] as shown in Table 5.2.2-2.
Table 5.2.2-2: Allocation of 1525 --1559 MHz and 1626.5 -- 1660.5 MHz in the
US
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Allocation to services | | | +========================+========================+==================+ | Federal Table | Non-Federal Table | FCC Rule Part(2) | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | 1525-1535 | Satellite | | | | Communications (25) | | | MOBILE-SATELLITE | | | | (space-to-Earth) US315 | Maritime (80) | | | US380 | | | | | | | | 5.341 5.351 | | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | 1535-1559 | Satellite | | | | Communications (25) | | | MOBILE-SATELLITE | | | | (space-to-Earth) US308 | Maritime (80) | | | US309 US315 US380 | | | | | Aviation (87) | | | 5.341 5.351 5.356 | | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | 1626.5-1660 | Satellite | | | | Communications (25) | | | MOBILE-SATELLITE | | | | (Earth-to-space) US308 | Maritime (80) | | | US309 US315 US380 | | | | | Aviation (87) | | | 5.341 5.351 5.375 | | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | 1660-1660.5 | Satellite | | | | Communications (25) | | | MOBILE-SATELLITE | | | | (Earth-to-space) US308 | Aviation (87) | | | US309 US380 | | | | | | | | RADIO ASTRONOMY | | | | | | | | 5.341 5.351 US342 | | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | The details of the | | | | notes 5.341, 5.351, | | | | 5.356, 5.375, US308, | | | | US309, US315 and US342 | | | | related to | | | | MOBILE-SATELLITE | | | | service can be found | | | | in [20]. | | | | | | | | US380 In the bands | | | | 1525-1544 MHz, | | | | 1545-1559 MHz, | | | | 1610-1645.5 MHz, | | | | 1646.5-1660.5 MHz, and | | | | 2483.5-2500 MHz, a | | | | non-Federal licensee | | | | in the | | | | mobile-satellite | | | | service (MSS) may also | | | | operate an ancillary | | | | terrestrial component | | | | in conjunction with | | | | its MSS network, | | | | subject to the | | | | Commission's rules for | | | | ancillary terrestrial | | | | components and subject | | | | to all applicable | | | | conditions and | | | | provisions of its MSS | | | | authorization. | | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
{width="6.39324365704287in" height="2.759740813648294in"}
NOTE: DL operation in band n24 is restricted to 1526-1536MHz and UL operation
is restricted to 1627.5-1637.5MHz and 1646.5-1656.5MHz
Figure 5.2.2-1: Adjacent TN bands to NTN band n255
As shown in Figure 5.2.2-1, the NTN satellite band is not adjacent to any TN
NR or LTE bands. The edge-to-edge separation for nearest TN band, n74 DL, is 7
MHz.
Also, the NTN band n255 fully overlaps with TN NR bands n24 and SUL NR band
n99. Per note US380 in Table 5.2.2-2 simultaneous operation of n24/n99 and
n255 is allowed in USA. Commission's authorization and technical rules for TN
can be found in FCC Orders 03-15 [21] and 20-48 [22] respectively.
Commission's technical rules for its MSS authorization can be found in FCC 47
C.F.R Part 25.
Technical rules for NTN SAN and UEs operating in 1 to 3 GHz from FCC's 47
C.F.R. § 25.202 [23] are summarized below:
47 C.F.R. § 25.202:
> _(d)__Frequency tolerance, Earth stations._ ** The carrier frequency of each
> earth station transmitter authorized in these services shall be maintained
> within 0.001 percent of the reference frequency.
>
> (e) ** _Frequency tolerance, space stations._** The carrier frequency of
> each space station transmitter authorized in these services shall be
> maintained within 0.002 percent of the reference frequency.
47 C.F.R. § 25.202 (f):
> **_Emission limitations._** Except for SDARS terrestrial repeaters and as
> provided for in paragraph (i), the mean power of emissions shall be
> attenuated below the mean output power of the transmitter in accordance with
> the schedule set forth in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(4) of this section.
> The out-of-band emissions of SDARS terrestrial repeaters shall be attenuated
> in accordance with the schedule set forth in paragraph (h) of this section.
(1) In any 4 kHz band, the center frequency of which is removed from the
assigned frequency by more than 50 percent up to and including 100 percent of
the authorized bandwidth: 25 dB;
(2) In any 4 kHz band, the center frequency of which is removed from the
assigned frequency by more than 100 percent up to and including 250 percent of
the authorized bandwidth: 35 dB;
(3) In any 4 kHz band, the center frequency of which is removed from the
assigned frequency by more than 250 percent of the authorized bandwidth: An
amount equal to 43 dB plus 10 times the logarithm (to the base 10) of the
transmitter power in watts;
(4) In any event, when an emission outside of the authorized bandwidth causes
harmful interference, the Commission may, at its discretion, require greater
attenuation than specified in paragraphs (f) (1), (2) and (3) of this section.
47 C.F.R. § 25.216:
> (a) The e.i.r.p. density of emissions from mobile earth stations placed in
> service on or before July 21, 2002 with assigned uplink frequencies between
> 1610 MHz and 1660.5 MHz shall not exceed −70 dBW/MHz, averaged over any 2
> millisecond active transmission interval, in the band 1559-1587.42 MHz. The
> e.i.r.p. of discrete emissions of less than 700 Hz bandwidth generated by
> such stations shall not exceed −80 dBW, averaged over any 2 millisecond
> active transmission interval, in that band.
>
> (b) The e.i.r.p. density of emissions from mobile earth stations placed in
> service on or before July 21, 2002 with assigned uplink frequencies between
> 1610 MHz and 1626.5 MHz shall not exceed −64 dBW/MHz, averaged over any 2
> millisecond active transmission interval, in the band 1587.42-1605 MHz. The
> e.i.r.p. of discrete emissions of less than 700 Hz bandwidth generated by
> such stations shall not exceed −74 dBW, averaged over any 2 millisecond
> active transmission interval, in the 1587.42-1605 MHz band.
>
> (c) The e.i.r.p. density of emissions from mobile earth stations placed in
> service after July 21, 2002 with assigned uplink frequencies between 1610
> MHz and 1660.5 MHz shall not exceed −70 dBW/MHz, averaged over any 2
> millisecond active transmission interval, in the band 1559-1605 MHz. The
> e.i.r.p. of discrete emissions of less than 700 Hz bandwidth from such
> stations shall not exceed −80 dBW, averaged over any 2 millisecond active
> transmission interval, in the 1559-1605 MHz band.
>
> (d) As of January 1, 2005, the e.i.r.p. density of emissions from mobile
> earth stations placed in service on or before July 21, 2002 with assigned
> uplink frequencies between 1610 MHz and 1660.5 MHz (except Standard A and B
> Inmarsat terminals used as Global Maritime Distress and Safety System ship
> earth stations) shall not exceed −70dBW/MHz, averaged over any 2 millisecond
> active transmission interval, in the 1559-1605 MHz band. The e.i.r.p. of
> discrete emissions of less than 700 Hz bandwidth from such stations shall
> not exceed −80 dBW, averaged over any 2 millisecond active transmission
> interval, in the 1559-1605 MHz band. Standard A Inmarsat terminals used as
> Global Maritime Distress and Safety System ship earth stations that do not
> meet the e.i.r.p. density limits specified in this paragraph may continue
> operation until December 31, 2007. Inmarsat-B terminals manufactured more
> than six months after Federal Register publication of the rule changes
> adopted in FCC 03-283 must meet these limits. Inmarsat B terminals
> manufactured before then are temporarily grandfathered under the condition
> that no interference is caused by these terminals to aeronautical satellite
> radio-navigation systems. The full-compliance deadline for grandfathered
> Inmarsat-B terminals is December 31, 2012.
>
> (e) The e.i.r.p density of emissions from mobile earth stations with
> assigned uplink frequencies between 1990 MHz and 2025 MHz shall not exceed
> −70 dBW/MHz, averaged over any 2 millisecond active transmission interval,
> in frequencies between 1559 MHz and 1610 MHz. The e.i.r.p. of discrete
> emissions of less than 700 Hz bandwidth from such stations between 1559 MHz
> and 1605 MHz shall not exceed −80 dBW, averaged over any 2 millisecond
> active transmission interval. The e.i.r.p. of discrete emissions of less
> than 700 Hz bandwidth from such stations between 1605 MHz and 1610 MHz
> manufactured more than six months after Federal Register publication of the
> rule changes adopted in FCC 03-283 shall not exceed −80 dBW, averaged over
> any 2 millisecond active transmission interval.
>
> (f) Mobile earth stations placed in service after July 21, 2002 with
> assigned uplink frequencies in the 1610-1660.5 MHz band shall suppress the
> power density of emissions in the 1605-1610 MHz band to an extent determined
> by linear interpolation from −70 dBW/MHz at 1605 MHz to −10 dBW/MHz at 1610
> MHz.
>
> (g) Mobile earth stations manufactured more than six months after Federal
> Register publication of the rule changes adopted in FCC 03-283 with assigned
> uplink frequencies in the 1610-1626.5 MHz band shall suppress the power
> density of emissions in the 1605-1610 MHz band-segment to an extent
> determined by linear interpolation from −70 dBW/MHz at 1605 MHz to −10
> dBW/MHz at 1610 MHz averaged over any 2 millisecond active transmission
> interval. The e.i.r.p of discrete emissions of less than 700 Hz bandwidth
> from such stations shall not exceed a level determined by linear
> interpolation from −80 dBW at 1605 MHz to −20 dBW at 1610 MHz, averaged over
> any 2 millisecond active transmission interval.
>
> (h) Mobile earth stations manufactured more than six months after Federal
> Register publication of the rule changes adopted in FCC 03-283 with assigned
> uplink frequencies in the 1626.5-1660.5 MHz band shall suppress the power
> density of emissions in the 1605-1610 MHz band-segment to an extent
> determined by linear interpolation from −70 dBW/MHz at 1605 MHz to −46
> dBW/MHz at 1610 MHz, averaged over any 2 millisecond active transmission
> interval. The e.i.r.p of discrete emissions of less than 700 Hz bandwidth
> from such stations shall not exceed a level determined by linear
> interpolation from −80 dBW at 1605 MHz to −56 dBW at 1610 MHz, averaged over
> any 2 millisecond active transmission interval.
>
> (i) The e.i.r.p density of carrier-off state emissions from mobile earth
> stations manufactured more than six months after Federal Register
> publication of the rule changes adopted in FCC 03-283 with assigned uplink
> frequencies between 1 and 3 GHz shall not exceed −80 dBW/MHz in the
> 1559-1610 MHz band averaged over any two millisecond interval.
>
> (j) A Root-Mean-Square detector shall be used for all power density
> measurements.
For L-band NTN satellite operation in the US, additional spectrum emission
requirements in 47 C.F.R § 25.216 (h) need to be specified for L-band NTN
satellite UE. This can be captured as part of additional spurious emission
requirements which allows inclusion of frequency ranges that are less than
F~OOB~ (MHz) from the edge of the channel bandwidth.
## 5.3 Regulatory aspects for HAPS
ITU--R began to study HAPS in the 1990s initially for fixed services. The
telecommunications ecosystem and technology enablers for HAPS have evolved
significantly since then. At WRC-2000, the bands 1885 -- 1980 MHz, 2010 --
2025 MHz and 2110 -- 2170 MHz were identified for HAPS operating as IMT Base
Stations, in accordance with Resolution 221 (Rev.WRC-07) [3]. With increasing
interest in HAPS to offer mobile services, the WRC-19 agreed to study certain
frequency bands which have been already identified for IMT below 2.7 GHz for
HAPS as IMT Base Stations (HIBS). ITU-R Working Party 5D is currently studying
co-existence requirements for HIBS in the additional three bands listed in
Table 5.4-1 to support spectrum identification decisions in WRC-23 in
accordance with Resolution 247 (WRC-19) [3].
NOTE: In the current ITU terminology, the use of HAPS to implement IMT (i.e.
offer mobile wireless services) is referred to as "HAPS as IMT Base Stations"
or HIBS.
> Table 5.4-1: Frequencies for HAPS as IMT Base Stations (HIBS).
+----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | Region | Spectrum | Remarks | +======================+=====================+======================+ | Region 1 and 3 | 1885 -- 1980 MHz | Identified HIBS | | | | designations at | | | 2010 -- 2025 MHz | WRC-2000 | | | | | | | 2110 -- 2170 MHz | | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | Region 2 | 1885 -- 1980 MHz^3^ | | | | | | | | 2110 -- 2160 MHz^4^ | | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | Global | 694 -- 960 MHz | Under study, for | | | | decision at WRC-23 | | | 1710 -- 1885 MHz^1^ | | | | | | | | 2500 -- 2690 MHz^2^ | | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: 1710-1815 | | | | MHz to be used for | | | | uplink only in | | | | Region 3. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: 2500-2535 | | | | MHz to be used for | | | | uplink only in | | | | Region 3, except | | | | 2655-‑2690 MHz in | | | | Region 3). | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: In most of | | | | Region 2 1885-1910 | | | | is used for Mobile | | | | uplink and 1930-1980 | | | | is used for Mobile | | | | downlink. In the | | | | United States, | | | | 1910-1915 and | | | | 1915-1920 are also | | | | used for Mobile | | | | uplink. | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: In Region 2 | | | | 2110-2160 is used | | | | for Mobile downlink. | | | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+
# 6 Co-existence study
## 6.1 Co-existence simulation scenario
Scenarios for coexistence study are listed in Table 6.1-1.
Table 6.1-1: Scenarios for NTN-NTN/TN co-existence
+--------+--------+--------+--------+-----+--------+--------+-----+-----+ | FR1: | NTN^ | | | | | | | | | 2GHz | 1,4,5^ | | | | | | | | +========+========+========+========+=====+========+========+=====+=====+ | | Set 1 | Set | HAPS | | | | | | | | | 2^2^ | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+-----+--------+--------+-----+-----+ | | GEO^3^ | LEO | LEO | GEO | LEO | LEO | | | | | | 600km | 1200km | | 600km | 1200km | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+-----+--------+--------+-----+-----+ | NR / | Rural | X | X | X | X | X | X | X | | NB-IoT | | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+-----+--------+--------+-----+-----+ | | Urban | X | X | X | X | X | X | X | | | macro | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+-----+--------+--------+-----+-----+ | | Dense | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | | Ur | | | | | | | | | | ban^6^ | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+-----+--------+--------+-----+-----+ | HAPS | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | X | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+-----+--------+--------+-----+-----+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | Earth | | | | | | | | | | Fixed | | | | | | | | | | beam | | | | | | | | | | has | | | | | | | | | | been | | | | | | | | | | cons | | | | | | | | | | idered | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | co-exi | | | | | | | | | | stence | | | | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | | | | udies. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: Use | | | | | | | | | | Set 1 | | | | | | | | | | sat | | | | | | | | | | ellite | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | ntenna | | | | | | | | | | has | | | | | | | | | | been | | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | | as the | | | | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | | | | arting | | | | | | | | | | point | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | co-exi | | | | | | | | | | stence | | | | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | | | | udies. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: GEO | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | LEO | | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | | perate | | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | | ad | | | | | | | | | | jacent | | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | | annel. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 4: Use | | | | | | | | | | GEO | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | LEO\ | | | | | | | | | | @600km | | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | | TN is | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | ictim. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 5: The | | | | | | | | | | sate | | | | | | | | | | llite- | | | | | | | | | | to-sat | | | | | | | | | | ellite | | | | | | | | | | coexi | | | | | | | | | | stence | | | | | | | | | | sce | | | | | | | | | | narios | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | not in | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | scope | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | | study | | | | | | | | | | consi | | | | | | | | | | dering | | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | lready | | | | | | | | | | add | | | | | | | | | | ressed | | | | | | | | | | by ITU | | | | | | | | | | (ITU | | | | | | | | | | RR | | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | | rticle | | | | | | | | | | 9 | | | | | | | | | | etc.) | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | gional | | | | | | | | | | regul | | | | | | | | | | ations | | | | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | | | | FCC | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | ules). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 6: | | | | | | | | | | Dense | | | | | | | | | | Urban | | | | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | | | | cons | | | | | | | | | | idered | | | | | | | | | | as it | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | ex | | | | | | | | | | pected | | | | | | | | | | NTN UE | | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | onnect | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | terre | | | | | | | | | | strial | | | | | | | | | | ne | | | | | | | | | | tworks | | | | | | | | | | rather | | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | | sat | | | | | | | | | | ellite | | | | | | | | | | ne | | | | | | | | | | tworks | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | such | | | | | | | | | | sce | | | | | | | | | | nario. | | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+-----+--------+--------+-----+-----+
The aggressor and victim combinations are listed in Table 6.1-2.
Table 6.1-2: Aggressor and victim
No. Combination Aggressor Victim Notes Study Phase
* * *
1 TN with NTN TN DL NTN DL Applicable for satellite operating in e.g. S-band,
for e.g. coexistence with n1 FDD. Phase 1 2 TN with NTN TN UL NTN UL
Applicable for satellite operating in e.g. S-band, for e.g. coexistence with
n1 FDD. Phase 1 3 TN with NTN NTN DL TN DL Applicable for satellite operating
in e.g. S-band, for e.g. coexistence with n1 FDD. Phase 1 4 TN with NTN NTN UL
TN UL Applicable for satellite operating in e.g. S-band, for e.g. coexistence
with n1 FDD. Phase 1 5 TN with NTN NTN UL TN DL Applicable for satellite
operating in S-band, for e.g. coexistence with n34 TDD. Phase 1 6 TN with NTN
TN DL NTN UL Applicable for satellite operating in S-band, for e.g.
coexistence with n34 TDD. Phase 1 7 NTN with NTN NTN DL NTN DL HAPS-HAPS Phase
2 NTN UL NTN UL HAPS-HAPS Phase 2
For further visualisation, the interference charts with respect to scenarios 1
to 6 are further represented with respect to NTN-TN coexistence scenarios in
Figure 6.1-1 (scenarios 1 to 4) and Figure 6.1-2 (scenarios 5 and 6).
{width="4.020462598425197in" height="2.1069444444444443in"}
Figure 6.1-1: S-band NTN-TN adjacent band coexistence scenarios with TN in FDD
mode
{width="4.1875in" height="1.8923611111111112in"}
Figure 6.1-2: S-band NTN-TN adjacent band coexistence scenarios with TN in TDD
mode (e.g. n34)
The frequency and bandwidth are listed in Table 6.1-3.
Table 6.1-3: Proposed frequency and bandwidth for co-existence study
                                                                               **Frequency**   **Bandwidth**            **Duplex mode**   **Frequency reuse factor**
* * *
TN Rural 2 GHz 20MHz FDD, TDD 1 TN Urban macro 2 GHz 20MHz FDD, TDD 1 GEO 2
GHz 5/10/15/20 MHz for FR1 FDD 1, 3^1^ LEO 2 GHz 5/10/15/20 MHz for FR1 FDD 1,
3^1^ HAPS 2 GHz TBD FDD 1 NOTE: Only FRF=1 has been used in co-existence
studies for simplification.
## 6.2 Co-existence simulation assumption
### 6.2.1 Network layout model
#### 6.2.1.1 Co-existence between NTN satellite and TN
Cellular cell structure is considered for both NTN satellite and TN network
layout.
Referring to TR 38.811[5] Section 6.3 and Annex A, a 3D global coordinate
system is considered (Earth-Centred Earth Fixed) for simulating NTN satellite
beams direction and location on the earth surface. It means the NTN satellite
beam location, TN randomly dropping location are generated with a set of three
parameters (x,y,z).
Deployment of NTN satellite and TN cells and UEs for co-existence study is
listed in Table 6.2.1.1-1.
NOTE: The NTN UE(s) shall be dropped at the edge of the "central 19 TN cells
(cluster)". For Case 1 (Urban scenario), an Isolation distance of 1500m as
2*ISD is considered to reflect the NTN-TN selection algorithm at the border,
assuming TN connection will always be prioritized over NTN.
As defined in Figure 6.2.1.1-1, isolation distance is the distance between the
blue-dotted line which represents TN cell boarder and the red line. No UEs
deployed in the isolation region is assumed to reduce the calculation
complexity.
{width="4.730555555555555in" height="3.904166666666667in"}
Figure 6.2.1.1-1: Isolation distance for Case 1
Table 6.2.1.1-1: Network and UE deployment
+-----+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+----------+ | No. | Com | A | Victim | Which | Which | Which TN | | | bination | ggressor | | NTN | TN/UE to | cells in | | | | | | cell/UE | observe? | a TN to | | | | | | to | | observe? | | | | | | observe? | | | +=====+==========+==========+========+==========+==========+==========+ | 1 | TN with | TN DL | NTN DL | NTN | One | All | | | NTN | | | cell: | cluster | active | | | s | | | | with 19 | TN | | | atellite | | | Observe | TN cells | clusters | | | | | | NTN | (57 | which | | | | | | central | sectors) | has the | | | | | | beam for | randomly | NTN | | | | | | SINR, 6 | placed | UE(s) at | | | | | | adjacent | in the | its | | | | | | beams | central | edge. | | | | | | for | NTN beam | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | ter-beam | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | ference. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NTN UE: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NTN UEs | | | | | | | | dropped | | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | | edge of | | | | | | | | TN | | | | | | | | clusters | | | +-----+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+----------+ | 2 | TN with | TN UL | NTN UL | NTN | Consider | All | | | NTN | | | cell: | an | active | | | s | | | | active | TN cells | | | atellite | | | Observe | rate of | in | | | | | | NTN | 20% for | central | | | | | | central | Rural | NTN beam | | | | | | beam for | and | | | | | | | SINR, 6 | Urban of | | | | | | | adjacent | TN. | | | | | | | beams | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | ter-beam | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | ference. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NTN UE: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NTN UEs | | | | | | | | dropped | | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | | edge of | | | | | | | | TN | | | | | | | | clusters | | | +-----+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+----------+ | 3 | TN with | NTN DL | TN DL | NTN | TN | All in | | | NTN | | | cell: | clusters | central | | | s | | | | randomly | NTN beam | | | atellite | | | Nadir | placed | | | | | | | point. | in this | | | | | | | | NTN beam | | | | | | | NTN UE: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NTN UEs | | | | | | | | dropped | | | | | | | | outside | | | | | | | | or at | | | | | | | | the edge | | | | | | | | of TN | | | | | | | | clusters | | | +-----+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | | NTN | TN | | | | | | | cell: | clusters | | | | | | | | randomly | | | | | | | NTN cell | placed | | | | | | | with | in this | | | | | | | s | NTN beam | | | | | | | atellite | | | | | | | | at low | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | levation | | | | | | | | (45° for | | | | | | | | GEO and | | | | | | | | LEO，In | | | | | | | | terested | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | ompanies | | | | | | | | can | | | | | | | | bring | | | | | | | | analysis | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | results | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | | values) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NTN UE: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NTN UEs | | | | | | | | dropped | | | | | | | | outside | | | | | | | | or at | | | | | | | | the edge | | | | | | | | of TN | | | | | | | | clusters | | | +-----+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+----------+ | 4 | TN with | NTN UL | TN UL | NTN | TN | Option | | | NTN | | | cell: | randomly | 1: All | | | s | | | | placed | active | | | atellite | | | Nadir | in this | TN | | | | | | point. | NTN beam | clusters | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | NTN UE: | | has the | | | | | | | | NTN | | | | | | NTN UEs | | UE(s) at | | | | | | dropped | | its | | | | | | at the | | edge. | | | | | | edge of | | | | | | | | TN | | Option | | | | | | clusters | | 2: Only | | | | | | | | the TN | | | | | | | | sectors | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | have NTN | | | | | | | | UE(s) at | | | | | | | | their | | | | | | | | edges. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Option 1 | | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | | | baseline | | | | | | | | and it | | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | recluded | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | ompanies | | | | | | | | can | | | | | | | | follow | | | | | | | | Option 2 | | | | | | | | to bring | | | | | | | | results | +-----+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+----------+ | 5 | TN with | NTN UL | TN DL | NTN | TN | All | | | NTN | | | cell: | clusters | active | | | s | | | | randomly | TN | | | atellite | | | Nadir | placed | clusters | | | | | | point | in this | which | | | | | | | NTN beam | has the | | | | | | NTN UE: | | NTN | | | | | | | | UE(s) at | | | | | | NTN UEs | | its edge | | | | | | dropped | | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | | edge of | | | | | | | | TN | | | | | | | | clusters | | | +-----+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | | NTN | TN | All | | | | | | cell: | clusters | active | | | | | | | randomly | TN | | | | | | NTN cell | placed | clusters | | | | | | with | in this | which | | | | | | s | NTN beam | has the | | | | | | atellite | | NTN | | | | | | at low | | UE(s) at | | | | | | e | | its | | | | | | levation | | edge. | | | | | | (45° for | | | | | | | | GEO and | | | | | | | | LEO，In | | | | | | | | terested | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | ompanies | | | | | | | | can | | | | | | | | bring | | | | | | | | analysis | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | results | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | | values). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NTN UE: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NTN UEs | | | | | | | | dropped | | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | | edge of | | | | | | | | TN | | | | | | | | clusters | | | +-----+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+----------+ | 6 | TN with | TN DL | NTN UL | NTN | Consider | All | | | NTN | | | cell: | the | active | | | s | | | | active | TN cells | | | atellite | | | Observe | rate of | in | | | | | | NTN | 20% for | central | | | | | | central | Rural | NTN beam | | | | | | beam for | and | | | | | | | SINR, 6 | Urban of | | | | | | | adjacent | TN. | | | | | | | beams | | | | | | | | for | The | | | | | | | in | Urban TN | | | | | | | ter-beam | de | | | | | | | inter | ployment | | | | | | | ference. | for GEO | | | | | | | | in Case | | | | | | | NTN cell | 6 is a | | | | | | | with | mixture | | | | | | | s | of urban | | | | | | | atellite | and | | | | | | | at low | rural TN | | | | | | | e | dep | | | | | | | levation | loyment. | | | | | | | to be | A | | | | | | | further | repres | | | | | | | inves | entative | | | | | | | tigated. | pe | | | | | | | | rcentage | | | | | | | NTN UE: | of urban | | | | | | | | TN could | | | | | | | NTN UEs | be | | | | | | | dropped | co | | | | | | | outside | nsidered | | | | | | | or at | for | | | | | | | the edge | further | | | | | | | of TN | study. | | | | | | | clusters | | | +-----+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+----------+
#### 6.2.1.2 Co-existence between HAPS and TN
For simulations of HAPS and TN co-existence, a cluster of TN cells is randomly
dropped in the HAPS coverage area as shown in Figure 6.2.1.2-1. The TN cell
cluster consists of 19 sites, 57 sectors, with the same assumption described
in clause 6.2.2.4. HAPS coverage and cell layout are described in clause
6.2.2.3.
{width="4.908333333333333in" height="2.8666666666666667in"}
Figure 6.2.1.2-1: Simulation layout between HAPS and TN
#### 6.2.1.3 Co-existence between HAPS and HAPS
HAPS and HAPS co-existence can be characterized by "center-to-center" inter-
system distance (i.e., the distance between two coverage centers) as depicted
in Figure 6.2.1.3-1. Since HAPS location is at the center of its coverage
area, the inter-system distance is the separation of the two HAPS. Different
inter-system distances may be simulated to evaluate the interference caused by
antenna gain variation in the elevation domain.
{width="3.783333333333333in" height="2.8583333333333334in"}
Figure 6.2.1.3-1: Simulation layout between HAPS and HAPS
### 6.2.2 System parameters
#### 6.2.2.1 Satellite parameters
Two sets of satellite parameters are listed in Table 6.2.2.1-2 and Table
6.2.2.1-3 according to TR 38.821[6].
The satellite max Tx power can be calculated by the equation as below:
$$\max{\text{Tx}\ \text{power}\left\lbrack \text{dBm} \right\rbrack
=}\text{EIRP}\ \text{density}\left\lbrack \frac{\text{dBW}}{\text{MHz}}
\right\rbrack + 30 + 10\ \log_{10}\left( N_{\text{RB}}_\text{SCS}\left\lbrack
\text{MHz} \right\rbrack_ 12 \right) - \text{Max}\ \text{Gain}\left\lbrack
\text{dBi} \right\rbrack$$
**Table 6.2.2.1-1** : **N~RB~** configuration per BandWidth size and SCS
Configuration FR1 S-band N~RB~ (5MHz BW) N~RB~ (10MHz BW) N~RB~ (15MHz BW)
N~RB~ (20MHz BW)
* * *
SCS 15 kHz 25 52 79 106 SCS 30 kHz 11 24 38 51
Table 6.2.2.1-2: Set-1 satellite parameters for co-existence study
Satellite orbit GEO LEO-1200 LEO-600
* * *
Satellite altitude 35786 km 1200 km 600 km  
Payload characteristics for DL transmissions  
Satellite EIRP density 2GHz 59 dBW/MHz 40 dBW/MHz 34 dBW/MHz  
Satellite max TX power in dBm BW (MHz) 5 10 15 20 5 10 15 20 5 10 15 20 SCS
15kHz 44.53 47.71 49.53 50.81 46.53 49.71 51.53 52.81 40.53 43.71 45.53 46.81
SCS 30kHz 43.98 47.37 49.36 50.64 45.98 49.37 51.36 52.64 39.98 43.37 45.36
46.64 Satellite Tx max Gain 51 dBi 30 dBi 30 dBi  
Channel bandwidth 5/10/15/20MHz 5/10/15/20MHz 5/10/15/20MHz  
3dB beamwidth or HPBW (Half-Power BandWidth) of main central beam 0.4011 deg
4.4127 deg 4.4127 deg  
ABS (Adjacent Beam Spacing) of adjacent beams from the central beam 0.3474 deg
3.8206 deg 3.8206 deg  
Satellite beam diameter 250 km 90 km 50 km  
Payload characteristics for UL transmissions  
G/T 2 GHz 19 dB K^-1^ 1.1 dB K^-1^ 1.1 dB K^-1^  
Satellite Rx max Gain 51 dBi 30 dBi 30 dBi
Table 6.2.2.1-3: Set-2 satellite parameters for co-existence study
Satellite orbit GEO LEO-1200 LEO-600
* * *
Satellite altitude 35786 km 1200 km 600 km  
Payload characteristics for DL transmissions  
Satellite EIRP density 2GHz 53.5 dBW/MHz 34 dBW/MHz 28 dBW/MHz Satellite Tx
max Gain 45.5 dBi 24 dBi 24 Channel bandwidth 5/10/15/20MHz 5/10/15/20MHz
5/10/15/20MHz 3dB beamwidth 0.7353 deg 8.8320 deg 8.8320 deg Satellite beam
diameter 450 km 190 km 90 km Payload characteristics for UL transmissions  
G/T 2 GHz 14 dB K^-1^ -4.9 dB K^-1^ -4.9 dB K^-1^ Satellite Rx max Gain 45.5
dBi 24 dBi 24 dBi
Table 6.2.2.1-4: Other parameters for NTN satellite
+--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Parameters | NTN satellite | Remark | +==========================+==========================+==============+ | Carrier frequency | 2GHz | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | The number of active UE | 9 UEs and 2RBs per UE | NOTE | | (UL) | for GEO and LEO^1^ | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | The number of active UE | 1 | Same with TN | | (DL) | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traffic model | Full buffer | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | DL power control | NO | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | UL power control | See Session 6.2.6.2 | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | NTN satellite Noise | See Table 2.3-3-1 | | | Figure in dB | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Handover margin | 3dB | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | NOTE: UEs are equally | | | | splitted inside the | | | | channel bandwidth into | | | | ACIR 3 regions. | | | | Scheduled PRB position | | | | for UE1 per satellite | | | | beam should be also | | | | fully aligned to | | | | simulate the worst case | | | | for co-channel | | | | interference and this is | | | | also aligned with full | | | | buffer case. | | | | | | | | ![http://kr5. | | | | samsung.net/mail/rest/v1 | | | | /files/image/download/20 | | | | 2108260042453_CZHWKC3T. | | | | png?1=1&filepath=/LOCAL/ | | | | ML/CACHE/image/y/2021082 | | | | 5/110_31_JZ9R2KEKVGKD\ | | | | @namo.co.kr_4_yiran.ji | | | | n&user=yiran.jin&partno= | | | | 4&folderId=110&seqid=31& | | | | contentType=image%2Fpng] | | | | (media/image10.png){widt | | | | h="3.2090277777777776in" | | | | height | | | | ="2.5791666666666666in"} | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
Table 6.2.2.1-5: NTN satellite Noise Figure in dB
Satellite GEO LEO 600 LEO 1200
* * *
G/T (dB K^-1^) 19 1.1 1.1 G_Rx (dBi) 51 30 30 NF (dB) **7.4** **4.3** **4.3**
#### 6.2.2.2 NTN UE parameters
NTN UE parameters are given in Table 6.2.2.2-1
Table 6.2.2.2-1: NTN UE characteristics for system level simulations
Characteristics Handheld
* * *
Frequency band S band (i.e. 2 GHz) Antenna type and configuration (1, 1, 2)
with omni-directional antenna element Polarisation Linear: +/-45°X-pol Rx
Antenna gain 0 dBi per element Antenna temperature 290 K Noise figure 9 dB Tx
transmit power 200 mW (23 dBm) Tx antenna gain 0 dBi per element
#### 6.2.2.3 HAPS parameters
Using the antenna model in Section 6.2.3.3, HAPS deployed at 20 km altitude
has a coverage radius of 100 km in a 7-cell layout. Two implementations of the
layout are shown in Figure 6.2.2.3-1. The UEs in the HAPS system are assumed
to be outdoor and uniformly distributed in the coverage area in the rural
environment. The serving cell is selected by the strongest RSRP or least
coupling loss. (Note: Calibration data show these two implementations yield
similar results). HAPS system parameters for the co-existence study are listed
in Table 6.2.2.3-1.
For DL transmission, one UE is scheduled for the full bandwidth. For UL
transmission, 9 UEs are scheduled, each using a bandwidth of 6 RBs. The
scheduled UEs are evenly distributed in the frequency domain as shown in
Figure 6.2.2.3-2. Note that the scheduled resources are aligned among
different cells to model co-channel effect. Since the UE uses only part of the
channel bandwidth in UL, the ACI impact may differ in the frequency domain of
the adjacent channel. The ACIR model described in Section 6.2.4 should be used
to model the ACI from aggressor UEs in UL, taking into account the UE's
transmission bandwidth.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="1.921259842519685in" | ng){width="1.9763779527559056in" | | height="1.8700787401574803in"} | height="1.968503937007874in"} | | | | | (a) | (b) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Figure 6.2.2.3-1: HAPS cell layout
Table 6.2.2.3-1: HAPS system parameters
HAPS altitude 20 Km
* * *
Carrier frequency 2 GHz Frequency reuse factor 1 Duplex scheme FDD Channel
bandwidth 20 MHz Subcarrier spacing (SCS) 15 KHz Number of cells 7 Coverage
area (7 cells combined) A 100 Km radius circular area centered by the serving
HAPS Frequency reuse 1 Environment^1^ Rural UE distribution Uniformly
distributed in the coverage area Indoor UE percentage 0% Number of DL
scheduled UEs per cell 1 Number of UL scheduled UEs per cell 9 DL scheduled
bandwidth per UE 20 MHz UL scheduled bandwidth per UE 6 RBs DL power control
No UL power control See section 6.2.6.3 HAPS antenna See section 6.2.3.3 HAPS
noise figure 5 dB HAPS-UE pathloss model See section 6.2.5.4 HAPS UE
assumption Same as TN UE in Table 6.2.2.4-1 NOTE 1: HAPS is assumed to serve
UEs in the rural environment, but the co-existed TN may be in the rural or
urban macro environment.
{width="5.188976377952756in" height="2.6653543307086616in"}
Figure 6.2.2.3-2: UL scheduled UE bandwidth allocation
#### 6.2.2.4 TN parameters
TN parameters for co-existence study are given in Table 6.2.2.4-1, 6.2.2.4-2
and 6.2.2.4-3.
Table 6.2.2.4-1: Simulation assumptions of TN respectively based on NB-IoT and
NR
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | NB-IoT | NR | | | | | | | standalone | | +======================+======================+======================+ | Carrier frequency in | 2 | 2 | | GHz | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Size of each nominal | 0.2 | 20 | | channel BW in MHz | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Transmission | 0.18 | N/A | | bandwidth in MHz | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Environment | Urban macro | Deployment scenario | | | | related, see Table | | | Rural | 6.2.2.4-2. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network layout | 19-sites [57 | 19-sites 57 sectors | | | sectors] with | with wrap-around | | | wrap-around | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Inter-site distance | 500 for 2GHz band | Deployment scenario | | in meter | for UMA | related, see Table | | | | 6.2.2.4-2 | | | TBD For Rural | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | System loading and | Full buffer 100% | See Table 6.2.1.1-1 | | activity | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network location | TBD | See Table 6.2.1.1-1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DL subcarrier | 15kHz | 15kHz | | spacing | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UL | See RP-152284[7] | OFDMA | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DL power control | No | No | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UL power control | TR 36.942[8] | TR 36.942[8] | | | section 5.1.1.6 (set | | | | 1) by bandwidth | | | | scale, target SNR at | | | | BS is 15 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Frequency reuse | 1 | 1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of scheduled | 1 | 1 | | UE per cell (DL) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of scheduled | 3 for multi-tone | 3 | | UE per cell (UL) | (60kHz per UE), | | | | | | | | 12 for 15kHz | | | | single-tone, | | | | | | | | 48 for 3.75kHz | | | | single-tone | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE antenna height in | 1.5 | 1.5m | | meter | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE TX power in dBm | -40 to 23 | -40 to 23 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE antenna gain in | 0 | 0 | | dBi | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Building penetration | TR 45.820[9] Annex | In pathloss model, | | loss | D.1 | TR 38.901[10] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell selection | 3 | 3 | | margin in dB | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS-MS min distance | 35 | 35 | | in meters | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS noise figure in | 5 | 5 | | dB | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE noise figure in | 9 | 9 | | dB | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS-UE path-loss | TR 36.942[8] macro | TR 38.901[10] | | model | urban | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Standard deviation | 10 | Deployment scenario | | of BS-UE log-normal | | related, referring | | shadow fading in dB | | to TR 38.901[10] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Shadowing | Inter-cell 0.5 | Inter-cell 0.5 | | correlation | | | | | Intra-cell 1 | Intra-cell 1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Link-level | | See Section 6.2.8 | | performance model | | | | | | Throughtput-SINR | | | | mapping | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE distribution | | Uniform | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Evaluation metrics | SINR vs ACS (as | See Section 6.2.8 | | | victim) | | | | | Throughtput or SNR | | | | loss criteria | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 6.2.2.4-2: Deployment-related parameters of TN (2 GHz)
+------------------+--------------+-------------+------------------+ | | Urban Macro | Rural Macro | Remarks | +==================+==============+=============+==================+ | ISD in meters | 750 | 7500 | ITU-R Report | | | | | M.2292[11] | +------------------+--------------+-------------+------------------+ | BS Antenna | 25 | 30 | | | height in meters | | | | +------------------+--------------+-------------+------------------+ | UE | 100% Outdoor | | | | Outdoor/indoor | | | | +------------------+--------------+-------------+------------------+ | UE height in | 1.5 | 1.5 | RP-200559 [12] | | meter | | | 3GPP LS to ITU-R | | | | | WP5D | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | ITU-R WP5D | | | | | | | | | | [I | | | | | MT_Parameters] | | | | | [13] | +------------------+--------------+-------------+------------------+
Table 6.2.2.4-3: ACLR/ACS for TN (2GHz)
+----+------+--------------+-------+ | | NR | NB-IOT | | +====+======+==============+=======+ | BS | ACLR | 45 dB | 40 dB | +----+------+--------------+-------+ | | ACS | 46 dB | 46 dB | +----+------+--------------+-------+ | UE | ACLR | 30dB (ACLR1) | 37 | | | | | | | | | 43dB (ACLR2) | | +----+------+--------------+-------+ | | ACS | 33 | 28 | +----+------+--------------+-------+
### 6.2.3 Antenna and beamforming pattern modelling
#### 6.2.3.1 Satellite and UE Antenna and beam forming pattern modelling
Satellite and UE Antenna and beam forming pattern modelling of satellite could
be referred to section 6.4.1 in TR 38.811[5].
The following normalized antenna gain pattern, corresponding to a typical
reflector antenna with a circular aperture, is considered.
1 $for\ \theta = 0$
${4\left| \frac{J_{1}\left( \text{ka}\sin\theta \right)}{\text{ka}\sin\theta}
\right|}^{2}$ $for\ 0  For TN-NTN SINR calculation, the satellite receiver off angle should be
> considered in the satellite receiver gain calculation when calculating SINR.
> Note that such angle is not considered in TR 38.821[6] section 6.1.3
> equations. Thus those equations should be used for SINR calculation.
\- Step 5: Throughput is computed considering ACI as below:
$\text{Thput}_{\text{ACI}}\left\lbrack \text{bpshz} \right\rbrack = f\left(
\text{SINR}_{ICI + ACI} \right) = f\left( \frac{S}{N + I_{\text{ICI}} +
I_{\text{ACI}}} \right)$,
where: $I_{\text{ACI}}$ is the adjacent channel interference.
\- Step 6: RF parameters are determined based on the degradation cause by ACI
as below:
$$\text{Los}s_{\text{ACI}} = 1 -
\frac{\text{Thput}_{\text{ACI}}}{\text{Thput}_{\text{SINGLE}}}$$
To simplify the simulation of interference from TN to NTN UL in Case 2 and 6,
following method can be used. Consider the active TN cells from central NTN
beam for the ACI evaluation from TN to NTN UL. The scaling factor is to be
discussed and determined if any in next meeting. There is a view that
simplifying such coexistence simulation work for Case 2 may even not be
required.
\- Step **1** : to drop NTN UE per beamprint randomly;
**\- Step 2** : to drop N clusters consisting of 57 sectors per beamprint
randomly:
**\- Step 3** : to calculate the total ACI **per beam** to NTN UL by following
scaling factor:
where: active_TN = **active_factor** *round (the area per beam/the area of 57
sectors)
> active_factor = 20% (or lower, particularly for urban scenarios)
**\- Step 4** : to calculate the total ACI from all beams (e.g. M=7 ) for NTN:
### 6.3.2 Methods and principle to process co-existence simulation results
In order to process the co-existence simulation results received for all
different scenarios and assumptions, the following steps are adopted:
\- Step 1: Discuss and agree on the most stringent scenario(s) for each
scenario (Scenario 1, 2, 3...,6);
\- Step 2: Discuss and determine the required ACIR from results of the most
stringent case(s) for each scenario;
\- Step 3: Use equation to derive corresponding ACLR or ACS from the agreed
ACIR for each scenario
It is noted that the averaged ACIR for the most stringent case in each
scenario would be derived by taking the average among the interpolated ACIR
results derived from each company's results for that case.
Moreover, the following considerations are adopted to deal with major disputes
for the selected cases' results in each scenario:
\- If the required ACIR results, from the contributor who did not participate
or their results is still not well-aligned in calibration table, has a
difference larger than 10 dB with most others, this result can be not
considered in the discussion.
\- If the required ACIR results, from one contributor, has a difference larger
than 10 dB with most others, this result can be not considered in the
discussion.
The processed results by adopting above principles and methods for scenarios 1
to 7 identified in Table 6.1-2 are captured in section 6.4. It is noted that
due to the space limitation, only part of the simulation results for each case
are presented, and the whole results for all studied options, as listed in
Table 6.1-1 and section 6.2, can be found in Annex C.
Table 6.3.2-1: Selected option for each scenario
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Scenario | Aggressor | Victim | Environment | C | | | system | system | | ontributing | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | 1 | TN DL | NTN GEO DL | Urban | NTN UE ACS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | TN UL | NTN GEO UL | Urban | NTN SAN ACS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | NTN LEO-600 | TN DL | Rural | NTN SAN LEO | | | DL | | | ACLR | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | NTN GEO DL | TN DL | Rural | NTN SAN GEO | | | | | | ACLR | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | NTN GEO UL | TN UL | Urban | NTN UE ACLR | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | NTN GEO UL | TN DL | Rural | NTN UE ACLR | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 6^1^ | NR-TN DL | NTN LEO-600 | Rural ^2^ | NTN SAN ACS | | | | UL | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | NR-TN DL | NTN GEO UL | Rural ^2^ | NTN SAN ACS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 7 | HAPS DL | TN DL | Rural | HAPS ACLR | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 8 | TN UL | HAPS UL | Rural | HAPS ACS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | Agreed | | | | | | rep | | | | | | resentative | | | | | | case for | | | | | | Scenario 6. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2： | | | | | | The initial | | | | | | results | | | | | | suggested | | | | | | that the | | | | | | NR-NTN SAN | | | | | | would | | | | | | suffer more | | | | | | i | | | | | | nterference | | | | | | in urban | | | | | | deployment | | | | | | scenario. | | | | | | It is | | | | | | agreed that | | | | | | a more | | | | | | relevant | | | | | | environment | | | | | | for case 6 | | | | | | is a | | | | | | mixture of | | | | | | Urban and | | | | | | Rural | | | | | | environment | | | | | | (e.g., | | | | | | urban area | | | | | | with a 50km | | | | | | diameter | | | | | | inside a | | | | | | GEO beam | | | | | | with a | | | | | | 250km | | | | | | diameter). | | | | | | Further | | | | | | studies | | | | | | based on | | | | | | the mixed | | | | | | urban | | | | | | environment | | | | | | could be | | | | | | considered. | | | | | | As | | | | | | compromise, | | | | | | rural only | | | | | | scenario | | | | | | was then | | | | | | selected. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 6.4 Co-existence simulation results
### 6.4.1 Scenario 1: 2GHz TN DL interfering NTN DL
The co-existence results from all concerned options in this scenario were
evaluated, and it has been agreed to select the NR DL equipped with both AAS
and non-AAS antenna interfering the NR-NTN GEO DL that deployed in urban
environment as the most stringent case.
Table 6.4.1-1: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with AAS
antenna
* * *
ACIR[dB] 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 Qualcomm 32.76 26.13 19.50 15.41 11.32
8.26 6.21 4.16 3.22 2.27 MTK 7.28 5.71 4.60 3.77 3.05 2.35 1.90 1.30 1.02 0.80
ZTE 31.76 24.81 18.95 14.18 10.47 7.63 5.50 3.92 2.79 1.99 Ericsson 4.2 3.0
2.1 1.5 1.1  
CATT 8.7 6.5 5.3 4.3  
Xiaomi 38.11 31.51 25.56 20.35 15.94 12.29 9.36 7.06 5.29 3.95
* * *
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.1-1: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with
AAS antenna
Table 6.4.1-2: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss - TN BS with AAS
antenna
* * *
ACIR[dB] 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 Qualcomm 44.68 27.01 19.33 11.66 9.31
6.96 5.20 4.03  
MTK 7.38 4.80 3.09 1.97 1.26 0.80 0.50 0.32 0.20 0.13 ZTE 33.63 24.27 17.09
12.37 9.01 6.43 4.81 3.30 2.42 1.70 Ericsson 3.0 2.8 1.8  
CATT 13.4 12.7 11.8 9.33 8.76 8.18 7.65 5.83 4.91  
Xiaomi 65.22 54.94 44.26 33.58 24.20 16.78 11.29 7.43 4.51
* * *
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.1-2: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss - TN BS with
AAS antenna
Table 6.4.1-3: Interpolated ACIR values for Scenario 1 to meet the 5%
throughput loss criteria - TN BS with AAS antenna
Source Interpolated ACIR[dB]
* * *
Qualcomm Average 19.18 5%-tile **26.34** MTK Average 9.28 5%-tile 15.85^1^ ZTE
Average 18.63 5%-tile **25.77** Ericsson Average  
5%-tile 12.10^1^ CATT Average 10.6 5%-tile **29.80** Xiaomi Average 22.43
5%-tile **29.40** NOTE 1: According to the principles, these values are not
treated for later process.
Table 6.4.1-4: Average ACIR of 5%-tile values in the above worse case for
Scenario 1 - TN BS with AAS antenna
                      Scenario 1
* * *
ACIR value [dB] 27.83
Table 6.4.1-5: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
* * *
ACIR[dB] 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 MTK 25,91 20,30 16,17 12,92 9,97 8,19
6,76 5,54 4,32 3,34 ZTE 35,27 27,40 20,83 15,57 11,46 8,34 6,04 4,32 3,06 2,14
THALES NA NA NA 13,13 9,54 6,85 4,86 3,4 2,3 1,58
* * *
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.1-3: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
Table 6.4.1-6: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
* * *
ACIR[dB] 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 MTK 69,59 59,31 48,18 37,24 26,31 18,42
12,49 8,27 5,39 3,47 ZTE 37,88 27,97 20,08 14,18 9,80 6,65 4,46 2,78 1,82 1,24
THALES 16,36 14,55 8,64 7,27 6,36 5,91 5,45 5,45 4,55 1,82
* * *
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.1-4: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
Table 6.4.1-7: Interpolated ACIR values for Scenario 1 to meet the 5%
throughput loss criteria - TN BS with non-AAS antenna
Source Interpolated ACIR[dB]
* * *
MTK Average 20.89 5%-tile **30.41** ZTE Average 19.21 5%-tile **25.51** Thales
Average 17.86 5%-tile **29.00**
Table 6.4.1-8: Average ACIR of 5%-tile values in the above worse case for
Scenario 1 - TN BS with non-AAS antenna
                      Scenario 1
* * *
ACIR value [dB] 28.31
### 6.4.2 Scenario 2: 2GHz TN UL interfering NTN UL
The co-existence results from all concerned options in this scenario were
evaluated, and it has been agreed to select the NR UL interfering the NR-NTN
GEO UL that deployed in urban environment as the most stringent case.
Table 6.4.2-1: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with AAS
antenna
* * *
ACIR[dB] 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34 36 Qualcomm 36.46 24.81 18.43 12.06 7.70
5.34 2.98  
ZTE 16.46 11.77 8.26 5.51 3.55 2.25 1.48 0.98 0.63 0.39 MTK 38.61 31.96 25.57
20.13 15.27 11.22 7.96 5.48 3.68 2.42 Ericsson 15.6 10.4 7.2 4.2 2.9 1.9  
CATT NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Xiaomi 41.11 30.58 21.75 14.92 9.96 6.53
4.22 2.70 1.72 1.09
* * *
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.2-1: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with
AAS antenna
Table 6.4.2-2: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss - TN BS with AAS
antenna
* * *
ACIR[dB] 22 24 26 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 Qualcomm NA NA NA NA NA  
ZTE NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA MTK 68.80 58.62 47.26 36.43 26.97 19.13
13.06 8.68 5.67 3.67 Ericsson NA NA NA NA NA  
CATT NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Xiaomi NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
* * *
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.2-2: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss - TN BS with
AAS antenna
Table 6.4.2-3: Interpolated ACIR values for Scenario 2 to meet the 5%
throughput loss criteria - TN BS with AAS antenna
Source Interpolated ACIR[dB]
* * *
Qualcomm Average **28.29** 5%-tile  
ZTE Average **24.52** 5%-tile  
MTK Average **32.53** 5%-tile **38.67^1^** Ericsson Average **25.47** 5%-tile  
CATT Average  
5%-tile  
Xiaomi Average **29.32** 5%-tile  
NOTE 1: According to the principles, this value is not treated for later
process.
Table 6.4.2-4: Average ACIR values in the above worse case for Scenario 2 - TN
BS with AAS antenna
                      Scenario 2
* * *
ACIR value [dB] 28.03
Table 6.4.2-5: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
* * *
ACIR[dB] 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34 36 Ericsson NA NA NA NA NA 10,4 6,8 4,2
2,9 NA THALES 14,06 10,74 7,74 5,53 3,63 2,37 1,74 1,11 0,79 0,47 MTK 35,49
29,12 23,27 18,21 13,81 9,87 6,92 4,67 3,11 2,04
* * *
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.2-3: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
Table 6.4.2-6: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
* * *
ACIR[dB] 22 24 26 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 **Ericsson** NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
NA **THALES** 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 **MTK** 57,18 45,86 34,92 25,60 18,05 12,29
8,15 5,31 3,42 2,19
* * *
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.2-4: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
Table 6.4.2-7: Interpolated ACIR values for Scenario 2 to meet the 5%
throughput loss criteria - TN BS with non-AAS antenna
Source Interpolated ACIR[dB]
* * *
Ericsson Average **31.38** 5%-tile **NA** Thales Average **24.56** 5%-tile
**NA** MTK Average **31.71** 5%-tile **36.33**
Table 6.4.2-8: Average ACIR values in the above worse case for Scenario 2 TN
BS with non-AAS antenna
                      Scenario 2
* * *
ACIR value [dB] 29.22
### 6.4.3 Scenario 3: 2GHz NTN DL interfering TN DL
#### 6.4.3.1 LEO Class
The co-existence results from all concerned options in this scenario were
evaluated, and it has been agreed to select the NR-NTN LEO-600 DL interfering
the NR DL equipped with AAS antenna that deployed in rural environment as the
most stringent case for LEO class.
Table 6.4.3.1-1: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with
AAS antenna
* * *
ACIR[dB] 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 Qualcomm 21.02 16.68 12.34 8.94 6.48
4.03 2.98 1.93 1.21 0.84 Samsung 20.06 15.28 11.24 8.00 5.52 3.72 2.45 1.60
1.03 0.66 MTK 25.22 19.06 13.86 9.70 6.66 4.41 2.92 1.90 1.22 0.77 ZTE 16.65
12.34 8.84 6.15 4.17 2.77 1.81 1.17 0.75 0.48 Ericsson 3.7 2.4 1.6 1.0  
Huawei 5.94 3.97 2.52 1.64 1.24  
CATT 17.3 12.2 10.1 8.3 6.6 4.7  
Xiaomi 30.71 23.92 17.92 12.93 9.01 6.11 4.05 2.64 1.70 1.09
* * *
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.3.1-1: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with
AAS antenna
Table 6.4.3.1-2: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss - TN BS with
AAS antenna
* * *
ACIR[dB] 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 Qualcomm 37.78 28.51 21.12 13.72 10.16
6.60 4.18 2.89  
Samsung 27.10 19.19 13.13 8.76 5.73 3.71 2.37 1.51 0.97 0.62 MTK 37.56 27.47
19.31 13.11 8.69 5.67 3.65 2.33 1.49 0.94 ZTE 16.27 10.85 7.06 4.59 2.82 1.91
1.31 0.88 0.60 0.39 Ericsson 9.8 6.2 4.5 2.8  
Huawei 8.61 5.01 3.12 1.94 1.32  
CATT 42.07 32.30 22.43 15.88 10.74 7.90 4.40  
Xiaomi 38.87 28.90 20.59 14.15 9.47 6.22 4.03 2.59
* * *
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.3.1-2: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with
AAS antenna
Table 6.4.3.1-3: Interpolated ACIR values for Scenario 3 to meet the 5%
throughput loss criteria - TN BS with AAS antenna
Source Interpolated ACIR[dB]
* * *
Qualcomm Average 19.21 5%-tile **25.32** Samsung Average 18.58 5%-tile
**22.72** MTK Average 19.48 5%-tile **24.66** ZTE Average 17.16 5%-tile
**19.67** Ericsson Average  
5%-tile **23.41** Huawei Average 18.95 5%-tile **20.01** CATT Average 19.68
5%-tile **25.66** Xiaomi Average 21.01 5%-tile **25.11**
Table 6.4.3.1-4: Average ACIR of 5%-tle values in the above worse case for
Scenario 3 - TN BS with AAS antenna
                      Scenario 3
* * *
ACIR value [dB] 23.32
Table 6.4.3.1-5: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
* * *
ACIR[dB] 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 Samsung 10,42 7,20 4,86 3,21 2,09 1,35
0,86 0,55 0,35 0,22 MTK 27,33 20,75 15,22 10,59 7,32 4,81 3,29 2,16 1,45 0,93
ZTE 13,12 9,28 6,37 4,27 2,81 1,82 1,17 0,75 0,48 0,30 THALES NA 15,84 11,43
7,99 5,43 3,61 2,35 1,52 0,97 0,62 Ericsson NA NA NA NA NA 3,0 2,0 1,3 0,8 0,5
* * *
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.3.1-3: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
Table 6.4.3.1-6: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
* * *
ACIR[dB] 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 Samsung 18,31 12,33 8,12 5,28 3,40 2,17
1,38 0,87 0,55 0,35 MTK 39,11 28,66 20,18 13,63 9,06 5,92 3,81 2,44 1,55 0,98
ZTE 21,75 14,80 9,68 6,52 4,36 2,83 1,82 1,20 0,71 0,39 THALES 47,09 35,73
25,48 17,17 11,08 6,65 3,6 2,22 1,39 0,83 Ericsson NA NA NA 7,2 4,5 2,9 1,8
1,2 NA NA
* * *
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.3.1-4: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
Table 6.4.3.1-7: Interpolated ACIR values for Scenario 3 LEO Class to meet the
5% throughput loss criteria - TN BS with non-AAS antenna
Source Interpolated ACIR[dB]
* * *
Samsung Average 13.88 5%-tile **20.30** MTK Average 19.85 5%-tile **24.87**
ZTE Average 15.3 5%-tile **21.41** THALES Average 18.47 5%-tile **25.08**
Ericsson Average  
5%-tile **21.63**
Table 6.4.3.1-8: Average ACIR of 5%-tile values in the above worse case for
Scenario 3 LEO Class - TN BS with non-AAS antenna
                      Scenario 3
* * *
ACIR value [dB] 22.66
6.4.3.2 GEO Class
The co-existence results from all concerned options in this scenario were
evaluated, and it has been agreed to select the NR-NTN GEO DL interfering the
NR DL equipped with AAS antenna that deployed in rural environment as the most
stringent case for GEO class.
Table 6.4.3.2-1: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with
AAS antenna
ACIR[dB] 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20
* * *
Qualcomm 15.65 11.48 8.25 5.96 3.67 2.70 1.74 1.09 Samsung 15.14 11.09 7.86
5.41 3.63 2.39 1.55 1.00 0.64 0.41 MTK 20.35 15.03 10.74 7.33 4.79 3.15 2.05
1.32 0.84 0.53 ZTE 11.39 8.09 5.58 3.76 2.48 1.62 1.04 0.67 0.42 0.27 Ericsson
3.9 2.5 1.6 1.0 CATT 9.73% 7.94% 6.42% 5.15% 4.08% 3.20% 2.48% Xiaomi 22.47
16.68 11.93 8.25 5.56 3.67 2.39 1.54 0.98 0.62
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.3.2-1: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with
AAS antenna
Table 6.4.3.2-2: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss - TN BS with
AAS antenna
ACIR[dB] 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22
* * *
Qualcomm 35.59 26.64 19.54 12.44 9.23 6.02 3.81 Samsung 26.43 18.68 12.77 8.49
5.55 3.58 2.30 1.46 0.93 0.59 MTK 42.08 31.47 22.53 15.53 10.41 6.83 4.43 2.84
1.81 1.15 ZTE 14.19 9.38 6.19 4.19 2.58 1.62 1.00 0.57 0.38 0.25 Ericsson 8.3
5.6 3.5 2.2 CATT 20.86 19.31 14.49 13.09 7.33 5.23 4.17 Xiaomi 36.44 26.85
18.99 12.97 8.65 5.67 3.66 2.35 1.50
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.3.2-2: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss - TN BS with
AAS antenna
Table 6.4.3.2-3: Interpolated ACIR values for Scenario 3 GEO Class to meet the
5% throughput loss criteria - TN BS with AAS antenna
Source Interpolated ACIR[dB]
* * *
Qualcomm Average 8.84 5%-tile **14.46** Samsung Average 8.46 5%-tile **12.56**
MTK Average 9.83 5%-tile **15.53** ZTE Average 6.64 5%-tile **9.2** Ericsson
Average  
5%-tile **12.57** CATT Average 8.28 5%-tile **14.43** Xiaomi Average 10.59
5%-tile **14.67**
Table 6.4.3.2-4: Average ACIR of 5%-tile values in the above worse case for
Scenario 3 GEO Class - TN BS with AAS antenna
                      Scenario 3 GEO Class
* * *
ACIR value [dB] 13.35
Table 6.4.3.2-5: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
* * *
ACIR[dB] 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 Samsung 10.22 7.04 4.73 3.12 2.03 1.31 0.83
0.53 0.34 0.21 MTK 28.38 21.62 15.91 11.36 7.76 5.17 3.37 2.24 1.34 0.85 ZTE
11.89 8.33 5.68 3.79 2.48 1.60 1.03 0.66 0.42 0.26 THALES 2.27 1.46 0.94 0.6
Ericsson 3.2 2.1 1.3 0.9 0.5
* * *
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.3.2-3: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
Table 6.4.3.2-6: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
* * *
ACIR[dB] **6** **8** **10** **12** **14** **16** **18** **20** **22** **24**
Samsung **11,97** **7,88** **5,11** **3,28** **2,09** **1,33** **0,85**
**0,53** **0,34** **0,21** MTK **31,86** **22,83** **15,63** **10,47**
**6,87** **4,45** **2,85** **1,82** **1,16** **0,73** ZTE **13,72** **9,33**
**6,08** **3,88** **2,38** **1,50** **1,13** **0,75** **0,55** **0,30** THALES
** ** ** ** ** ** **9,14** **5,54** **3,6** **2,22** **1,39** **0,83**
**0,55** Ericsson ** ** ** ** **9,1** **5,9** **4,2** **2,8** **1,9** ** ** **
** ** **
* * *
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.3.2-4: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
Table 6.4.3.2-7: Interpolated ACIR values for Scenario 3 GEO Class to meet the
5% throughput loss criteria - TN BS with non-AAS antenna
Source Interpolated ACIR[dB]
* * *
Samsung Average 3.77 5%-tile **10.12** MTK Average 10.19 5%-tile **15.55** ZTE
Average 4.72 5%-tile **10.98** THALES Average NA 5%-tile **14.56** Ericsson
Average NA 5%-tile **13.06**
Table 6.4.3.2-8: Average ACIR of 5%-tile values in the above worse case for
Scenario 3 GEO Class - TN BS with non-AAS antenna
                      Scenario 3
* * *
ACIR value [dB] 12.85
### 6.4.4 Scenario 4: 2GHz NTN UL interfering TN UL
The co-existence results from all concerned options in this scenario were
evaluated, and it has been agreed to select the NR-NTN GEO UL interfering the
NR UL equipped with both AAS and non-AAS antenna that deployed in urban
environment as the most stringent case.
Table 6.4.4-1: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with AAS
antenna
* * *
ACIR[dB] 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 Qualcomm 12.60 10.78 8.96 7.42 6.18
4.93 4.11 3.29 2.63 2.12 Samsung 10.83 8.69 6.92 5.47 4.30 3.35 2.60 2.00 1.53
1.17 MTK 12.16 10.25 8.40 6.66 5.09 3.75 2.67 1.84 1.24 0.82 ZTE 9.35 7.39
5.59 4.38 3.38 2.65 2.05 1.63 1.24 0.94 Ericsson^1^ 1.5 1.2 1.0 CATT 2.72 2.26
1.88 1.58  
Xiaomi 10.31 8.30 6.66 5.34 4.27 3.42 2.74 2.19 1.76 1.41 NOTE 1: This result
is derived by observing the NR sector having an NR-NTN transmitting UE at its
sector edge.
* * *
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.4-1: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with
AAS antenna
Table 6.4.4-2: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss - TN BS with AAS
antenna
* * *
ACIR[dB] 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34 36 38 Qualcomm 24.62 20.07 15.53 12.02 9.55
7.08 5.83 4.58  
Samsung 16.71 12.55 9.44 7.15 5.47 4.19 3.19 2.44 1.86 1.41 MTK 20.91 14.93
10.33 6.95 4.59 2.98 1.92 1.23 0.78 0.49 ZTE 11.43 8.86 7.23 6.23 4.71 3.34
2.66 1.47 0.87 0.75 Ericsson^1^ 7.9 7.1 4.8 4.6 0.5 0.5  
CATT 8.83 7.49 5.57 4.10 3.44 2.95  
Xiaomi 16.47 11.96 8.45 5.79 3.88 2.55 1.66 1.07  
NOTE 1: This result is derived by observing the NR sector having an NR-NTN
transmitting UE at its sector edge.
* * *
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.4-2: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss - TN BS with
AAS antenna
Table 6.4.4-3: Interpolated ACIR values for Scenario 4 to meet the 5%
throughput loss criteria - TN BS with AAS antenna
Source Interpolated ACIR[dB]
* * *
Qualcomm Average 19.89 5%-tile **33.33** Samsung Average 16.80 5%-tile
**28.73** MTK Average 18.13 5%-tile **27.65** ZTE Average 14.98 5%-tile
**27.62** Ericsson(*) Average  
5%-tile **27.83** CATT Average 3.69 5%-tile **24.78** Xiaomi Average 16.64
5%-tile **26.83**
Table 6.4.4-4: Average ACIR of 5%-tile values in the above worse case for
Scenario 4 - TN BS with AAS antenna
                      Scenario 4
* * *
ACIR value [dB] 28.11
Table 6.4.4-5: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
* * *
ACIR[dB] 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 Samsung 10,85 8,39 6,50 5,06 3,96 3,11
2,43 1,88 1,44 1,07 MTK 11,73 9,14 7,05 5,38 4,05 2,99 2,17 1,53 1,06 0,72 ZTE
6,12 5,01 4,16 3,32 2,85 2,27 1,83 1,17 0,80 0,50 THALES NA 0,04 0,03 0,01
0,01 0 0 0 0 0 Ericsson^1^ NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA 1,2 NOTE 1: This result
is derived by observing the NR sector having an NR-NTN transmitting UE at its
sector edge.
* * *
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.4-3: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
Table 6.4.4-6: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
* * *
ACIR[dB] 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34 36 38 Samsung NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
MTK 21,98 15,18 10,19 6,70 4,34 2,79 1,78 1,13 0,72 0,45 ZTE 1,53 1,08 0,47
0,30 0,19 0,03 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 THALES 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Ericsson NA NA
NA NA 12,2 9,7 8,3 7,4 6,1 4,4 NOTE 1: This result is derived by observing the
NR sector having an NR-NTN transmitting UE at its sector edge.
* * *
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.4-4: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
Table 6.4.4-7: Interpolated ACIR values for Scenario 4 to meet the 5%
throughput loss criteria - TN BS with non-AAS antenna
Source Interpolated ACIR[dB]
* * *
Samsung Average **16.11** 5%-tile NA MTK Average 16.57 5%-tile **27.44^1^**
ZTE Average 12.02 5%-tile **15.46** THALES Average NA 5%-tile NA Ericsson
Average NA 5%-tile **37.29^1^** NOTE 1: According to the principles, this
value is not treated for later process.
Table 6.4.4-8: Average ACIR of 5%-tile values in the above worse case for
Scenario 4 - TN BS with non-AAS antenna
                      Scenario 4
* * *
ACIR value [dB] 15.46
### 6.4.5 Scenario 5: 2GHz NTN UL interfering TN DL
The co-existence results from all concerned options in this scenario were
evaluated, and it has been agreed to select the NR-NTN GEO UL interfering the
NR DL equipped with both AAS and non-AAS antenna that deployed in rural
environment as the most stringent case.
Table 6.4.5-1: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with AAS
antenna
ACIR[dB] | 12 | 14 | 16 | 18 | 20 | 22 | 24 | 26 | 28 | 30  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Qualcomm (1) | 7.32 | 5.28 | 3.78 | 2.81 | 1.84 | 1.42 | 0.99 | 0.68 |  |   
MTK | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA  
Xiaomi | 10.31 | 7.75 | 5.70 | 4.11 | 2.91 | 2.03 | 1.39 | 0.94 |  |   
Samsung (1) | 37.13 | 31.30 | 25.62 | 20.30 | 15.53 | 11.43 | 8.07 | 5.43 | 3.43 | 1.98  
Samsung (2) | 0.16 | 0.13 | 0.11 | 0.09 | 0.07 | 0.06 | 0.05 | 0.03 | 0.02 | 0.02  
Ericsson | 0.00 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE 1: These results were derived by adopting free-space path loss model for the links between NR UE and NR-NTN UE. NOTE 2: These results were derived by adopting path loss model from TR 38.901[10] for the links between NR UE and NR-NTN UE. NOTE3: In the meeting, views are expressed on which propagation model is more appropriate for the links between NR UE and NR-NTN UE. Due to the limited time and the fact that this scenario is not the worst case to determine the NR-NTN UE ACLR, this is not discussed nor concluded. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.5-1: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with
AAS antenna
Table 6.4.5-2: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss - TN BS with AAS
antenna
ACIR[dB] | 14 | 16 | 18 | 20 | 22 | 24 | 26 | 28 | 30 | 32  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Qualcomm (1) | 23.52 | 17.84 | 13.74 | 9.65 | 7.54 | 5.42 | 3.84 |  |  |   
MTK | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA  
Xiaomi | 26.06 | 20.19 | 15.30 | 11.29 | 8.09 | 5.64 | 3.81 |  |  |   
Samsung (1) | 72.82 | 63.00 | 52.03 | 40.90 | 30.57 | 21.66 | 14.49 | 9.03 | 5.09 | 2.36  
Samsung (2) | 0.99 | 0.82 | 0.66 | 0.53 | 0.41 | 0.30 | 0.21 | 0.14 | 0.08 | 0.04  
Ericsson | 0.0 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE 1: These results were derived by adopting free-space path loss model for the links between NR UE and NR-NTN UE. NOTE 2: These results were derived by adopting path loss model from TR 38.901[10] for the links between NR UE and NR-NTN UE. NOTE 3: In the meeting, views are expressed on which propagation model is more appropriate for the links between NR UE and NR-NTN UE. Due to the limited time and the fact that this scenario is not the worst case to determine the NR-NTN UE ACLR, this is not discussed nor concluded. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.5-2: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss - TN BS with
AAS antenna
Table 6.4.5-3: Interpolated ACIR values for Scenario 5 to meet the 5%
throughput loss criteria - TN BS with AAS antenna
Source Interpolated ACIR[dB]
* * *
Qualcomm (*) Average 14.37 5%-tile **24.53** MTK Average  
5%-tile  
Xiaomi Average 16.88 5%-tile **24.70** Samsung (*) Average 26.43 5%-tile
**30.07** Samsung (**) Average  
5%-tile  
Ericsson Average  
5%-tile
Table 6.4.5-4: Average ACIR of 5%-tile values in the above worse case for
Scenario 5 - TN BS with AAS antenna
                      Scenario 5
* * *
ACIR value [dB] 26.43
Table 6.4.5-5: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
ACIR[dB] 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18
* * *
MTK 3,01 2,43 1,88 1,39 0,99 0,69 0,46 0,30 0,20 0,13 Samsung 0,32 0,27 0,23
0,20 0,17 0,14 0,12 0,10 0,08 0,06 THALES NA NA NA NA NA NA 0,07 0,06 0,05
0,04 NOTE1: In the meeting, views are expressed on which propagation model is
more appropriate for the links between NR UE and NR-NTN UE. Due to the limited
time and the fact that this scenario is not the worst case to determine the
NR-NTN UE ACLR, this is not discussed nor concluded.
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.5-3: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
Table 6.4.5-6: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
* * *
ACIR[dB] 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 MTK 15,03 10,72 7,39 4,96 3,27 2,12 1,36
0,87 0,55 0,35 Samsung 1,07 0,92 0,77 0,65 0,53 0,44 0,34 0,27 0,20 0,15
THALES 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 NOTE 1: In the meeting, views are expressed on which
propagation model is more appropriate for the links between NR UE and NR-NTN
UE. Due to the limited time and the fact that this scenario is not the worst
case to determine the NR-NTN UE ACLR, this is not discussed nor concluded.
* * *
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.5-4: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
Table 6.4.5-7: Interpolated ACIR values for Scenario 5 to meet the 5%
throughput loss criteria - TN BS with non-AAS antenna
Source Interpolated ACIR[dB]
* * *
MTK Average 0 5%-tile **11.97^1^** Samsung Average 0 5%-tile **0** THALES
Average 0 5%-tile **0** NOTE 1: According to the principles, this value is not
treated for later process.
Table 6.4.5-8: Average ACIR of 5%-tile values in the above worse case for
Scenario 5 - TN BS with non-AAS antenna
                      Scenario 5
* * *
ACIR value [dB] 0
### 6.4.6 Scenario 6: 2GHz TN DL interfering NTN UL
The co-existence results from all concerned options in this scenario were
evaluated, and the initial results suggested that the NR-NTN SAN would suffer
more interference in urban deployment scenario, considering that the central
beam of a GEO satellite (with the agreed minimum elevation angle of 45^o^)
will be full of urban TNs. It was further discussed and agreed that simply
using 20% active rate and assuming fully deployed NR stations with urban
deployment assumptions in the whole NR-NTN beam coverage area would
overestimate the density and aggregated interference from NR stations to NR-
NTN in this scenario. In the end, the case of NR DL interfering the NR-NTN
LEO-600 UL that deployed in a Rural environment has been selected as a
representative one that could be used as basis to derive ACIR values. Further
study could be considered base on a mixed Urban and Rural environment.
Table 6.4.6-1: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
ACIR[dB] 22 24 26 28 30 32 34 36 38 40
* * *
**THALES** 51.17 41.28 31.94 23.87 17.01 11.87 7.91 5.26 3.4 2.22 **MTK** 3.05
1.98 1.28 0.82 0.52 0.33 0.21 0.13 0.08 0.05
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.6-1: Simulation results for average throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
Table 6.4.6-2: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
ACIR[dB] 22 24 26 28 30 32 34 36 38 40
* * *
**THALES** 53.49 43.02 33.72 25.58 17.44 12.79 8.14 5.81 3.49 2.33 **MTK**
8.85 5.78 3.73 2.39 1.52 0.97 0.61 0.39 0.24 0.15
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.6-2: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss - TN BS with
non-AAS antenna
Table 6.4.6-3: Interpolated ACIR values for Scenario 5 to meet the 5%
throughput loss criteria - TN BS with non-AAS antenna
Source Interpolated ACIR[dB]
* * *
**THALES** Average 36.69 5%-tile **36.7** **MTK** Average 19.66 5%-tile
24.67^1^ NOTE 1: According to the principles, this value is not treated for
later process.
Table 6.4.6-4: Average ACIR of 5%-tile values in the above worse case for
Scenario 6 - TN BS with non-AAS antenna
                      Scenario 6
* * *
ACIR value [dB] 36.7
### 6.4.7 Scenario 7: 2GHz HAPS DL interfering TN DL
The co-existence results contributed have been collected and compared in the
following.
Table 6.4.7-1: Simulation results for average throughput loss
* * *
ACIR[dB] 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 Nokia 28,80 16,80 8,10 3,30 1,10 0,30 0,10
0,10 Qualcomm 38,41 23,95 12,26 5,14 1,86 0,62 0,20 0,06
* * *
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.7-1: Simulation results for average throughput loss
Table 6.4.7-2: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss
* * *
ACIR[dB] 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 Nokia 77,10 53,20 26,60 9,80 1,80 0,30 0,20
0,00 Qualcomm 100,00 68,11 39,34 17,38 6,66 2,37 0,77 0,21
* * *
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.7-2: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss
Table 6.4.7-3: Interpolated ACIR values for Scenario 7 to meet the 5%
throughput loss criteria
Source Interpolated ACIR[dB]
* * *
Nokia Average 18.22 5%-tile **23.00** Qualcomm Average 20.10 5%-tile **26.93**
Table 6.4.7-4: Average ACIR of 5%-tile values in the above worse case for
Scenario 7
                      Scenario 1
* * *
ACIR value [dB] 24.97
### 6.4.8 Scenario 8: 2GHz TN UL interfering HAPS UL
The co-existence results contributed have been collected and compared in the
following.
Table 6.4.8-1: Simulation results for average throughput loss
* * *
ACIR[dB] 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 Nokia 14.4% 7.2% 3.0% 1.4% 0.7% 0.6% 0.1% 0.0%
* * *
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.8-1: Simulation results for average throughput loss
Table 6.4.8-2: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss
* * *
ACIR[dB] 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 Nokia 35.4% 22.6% 12.6% 11.5% 7.5% 5.0% 4.5%
1.1%
* * *
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 6.4.8-2: Simulation results for 5%-tile throughput loss
## 6.5 Summary of co-existence study
### 6.5.1 Coexistence at 2GHz
This sub-clause captures the summary of the co-existence studies. The averaged
interpolate ACIR values for each scenario are presented in Table 6.5.1-1
below.
Table 6.5.1-1: Average ACIR values for each scenario
+-------------------+--------------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Scenario | 1 | 2 | 3 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | LEO | GEO | | | | | +===================+====================+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | ACIR value [dB] | TN BS with AAS | 27.83 | 28.03 | 23.32 | 13.35 | 28.11 | 26.43 | 36.70 | +-------------------+--------------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | TN BS with non-AAS | 28.31 | 29.22 | 22.66 | 12.85 | 15.46 | 0 | | +-------------------+--------------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Then, by considering the following ACLR and ACS of TN BS and UE in Table
6.5.1-2, the suggested ACLR and ACS of NTN SAN, HAPS and UE from each scenario
are given in Table 6.5.1-3. It should be noted that the values in Table
6.5.1-3 are directly derived from the selected option of each scenario, and it
is limited by the nature of assumptions and methodologies adopted in the co-
existence studies.
Table 6.5.1-2: ACLR and ACS of TN
TN Values
* * *
BS ACLR 45 dB ACS 46 dB UE ACLR 30 dB ACS 33 dB
Table 6.5.1-3: Co-existence results suggested ACLR and ACS of NR-NTN
+----------+--------------+--------------------+ | Scenario | Contributing | ACLR ACS values | +==========+==============+====================+ | 1 | NTN UE ACS | 27.91 dB (AAS) | +----------+--------------+--------------------+ | 2 | NTN SAN ACS | 37.06 dB (non-AAS) | +----------+--------------+--------------------+ | 3 | NTN SAN ACLR | LEO: 23.81 dB | | | | | | | | GEO: 13.39 dB | +----------+--------------+--------------------+ | 4 | NTN UE ACLR | 28.18 dB (AAS) | +----------+--------------+--------------------+ | 5 | NTN UE ACLR | 27.51 dB (AAS) | +----------+--------------+--------------------+ | 6 | NTN SAN ACS | 37.4 dB | +----------+--------------+--------------------+ | 7 | HAPS ACLR | 24.97 dB | +----------+--------------+--------------------+ | 8 | HAPS ACS | 30 dB | +----------+--------------+--------------------+
Considering the above suggested values, the agreed ACLR and ACS of NR-NTN are
given in Table 6.5.1-4.
Table 6.5.1-4: ACLR and ACS of NR-NTN
+------------------------------------------+--------+-------+-------+ | NR-NTN | Values | | | +==========================================+========+=======+=======+ | SAN | ACLR | GEO | 14 dB | +------------------------------------------+--------+-------+-------+ | | | LEO | 24 dB | +------------------------------------------+--------+-------+-------+ | | ACS^1^ | GEO | 38 dB | +------------------------------------------+--------+-------+-------+ | | | LEO | 38 dB | +------------------------------------------+--------+-------+-------+ | HAPS | ACLR | 45^2^ | | +------------------------------------------+--------+-------+-------+ | | ACS | 46 | | +------------------------------------------+--------+-------+-------+ | UE | ACLR | 30 dB | | +------------------------------------------+--------+-------+-------+ | | ACS | 33 dB | | +------------------------------------------+--------+-------+-------+ | NOTE 1: The ACS values for SAN apply to | | | | | both Rural and Urban environment. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: This value could be further | | | | | relaxed based on co-existence studies if | | | | | it is found more stringent than | | | | | necessary. | | | | +------------------------------------------+--------+-------+-------+
# 7 RF requirements
## 7.1 SAN Reference points for RF requirements
### 7.1.1 General
This section describes the SAN reference points for RF requirements with
respect to different SAN types.
### 7.1.2 _SAN type 1-C_
This requirement is not applicable in Release 17.
### 7.1.3 _SAN type 1-H_
For _SAN type 1-H_ , the requirements are defined for two points of reference,
signified by radiated requirements and conducted requirements.
Figure 7.1.3-1: Radiated and conducted reference points for _SAN type 1-H_
Radiated characteristics are defined over the air (OTA), where the _operating
band_ specific radiated interface is referred to as the _Radiated Interface
Boundary_ (RIB). Radiated requirements are also referred to as OTA
requirements. The (spatial) characteristics in which the OTA requirements
apply are detailed for each requirement.
Conducted characteristics are defined at individual or groups of _TAB
connectors_ at the _transceiver array boundary_ , which is the conducted
interface between the transceiver unit array and the composite antenna.
The transceiver unit array is part of the composite transceiver functionality
receiving and transmitting modulated signals to ensure radio links with ground
base stations and users.
The Non-NTN infrastructure gNB functions implement the modulation and
demodulation functionalities of the NTN gNB.
The Satellite NTN Gateway is part of the NTN ground infrastructure and is
responsible for up- and down-converting, as well as transmitting and receiving
modulated signals between the Non-NTN infrastructure gNB functions and the
Satellite payload via the Feeder link.
The satellite payload is composed by a transceiver unit array and a composite
antenna array. The transceiver unit array contains an implementation of
specific number of transmitter units and an implementation of specific number
of receiver units.
The composite antenna contains a radio distribution network (RDN) and an
antenna array. The RDN is a linear passive network which distributes the RF
power generated by the transceiver unit array to the transmit antenna array.
How a conducted requirement is applied to the _transceiver array boundary_ is
detailed in the respective requirement clause.
### 7.1.4 _SAN type 1-O_
For _SAN type 1-O_ the radiated characteristics are defined over the air
(OTA), where the _operating band_ specific radiated interface is referred to
as the _Radiated Interface Boundary_ (RIB). Radiated requirements are also
referred to as OTA requirements. The (spatial) characteristics in which the
OTA requirements apply are detailed for each requirement.
Figure 7.1.4-1: Radiated reference points for _SAN type 1-O_
The _SAN type 1-O_ payload includes an active antenna with performances
characterized in radiated mode (OTA).
## 7.2 Common issues for satellite access node and NTN UE
### 7.2.1 General
This section aims to present the agreed definitions for the newly introduced
NTN operating bands. The possible configurations in terms of channel
bandwidth, SCS, channel and synchronization raster for NTN operations are
introduced as well.
### 7.2.2 Operating bands
The following bands in Table 7.2.2-1 are agreed as exemplary NTN satellite
bands in Release 17. Regarding the band numbering for NTN satellite bands, it
is agreed to start from the largest band number in FR1 range for NTN satellite
bands which fully within FR1 frequency ranges to better differentiate NTN
satellite band and TN bands and ensure contiguous band number allocation for
NTN satellite bands, the number can be taken in a decreased order with first
come, first service.
Table 7.2.2-1: NTN satellite bands in FR1
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **NTN | Uplink (UL) | Downlink (DL) |** Duplex | | satellite | _operating |_ operating | mode**| |_band #_** | band _\ | band_ \ | | | | Satellite | Satellite | | | | Access Node | Access Node | | | | receive / UE | transmit / UE | | | | transmit | receive | | | | | | | | | **F~UL,low~ -- |** F~DL,low~ -- | | | | F~UL,high~**| F~DL,high~** | | +================+================+================+================+ | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | n256 | 1980MHz -- | 2170 MHz -- | FDD | | | 2010 MHz | 2200 MHz | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | n255 | 1626.5 MHz -- | 1525 MHz -- | FDD | | | 1660.5 MHz | 1559 MHz | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE: NTN | | | | | bands are | | | | | numbered in | | | | | descending | | | | | order from | | | | | n256. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 7.2.3 Channel bandwidth, SCS and spectral utilization
The common definition for channel bandwidth, transmission bandwidth
configuration, minimum guard band, and RB alignment in TS 38.104[16] and TS
38.101-1[17] can be reused for NTN satellite system.
The supported channel bandwidths per operating band should be defined based on
NTN operator input. The details are given in Table 7.2.3-1.
Table 7.2.3-1: _Channel bandwidths_ and SCS per NTN satellite operating band
in FR1
+-----------------------+-----+-------+--------+--------+--------+ | NTN satellite band # | SCS | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | | | | | | | | | | kHz | | | | | +=======================+=====+=======+========+========+========+ | | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | +-----------------------+-----+-------+--------+--------+--------+ | n256 | 30 | | Yes | Yes | Yes | +-----------------------+-----+-------+--------+--------+--------+ | | 60 | | Yes | Yes | Yes | +-----------------------+-----+-------+--------+--------+--------+ | | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | +-----------------------+-----+-------+--------+--------+--------+ | n255 | 30 | | Yes | Yes | Yes | +-----------------------+-----+-------+--------+--------+--------+ | | 60 | | Yes | Yes | Yes | +-----------------------+-----+-------+--------+--------+--------+
### 7.2.4 Channel raster and sync raster
#### 7.2.4.1 Channel raster
In order to be compatible with current design of sync raster below 3 GHz, the
ARFCN parameters below 3000 MHz will be reused and 100 kHz was chosen as the
channel raster for NR NTN satellite bands below 3 GHz.
The applicable ARFCNs per operating and for satellite access node are defined
in table 7.2.4.1-1.
Table 7.2.4.1-1: ARFCNs per operating band satellite access node
+-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | NTN satellite | ΔF~Raster~ | Uplink | Downlink | | band # | | | | | | (kHz) | range of N~REF~ | range of N~REF~ | | | | | | | | | (First -- | (First -- | | | | \ | \ | | | | -- Last) | -- Last) | +=================+============+=================+=================+ | n256 | 100 | 396000 -- | 434000 -- | | | | \ \-- | \ \-- | | | | 402000 | 440000 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n255 | 100 | 325300 -- | 305000 -- | | | | \ \-- | \ \-- | | | | 332100 | 311800 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 7.2.4.2 Sync raster
The applicable SS raster entries per operating band are defined in Table
7.2.4.2-1
Table 7.2.4.2-1: Applicable SS raster entries per _operating band_
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | NTN _satellite | SS Block SCS | SS Block | Range of GSCN | | band #_ | | pattern | | | | | | (First -- | | | | | \ | | | | | -- Last) | +================+==============+================+================+ | n256 | 15 kHz | Case A | 5429 -- \ | | | | | -- 5494 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | n255 | 15 kHz | Case A | 3818 -- \ | | | | | -- 3892 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 30 kHz | Case B | 3824 -- \ | | | | | -- 3886 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
## 7.3 Satellite Access Node requirements
### 7.3.1 General
This section aims to provide some recommendations for the Satellite Access
Node RF requirements definition in TS 38.181 [25] and TS 38.108 [26]. The
technical justifications which support the requirements definition are also
presented in the following sub-clauses.
NTN products are assumed to use AAS BS architecture, with both 1-H and 1-O
being included in Release 17 WI. Therefore, both conducted, as well as
radiated requirements are required to be considered.
#### 7.3.1.1 SAN class
The requirements in TS 38.108 [26] apply to Satellite Access Node otherwise
stated. The associated deployment scenarios are exactly the same for SAN with
and without connectors.
For SAN type 1-O and SAN type 1-H, two SAN classes (LEO and GEO) are currently
defined in Table 7.3.1.1-1.
Table 7.3.1.1-1: SAN classes
+-----------+-------------------------+ | SAN Class | Satellite Constellation | +===========+=========================+ | GEO class | GEO satellite | +-----------+-------------------------+ | LEO class | LEO 600 km satellite | | | | | | LEO 1200 km satellite | +-----------+-------------------------+
The classification is based on the requirements associated with SAN classes in
case-by-case manner including [IoT level/ICS, NF, ACLR/ACS, Emission]
requirements. The satellite altitude or orbit type were not identified as part
of the class differentiation, and for this reason LEO at 600 km and LEO at
1200 km were grouped together in the same class. At least NF, ACLR and ACS
values are the same for LEO 600 km and LEO 1200 km and therefore are not
requiring class differentiation. On the other hand, as resulted from the
coexistence studies, ACLR requirement values are different between GEO and LEO
constellations, requiring a class differentiation. Differences exist as well
in terms of emission requirements (e.g. Out-of-band emissions and spurious
emissions) between GEO and LEO. At the same time, ACS requirement values from
the coexistence studies are the same between GEO and LEO constellations.
### 7.3.2 Transmission characteristics
#### 7.3.2.1 General
Radiated characteristics are defined over the air (OTA), where the radiated
interface is referred to as the _Radiated Interface Boundary_ (RIB) as shown
in Figure 7.3.2.1-1.
Conducted characteristics are defined at individual or groups of _TAB
connectors_ at the _transceiver array boundary_ , which is the conducted
interface between the transceiver unit array and the composite antenna. The
TAB connector is shown in Figure 7.3.2.1-1.
{width="4.564705818022747in" height="1.9380719597550307in"}
Figure 7.3.2.1-1: Reference point for SAN type 1-H
#### 7.3.2.2 Conducted transmitter requirements
##### 7.3.2.2.1 SAN output power
The SAN conducted output power requirement applies at _TAB connector_ for _SAN
type 1-H_.
The _rated carrier output power_ of the _SAN type 1-H_ shall be as specified
in Table 7.3.2.2.1-1.
Table 7.3.2.2.1-1: _SAN type 1-H_ rated output power limits for SAN classes
SAN class P~rated,c,sys~ P~rated,c,TABC~
* * *
SAN GEO class (NOTE) (NOTE) SAN LEO class (NOTE) (NOTE) NOTE: P~rated,c,sys~
or P~rated,c,TABC~ of SAN shall be based on manufacture declaration and comply
with regulation requirement.
In normal conditions, P~max,c,TABC~ shall remain within +2 dB and -2 dB of the
_rated carrier output power_ P~rated,c,TABC~ for each _TAB connector_ as
declared by the manufacturer.
In extreme conditions, P~max,c,TABC~ shall remain within +2.5 dB and -2.5 dB
of _the rated carrier output power_ P~rated,c,TABC~ for each _TAB connector_
as declared by the manufacturer.
##### 7.3.2.2.2 Output power dynamics
##### 7.3.2.2.2.1 RE power dynamic range {#re-power-dynamic-range .H6}
The RE power control dynamic range is the difference between the power of an
RE and the average RE power for a SAN at maximum output power for a specified
reference condition.
RE power control dynamic range requirement is define in Table 7.3.2.2.2.1-1.
Table **7.3.2.2.2.1** -1: RE power control dynamic range
Modulation scheme used RE power control dynamic range (dB)
* * *
on the RE (down) (up) QPSK (PDCCH) -6 +4 QPSK (PDSCH) -6 +3 16QAM (PDSCH) -3
+3 NOTE: The output power per carrier shall always be less or equal to the
maximum output power of the satellite access node.
##### 7.3.2.2.2.2 Total power dynamic range {#total-power-dynamic-range .H6}
Total power dynamic range for SAN will reuse the requirement from TN BS for
the same channel bandwidth.
The downlink (DL) total power dynamic range for each carrier shall be larger
than or equal to the level in table 7.3.2.2.2.2-1.
Table **7.3.2.2.2.2** -1: Total power dynamic range
_SAN channel_ Total power dynamic range (dB)
* * *
_bandwidth (MHz)_ 15 kHz SCS 30 kHz SCS 60 kHz SCS 5 13.9 10.4 N/A 10 17.1
13.8 10.4 15 18.9 15.7 12.5 20 20.2 17 13.8
##### 7.3.2.2.3 Transmitted signal quality
##### 7.3.2.2.3.1 Frequency error {#frequency-error .H6}
For _SAN type_ 1-H, the modulated carrier frequency of each carrier configured
by the satellite access node shall be accurate to within 0.05ppm observed over
1 ms.
##### 7.3.2.2.3.2 Modulation quality (EVM) {#modulation-quality-evm .H6}
It is agreed to support QPSK and 16QAM for SAN. 64QAM will be optionally
supported based on manufacture declaration.
For SAN type 1-H, the EVM levels of each carrier for different modulation
schemes on PDSCH outlined in table 7.3.2.2.3.2-1 shall be met.
Table 7.3.2.2.3.2-1: EVM requirements for _satellite access node type 1-H_
Modulation scheme for PDSCH Required EVM
* * *
QPSK 17.5 % 16QAM 12.5 % 64QAM^1^ 8 % NOTE: Support of 64QAM is based on
manufacture declaration
##### 7.3.2.2.4 Unwanted emissions
##### 7.3.2.2.4.1 ACLR {#aclr .H6}
Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) is the ratio of the filtered mean
power centred on the assigned channel frequency to the filtered mean power
centred on an adjacent channel frequency.
From _Section 6.5 Summary of co-existence_ study (see TR 38.863 related
section), it can be observed in _Table 6.5.1-3 Co-existence results suggested
ACLR and ACS of NR-NTN_ the resulted study value of NTN SAN ACLR:
Table 7.3.2.2.4.1-1: NTN SAN ACLR
NTN LEO class ACLR 23.81 dB
* * *
NTN GEO class ACLR 13.39 dB
Therefore, the value of 24 dB is the ACLR LEO class limit for the conducted
transmitter requirements of SAN as shown in Table 7.3.2.2.4.1-2 and the value
14 dB is the ACLR GEO class limit for the conducted transmitter requirements
of SAN as shown in Table 7.3.2.2.4.1-3:
Table 7.3.2.2.4.1-2: Satellite Access Node LEO class ACLR limit
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | _SAN | SAN | Assumed | Filter on | ACLR limit | | channel | adjacent | adjacent | the | | | bandwidth_ | channel | channel | adjacent | | | of | centre | carrier | channel | | | _low | frequency | (i | frequency | | | est/highest | offset | nformative) | and | | | carrier_ | below the | | co | | | transmitted | lowest or | | rresponding | | | BW~Channel~ | above the | | filter | | | (MHz) | highest | | bandwidth | | | | carrier | | | | | | centre | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | transmitted | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | 5, 10, 15, | BW~Channel~ | NR of same | Square | 24 dB | | 20 | | BW^2^ | (BW~ | | | | | | Config~)^1^ | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | 2 x | NR of same | Square | 24 dB | | | BW~Channel~ | BW^2^ | (BW~ | | | | | | Config~)^1^ | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | BW~Channel~ | | | | | | and | | | | | | BW~Config~ | | | | | | are the | | | | | | _SAN | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth_ | | | | | | and | | | | | | _t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | con | | | | | | figuration_ | | | | | | of the | | | | | | _low | | | | | | est/highest | | | | | | carrier_ | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | on the | | | | | | assigned | | | | | | channel | | | | | | frequency. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | With SCS | | | | | | that | | | | | | provides | | | | | | largest | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | (B | | | | | | W~Config~). | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
Table 7.3.2.2.4.1-3: Satellite Access Node GEO class ACLR limit
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | _SAN | SAN | Assumed | Filter on | ACLR limit | | channel | adjacent | adjacent | the | | | bandwidth_ | channel | channel | adjacent | | | of | centre | carrier | channel | | | _low | frequency | (i | frequency | | | est/highest | offset | nformative) | and | | | carrier_ | below the | | co | | | transmitted | lowest or | | rresponding | | | BW~Channel~ | above the | | filter | | | (MHz) | highest | | bandwidth | | | | carrier | | | | | | centre | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | transmitted | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | 5, 10, 15, | BW~Channel~ | NR of same | Square | 14 dB | | 20 | | BW^2^ | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | | | | | ^1^ | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | 2 x | NR of same | Square | 14 dB | | | BW~Channel~ | BW^2^ | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | | | | | ^1^ | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | BW~Channel~ | | | | | | and | | | | | | BW~Config~ | | | | | | are the | | | | | | _SAN | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth_ | | | | | | and | | | | | | _t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | con | | | | | | figuration_ | | | | | | of the | | | | | | _low | | | | | | est/highest | | | | | | carrier_ | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | on the | | | | | | assigned | | | | | | channel | | | | | | frequency. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | With SCS | | | | | | that | | | | | | provides | | | | | | largest | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | (B | | | | | | W~Config~). | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
##### 7.3.2.2.4.2 Out-of-band emissions {#out-of-band-emissions .H6}
The SAN out-of-band emissions requirements for GEO and LEO classes are
therefore defined as described in Table 7.3.2.2.4.2-1.
Table 7.3.2.2.4.2-1: SAN out-of-band emissions basic limits
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Frequency | _Basic limits_ | _Measurement | | offset of | offset of | | bandwidth_ | | measurement | measurement | dBm | | | filter ‑3dB | filter centre | | | | point, ∆f | frequency, | | | | | f_offset | | | +================+================+================+================+ | 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \ 47dBm : | | | | | | | | | | | | P~rat | | | | | | ed,c,sys~-60 | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 3) | | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+-------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | Measurement | | | | | | bandwidths | | | | | | as in | | | | | | Re | | | | | | commendation | | | | | | ITU-R SM.329 | | | | | | [30], | | | | | | s4.1. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Lower and | | | | | | Upper | | | | | | frequency as | | | | | | in | | | | | | Re | | | | | | commendation | | | | | | ITU-R SM.329 | | | | | | [30], | | | | | | s2.5, | | | | | | Table 1. | | | | | | Applies only | | | | | | for the | | | | | | fundamental | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range 600 | | | | | | MHz - 5.2 | | | | | | GHz (e.g. | | | | | | for n255 and | | | | | | n256 | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | bands). | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | Values as in | | | | | | Re | | | | | | commendation | | | | | | ITU-R SM.329 | | | | | | [30], | | | | | | Table 10. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | Lower | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | limit is | | | | | | replaced by | | | | | | 0.7 times | | | | | | the | | | | | | waveguide | | | | | | cut-off | | | | | | frequency, | | | | | | according to | | | | | | ITU-R | | | | | | SM.3 | | | | | | 29-12[30], | | | | | | for systems | | | | | | having an | | | | | | integral | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | i | | | | | | ncorporating | | | | | | a waveguide | | | | | | section, or | | | | | | with an | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | connection | | | | | | in such | | | | | | form, and of | | | | | | unperturbed | | | | | | length equal | | | | | | to at least | | | | | | twice the | | | | | | cut-off | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: This | | | | | | spurious | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range | | | | | | applies only | | | | | | to SAN type | | | | | | 1-H. | | | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
Recommendation ITU-R SM.329 [30] defines Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain. Measurement bandwidth is listed in section 4.1, lower and upper
frequencies are specified in the Table 1 of section 2.5 and the values are
taken from the table 10.
#### 7.3.2.3 Radiated transmitter requirements
##### 7.3.2.3.1 Reserved
##### 7.3.2.3.2 Reserved
##### 7.3.2.3.3 Reserved
##### 7.3.2.3.4 Reserved
##### 7.3.2.3.5 Reserved
##### 7.3.2.3.6 Reserved
##### 7.3.2.3.7 Reserved
##### 7.3.2.3.7.1 Reserved {#reserved-7 .H6}
##### 7.3.2.3.7.2 Reserved {#reserved-8 .H6}
##### 7.3.2.3.7.3 OTA Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio (ACLR) {#ota-
adjacent-channel-leakage-power-ratio-aclr .H6}
##### 7.3.2.3.7.3.1 General {#general-4 .H6}
OTA Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) is the ratio of the filtered
mean power centred on the assigned channel frequency to the filtered mean
power centred on an adjacent channel frequency. The measured power is TRP.
##### 7.3.2.3.7.3.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-O_ {#minimum-
requirement-for-san-type-1-o .H6}
The OTA ACLR limit requirement for SAN type 1-O is the same as the ACLR limit
defined in _Section 7.3.2.2.4.1 ACLR_ of TR 38.863. For the OTA SAN ACLR limit
refer to _Table 7.3.2.2.4.1-2: Satellite Access Node ACLR limit._
The OTA SAN ACLR absolute basic limit from _Table 7.3.2.2.4.1-3: SAN ACLR
absolute basic limit_ does not apply to SAN type 1-O.
##### 7.3.2.3.7.3.3 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 2-O_ {#minimum-
requirement-for-san-type-2-o .H6}
This requirement is not applicable in Release 17.
### 7.3.3 Receiver characteristics
#### 7.3.3.1 General
For Rx requirements, the TAB connector is located in the satellite payload,
while the throughput measurement is done in the "non-NTN infrastructure gNB",
as shown in the Figure 7.3.3.1-1 for reference sensitivity
requirement.[18][19]
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="1.9326388888888888in"}
Figure 7.3.3.1-1: Reference points for m**measurement of Rx requirements**
The FRCs specified in TS 38.104[16] shall be re-used to specify the satellite
access node Rx requirements. Further revisit is not precluded if the spectrum
utilization (SU) would be different.
For derivation of the Rx requirements, the following assumptions were made:
\- The FRCs specified in TS 38.104 [16] for NR BS were re-used to specify the
NTN SAN Rx requirements.
\- The Implementation Margin (IM) value was assumed to be 2 dB for NTN SAN.
\- The following Noise Figure (NF) values were used for the derivation of Rx
requirements for NTN SAN:
Table 7.3.3.1-1: NF values for NTN SAN requirements derivation
                   GEO       LEO 600   LEO 1200
* * *
G/T (dB K^-1^) 19 1.1 1.1 G_Rx (dBi) 51 30 30 NF (dB) **7.4** **4.3** **4.3**
#### 7.3.3.2 Conducted receiver characteristics
##### 7.3.3.2.1 Reference sensitivity level
The following equation was used to derive the reference sensitivity for NTN
SAN requirement development, reusing the same methodology for the reference
sensitivity derivation as done for the NR BS, as captured in TR 38.817-02
[31]:
P~REFSENS~ = -174 dBm/Hz + 10 * log10 BW + NF + IM + SNR [dBm]
Where:
\- BW is the maximum transmission bandwidth,
\- NF is noise figure of NTN SAN receiver in dB,
\- IM is implementation margin reserved for NTN SAN manufacturer in dB;
\- SNR is the value to satisfy the 95% throughput of the FRC channel.
##### 7.3.3.2.2 Dynamic range
The Rx dynamic range is specified as a measure of the capability of the
receiver to receive a wanted signal in the presence of an interfering signal
at the TAB connector for _SAN_ type 1-H inside the received SAN channel
bandwidth. In this condition, a throughput requirement shall be met for a
specified reference measurement channel. As the Rx dynamic range requirement
measures the effects of NTN SAN receiver's impairments, the uncertainty due to
the receiver's own thermal noise floor should be minimized. Therefore, the
interference level should be increased by a certain amount of margin to mask
the receiver's own noise floor, represented by Interference over Thermal
(IoT).
In order to define the dynamic range requirement, both wanted and interfering
signal power levels need to be defined. The mean power levels of interfering
and the wanted signals were defined in the following method:
P~Intf~ = -174 dBm/Hz + 10 * log10(N~RB~ * SCS * 12) + NF + IoT
P~wanted~ = -174 dBm/Hz + 10 * log~10~(N~RB~ * SCS * 12) + NF + IoT + SNR + IM
Where:
\- N~RB~ is the transmission bandwidth configuration of the lowest SCS defined
for SAN for each _BS channel bandwidth_ ;
\- SCS is the lowest sub-carrier spacing defined for SAN for each _BS channel
bandwidth_ ;
\- NF is noise figure of SAN receiver in dB as defined in table 6.2.2.1-5,
\- IoT: during the discussion various values of the IoT were considered for
the definition of the dynamic range requirement. In case of LEO600, IoT values
in range of 15-18 dB were collected based on the simulation results. In case
of LEO1200, IoT values in range of 10-15 dB were collected based on the
simulation results, as captured in annex D.
\- SNR is the value to satisfy the 95% throughput of measurement channel. As
the derivation methodology and the FRC's from the NR BS was reused, more
details on the SNR simulation results can be found in TR 38.817-02 [31];
\- IM is implementation margin reserved for SAN manufacturer in dB. The IM
values was reused from the NR BS as 2 dB;
For SAN it was agreed to define a single dynamic range requirement for LEO SAN
(both 600 and 1200) based on the IoT value of 15 dB. Based on the collected
simulation results for NTN scenarios, it was decided not to define dynamic
rage requirement for SAN GEO class.
The interfering signal for the dynamic range requirement was defined as AWGN
signal, same as for NR BS requirements.
##### 7.3.3.2.3 In-band selectivity and blocking
##### 7.3.3.2.3.1 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) {#adjacent-channel-
selectivity-acs .H6}
##### 7.3.3.2.3.1.1 General {#general-6 .H6}
Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS) is a measure of the receiver's ability to
receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency at the _antenna
connector_ for _NTN Satellite Access Node (SAN)_ in the presence of an
adjacent channel signal with a specified centre frequency offset of the
interfering signal to the band edge of a victim system.
The ACS value is coming from coexistence analysis. A worst case value of 38 dB
ACS is found in GEO case and the interfering signal mean power (dBm) is
computed given a NF 7.4 dB for a 5 MHz band.
It is worth noting that OFDM is considered as interfering waveform (rather
than DFT-s-OFDM) corresponding to a coexistence scenario 6 for the MSS S-band
where TN BS DL is interfering with SAN UL.
##### 7.3.3.2.3.1.2 Minimum requirements for Satellite Access Node {#minimum-
requirements-for-satellite-access-node .H6}
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel.
For SAN, the wanted and the interfering signal coupled to the _antenna
connector_ are specified in table 7.3.3.2.3.1.2-1 and table 7.3.3.2.3.1.2-2
and the frequency offset between the wanted and interfering signal in table
7.3.3.2.3.1.2-3 for ACS.
The ACS requirement is applicable outside the _SAN RF Bandwidth_ or _Radio
Bandwidth_. The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the _SAN RF
Bandwidth_ edges or _Radio Bandwidth_ edges.
Minimum conducted requirement is defined at the _antenna connector._
Table 7.3.3.2.3.1.2-1: SAN GEO class ACS requirement
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | _SAN channel | Wanted signal mean | Interfering signal | | bandwidth_ of the | power (dBm) | mean power (dBm) | | lowest/_highest | | | | carrier_ received | | | | (MHz) | | | +======================+======================+======================+ | 5, 10, 15, 20 (NOTE | P~REFSENS~ + 6 dB | -57 | | 1) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: The SCS for | | | | the lowest/highest | | | | carrier received is | | | | the lowest SCS | | | | supported by the SAN | | | | for that bandwidth. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For SAN, | | | | P~REFSENS~ depends | | | | on the _SAN channel | | | | bandwidth_. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 7.3.3.2.3.1.2-2: SAN LEO class ACS requirement
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | _SAN channel | Wanted signal mean | Interfering signal | | bandwidth_ of the | power (dBm) | mean power (dBm) | | lowest/_highest | | | | carrier_ received | | | | (MHz) | | | +======================+======================+======================+ | 5, 10, 15, 20 (NOTE | P~REFSENS~ + 6 dB | -60 | | 1) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: The SCS for | | | | the lowest/highest | | | | carrier received is | | | | the lowest SCS | | | | supported by the SAN | | | | for that bandwidth. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For SAN, | | | | P~REFSENS~ depends | | | | on the _SAN channel | | | | bandwidth_. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The wanted signal and interfering signal power level are calculated in the
following way in FR1:
Wanted signal power level = REFSENS + 6 dB
Interfering signal power level = SAN noise floor + ACS + 4.7dB = ‑174
dBm/Hz+10*log~10~(BW) + NF + ACS + 4.7 dB
Where:
\- BW is wanted signal bandwidth in Hz, e.g. 25 PRB for 5 MHz SCS 15 kHz;
\- NF is noise figure which is agreed as 7.4 dB for GEO, 4.3 dB for LEO\@600,
4.3 dB for LEO\@1200;
\- SAN ACS is agreed as 38 dBc (more precisely according to coexistence
Scenario 6, it has been noticed from the coexistence simulations that the
required SAN ACS is in the order of 38 dBc ACS);
\- 4.7 dB is calculated from 10log~10~(10\^(6/10)-1).
If the equation considers the worst case of 38 dB ACS, with NF of 7.4 dB for
GEO class and NF of 4.3 dB for LEO class, for 5 MHz signal bandwidth (as for
TS 38.104[16]), the interfering signal mean power level is:
-174+10*log10(**5*** 10\^6)+7.4+38+4.7=**-57dBm** for GEO class, according to the interfering signal mean power value from Table 7.4.1.2-1**.**
-174+10*log10(**5*** 10\^6)+4.3+38+4.7=**-60dBm** for LEO class, according to the interfering signal mean power value from Table 7.4.1.2-2**.**
Table 7.3.3.2.3.1.2-3: SAN ACS interferer frequency offset values
_SAN channel bandwidth_ of the _lowest/highest carrier_ received (MHz)
Interfering signal centre frequency offset from the lower/upper _SAN RF
Bandwidth edge_ or _sub-block_ edge inside a _sub-block gap_ (MHz) Type of
interfering signal
* * *
5 ±2.5025  
10 ±2.5075 5 MHz OFDM NR signal 15 ±2.5125 15 kHz SCS, 25 RBs 20 ±2.5025
##### 7.3.3.2.3.2 In-band blocking {#in-band-blocking .H6}
No In-band blocker is considered for SAN.
##### 7.3.3.2.4 Out-of-band blocking
##### 7.3.3.2.4.1 General {#general-7 .H6}
The out-of-band blocking characteristics is a measure of the receiver ability
to receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel at the _TAB connector_ for
_SAN type 1-H_ in the presence of an unwanted interferer out of the _operating
band_ , which is a CW signal for out-of-band blocking.
Figure 7.3.3.2.4.1-1: Band of concern to determine OOB blocking
The identified worst case is for the band n256 with the SpaceOps TC
(TeleCommand) band between 2025 and 2110 MHz. This band is used to send
commands to the satellite platform, taking into account the fact that a very
robust radio link is established. To do so, the maximum EIRP of SpaceOps
(Space Operations) TC (TeleCommand) stations is 80 dBW.
For a LEO satellite at 600 km (LEO\@600km), in a worst case scenario (i.e.
SpaceOps TC station at satellite Nadir), the free space losses are 154 dB.
Therefore, the signal level at satellite level is -44 dBm.
##### 7.3.3.2.4.2 Minimum requirements for Satellite Access Node {#minimum-
requirements-for-satellite-access-node-1 .H6}
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel, with a wanted and an interfering signal coupled to _SAN
type 1-H_ _TAB connector_ using the parameters in table 7.3.3.2.4.2-1.
The out-of-band blocking requirement apply from 1 MHz to F~UL,low~ -- Δf~OOB~
and from F~UL,high~ + Δf~OOB~ up to 12750 MHz, including the downlink
frequency range of the FDD _operating band_.
Minimum conducted requirement is defined at the _antenna connector_ at the
_TAB connector_ for _SAN type 1-H._
Table 7.3.3.2.4.2-1: Out-of-band blocking performance requirement for NR
* * *
Wanted Signal mean power (dBm) Interfering Signal mean power (dBm) Type of
Interfering Signal
P~REFSENS~ +6 dB\ -44 CW carrier (NOTE)
NOTE: P~REFSENS~ depends on the RAT. For NR, P~REFSENS~ depends also on the
_SAN channel bandwidth_.
* * *
##### 7.3.3.2.5 Receiver spurious emissions
The requirement is not applicable in this version of the specification.
##### 7.3.3.2.6 Receiver intermodulation
The requirement is not applicable in this version of the specification.
##### 7.3.3.2.7 In-channel selectivity
The requirement framework from terrestrial network (TN) NR specification is
agreed to be reused.
#### 7.3.3.3 Radiated receiver characteristics
##### 7.3.3.3.1 OTA sensitivity
On the same principle as for the NR TN BS Specification TS 38.104[16], the SAN
OTA sensitivity testing procedure should be based on SAN manufacturer
declarations of sensitivity direction and EIS level.
##### 7.3.3.3.2 OTA reference sensitivity level
OTA reference sensitivity level is a directional requirement specified as an
EIS level. On the same principle as for the NR TN BS specification
TS38.104[16], the SAN OTA reference sensitivity EIS~REFSENS~ requirements
should be derived from:
\- the conducted reference sensitivity P~REFSENS~ which can be calculated
based on the formula presented in Section 7.3.3.2.1;
\- a hypothetical antenna gain of a passive satellite antenna;
\- some implementation margin reserved for the NTN SAN manufacturer.
The last two contributions are both taken into account under Δ~OTAREFSENS~
parameter.
As OTA reference sensitivity is used as a reference for many of the
interference requirements where it is important that the interferer is
polarization matched to the receiver antenna it is also important that the
wanted signal is polarization matched. Hence OTA reference sensitivity is
specifically declared per polarization and the EIS values are under the
assumption of _polarization match_.
For SAN type 1-O, OTA reference sensitivity is intended to provide equivalent
protection and performance as the conducted reference sensitivity level. The
OTA reference sensitivity level is calculated based on the conducted reference
sensitivity level for SAN type 1-H and antenna gain of a passive antenna which
would be used with a non-AAS SAN in the same deployment scenario.
##### 7.3.3.3.3 OTA dynamic range
The requirement assumes that the wanted signal and interfering signal come
from the same direction. And since both wanted signal and AWGN will be
transmitted from the test equipment in the same direction, the same combining
gain will be achieved for both wanted signal and the AWGN. Hence, the OTA
dynamic range for FR1 can be defined based on conductive requirements plus an
offset, i.e., Δ~OTAREFSENS.~
##### 7.3.3.3.4 OTA in-band selectivity and blocking
##### 7.3.3.3.4.1 OTA adjacent channel selectivity {#ota-adjacent-channel-
selectivity .H6}
OTA Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS) is a measure of the receiver's ability
to receive an OTA wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of an OTA adjacent channel signal with a specified centre frequency
offset of the interfering signal to the band edge of a victim system. For SAN
type 1-O, interfering signal mean power should be offset by the value
Δ~minSENS~, other parameters could be reused from SAN type 1-H and respective
ACS clause.
##### 7.3.3.3.5 OTA out-of-band blocking
##### 7.3.3.3.5.1 General {#general-8 .H6}
The OTA out-of-band blocking characteristics are a measure of the receiver
unit ability to receive a wanted signal at the _RIB_ at its assigned channel
in the presence of an unwanted interferer.
##### 7.3.3.3.5.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-O_ {#minimum-
requirement-for-san-type-1-o-1 .H6}
##### 7.3.3.3.5.2.1 General minimum requirement {#general-minimum-requirement
.H6}
The requirement shall apply at the RIB when the AoA of the incident wave of
the received signal and the interfering signal are from the same direction and
are within the _minSENS RoAoA_.
The wanted signal applies to each supported polarization, under the assumption
of _polarization match._ The interferer shall be _polarization matched_ in-
band and the polarization maintained for out-of-band frequencies.
The values for the minimum requirements have been obtained with the hypothesis
from section 7.3.3.2.4 Out-of-band blocking, considering the maximum EIRP of
SpaceOps (Space Operations) TC (TeleCommand) stations of 80 dBW, and the
interfering signal mean power of -44 dBm, for a LEO satellite at 600 km of
altitude (LEO\@600km).
For OTA wanted and OTA interfering signals provided at the RIB using the
parameters in table 7.3.5.6.2.1-1, the following requirements shall be met:
\- The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel.
For _SAN type 1-O_ the OTA out-of-band blocking requirement apply from 30 MHz
to F~UL,low~ -- Δf~OOB~ and from F~UL,high~ + Δf~OOB~ up to 12750 MHz,
including the downlink frequency range of the FDD _operating band_.
Table 7.3.3.3.5.2.1-1: OTA out-of-band blocking performance requirement
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Wanted signal mean | Interfering signal | Type of interfering | | power (dBm) | RMS field-strength | Signal | | | (V/m) | | +======================+======================+======================+ | EIS~minSENS~ + 6 dB | 0.091 | CW carrier | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: EIS~minSENS~ | | | | depends on the | | | | _channel bandwidth_. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The RMS | | | | field-strength level | | | | in V/m is related to | | | | the interferer EIRP | | | | level at a distance | | | | described as , where | | | | EIRP is in W and r | | | | is in m. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
##### 7.3.3.3.5.2.2 Co-location minimum requirement {#co-location-minimum-
requirement .H6}
This requirement is not applicable in Release 17.
##### 7.3.3.3.6 OTA receiver spurious emissions
The requirement is not applicable in this version of the specification.
##### 7.3.3.3.7 OTA receiver intermodulation
This requirement is not applicable in Release 17.
##### 7.3.3.3.8 OTA in-channel selectivity
For SAN type 1-O, power level of wanted signal and interfering signal should
be offset by the value Δ~minSENS~. Other parameters could be reused from SAN
type 1-H and respective in-channel selectivity (ICS) clause.
### 7.3.4 Others
[To be updated]
## 7.4 NTN UE requirements
### 7.4.1 General
In general, NTN UE products are assumed to meet TN UE requirements as
specified in TS 38.101-1[17]. The structure and content of the NTN UE
specification TS 38.101-5 should be based on TS 38.101-1[17]. The development
of TS 38.101-5 should follow the set of conditions that were agreed at the
RAN#94e meeting in RP-213618[27].
### 7.4.2 UE Transmission characteristics for satellite access
#### 7.4.2.1 General
Unless otherwise stated, the transmitter characteristics are specified at the
antenna connector of the UE with a single or multiple transmit antenna(s). For
UE with integral antenna only, a reference antenna with a gain of 0dBi is
assumed. Handheld PC3 UE is assumed in Release 17 for satellite access.
#### 7.4.2.2 Conducted transmitter characteristics
##### 7.4.2.2.1 Maximum output power
The following UE Power Classes define the maximum output power for any
transmission bandwidth within the channel bandwidth of NR carrier unless
otherwise stated. The period of measurement shall be at least one sub frame
(1ms).
Table 7.4.2.2.1-1: UE Power Class
+-----------------------------------+---------------+----------------+ | NTN satellite band # | Class 3 (dBm) | Tolerance (dB) | +===================================+===============+================+ | n256 | 23 | ±2 | +-----------------------------------+---------------+----------------+ | n255 | 23 | +2 | +-----------------------------------+---------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: P~PowerClass~ is the | | | | maximum UE power specified | | | | without taking into account the | | | | tolerance | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Power class 3 is default | | | | power class unless otherwise | | | | stated | | | +-----------------------------------+---------------+----------------+
##### 7.4.2.2.2 MPR/AMPR
##### 7.4.2.2.2.1 MPR {#mpr .H6}
UE is allowed to reduce the maximum output power (MPR) due to higher order
modulations and transmit bandwidth configurations to meet the general
transmission requirements which includes in-band emission, ACLR, out-of-band
emission and general spurious emission. As it was agreed those general
transmission requirements can be reused from TN, the same requirements
specified in Table 6.2.2-1 in TS 38.101-1 [17] can be reused for NTN
_satellite access UEs._
##### 7.4.2.2.2.2 A-MPR {#a-mpr .H6}
A-MPR is band specific requirement which is used to meet the additional
requirements indicated by network signalling (NS) value.
For n256, based on the regulation conclusion in section 5.2, the A-MPR
requirements for n65 could be as starting point. From TS 38.101-1, since the
maximum carrier centre frequency of NS_05 and NS_05U is lower than 1960 MHz
and the maximum carrier centre frequency of NS_51 is lower than 1980 MHz, it
is proposed NS_05, NS_05U and NS_51 don't need to be considered for n256. The
requirements of NS_01, NS_24 and NS_100 specified in Table 6.2.3.1-1 in TS
38.101-1 [17] for band n65 can be reused for n256
For n255, based on regulatory requirements, a new NS is required. The
following observations were made from the measurement results using an LTE
modem and transceiver supporting 1626.5 -- 1656.5 MHz:
\- For 5 MHz channel, PA emissions for DFT-s-OFDM are below the spurious
emission limits between 1559 and 1606 MHz.
\- For 10 MHz channel, PA emissions for DFT-s-OFDM are exceeding the spurious
emission limits for 1 MHz MBW by 5 dB between 1604 and 1606 MHz.
\- For 15 MHz channel, PA emissions for DFT-s-OFDM are exceeding the spurious
emission limits for 1 MHz MBW by 9 dB between 1599 and 1606 MHz.
\- For 20 MHz channel, PA emissions for DFT-s-OFDM are exceeding the spurious
emission limits by 9 dB between 1584 and 1606 MHz.
\- For 700 Hz MBW, PA emissions for all channel bandwidths are below the
spurious emission limits between 1559 and 1606 MHz.
A n255 duplexer with rejection of more than 10 dB will be a sufficient to
satisfy the spurious emission limits specified in Table 7.4.2.2.8-1.
Based on this measurement observations, the expected filter attenuation of
more than 10 dB below 1610 MHz is going to be adequate to meet the additional
emissions requirements between 1559 -- 1610 MHz, and therefore, no A-MPR needs
to be specified for n255.
In view of the above, the additional requirements with their associated
network signalling values and the allowed A-MPR and applicable operating
band(s) for each NS value shall be specified in Table 7.4.2.2.2.2-1 and the
mapping of NR satellite band numbers and values of the
_additionalSpectrumEmission_ to network signalling labels is specified in
Table 7.4.2.2.2.2-1A.
Table 7.4.2.2.2.2-1: Additional maximum power reduction (A-MPR)
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Network | Requ | NR | Channel | R | A-MPR | | si | irements | s | b | esources | (dB) | | gnalling | (clause) | atellite | andwidth | blocks | | | label | | Band | (MHz) | ( | | | | | | | _N_ ~RB~) | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | NS_01 | | Table | 5, 10, | Table | N/A | | | | 5.2.1-1 | 15, 20 | 5.3.2-1 | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 38.101-1 | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NS_24 | 6. | n256 | 5, 10, | Table | Clause | | | 5.3.3.13 | | 15, 20 | 6. | 6.2.3.7 | | | in TS | | | 2.3.15-1 | in TS | | | 38.101-1 | | | in TS | 38. | | | | | | 38.101-1 | 101-1^2^ | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NS_57N | 6 | n255 | 5, 10, | | N/A | | | .5.3.3.1 | | 15, 20 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NS_100 | 6 | n256^1^ | | | Table | | | .5.2.4.2 | | | | | | | in TS | | | | 6 | | | 38.101-1 | | | | .2.3.1-2 | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 38.101-1 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | This NS | | | | | | | can be | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ignalled | | | | | | | for NTN | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | atellite | | | | | | | bands | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | have | | | | | | | UTRA | | | | | | | services | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | eployed. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | A-MPR | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | upper 5 | | | | | | | MHz is | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | sp | | | | | | | ecified, | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | herefore | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | used as | | | | | | | a guard | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table 7.4.2.2.2.2-1A: Mapping of network signalling label
NTN satellite band Value of additionalSpectrumEmission
* * *
                                                                                                                                    **0**                                 **1**     **2**     **3**   **4**   **5**   **6**   **7**
n256 NS_01 NS_24 NS_100  
n255 NS_01 NS_57N  
NOTE: _additionalSpectrumEmission_ corresponds to an information element of
the same name defined in clause 6.3.2 of TS 38.331.
For n256, FFS for how to protect n2, n25, n70 and whether A-MPR required.
##### 7.4.2.2.3 Output power dynamics
For Transmit OFF power and Power control, the framework and requirements for
existing TN UE can be reused for satellite UE. The transmit OFF power is -50
dBm for 20MHz.
Since handheld UE always transmits the maximum output power for satellite
access scenario based on the NR NTN calibration summary in R4-2115628, FFS
whether relaxed value needed or not based on existing TN UE requirements
##### 7.4.2.2.4 Frequency error
The UE basic measurement interval of modulated carrier frequency is 1 UL slot.
The mean value of basic measurements of UE modulated carrier frequency shall
be accurate to within ± 0.1 PPM observed over a period of 1 ms of cumulated
measurement intervals compared to the carrier frequency received from the
Satellite Access Node.
NOTE: The requirements is applicable only when PVT ephemeris updated at least
once [10] seconds.
##### 7.4.2.2.5 Transmit modulation quality
For the EVM (Error Vector Magnitude), the same requirements specified in TS
38.101-1 [17] sub-clause 6.4.2.1 for QPSK, 16QAM, and 64QAM can be reused for
NTN satellite access UEs. NTN satellite access UEs support UL/DL 64QAM for NTN
operation as optional with per band.
For the carrier leakage, the same requirements specified in TS 3.101-1 [17]
sub-clause 6.4.2.2 can be reused for NTN satellite access UEs.
For the in-band emission, the same requirements specified in TS 3.101-1 [17]
sub-clause 6.4.2.3 can be reused for NTN satellite access UEs.
##### 7.4.2.2.6 Spectrum emission mask
For SEM of NTN satellite access UEs, the same requirements of TN UE specified
in TS 38.101-1 [17] sub-clause 6.5.2.2 can be reused.
##### 7.4.2.2.7 ACLR
For ACLR, the same ACLR for TN NR UE which is specified in TS 3.101-1 [17]
sub-clause 6.5.2.4.1 can be applied for NTN satellite access UEs.
The requirement of ALCR is specified in Table 7.4.2.2.7-1.
Table 7.4.2.2.7-1: NTN satellite access UE ACLR requirement
                Power class 3
* * *
NTN UE ALCR 30dB
##### 7.4.2.2.8 Spurious emissions
The spurious emissions limits specified in TS 38.101-1[17] sub-clause 6.5.3
would also be applicable to NTN satellite access UEs referring to the ERC
Recommendation 74-01[28] Annex 3 item 3.1.4 for Mobile Earth Stations (MES)
(see Note 1bis) transmitting in the Mobile Satellite Service between 1 GHz and
3 GHz.
Considering FCC rule 47 C.F.R § 25.216 (h) [23], TN UE's general spurious
emission requirements will be inadequate for L-band NTN satellite UE operation
in the US. A new NS value and a subclause with Table 7.4.2.2.8-1 needs to be
specified for n255 for NTN satellite operations in the US.
Table 7.4.2.2.8-1: Additional requirements for NS_57N
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Frequency |** Channel | **Measurement |** NOTE**| | band** | bandwidth / | bandwidth**| | | | Spectrum | | | |**(MHz)**| emission | | | | | limit^1^ | | | | | (dBW)** | | | +================+================+================+================+ | | 5 MHz, 10 MHz, | | | | | 15 MHz, 20 MHz | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1559≤ f ≤ 1605 | -80 | 700 Hz | Averaged over | | | | | any 2 | | | | | millisecond | | | | | active | | | | | transmission | | | | | interval | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1605≤ f ≤ 1610 | -80 + 24/5 | 700Hz | | | | (f-1605) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1559 ≤ f ≤ | -70 | 1MHz | Averaged over | | 1605 | | | any 2 | | | | | millisecond | | | | | active | | | | | transmission | | | | | interval | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1605≤ f ≤ 1610 | -70 + 24/5 | 1MHz | | | | (f-1605) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | EIRP | | | | | requirement in | | | | | regulation is | | | | | converted to | | | | | conducted | | | | | requirement | | | | | using a 0 dBi | | | | | antenna. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
##### 7.4.2.2.9 Transmit intermodulation
The transmit intermodulation limits specified in TS 38.101-1[17] sub-clause
6.5.4 (Table 7.4.2.2.9-1) would also be applicable to NTN satellite access
UEs.
The requirement of transmit intermodulation is specified in Table 7.4.2.2.9-1.
Table 7.4.2.2.9-1: Transmit Intermodulation
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Wanted signal | BW~Channel~ | | | | | | | channel bandwidth | | | +======================+======================+======================+ | Interference signal | BW~Channel~ | 2*BW~Channel~ | | | | | | frequency offset | | | | from channel center | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Interference CW | -40 dBc | | | signal level | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Intermodulation | \< -29 dBc | \< -35 dBc | | product | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Measurement | The maximum | | | bandwidth | transmission | | | | bandwidth | | | | configuration among | | | | the different SCS\'s | | | | for the channel BW | | | | as defined in Table | | | | 6.5.2.4.1-1 from TS | | | | 38.101-1[17] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Measurement offset | BW~Channel~ and | 2*BW~Channel~ and | | from channel center | 2*BW~Channel~ | 4*BW~Channel~ | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
##### 7.4.2.2.10 UE to UE coexistence issues between NTN and TN
In recent RAN4#102 and RAN4#103 meetings, the spurious emissions requirements
(-50dBm/MHz) for protected bands UE co-existence (especially for band n256 UL:
1980\~2010MHz DL: 2170\~2200MHz) were widely discussed. The
adjacent/overlapping TN bands to NTN band n256 are shown in Figure 5.2.1-1.
1) Coexistence protection for band n34 DL
The NS_24 including associated A-MPR value as specified in TS 38.101-1[17] is
reused to solve this issue in Release 17. However, other companies pointed out
the n256 UL frequency range can't be leveraged due to 5MHz guard band at the
upper of n256 UL frequency range to protect band n34.If NS_24 is used, n256
will be reduced due to the 5 MHz guard band that has been considered with
NS_24, frequency range 2005-2010 MHz can not be used anymore. Besides, when
NS_24 is indicated to protect the DL frequency range of band n34, satellite UE
has to reduce the out power in band n256. It will lead to UL throughput loss
and even UL radio link failure for some UL RB configurations.
2) Coexistence protection for band n39 DL
-50dBm/MHz co-existence requirement can be met considering 20MHz channel bandwidth for band n256 without A-MPR requirement, even if a band n65 duplexer is reused for band n256.
Based on extrapolating the SEM mask to the ACLR4 region which overlaps n39 for
the lowest n256 20MHz channel it is feasible to specify -50dBm/MHz protection
level for n39 by n256 even when using n65 duplexer (no filter help assumed).
This assumes the maximum n256 bandwidth is 20MHz.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="1.4690234033245844in"}
Figure 7.4.2.2.10-1: Coexistence analysis based on SEM mask extension for band
n256
3) Coexistence protection for band n2, n25, n70 DL
From RAN4 perspective, UE co-existence requirements can't be fulfilled
(-50dBm/MHz) for the TN bands (i.e., n2, n25 and n70) which are overlapping
n256. In Release 17, it is RAN4 understanding that the co-existence issue
between n256 and those TN bands shall rely on regional or national regulation.
**Other proposals:**
Other proposals were submitted to solve the UE to UE coexistence issues
between NTN and TN especially for the protected DL frequency range which is
overlapping with UL frequency range of band n256 or next to the edge of band
n256 UL filter.
For example:
\- Isolation regions could be defined between NTN and TN coverage. And a
corresponding signaling could be designed by RAN2.
\- Before transmitting UL band n256 signals, satellite UE should determine (or
be informed) whether the IMT services exist for the protected DL frequency
range in the vicinity.
\- Other potential mechanisms/solutions are not precluded.
Considering these proposals will have impacts on RAN1/RAN2 specifications,
these proposals were not further discussed in Release 17.
#### 7.4.2.3 "Reserved" (for Radiated transmitter Characteristics)
### 7.4.3 UE Receiver characteristics for satellite access
#### 7.4.3.1 General
Unless otherwise stated the receiver characteristics are specified at the
antenna connector(s) of the UE. For UE(s) with an integral antenna only, a
reference antenna(s) with a gain of 0 dBi is assumed for each antenna port(s).
UE with an integral antenna(s) may be taken into account by converting these
power levels into field strength requirements, assuming a 0 dBi gain antenna.
For UEs with more than one receiver antenna connector, identical interfering
signals shall be applied to each receiver antenna port if more than one of
these is used (diversity).
#### 7.4.3.2 Conducted receiver characteristics
##### 7.4.3.2.1 General and diversity characteristics
Unless otherwise stated the receiver characteristics are specified at the
antenna connector(s) of the UE for satellite access.
The handheld UE for satellite access is required to be equipped with a minimum
of two Rx antenna ports in all NTN satellite operating bands in FR1.
##### 7.4.3.2.2 Reference sensitivity
The reference sensitivity power level REFSENS is the minimum mean power
applied to each one of the UE antenna ports for all UE categories, at which
the throughput shall meet or exceed the requirements for the specified
reference measurement channel. For below 6GHz, the REFSENS level can be
calculated by the equation below in TR 38.817-01[32]:
Sensitivity = -174dBm(kT) + 10*log(RX BW) + NF + SNR +IM -- diversity gain
It is noted that the Rx BW is identical to the transmission bandwidth
configuration, which is determined by the spectrum utilization. The RB values
in the analysis of this contribution are based on the agreed SU for NR.
SNR in Nagoya meeting was agreed as -1dB for NR.
The REFSENS for E-UTRA assumes that the receiver is equipped with two Rx port
as a baseline. If 2Rx is considered, the diversity gain is 3dB and the
Implementation Margin (IM) uses 2.5dB. In the following calculation, same
assumptions are used for NR NTN satellite bands.
For band n255, 9dB noise figure is assumed which is aligned with band n24.
Both dedicate 30MHz duplexer and n65 duplexer are allowed to be used for band
n256. Finally, 9dB noise figure is assumed for band n256 as well.
The throughput shall be ≥ 95 % of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channels as specified in Annexes A.2.2.2 and A.3.2 from TS
38.101-1 [17] (with one sided dynamic OCNG Pattern OP.1 FDD for the DL-signal
as described in Annex A.5.1.1 from TS 38.101-1 [17]) with parameters specified
in Table 7.4.3.2.2-1 and Table 7.4.3.2.2-2.
Table 7.4.3.2.2-1: Two antenna port reference sensitivity QPSK REFSENS
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **Op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | band / | | | | | | | | SCS / | | | | | | | | Channel | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | Duplex | | | | | | | | -mode** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **NTN |** SCS | **5** | **10** | **15** | **20** | * | | sa | kHz**| | | | | *Duplex | | tellite | |** MHz\ | **MHz\ |** MHz\ | **MHz\ | Mode** | | band | | (dBm)**| (dBm)** | (dBm)**| (dBm)** | | | #** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 15 | -100.0 | -96.8 | -95.0 | -93.8 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | n255 | 30 | | -97.1 | -95.1 | -94.0 | FDD | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 60 | | -97.5 | -95.4 | -94.2 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 15 | -100.0 | -96.8 | -95.0 | -93.8 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | n256 | 30 | | -97.1 | -95.1 | -94.0 | FDD | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 60 | | -97.5 | -95.4 | -94.2 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table 7.4.3.2.2-2: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **Op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | band / | | | | | | | | SCS / | | | | | | | | Channel | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | Duplex | | | | | | | | -mode** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **NTN |** SCS | **5** | **10** | **15** | **20** | * | | sa | kHz**| | | | | *Duplex | | tellite | |** MHz\ | **MHz\ |** MHz\ | **MHz\ | Mode** | | band | | (dBm)**| (dBm)** | (dBm)**| (dBm)** | | | #** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 15 | 25 | 50 | 75 | 100 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | n255 | 30 | | 24 | 36 | 50 | FDD | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 60 | | 10 | 18 | 24 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 15 | 25 | 50 | 75 | 100 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | n256 | 30 | | 24 | 36 | 50 | FDD | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 60 | | 10 | 18 | 24 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
##### 7.4.3.2.3 Maximum input level
Maximum input level is defined as the maximum mean power received at the UE
antenna port, at which the specified relative throughput shall meet or exceed
the minimum requirements for the specified reference measurement channel. In
defining requirements for maximum input level, there are two effects should be
considered. One is the dynamic range for Rx link since the maximum input level
would determine the high limit of dynamic range. The other is the maximum
received input power at UE in real deployment. If the maximum received input
signal level is increased, then pre-LNA attenuation is required, which adds
complexity to UE RX chain. Similar as the method in TN system, in order to
evaluate the level of maximum received power, the Min distance for
consideration is given in Table 7.4.3.2.3-1.
Table 7.4.3.2.3-1: Min distance for conderation
                                                      **Satellite Type**
* * *
          **Parameters**
                                                      **GEO**              **LEO 1200**   **LEO 600**
          Carrier frequency \[GHz\]                   2                    2              2
          Min Distance from Satellite D\_Min \[Km\]   35786                1200           600
          The free space path loss (FSPL) (dB)        189.5                160.1          154.0
SET 1 Satellite EIRP density (dBW/MHz) 59 40 34 Bandwidth (15kHz SCS) (MHz) 20  
Rx signal at min Distance (dBm) -87.7 -77.2 -77.2 SET 2 Satellite EIRP density
(dBW/MHz) 53.3 34 28 Bandwidth (15kHz SCS) (MHz) 20  
Rx signal at min Distance (dBm) -93.4 -83.2 -83.2
From above table, the maximum received power is -77.2 dBm for 20 MHz which is
very lower than -25dBm in TN. It is therefore the maximum input level can be
relaxed by 15 dB compared with TN requirement.
##### 7.4.3.2.4 Adjacent channel selectivity
For ACS, the coexistence studies outcome shows that the same ACS values as for
NR TN UE are appropriate, and therefore reused.
ACS test parameters in case 1 is applied. ACS requirements in case 2 can be
specified based on the maximum input level of -40dBm.
##### 7.4.3.2.5 Blocking characteristics
For blocking characteristics, it is agreed, the same requirements as for NR TN
UEs are applicable, and therefore reused. For NR satellite band n255, OOBB
requirements of n24 are reused. For n256, to keep UE implementation freedom
with both options (i.e., reusing n65 duplexer or dedicated 30MHz duplexer) is
agreed. FFS for n256 OOBB requirements if the same hardware of n65 is expected
to be reused.
##### 7.4.3.2.6 Spurious response
Spurious response is a measure of the ability of the receiver to receive a
wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency without exceeding a given
degradation due to the presence of an unwanted CW interfering signal at any
other frequency for which a response is obtained, i.e. for which the out-of-
band blocking limit is not met. To assume the same interfering signals for
guaranteeing TN and NTN UE performance, TN spurious response requirements in
section 7.7 of TS 38.101-1[17] could be applicable to NTN satellite access
UEs.
##### 7.4.3.2.7 Intermodulation characteristics
Intermodulation response rejection is a measure of the capability of the
receiver to receive a wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of two or more interfering signals which have a specific frequency
relationship to the wanted signal. To assume the same interfering signals for
guaranteeing TN and NTN UE performance, TN wide-band intermodulation
parameters in Table 7.8.2-1 of TS 38.101-1[17] could be applicable to NTN
satellite access UEs.
##### 7.4.3.2.8 Rx Spurious emissions
The spurious emissions limits specified in TS 38.101-1[17] sub-clause 7.9
would also be applicable to NTN satellite access UEs referring to the ERC
Recommendation 74-01[28] Annex 3 item 3.1.5 for Mobile Earth Stations (MES)
(see Note 1bis) operating below 3 GHz: receivers, receive only MES and
transmitters in the carrier-off state.
##### 7.4.3.2.9 Void
#### 7.4.3.3 "Reserved" (for Radiated receiver characteristics)
[To be updated]
### 7.4.4 UE antenna characteristics for satellite access
#### 7.4.4.1 Handheld UE antenna characteristics for satellite access
In Release 17, a reference antenna with a gain of 0dBi is assumed for handheld
UE. However, the actual antenna gain can't meet 0dBi in each direction
considering the antenna efficiency which is not 100%. Since all the Tx and Rx
requirements are specified at conduct connector for handheld UE, the actual
antenna characteristic will have no impact on the RF specification for Release
17 handheld UE.
# 8 Conclusion
It is recommended to take due consideration of contents in Chapter 6 and
Chapter 7 when developing Technical Specifications of RF requirements for SAN,
HAPS and UE using NR to support non-terrestrial networks (NTN).
###### ### Annex A: Calibration results of NTN components
## A.1 Calibration assumptions at 2GHz
Assumptions in Section 6.2 are adopted as the baseline for calibration. It
should be noted there are different parts which are listed in Table A.1-1.
Table A.1-1: NTN Assumptions for calibration
Propagation model 38.811[5] considerations Basic path loss Yes
* * *
                                                          Atmospheric loss                    0
                                                          Ionospheric or scintillation loss   0
                                                          O2I / building-entry loss           N/A
NTN SINR SINR statistics target Central beam (UL/DL) Interference Co-channel
interference from 6 adjacent beams BW / #UE 20MHz / 1 DL, 3UL Polarization
gain with 3dB not considered Elevation angle 90 degrees for GEO and LEO HAPS
SINR SINR statistics target 7 cells for DL and UL, HAPS UE is uniformly
distributed in 7 cells Interference Co- channel interference from other 6
cells BW / #UE 20MHz/1DL, 3UL and each UE BW is 0.36MHz Polarization gain with
3dB considered Propagation model 38.811[5] considerations for HAPS Basic path
loss yes Atmospheric loss 0 Ionospheric or scintillation loss 0 O2I /
building-entry loss 0 HAPS power control parameter gamma =1, CL-ile = 121.45
rural vs. urban difference only reflect on the propagation model. Other
assumptions are the same.
## A.2 Calibration results at 2GHz
The calibration results include SINR and coupling loss distributions in DL,
and SINR, coupling loss and transmit power distributions in UL. Both rural and
urban propagation models defined in TR 38.811[5] are considered. For NTN
simulation, HAPS, LEO-600, LEO-1200 and GEO are calibrated and results are
summarized in Table A.2-1, 2-2, 2-3 and 2-4.
NOTE: The "-" means the data was not provided by its corresponding
contributor.
Table A.2-1: Calibration summary for NTN DL Rural cases
Calibration metrics DL Coupling Loss DL Geometry SINR
* * *
CDF percentile \@5% \@50% \@95% \@5% \@50% \@95%  
LEO-600 Samsung 123.60 125.25 126.98 -2.49 -0.41 2.23 Qualcomm 123.69 125.38
127.13 -2.72 -0.72 2.16 CATT 123.59 125.21 127.10 -3.07 -0.84 2.22 THALES
123.75 125.84 127.90 -3.86 -1.40 2.17 Huawei 123.54 125.63 129.16 7.44 10.91
12.97 Xiaomi 123.61 125.15 126.93 -3.01 -0.59 2.02 ZTE 123.66 125.57 127.64
-3.05 -0.22 3.65 Nokia 123.68 125.33 127.05 -3.10 -1.16 0.94 Ericsson - - -
-2.58 6.97 9.95 FhG 123.61 125.37 127.07 -3.48 -1.19 1.36 Variance 0.00 0.04
0.46 10.03 16.13 14.92 Mean 123.64 125.41 127.44 -1.99 1.14 3.97 LEO-1200
Samsung 129.61 131.27 132.99 -2.47 -0.40 2.23 Qualcomm 129.60 131.21 132.91
-2.35 -0.42 2.13 CATT 129.56 131.20 132.86 -2.21 -0.54 2.08 THALES 129.68
131.51 133.28 -2.91 -0.79 2.27 Huawei 129.48 131.28 133.83 1.47 7.62 12.76
Xiaomi 129.68 131.21 132.94 -2.55 -0.70 1.65 ZTE 129.71 131.53 133.31 -2.42
-0.18 3.66 Nokia 129.70 131.36 133.10 -3.09 -1.20 0.94 Ericsson - - - -3.04
6.14 10.22 FhG 129.75 131.30 132.97 -3.36 -1.11 1.20 Variance 0.01 0.01 0.08
1.70 9.31 15.16 Mean 129.64 131.32 133.13 -2.29 0.84 3.91 GEO Samsung 138.15
139.85 141.61 -3.77 -1.79 0.50 Qualcomm 138.11 139.76 141.49 -3.75 -1.97 0.29
CATT 137.97 139.80 141.51 -3.74 -2.08 0.36 THALES 138.23 140.07 141.90 -3.86
-1.85 1.05 Huawei 139.45 140.61 142.00 -1.04 0.26 1.27 Xiaomi 138.54 140.07
141.77 -3.76 -1.94 0.23 ZTE 137.81 140.36 142.92 -3.81 -2.24 -0.02 Nokia
137.95 140.21 142.49 -3.91 -2.06 -0.08 Ericsson - - - -6.62 -0.18 3.60 FhG
138.43 139.99 141.80 -5.18 -2.75 -0.59 Variance 0.21 0.07 0.20 1.72 0.79 1.22
Mean 138.29 140.08 141.94 -3.94 -1.66 0.66 HAPS Nokia 112.15 118.78 142.92
-7.82 10.20 17.05 Qualcomm 114.14 118.70 141.92 -12.54 10.19 18.46 Variance
0.99 0.00 0.25 5.58 0.00 0.50 Mean 113.14 118.74 142.42 -10.18 10.20 17.75
Table A.2-2: Calibration summary for NTN DL Urban cases
Calibration metrics DL Coupling Loss DL Geometry SINR
* * *
CDF percentile \@5% \@50% \@95% \@5% \@50% \@95%  
LEO-600 Samsung 118.57 125.31 132.31 -2.67 -0.50 2.17 Qualcomm 118.56 125.21
132.93 -2.94 -0.84 2.12 CATT 118.94 125.50 132.25 -2.51 -0.35 2.25 THALES
119.00 125.67 132.50 -3.93 -1.50 2.13 Huawei 120.16 125.74 131.63 1.80 9.01
15.14 Xiaomi 119.19 125.45 132.56 -2.69 -0.79 1.57 ZTE 118.90 125.58 132.40
-3.05 -0.61 3.37 Ericsson - - - -3.66 4.92 13.77 Nokia 118.71 125.16 131.68
-3.53 -1.15 2.42 FhG 119.50 125.89 133.01 -11.24 -3.00 3.96 Variance 0.23 0.05
0.20 9.11 11.73 23.37 Mean 119.06 125.50 132.36 -3.44 0.52 4.89 LEO-1200
Samsung 124.61 131.33 138.34 -2.64 -0.50 2.17 Qualcomm 124.35 131.34 138.33
-2.49 -0.50 2.12 CATT 125.02 131.78 137.85 -2.63 -0.37 2.23 THALES 124.60
131.40 138.00 -3.00 -0.88 2.23 Huawei 123.64 131.62 139.59 -4.73 6.35 14.64
Xiaomi 125.02 131.28 138.73 -2.62 -0.77 1.57 ZTE 124.71 131.52 138.22 -2.40
-0.32 3.45 Ericsson - - - -3.67 4.81 14.30 Nokia 123.97 130.42 136.92 -3.58
-1.27 2.28 FhG 125.31 131.45 138.08 -10.40 -2.51 4.21 Variance 0.25 0.13 0.45
5.29 7.18 23.32 Mean 124.58 131.35 138.23 -3.82 0.40 4.92 GEO Samsung 133.18
139.90 146.93 -5.72 -2.09 1.10 Qualcomm 132.93 139.89 146.94 -5.83 -2.21 0.92
CATT 132.50 139.69 146.40 -5.39 -2.16 1.03 THALES 133.30 139.97 146.60 -4.97
-2.16 1.34 Huawei 132.43 138.44 145.29 -5.93 -0.54 6.53 Xiaomi 133.23 139.68
146.97 -5.24 -2.63 -0.56 ZTE 133.72 140.50 146.99 -5.23 -2.51 -0.11 Ericsson -
- - -7.49 -0.59 7.41 FhG 132.74 139.69 146.97 -11.58 -3.57 4.35 Variance 0.17
0.30 0.30 3.86 0.81 7.54 Mean 133.00 139.72 146.64 -6.38 -2.05 2.45 HAPS Nokia
111.39 145.66 164.30 -29.10 -10.47 16.29 Qualcomm 112.00 143.12 159.76 -30.86
-10.70 20.84 Variance 0.09 1.61 5.14 0.77 0.01 5.17 Mean 111.69 144.39 162.03
-29.98 -10.58 18.57
Table A.2-3: Calibration summary for NTN UL Rural cases
Calibration metrics UL Coupling Loss UL Geometry SINR UL UE Tx Power
* * *
CDF percentile \@5% \@50% \@95% \@5% \@50% \@95% \@5% \@50% \@95%  
LEO-600 Samsung 123.60 125.25 126.98 -5.51 -3.07 -0.70 23.00 23.00 23.00
Qualcomm 123.64 125.37 127.14 -5.43 -2.92 -0.42 23.00 23.00 23.00 CATT 123.68
125.47 127.29 -7.22 -1.78 0.42 - - - THALES 123.75 125.84 127.90 -6.16 -3.76
-1.31 23.00 23.00 23.00 Huawei 123.54 125.63 129.16 -5.12 -1.31 0.60 23.00
23.00 23.00 Xiaomi 123.66 125.22 126.92 -5.14 -2.60 0.18 23.00 23.00 23.00 ZTE
123.83 125.65 127.46 -5.45 -3.04 -0.55 23.00 23.00 23.00 Ericsson - - - -14.64
-8.63 -3.87 - - - FhG 123.85 125.27 127.12 -5.98 -3.47 -1.38 23.00 23.00 23.00
Variance 0.01 0.04 0.48 8.19 3.96 1.63 0.00 0.00 0.00 Mean 123.69 125.46
127.50 -6.74 -3.40 -0.78 23.00 23.00 23.00 LEO-1200 Samsung 129.62 131.27
132.99 -9.44 -7.60 -5.83 23.00 23.00 23.00 Qualcomm 129.56 131.18 132.89 -9.40
-7.61 -5.78 23.00 23.00 23.00 CATT 129.72 131.31 132.85 -8.84 -6.97 -5.28 - -
- THALES 129.68 131.51 133.28 -9.46 -7.68 -5.75 23.00 23.00 23.00 Huawei
129.48 131.28 133.83 -9.48 -6.85 -5.18 23.00 23.00 23.00 Xiaomi 129.61 131.23
132.93 -7.97 -6.09 -4.20 23.00 23.00 23.00 ZTE 129.60 131.38 133.25 -9.27
-7.32 -5.63 23.00 23.00 23.00 Ericsson - - - -19.05 -13.42 -9.84 - - - FhG
129.68 131.28 133.06 -9.51 -7.69 -5.98 23.00 23.00 23.00 Variance 0.01 0.01
0.09 9.87 4.03 2.16 0.00 0.00 0.00 Mean 129.62 131.31 133.14 -10.27 -7.91
-5.94 23.00 23.00 23.00 GEO Samsung 138.15 139.85 141.59 -20.31 -18.54 -16.85
23.00 23.00 23.00 Qualcomm 138.06 139.73 141.47 -20.21 -18.47 -16.78 23.00
23.00 23.00 CATT 138.07 139.61 141.26 -19.86 -18.24 -16.70 - - - THALES 138.23
140.07 141.90 -20.37 -18.55 -16.68 23.00 23.00 23.00 Huawei 139.45 140.61
142.00 -17.89 -16.73 -15.61 23.00 23.00 23.00 Xiaomi 138.10 139.59 141.16
-18.98 -17.45 -15.92 23.00 23.00 23.00 ZTE 137.76 140.33 142.91 -18.35 -15.72
-13.37 23.00 23.00 23.00 Ericsson - - - -30.59 -25.37 -21.63 - - - FhG 138.33
139.76 141.56 -20.26 -18.49 -17.06 23.00 23.00 23.00 Variance 0.22 0.12 0.27
12.84 6.56 4.15 0.00 0.00 0.00 Mean 138.27 139.94 141.73 -20.76 -18.62 -16.73
23.00 23.00 23.00 HAPS Nokia 112.20 118.96 143.51 -11.47 10.01 14.49 13.75
20.51 23.00 Qualcomm 114.14 118.70 141.92 -9.93 10.59 14.85 15.69 20.25 23.00
Variance 0.94 0.02 0.64 0.60 0.09 0.03 0.93 0.02 0.00 Mean 113.17 118.83
142.72 -10.70 10.30 14.67 14.72 20.38 23.00
Table A.2-4: Calibration summary for NTN UL Urban cases
Calibration metrics UL Coupling Loss UL Geometry SINR UL UE Tx Power
* * *
CDF percentile \@5% \@50% \@95% \@5% \@50% \@95% \@5% \@50% \@95%  
LEO-600 Samsung 118.58 125.30 132.31 -11.38 -3.64 3.57 23.00 23.00 23.00
Qualcomm 118.71 125.16 132.66 -11.83 -3.91 2.64 23.00 23.00 23.00 CATT 118.41
125.45 132.54 -11.13 -3.89 2.97 - - - THALES 119.00 125.67 132.50 -11.15 -3.92
2.70 23.00 23.00 23.00 Huawei 120.16 125.74 131.63 -11.52 -4.25 1.70 23.00
23.00 23.00 Xiaomi 118.63 125.29 132.62 -11.20 -3.19 4.57 23.00 23.00 23.00
ZTE 118.92 125.71 132.43 -11.19 -3.75 3.56 23.00 23.00 23.00 Ericsson - - -
-17.17 -8.77 0.15 - - - FhG 117.88 125.14 132.15 -11.34 -4.04 3.87 23.00 23.00
23.00 Variance 0.37 0.05 0.10 3.40 2.49 1.52 0.00 0.00 0.00 Mean 118.79 125.43
132.35 -11.99 -4.37 2.86 23.00 23.00 23.00 LEO-1200 Samsung 124.60 131.32
138.32 -15.10 -7.94 -1.13 23.00 23.00 23.00 Qualcomm 124.40 131.30 138.36
-15.23 -8.01 -0.95 23.00 23.00 23.00 CATT 123.95 131.27 137.95 -13.61 -6.83
-0.26 - - - THALES 124.60 131.40 138.00 -14.36 -7.79 -1.27 23.00 23.00 23.00
Huawei 123.64 131.62 139.59 -16.30 -7.25 -0.41 23.00 23.00 23.00 Xiaomi 124.84
131.32 138.61 -13.72 -6.53 0.40 23.00 23.00 23.00 ZTE 124.73 131.47 138.22
-14.30 -7.40 -0.51 23.00 23.00 23.00 Ericsson - - - -21.09 -13.52 -5.47 - - -
FhG 124.30 130.66 137.02 -14.02 -7.35 -0.89 23.00 23.00 23.00 Variance 0.15
0.07 0.45 4.83 3.93 2.55 0.00 0.00 0.00 Mean 124.38 131.30 138.26 -15.30 -8.07
-1.17 23.00 23.00 23.00 GEO Samsung 133.17 139.89 146.92 -25.64 -18.62 -11.90
23.00 23.00 23.00 Qualcomm 132.96 139.86 146.90 -25.69 -18.61 -11.73 23.00
23.00 23.00 CATT 133.28 139.84 147.04 -24.99 -18.36 -11.24 - - - THALES 133.30
139.97 146.60 -25.25 -18.47 -11.80 23.00 23.00 23.00 Huawei 132.43 138.44
145.29 -24.06 -17.38 -11.26 23.00 23.00 23.00 Xiaomi 133.03 139.55 146.75
-24.19 -17.39 -10.63 23.00 23.00 23.00 ZTE 133.58 140.24 146.91 -22.79 -15.32
-8.86 23.00 23.00 23.00 Ericsson - - - -32.17 -25.29 -17.44 - - - FhG 133.46
140.15 147.08 -25.79 -18.93 -12.26 23.00 23.00 23.00 Variance 0.11 0.28 0.30
6.22 6.50 4.73 0.00 0.00 0.00 Mean 133.15 139.74 146.69 -25.62 -18.71 -11.90
23.00 23.00 23.00 HAPS Nokia 111.39 145.66 164.30 -28.44 -10.17 14.88 12.94
23.00 23.00 Qualcomm 111.89 143.11 158.93 -26.02 -8.42 14.90 13.44 23.00 23.00
Variance 0.06 1.62 7.21 1.46 0.76 0.00 0.06 0.00 0.00 Mean 111.64 144.38
161.61 -27.23 -9.29 14.89 13.19 23.00 23.00
###### ### Annex B: Calibration results of TN components
## B.1 Calibration assumptions at 2GHz
Assumptions in Section 6.2 are adopted as the baseline for calibration. It
should be noted there are different parts which are listed in Table B.1-1.
Table B.1-1: TN Assumptions for calibration
Calibration assumptions
* * *
TN AAS Rural Element gain: 7.1 dBi 3dB: H 90 / V 54 Front-back: 30 H/V Array:
8x8 Element spacing: H 0.5/V 0.9 Conducted Tx: 25 dBm Ohmic loss: 2 dB
Mechanical downtilt: 3 deg Polarization gain 3 dB #UE: 1 DL/ 3 UL 100% Outdoor
ISD 7.5 KM Urban Element gain: 6.4 dBi 3dB: H 90 / V 65 Front-back: 30 H/V
Array: 8x8 Element spacing: H 0.5/V 0.7 Conducted Tx: 25 dBm Ohmic loss: 2 dB
Mechanical downtilt: 10 deg Polarization gain 3 dB #UE: 1 DL/ 3 UL 100%
Outdoor ISD 0.75 KM TN non-AAS Antenna gain 17 dBi Conducted Tx 46 dBm 3dB
R4-2108645 Section 2.4.2 Front-back  
Mechanical downtilt Rural 3 / Urban 10
## B.2 Calibration results at 2GHz
The calibration results include SINR and coupling loss distributions in DL,
and SINR, coupling loss and transmit power distributions in UL. Both rural
macro and urban macro propagation models defined in TR 38.901[10] are
considered. NR BS with AAS and non-AAS antennas are calibrated separately and
results are summarized in Table B.2-1, 2-2 and 2-3. NB-IoT scenarios are not
calibrated.
NOTE: The "-" means the data was not provided by its corresponding
contributor.
Table B.2-1: Calibration summary for TN NR AAS DL cases
Calibration metrics DL Coupling Loss DL Geometry SINR
* * *
CDF percentile \@5% \@50% \@95% \@5% \@50% \@95%  
Urban Macro Samsung 60.05 88.58 98.98 8.47 24.01 45.77 Huawei 52.84 85.79
103.53 5.75 22.23 43.40 Qualcomm 57.89 87.11 100.61 5.08 19.51 43.65 Nokia
59.04 87.59 99.32 12.42 20.15 36.50 Ericsson - - - 6.66 19.58 39.57 ZTE 58.76
86.90 99.74 5.63 20.56 45.14 Variance 6.42 0.83 2.69 6.35 2.62 10.70 Mean
57.72 87.19 100.44 7.33 21.01 42.34 Rural Macro Samsung 78.09 116.25 127.96
4.52 16.53 37.71 Huawei 77.53 114.99 128.13 3.02 15.15 31.35 Qualcomm 78.27
116.81 131.58 0.17 12.60 35.83 Nokia 78.55 116.18 127.72 5.60 14.93 28.23
Ericsson - - - 10.03 20.17 37.72 Variance 0.14 0.44 2.51 10.51 6.21 14.21 Mean
78.11 116.06 128.85 4.67 15.87 34.17
Table B.2-2: Calibration summary for TN NR non-AAS DL cases
Calibration metrics DL Coupling Loss DL Geometry SINR
* * *
CDF percentile \@5% \@50% \@95% \@5% \@50% \@95%  
Urban Macro Samsung 73.23 99.36 110.33 -1.76 6.99 14.85 Huawei 70.73 99.50
113.81 -5.02 5.47 14.44 Qualcomm 71.85 99.44 113.47 -4.03 4.52 14.81 ZTE 71.00
99.00 112.09 -2.89 5.24 14.99 THALES 71.84 100.22 112.26 -3.03 4.25 14.40
Variance 0.95 0.04 1.88 1.50 0.81 0.04 Mean 71.73 99.50 112.39 -3.35 5.29
14.70 Rural Macro Samsung 87.82 125.94 138.22 -4.25 5.77 15.42 Huawei 93.87
126.75 141.60 -8.93 1.10 15.33 Qualcomm 89.63 127.43 142.65 -7.37 2.54 15.47
THALES 88.83 127.81 139.57 -5.31 2.57 15.24 Variance 6.43 0.37 3.58 3.78 3.81
0.00 Mean 90.04 126.98 140.51 -6.47 3.00 15.37
Table B.2-3: Calibration summary for TN NR AAS UL cases
Calibration metrics UL Coupling Loss UL Geometry SINR UL UE Tx Power
* * *
CDF percentile \@5% \@50% \@95% \@5% \@50% \@95% \@5% \@50% \@95%  
Urban Macro Samsung 60.00 88.58 99.02 3.42 14.01 14.96 -25.77 2.81 13.25
Huawei 52.84 85.79 103.53 7.53 13.89 14.89 -31.46 4.14 16.51 Qualcomm 62.00
91.09 104.80 1.33 10.10 13.87 -23.77 5.32 19.03 Nokia 59.04 87.59 99.32 10.98
14.55 15.10 -27.23 1.32 13.05 Ericsson - - - 6.83 12.94 15.08 -28.52 -1.70
13.98 ZTE 58.43 87.22 98.46 5.47 13.42 14.81 -27.59 1.20 12.44 Variance 9.37
3.11 6.81 9.41 2.11 0.18 5.61 5.14 5.41 Mean 58.46 88.05 101.03 5.93 13.15
14.78 -27.39 2.18 14.71 Rural Macro Samsung 78.00 116.25 127.95 -4.86 7.03
14.96 -7.77 23.00 23.00 Huawei 77.53 114.99 128.13 -10.84 4.42 14.86 -3.46
23.00 23.00 Qualcomm 82.05 120.47 135.46 -13.41 2.07 14.69 -3.72 23.00 23.00
Nokia 78.42 116.20 127.85 -4.15 7.69 15.17 -7.85 22.99 22.99 Ericsson - - -
3.30 13.55 15.14 -8.00 21.55 23.00 Variance 3.20 4.32 10.50 33.91 14.88 0.03
4.41 0.34 0.00 Mean 79.00 116.98 129.85 -5.99 6.95 14.96 -6.16 22.71 23.00
Table B.2-4: Calibration summary for TN NR non-AAS UL cases
Calibration metrics UL Coupling Loss UL Geometry SINR UL UE Tx Power
* * *
CDF percentile \@5% \@50% \@95% \@5% \@50% \@95% \@5% \@50% \@95%  
Urban Macro Samsung 73.18 99.31 110.33 -10.99 4.31 9.49 -12.59 13.54 23.00
Huawei 70.73 99.50 113.81 -6.46 3.08 8.88 -10.26 18.51 23.00 Qualcomm 71.53
99.51 113.45 -3.52 3.36 8.00 -14.24 13.74 23.00 ZTE 70.11 98.57 111.77 -1.39
3.87 8.01 -16.23 12.57 23.00 THALES 71.84 100.22 112.26 -0.01 4.13 6.80 -14.05
14.90 22.76 Variance 1.32 0.15 1.94 12.98 0.22 0.39 4.79 5.32 0.00 Mean 71.48
99.42 112.32 -4.48 3.75 8.24 -13.47 14.65 22.95 Rural Macro Samsung 87.78
125.93 138.22 -17.23 -3.82 14.65 2.01 23.00 23.00 Huawei 93.87 126.75 141.60
-24.83 -9.72 14.75 12.88 23.00 23.00 Qualcomm 89.53 127.64 142.62 -21.39 -5.65
14.33 3.76 23.00 23.00 THALES 88.83 127.81 139.57 -17.29 -5.16 14.26 3.55
22.42 22.94 Variance 6.55 0.49 3.54 9.66 6.07 0.03 22.71 0.00 0.00 Mean 90.00
127.03 140.50 -20.18 -6.09 14.50 5.55 22.86 22.99
###### ### Annex C: Summary of NR-NTN co-existence study
All NR-NTN co-existence study results have been captured in the list as
attached.
###### ### Annex D: Summary of simulation results for the IoT derivation
In this annex, simulations results used to derive the IoT value were
collected.
[To be updated]
#