# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
This document captures the findings from the study item \"Study on support of
reduced capability NR devices\" [2].
The study includes identification and study of potential UE complexity
reduction techniques and UE power saving and battery lifetime enhancements for
reduced capability UEs in applicable use cases, functionality that will enable
the performance degradation of such complexity reduction to be mitigated or
limited, principles for how to define and constrain such reduced capabilities,
and functionality that will allow devices with reduced capabilities to be
explicitly identifiable to networks and networks operators and allow operators
to restrict their access if desired.
The scope of the study includes support for all FR1/FR2 bands for FDD and TDD
and coexistence with Rel-15/16 UEs. This study focuses on SA mode and single
connectivity. The scope of the study does not include LPWA use cases.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP RP-201677: \"Revised SID on support of reduced capability NR
devices\".
[3] 3GPP R1-2009293: \"FL summary on RedCap evaluation results\".
[4] 3GPP TR 36.888: \"Study on provision of low-cost Machine-Type
Communications (MTC) User Equipments (UEs) based on LTE\".
[5] 3GPP TR 38.830: \"Study on NR coverage enhancements\".
[6] 3GPP TR 38.840: \"Study on User Equipment (UE) power saving in NR\".
[7] 3GPP R1-070674: \"LTE physical layer framework for performance
verification\", Orange, China Mobile, KPN, NTT DoCoMo, Sprint, T-Mobile,
Vodafone, Telecom Italia.
[8] 3GPP R2-2009116: \"Further considerations for eDRX\", MediaTek.
[9] 3GPP R2-2009620: \"RedCap power saving enhancements\", Ericsson.
[10] 3GPP R2-2100459: \"TP for TR 38875 on evaluation for RRM relaxation\",
vivo, Guangdong Genius.
[11] 3GPP R2-2101257: \"RRM measurement relaxation for RedCap UE\", Huawei,
HiSilicon.
[12] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**RedCap UE: For convenience only, a RedCap UE refers to an NR UE with reduced
capabilities with details described herein.**
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Introduction
The usage scenarios that have been identified for 5G are _enhanced mobile
broadband_ (eMBB), _massive machine-type communication_ (mMTC), and _Ultra-
Reliable and Low Latency communication_ (URLLC). Yet another identified area
is _time sensitive communication_ (TSC). In particular, mMTC, URLLC and TSC
are associated with novel IoT use cases that are targeted in vertical
industries. It is envisaged that eMBB, mMTC, URLLC and TSC use cases may all
need to be supported in the same network.
In the 3GPP study on \"_self-evaluation towards IMT-2020 submission_ \" it was
confirmed that NB-IoT and LTE-MTC (a.k.a. eMTC) fulfil the IMT-2020
requirements for mMTC and can be certified as 5G technologies. For URLLC
support, URLLC features were introduced in Release 15 for both LTE and NR, and
NR URLLC is further enhanced in Release 16 within the enhanced URLLC (eURLLC)
and Industrial IoT work items. Rel-16 also introduced support for Time-
Sensitive Networking (TSN) and 5G integration for TSC use cases.
1\. One important objective of 5G is to enable connected industries. 5G
connectivity can serve as catalyst for next wave of industrial transformation
and digitalization, which improve flexibility, enhance productivity and
efficiency, reduce maintenance cost, and improve operational safety. Devices
in such environment include e.g. pressure sensors, humidity sensors,
thermometers, motion sensors, accelerometers, actuators, etc. It is desirable
to connect these sensors and actuators to 5G radio access and core networks.
The massive industrial wireless sensor network (IWSN) use cases and
requirements described in TR 22.804, TS 22.104, TR 22.832 and TS 22.261
include not only URLLC services with very high requirements, but also
relatively low-end services with the requirement of small device form factors,
and/or being completely wireless with a battery life of several years. The
requirements for these services are higher than LPWA (i.e. LTE-MTC/NB-IoT) but
lower than URLLC and eMBB.
2\. Similar to connected industries, 5G connectivity can serve as catalyst for
the next wave smart city innovations. As an example, TR 22.804 describes smart
city use case and requirements for that. The smart city vertical covers data
collection and processing to more efficiently monitor and control city
resources, and to provide services to city residents. Especially, the
deployment of surveillance cameras is an essential part of the smart city but
also of factories and industries.
3\. Finally, wearables use case includes smart watches, rings, eHealth related
devices, and medical monitoring devices etc. One characteristic for the use
case is that the device is small in size.
As a baseline, the requirements for these three use cases are:
Generic requirements:
\- Device complexity: Main motivation for the new device type is to lower the
device cost and complexity as compared to high-end eMBB and URLLC devices of
Rel-15/Rel-16. This is especially the case for industrial sensors.
\- Device size: Requirement for most use cases is that the standard enables a
device design with compact form factor.
\- Deployment scenarios: System should support all FR1/FR2 bands for FDD and
TDD.
Use case specific requirements:
1\. Industrial wireless sensors: Reference use cases and requirements are
described in TR 22.832 and TS 22.104: Communication service availability is
99.99% and end-to-end latency less than 100 ms. The reference bit rate is less
than 2 Mbps (potentially asymmetric e.g. UL heavy traffic) for all use cases
and the device is stationary. The battery should last at least few years. For
safety related sensors, latency requirement is lower, 5-10 ms (TR 22.804)
2\. Video Surveillance: As described in TR 22.804, reference economic video
bitrate would be 2-4 Mbps, latency \ 3
{width="5.885416666666667in" height="0.4479166666666667in"}
where \'_K_ \' denotes the number of source companies that simulated a same
observation configuration (e.g. \'_N_ =2\' in Table B.1-1) after excluding the
smallest and largest value.
\- Step-3: Reuse the same approach to derive the _Average_b_N_ for Case 2 and
Case 3 with approximately 25% and 50% BD reduction (see Annex B).
\- Step-4: Determine the absolute increase and relative increase as follows:
_\- X_N_ % = [_Average_b_N_ \- _Average_a_N_].
_\- Y_N_ % = [(_Average_b_N_ \- _Average_a_N)/ Average_a_N_ ]
\- Step-5: Capture the PDCCH blocking rate impact based on the following
template:
\- For FR1 with AL distribution configuration A1 in Table 6.2-5 with \'_N_ \'
simultaneously scheduled UE in a slot, it was observed that the PDCCH blocking
rate is increased _X_N_ % from [_Average_a_N_] which corresponds to _Y_N_ %
increase relative to [_Average_a_N]._
## 6.3 Evaluation methodology for coverage recovery
Coverage recovery evaluation is based on link budget evaluations.
The channels and messages used in link budget evaluations include PDCCH,
PDSCH, PUCCH, and PUSCH. The initial access related channels, such as PBCH,
PRACH, Msg2, Msg3, Msg4 and PDCCH scheduling Msg2/4 are also included.
The impact of small form factor is considered for all the uplink and downlink
channels. To reflect such an impact, a 3dB loss of antenna gain is included in
link budget calculation for the FR1 bands.
The assumptions in the Rel-17 Coverage Enhancement SI regarding link budget
template and antenna array gain are reused [5]. Furthermore, the Rel-17
Coverage Enhancement SI assumptions on gNB antenna configuration, # gNB Tx and
Rx chains, channel model and delay spread are reused, with the revision or
addition shown in Table 6.3-1.
Table 6.3-1: Assumptions used for coverage recovery evaluation
+---------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | **Parameters** | **FR1 values** | **FR2 values** | +=====================+================+=================+ | Channel model | TDL-C | TDL-A | | | | | | | | CDL-A(optional) | +---------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | Delay spread | 300ns | 30ns | +---------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | UE velocity | 3 km/h | 3 km/h | +---------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | Antenna correlation | Low | Low | +---------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | # gNB Tx chains | 2 or 4 | 2 | +---------------------+----------------+-----------------+ | # gNB Rx chains | 2 or 4 | 2 | +---------------------+----------------+-----------------+
For coverage evaluation, the assumptions for the reference NR UEs and RedCap
UEs are shown in Table 6.3-2 and 6.3-3, respectively.
Table 6.3-2: Assumptions for reference NR UE
+-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | **Parameters** | **FR1 values** | **FR2 values** | +=================+========================+========================+ | # UE Tx chains | 1 | 1 | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | # UE Rx chains | Urban: 4 and Rural: 2 | 2 | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | UE bandwidth | Urban: 100 MHz (273 | 100 MHz (66 PRBs, 120 | | | PRBs, 30 kHz SCS) | kHz SCS) | | | | | | | Rural: 20 MHz (106 | | | | PRBs, 15 kHz SCS) | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+
Table 6.3-3: Assumptions for RedCap UE
+-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | **Parameters** | **FR1 values** | **FR2 values** | +=================+========================+========================+ | # UE Tx chains | 1 | 1 | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | # UE Rx chains | 1 or 2 | 1 or 2 | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | UE bandwidth | Urban: 20 MHz (51 | 50 MHz (32 PRBs, 120 | | | PRBs, 30 kHz SCS) | kHz SCS) or | | | | | | | Rural: 20 MHz (106 | 100 MHz (66 PRBs, 120 | | | PRBs, 15 kHz SCS) | kHz SCS) | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+
The assumptions for channel specific parameters are also based on reusing the
Rel-17 Coverage Enhancement SI agreements [5], with the revision or addition
described below.
The target data rates for RedCap UEs are:
\- FR1 Rural: 1 Mbps on DL and 100kbps in UL
\- FR1 Urban: 2 Mbps on DL and 1Mbps in UL (Note: The 2Mbps target data rate
in downlink is the scaled value of the 10Mbps in the Rel-17 Coverage
Enhancement SI by a factor of 0.2)
\- FR2: 25Mbps on DL and 5 Mbps in UL (for bandwidth options 50MHz and 100MHz)
The TBS, PRB, and MCS of PDSCH (except for Msg2) and PUSCH for the RedCap UE
are based on the agreed target data rates or message sizes and reported by
sourcing companies. For Msg2, the assumptions listed in Table 6.3-4 were
adopted.
Table 6.3-4: Assumptions for Msg2
**Parameters** **Values**
* * *
PRBs/TBS/MCS MCS is fixed to zero. Companies to report the used number of PRBs
and corresponding TBS value PDSCH duration 12 OS DMRS configuration Type 1, 3
DMRS symbol, no multiplexing with data Waveform CP-OFDM HARQ configuration No
retransmission
> Note: the TBS scaling is not precluded in the table entry \"PRBs/TBS/MCS\"
For the channel(s) affected by complexity reduction, the following methodology
is used to determine the target performance for coverage recovery
\- Step 1: Obtain the link budget performance of the channel based on link
budget evaluation
\- Step 2: Obtain the target performance requirement for RedCap UEs within a
deployment scenario
\- Step 3: Find the coverage recovery value for the channel if the link budget
performance is worse than the target performance requirement
For step 2, the study considered two options for determining the target
performance for coverage recovery.
\- Option 1: The target performance requirement for each channel is identified
by a target MPL within a reasonable deployment.
\- Option 3: The target performance requirement for each channel is identified
by the link budget of the bottleneck channel(s) for the reference NR UE within
the same deployment scenario. The \"bottleneck channel(s)\" are the physical
channel(s) that have the lowest MIL.
Eventually, the adopted methodology is based on Option 3 and a single coverage
recovery target based on the same bottleneck channel is used for initial
access channels and non-initial access channels of RedCap UE. The coverage
recovery target for each channel of RedCap UE corresponds to the link budget
of the bottleneck channel(s) for the reference NR UE within the same
deployment scenario, where the reference UE is a Rel-15/16 NR UE with
mandatory features only. Each sourcing company reports sourcing-company-
specific observations of the amount of compensation for each channel by
comparing the link budget with that of the bottleneck channel for the
reference NR UE, where the amount of compensation for each channel is the
difference between the link budget of the channel for RedCap UE and the link
budget of the bottleneck channel for the reference UE. A representative value
of the amount of compensation is derived by taking the mean value (in dB
domain) from the compensation values from all sourcing companies, including
both negative and non-negative values based on the following adjustments.
\- Excluding the highest & the lowest values when the number of samples is
more than 3.
\- If the number of samples used to compute a representative value is less
than 4 for each scenario, this representative value is not used for bottleneck
identification.
The representative value of a channel is used for identifying whether the
channel needs coverage recovery, and coverage recovery is not needed if the
representative value of a channel is larger than or equal to zero.
## 6.4 Evaluation methodology for network capacity and spectral efficiency
For the evaluations of the impact to network capacity and spectral efficiency,
system-level simulation (SLS) have been used and the assumptions in TR 38.802,
Table A.2.1-1 are used as the baseline. Additionally, the scenarios and
assumptions described in the table below were agreed for alignment purpose.
The same assumptions were adopted by some sourcing companies for SLS.
Table 6.4-1: Assumptions for alignment purpose for system-level simulation
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Parameters** | **FR1 values** | **FR2 values** | +======================+======================+======================+ | Layout | Single layer\ | Single layer | | | Macro layer: Hex. | | | | Grid | Indoor floor: (12BSs | | | | per 120m x 50m) | | | | | | | | Candidate TRP | | | | numbers: 3, 6, 12 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Inter-BS distance | 500m | 20m | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Scenario and | Dense Urban: | Indoor: 28 GHz (TDD) | | frequency | | | | | 2.6 GHz (TDD) | | | | (primary choice) | | | | | | | | 4 GHz (TDD) | | | | (secondary choice) | | | | | | | | Other scenarios | | | | (e.g. Rural 700MHz) | | | | are not precluded. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Frame structure for | For 2.6 GHz: | DDDSU (S: 10D:2G:2U) | | TDD | | | | | DDDDDDDSUU (S: | | | | 6D:4G:4U) | | | | | | | | For 4 GHz: | | | | | | | | DDDSUDDSUU (S: | | | | 10D:2G:2U) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel model | 3D-UMa | 5GCM office | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE distribution | 20% Outdoor in cars: | 100% Indoor: 3km/h | | | 30km/h,\ | | | | 80% Indoor in | | | | houses: 3km/h | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Traffic model | Full buffer | | | | (Optional) | | | | | | | | Non-full buffer | | | | traffic, e.g. FTP | | | | traffic model 3 for | | | | the reference NR UEs | | | | and the IM traffic | | | | model from TR 38.840 | | | | [6] for RedCap UEs | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Traffic load | Full buffer traffic | | | | (Optional): | | | | | | | | 10 users per cell | | | | including both | | | | RedCap and reference | | | | NR UEs | | | | | | | | Non-full buffer | | | | traffic: | | | | | | | | Low (e.g. \1) in connected
mode:**
In Rel-15/16 NR, the range of PDCCH monitoring periodicity is configurable,
which is in a range of a few symbol (s) to 2560 slots subject to UE
capability. Scheme#2 is to extend the minimum separation between two
consecutive PDCCH monitoring occasions, spans or slots with configured PDCCH
candidates to be X slots, where X>1\.
**Scheme #3: Dynamic adaptation of PDCCH BD parameters in connected mode:**
In Rel-15/16, the parameters of PDCCH monitoring is configured by RRC
signalling on a per search space set basis. Scheme #3 is to dynamically adapt
PDCCH BD parameters e.g. maximum number of PDCCH candidates per PDCCH
monitoring occasion and minimum time separation between two consecutive PDCCH
monitoring occasions
### 8.2.2 Analysis of UE power saving
**UE power saving for FR1:**
The UE power saving evaluation results for FR1 from [3] are summarized in
Tables A.1-1 through A.1-4 in Annex A.1.
12 sources (Vivo, Ericsson, Qualcomm, CATT, Spreadtrum, Oppo,
Huawei/HiSilicon, Apple, Futurewei, Intel, ZTE, InterDigital) reported the
evaluation results of power saving gain for FR1 with same-slot scheduling for
the 1 Rx antenna case. The following is observed for the 1 Rx antenna case:
\- For the instant message traffic model, with reducing maximum PDCCH blind
decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and 50%, the power saving gains are in the range of
approximately {0.32%\~5.7%} and {0.59%\~11.4%}, respectively. With excluding
the smallest and the largest values among sources, the mean value of power
saving gain with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and
50% are approximately 2.81% and 5.82%, respectively.
\- For the heartbeat traffic model with 200ms inactivity timer configuration,
with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and 50%, the power
saving gains are in the range of approximately {0.01%\~3.40%} and
{0.02%\~6.80%}, respectively. With excluding the smallest and the largest
values among sources, the mean value of power saving gain by reducing maximum
PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and 50% are approximately 1.56% and
3.25%, respectively.
\- For the heartbeat traffic model with 80ms inactivity timer configuration,
with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and 50%, the power
saving gains are in the range of approximately {0.01%\~3.20%} and
{0.02%\~6.40%}, respectively. With excluding the smallest and the largest
values among sources, the mean value of power saving gain with reducing
maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and 50% are approximately 1.33%
and 2.92%, respectively.
\- For the VoIP traffic model, with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding
(i.e. 36) by 25% and 50%, the power saving gains are in the range of
approximately {0.90%\~3.88%} and {1.82%\~6.48%}, respectively. With excluding
the smallest and the largest values among sources, the mean value of power
saving gain with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and
50% are approximately 2.59% and 4.74%, respectively.
13 sources (Vivo, Ericsson, Qualcomm, Nokia, CATT, Spreadtrum, Oppo,
Huawei/HiSilicon, Apple, Futurewei, Intel, ZTE, InterDigital) reported the
evaluation results of power saving gain for FR1 with same-slot scheduling for
2 Rx antennas cases. The following is observed for the 2 Rx antennas case:
\- For the instant message traffic model, with reducing maximum PDCCH blind
decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and 50%, the power saving gains are in the range of
approximately {0.44%\~6.20%} and {0.82%\~12.30%}, respectively. With excluding
the smallest and the largest values among sources, the mean value of power
saving gain with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and
50% are approximately 3.05% and 6.59%.
\- For the heartbeat traffic model with 200ms inactivity timer configuration,
with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and 50%, the power
saving gains are in the range of approximately {0.01%\~4.10%} and
{0.03%\~8.20%}, respectively. With excluding the smallest and the largest
values among sources, the mean value of power saving gain with reducing
maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and 50% are approximately 1.65%
and 3.72%, respectively.
\- For the heartbeat traffic model with 80ms inactivity timer configuration
maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and 50%, the power saving gains
are in the range of approximately {0.01%\~3.90%} and {0.02%\~7.80%},
respectively. With excluding the smallest and the largest values among
sources, the mean value of power saving gain with reducing maximum PDCCH blind
decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and 50% are approximately 1.49% and 3.42%,
respectively.
\- For the VoIP traffic model, with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding
(i.e. 36) by 25% and 50%, the power saving gains are in the range of
approximately {1.16%\~4.60%} and {2.32%\~7.20%}. With excluding the smallest
and the largest values among sources, the mean value of power saving gain with
reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and 50% are
approximately 2.85% and 5.66%, respectively.
**8 sources (Vivo, Ericsson, Samsung, Qualcomm, Oppo, Apple, ZTE, MediaTek)
reported the evaluation results of power saving gain for FR1 with cross-slot
scheduling for the 1 Rx antenna and 2 Rx antennas cases.** The following is
observed for the 1 Rx antenna case:
\- For the instant message traffic model, with reducing maximum PDCCH blind
decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and 50%, the power saving gains are in the range of
approximately {0.30%\~4.5%} and {0.36%\~9%}, respectively. With excluding the
smallest and the largest values among sources, the mean value of power saving
gain with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and 50% are
approximately 2.58% and 4.26%, respectively.
\- For the heartbeat traffic model with 200ms inactivity timer configuration,
with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and 50%, the power
saving gains are in the range of approximately {0.01%\~2.7%} and
{0.01%\~5.5%}, respectively. With excluding the smallest and the largest
values among sources, the mean value of power saving gain with reducing 36
PDCCH blind decoding by 25% and 50% are approximately 1.66% and 2.48%,
respectively.
\- For the heartbeat traffic model with 80ms inactivity timer configuration,
with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and 50%, the power
saving gains are in the range of approximately {0.01%\~2.6%} and
{0.01%\~5.1%}, respectively. With excluding the smallest and the largest
values among sources, the mean value of power saving gain with reducing
maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and 50% are approximately 1.60%
and 2.34%, respectively.
\- For the VoIP traffic model, with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding
(i.e. 36) by 25% and 50%, the power saving gains are in the range of
approximately {0.87%\~4.5%} and {1.39%\~7%}, respectively. With excluding the
smallest and the largest values among sources, the mean value of power saving
gain with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and 50% are
approximately 2.29% and 3.20%, respectively.
For the 2 Rx case (with cross-slot scheduling), the observations are as
follows:
\- For the instant message traffic model, with reducing maximum PDCCH blind
decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and 50%, the power saving gains are in the range of
approximately {0.36%\~4.69%} and {0.67%\~9.38%}, respectively. With excluding
the smallest and the largest values among sources, the mean value of power
saving gain with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and
50% are approximately 3.08% and 5.7%, respectively.
\- For the heartbeat traffic model with 200ms inactivity timer configuration,
with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and 50%, the power
saving gains are in the range of approximately {0.01%\~2.9%} and
{0.02%\~5.7%}, respectively. With excluding the smallest and the largest
values among sources, the mean value of power saving gain with reducing
maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and 50% are approximately 1.95%
and 3.51%, respectively.
\- For the heartbeat traffic model with 80ms inactivity timer configuration,
with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and 50%, the power
saving gains are in the range of approximately {0.01%\~2.5%} and
{0.02%\~4.94%}, respectively. With excluding the smallest and the largest
values among sources, the mean value of power saving gain with reducing
maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and 50% are approximately 1.69%
and 3.21%, respectively.
\- For the VoIP traffic model, with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding
(i.e. 36) by 25% and 50%, the power saving gains are in the range of
approximately {0.83%\~3.5%} and {1.65%\~6.07%}, respectively. With excluding
the smallest and the largest values among sources, the mean value of power
saving gain with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 36) by 25% and
50% are approximately 2.28% and 4.45%, respectively.
In general, it is expected that the power saving gain by BD reduction for
cross-slot scheduling is less than that of the same-slot scheduling. Also, in
general, it is expected that the power saving gain by BD reduction for 1 Rx
case is less than that of the 2 Rx case.
**UE power saving for FR2:**
The UE power saving evaluation results for FR2 from [3] are summarized in
Tables A.2-1 through A.2-4 in Annex A.2.
6 sources (Ericsson, CATT, Spreadtrum, Futurewei, Intel, ZTE) reported the
evaluation results of power saving gain for FR2 with same-slot scheduling for
the 1 Rx antenna and 2 Rx antennas cases. The following is observed for the 1
Rx antenna case:
\- For the instant message traffic model, with reducing maximum PDCCH blind
decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and 50%, the power saving gains are in the range of
approximately {0.77%\~6.6%} and {1.43%\~13.1%}, respectively. With excluding
the smallest and the largest values among sources, the mean value of power
saving gain with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and
50% are approximately 4.20% and 8.60%, respectively.
\- For the heartbeat traffic model with 200ms inactivity timer configuration,
with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and 50%, the power
saving gains are in the range of approximately {0.03%\~4.30%} and
{0.06%\~8.60%}, respectively. With excluding the smallest and the largest
values among sources, the mean value of power saving gain by reducing maximum
PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and 50% are approximately 1.72% and
3.69%, respectively.
\- For the heartbeat traffic model with 80ms inactivity timer configuration,
with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and 50%, the power
saving gains are in the range of approximately {0.03%\~4%} and {0.05%\~7.9%},
respectively. With excluding the smallest and the largest values among
sources, the mean value of power saving gain with reducing maximum PDCCH blind
decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and 50% are approximately 1.28% and 2.58%,
respectively.
\- For the VoIP traffic model, with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding
(i.e. 20) by 25% and 50%, the power saving gains are in the range of
approximately {2.52%\~5%} and {4.66%\~9.4%}, respectively. With excluding the
smallest and the largest values among sources, the mean value of power saving
gain with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and 50% are
approximately 3.81% and 7.43%, respectively.
For the 2 Rx case (with same-slot scheduling), the observations are as
follows:
\- For the instant message traffic model, with reducing maximum PDCCH blind
decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and 50%, the power saving gains are in the range of
approximately {1.04%\~6.8%} and {1.92%\~13.6%}, respectively. With excluding
the smallest and the largest values among sources, the mean value of power
saving gain with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and
50% are approximately 4.52% and 8.98%, respectively.
\- For the heartbeat traffic model with 200ms inactivity timer configuration,
with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and 50%, the power
saving gains are in the range of approximately {0.04%\~4.90%} and
{0.08%\~11.90%}, respectively. With excluding the smallest and the largest
values among sources, the mean value of power saving gain by reducing maximum
PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and 50% are approximately 2.13% and
4.14%, respectively.
\- For the heartbeat traffic model with 80ms inactivity timer configuration,
with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and 50%, the power
saving gains are in the range of approximately {0.04%\~4.6%} and
{0.07%\~9.2%}, respectively. With excluding the smallest and the largest
values among sources, the mean value of power saving gain with reducing
maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and 50% are approximately 1.99%
and 3.88%, respectively.
\- For the VoIP traffic model, with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding
(i.e. 20) by 25% and 50%, the power saving gains are in the range of
approximately {3.10%\~5.5%} and {5.74%\~10.5%}, respectively. With excluding
the smallest and the largest values among sources, the mean value of power
saving gain with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and
50% are approximately 4.27% and 8.27%, respectively.
4 sources (Ericsson, Samsung, ZTE, MediaTek) reported the evaluation results
of power saving gain for FR2 with cross-slot scheduling for the 1 Rx antenna
and 2 Rx antennas cases. The following is observed for the 1 Rx antenna case:
\- For the instant message traffic model, with reducing maximum PDCCH blind
decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and 50%, the power saving gains are in the range of
approximately {0.55%\~6.30%} and {1.03%\~12.7%}, respectively. With excluding
the smallest and the largest values among sources, the mean value of power
saving gain with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and
50% are approximately 3.19% and 6.17%, respectively.
\- For the heartbeat traffic model with 200ms inactivity timer configuration,
with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and 50%, the power
saving gains are in the range of approximately {0.02%\~4.20%} and
{0.04%\~8.30%}, respectively. With excluding the smallest and the largest
values among sources, the mean value of power saving gain by reducing maximum
PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and 50% are approximately 1.30% and
2.60%, respectively.
\- For the heartbeat traffic model with 80ms inactivity timer configuration,
with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and 50%, the power
saving gains are in the range of approximately {0.02%\~3.9%} and
{0.04%\~7.6%}, respectively. With excluding the smallest and the largest
values among sources, the mean value of power saving gain with reducing
maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and 50% are approximately 1.24%
and 2.48%, respectively.
\- For the VoIP traffic model, with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding
(i.e. 20) by 25% and 50%, the power saving gains are in the range of
approximately {1.94%\~6.5%} and {3.6%\~13.1%}, respectively. With excluding
the smallest and the largest values among sources, the mean value of power
saving gain with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and
50% are approximately 3.27% and 6.33%, respectively.
For the 2 Rx case (with cross-slot scheduling), the observations are as
follows:
\- For the instant message traffic model, with reducing maximum PDCCH blind
decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and 50%, the power saving gains are in the range of
approximately {0.75%\~6.6%} and {1.4%\~13.20%}, respectively. With excluding
the smallest and the largest values among sources, the mean value of power
saving gain with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and
50% are approximately 3.43% and 6.59%, respectively.
\- For the heartbeat traffic model with 200ms inactivity timer configuration,
with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and 50%, the power
saving gains are in the range of approximately {0.03%\~4.90%} and
{0.06%\~9.60%}, respectively. With excluding the smallest and the largest
values among sources, the mean value of power saving gain by reducing maximum
PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and 50% are approximately 1.05% and
2.11%, respectively.
\- For the heartbeat traffic model with 80ms inactivity timer configuration,
with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and 50%, the power
saving gains are in the range of approximately {0.03%\~4.6%} and
{0.05%\~8.9%}, respectively. With excluding the smallest and the largest
values among sources, the mean value of power saving gain with reducing
maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and 50% are approximately 0.92%
and 1.84%, respectively.
\- For the VoIP traffic model, with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding
(i.e. 20) by 25% and 50%, the power saving gains are in the range of
approximately {1.97%\~6.8%} and {3.95%\~13.7%}, respectively. With excluding
the smallest and the largest values among sources, the mean value of power
saving gain with reducing maximum PDCCH blind decoding (i.e. 20) by 25% and
50% are approximately 3.38% and 6.52%, respectively.
In general, it is expected that the power saving gain by BD reduction for
cross-slot scheduling is less than that of the same-slot scheduling. Also, in
general, it is expected that the power saving gain by BD reduction for 1 Rx
case is less than that of the 2 Rx case.
### 8.2.3 Analysis of performance impacts
**PDCCH blocking rate vector format:**
Each observation below for PDCCH blocking rate impact based on the evaluation
results in [3] is formulated using the vector format: _\ _, which represents the following: With _N_
simultaneously scheduled UEs in a slot and _z1%_ reduction in maximum PDCCH
blind decoding, the PDCCH blocking rate is increased approximately _x1%_ from
_A%_ , which corresponds to _y1%_ increase relative to _A%._ With _N_
simultaneously scheduled UEs in a slot and _z2%_ reduction in maximum PDCCH
blind decoding, the PDCCH blocking rate is increased approximately _x2%_ from
_A%_ , which corresponds to _y2%_ increase relative to _A%_.
**PDCCH blocking rate for FR1:**
Evaluation results of PDCCH blocking rate were reported for FR1 with AL
distribution configuration \'A1\' in Table 6.2-5 and the baseline evaluation
parameters in Table 6.2-4. Based on Table B.1-1, the observations from these
evaluation results are summarized as follows:
\- 10 sources (Vivo, Ericsson, Qualcomm, Nokia, Huawei/HiSilicon,
InterDigital, Intel, ZTE, Samsung, Futurewei) reported the following
evaluation results:
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
Evaluation results of PDCCH blocking rate were reported for FR1 with
configuration \'A2\' in Table 6.2-5 and the baseline evaluation parameters in
Table 6.2-4. Based on Table B.1-2, the observations from these evaluation
results are summarized as follows:
\- 5 sources (Ericsson, Qualcomm, Nokia, ZTE, Samsung) reported the following
evaluation results:
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- 3 sources (Qualcomm, Nokia Samsung) reported the following evaluation
results:
\- \
\- \
\- 3 sources (Qualcomm, ZTE Samsung) reported the following evaluation
results:
\- \
\- 2 sources (Qualcomm, Samsung) reported the following evaluation results:
\- \
\- \
Evaluation results of PDCCH blocking rate were reported for FR1 with
configuration \'A3\' in Table 6.2-5 and the baseline evaluation parameters in
Table 6.2-4. Based on Table B.1-3, the observations from these evaluation
results are summarized as follows:
\- 3 sources (Qualcomm, Samsung), ZTE or Ericsson) reported the following
evaluation results:
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- 2 sources (Qualcomm, Samsung) reported the following evaluation results:
\- \
\- 4 sources (Qualcomm, Samsung), ZTE, Ericsson) reported the following
evaluation results:
\- \
\- 2 sources (Qualcomm, Samsung) reported the following evaluation results:
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- 2 sources (Qualcomm, ZTE) reported the following evaluation results:
\- \
1 source (Huawei/HiSilicon) reported the following evaluation results of PDCCH
blocking rate for FR1 with baseline evaluation parameters in Table 6.2-4 and
configuration \'A4\' in Table 6.2-5 (the results are available in Table
B.1-4):
\- \
\- \
1 source ([Panasonic]) reported the following evaluation results of PDCCH
blocking rate for FR1 with baseline evaluation parameters in Table 6.2-4 and
configuration \'A7\' in Table 6.2-5 (the results are available in Table
B.1-4):
\- \
\- \
1 source (Vivo) reported the evaluation results of PDCCH blocking rate for FR1
with configuration \'A1\' in Table 6.2-5 and the baseline evaluation
parameters in Table 6.2-4 except 15kHz SCS and 20MHz (the results are
available in Table B.1-5).
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
Evaluation results of PDCCH blocking rate were reported for FR1 with
configuration \'A1\' in Table 6.2-5 and the baseline evaluation parameters in
Table 6.2-4 except the following: 15kHz SCS/20 MHz BW and 3-symbols CORESET
duration. Based on Table B.1-6, the observations from these evaluation results
are summarized as follows:
\- 3 sources (Vivo, Nokia, Intel) reported the following evaluation results:
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- 1 source (Nokia) reported the following evaluation results with using C2 in
Table 6.2-6 as number of PDCCH candidates for AL [1,2,4,8,16]
\- \
\- \
\- 2 sources (Nokia, Intel) reported the evaluation result:
\- \
\- 1 source (Intel) reported the following evaluation results with using C10
in Table 6.2-6 as number of PDCCH candidates for AL [1,2,4,8,16]:
\- \
\- \
1 source (ZTE) reported the evaluation results of PDCCH blocking rate for FR1
with configuration A1/A2/A3 in Table 6.2-5 and baseline evaluation parameters
in Table 6.2-4 except the following parameters: 15kHz SCS/20 MHz BW and 1/2/3
slots delay tolerance. The results are available in Table B.1-7.
\- The following was observed for AL distribution configuration \'A1\' with 1
slot delay tolerance:
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- The following was observed for AL distribution configuration \'A1\' with 2
slots delay tolerance:
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- The following was observed for AL distribution configuration \'A1\' with 3
slots delay tolerance:
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- The following was observed for AL distribution configuration \'A2\':
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- The following was observed for AL distribution configuration \'A3\':
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
1 source (Vivo) reported the evaluation results of PDCCH blocking rate for FR1
with configuration A1 in Table 6.2-5 and baseline evaluation parameters in
Table 6.2-4 except 3-symbols CORESET duration is assumed. From Table B.1-8,
the following was observed:
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
1 source (Huawei/HiSilicon) reported the evaluation results of PDCCH blocking
rate for FR1 with configuration A1/A4/A5/A6 in Table 6.2-5 and baseline
evaluation parameters in Table 6.2-4 except 60-bits DCI payload size (not
including CRC) is assumed for A5 and A6. The following was observed with 50%
BD reduction by reducing the monitored DCI sizes from 2 to 1:
\- For configuration A1(results in Table B.1-1 with \"Note 4\"):
\- \,
\- \
\- For configuration A4 (results in Table B.1-4 with \"Note 4\"):
\- \,
\- \
\- For configuration A5 (results in Table B.1-9 with \"Note 1\"):
\- \,
\- \
\- For configuration A6 (results in Table B.1-9 with \"Note 1\"):
\- \,
\- \
1 source (Samsung) reported the evaluation results of PDCCH blocking rate for
FR1 with configuration A1/A2/A3 in Table 6.2-5 and baseline evaluation
parameters in Table 6.2-4 with UE group scheduling and PDCCH dropping based on
predefined CCE AL priority order.
\- The following was observed for configuration A1:
\- With UE group scheduling (results in Table B.1-1 with \"Note 6\"):
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \
\- With PDCCH dropping based on predefined CCE AL priority order [1,2,4,8,16]
(results in Table B.1-1 with \"Note 7\"):
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \
\- \
\- The following was observed for configuration A2:
\- With UE group scheduling (results in Table B.1-2 with \"Note 6\"):
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \
\- With PDCCH dropping based on predefined CCE AL priority order [1,2,4,8,16]
(results in Table B.1-2 with \"Note 7\"):
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \
\- \
\- The following was observed for configuration A3:
\- With UE group scheduling (results in Table B.1-3 with \"Note 6\"):
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \
\- With PDCCH dropping based on predefined CCE AL priority order [1,2,4,8,16]
(results in Table B.1-3 with \"Note 7\"):
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \
\- \
**PDCCH blocking rate for FR2:**
Evaluation results of PDCCH blocking rate were reported for FR2 with
configuration \'A1\' in Table 6.2-5 and the baseline evaluation parameters in
Table 6.2-4. The results are available in Table B.2-1.
\- 4 sources (Ericsson, Qualcomm, Nokia, Samsung) reported the following
evaluation results:
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- 1 source (Samsung) reported the following evaluation results:
\- \
\- 1 source (Qualcomm) reported the following evaluation results:
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
4 sources (Ericsson, Qualcomm, ZTE, Samsung) reported the following evaluation
results of PDCCH blocking rate for FR2 with configuration \'A2\' in Table
6.2-5 and the baseline evaluation parameters in Table 6.2-4 (the results are
available in Table B.2-2):
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
3 sources (Ericsson, Qualcomm, Samsung) reported the following evaluation
results of PDCCH blocking rate for FR2 with configuration \'A3\' in Table
6.2-5 and the baseline evaluation parameters in Table 6.2-4 (the results are
available in Table B.2-3):
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
\- \
1 source (Samsung) reported the evaluation results of PDCCH blocking rate for
FR2 with configuration A1/A2/A3 in Table 6.2-5, baseline evaluation parameters
in Table 6.2-4, and with UE group scheduling or PDCCH dropping based on
predefined CCE AL priority order.
\- The following was observed for A1:
\- With UE group scheduling (results in Table B.2-1with \"Note 3\"):
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \
\- With PDCCH dropping based on predefined CCE AL priority order [1,2,4,8,16]
(results in Table B.2-1 with \"Note 4\"):
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \
\- \
\- The following was observed for A2:
\- With UE group scheduling (results in Table B.2-2 with \"Note 3\"):
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \
\- With PDCCH dropping based on predefined CCE AL priority order [1,2,4,8,16]
(results in Table B.2-2 with \"Note 4\"):
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \
\- \
\- The following was observed for A3:
\- With UE group scheduling (results in Table B.2-3 with \"Note 3\"):
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \
\- With PDCCH dropping based on predefined CCE AL priority order [1,2,4,8,16]
(results in Table B.2-3 with \"Note 4\"):
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \,
\- \
\- \
**Latency and scheduling flexibility:**
The latency impact due to BD reduction may largely depend on PDCCH blocking
rate performance impact. If the PDCCH blocking rate is increased by BD
reduction, the average latency is expected to be increased; Otherwise, BD
reduction has no impact on the latency.
Scheduling flexibility may or may not be impacted by BD reduction depending on
multiple factors at least including BW, Subcarrier Spacing (SCS), CORESET
size, AL distribution, channel condition, number of ALs per UE, number of UEs
that need to be simultaneously scheduled, DCI size budget reduction, etc.
### 8.2.4 Analysis of coexistence with legacy UEs
The potential impacts on legacy UEs, in terms of PDCCH blocking rate, when
coexisting with RedCap UEs in a shared CORESET depend on the scheduling
strategy and system parameters. Depending on the network implementation, if
legacy UEs are prioritized over RedCap UEs, there is no coexistence impact on
the legacy UEs at the cost of increased latency at the RedCap UE side.
### 8.2.5 Analysis of specification impacts
For reduced PDCCH monitoring, the following specification impacts are
foreseen:
\- Depending on the considered techniques, for scheme with reducing maximum
number of PDCCH candidates, specification impact may include reducing the
limit on maximum number of PDCCH candidates.
\- For extending the PDCCH monitoring gap to X slots (X>1), the minimum
separation between two consecutive PDCCH monitoring occasions, spans or slots
configured with PDCCH candidates is increased from 1 slot to X>1 slots and X
needs to be specified.
\- For dynamic adaptation of PDCCH BD parameters in connected mode,
specification impacts may include mechanisms used to dynamically adapt PDCCH
BD parameters e.g., maximum number of BDs per PDCCH monitoring occasion, span
or slot and minimum time separation between two consecutive PDCCH monitoring
occasions, spans or slots configured with PDCCH candidates.
\- The existing Rel-15/Rel-16 PDCCH monitoring configuration can still be used
to configure the BD candidates and PDCCH monitoring gap. Additional
specification impacts may include one or more of following: reducing DCI size
budget, modification to DCI size alignment rule, DCI format design (including
single PDSCH scheduling and multiple PDSCHs scheduling), modification to PDCCH
candidates dropping rule, to minimize the PDCCH blocking rate impact and
network restriction.
## 8.3 Extended DRX for RRC Inactive and/or Idle
### 8.3.1 Description of feature
In LTE connected to EPC, the UE may be configured with an extended DRX (eDRX)
cycle. The UE may operate in eDRX only if the UE is configured by NAS and the
cell indicates support for eDRX in System Information (note that there is no
System Information indication for NB-IoT). In RRC_IDLE, the eDRX cycle has the
maximum value of 2621.44 seconds (43.69 minutes). For NB-IoT the maximum value
of eDRX cycle is 10485.76 seconds (2.91 hours). Hyper SFN (H-SFN) is
broadcasted in System Information and incremented by one when SFN wraps
around. The Paging Hyperframe (PH) refers to the H-SFN in which the UE starts
to monitor for paging during a Paging Time Window (PTW), see e.g. [12].
RAN2 has studied the following topics related to extended DRX for RRC_IDLE and
RRC_INACTIVE:
\- Analysis of UE power saving
\- Analysis of upper and lower bound of extended DRX cycles
\- Analysis of mechanisms for extended DRX
### 8.3.2 Analysis of UE power saving
Annex E.1 lists power saving results and analysis from two sources for
extended DRX in RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE.
In summary, one source finds that an eDRX cycle of 10485.76 seconds (2.91
hours) can result in power saving between 34-80 % for a high SINR case and
between 56-91 % for a low SINR using an RRC_IDLE DRX cycle (with equal PTW
length) from 2.56 seconds down to 320 ms. One source provides a plot of
possible UE battery lifetime against eDRX cycle length. The battery lifetime
for a UE with a 2-minute eDRX cycle compared to the same device with 10.24
seconds eDRX cycle is shown to result in between 0.38 -- 340 % improvements
for RRC_IDLE and 1-419 % improvements for RRC_INACTIVE, respectively. The
evaluation has been performed for various use cases and inter-arrival times
from 100 ms up to 5 minutes.
From RAN2 perspective, extended DRX is beneficial for UE power consumption and
can be specified and configured for RedCap UEs so that eDRX cycles can be used
in RRC_IDLE and in RRC_INACTIVE states.
RAN2 sees a benefit extending the eDRX cycle in RRC_INACTIVE beyond 10.24
seconds for RedCap UEs for the following reasons:
\- It is very beneficial to have eDRX cycles >10.24 seconds in RRC_INACTIVE to
effectively support the use of Rel-17 SDT (small data transmission) e.g. for
use cases with periodic uplink data with periodicity > 10.24 seconds. TS
22.104 provides such use cases, e.g. some industrial wireless sensors need to
transfer small packets and have strict battery lifetime requirements, while
not being sensitive to DL traffic delay.
\- Based on the results in Annex E.1, there is a clear power saving gain vs
eDRX in RRC_IDLE at least for eDRX cycles in the range from 10.24 seconds up
to couple of minutes, where the UE in eDRX in RRC_INACTIVE additionally
benefits from less signaling. Based on these results, lifetime of several
years would not be achievable in some cases (e.g. 1-minute inter-arrival time)
if only RRC_IDLE can be used, because of the signaling overhead.
\- Signaling reduction is an additional benefit from network point of view --
there is need for less RRC signaling.
The potential issues with eDRX extension beyond 10.24 seconds for RRC_INACTIVE
are:
\- Impact on CN procedures (e.g. NAS retransmission), thus SA2/CT1 must be
consulted on the feasibility.
\- Potential handling of different eDRX cycles > 10.24 seconds and/or PTWs,
one for IDLE and the other for INACTIVE.
\- It needs to be studied which node decides and configures the eDRX cycle for
RRC_INACTIVE.
SA2/CT1 must be consulted on the feasibility prior to the introduction of eDRX
cycles longer than 10.24 seconds in RRC_INACTIVE.
### 8.3.3 Analysis of upper and lower bound of extended DRX cycles
For the upper bound, the eDRX cycle should support up to 10485.76 seconds,
since the upper limit of the H-SFN (10 bits) already is 10485.76 seconds, and
5GC already supports eDRX values up to 10485.76 seconds for NB-IoT and LTE-MTC
connected to 5GC. Although little power saving gain has been observed beyond
2621.44 seconds (simulation results show that the gain is saturated at around
40 minutes, see Annex E), there is no reason to artificially limit the range
without technical concern, e.g., unless RAN4 indicates such eDRX value
requires UE to perform RRM on serving cell outside PTW.
Shorter values than 5.12 seconds for the DRX cycles, such as 2.56 seconds,
have also been studied. For the lower bound of the eDRX cycle, one motivation
to support down to 2.56 seconds is that at least some RedCap UEs should be
able to support the reception of emergency broadcast services (e.g. ETWS
primary notification) within the required delay budget of 4 seconds while
still saving power. This is not possible with 5.12 seconds eDRX cycle lengths.
However, other solutions exist allowing RedCap UEs to receive emergency
broadcast services without requiring eDRX to support lower cycle values than
legacy LTE (5.12 seconds), while also saving power:
\- **Solution 1** : For RedCap UEs, if the NAS configures the UE with a 2.56
seconds DRX UE-specific paging cycle, the RedCap UE follows this DRX cycle
even when the RAN paging cycle or default paging cycle is shorter.
\- **Solution 2** : gNB can configure 2.56 seconds default broadcasted DRX
cycle for those RedCap UEs that need to receive emergency broadcast services
and a shorter UE-specific RAN paging cycle can be configured for UEs with
tighter latency requirements (e.g. smartphones).
Solution 1 is similar to supporting eDRX cycle of 2.56 seconds in that the UE
does not need to follow shorter RAN or default paging cycle, and therefore has
the same pros/cons: it enables a mix of smartphones and RedCap UEs in the
network, with an appropriate paging cycle configured for each of them.
However, these solutions (solution 1 and eDRX with 2.56 seconds cycle) assume
such RedCap UEs do not need to monitor gNB configured default broadcasted
paging (and UE-specific RAN paging) cycles, thus resulting in network not
being able to reach such RedCap UEs by using default broadcasted paging cycles
and/or UE-specific RAN paging cycles. This may result e.g. in a potential risk
of UE missing SI change indicator. Specifically, solution 1 requires a
different way to determine the UE DRX cycle for RedCap UEs in both the UE and
the gNB.
Solution 2 is consistent with the LTE solution, but a default broadcasted DRX
value of 2.56 seconds is expected not to be widely used, e.g. in existing
deployments supporting smartphones, requiring changes to the paging cycle in
existing deployments and configuration of a UE-specific paging cycle for each
UE intended to follow a shorter paging cycle.
Other solutions also exist that do not consider the power saving aspects for
UEs receiving emergency broadcast services. For example, a simple solution is
that RedCap UEs that need to receive emergency broadcast services do not
request to be configured with eDRX, and no specific handling/configuration is
required for those UEs. However, such RedCap UEs do not benefit from any
specific eDRX power saving. Alternately, a RedCap UE could request an eDRX
configuration while still monitoring for ETWS and CMAS in between the paging
occasions.
### 8.3.4 Analysis of mechanisms for extended DRX
If extension of the eDRX cycles beyond 10.24 seconds is specified, a feasible
extension mechanism is expected to be similar to what is specified for LTE.
This mechanism would include the use of H-SFN, PH and PTW, see e.g. [12].
For RedCap UEs in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE, if the eDRX cycle is less than or
equal to 10.24 seconds, the paging monitoring configuration does not use PTW
and PH.
Specifically, for the case when the eDRX cycle equals 10.24 seconds, the pros
and cons of not using PTW and PH are as follows:
Pros:
\- Allows UEs that do not need long eDRX cycles (> 10.24 seconds) to reuse NR
Rel-16 DRX implementation without additional development work and without a
need for an explicit capability signalling.
\- NR already supports 10.24 seconds interval in C-DRX without using PTW and
PH.
\- For RRC_INACTIVE, the same solution was adopted for LTE-MTC connected to
5GC.
Cons:
\- Different solution from LTE for eDRX cycle = 10.24 seconds in RRC_IDLE.
\- Will impact 5GC and RAN2 will need to consult SA2/CT1 on the feasibility.
\- UE cannot have multiple opportunities to receive its paging during an eDRX
cycle.
The following solutions can be considered for PTW and eDRX cycle configuration
for RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE:
\- A common PTW and eDRX cycle.
\- A common PTW but with different eDRX cycle.
\- A common eDRX cycle but with different PTW length.
\- Different eDRX cycle and different PTW length.
Two options should be considered for the deciding node for the eDRX
configuration for RRC_INACTIVE:
**Option 1** : CN decides the eDRX parameters for RRC_INACTIVE.
\- CN has better insight on the UE traffic profile.
\- Better for addressing potential core network impacts.
\- CN is responsible for eDRX in RRC_IDLE (and UE needs to monitor for CN
paging also in RRC_INACTIVE).
\- If RAN2 agrees to consider a common PTW and eDRX cycle configuration, CN
based eDRX configuration can be supported with minimum impact to
specifications where RAN follows the CN configured cycle. This common
configuration can additionally be justified by its simplicity and less
expected impacts to other WGs.
**Option 2** : RAN decides the eDRX parameters for RRC_INACTIVE
\- It provides more flexibility to the RAN node in the configuration of the
eDRX parameters.
\- It allows RAN to configure different eDRX cycle for RRC INACTIVE.
\- In Rel-16 LTE-MTC connected to 5GC, NR-RAN chooses and configures the final
eDRX cycle for RRC_INACTIVE (configuration is possible up to 10.24 seconds),
based on idle mode eDRX cycle as provided by the AMF.
## 8.4 RRM relaxation for stationary devices
### 8.4.1 Description of feature
The study includes an objective on RRM relaxation for stationary RedCap UEs.
RAN2 recommends that irrespective of RRC state, it is under network control
whether to enable or disable RRM relaxation functionality for RedCap UEs.
RAN2 has studied different types of classification of potential RedCap UEs\'
mobility states, e.g. possibility to introduce a stationary mobility state.
Considering the mobility of a RedCap UE, the stationarity property would not
be limited to fixed or immobile UEs, but UEs which are considered stationary
can also have low mobility, i.e., be slightly moving. In addition, another
mobility option for \"confined mobility\" has been studied (see details in
Enhancement 6 of triggering criterion in 8.4.1.1).
RAN2 has studied different enhancements to triggering RRM measurement
relaxation and potential RRM relaxation methods for RRC_IDLE, RRC_INACTIVE and
RRC_CONNECTED. RRM relaxation for neighboring cell measurements for RRC_IDLE
and RRC_INACTIVE is discussed in clause 8.4.2 and RRM relaxation for
neighboring cells for RRC_CONNECTED in clause 8.4.3.
### 8.4.2 RRM relaxation in RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE
Rel-16 NR RRM relaxation procedures are taken as a baseline to study further
enhancements of neighbour cell RRM relaxation for RedCap UEs in RRC_IDLE and
RRC_INACTIVE.
For triggering neighbour cell RRM relaxation for RedCap UEs in RRC_IDLE and
RRC_INACTIVE, based on Rel-16 triggering criterion, the following triggering
enhancements can be considered (other solutions are not precluded):
\- **Enhancement 1** : Introduce additional S~searchDeltaP_stationary~
threshold to support 2-level speed evaluation (i.e. stationary and low
mobility), for example:
\- Stationary: (Srxlev~Ref~ -- Srxlev) \>1)
hours.
Pros:
\- It is useful to further reduce power consumption for truly stationary UEs.
Cons:
\- Based on evaluation in Clause E.2.1, the gain compared to 1-hour
measurement interval is not significant.
\- **Enhancement 2** : Enabling further relaxation by reducing the number of
the monitored reference signals (RS). UE only needs to measure specific beams;
thus, the power consumption can be reduced, and the time period of measurement
can be reduced.
\- **Enhancement 3** : UE only perform measurements on a number of dedicated
intra-frequency, inter-frequency cells.
Pros:
\- For stationary UEs, can avoid UE to measure all frequencies/cells
broadcast.
Cons:
\- May require additional effort for network planning and may require network
to indicate deployment related information to UE (e.g. neighbour cells
adjacent to each serving beam).
\- If the UE actually does moves or radio conditions change enough, there may
be a negative impact on cell-reselection.
**\- Enhancement 4:** Minimize the number of measured frequencies.
Pros:
\- For stationary and confined mobility UEs, can avoid UE to measure all
frequencies/cells broadcast.
Cons:
\- If the UE actually does moves or radio conditions change enough, there may
be impact on cell-reselection.
\- May require additional signalling from the network to provide the UE with
potential frequencies to be used in IDLE/INACTIVE. And additional signalling
to allow/prohibit the UE from re-selecting to other frequencies than provided
by the network.
**-** **Enhancement 5** : Expand the Rel-16 scenario of performing \"stop
measurements for 1 hour\" for stationary UEs. This would help to further
reduce power consumption for a truly stationary UE.
**\- Enhancement 6:** Upon UE fulfils the criterion (i.e. RSRP threshold
evaluation), UE can trigger measurement relaxation on part of configured
frequencies even if the criterion has not been fulfilled for a period of
T~SearchDeltaP~.
Pros:
\- UE can maximize its power saving on the measurements because measurement
relaxation can be started earlier.
Cons:
\- Without evaluating the duration of criterion has been fulfilled, it may
cause misjudgement due to weak robustness.
### 8.4.3 RRM relaxation in RRC_CONNECTED
For neighbour cell RRM relaxation in RRC_CONNECTED, due to the concern on
potential mobility performance impact, it is RAN2 recommendation that \"fixed
or immobile UEs\" are considered with higher priority than \"slightly moving
UEs\".
For assisting triggering neighbour cell RRM relaxation for RedCap UEs in
RRC_CONNECTED, following solutions can be considered (other solutions are not
precluded):
**\- Solution 1:** UE reports \"stationary\" status to network in Msg5. How
the mobility status is determined, e.g. left up to UE implementation or based
on measurements or location information, should be studied further in
normative phase, if it is to be considered.
Pros:
\- Allows UE to report to network if it is temporarily stationary, so network
can change its RRM configuration timely.
Cons:
\- Channel or link (RSRP/RSRQ) may change even if UE is stationary, so it may
impact handover performance if UE cannot cancel RRM relaxing timely.
**\- Solution 2:** Network provides (e.g. low mobility, not-at-cell-edge)
evaluation parameters to UE via dedicated signalling.
Pros:
\- Reusing Rel-16 mechanism in Connected UEs, maximize the commonality with
idle/inactive UEs.
\- Network can set evaluation parameters to UE, so it is more reliable and
impacts on performance can be reduced.
Cons:
\- Network needs to configure UE with additional parameters for RRC_CONNECTED.
\- The mobility status is determined by UE based on evaluation of serving cell
measurements. So, from network perspective, (compared to other solutions)
network does not know whether the UE is relaxing RRM measurements or not.
**\- Solution 3:** AMF sends \"stationary\" indication to gNB (based on UE
subscription).
Pros:
\- The information is derived from UE subscription information, such fixed-
location UE will not move, so performance impact can be minimized.
\- It is useful in potentially reducing the amount of measurements and can
enable network to configure more power-efficient RRM in RRC_CONNECTED.
Cons:
\- Only applicable to limited scenarios, e.g. fixed-location devices.
\- Channel or link (RSRP/RSRQ) may change even if UE is stationary, so it may
impact handover performance if UE cannot cancel RRM relaxing timely.
\- **Solution 4** : UE reports \"stationary\" in UE Assistance Information to
network. How the mobility status is determined, e.g. left up to UE
implementation or based on measurements or location information, should be
studied further in normative phase.
Pros:
\- Allows UE to report to network if it is temporarily stationary, so network
can change its RRM configuration timely.
Cons:
\- Channel or link (RSRP/RSRQ) may change even if UE is purely stationary, so
it may impact handover performance if UE is located at cell edge and cannot
cancel RRM relaxing timely.
**\- Solution 5:** Network enables measurement relaxation based on UE\'s
measurement report.
Pros:
\- It keeps the control fully on network side.
\- UE measurement report can be based on existing UE measurement report
mechanism.
Cons:
\- It relies on UE measurement reporting.
For neighbour cell RRM relaxation methods for RedCap UEs in RRC_CONNECTED, the
exact mechanism, if any, will be decided by RAN4. The following solutions have
been discussed in RAN2:
\- **Solution 1** : Network does not configure measurements for mobility
purposes.
\- **Solution 2** : UE only performs measurement on single RS type.
From RAN2\'s perspective, other solutions are not precluded.
### 8.4.4 Analysis of UE power saving
Annex E.2 lists power saving results and analysis.
In summary, one source [9] presents plotted results for cases where the DRX
cycle is 1.28 seconds, the number of intra- and inter-frequency cells is 8
with an SSB periodicity of 20 ms. The results are presented with the average
power consumption plotted against how often the UE measures. The results show
that power consumption does not change significantly for measurement
relaxation beyond one hour (one-hour relaxation is the maximum possible in
Rel-16).
One source [10] shows the power saving gain for serving cell RRM relaxation in
idle and connected mode. The simulation results show that 3 .6%\~13.4% power
saving gain is observed when 4 times RRM relaxation for serving cell is
adopted by high SINR for idle/inactive UE. Meanwhile, the results from [6]
show that by increasing measurement period 4 times for RRC_CONNECTED UEs,
11.1% - 26.6% power saving gains are observed, at the cost of an increase of
handover failure rate from 0% to 0.26% for stationary or low mobility (e.g., 3
km/h) case.
In addition, one source [11] shows the average power consumption and power
saving gain when further expand the measurement interval from using three
times scaling factor to stopping measurement for 1 hour. The result shows that
for DRX cycle =1280 ms, stopping measurement for 1 hour can achieve power
saving gain of 25.17% compared to 3-times relaxation. In addition, [11] shows
the time reduction and power saving gain when the time duration for
detecting/measuring SSBs can be reduced by reducing the number of measured
SSBs. The power saving gain is 13.54% and 16.25% respectively if the time for
SSBs detection/measurement is reduced by 62.5% and 75%.
# 9 Coverage recovery
## 9.0 Introduction to coverage recovery
Coverage recovery to compensate for potential coverage reduction due to the
device complexity reduction was studied. The evaluation methodology is
described in clause 6.3, evaluation results for different scenarios are
described in clause 9.1 with a summary of observations from the evaluations in
clause 9.1.5, and potential coverage recovery techniques for different
physical channels are described in clauses 9.2 through 9.4.
## 9.1 Coverage recovery evaluation
### 9.1.1 Urban scenario at 2.6 GHz
For Urban scenario at 2.6 GHz, the bottleneck channel for the reference NR UE
and the corresponding maximum isotropic loss (MIL) value by the sourcing
companies [3] are shown in Table 9.1.1-1. More details are provided in Annex
C.1. The estimated coverage loss for the RedCap UE relative to the bottleneck
channel of the reference NR UE is summarized in Table 9.1.1-2 and Table
9.1.1-3. For every sourcing-company result, the amount of compensation for
each channel that has MIL below the target value are highlighted. It is noted
that the 3dB antenna efficiency loss is assumed in both DL and UL for the
RedCap UE.
Table 9.1.1-1: Bottleneck channel and MIL value for Reference NR UE in Urban
2.6 GHz
                 Bottleneck Channel   MIL (dB)
* * *
Samsung PUSCH 139.4 ZTE PUSCH 142.0 OPPO PUSCH 145.1 CATT PUSCH 145.9 vivo
PUSCH 137.8 Xiaomi PUSCH 146.7 Futurewei PUSCH 151.6 Nokia PUSCH 138.6 DCM
PUSCH 145.7 CMCC PUSCH 139.8 Huawei PUSCH 139.0 Spreadtrum PUSCH 145.7 Apple
PUSCH 140.0 Ericsson PUSCH 143.9 InterDigital PUSCH 143.2 Qualcomm PUSCH 139.4
Intel PUSCH 143.9
The representative values in the last row of Table 9.1.1-2 and Table 9.1.1-3
are derived by taking the mean value (in dB domain) from all the companies
results and excluding the highest and the lowest values when the number of
samples is more than 3. A negative value of the representative value for a
channel of the RedCap UE indicates the coverage of the channel is worse than
that of the bottleneck channel of the reference NR UE.
As can be seen in the last row for the representative value, all the channels
except for PUSCH have better coverage than that of the bottleneck channel thus
requiring no compensation. On average, a coverage degradation of approximately
3dB is observed for PUSCH.
It should be noted that the 3dB loss is resulted from the UE antenna
efficiency loss assumed for the wearable use cases. Furthermore, the same
target data rate of 1Mbps for PUSCH is assumed for both RedCap UE and the
reference UE (see evaluation methodology described in clause 6.3). A smaller
or no coverage loss for PUSCH is expected if the target data rate for RedCap
UE is reduced.
Table 9.1.1-2: Coverage loss (dB) for 2Rx RedCap UE in Urban scenario at 2.6
GHz (Option 3)
                              PDCCH CSS   PDCCH USS   PDSCH      Msg2       Msg4       PBCH       PUCCH 2bits   PUCCH 11 bits   PUCCH 22 bits   PUSCH      Msg3      PRACH B4
* * *
Samsung 20.6 24.6 17.2 16.3 17.2 15.8 12.2 8.9 -3.0 7.6 ZTE 17.7 15.9 13.4
-3.0 11.5 OPPO 16.0 20.0 19.5 10.1 13.8 6.8 6.8 6.7 -3.2 6.6 CATT 13.2 17.2
15.7 7.8 11.4 11.4 10.0 7.9 -3.0 4.6 vivo 14.2 22.2 17.2 11.8 13.7 17.6 15.4
12.9 10.3 -2.8 11.6 8.9 Xiaomi 14.0 14.0 14.1 8.6 11.6 11.9 9.2 7.5 -3.0 4.9
Futurewei 7.3 9.3 7.6 5.6 6.4 -3.0 -1.1 Nokia 23.9 23.9 21.7 22.9 21.7 10.1
8.6 -3.0 6.2 8.7 DCM 14.1 18.1 14.1 7.2 10.3 12.4 16.2 -3.0 5.9 CMCC 17.4 23.0
21.3 14.8 17.6 19.0 13.5 11.7 9.6 -3.0 10.1 15.9 Huawei 19.0 23.0 17.9 15.7
15.6 18.6 16.3 -3.0 7.7 Spreadtrum 13.2 17.2 15.1 12.0 12.0 14.5 9.7 7.9 7.5
-3.0 1.8 7.0 Apple 14.4 22.4 17.4 7.3 10.4 7.8 -3.0 1.8 Ericsson 11.8 11.8
12.5 6.2 8.9 13.8 8.0 8.6 6.7 -3.0 4.3 8.1 InterDigital 15.5 19.6 17.1 10.6
13.6 13.9 9.6 -3.0 6.6 Qualcomm 16.5 18.4 12.6 14.9 4.2 -3.0 5.9 Intel 15.8
17.1 13.7 16.7 14.0 18.8 15.1 13.8 11.2 -3.0 7.6 9.8 Representative value (dB)
**15.4** **19.2** **16.5** **11.3** **13.2** **17.0** **12.9** **11.3**
**8.9** **-3.0** **6.2** **8.9**
Note: All sources except for Intel assume no TBS scaling for Msg2 evaluation.
Table 9.1.1-3: Coverage loss (dB) for 1Rx RedCap UE in Urban scenario at 2.6
GHz (Option 3)
                              PDCCH CSS   PDCCH USS   PDSCH      Msg2      Msg4      PBCH       PUCCH 2bits   PUCCH 11 bits   PUCCH 22 bits   PUSCH      Msg3      PRACH B4
* * *
Samsung 17.1 21.1 12.4 11.1 13.7 15.8 12.2 8.9 -3.0 7.6 ZTE 5.9 16.3 18.8 9.0
9.4 17.7 15.9 13.4 -3.0 11.5 OPPO 12.1 16.1 16.9 4.1 9.9 6.8 6.8 6.7 -3.2 6.6
CATT 9.5 13.5 11.9 1.6 8.0 11.4 10.0 7.9 -3.0 4.6 vivo 10.9 19.0 12.8 6.9 9.0
14.5 15.4 12.9 10.3 -2.8 11.6 8.9 Xiaomi 10.9 10.9 10.5 3.4 7.6 11.9 9.2 7.5
-3.0 4.9 Futurewei 4.7 6.7 5.6 2.6 3.2 -3.0 -1.1 Nokia 19.9 19.9 18.2 19.2
17.9 10.1 8.6 -3.0 6.2 8.7 DCM 10.7 14.7 10.0 1.5 6.1 12.4 16.2 -3.0 5.9 CMCC
13.5 11.7 9.6 -3.0 10.1 15.9 Huawei 15.9 19.9 14.1 11.4 11.7 18.6 16.3 -3.0
7.7 Spreadtrum 10.2 14.2 12.1 9.0 9.0 11.5 9.7 7.9 7.5 -3.0 1.8 7.0 Apple 11.0
19.0 12.8 1.8 6.1 7.8 -3.0 1.8 Ericsson 8.8 8.8 9.3 1.3 4.9 9.9 8.0 8.6 6.7
-3.0 4.3 8.1 InterDigital 12.3 16.3 14.0 6.0 10.5 13.9 9.6 -3.0 6.6 Qualcomm
13.2 15.3 8.7 11.6 4.2 -3.0 5.9 Intel 15.1 13.8 11.2 -3.0 7.6 9.8
Representative value (dB) **11.4** **15.7** **13.1** **5.9** **9.1** **12.0**
**12.9** **11.3** **8.9** **-3.0** **6.2** **8.9**
Note: All sources except for Intel assume no TBS scaling for Msg2 evaluation.
### 9.1.2 Rural scenario at 0.7 GHz
For Rural scenario at 0.7 GHz, the bottleneck channel for the reference NR UE
and the corresponding maximum isotropic loss (MIL) value by the sourcing
companies [3] are shown in Table 9.1.2-1. More details are provided in Annex
C.2. The estimated coverage loss for the RedCap UE in rural scenario at 0.7
GHz, relative to the bottleneck channel of the reference NR UE is summarized
in Table 9.1.2-2 and Table 9.1.2-3. For every sourcing-company result, the
amount of compensation for each channel that has MIL below the target value
are highlighted. It is noted that the 3dB antenna efficiency loss is assumed
in both DL and UL for the RedCap UE.
Table 9.1.2-1: Bottleneck channel and MIL value for Reference NR UE in rural
0.7 GHz
                 Bottleneck Channel   MIL (dB)
* * *
Samsung PUSCH 146.6 ZTE Msg3 143.2 OPPO PUCCH PF3 22 bits 148.9 CATT PUSCH
147.9 vivo PUSCH 144.0 Xiaomi PUSCH 149.7 Futurewei PUSCH 150.8 Nokia Msg3
138.5 DCM PUSCH 146.7 Panasonic PUSCH 141.8 Huawei PUSCH 141.8 Spreadtrum
PUSCH 151.5 Apple PUSCH 143.7 Ericsson PUSCH 142.9 InterDigital Msg3 144.4
Qualcomm PUSCH 141.3 Intel PUSCH 146.7
The representative values in the last row of Table 9.1.2-2 and Table 9.1.2-3
are derived by taking the mean value (in dB domain) from all the companies
results and excluding the highest and the lowest values when the number of
samples is more than 3. A negative value of the representative value for a
channel of the RedCap UE indicates the coverage of the channel is worse than
that of the bottleneck channel of the reference NR UE.
As can be seen in the last row for the representative value, all the channels
except for PUSCH and Msg3 have better coverage than that of the bottleneck
channel thus requiring no compensation. On average, a coverage degradation of
approximately 2.8 dB and 1 dB, respectively is observed for PUSCH and Msg3.
It should be noted that the 3 dB loss is resulted from the UE antenna
efficiency loss assumed for the wearable use cases. Furthermore, the same
target data rate of 100 kbps for PUSCH is assumed for both RedCap UE and the
reference NR UE (see evaluation methodology described in clause 6.3). A
smaller or no coverage loss for PUSCH is expected if the target data rate for
RedCap UE is reduced.
Table 9.1.2-2: Coverage loss (dB) for 2Rx RedCap UE in rural scenario at 0.7
GHz (Option 3)
                              PDCCH CSS   PDCCH USS   PDSCH     Msg2      Msg4      PBCH       PUCCH 2bits   PUCCH 11 bits   PUCCH 22 bits   PUSCH      Msg3       PRACH Format 0
* * *
Samsung 12.9 12.9 8.4 8.4 9.4 8.7 4.9 1.9 -3.0 -0.1 ZTE 6.4 4.4 1.7 -2.6 -3.0
OPPO 11.2 11.2 10.0 5.0 9.1 -2.9 -2.8 -3.0 -1.9 -2.5 CATT 7.5 7.5 4.9 2.6 5.9
5.6 4.5 2.4 -3.1 -0.3 vivo 8.0 8.1 5.0 2.8 5.8 12.2 3.3 0.5 -1.9 -3.0 -0.7
-1.3 Xiaomi 7.3 7.3 4.9 2.2 5.4 5.3 2.7 0.2 -3.0 -1.8 Futurewei 7.4 7.4 4.4
4.2 5.4 -3.0 -0.8 Nokia 16.5 16.5 18.0 15.1 17.9 3.4 2.2 2.6 -3.0 6.4 DCM 6.2
11.6 -3.0 -0.2 Panasonic 17.0 7.0 7.8 5.4 1.4 -3.0 -0.2 Huawei 12.5 12.5 8.1
8.1 8.8 8.0 5.8 -3.0 0.5 Spreadtrum 6.6 6.6 4.6 5.6 5.6 8.6 6.0 3.0 2.8 -3.0
0.0 2.4 Apple 11.0 11.0 9.2 4.8 9.0 -3.0 Ericsson 11.5 10.8 6.2 7.4 10.1 11.5
3.5 12.0 1.5 -3.0 -0.9 2.1 InterDigital 13.8 13.8 11.1 4.9 7.7 8.4 3.4 -0.7
-3.0 Qualcomm 14.1 10.2 8.6 10.6 -0.5 -3.0 -0.5 Intel 4.7 5.0 2.3 -3.0 -0.2
2.6 Representative value (dB) **10.6** **10.8** **7.5** **5.7** **7.9**
**11.5** **5.7** **4.7** **1.4** **-2.8** **-1.0** **2.3**
Note: All sources except for Intel assume no TBS scaling for Msg2 evaluation.
Table 9.1.2-3: Coverage loss (dB) for 1Rx RedCap UE in rural scenario at 0.7
GHz (Option 3)
                              PDCCH CSS   PDCCH USS   PDSCH     Msg2      Msg4      PBCH      PUCCH 2bits   PUCCH 11 bits   PUCCH 22 bits   PUSCH      Msg3       PRACH Format 0
* * *
Samsung 9.2 9.2 4.1 2.5 5.7 8.7 4.9 1.9 -3.0 -0.1 ZTE 5.1 8.8 6.5 3.3 3.5 6.4
4.4 1.7 -2.6 -3.0 OPPO 6.6 6.6 6.5 -0.4 4.8 -2.9 -2.8 -3.0 -1.9 -2.5 CATT 4.0
4.0 1.7 -3.9 1.5 5.6 4.5 2.4 -3.1 -0.3 vivo 5.3 5.3 1.5 -2.5 1.8 8.4 3.3 0.5
-1.9 -3.0 -0.7 -1.3 Xiaomi 3.9 3.9 0.8 -3.5 0.9 5.3 2.7 0.2 -3.0 -1.8
Futurewei 3.5 3.5 0.1 -1.7 2.4 -3.0 -0.8 Nokia 12.2 12.2 15.4 11.5 14.9 3.4
2.2 2.6 -3.0 6.4 DCM 9.5 9.5 4.2 -0.9 4.1 6.2 11.6 -3.0 -0.2 Panasonic 14.1
3.3 7.8 5.4 1.4 -3.0 -0.2 Huawei 9.1 9.1 4.4 3.8 4.8 8.0 5.8 -3.0 0.5
Spreadtrum 3.6 3.6 1.6 2.6 1.6 5.6 6.0 3.0 2.8 -3.0 0.0 2.4 Apple 8.0 8.0 5.1
0.3 4.3 -3.0 Ericsson 7.1 7.3 6.2 3.3 6.4 7.1 3.5 12.0 1.5 -3.0 -0.9 2.1
InterDigital 10.0 10.0 7.4 -0.7 4.1 8.4 3.4 -0.7 -3.0 Qualcomm 10.3 6.8 4.1
7.2 -0.5 -3.0 -0.5 Intel 7.9 7.9 5.2 9.7 6.9 10.7 4.7 5.0 2.3 -3.0 -0.2 2.6
Representative value (dB) **7.1** **7.5** **4.4** **1.4** **4.2** **7.8**
**5.7** **4.7** **1.4** **-2.8** **-1.0** **2.3**
Note: All sources except for Intel assume no TBS scaling for Msg2 evaluation.
### 9.1.3 Urban scenario at 4 GHz
For Urban scenario at 4 GHz, the bottleneck channel for the reference NR UE
and the corresponding maximum isotropic loss (MIL) value by the sourcing
companies [3] are shown in Table 9.1.3-1. More details are provided in Annex
C.3.
For RedCap UE with 1 Rx and 2 Rx, the MIL loss relative to the bottleneck
channel of the reference NR UE is studied under different downlink power
spectrum density assumptions. For DL PSD 33 dBm/MHz, the estimated coverage
loss for 1 Rx and 2 Rx is summarized in Table 9.1.3-2 and Table 9.1.3-3,
respectively. For DL PSD 24 dBm/MHz, the estimated coverage loss for 1 Rx and
2 Rx is summarized in Table 9.1.3-4 and Table 9.1.3-5, respectively. For every
sourcing-company result, the amount of compensation for each channel that has
MIL below the target value are highlighted. It is noted that the 3dB antenna
efficiency loss is assumed in both DL and UL for the RedCap UE.
Table 9.1.3-1: Bottleneck channel and MIL values for Reference NR UE in Urban
4 GHz
                 Bottleneck Channel   MIL (dB)
* * *
Samsung PUSCH 142.0 ZTE PUSCH 143.0 OPPO PUSCH 147.0 vivo PUSCH 139.3
Futurewei PUSCH 152.6 Nokia PUSCH 140.8 DCM PUSCH 146.8 Huawei PUSCH 140.0
Spreadtrum PUSCH 145.4 Ericsson Msg2 143.6 InterDigital PUSCH 144.9 Qualcomm
PUSCH 140.7 Intel PUSCH 140.0 Lenovo PUSCH 148.3
The representative values in the last row of Table 9.1.3-2 to Table 9.1.3-5
are derived by taking the mean value (in dB domain) from all the companies
results and excluding the highest and the lowest values when the number of
samples is more than 3. A negative value of the representative value for a
channel of the RedCap UE indicates the coverage of the channel is worse than
that of the bottleneck channel of the reference NR UE.
As can be seen in the last row for the representative value, all uplink
channels except for PUSCH have better coverage than that of the bottleneck
channel thus requiring no compensation. On average, a coverage degradation of
approximately 3dB is observed for PUSCH.
It should be noted that the 3dB loss is resulted from the UE antenna
efficiency loss assumed for the wearable use cases. Furthermore, the same
target data rate of 1 Mbps for PUSCH is assumed for both RedCap UE and the
reference NR UE (see evaluation methodology described in clause 6.3). A
smaller or no coverage loss for PUSCH is expected if the target data rate for
RedCap UE is reduced.
As seen from Table 9.1.3-2 and Table 9.1.3-3, for DL PSD 33 dBm/MHz, all the
downlink channels are not coverage limited for both 1 Rx and 2 Rx RedCap UEs.
For DL PSD 24 dBm/MHz and 2 Rx RedCap UE, a coverage degradation of
approximately 1.1 dB is observed for Msg2 as seen from Table 9.1.3-4. For DL
PSD 24 dBm/MHz and 1 Rx RedCap UE, a coverage degradation of approximately 6.2
dB, 2.5 dB and 0.8 dB, respectively is observed for Msg2, Msg4 and PDCCH CSS
as seen from Table 9.1.3-5. It should be noted that for DL PSD 24 dBm/MHz
case, Msg2 results are based on no TBS scaling.
Table 9.1.3-2: Coverage loss (dB) for 2Rx RedCap UE in Urban 4 GHz with 33
dBm/MHz PSD (Option 3)
                              PDCCH CSS   PDCCH USS   PDSCH      Msg2       Msg4       PBCH       PUCCH 2bits   PUCCH 11 bits   PUCCH 22 bits   PUSCH      Msg3      PRACH B4
* * *
Samsung 18.0 22.0 14.8 13.7 14.7 13.3 9.5 6.5 -3.0 5.0 Vivo 12.7 20.7 16.0
10.3 12.3 16.0 14.0 11.5 8.8 -2.8 10.3 7.3 Nokia 21.7 21.7 17.8 22.6 19.2 7.9
6.4 -3.0 3.5 11.3 Huawei 18.0 22.0 16.9 14.6 14.6 17.5 15.7 -3.0 6.6
Representative value (dB) **18.0** **21.9** **16.4** **14.2** **14.7**
**16.0** **13.6** **10.5** **7.6** **-3.0** **5.8** **9.3**
Note: All sources assume no TBS scaling for Msg2 evaluation.
Table 9.1.3-3: Coverage loss (dB) for 1Rx RedCap UE in Urban 4 GHz with 33
dBm/MHz PSD (Option 3)
                              PDCCH CSS   PDCCH USS   PDSCH      Msg2      Msg4       PBCH       PUCCH 2bits   PUCCH 11 bits   PUCCH 22 bits   PUSCH      Msg3      PRACH B4
* * *
Samsung 14.5 18.5 10.1 8.5 11.1 13.3 9.5 6.5 -3.0 5.0 Vivo 9.6 17.6 11.4 5.6
7.5 13.4 14.0 11.5 8.8 -2.8 10.3 7.3 Nokia 17.7 17.7 14.0 18.8 15.7 7.9 6.4
-3.0 3.5 11.3 Huawei 14.5 18.5 13.0 10.3 10.7 17.5 15.7 -3.0 6.6
Representative value (dB) **14.5** **18.1** **12.2** **9.4** **10.9** **13.4**
**13.6** **10.5** **7.6** **-3.0** **5.8** **9.3**
Note: All sources assume no TBS scaling for Msg2 evaluation.
Table 9.1.3-4: Coverage loss (dB) for 2Rx RedCap UE in Urban 4 GHz with 24
dBm/MHz PSD (Option 3)
                              PDCCH CSS   PDCCH USS   PDSCH     Msg2       Msg4      PBCH      PUCCH 2bits   PUCCH 11 bits   PUCCH 22 bits   PUSCH      Msg3      PRACH B4
* * *
OPPO 5.1 9.1 7.5 -0.7 3.0 4.9 5.0 4.9 -3.0 4.7 Futurewei -2.4 -0.4 -2.6 -6.4
-3.6 -3.0 -2.1 DCM 4.1 8.1 4.0 -2.8 0.2 11.5 15.1 -3.0 4.9 Spreadtrum 4.3 8.5
6.3 3.3 3.3 6.3 9.8 7.8 9.6 -3.0 5.1 7.1 Ericsson -0.8 3.2 -0.1 -6.4 -3.7 1.4
7.0 9.0 7.1 -2.5 4.7 8.3 InterDigital 4.9 8.9 6.4 0.0 2.9 12.2 7.9 -3.0 5.0
Qualcomm 6.1 4.9 0.1 2.4 2.8 -3.7 3.3 Intel 10.4 11.5 6.5 11.4 8.6 13.3 18.5
17.3 14.7 -2.3 11.2 13.3 Representative value (dB) **4.0** **7.6** **4.7**
**-1.1** **1.4** **6.3** **10.1** **10.6** **7.4** **-2.9** **4.6** **8.3**
Note: All sources except for Intel assume no TBS scaling for Msg2 evaluation.
Table 9.1.3-5: Coverage loss (dB) for 1Rx RedCap UE in Urban 4 GHz with 24
dBm/MHz PSD (Option 3)
                              PDCCH CSS   PDCCH USS   PDSCH     Msg2       Msg4       PBCH      PUCCH 2bits   PUCCH 11 bits   PUCCH 22 bits   PUSCH      Msg3      PRACH B4
* * *
ZTE -4.5 6.0 8.6 -1.3 -1.1 16.6 14.9 12.3 -3.0 10.3 OPPO 1.2 5.2 4.9 -6.2 -0.8
4.9 5.0 4.9 -3.0 4.7 Futurewei -6.0 -4.0 -7.4 -13.4 -9.7 -3.0 -2.1 DCM 0.8 4.8
0.0 -8.5 -3.9 11.5 15.1 -3.0 4.9 Spreadtrum 1.3 5.5 3.3 0.3 0.3 3.3 9.8 7.8
9.6 -3.0 5.1 7.1 Ericsson -3.9 0.2 -3.8 -11.2 -7.6 -2.2 7.0 9.0 7.1 -2.5 4.7
8.3 InterDigital 1.7 5.7 3.3 -4.6 -0.2 12.2 7.9 -3.0 5.0 Qualcomm 2.8 1.7 -3.8
-0.9 2.8 -3.7 3.3 Lenovo -2.0 -2.6 -8.1 -2.9 11.7 6.9 5.7 -3.0 2.9
Representative value (dB) **-0.8** **4.3** **1.0** **-6.2** **-2.5** **0.6**
**10.4** **9.6** **7.0** **-3.0** **4.4** **7.7**
Note: All sources assume no TBS scaling for Msg2 evaluation.
### 9.1.4 Indoor scenario at 28 GHz
For indoor scenario at 28 GHz, the bottleneck channel for the reference NR UE
and the corresponding maximum isotropic loss (MIL) value by the sourcing
companies [3] are shown in Table 9.1.4-1. More details are provided in Annex
C.4. It is noted that max TRP 12 dBm is assumed for both the reference NR UE
and RedCap UE. For results presented by companies assuming max TRP 23 dBm, the
corresponding MIL values have been reduced by 11dB.
For RedCap UE with 1 Rx and 2 Rx, the MIL loss relative to the bottleneck
channel of the reference NR UE is studied under different maximum UE bandwidth
assumptions. The estimated coverage loss for maximum 100 MHz BW and 1 Rx
RedCap UE is summarized in Table 9.1.4-2. The estimated coverage loss for
maximum 50 MHz BW and 1 Rx and 2 Rx is summarized in Table 9.1.4-3 and Table
9.1.4-4, respectively. For every sourcing-company result, the amount of
compensation for each channel that has MIL below the target value are
highlighted.
Table 9.1.4-1: Bottleneck channel and MIL values for Reference NR UE in indoor
28 GHz
                 Bottleneck channel   MIL
* * *
Samsung PUSCH 133.3 ZTE PUSCH 123.3 OPPO PUSCH 130.9 vivo PUSCH 131.4 Nokia
PUSCH 133.9 DCM PUSCH 136.3 Ericsson PUSCH 127.7 InterDigital PUSCH 132.4
Qualcomm PUSCH 127.8 Intel PUSCH 126.4
The representative values in the last row of Table 9.1.4-2 to Table 9.1.4-4
are derived by taking the mean value (in dB domain) from all the companies
results and excluding the highest and the lowest values when the number of
samples is more than 3. A negative value of the representative value for a
channel of the RedCap UE indicates the coverage of the channel is worse than
that of the bottleneck channel of the reference NR UE.
As can be seen in the last row for the representative value, all uplink
channels are not coverage limited for the RedCap UE with either better or
similar coverage as the bottleneck channel of the reference NR UE. This is
because at FR2 there is no assumption of reduced antenna efficiency for the
RedCap UE and UL coverage is expected to be same as the reference NR UE.
For RedCap UE with maximum 100MHz BW and 1Rx, although there is performance
loss from reducing the number of Rx branches to 1, the representative values
of all the downlink channels are larger than zero indicating a better
performance than the bottleneck channel of the reference NR UE.
For RedCap UE with maximum 50MHz BW and 2Rx, the similar observation can be
drawn. The MIL(s) of all the downlink channels are better than that of the
bottleneck channel for the reference NR UE.
For RedCap UE with maximum 50MHz BW and 1Rx, an averaged coverage degradation
of approximately 2.2 dB is observed for PDSCH. This is because a same target
data rate (i.e. 25 Mbps) is assumed even maximum UE bandwidth is reduced by
half. A smaller or no coverage loss for PDSCH is expected if the target data
rate for RedCap UE with maximum 50MHz BW is reduced.
Table 9.1.4-2: Coverage loss (dB) for RedCap UE (1Rx, 100MHz BW) in indoor
scenario at 28 GHz (Option 3)
                              PDCCH CSS   PDCCH USS   PDSCH     Msg2      Msg4      PBCH       PUCCH 2bits   PUCCH 11 bits   PUCCH 22 bits   PUSCH     Msg3       PRACH B4
* * *
Samsung 9.0 9.1 3.1 6.2 3.9 24.2 20.6 17.1 0.0 16.1 ZTE 13.1 13.8 5.8 10.8
11.3 23.1 18.8 18.0 0.0 18.0 OPPO 10.1 10.1 7.9 9.3 8.5 18.2 17.8 18.1 0.0
18.4 vivo 0.4 5.4 -0.6 -4.0 -0.8 22.6 20.9 17.6 0.0 11.4 11.2 Nokia 5.6 5.4
2.1 8.6 7.6 15.6 14.0 0.0 8.2 12.6 DCM 8.5 8.5 2.1 0.8 0.6 11.3 16.7 0.0 12.9
Ericsson 0.5 1.5 -3.3 -2.9 -4.2 2.9 11.8 11.8 9.4 0.0 7.6 10.4 InterDigital
11.1 11.1 6.2 5.6 5.5 22.9 17.3 0.0 16.0 Qualcomm 12.3 18.3 9.8 10.6 16.0 21.8
32.0 25.8 23.3 0.0 8.6 24.6 Intel 8.7 9.5 1.6 10.7 7.6 11.4 19.6 19.9 16.8 0.0
13.5 13.5 Representative value (dB) **8.2** **9.1** **3.5** **6.1** **5.5**
**11.4** **19.7** **19.1** **17.0** **0.0** **13.1** **12.4**
Note 1: All sources except for Intel assume no TBS scaling for Msg2 evaluation
Note 2: Most of the Msg4 results are based on MCS0. However, a few results are
based on a higher MCS
Table 9.1.4-3: Coverage loss (dB) for RedCap UE (2Rx, 50MHz BW) in indoor
scenario at 28 GHz (Option 3)
                              PDCCH CSS   PDCCH USS   PDSCH     Msg2       Msg4      PBCH       PUCCH 2bits   PUCCH 11 bits   PUCCH 22 bits   PUSCH     Msg3       PRACH B4
* * *
Samsung 12.7 12.6 3.7 11.8 9.2 24.2 20.6 17.1 0.0 16.1 OPPO 14.9 14.9 6.4 13.8
13.3 18.2 17.8 18.1 3.0 18.4 DCM 8.5 8.5 1.1 7.0 5.6 11.3 16.7 -1.4 12.9
Ericsson 2.5 3.5 -2.9 1.5 0.3 6.6 11.8 11.8 9.4 4.9 7.6 10.4 Qualcomm 10.6
16.1 16.4 25.1 32.0 25.8 23.3 0.1 8.6 24.6 Representative value (dB) **10.6**
**10.5** **3.7** **10.8** **9.4** **15.8** **18.1** **18.4** **17.6** **1.0**
**12.5** **17.5**
Note 1: All sources assume no TBS scaling for Msg2 evaluation
Note 2: Most of the Msg4 results are based on MCS0. However, a few results are
based on a higher MCS
Table 9.1.4-4: Coverage loss (dB) for RedCap UE (1Rx, 50MHz BW) in indoor
scenario at 28 GHz (Option 3)
                              PDCCH CSS   PDCCH USS   PDSCH      Msg2      Msg4      PBCH       PUCCH 2bits   PUCCH 11 bits   PUCCH 22 bits   PUSCH     Msg3       PRACH B4
* * *
Samsung 8.3 8.3 -2.4 6.2 3.9 24.2 20.6 17.1 0.0 16.1 OPPO 10.0 10.0 0.9 9.3
8.5 18.2 17.8 18.1 3.0 18.4 DCM 3.9 3.9 -5.0 0.8 0.6 11.3 16.7 -1.4 12.9
Ericsson -1.6 -0.6 -7.6 -2.9 -4.2 2.9 11.8 11.8 9.4 4.9 7.6 10.4 Qualcomm 5.6
10.6 12.4 22.1 32.0 25.8 23.3 0.1 8.6 24.6 Representative value (dB) **6.1**
**6.1** **-2.2** **5.4** **4.3** **12.5** **18.1** **18.4** **17.6** **1.0**
**12.5** **17.5**
Note 1: All sources assume no TBS scaling for Msg2 evaluation
Note 2: Most of the Msg4 results are based on MCS0. However, a few results are
based on a higher MCS
### 9.1.5 Summary of coverage recovery evaluation
In summary, based on the evaluation results, the following observations can be
made.
For FR1:
\- For FR1, under the consideration of potential reduced antenna efficiency
due to device size limitations, the MIL(s) of PUSCH and/or Msg3 are worse than
that of the bottleneck channel for the reference NR UE and coverage recovery
is needed. The amount of coverage recovery is up to 3 dB. For other UL
channels, coverage recovery may be not needed.
\- For RedCap UE with 2 Rx and reduced antenna efficiency, dependent on
frequency bands and the assumption of DL PSD, the need for coverage recovery
can be different.
\- For carrier frequency of 4 GHz with DL PSD 24 dBm/MHz, coverage recovery
may be needed for the downlink channels of Msg2. A small or moderate
compensation can be considered, where the square brackets indicate that the
exact amount will depend on the techniques, scenarios, etc.:
\- [1 dB] for Msg2 without TBS scaling. It is noted that coverage loss for
Msg2 can be compensated by using the existing TBS scaling technique.
\- For other carrier frequencies or DL PSD of 33 dBm/MHz, coverage recovery is
not needed for the downlink channels if the target for coverage recovery is
based on the MIL of the bottleneck channel for the reference NR UE.
\- For RedCap UE with 1 Rx and reduced antenna efficiency, dependent on
frequency bands and the assumption of DL PSD, the need for coverage recovery
can be different.
\- For carrier frequency of 4 GHz with DL PSD 24 dBm/MHz, coverage recovery
may be needed for the downlink channels of Msg2, Msg4 and PDCCH CSS. A small
or moderate compensation can be considered, where the square brackets indicate
that the exact amount will depend on the techniques, scenarios, etc.:
\- [1 dB] for PDCCH CSS
\- [2-3 dB] for Msg4
\- [6 dB] for Msg2 without TBS scaling. It is noted that coverage loss for
Msg2 can be compensated by using the existing TBS scaling technique.
\- For other carrier frequencies or DL PSD of 33 dBm/MHz, coverage recovery is
not needed for the downlink channels if the target for coverage recovery is
based on the MIL of the bottleneck channel for the reference NR UE.
> \- It is noted that in the methodology for RedCap UE coverage recovery
> target determination, absolute ISD/MPL targets are not considered.
>
> \- The determination of which channels require coverage recovery and the
> amount of coverage recovery depend on the choice of the target for coverage
> recovery.
For FR2:
\- For FR2, there is no assumption of reduced antenna efficiency for RedCap UE
and the MIL of the UL channels is the same as the reference NR UE and coverage
recovery for UL channels is not needed.
\- For RedCap UE with 100 MHz BW and 1Rx in FR2 indoor scenario, although
there is performance loss from reducing the number of Rx branches to 1, the
MIL(s) of all the DL channels is better that that of the bottleneck channel
for the reference NR UE, for which max TRP 12dBm is assumed, and coverage
recovery for DL channels is thus not needed.
\- For RedCap UE with 50MHz BW and 1Rx, coverage recovery may be needed for
PDSCH when the same target data rate as the reference NR UE is assumed, and
the amount of coverage recovery to be considered is approximately [2-3 dB] ,
where the square brackets indicate that the exact amount will depend on the
techniques, scenarios, etc.
\- The trade-off between data rate and coverage can be considered and the
amount of coverage recovery may depend on this choice.
\- The determination of which channels require coverage recovery and the
amount of coverage recovery depend on the choice of the target for coverage
recovery and/or max TRP for the reference NR UE.
\- E.g. coverage recovery may not be needed for FR2 indoor scenario when the
target is based on an MPL value from a target ISD of 20m.
\- E.g. coverage recovery for some DL channels may be needed for RedCap UE
with 100 MHz BW (e.g. Msg2/4, PDSCH) or 50 MHz BW (e.g. Msg2/4, PDSCH, PDCCH)
and 1Rx when max TRP 23 dBm is assumed for the reference NR UE.
## 9.2 Coverage recovery for PUSCH
### 9.2.1 Description of coverage recovery features
Coverage recovery for PUSCH has been studied, including both PUSCH for data
and Msg3.
Coverage recovery for PUSCH data was studied from several aspects, including
cross-slot or cross-repetition channel estimation, lower DM-RS density in time
domain, enhancements on PUSCH repetition Type A and/or Type B, frequency
hopping or BWP switching across a larger system bandwidth.
Some techniques, such as cross-slot or cross-repetition channel estimation,
lower DM-RS density in time domain, enhancements on PUSCH repetition Type A
and/or Type B have been studied also in the Rel-17 Coverage Enhancement SI
[5].
Coverage recovery for Msg3 was studied including repetition for Msg3 PUSCH
initial and/or retransmission.
It is noted that enhancements on Msg3 PUSCH repetition have been studied also
in the Rel-17 Coverage Enhancement SI [5].
### 9.2.2 Analysis of coexistence with legacy UEs
Potential coexistence impacts introduced by potential coverage recovery
solutions described in clause 9.2.1 have not been analysed.
### 9.2.3 Analysis of specification impacts
Potential specification impacts of frequency hopping or BWP switching across a
larger system bandwidth include:
\- Frequency domain hopping offsets/positions
\- Faster switching/RF retuning time.
\- Note this aspect requires RAN4 involvement, where the corresponding study
in RAN4 is not performed yet.
\- Transmission/reception interruption during RF retuning time
## 9.3 Coverage recovery for PDSCH
### 9.3.1 Description of coverage recovery features
Coverage recovery for PDSCH has been studied, including both PDSCH for data,
Msg2 and Msg4.
Coverage recovery for PDSCH was studied from several aspects, including the
use of the lower-MCS table, larger aggregation factor for PDSCH reception,
cross-slot or cross-repetition channel estimation, increasing the granularity
of PRB bundling, frequency hopping or BWP switching across a larger system
bandwidth.
Some techniques, such as the lower-MCS table and larger aggregation factor for
PDSCH reception are existing techniques with optional UE capability
signalling.
Coverage recovery for Msg2 PDSCH was studied from several aspects, including
TBS scaling and Msg2 PDSCH repetition.
It is noted that TBS scaling is an existing technique mandatory for Rel-15 UE.
Coverage recovery for Msg4 PDSCH was studied from several aspects, including
scaling factor for TBS determination, PDSCH repetition and the use of the
lower-MCS table. Some techniques, such as scaling factor for TBS determination
and PDSCH repetition have been studied also in the Rel-17 Coverage Enhancement
SI [5].
### 9.3.2 Analysis of coexistence with legacy UEs
Potential coexistence impacts introduced by potential coverage recovery
solutions described in clause 9.2.1 have not been analysed.
### 9.3.3 Analysis of specification impacts
If cross-slot or cross-repetition channel estimation for PDSCH is supported,
potential specification impacts include:
\- Time-domain precoder cycling and DM-RS configuration
If hopping or BWP switching across a larger system bandwidth is supported,
potential specification impacts include:
\- PDSCH hopping configuration
\- Faster switching/RF retuning time
\- Note this aspect requires RAN4 involvement, where the corresponding study
in RAN4 is not performed yet.
\- Transmission/reception interruption during RF retuning time
Potential specification impacts of increasing the granularity of PRB bundling
include:
\- Related signaling design
Potential specification impacts of Msg2 PDSCH repetition (if supported)
include:
\- Msg2 PDSCH repetition configuration
\- Mechanism to differentiate enhanced UE and legacy UE, e.g., separate PRACH
configurations (e.g., separate PRACH occasions or preambles)
Potential specification impacts of using the lower-MCS table for Msg4 PDSCH
include:
\- Related signaling design
## 9.4 Coverage recovery for PDCCH
### 9.4.1 Description of coverage recovery features
Coverage recovery for broadcast PDCCH (PDCCH monitored in a
Type0/0A/1/2/3-PDCCH CSS) was studied from several aspects, including PDCCH
repetition, compact DCI, new AL of 12, 24 or 32, PDCCH transmission via
CORESET or search space bundling, PDCCH-less mechanism for SIB1 and/or SI
message.
### 9.4.2 Analysis of coexistence with legacy UEs
It is noted that some of the techniques may have compatibility issue if RedCap
and normal UEs share the same initial DL BWP.
### 9.4.3 Analysis of specification impacts
If PDCCH repetition is supported, the potential specification impacts include:
\- Repetition configuration (e.g. intra-slot or inter-slot)
\- DMRS design among PDCCH repetitions
\- Search space design for PDCCH repetition
If compact DCI is supported, the potential specification impacts include:
\- DCI format with a small payload size
\- Reuse existing format by fixing some DCI bits
If new AL is supported, the potential specification impacts include:
\- Mechanism for codeword generation and mapping to CCEs
\- CORESET duration extension
\- Related signaling design
If PDCCH transmission via CORESET bundling is supported, the potential
specification impacts include:
\- CORESET bundling configuration
\- DMRS design among CORESET bundling
If PDCCH-less is supported, the potential specification impacts include:
\- Mechanism or resource allocation for indicating scheduling information for
SIB1 and/or SI message in L1 signals(s)/channels(s) other than PDCCH
# 10 Definition and constraining of reduced capabilities
## 10.1 Definition of reduced capabilities
At least for RedCap UE identification, explicit definition of RedCap UE
type(s) is needed. Pending conclusions on the reduced complexity features (as
described in clauses 7 and 12) and RedCap UE identification (as described in
clause 11), the definition of the RedCap UE types can be based on one of:
\- Option 1: All the reduced capabilities recommended at the end of the RedCap
study
\- Option 2: Only include the reduced capabilities that the network needs to
know during initial access, if any.
\- Option 3: All the recommended reduced capabilities as well as recommended
power saving features
\- Option 4: The corresponding minimum set of the reduced capabilities that
one RedCap UE type shall mandatorily support
If early identification during initial access is supported, at least maximum
supported UE bandwidth during initial access (20 MHz for FR1 and 100 MHz for
FR2) is included in the set of L1 capabilities of the device type for RedCap
early identification. Note that this does not preclude the case where the
early indication only indicates whether it is a RedCap UE or which type of the
RedCap UEs if multiple UE types are defined.
As a baseline, the existing UE capabilities framework is used to indicate the
capabilities of RedCap UEs. As currently specified in Rel-16, the UE reports
its radio access capabilities at least when the network requests the UE to do
so.
The network should be able to control whether RedCap UEs can access the cell
and differentiate them from other, non-RedCap UEs. The number of different UE
types should be minimised to reduce market fragmentation, and UE types should
be introduced only where essential to control UE accesses and differentiate
them from other non-RedCap UEs.
The UE capabilities can be categorized as:
\- Minimum mandatory capabilities that all RedCap UEs support, if identified.
\- Optional capabilities, to be signalled explicitly.
For capability signalling of RedCap UEs, the following scenarios are possible,
however feasibility, applicability of the cases and the final division to
categories depend on the exact RedCap capabilities (to be defined):
\- For the features that are mandatory for non-Redcap UEs:
\- The Redcap UE mandatorily supports the feature with the same value.
\- The Redcap UE mandatorily supports the feature, but with different value
(e.g. bandwidth value).
\- The Redcap UE optionally supports the feature.
\- The Redcap UE does not support the feature at all.
\- For the features that are optional for non-Redcap UEs:
\- The Redcap UE does not support the feature at all.
\- The Redcap UE supports the feature with a different value.
\- The Redcap UE supports the feature with the same value.
\- The Redcap UE mandatorily supports the feature.
Based on the above categorization and possible scenarios, the following
capability design principle alternatives can be considered:
Alternative 1:
\- The UE capability requirements for a RedCap device type, that are different
from those for non-RedCap UEs, are listed in the specifications. That is:
\- Mandatory features for non-RedCap UEs that are not applicable for RedCap
UEs.
\- Mandatory features for non-RedCap UEs that are optional for RedCap UEs.
\- Mandatory features for non-RedCap UEs that are supported for RedCap UEs but
with different value.
\- Optional features for non-RedCap UE that are not applicable for RedCap UE.
\- Optional features for non-RedCap UE that are mandatorily supported for
RedCap UE.
For a RedCap device type, define new signalling fields in UE capability
signalling for the features that are mandatory without capability signalling
for non-RedCap UEs but are optional for Redcap UEs, or mandatory with
capability signalling for non-RedCap UEs but with different value for RedCap
UEs. Such new signalling is only applicable for RedCap UEs.
Alternative 2:
\- Directly define the UE capabilities required for RedCap devices, including:
\- Mandatory features for RedCap UEs (defined in specification).
\- Optional features for Redcap UEs (introduce signalling fields in an
independent container defined specifically for Redcap UE).
The network should know whether the UE is a RedCap UE or not in order to
handle UE capabilities properly (see also Clause 11.1 on UE identification).
The following options, which do not need to be mutually exclusive, can be
considered for further analysis and down-selection:
\- Option 1: RedCap device type is indicated as part of the capability
signalling.
\- Option 2: Define a new IE specifically for RedCap UEs containing RedCap-
specific capabilities. The IE is included in the signalling only by Redcap
UEs.
\- Option 3: The network identifies RedCap UEs based on identification
solution (see Clause 11.1), e.g. during Msg1, Msg3, MsgA, etc, (pending RAN1
conclusion). The identification is forwarded it to target gNB during handover.
\- Option 4: The network identifies RedCap UE based on the reported
capabilities, assuming the identification can be done through RedCap-specific
capabilities not used by non-RedCap UEs.
From RAN2 perspective, the pros and cons to define only one device type or
multiple device types are:
Only one RedCap UE type:
Pros:
\- No market fragmentation of \"types\".
\- Simpler specification, e.g. on early identification, access control, etc.
\- Avoid non-technical discussion outside 3GPP\'s scope, e.g. product
management, similar to the discussions on LTE categories.
Cons:
\- Cannot provide independent access control for different UE types, if this
was deemed necessary.
Multiple RedCap UE types:
Pros:
\- Flexible access control is possible if necessary, e.g. independent access
control for different UE types.
Cons:
\- Potential market fragmentation of \'types\' leading to loss of economies of
scale and increased device costs.
\- More specification complexity/effort, e.g. on early identification, access
control, etc.
\- May lead to non-technical discussion outside 3GPP\'s scope, e.g. product
management, similar to the discussions on LTE categories.
The need on independent access control for different RedCap UE types is not
discussed in the SI phase.
## 10.2 Constraining of reduced capabilities
### 10.2.1 Description of feature
The study also includes an objective on how to ensure RedCap UEs are only used
for intended use cases, that is, UE identifying as RedCap UE can only use
services and resources intended for RedCap UE type. The following potential
solutions can be considered (the solutions do not need to be mutually
exclusive):
\- **Option 1** : RRC Reject based approach
When the network knows the UE is a RedCap UE and the type of the service
requested, RAN can reject an RRC connection establishment attempt if the
service the UE requests is not allowed for RedCap UEs. The service type can be
known, e.g., based on the establishment cause provided in Msg3, through higher
layer mechanisms or other ways.
\- **Option 2** : Subscription validation (Note: SA2, CT1 confirmation is
needed)
During the RRC connection setup, the UE indicates that it is a RedCap UE to
the core network, e.g.
\- UE includes this indication in NAS signalling message to core network; or
> \- UE informs this indication during its RRC connection establishment
> procedure to RAN; RAN then informs core network of the UE\'s RedCap type in
> the Initial UE Context message to core network.
The network validates UE\'s indication against its subscription plan, which
includes information such as the set of services allowed for the UE. Network
then decides whether to accept or reject UE\'s registration request. For
example, network may reject UE if UE indicates RedCap, but its subscription
does not include any RedCap-specific services.
\- **Option 3** : Verification of RedCap UE
Network performs capability match between UE\'s reported radio capabilities
and the set of capability criteria associated with UE\'s RedCap type.
\- **Option 4** : Left up to network implementation to ensure RedCap UE uses
intended services and/or resources.
The decision on which option or options to choose will be made during a
possible normative phase, and if needed, based on consultation with other
working groups (e.g. SA2, CT1).
# 11 UE identification and access restrictions
## 11.1 UE identification
### 11.1.1 Description of feature
RedCap UEs need to be identified in order to ensure the network can provide
services properly in the cell, e.g., to schedule messages and to possibly
restrict the UE\'s access to the network.
The necessity on when RedCap UE needs to be identified depends on when the
network needs to have information of the UE type in order to properly schedule
the UE e.g. during the initial access.
Feasibility, necessity, pros and cons for the following schemes for
identification of RedCap UEs have been studied:
\- Option 1: During Msg1 transmission
\- E.g., via separate initial UL BWP, separate PRACH resource, or PRACH
preamble partitioning
\- Option 2: During Msg3 transmission
\- Option 3: Post Msg4 acknowledgment.
\- E.g., during Msg5 transmission or part of UE capability reporting
\- Option 4: During MsgA transmission
\- E.g., via separate initial UL BWP, or in MsgA preamble part via separate
PRACH resource or PRACH preamble partitioning, or in MsgA PUSCH part
The following observations have been made regarding Option 1, Option 2, Option
3 and Option 4.
**Option 1: During Msg1 transmission:**
Feasibility: Identification of RedCap UE type(s) during transmission of Msg1
could be feasible from the perspective of RAN1, at least for the following
solutions:
\- Separation of PRACH resources (e.g., occasions and/or formats) or PRACH
preambles between RedCap and non-RedCap UEs
\- Separation of initial UL BWP for RedCap and non-RedCap UEs
The appropriateness of each solution, considering the number of UE type(s) to
be indicated, etc., would need further considerations.
Necessity: Early identification of RedCap UE type(s) during transmission of
Msg1 may be necessary for:
\- Coverage recovery (including link adaptation) for one or more of: Msg2
PDCCH/PDSCH, Msg3 PUSCH and PDCCH scheduling Msg3 retransmission, Msg4
PDCCH/PDSCH or PUCCH in response to Msg4, Msg5 PUSCH and associated PDCCH, if
it is determined that coverage recovery for RedCap UEs is necessary for one of
more of these channels
\- Identifying UE minimum processing times capabilities for PDSCH processing
and PUSCH preparation, if relaxations to UE min processing times are defined
for N~1~ and N~2~
\- Identifying UE capability for UL modulation order for Msg3 and Msg5
scheduling, if relaxations to max UL modulation order (i.e., UL modulation
order restricted to lower than 64QAM) are introduced
\- Identifying UE max bandwidth capability for Msg3 and Msg5 scheduling and
PUCCH in response to Msg4
Exact necessity depends on outcome of studies on UE cost/complexity reduction
and coverage recovery, and the SI on Coverage Enhancements [5].
Pros and cons: The pros and cons listed in Table 11.1.1-1 are identified for
identification of RedCap UE type(s) during transmission of Msg1.
Table 11.1.1-1: Pros and cons for identification of RedCap UE type(s) during
transmission of Msg1
**Pros** **Cons**
* * *
Enables efficient handling of different UE minimum processing times between
RedCap and non-RedCap UEs for: minimum timing between PDSCH carrying RAR and
start of Msg3 PUSCH; minimum timing between PDSCH carrying Msg4 and the
corresponding HARQ-ACK feedback; minimum timing between PDCCH with the
retransmission grant and the corresponding Msg3 PUSCH retransmission, if
relaxed UE min processing times are introduced for RedCap UEs. Potential
reduction in PRACH user capacity (for the options based on separation of PRACH
preambles), impacting both RedCap and non-RedCap UEs respectively, e.g., if
the total PRACH resources in the cell is not increased. The exact impact
depends on numbers of device type(s)/sub-types/capabilities to be identified
and exact details of PRACH preamble partitioning schemes. Enables coverage
recovery, including link adaptation, for any one or more of: broadcast PDCCH,
PDSCH associated with Msg2, PDSCH associated with Msg4, and PUSCH associated
with Msg3, if coverage recovery is needed for these channels. Potential
increase in UL OH from PRACH (for the options based on separation of PRACH
resources), impacting both RedCap and non-RedCap UEs. The option of
configuring separate initial UL BWPs, in addition to the above pros, enables
address congestion (if congestion may occur) in the initial UL BWP that may
otherwise need to be restricted to the mandatory required BW for RedCap UEs in
the band/FR. Potential increase in UL OH and complexity in configuration and
maintenance of multiple initial UL BWP for the gNB, for the option of
configuring separate initial UL BWPs. Enables RRC connection rejection of
RedCap UE for access restriction (for UEs coming from RRC_IDLE and
RRC_INACTIVE if the UE context is not found). The indication mechanisms in
this category may be limiting in terms of the number of further sub-
types/capabilities within RedCap device type that may be distinguished, if
such sub-types/capability indication are introduced. Makes it possible to
differentiate or enable prioritization of non-RedCap UEs vs. RedCap UEs during
contention resolution if RedCap UE type is visible to MAC layer. Higher impact
to RAN1 and RAN2 specifications as well as increased SIB signalling OH
compared to other options. Enables the RedCap UE to operate in an initial BWP
which is wider than the RedCap UE bandwidth, as the gNB can take into account
UE RF-retuning time while transmitting RAR  
Enables handling of different processing delay requirements (if such are
agreed and specified) for RRC procedures between RedCap and non-RedCap i.e.
RRC Setup -> RRC Setup Complete and RRC Resume and RRC Resume Complete delays.
**Option 2: During Msg3 transmission:**
Feasibility: Identification of RedCap UE type(s) during transmission of Msg3
may be feasible, at least for the following solutions:
\- Using the spare bit in existing Msg3 definition
\- Extending the Msg3 size to carry additional one or more bits, indicating
RedCap UE type(s)
\- Introduction of new larger RRC message (e.g. on CCCH1)
\- New MAC control element or LCID
The option of carrying identification as part of UCI multiplexed in Msg3 PUSCH
was not studied. The appropriateness and feasibility of each solution,
considering the number of UE type(s) to be indicated, coverage performance for
Msg3, etc., would need further considerations.
Necessity: If early identification of RedCap UE type(s) via Option 1 is not
supported, identification of RedCap UE type(s) during transmission of Msg3 may
be necessary for coverage recovery (including link adaptation) for one or more
of: Msg4 PDCCH/PDSCH, Msg5 PUSCH and associated PDCCH. Exact necessity depends
on outcome of studies on coverage recovery and the SI on Coverage Enhancements
[5].
From higher layer perspective, whether it is needed for the network to
identify a RedCap UE during reception of Msg3 depends on whether Msg4 and/or
Msg5 need special handling and whether there is a need to provide opportunity
for the network to reject connection establishment based on that the UE is a
RedCap UE.
Pros and cons: The pros and cons listed in Table 11.1.1-2 are identified for
identification of RedCap UE type(s) during transmission of Msg3.
Table 11.1.1-2: Pros and cons for identification of RedCap UE type(s) during
transmission of Msg3
**Pros** **Cons**
* * *
Enables coverage recovery (if needed) and/or appropriate link adaptation for
PDSCH (and associated PDCCH and PUCCH) for Msg4, and scheduling of Msg5. If
only the spare bit in Msg3 is used, it would consume the single spare bit
currently available in Msg3 payload, and this may not be desirable. Limited
impact to RAN1 specifications if only the spare bit in Msg3 payload is
utilized. If extended Msg3 size is introduced, mechanisms to enable detection
between use of legacy Msg3 and extended Msg3 definitions necessary. The option
of extending Msg3 size may offer good scalability in the number of bits for
such UE identification; e.g., if sub-types of RedCap device types (if defined)
are to be indicated in Msg3. The option of only using the spare bit in Msg3
scales poorly -- limiting to a single-bit indication may not be sufficient if
intending to distinguish between further sub-types/capabilities within RedCap
device type, if RedCap UE sub-types/capabilities are defined in the context of
RedCap UE identification. Enables RRC connection rejection of RedCap UE for
access restriction (for UEs coming from RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE if the UE
context is not found). Cannot facilitate additional coverage recovery
(including separate link adaptation) for broadcast PDCCH and/or Msg2 PDSCH,
and/or Msg3 PUSCH (and associated PDCCH) for RedCap UEs. Makes it possible to
differentiate or enable prioritization of non-RedCap UEs vs. RedCap UEs during
contention resolution if RedCap UE type is visible to MAC layer. If UE minimum
processing times are relaxed, cannot facilitate scheduling with separate
minimum timing relationships for RedCap UEs (compared to non-RedCap UEs)
between PDSCH carrying RAR and start of Msg3 PUSCH; minimum timing between
PDCCH with the retransmission grant and the corresponding Msg3 PUSCH
retransmission. This could result in increased initial access latency for non-
RedCap UEs. Enables handling of different processing delay requirements (if
such are agreed and specified) for RRC procedures between RedCap and non-
RedCap i.e. RRC Setup -> RRC Setup Complete and RRC Resume and RRC Resume
Complete delays. May degrade reliability/coverage of Msg3 in case of increased
Msg3 payload size. Cannot address the issue where Msg3 is scheduled with a
bandwidth/hopping range larger than the maximum RedCap UE bandwidth in the UL
initial BWP.
**Option 3: Post Msg4 transmission:**
Feasibility: Identification of RedCap UE type(s) during transmission of Msg5
or as part of UE capability reporting are feasible options from the
perspective of RAN1. From RAN2 perspective this is already covered by existing
signalling with limited specification impact.
Necessity: If early identification of RedCap UE type(s) via Options 1, 2, or 4
are not supported, then RedCap UE type(s) need to be identified either during
transmission of Msg5 or as part of UE capability reporting.
Pros and cons: The pros and cons listed in Table 11.1.1-3 are identified for
identification of RedCap UE type(s) during transmission of Msg5 or in UE
capability report.
Table 11.1.1-3: Pros and cons for identification of RedCap UE type(s) during
transmission of Msg5 or in UE capability report
**Pros** **Cons**
* * *
This option of UE capability reporting offers a simple option for indication
of RedCap UE type, including possibility of indicating further RedCap sub-
types/capabilities if introduced. Cannot facilitate additional coverage
recovery (if needed) or separate link adaptation for broadcast PDCCH and/or
Msg2 and/or Msg4 PDSCH, and/or Msg3 PUSCH for RedCap UEs. Too conservative
scheduling and link adaptation for all UEs imply increased system OH for
initial access in the initial DL and UL BWPs. Limited or no impact to RAN1 and
RAN2 specifications. If UE minimum processing times are relaxed, cannot
facilitate scheduling with separate minimum timing relationships for RedCap
UEs between PDSCH carrying RAR and start of Msg3 PUSCH; minimum timing between
PDSCH carrying Msg4 and the corresponding HARQ-ACK feedback; minimum timing
between PDCCH with the retransmission grant and the corresponding Msg3 PUSCH
retransmission. This could result in increased initial access latency for non-
RedCap UEs. Cannot address the issue where Msg3 or PUCCH in response to Msg4
or Msg5 is scheduled with a bandwidth/hopping range larger than the maximum
RedCap UE bandwidth in the UL initial BWP. Cannot enable RRC connection
rejection of RedCap UE for RedCap-specific access restriction (for UEs coming
from RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE if the UE context is not found)
**Option 4: During MsgA transmission:**
Feasibility: Identification of RedCap UE type(s) during transmission of MsgA
could be feasible, at least for the following solutions:
\- Separation of 2-step RACH resources (e.g., occasions and/or formats) or
MsgA preambles between RedCap and non-RedCap UEs
\- Separation of initial UL BWP for RedCap and non-RedCap UEs
\- Using a new indication in MsgA PUSCH part
The appropriateness of each solution, considering the number of UE type(s) to
be indicated, etc., would need further considerations.
Necessity: Early identification of RedCap UE type(s) during transmission of
MsgA may be necessary for:
\- Coverage recovery (including link adaptation) for MsgA transmission (UE
selection of RedCap specific 2-step resources, i.e. MsgA indication in
preamble part).
\- Coverage recovery (including link adaptation) for MsgB and later messages,
and associated PDCCH.
Pros and cons: Due to the differences the pros and cons for identification of
RedCap UE type(s) during transmission of MsgA with indication in the MsgA
preamble part are listed in Table 11.1.1-4, and the pros and cons for
identification of RedCap UE type(s) during transmission of MsgA with
indication in the MsgA PUSCH part are listed in Table 11.1.1-5.
Table 11.1.1-4: Pros and cons for identification of RedCap UE type(s) during
transmission of MsgA in preamble part
**Pros** **Cons**
* * *
Enables coverage recovery, including link adaptation, for any one or more of:
MsgA, broadcast PDCCH, PDSCH associated with MsgB. Potential reduction in
2-step RACH user capacity (for the option based on separation of PRACH
preambles), impacting both RedCap and non-RedCap UEs respectively, e.g., if
the total 2-step RACH resources in the cell is not increased. The exact impact
depends on numbers of device type(s)/sub-types/capabilities to be identified
and exact details of PRACH preamble partitioning schemes. The option of
configuring separate initial UL BWPs, in addition to the above pros, address
congestion (if congestion may occur) in the initial UL BWP that may otherwise
need to be restricted to the mandatory required BW for RedCap UEs in the
band/FR. Potential increase in UL OH from 2-step PRACH (for the options based
on separation of PRACH resources), impacting both RedCap and non-RedCap UEs.
Enables RRC connection rejection of RedCap UE for access restriction (for UEs
coming from RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE if the UE context is not found).
Potential increase in UL OH and complexity in configuration and maintenance of
multiple initial UL BWP for the gNB, for the option of configuring separate
initial UL BWPs. Makes it possible to differentiate or enable prioritization
of non-RedCap UEs vs. RedCap UEs during contention resolution if RedCap UE
type is visible to MAC layer. The indication mechanisms in this category may
be limiting in terms of the number of further sub-types/capabilities within
RedCap device type that may be distinguished, if such sub-types/capability
indication are introduced. In case of fallback from 2-step to 4-step RACH
during MsgA PUSCH failure, possibility for coverage recovery. Higher impact to
RAN1 and RAN2 specifications as well as increased SIB signalling OH compared
to other options.
Table 11.1.1-5: Pros and cons for identification of RedCap UE type(s) during
transmission of MsgA in PUSCH part
**Pros** **Cons**
* * *
Enables coverage recovery, including link adaptation, for MsgB and later
messages. Cannot provide coverage recovery for MsgA transmission. Enables RRC
connection rejection of RedCap UE for access restriction (for UEs coming from
RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE if the UE context is not found). Either MsgA PUSCH
part need to be differentiated for RedCap UEs and non-RedCap UEs, or the will
be impact on non-RedCap UEs from the increases MsgA PUSCH size. More limited
impact to specifications May degrade reliability/coverage of MsgA PUSCH in
case of increased MsgA PUSCH payload size. The option of MsgA PUSCH indication
may offer good scalability in the number of bits for such UE identification,
e.g., if sub-types of RedCap device types (if defined) are to be indicated in
MsgA. Cannot provide coverage recovery in case of PUSCH failure and fallback
to 4-step RACH. Makes it possible to differentiate or enable prioritization of
non-RedCap UEs vs. RedCap UEs during contention resolution if RedCap UE type
is visible to MAC layer.
## 11.2 Access restrictions
### 11.2.1 Description of feature
NG-RAN supports overload and access control functionality such as RACH back
off, RRC Connection Reject, RRC Connection Release and UE based access barring
mechanisms. The purpose of the feature is to not only provide the same
functionality as for legacy UEs but to have RedCap specific access
restrictions to be able to avoid or limit negative impact on legacy
performance.
### 11.2.2 Cell barring
For RedCap UEs, an explicit or implicit indication in broadcast system
information can be used to indicate whether a RedCap UE can camp on the cell
or not. If a RedCap UE is not allowed to camp on a cell or the RedCap UE
considers the cell as barred, it could be of interest to bar all cells on the
frequency to ensure RedCap UEs only camp on the strongest cell. Legacy UEs
have the same functionality and the IE intraFreqReselection configures in the
UE should consider only the current cell as barred or all cells on the
frequency. For RedCap it remains to be determined if the functionality should
be controlled by the same intraFreqReselection IE or if a new separate
parameter should be introduced.
### 11.2.3 Unified access control
The unified access control (UAC) framework is specified in TS 22.261 and it
applies to all UEs in RRC_IDLE, RRC_CONNECTED and RRC_INACTIVE. This mechanism
should also apply to RedCap UEs to control RedCap UEs accesses to the network.
In UAC each access attempt is associated with an Access Category and one or
more Access Identities (defined in TS 24.501). As baseline, the legacy
principles apply to RedCap UEs and further details on using Access
Identitiy(ies) and Access Categories are to be discussed during normative
phase. One option, also to be discussed further in the normative phase, is
that the network is able to differentiate between RedCap and non-RedCap UEs
using UAC.
The possible solutions for RedCap UAC that have been considered in the study
are the following (the options do not need to be mutually exclusive):
\- Define one or more RedCap specific Access Identities. Access Identities are
connected to the UE type and are (currently) used to lift the barring for
certain identities, e.g. for special access classes or UEs configured for
prioritized services.
\- Define RedCap specific Access Categories. Access Categories are related to
the type of access attempt and is set per access attempt type depending on
what triggered the access (set by NAS if NAS triggered, or by RRC if AS
triggered). There can only be one Access Category per access attempt. To be
able to treat different RedCap access attempt types differently, e.g. apply
different barring to different access types, multiple Access Categories for
RedCap could be defined.
\- Use some of the operator defined Access Categories for RedCap. The
description of the previous solution applies also to this solution, the
difference is that this solution has no specification impact but cannot be
used for initial attach to the network since it depends to CN configuration of
the UE.
\- Broadcast a different set of UAC parameters for RedCap UEs. This makes it
possible for NW to flexibly and separately provide UAC parameters for RedCap
UEs while avoiding impact on UAC configuration of non-RedCap UEs.
\- Use existing broadcasted UAC parameters for RedCap UEs with no changes,
that is, the same UAC parameters apply for all UEs (non-RedCap UEs and RedCap
UEs) and no new Access Categories and Access Identities are defined. This
option requires no specification changes.
UAC is defined in TS 22.261 and TS 24.501, and feasibility of the options
(e.g. defining new Access Identities or Access Categories) should be consulted
with SA1/CT1.
### 11.2.4 RRC connection reject
To save radio resources and limit negative impact on legacy network
performance it is beneficial to bar or reject UEs as early as possible,
preferably without additional signalling. Therefore, cell barring and UAC is
beneficial compared to RRC connection rejection. However, if the network is
aware of the UEs type during initial access, it is possible for the network to
reject RRC connection based on the UE type. There is no additional
specification impact in case early indication is specified.
### 11.2.5 Analysis of coexistence with legacy UEs
The purpose of the RedCap access restrictions is to eliminate or limit the
impact on legacy UEs. The impact for enabling any of above features is an
increase is in OH due to added parameters in SI broadcast signalling.
One possibility is that separate RACH configuration is provided for RedCap
UEs. In such case, it would be possible to configure different RACH parameters
to RedCap and non-RedCap UEs, such as different maximum number for preamble
transmission, different back-off timer after an attempt or a different power
ramping step for RedCap UEs.
### 11.2.6 Analysis of specification impacts
Cell barring would have small impact on RAN2 specification if explicit
indication is used, and if a separate _intraFreqReselection_ parameter is
introduced for RedCap. With an implicit indication e.g. implicit from the
presence of RedCap configuration in SI, there would be no additional
specification impact from cell barring.
For UAC, using operator defined Access Categories for RedCap would not have
any specification impact. Introducing new Access Categories or Access Identity
for RedCap would have SA1 and CT1 specification impact. Introducing a separate
configuration for RedCap UE would increase the amount of broadcast system
information.
Supporting RRC connection reject would have no specification impact.
# 12 Impact to network capacity and spectral efficiency
The system-level simulation (SLS) evaluations for the impacts of UE complexity
reduction and antenna inefficiency to network capacity and spectrum efficiency
[3] are summarized in Table D-1 to D-25 in Annex D. The methodology for the
SLS evaluations is described in clause 6.4. Burst traffic model and optional
full buffer traffic are considered.
The impact from potential coverage recovery techniques is reflected in some of
the SLS results in the sense that we allow the PDSCH/PUSCH spectral efficiency
to go lower due to, e.g. repetitions and/or HARQ transmissions (i.e. trading
data rate for coverage).
For burst traffic evaluation, FTP model 3 is assumed for eMBB users. The
assumption of traffic model for RedCap users varies across the sourcing
companies. The instant message (IM) traffic model which in average generates
an offered load of 400 kbps (0.1 MB payload every 2 s) is assumed for RedCap
users by some sourcing companies. Compared to the assumed traffic model for
the eMBB users which have an offered load of 20 Mbps (0.5 MB payload every 200
ms), the RedCap users will produce a very low data volume even with a 50-50
split of eMBB and RedCap users. The use of IM traffic for downlink capacity
evaluation corresponds to video surveillance and industrial wireless sensor
use cases for which traffic pattern is dominated by UL transmissions. In
addition, the IM traffic may also be possible for some low data rate wearable
use cases.
Some companies have considered to reuse the same FTP model 3 for RedCap users
by assuming wearable use cases have DL heavy traffic and the traffic pattern
is the same for RedCap users and eMBB users. It should be noted that among the
companies assuming FTP3 traffic model for RedCap, there may be differences in
the average traffic volume assumption. Such a difference may contribute to
different conclusion.
For burst traffic evaluation with IM traffic model for RedCap users:
\- 3 sources (Ericsson, Vivo, Qualcomm) observed that the RedCap users have
minor or no impact on spectral efficiency and capacity, and little impact to
the performance of co-existing eMBB users in the system
\- It is further noted that the 1 Rx RedCap users do not make an appreciable
change on the user throughput performance of the eMBB users compared to the 2
Rx RedCap users
For burst traffic evaluation with FTP model 3 for RedCap users:
\- One source (Nokia) with the respective simulation assumptions including the
schedulable bandwidth reported the user throughput performance of the eMBB
users is not degraded with the presence of the RedCap users in the system.
\- One source (Huawei/HiSilicon) with the respective simulation assumptions
including the schedulable bandwidth reported the impact on spectral efficiency
will be substantial. It is further observed substantial cell spectral
efficiency loss about 30% due to UE Rx antenna reduced from four to two and DL
modulation order restriction from 256QAM to 64QAM in FR1 and about 50%
spectral efficiency reduction due to UE Rx antenna reduced from four to one
and DL modulation order restriction from 256QAM to 64QAM in FR1.
For optional full buffer traffic evaluation:
\- One source (Nokia) with the respective simulation assumptions including the
schedulable bandwidth reported a minor degradation of the spectral efficiency
for the eMBB users and the degree of spectral efficiency loss is irrespective
of the number of Rx antennas for RedCap users.
\- One source (Huawei/HiSilicon) with the respective simulation assumptions
including the schedulable bandwidth reported the impact on spectral efficiency
will be substantial. It is further observed substantial cell spectral
efficiency loss about 54% due to UE Rx antenna reduced from four to two and DL
modulation order restriction from 256QAM to 64QAM in FR1 and about 70%
spectral efficiency reduction due to UE Rx antenna reduced from four to one
and DL modulation order restriction from 256QAM to 64QAM in FR1.
# 13 Conclusions and recommendations
UE complexity reduction techniques have been analysed individually in clauses
7.2 through 7.7 as well as in different combinations in clause 7.8
(cost/complexity), clause 9 (coverage recovery), and clause 12 (impact on
network capacity and spectral efficiency). The main observations from the
coverage recovery evaluations are summarized in clause 9.1.5.
Based on the analysis of the UE complexity reduction techniques, the following
is recommended for a RedCap UE.
\- Maximum UE bandwidth:
\- Maximum bandwidth of an FR1 RedCap UE during and after initial access is 20
MHz
\- Whether an FR1 RedCap UE can optionally support a maximum bandwidth larger
than 20 MHz after initial access can be discussed during the WI phase or at
RAN plenary.
\- Maximum bandwidth of an FR2 RedCap UE during and after initial access is
100 MHz
\- Number of Rx branches:
\- For FR1 FDD or FR2 bands where a non-RedCap UE is required to be equipped
with a minimum of 2 Rx branches, the minimum number of Rx branches supported
by specification for a RedCap UE is 1. The specification also supports of 2 Rx
branches for a RedCap UE.
\- For FR1 TDD bands where a non-RedCap UE is required to be equipped with a
minimum of 4 Rx branches, the minimum number of Rx branches supported by
specification for a RedCap UE is _N_ , where _N_ is to be down-selected during
the WI phase or at RAN plenary between the following alternatives:
\- Alt 1: _N_ =2
\- Alt 2: _N_ =1, where _N_ =2 is also supported
\- Number of DL MIMO layers:
\- For a RedCap UE with 1 Rx branch, the maximum number of DL MIMO layers is
1.
\- For a RedCap UE with 2 Rx branches, the maximum number of DL MIMO layers is
_M_ , where _M_ is to be down-selected during the WI phase or at RAN plenary
between the following options (where different options may be selected for FR1
FDD, FR1 TDD, and FR2, respectively):
\- Option 1: _M_ =1, where _M_ =2 is also supported
\- Option 2: _M_ =2
\- Half-duplex FDD operation:
\- HD-FDD operation type B is not supported for RedCap FR1 FDD UEs in Rel-17.
\- Decide at RAN plenary whether to have support FD-FDD or HD-FDD operation
type A or both by specification for an FR1 FDD RedCap UE.
\- Relaxed UE processing time:
\- Decide at RAN plenary whether to support relaxed UE processing time in
terms of N~1~ and N~2~ by specification for a RedCap UE.
\- Relaxed maximum modulation order:
\- Support of 256QAM in DL is optional (instead of mandatory) for an FR1
RedCap UE.
\- No other relaxations of maximum modulation order are supported by
specification for a RedCap UE.
The study of UE power saving through reduced PDCCH monitoring can be
summarized as follows:
\- The PDCCH monitoring reduction for RedCap UEs has been studied. The study
includes the evaluation of power saving benefit, system performance impacts,
coexistence impacts, potential schemes, and the corresponding specification
impacts.
\- The power saving benefit by PDCCH monitoring reduction for RedCap UEs has
been evaluated based on the agreed power model and traffic model, with the
results and observations captured in clause 8.2.2.
\- The system performance impact has been evaluated using PDCCH blocking rate
as the metric, with the results and observations captured in clause 8.2.3. In
addition, scheduling flexibility and latency impacts have also been studied in
clause 8.2.3.
\- Three candidate schemes for PDCCH monitoring reduction have been identified
and studied with the corresponding coexistence and specification impacts
captured in clause 8.2.4 and clause 8.2.5, respectively.
The study of UE power saving on extended DRX in RRC_INACTIVE and/or RRC_IDLE
can be summarized as follows:
\- Extended DRX for RedCap UEs for RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE have been
studied. The study includes analysis of UE power saving, possible upper and
lower bounds for eDRX cycles and study of possible mechanisms for eDRX for
RedCap UEs in clauses 8.3.1-8.3.4.
\- The upper bound for DRX cycles and shorter eDRX values than 5.12 seconds,
i.e. 2.56 seconds have been studied and options are discussed in clause 8.3.3.
\- Solutions for PTW and eDRX cycle configuration and which node should
configure the eDRX cycle for RRC_INACTIVE have been studied and solutions are
captured in clause 8.3.4.
Based on the study of UE power saving on extended DRX, the following are
recommended from RAN2 perspective, where feasibility is to be confirmed with
SA2 and/or CT1:
\- The applicable parts of eDRX mechanisms for LTE, including use of H-SFN, PH
and PTW are expected to be re-used for RedCap UEs.
\- It is recommended that for eDRX cycles below and equal to 10.24 seconds PTW
and PH is not used and that common design for handling eDRX cycle equal to
10.24 seconds in RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE is specified.
\- It is recommended eDRX cycles in RRC_IDLE are extended up to 10485.76
seconds, unless RAN4 indicates such eDRX value requires UE to perform RRM on
serving cell outside PTW.
\- It is recommended eDRX cycles in RRC_INACTIVE are extended > 10.24 seconds.
The study of UE power saving on RRM relaxation for stationary UEs can be
summarized as follows:
\- RRM relaxation for RedCap UEs has been studied. The study includes the
definition of the possible RRM relaxation triggers and the candidate RRM
relaxation methods for stationary UEs in clauses 8.4.2 and 8.4.3.
\- It is recommended that enabling or disabling RRM relaxation should be under
network\'s control.
\- RAN4 should be consulted on feasibility of any RRM relaxation methods which
are to be defined.
\- RRM relaxation has been studied for all the RRC states (RRC_IDLE,
RRC_INACTIVE and RRC_CONNECTED) and both for neighbour cell and for serving
cell measurements.
\- For RRC_CONNECTED, it is recommended that UEs which are fixed or immobile
are considered with higher priority compared to UEs which are slightly moving.
\- Irrespective of RRC state, serving cell RRM relaxation for RedCap UEs is
not recommended to be specified.
The study of reduced capability signaling framework can be summarized as
follows:
\- The studied alternatives and options for RedCap UE type definition and
categorization of RedCap capabilities are captured in clause 10.1. Down-
selection can be discussed further during WI phase.
\- At least for device type identification and possibly for constraining the
use of reduced capabilities, the network needs to know whether the UE is
RedCap UE or not.
\- As a baseline, the existing UE capability framework is used to indicate the
capabilities of RedCap UEs.
\- The capabilities for RedCap UEs can be categorized as mandatory
capabilities, which all RedCap UEs support, and possible optional
capabilities, signaled explicitly.
\- The final categorization of capabilities into the studied categories
depends on the exact capabilities applicable to RedCap UEs, to be defined
during the WI phase.
\- The network should be able to control that the RedCap UEs are only used for
the intended use cases, the studied solutions are listed in clause 10.2.
The study of identification and access restriction can be summarized as
follows:
\- RedCap early indication in Msg1, Msg3, MsgA, or in a later message have
been studied and analysis is presented in clause 11.1.1. The necessity of
early indication depends on the need for the network to know whether the UE
accessing the system is a RedCap UE during the initial access, e.g. depending
on the need of coverage recovery, different scheduling of RedCap UEs, or
additional access restrictions.
\- Different mechanisms for access control of RedCap UEs in RAN have been
studied and analysis is presented in clause 11.2.
\- System information indication has been studied in clause 11.2.2. It is
recommended to specify a system information indication to indicate whether a
RedCap UE can camp on the cell or not.
\- Unified access control is studied in clause 11.2.3. UAC should apply to
RedCap UEs and one option is that UAC can differentiate between RedCap and
non-RedCap UEs. Different solutions for RedCap UAC have been studied and down-
selection can be done in WI phase.
\- It is possible to use RRC connection reject (clause 11.2.4) if the network
knows the UE is a RedCap UE, however, preferably access control should happen
earlier.
###### ### Annex A: UE power saving results
In the following tables for UE power saving results, Case 1 and Case 2
represent the following:
\- Case 1: Power saving gain at approximately 25% reduction in BDs
\- Case 2: Power saving gain at approximately 50% reduction in BDs
# A.1 UE power saving results for FR1
Table A.1-1: Power Saving gain, FR1, Same-Slot Scheduling, 1 Rx antenna
# | Company | IM traffic model | Heartbeat traffic model | VoIP traffic model | Schemes (Note 1) | Notes |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | IAT = 200ms | IAT = 80ms |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 1 | Case 2 |  |   
1 | vivo | 3.54% | 7.08% | 2.29% | 4.59% | 2.13% | 4.25% | 2.85% | 5.70% | S1 |   
|  | - | 6.32% | - | 4.07% | - | 4.16% | - | - | S2 | Note 2  
|  | - | 9.72% | - | 4.44% | - | 4.38% | - | - | S2 | Note 2, 3  
|  | - |  | - | - | - | - | 3.80% | 5.70% | S1 | Note 4, 5  
2 | Ericsson | 0.70% | 1.30% | 0.01% | 0.02% | 0.01% | 0.02% | 1.19% | 2.22% | S1 | Note 6  
|  | 2.42% | 4.49% | 0.01% | 0.02% | 0.01% | 0.02% | 2.64% | 4.90% | S1 | Note 4  
|  | 0.32% | 0.59% | 0.01% | 0.02% | 0.01% | 0.02% |  |  | S1 | Note 6B  
3 | Qualcomm | 3.22% | 6.44% | 0.96% | 1.92% | 0.65% | 1.30% | 1.53% | 3.06% | S1 | Note 7  
4 | CATT | 1.83% | 3.67% | 1.10% | 2.20% | 1.04% | 2.08% | 0.90% | 1.82% | S1 |   
5 | Spreadtrum | 5.70% | 11.40% | 3.40% | 6.80% | 3.20% | 6.40% | 3.10% | 6.00% | S1 |   
6 | OPPO | 3.51% | 7.02% | 2.48% | 4.96% | 2.38% | 4.76% | - | - | S1 | Note 4  
7 | Huawei, HiSilicon | 0.71% | 1.41% | 0.21% | 0.41% | 0.18% | 0.36% | 2.58% | 5.16% | S1 | Note 4, 8A,9A  
|  | 0.75% | 1.53% | 0.21% | 0.41% | 0.18% | 0.36% | 2.75% | 5.24% | S1 | Note 4, 8B, 9A  
|  | 2.57% | 5.14% | 2.11% | 4.06% | 1.96% | 3.91% | 3.71% | 6.23% | S1 | Note 4, 8A, 9B  
|  | 2.88% | 5.65% | 2.15% | 4.29% | 1.98% | 3.93% | 3.88% | 6.48% | S1 | Note 4, 8B, 9B  
8 | Apple | 4.46% | 8.92% | 2.66% | 5.33% | - | - | - | - | S1 | Note 4  
|  | 3.38% | 6.77% | 0.65% | 1.32% | - | - | - | - | S1 | Note 4, 10  
9 | Futurewei | 2.70% | 5.40% | 0.50% | 1.10% | 0.30% | 0.60% | 2.20% | 4.40% | S1 |   
10 | Intel | 3.31% | 6.4% | 2.24% | 4.75% | 2.03% | 4.36% | - | - | S1 | Note 11, 12  
|  | 3.2% | 6.2% | 2.1% | 4.16% | 1.76% | 3.81% | - | - | S1 | Note 13, 12  
11 | ZTE | 4.15% | 8.29% | 2.60% | 5.21% | 2.29% | 4.57% | - | - | S1 | Note 4  
12 | InterDigital | 4.40% | 8.80% | 1.16% | 2.04% | 0.45% | 0.92% |  |  | S1 | Note 4  
Note 1: 'S1' represents Scheme#1, 'S2' represents Scheme#2, 'S3' represents Scheme#3 Note 2: _X_ = 2 Note 3: Multi-slot scheduling Note 4: DL-only Note 5: Size budget reduction by decoupling the configuration of DCI format 0_1 and 1_1, VOIP like DL only traffic Note 6: DL and UL (for VoIP, traffic is 50% in DL and 50% in UL) Note 6B: DL and UL (For IM traffic and Heartbeat, traffic is 50% in DL and 50% in UL) Note 7: slots "DDDU" Note 8A: BD reduction with the same DCI size budget. Note 8B: BD reduction by reducing DCI size budget. Note 9A: UE can only transit to micro sleep in connected mode. Note 9B: UE can transit to micro sleep, light sleep and deep sleep in connected mode according to the sleep duration. Note 10: Wake-Up Signal (WUS) Note 11: TDD: DDDDDDDSUU Note 12: TDD: DDDSUDDSUU Note 13: 1 packet requires 1 PDSCH for Heartbeat traffic model; 1 packet requires 24 PDSCHs for IM model, assuming cell centre UE. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table A.1-2: Power Saving gain, FR1, Cross-Slot Scheduling, 1 Rx antenna
# | Company | IM traffic model | Heartbeat traffic model | VoIP traffic model | Schemes (Note 1) | Notes |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | IAT = 200ms | IAT = 80ms |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 1 | Case 2 |  |   
1 | vivo | 3.13% | 4.77% | 1.95% | 2.98% | 1.80% | 2.75% | 2.47% | 3.76% | S1 |   
2 | Ericsson | 0.66% | 0.81% | 0.01% | 0.01% | 0.01% | 0.01% | 1.14% | 1.39% | S1 | Note 2  
|  | 2.39% | 2.91% | 0.01% | 0.02% | 0.01% | 0.02% | 2.62% | 3.19% | S1 | Note 3  
|  | 0.30% | 0.36% | 0.01% | 0.01% | 0.01% | 0.01% |  |  | S1 | Note 2B  
3 | Samsung | 4.50% | 9% | 2.70% | 5.50% | 2.60% | 5.10% | 3.50% | 7% | S1, S2 | Note 3  
|  | 4.50% | 9% | 2.70% | 5.50% | 2.60% | 5.10% | 4.50% | 3.5% | S3 |   
4 | Qualcomm | 2.82% | 4.30% | 0.79% | 1.20% | 0.52% | 0.80% | 1.28% | 1.94% | S1 | Note 4  
5 | OPPO | 2.77% | 5.54% | 2.13% | 4.25% | 2.04% | 4.07% | - | - | S1 | Note 3  
6 | Apple | 4.05% | 6.17% | 2.29% | 3.50% | - | - | - | - | S1 | Note 3  
|  | 2.98% | 4.53% | 0.54% | 0.82% | - | - | - | - | S1 | Note 3, 5  
7 | ZTE | 3.7% | 7.4% | 2.28% | 4.57% | 2.03% | 4.05% | - | - | S1 | Note 3  
8 | MediaTek | 2.43% | 4.45% |  |  |  |  | 2.72% | 5.41% | S1 | Note 6  
|  | 0.84% | 1.68% |  |  |  |  | 0.87% | 1.74% | S1 | Note 7  
Note 1: 'S1' represents Scheme#1, 'S2' represents Scheme#2, 'S3' represents Scheme#3 Note 2: DL and UL (for VoIP, traffic is 50% in DL and 50% in UL) Note 2B: DL and UL (For IM traffic and Heartbeat, traffic is 50% in DL and 50% in UL) Note 3: DL-only Note 4: slots "DDDU" Note 5: Wake-Up Signal (WUS) Note 6: Baseline: static cross-slot scheduling (FR1: k0=2) + PDCCH monitoring periodicity of 1 slot Note 7: Baseline: static cross-slot scheduling (FR1: k0=2) + PDCCH monitoring periodicity of 4 slots |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table A.1-3: Power Saving gain, FR1, Same-Slot Scheduling, 2 Rx antenna
# | Company | IM traffic model | Heartbeat traffic model | VoIP traffic model | Schemes (Note 1) | Notes |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | IAT = 200ms | IAT = 80ms |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 1 | Case 2 |  |   
1 | vivo | 4.22% | 8.44% | 2.88% | 5.76% | 2.71% | 5.43% | 3.45% | 6.89% | S1 |   
|  | - | 8.99% | - | 7.02% | - | 6.87% | - | - | S2 | Note 2  
|  | - | 9.58% | - | 7.56% | - | 6.89% | - | - | S2 | Note 2, Note 3  
|  | - | - | - | - | - | - | 4.60% | 6.89% |  | Note 4, Note 5  
2 | Ericsson | 0.95% | 1.76% | 0.01% | 0.02% | 0.01% | 0.02% | 1.56% | 2.89% | S1 | Note 6  
|  | 3.05% | 5.66% | 0.22% | 0.42% | 0.20% | 0.38% | 3.33% | 6.17% | S1 | Note 4  
|  | 0.44% | 0.82% | 0.01% | 0.03% | 0.01% | 0.02% |  |  | S1 | Note 6B  
3 | Qualcomm | 3.72% | 7.44% | 1.25% | 2.50% | 0.86% | 1.71% | 1.98% | 3.96% |  | Note 7  
4 | Nokia | - | 9.2% | - | 6.8% | - | 6.1% | - | - | S1 | Note 4  
5 | CATT | 2.16% | 4.12% | 1.30% | 2.61% | 1.23% | 2.46% | 1.16% | 2.32% | S1 |   
6 | Spreadtrum | 6.20% | 12.3% | 4.10% | 8.20% | 3.90% | 7.80% | 3.70% | 7.20% | S1 |   
7 | OPPO | 3.94% | 7.88% | 2.81% | 5.61% | 2.70% | 5.40% | - | - | S1 | Note 4  
8 | Huawei, HiSilicon | 0.64% | 1.55% | 0.24% | 0.47% | 0.21% | 0.41% | 2.79% | 5.69% | S1 | Note 4, 8A, 9A  
|  | 0.82% | 1.63% | 0.24% | 0.47% | 0.21% | 0.41% | 2.85% | 5.70% | S1 | Note 4, 8B, 9A  
|  | 1.47% | 4.92% | 2.19% | 4.39% | 2.00% | 3.99% | 2.96% | 6.31% | S1 | Note 4, 8A, 9B  
|  | 2.83% | 5.65% | 2.19% | 4.47% | 2.00% | 4.02% | 3.17% | 6.33% | S1 | Note 4, 8B, 9B  
9 | Apple | 5.10% | 10.1% | 3.30% | 6.60% | - | - | - | - | S1 | Note 4  
|  | 4.00% | 8.06% | 0.90% | 1.80% | - | - | - | - | S1 | Note 4, 10  
10 | Futurewei | 3.20% | 6.30% | 0.70% | 1.30% | 0.40% | 0.80% | 2.70% | 5.50% | S1 |   
11 | Intel | 3.46% | 6% | 2% | 4.13% | 2.4% | 5.12% | - | - | S1 | Note 11,13  
|  | 2.51% | 4.9% | 1.9% | 4.04% | 2.3% | 4.43% | - | - | S1 | Note 12,13  
12 | ZTE | 4.77% | 9.54% | 3.03% | 6.06% | 2.94% | 5.87% | - | - | S1 | Note 4  
13 | InterDigital | 5% | 10% | 1.20% | 2.40% | 0.64% | 1.28% | - | - | S1 | Note 4  
Note 1: 'S1' represents Scheme#1, 'S2' represents Scheme#2, 'S3' represents Scheme#3 Note 2: _X_ = 2 Note 3: Multi-slot scheduling Note 4: DL-only Note 5: Size budget reduction by decoupling the configuration of DCI format 0_1 and 1_1, VOIP like DL only traffic Note 6: DL and UL (for VoIP, traffic is 50% in DL and 50% in UL) Note 6B: DL and UL (For IM traffic and Heartbeat, traffic is 50% in DL and 50% in UL) Note 7: Slots "DDDU", Note 8A: BD reduction with the same DCI size budget. Note 8B: BD reduction by reducing DCI size budget. Note 9A: UE can only transit to micro sleep in connected mode. Note 9B: UE can transit to micro sleep, light sleep and deep sleep in connected mode according to the sleep duration. Note 10: Wake-Up Signal (WUS) Note 11: TDD: DDDDDDDSUU Note 12: TDD: DDDSUDDSUU Note 13: 1 packet requires 1 PDSCH for Heartbeat traffic model; 1 packet requires 24 PDSCHs for IM model, assuming cell centre UE. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table A.1-4: Power Saving gain, FR1, Cross-Slot Scheduling, 2 Rx antenna
# | Company | IM traffic model | Heartbeat traffic model | VoIP traffic model | Schemes (Note 1) | Notes |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | IAT = 200ms | IAT = 80ms |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 1 | Case 2 |  |   
1 | vivo | 3.80% | 7.61% | 2.50% | 4.99% | 2.34% | 4.68% | 3.04% | 6.07% | S1 |   
2 | Ericsson | 0.77% | 1.44% | 0.01% | 0.02% | 0.01% | 0.02% | 1.30% | 2.41% | S1 | Note 2  
|  | 2.46% | 4.57% | 0.64% | 0.78% | 0.58% | 0.71% | 2.71% | 5.02% | S1 | Note3  
|  | 0.36% | 0.67% | 0.01% | 0.02% | 0.01% | 0.02% |  |  | S1 | Note 2B  
3 | Samsung | 4.50% | 6.90% | 2.80% | 4.20% | 2.50% | 3.90% | 3.50% | 5.30% | S1, S2 | Note 3  
|  | 4.50% | 6.90% | 2.70% | 4.20% | 2.50% | 3.90% | 3.50% | 5.30% | S3 |   
4 | Qualcomm | 3.31% | 6.61% | 1.03% | 2.07% | 0.71% | 1.40% | 1.67% | 3.34% | S1 | Note 4  
5 | OPPO | 3.10% | 6.21% | 2.43% | 4.85% | 2.33% | 4.66% | - | - | S1 | Note 3  
6 | Apple | 4.69% | 9.38% | 2.90% | 5.70% | - | - | - | - | S1 | Note 3  
|  | 3.60% | 7.22% | 0.75% | 1.49% | - | - | - | - | S1 | Note 3, 5  
7 | ZTE | 4.35% | 8.7% | 2.76% | 5.52% | 2.47% | 4.94% | - | - | S1 | Note 3  
8 | MediaTek | 2.64% | 4.83% |  |  |  |  | 2.67% | 5.30% |  | Note 6  
|  | 0.88% | 1.76% |  |  |  |  | 0.83% | 1.65% |  | Note 7  
Note 1: 'S1' represents Scheme#1, 'S2' represents Scheme#2, 'S3' represents Scheme#3 Note 2: DL and UL (for VoIP, traffic is 50% in DL and 50% in UL) Note 2B: DL and UL (For IM traffic and Heartbeat, traffic is 50% in DL and 50% in UL) Note 3: DL-only Note 4: slots "DDDU", Note 5: Wake-Up Signal (WUS) Note 6: Baseline: static cross-slot scheduling (FR1: k0=2) + PDCCH monitoring periodicity of 1 slot Note 7: Baseline: static cross-slot scheduling (FR1: k0=2) + PDCCH monitoring periodicity of 4 slots |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
# A.2 UE power saving results for FR2
Table A.2-1: Power Saving gain, FR2, Same-Slot Scheduling, 1 Rx antenna
# | Company | IM traffic model | Heartbeat traffic model | VoIP traffic model | Scheme (Note 1) | Notes |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | IAT = 200ms | IAT = 80ms |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 1 | Case 2 |  |   
1 | Ericsson | 1.94% | 3.59% | 0.03% | 0.07% | 0.03% | 0.06% | 2.52% | 4.66% | S1 | Note2  
|  | 4.37% | 8.10% | 0.04% | 0.08% | 0.04% | 0.07% | 4.66% | 8.64% | S1 | Note 3  
|  | 0.77% | 1.43% | 0.03% | 0.06% | 0.03% | 0.05% |  |  | S1 | Note 2B  
2 | CATT | 4.53% | 9.07% | 2.97% | 5.93% | 2.75% | 5.50% | 2.88% | 5.76% | S1 |   
3 | Spreadtrum | 6.60% | 13.10% | 4.30% | 8.60% | 4.00% | 7.90% | 5.00% | 9.40% | S1 |   
4 | Futurewei | 4.40% | 8.70% | 2.00% | 1.00% | 0.50% | 1.10% | 3.90% | 7.90% | S1 |   
5 | Intel |  5.48%  | 10.62% |  4.78% | 7.94% |  3.36% |  6.6% |  |  | S1 | Note 4,5  
6 | ZTE | 5.76% | 11.52% | 3.55% | 7.11% | 3.09% | 6.18% | - | - | S1 | Note 3  
Note 1: 'S1' represents Scheme#1, 'S2' represents Scheme#2, 'S3' represents Scheme#3 Note 2: DL and UL (for VoIP, traffic is 50% in DL and 50% in UL) Note 2B: DL and UL (For IM traffic and Heartbeat, traffic is 50% in DL and 50% in UL) Note 3: DL-only Note 4: TDD: DDDSUDDDSU Note 5: 1 packet requires 1 PDSCH for Heartbeat traffic model; 1 packet requires 16 PDSCHs for IM model, assuming cell centre UE. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table A.2-2: Power Saving gain, FR2, Cross-Slot Scheduling, 1 Rx antenna
# | Company | IM traffic model | Heartbeat traffic model | VoIP traffic model | Scheme (Note 1) | Notes |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | IAT = 200ms | IAT = 80ms |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 1 | Case 2 |  |   
1 | Ericsson | 1.40% | 2.70% | 0.02% | 0.04% | 0.02% | 0.04% | 1.94% | 3.60% | S1 | Note 2  
|  | 3.65% | 6.76% | 0.03% | 0.06% | 0.03% | 0.05% | 3.94% | 7.31% | S1 | Note 3  
|  | 0.55% | 1.03% | 0.02% | 0.04% | 0.02% | 0.04% |  |  | S1 | Note 2B  
2 | Samsung | 6.30% | 12.70% | 4.20% | 8.30% | 3.90% | 7.60% | 6.50% | 13.10% | S1, S2 | Note 3  
|  | 6.30% | 12.70% | 4.20% | 8.30% | 3.90% | 7.60% | 6.50% | 13.10% | S3 | Note 3  
3 | ZTE | 5.33% | 10.67% | 2.56% | 5.13% | 2.45% | 4.9% | - | - | S1 | Note 3  
4 | MediaTek | 3.61% | 6.81% |  |  |  |  | 3.80% | 7.55% | S1 | Note 4  
|  | 1.96% | 3.92% |  |  |  |  | 2.06% | 4.12% | S1 | Note 5  
Note 1: 'S1' represents Scheme#1, 'S2' represents Scheme#2, 'S3' represents Scheme#3 Note 2: DL and UL (for VoIP, traffic is 50% in DL and 50% in UL) Note 2B: DL and UL (For IM traffic and Heartbeat, traffic is 50% in DL and 50% in UL) Note 3: DL-only Note 4: Baseline: static cross-slot scheduling (FR1: k0=2) + PDCCH monitoring periodicity of 1 slot Note 5: Baseline: static cross-slot scheduling (FR1: k0=2) + PDCCH monitoring periodicity of 4 slots |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table A.2-3: Power Saving gain, FR2, Same-Slot Scheduling, 2 Rx antenna
# | Company | IM traffic model | Heartbeat traffic model | VoIP traffic model | Scheme (Note 1) | Notes |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | IAT = 200ms | IAT = 80ms |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 1 | Case 2 |  |   
1 | Ericsson | 2.45% | 4.54% | 0.04% | 0.10% | 0.04% | 0.09% | 3.10% | 5.74% | S1 | Note 2  
|  | 4.84% | 8.96% | 0.06% | 0.11% | 0.05% | 0.10% | 5.13% | 9.51% | S1 | Note 3  
|  | 1.04% | 1.92% | 0.04% | 0.08% | 0.04% | 0.07% |  |  | S1 | Note 2B  
2 | CATT | 4.81% | 9.61% | 3.34% | 6.68% | 3.12% | 6.06% | 3.19% | 6.39% | S1 |   
3 | Spreadtrum | 6.80% | 13.6% | 4.90% | 11.9% | 4.6% | 9.2% | 5.5% | 10.5% | S1 |   
4 | Futurewei | 4.60% | 9% | 1.10% | 2.10% | 0.50% | 1.00% | 4.50% | 8.90% | S1 |   
5 | Intel | 4.43% | 9.73% | 4.2% | 7.80% | 4.57% | 8.74% | - | - | S1 | Note 4,5  
6 | ZTE | 6.01% | 12.03% | 4.03% | 8.07% | 3.64% | 7.29% | - | - | S1 | Note 3  
Note 1: 'S1' represents Scheme#1, 'S2' represents Scheme#2, 'S3' represents Scheme#3 Note 2: DL and UL (for VoIP, traffic is 50% in DL and 50% in UL) Note 2B: DL and UL (For IM traffic and Heartbeat, traffic is 50% in DL and 50% in UL) Note 3: DL-only Note 4: TDD: DDDSUDDDSU Note 5: 1 packet requires 1 PDSCH for Heartbeat traffic model; 1 packet requires 16 PDSCHs for IM model, assuming cell centre UE. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table A.2-4: Power Saving gain, FR2, Cross-Slot Scheduling, 2 Rx antenna
# | Company | IM traffic model | Heartbeat traffic model | VoIP traffic model | Scheme (Note 1) | Notes |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | IAT = 200ms | IAT = 80ms |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 1 | Case 2 |  |   
1 | Ericsson | 1.89% | 3.50% | 0.03% | 0.07% | 0.03% | 0.06% | 2.45% | 4.54% | S1 | Note 2  
|  | 4.12% | 7.64% | 0.04% | 0.08% | 0.04% | 0.07% | 4.44% | 8.22% | S1 | Note 3  
|  | 0.75% | 1.40% | 0.03% | 0.06% | 0.03% | 0.05% |  |  | S1 | Note 2B  
2 | Samsung | 6.60% | 13.20% | 4.90% | 9.60% | 4.60% | 8.90% | 6.80% | 13.7% | S1, S2 | Note 3  
|  | 6.60% | 13.20% | 4.90% | 9.60% | 4.60% | 8.90% | 6.80% | 13.7% | S3 | Note 3  
3 | ZTE | 5.53% | 11.05% | 3.08% | 6.17% | 2.7% | 5.4% | - | - | S1 | Note 3  
4 | MediaTek | 3.63% | 6.86% |  |  |  |  | 3.72% | 7.39% | S1 | Note 4  
|  | 1.96% | 3.91% |  |  |  |  | 1.97% | 3.95% | S1 | Note 5  
Note 1: 'S1' represents Scheme#1, 'S2' represents Scheme#2, 'S3' represents Scheme#3 Note 2: DL and UL (for VoIP, traffic is 50% in DL and 50% in UL) Note 2B: DL and UL (For IM traffic and Heartbeat, traffic is 50% in DL and 50% in UL) Note 3: DL-only Note 4: Baseline: static cross-slot scheduling (FR1: k0=2) + PDCCH monitoring periodicity of 1 slot Note 5: Baseline: static cross-slot scheduling (FR1: k0=2) + PDCCH monitoring periodicity of 4 slots |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
###### ### Annex B: PDCCH blocking rate results
In the following tables for PDCCH blocking rate results, Case 1, Case 2 and
Case 3 represent the following:
\- Case 1: Reference case with no reduction in BD limit
\- Case 2: Approximately 25% reduction in BD limit
\- Case 3: Approximately 50% reduction in BD limit
# B.1 PDCCH blocking rate results for FR1
Table B.1-1: PDCCH blocking rate for FR1, with 30kHz/20MHz, CORESET duration:
2 symbols, Delay toleration: 1, AL distribution: A1
# | Company | # users | # DCI sizes | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 3 | Notes |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  | # PDCCH candidates for AL [1,2,4,8,16] in Table 6.2-6 | PDCCH blocking rate | # PDCCH candidates for AL [1,2,4,8,16] in Table 6.2-6 | PDCCH blocking rate | Blocking rate increase relative to Case 1 | # PDCCH candidates for AL [1,2,4,8,16] in Table 6.2-6 | PDCCH blocking rate | Blocking rate increase relative to Case 1 |   
1 | Vivo | 2 | 2 | C1 | 2.02% | C1 | 3.52% | 1.5% | C1 | 3.59% | 1.6% |   
|  | 3 | 2 | C1 | 3.56% | C1 | 5.03% | 1.5% | C1 | 5.08% | 1.5% |   
|  | 4 | 2 | C1 | 4.82% | C1 | 6.39% | 1.6% | C1 | 7.01% | 2.2% |   
|  | 5 | 2 | C1 | 5.94% | C1 | 7.64% | 1.7% | C1 | 9.42% | 3.5% |   
|  | 1~5 | 2 | C1 | 0.25% | C1 | 0.41% | 0.2% | C1 | 0.41% | 0.2% | Note 1  
2 | Ericsson | 3 |  **Power | | | | measurement | reduction** | > saving | | | | within | | > gain**| | | | 20ms** | | > | | | | | | > According | | | | | | > to the | | | | | | > power | | | | | | > model in | | | | | | > TR | | | | | | > 38.840, | | | | | | > the power | | | | | | > | | | | | | consumption | | | | | | > is | | | | | | > | | | | | | calculated | | | | | | > during | | | | | | > one DRX | | | | | | > cycle = | | | | | | > 1280ms | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Mapping | 5ms | Baseline | > The | | | between | | | > baseline | | | serving SSB | | | > power | | | index and | | | > | | | the | | | consumption | | | associated | | | > is 2284.5 | | | measurement | | | > unit | | | time | | | > (NOTE) | | | pattern | | | | | | during the | | | | | | SMTC window | | | | | | is not | | | | | | configured | | | | | | | | | | | | Full SMTC | | | | | | window are | | | | | | measured | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Mapping | > UEs with | 1.875ms | 62.5% | Power | | between | > only 3 | | | consumption | | serving SSB | > neighbor | | | is 1975.125 | | index and | > SSBs | | | unit | | the | > (Cell 2) | | | | | associated | > to be | | | Power | | measurement | > measured | | | saving gain | | time | | | | is 13.54% | | pattern | | | | | | during the | | | | | | SMTC window | | | | | | is | | | | | | configured | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | > UEs with | 1.25ms | 75% | Power | | | > only 2 | | | consumption | | | > neighbor | | | is 1913.25 | | | > SSBs | | | unit | | | > (Cell 3) | | | | | | > to be | | | Power | | | > measured | | | saving gain | | | | | | is 16.25% | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | Considering | | | | | | one slot | | | | | | for | | | | | | synch | | | | | | ronization, | | | | | | one slot | | | | | | for paging | | | | | | reception, | | | | | | and time | | | | | | duration | | | | | | for serving | | | | | | SSB | | | | | | m | | | | | | easurement. | | | | | | The time | | | | | | interval | | | | | | between | | | | | | sync | | | | | | hronization | | | | | | and serving | | | | | | SSB | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | is 20ms. | | | | | | The average | | | | | | light sleep | | | | | | time is | | | | | | 19ms. | | | | | | Considering | | | | | | the | | | | | | neighbor | | | | | | SSB | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | is right | | | | | | after the | | | | | | serving SSB | | | | | | m | | | | | | easurement, | | | | | | the | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | time is | | | | | | 5ms. The | | | | | | deep sleep | | | | | | time is | | | | | | 1280-0.5- | | | | | | 0.5-19-0.5- | | | | | | 5=1254.5ms. | | | | | | The power | | | | | | consumption | | | | | | for | | | | | | synch | | | | | | ronization, | | | | | | paging | | | | | | reception, | | | | | | serving SSB | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | and | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | for SMTC | | | | | | window is | | | | | | 100 unit | | | | | | per | | | | | | m | | | | | | illisecond. | | | | | | The power | | | | | | consumption | | | | | | for light | | | | | | sleep and | | | | | | deep sleep | | | | | | are 20 unit | | | | | | and 1 unit | | | | | | per | | | | | | millisecond | | | | | | re | | | | | | spectively. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
The following table shows the average power consumption and power saving gain
when further expand the measurement interval from using three times scaling
factor to stopping measurement for 1 hour. The power calculation is performed
with the model in TR 38.840. For DRX cycle =1280ms, power saving gain of
25.17% can be achieved. Therefore, it is proposed to further enhance RRM
measurement relaxation by expanding the scenario of performing \"stop
measurement for 1 hour\" for stationary UEs.
**Table E.2.x-4** Power saving gain achieved by further expand the measurement
interval.
+-----------------------------------------+------------------------+ | | **DRX cycle = 1280ms** | +=========================================+========================+ | **Relative power consumption:** | 2.0374 | | | | | **3 times relax [unit]** | | +-----------------------------------------+------------------------+ | **Relative power consumption:** | 1.5246 | | | | | **stop measurment for 1 hour [unit]** | | +-----------------------------------------+------------------------+ | **Power saving gain** | 25.17% | +-----------------------------------------+------------------------+
#