# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
A new SI "Study on NR QoE management and optimizations for diverse services"
was approved for Release 17 at the 3GPP TSG RAN #86 meeting in [2]. The SI
aims **to study** the potential RAN side solution for supporting a generic
framework for triggering, configuring, collection and reporting of NR QoE
measurement for various 5G use cases.
# 1 Scope
The present document captures the results of study on NR QoE management and
optimizations for diverse services in RP-193256 [2]. It identifies to study
the framework for triggering, configuring, collection and reporting of NR QoE
measurement and study the potential impact on the related interface (e.g. F1,
NG, Xn interface).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".
[2] 3GPP RP-193256: "New SID: Study on NR QoE management and optimizations for
diverse services ".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.247: "Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS); Progressive Download and Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP (3GP-
DASH)".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.114: "IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia Telephony;
Media handling and interaction".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.118: "Virtual Reality (VR) profiles for streaming
applications".
[6] 3GPP TS 26.346: "Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS); Protocols
and codecs".
[7] 3GPP S5-205347: "LS on QoE Measurement Collection".
[8] 3GPP S4-201576: "LS Reply on New service type of NR QoE".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**QoE measurement:** An application layer measurement configured by OAM, see
details in [3] [4] [5] [6] for different service types.
**QoE report:** The result of a QoE measurement.
**Radio-related measurements:** Measurements on the radio layer, whose purpose
is to help network to further evaluate and improve the QoE.
**Radio-related information:** Information other than "radio-related
measurements", e.g. feature info, mobility history info or dual connectivity
status.
**RAN-visible QoE:** Includes RAN-visible QoE metrics and RAN-visible QoE
values.
**RAN-visible QoE metrics:** A subset of QoE metrics data collected from UE,
which are useful for RAN.
**RAN-visible QoE values:** A set of values derived from QoE metrics data
through a model/function defined in collaboration with SA4.
_**QoE measurement collection:** Collection of QoE measurements in the UE._
_**QoE measurement collection activation:** Initiation of a QoE measurement
collection requested by OAM, associated with an identifier included in the QoE
measurement configuration transmitted to the UE._
_**QoE measurement collection triggering:** The condition(s) configured by
OAM, whose fulfilment indicates to the UE that QoE measurement collection
configured by OAM can be activated._
_**QoE measurement collection deactivation:** Permanent stopping of a QoE
measurement collection of identifiers (previously configured) requested from
OAM transmitted to the UE, resulting in QoE measurement configuration release
in the UE._
_**QoE measurement reporting:** Delivery of the QoE report resulted from QoE
measurement collection from the UE to the RAN._
_**QoE measurement reporting pause:** An action resulting in temporary
stopping of QoE measurement reporting, where the QoE measurement collection is
not affected._
_**QoE measurement reporting resume:** An action resulting in resumption of a
previously paused QoE measurement reporting._
> NOTE: The above definitions may need further adaptation, to align with SA5
> and RAN2.
>
> NOTE: The handling of RAN-visible measurement collection activation,
> triggering and deactivation, as well as RAN-visible QoE reporting pause and
> resume can be defined in normative phase.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
LTE Long Term Evolution
MBS Multicast and Broadcast Service
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast and Multicast Service
MCE Measurement Collection Entity
MDT Minimization of Drive-Tests
MTSI Multimedia Telephony Service for IMS
NR NR Radio Access
QMC QoE Measurement Collection
QoE Quality of Experience
TCE Trace Collection Entity
UE User Equipment
URLLC Ultra-Reliable Low Latency Communication
VR Virtual Reality
XR Extended Reality
# 4 General
NR QoE takes LTE QoE solution as baseline, where LTE QoE solution includes the
following key parts:
\- Both signalling based and management based initiated cases are allowed.
\- The LTE QoE feature is activated by Trace Function.
\- Application layer measurement configuration received from OAM or CN can be
encapsulated in a transparent container, which is forwarded to UE in a
downlink RRC message. Application layer measurements received from UE's higher
layer can be encapsulated in a transparent container and sent to network in an
uplink RRC message.
# 5 5G services, QoE metrics and UE KPI information
NR QoE supports the Application Layer Measurement Collection functionality.
This functionality enables the collection of application layer measurements
from the UE. The supported service types include:
> \- Streaming services [3];
>
> \- MTSI services [4];
>
> \- VR [5];
>
> \- MBMS [6];
>
> \- XR.
Support for additional service types is not precluded.
In addition to the QoE metrics, the radio related measurements and information
to assist the NR QoE management functionality are considered.
# 6 Potential NR QoE solutions and procedures
## 6.1 Signalling-based procedures
### 6.1.1 Signalling-based activation procedure
The procedure is used for activating the QoE measurement configured by OAM and
triggered by CN shown in Figure 6.1.1-1.
The CN initiates the activation of the QoE measurement configured by OAM, and
sends the QoE measurement configuration to the NG-RAN node. UE AS layer sends
the QoE measurement configuration to UE application layer.
Configuration and Reporting for multiple simultaneous QoE measurements for a
UE can be supported.
UE application layer generates the QoE report and sends it to the UE AS layer.
UE AS layer sends the QoE report to NG-RAN node via a separate SRB (separate
from current SRBs) in NR, as this reporting is lower priority than other SRB
transmissions. Then the NG-RAN node transmits the QoE report to the final
destination configured (e.g. TCE/MCE).
RRC segmentation may be needed for transmission of QoE reports, and any
potential solutions need detailed technical specification of the procedures.
Management based QoE configuration should not override signalling based QoE
configuration.
Figure 6.1.1-1 Signalling-based NR QoE activation procedure
### 6.1.2 Signalling-based deactivation procedure
The procedure is used for deactivating the QoE measurement configured by OAM
and triggered by CN shown in Figure 6.1.2-1.
The CN initiates the deactivation of QoE measurement, as configured by OAM,
and sends the deactivation indication to the NG-RAN node to indicate which QoE
measurement should be deactivated. The NG-RAN node sends the deactivation
indication to the UE AS layer, and then the UE AS layer sends the deactivation
indication to the UE application layer.
Figure 6.1.2-1 Signalling-based NR QoE deactivation procedure
## 6.2 Management-based procedures
### 6.2.1 Management-based activation procedure
The procedure is used for activating the QoE measurement configured and
triggered by OAM shown in Figure 6.2.1-1.
The OAM sends the QoE measurement configuration to NG-RAN node. NG-RAN finds
multiple qualified Ues that meet the criteria (e.g. area scope, application
layer capability, service type, etc.) or a single specific UE. NG-RAN node
sends the QoE measurement configuration to the AS layer of the specific UE or
each qualified UE. UE AS layer sends the QoE measurement configuration to UE
application layer. When a session starts, the application layer in UE checks
the criteria (e.g. cell list, service type, etc.), and, if the criteria are
met, starts QoE measurement and reporting.
Configuration and Reporting for multiple simultaneous QoE measurements for a
UE can be supported.
In case multiple QoE measurements are configured at a UE, it can be discussed
in the normative phase whether one measurement is configured per service type
at the UE.
UE application layer sends the QoE report to the UE AS layer. UE AS layer
sends the QoE report to NG-RAN node via a separate SRB (separate from current
SRBs) in NR, as this reporting is lower priority than other SRB transmissions.
Then the NG-RAN node transmits the QoE report to the final destination
configured (e.g. the MCE).
RRC segmentation may be needed for transmission of QoE reports, and any
potential solutions need detailed technical specification of the procedures.
Management based QoE configuration should not override signalling based QoE
configuration.
Regarding Management-based configuration towards an individual specific UE,
the following needs to be considered:
  * The OAM is currently not capable of sending the QoE measurement > configuration for a specific UE towards its serving gNB when the > targeted UE becomes RRC_CONNECTED. This is because OAM is not > informed about when a specific Ues served by a certain gNB become > RRC_CONNECTED.
  * There is currently no UE identifier available in OAM which can be > used to identify an UE connected to a certain gNB.
  * Although it is acknowledged that QoE measurement configuration > towards an individual specific UE is already possible using > signalling based configuration (via the CN), it should be noted > that OAM can issue per-user policies for which the feedback in > terms of user experience is required.
Figure 6.2.1-1 Management-based NR QoE activation procedure
### 6.2.2 Management-based deactivation procedure
The procedure is used for deactivating the QoE measurement triggered by OAM
shown in Figure 6.2.2-1.
OAM sends the deactivation indication to NG-RAN node to indicate which QoE
measurement should be deactivated.
If the NG-RAN node receives the indication that the QoE measurement
configuration is to be deactivated, then NG-RAN node sends the deactivation
indication to the UE AS layer, and the UE AS layer sends it to the application
layer in UE.
Figure 6.2.2-1 Management-based NR QoE deactivation procedure
## 6.3 QoE measurement triggering and stopping
**QoE measurement triggering and stopping can be realized using time-based
and/or threshold-based criteria, configured by the OAM. Time-based QoE
measurement triggering and stopping in NR is achieved by reusing mechanisms
specified in LTE for the start and stop of QoE measurements. Threshold-based
QoE measurement triggering and stopping allows to start and stop QoE
measurement when given thresholds are passed.**
Meanwhile, RAN is not allowed to intervene, i.e. pause, activate or de-
activate an ongoing QoE measurement collection unless instructed otherwise by
the OAM.
## 6.4 Release of QoE measurement configuration
**An NG-RAN node can issue a release of QoE measurement configuration for Ues
previously configured for QoE measurement reporting, provided that the session
for which the QoE measurements are reported is completed.**
**RAN may need to release an ongoing QoE measurement configuration or QoE
reporting configuration, e.g. if handing over to a network that does not
support this.**
## 6.5 QoE measurement handling at RAN overload
In case of RAN overload in standalone connectivity, RAN can stop new QoE
measurement configurations, release existing QoE measurement configurations
and pause QoE measurement reporting. RRC signaling is used by the gNB to
indicate the UE to pause or resume the QoE reporting. Potential solutions of
pause/resume mechanism need detailed technical specification of the
procedures, e.g. pause/resume for all QoE reports or pause/resume per QoE
configuration, how long can the UE store the reports, limit for stored reports
size etc.
The details of QoE measurement handling at RAN overload in dual connectivity
might be discussed in normative phase.
## 6.6 Support for Mobility
Seamless mobility is a key functionality in NR and its impacts should be
measurable at the application layer. To enable measuring the impact of the
mobility on the application and users' QoE, it is required to support QoE
measurement reporting continuity in intra-system intra-RAT intra-node and
inter-node mobility scenarios: for intra-node mobility for both management-
based and signalling-based QoE. At least signalling-based QoE supports this
also in case of inter-node mobility. Support for management-based QoE will be
discussed in normative phase, with respect to the "Requirements from SA WGs"
below.
In LTE, to support the QoE measurement in mobility scenarios, the QoE
configuration is forwarded from the source eNB to the target eNB inside the
_Trace Activation_ IE over the X2 interface. The same IE is sent over the S1
interfaces for mobility scenarios when the X2 interface is not established
between the source and the target.
In NR, to support mobility for QoE measurements in RRC_CONNECTED state, the
QoE measurement configuration transfer is supported on the Xn and NG
interfaces, inside the _Trace Activation_ IE as a part of _UE Application
Layer Measurement Configuration IE_ that may contain multiple QoE
configurations for multiple service types. QoE measurements in RRC_IDLE and
RRC_INACTIVE state can be supported for MBS. To support keeping QoE
measurement configuration in RRC_INACTIVE state mobility, QoE measurement
configuration for a UE can be fetched from the node hosting the UE Context.
Whether UE stores its QoE configuration when going to RRC_INACTIVE state for
potential use when the UE moves back to RRC_CONNECTED state will be decided in
technical specification of the procedures.
In addition, the SA4 requirements for QoE measurements stipulate that the
client shall check the QoE configuration only when a session starts (see
"Requirements from SA WGs" below). This means that the client shall continue
the QoE measurements for an ongoing session even if the UE moves out of the
configured area. The SA4 requirements are RAT-independent and shall therefore
be applied to the mobility solution for QoE measurement in NR, as well. QoE
measurement reporting continuity in intra-system inter-RAT mobility scenarios
should therefore be prioritized in Rel-17. QoE measurement reporting
continuity in inter-system mobility scenarios may be handled in Rel-18.
Appropriate action for the case where the target RAT does not support the
source RAT configurations (including QoE configuration) is to be defined in
normative phase in coordination with RAN2. Other issues requiring
clarification in normative phase include how the area scope is configured to
cover inter-RAT mobility, how service continuity is dealt together with QoE
measurements for intra-RAT inter-node mobility, how the target RAT/system
knows if the source side has configured the QoE measurement for the concerned
UE.
For support of MR-DC, a selection between one or more of the following
alternatives may be done in normative phase:
> \- Alternative 1: No support -- only the MN can configure QoE in the UE, and
> QoE measurement reports are sent from the UE to the MN.
>
> \- Alternative 2: Flexible QoE configuration, i.e. may be done by either the
> MN or the SN.
>
> \- Alternative 3: Flexible QoE measurement reporting, i.e. may be done via
> either the MN leg or the SN leg (e.g. depending on load situation or on a
> need basis).
Alternatives 2 and 3 may be combined.
One example use case for MR-DC QoE support is that, for a DC-capable UE, the
RAN may want to determine whether to set up the DC for this UE or not. For
instance, if QoE performance with only one leg set up is sufficiently good,
then setting up the other leg may be unnecessary, i.e. it would unnecessarily
drain the UE's battery.
**Requirements from SA WGs:**
LS [7] from SA5 states "_It is essential that handover is supported for QoE
measurements_ ", and refers to:
> \- TS 28.404 **REQ-EUSPC-CON-1:** The operator shall have a capability to
> request collection of QoE information per end user service/end user service
> type for a specified area. The request may include an address of a
> collection centre to which the collected information shall be delivered.
>
> \- TS 26.114 clause 16.3, TS 26.247 clause 10.5 LocationFilter: "When
> present, this element indicates the geographic area(s) or location(s) where
> quality metric collection is requested."
>
> \- TS 26.114 clause 10.1, TS 26.247 clause 16.3: "The QoE configuration
> shall only be checked by the client when each session starts, and thus all
> logging and reporting criterias for an ongoing session shall be unaffected
> by any QoE configuration changes received during that session. This also
> includes evaluation of any filtering criterias, such as geographical
> filtering, which shall only be done when the session starts. Thus changes to
> the QoE configuration will only affect sessions started after these
> configuration changes have been received."
At the time of this study, SA4 has only specified QMC functionality (for QoE
configuration and reporting) for UMTS and LTE [8].
Other references that need to be considered for RAN3's work:
> \- TS 26.114 clause 16.5.1: "_The QoE configuration AT command +CAPPLEVMC
> may also indicate with an Within-area Indication if the UE is inside or
> outside a wanted geographic area. Such an indication may arrive with or
> without any QoE configuration container attached. If the MTSI client is
> informed that it is not inside the area, it shall not start any new QoE
> measurements even if it has received a valid QoE configuration container,
> but shall continue measuring for already started sessions._ " The same
> behaviour is described for the DASH client in TS 26.247 annex L.
\- TS 26.114 clause 16.5.2 XML configuration: _"Note that if geographical
filtering is handled on the network side (i.e. QoE reporting is turned on/off
by the network depending on the UE location), no LocationFilter should be
specified in the QoE Configuration, as this would mean two consecutive
filterings."_
To fulfil the SA4 and SA5 QoE requirements of mobility, the details of Area
Handling at mobility shall be addressed in the WI. For the Area Handling at
mobility there are three main options, as follows:
> \- Option 1, where the network is responsible for keeping track of whether
> the UE is inside or outside the area and configures / releases configuration
> accordingly.
>
> \- Option 2, where the network is responsible for keeping track of whether
> the UE is inside or outside the area, and the UE responsible to manage
> start/stop of QoE accordingly.
>
> \- Option 3, where the UE is responsible for area checking (UE has the area
> configuration) and to manage start/stop of QoE accordingly.
The mobility procedure adaptation for signalling-based vs. management-based
shall be addressed in the WI.
## 6.7 RAN visible QoE information reporting by UE
The RAN may not be able to understand or make use of the legacy QoE metrics,
as they are assembled by the OAM, sent inside containers and intended to be
processed by the Measurement Collection Entity in the network. If the RAN
needs to make use of the QoE concept, there might be requirements that QoE
information should be visible by the RAN. RAN-visible QoE information is
simplified QoE information abstracted from QoE metrics by UE, which the RAN
may use for various types of optimizations.
### 6.7.1 General principles and message flow
The RAN-visible QoE metrics can be derived from individual SA4-defined QoE
metrics deemed useful for the RAN, such as buffer level. RAN-visible QoE
metrics may be e.g. be simplified values derived from individual useful
SA4-defined QoE metrics or combinations of these values. SA4 to be consulted
on how the values are derived.
The following holds:
> \- The RAN-visible QoE can be used for all services.
>
> \- The RAN is responsible for assembling the RAN-visible QoE measurement
> configuration.
>
> \- The RAN is responsible for triggering i.e. activating the RAN-visible QoE
> measurement.
>
> \- Whether the RAN can explicitly ask the UE to report certain RAN-visible
> QoE metrics, or just an indication to report the fixed set of RAN-visible
> QoE metrics predefined per service type, is to be studied in the normative
> phase.
>
> \- The RAN should be able to configure RAN-visible QoE autonomously for a
> given service type only if the application layer QoE for the same service
> type is already configured.
>
> \- The RAN-visible QoE value can be generated by UE and QoE server.
>
> NOTE: RAN generating RAN-visible QoE values requires that RAN reads the QoE
> report in XML format, which is left to implementation.
>
> \- The RAN-visible QoE values are delivered to the RAN as a separate IE,
> visible to the RAN.
>
> \- The RAN is not allowed to change the existing configuration of legacy QoE
> metrics specified by SA4.
Figure 6.7.1-1 shows the message flow for RAN-visible QoE information
reporting.
Figure 6.7.1-1: RAN-visible QoE information reporting
> 1\. An NG-RAN node assembles and sends the RAN-visible QoE configuration to
> a UE, which may be sent along with the QoE measurement configuration
> container transmitted from the OAM, directly or via the CN.
>
> 2\. The UE receives and applies the RAN-visible QoE configuration and/or QoE
> measurement configuration container. The RAN-visible QoE configuration may
> be so that the corresponding RAN-visible QoE information that is reported
> can be a unique value or a combination of values reflecting the QoE metrics
> useful for RAN (such as buffer level). The RAN-visible report is provided
> from the application layer of the UE to the UE's RRC layer by means of an AT
> command. The UE's RRC layer then includes the RAN-visible report, along with
> the QoE report container, but as a separate IE, in the MeasReportAppLayer
> IE, and sends it to the RAN.
>
> 3\. The NG-RAN node reads the RAN-visible QoE information and/or forwards
> the (legacy) QoE report container to the QoE server accordingly.
> Alternatively, the OAM server may generate the RAN-visible QoE report and
> send it to the RAN.
### 6.7.2 Initial analysis on RAN visible QoE metrics
The table below takes the QoE metrics for streaming service as an example and
provides an initial analysis of potential benefits to RAN. In general, whether
any metric is beneficial for RAN when it is visible to RAN, should be studied
per metric in the normative phase.
**Table 6.7.2-1: Initial analysis on QoE Report visibility at RAN for
streaming service**
**Metric** **Description** **Initial analysis**
* * *
Round-trip time If Round-trip time is large, RAN could try to compensate based
on RAN part delay, but the cost might be significant. RTT is also related with
many factors like UE capability, radio quality, radio load, etc., to adjust
radio transmission delay for one user may impact other users, and the effect
for the whole system performance is unpredictable. Jitter duration There are
other factors affecting jitter, e.g. buffer size available at UE side,
processing delay etc., if RAN already fulfil QoS requirement, and Jitter
duration is still bad, further analysis are needed to see whether and what RAN
could do to improve. Corruption duration The time period from the NPT time of
the last good frame (since the NPT time for the first corrupted frame cannot
always be determined) before the corruption, to the NPT time of the first
subsequent good frame If the RAN can know the results of this metric, the RAN
can adjust the resource allocation of the UE to satisfy the user experience
Average Throughput RAN could measure RAN side throughput by itself and make
adjustment accordingly, so this metric has some relation with RAN, though the
benefit seems unclear. Initial playout delay From the fetch of the first media
Segment (or sub-segment) and the time at which media is retrieved from the
client buffer  
Device information... A list of device information objects This metric may
have potential privacy issues because it exposes the user information.
However, the videoWidth videoHeight in Device information may reflect the UE
expectations of QoE, it is possible that RAN schedule the UE first with higher
QoE expectation. Rendered viewports A list of viewports that have been
rendered during the media presentation This metric may have potential privacy
issues because it exposes the user behaviour Codec Information  
Buffer level A list of buffer occupancy level measurements during playout at
normal speed. If the RAN can know the results of buffer level, the RAN can
adjust the resource allocation of the UE to ensure there is enough buffer for
the streaming, this might help to improve the scheduling efficiency.
Representation switch events To record switch events during playout This
metric is also related with user behaviour during playout Play List A list of
playback periods. A playback period is the time interval between a user action
and whichever occurs soonest of the next user action, the end of playback or a
failure that stops playback This metric records the user action of playback
during playout. The playlist may be used to derive many other metrics, and an
example calculation of a few stalling-related metrics The initial stalling,
the frequency of stalling, and the stalling duration may reflect UE
experience, it is possible that RAN schedule the UE first with bad UE
experience to prevent further QoE degradation. MPD (Media presentation
description) Information This metric can be used to report Representation
information from the MPD, so that reporting servers without direct access to
the MPD can understand the used media characteristics Not sure if there are
any additional benefits if RAN understands the used media characteristics,
anyway RAN should first to behave according to the received QoS parameters
which actually reflect media characteristics. Interactivity Summary:
Summarizes the measurements of interactivity usage according to different
metrics such as user consumption of rendered interactivity content or
engagement with user interface (UI) functionality, such as viewing, clicking
on or selection of hyperlinks, radio buttons, check boxes and other forms of
UI displays or controls. This seems also to be related with user behaviour
during playout period. Interactivity Event List A time-ordered list of
interactivity events occurring during the playout of the main program, each
containing detailed information on the incidences of interactivity usage
during that event, as covered by an instance of the interactivity usage
report. Similar as above
## 6.8 Radio-related measurements and information for QoE
In order for the network to further evaluate and improve the QoE, the RAN
could also trigger radio-related measurements towards a certain UE, based on
the QoE measurement configuration received from the OAM. For triggering the
measurements, an existing mechanism, e.g. MDT procedure, can be used.
Collection of radio related measurements, if needed, should be done by
existing methods such as MDT, if the UE supports MDT in R17.
**The radio-related QoE measurements are reported for all types of supported
services, and they include MDT-like measurements and, potentially, additional
measurements related to the radio interface. If new radio-related
measurements, with respect to what is currently specified in MDT, are required
for NR QoE management, these additional radio-related QoE measurements will be
specified as a part of MDT measurements. Application-related QoE measurements
are only collected when the application session is ongoing. If these radio-
related measurements are used for assisting application-related QoE
measurements, it is beneficial and efficient if measurement collection and
reporting can start at the same time. If configured together e.g. using same
trace reference and time aligned, e.g. based on time stamps, correlation of
the results may be done by post processing. Besides radio-related measurement
results, radio-related information may also be reported.** Radio-related
information **may be reported even when radio-related measurements are not
triggered over the radio.**
Both of the radio-related measurement results and radio-related information,
if reported, should be aligned and correlated with the QoE report, using e.g.
trace ID.
## 6.9 Per-slice QoE measurement
### 6.9.1 Scenario and requirements
{width="4.227777777777778in" height="1.6645833333333333in"}
Figure 6.9.1-1: An example of the same service type served by different slices
Figure 6.9.1-1 is an example of the same service type served by different
slices. As shown in the figure, UE1 is served by Slice #1 and UE 2 is served
by Slice #2. If the Service Level Agreement (SLA) of Slice #1 and Slice #2 are
different, QoE of UE1 and UE2 may be different for the same service type.
Below are scenarios (included, but not limited) identified for per slice QoE
measurement collection for further analysis in normative phase:
**Table 6.9.1-1: Per-slice QoE measurement scenarios**
+------------+---------------------------+--------------------------+ | Scenario 1 | Different service types | service type 1 --slice 1 | | | uses different slices | | | | | service type 2 --slice 2 | +------------+---------------------------+--------------------------+ | Scenario 2 | Different service types | service type 1 --slice 1 | | | uses the same slice | | | | | service type 2 --slice 1 | +------------+---------------------------+--------------------------+ | Scenario 3 | The same service type | service type 1 --slice 1 | | | using different slice | | | | | service type 1 --slice 2 | +------------+---------------------------+--------------------------+
### 6.9.2 Solution
**Solution 1**
Example of sequence or steps of the solution are listed below:
> 1\. The OAM/CN transmits the QoE measurement configuration to the NG-RAN
> node, including Slice Scope (list of S-NSSAIs).
>
> 2\. The NG-RAN node can map the Slice Scope to the ongoing PDU session list
> and send the QoE measurement configuration with the PDU session list to the
> UE.
>
> 3\. The UE receives the QoE measurement configuration and sends it to the
> corresponding application layer according to the PDU session list.
>
> 4\. The UE sends the QoE report with PDU session ID to NG-RAN node.
>
> 5\. The NG-RAN node can remap the PDU session ID back to slice ID (S-NSSAI)
> and attach it in the QoE report.
>
> 6\. The NG-RAN node forwards the QoE report with slice ID to the MCE.
**Solution 2**
Example of sequence or steps of the solution are listed below:
> 1\. The OAM/CN transmits the QoE measurement configuration to the NG-RAN
> node, including Slice Scope.
>
> 2\. The NG-RAN node checks the Slice Scope with all of the ongoing PDU
> sessions and sends QoE measurement configuration to a UE with qualified PDU
> session, including Slice Scope.
>
> 3\. The UE receives the QoE measurement configuration and sends it to the
> corresponding application layer according to the Slice Scope. Whether
> Application layer or AS layer performs the mapping can be discussed at
> normative stage.
>
> 4\. The UE sends the QoE report with slice ID to the NG-RAN node.
>
> 5\. The NG-RAN node forwards the QoE report with slice ID to the MCE.
For solution 2, Slice Scope may be inside of the QoE configuration container
defined by SA4 and further confirmation with SA4 is needed.
For the case of same service type with different slice ID, detailed solution
might need confirmation from other working groups.
**Solution 3**
Example of sequence or steps of the solution are listed below:
> 1\. The OAM/CN transmits the QoE measurement configuration to the NG-RAN
> node, including the associated slice ID, outside the QoE configuration
> container, i.e. visible to the RAN.
>
> 2\. The NG-RAN node checks the slice ID against the ongoing PDU sessions,
> and sends QoE measurement configuration to a UE with qualified PDU session,
> including slice ID.
>
> 3\. The UE receives the QoE measurement configuration and performs QoE
> measurements.
>
> 4\. The UE sends the QoE report to the NG-RAN node and adds the slice ID
> outside the QoE report container.
>
> 5\. The NG-RAN node forwards the QoE report with slice ID to the MCE.
>
> 6\. For the case of same service type with different slice ID, detailed
> solution might need confirmation from other working groups
For all above solutions, Slice Scope is outside of the QoE configuration
container, which defined by SA4, and also needs confirmation with SA5. Slice
Scope is applied for all configured Area scope.
For signalling-based QoE, Slice Scope (e.g. list of S-NSSAIs) should be
transmitted to the target gNB during mobility.
For management-based QoE, Slice Scope can be clarified in normative stage.
The details of all solutions will be discussed in the normative phase.
# 7 Potential Impacts on NR specifications
For Per slice QoE measurement, the key impacts of the solutions can be found
in the Table 7-1 below:
**Table 7-1: Key impacts of the solutions**
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Cr |** RAN | **Core |** OAM | **UE |** SA4 | | iteria**| impact** | impact**| impact** | impact**| impact** | | | | | | | | | **So | | | | | | | lution** | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ** | I | N/A | Slice | NAS/AS | N/A | | Solution | ntroduce | | info | layer | | | 1**| slice | | outside | | | | | info in | | QoE | | | | | message. | | confi | | | | | | | guration | | | | | Slice | | file. | | | | | Scope | | | | | | | check. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The RAN | | | | | | | has to | | | | | | | perform | | | | | | | post-pr | | | | | | | ocessing | | | | | | | (t | | | | | | | ranslate | | | | | | | PDU | | | | | | | session | | | | | | | ID into | | | | | | | slice | | | | | | | ID) for | | | | | | | each QoE | | | | | | | mea | | | | | | | surement | | | | | | | report. | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ** | I | N/A | Slice | AS layer | Can be | | Solution | ntroduce | | info | or | e | | 2** | slice | | outside | App | valuated | | | info in | | and may | lication | in | | | message. | | inside | layer | n | | | | | the QoE | | ormative | | | Slice | | confi | | stage, | | | Scope | | guration | | e.g. | | | check | | file | | slice | | | | | | | info | | | | | | | inside | | | | | | | QoE | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | guration | | | | | | | file and | | | | | | | QoE | | | | | | | report | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ** | I | N/A | Slice | AS layer | N/A | | Solution | ntroduce | | info | | | | 3** | slice | | outside | | | | | info in | | the QoE | | | | | RRC | | confi | | | | | message. | | guration | | | | | | | and | | | | | Slice ID | | report | | | | | check | | file | | | | | before | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | figuring | | | | | | | UE for | | | | | | | mea | | | | | | | surement | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Slice ID | | | | | | | check at | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | eception | | | | | | | of QoE | | | | | | | report | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Potential impacts on RAN2 specifications.
> \- RRC signalling definition for QoE configuration and reporting, including
> aspects related to SRBs and multiple QoE configurations
>
> \- RRC signalling definition for RAN overload handling, e.g.
> pause/resume/release procedures
>
> \- RRC impact related to mobility handling for signalling-based and
> management-based QoE
>
> \- RRC signalling and procedures for handling QoE measurements in RRC_IDLE/
> RRC_INACTIVE state
>
> \- RRC signalling and procedure definition for RAN-visible QoE configuration
> and reporting (the specification impact depends on the exact solution)
# 8 Conclusion
The following features are recommended by RAN3 to be specified in Rel-17
normative phase:
> \- Signalling-based activation/deactivation
>
> \- Management-based activation/deactivation
>
> \- QoE measurement handling at RAN overload
>
> \- Multiple QMC support
>
> \- QoE continuity for intra-RAT mobility
>
> \- QoE measurement in RRC_INACTIVE
>
> \- RAN visible QoE
>
> \- Per-slice QoE measurement
>
> \- Alignment of MDT and QoE measurements
The following features are recommended by RAN3 to be deprioritized in Rel-17
normative phase:
> \- QoE continuity for Inter-system mobility
>
> \- QoE measurement in RRC_IDLE
>
> \- QoE continuity for Inter-RAT mobility
>
> \- QoE support for MR-DC
# Annex A (informative): Change history
* * *
**Change history**  
**Date** **Meeting** **Tdoc** **CR** **Rev** **Cat** **Subject/Comment** **New
version** 2020.08 RAN3 109-e R3-205723 - - - TR skeleton 0.0.0 2020.08 RAN3
109-e R3-205725 - - - Introduction of supported service types 0.1.0 2020.11
RAN3 110-e R3-207185 - - - RAN visible QoE information reporting by UE 0.2.0
2020.11 RAN3 110-e R3-207186 - - - radio related measurements and information
0.2.0 2020.11 RAN3 110-e R3-207187 - - - QoE measurement triggering, reporting
and releasing 0.2.0 2020.11 RAN3 110-e R3-207192 - - - Per slice QoE
measurement for NR QoE 0.2.0 2020.11 RAN3 110-e R3-207213 - - - Signalling-
based signalling for NR QoE 0.2.0 2020.11 RAN3 110-e R3-207225 - - -
Management based signalling for NR QoE 0.2.0 2020.11 RAN3 110-e R3-207217 - -
- Mobility Support for NR QoE 0.2.0 2021.02 RAN3 111-e R3-211356 - - -
Agreements on mobility 0.3.0 2021.02 RAN3 111-e R3-211357 - - - Introduction
of essential definitions 0.3.0 2021.02 RAN3 111-e R3-211339 - - - Clean-up of
mismatching 0.3.0 2021.02 RAN3 111-e R3-211358 - - - Agreements on
configuration and reporting 0.3.0 2021.02 RAN3 111-e R3-211341 - - -
Agreements on per slice QoE measurement 0.3.0 2021.02 RAN3 111-e R3-211342 - -
- Agreements on QoE visibility at the RAN 0.3.0 2021.02 RAN3 111-e R3-211343 -
- - QoE feature ranking 0.3.0