# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document is related to the technical report for this study item
\"Scenarios and Requirements for Next Generation Access Technologies\" [1].
The objective of the study item is to identify the typical deployment
scenarios associated with attributes such as carrier frequency, inter-site
distance, user density, maximum mobility speed, etc, and to develop
requirements for next generation access technologies for the identified
deployment scenarios taking into account, but not limited to, the ITU-R
discussion on IMT-2020 requirements.
This document contains scenarios and requirements for next generation access
technologies, which can be used as not only guidance to the technical work to
be performed in 3GPP RAN WGs, but also input for ITU-R to take into account
when developing IMT-2020 technical performance requirements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
[1] 3GPP SID FS_NG_SReq: \"Scenarios and Requirements for Next Generation
Access Technologies\" RP-152257, "New Study Item Proposal - Study on Scenarios
and Requirements for Next Generation Access Technologies", CMCC, RAN#70,
Sitges, Spain, Dec. 7 - 11, 2015.
[2] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TR 22.891: \"Feasibility Study on New Services and Markets Technology
Enablers\".
[4] Recommendation ITU-R M.2083: IMT Vision - \"Framework and overall
objectives of the future development of IMT for 2020 and beyond\"​ (September
2015).
[5] ITU-R report M.2135, Guidelines for evaluation of radio interface
technologies for IMT-Advanced.
[6] 3GPP TR 36.878: \"Study on performance enhancements for high speed
scenario in LTE\".
[7] 3GPP TR 23.799: \" Study on Architecture for Next Generation System\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.303: \" Proximity-based services (ProSe); Stage 2\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.179: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) over LTE; Stage
1\".
[10] 3GPP TS 22.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers for LTE
(GCSE_LTE)\".
[11] 3GPP TR 36.890: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Study on single-cell point-to-multipoint transmission for E-UTRA\".
[12] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[13] 3GPP TS 22.071 \"Location Services (LCS); Service description; Stage 1\".
[14] 3GPP TS 22.153: \"Multimedia priority service\".
[15] 3GPP TS 22.268: \"Public Warning System (PWS) requirements\".
[16] 3GPP TS 33.106: \"3G security; Lawful interception requirements\".
[17] 3GPP TS 22.185: \"Service requirements for V2X services\".
[18] 3GPP TS 22.886: \"Study on enhancement of 3GPP Support for 5G V2X
Services\".
[19] 3GPP TR 33.899: \"Study on the security aspects of the next generation
system\".
[20] 3GPP TS 22.280: \"Mission Critical Services Common Requirements (MCCoRe);
Stage 1\".
[21] 3GPP TS 22.281: \"Mission Critical Video services over LTE\".
[22] 3GPP TS 22.282: \"Mission Critical Data services over LTE\".
[23] 3GPP TS 22.346: \"Isolated Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
Network (E-UTRAN) operation for public safety; Stage 1\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Transmission Reception Point (TRxP)** : Antenna array with one or more
antenna elements available to the network located at a specific geographical
location for a specific area.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
t_gen The time during which data or access request is generated
t_sendrx The time during which data or access request is sent or received
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [2] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [2].
ARPU Average Revenue Per User
BBU Baseband Unit
BS Base Station
CAPEX Capital Expenditure
CDF Cumulative Distribution Function
CN Core Network
D2D Device to Device
DL Downlink
DRX Discontinuous Reception
EE Energy Efficiency
eMBB enhanced Mobile BroadBand
EMF Electric and Magnetic Fields
eNB evolved Node B
eV2X enhanced Vehicle to Everything
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
GCSE_LTE Group Communication System Enablers for LTE
GEO Geostationary orbit
GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System
HEO High Earth Orbit
IMT International Mobile Telecommunicationss
InH Indoor Hotspot
ISD Inter-Site Distance
ITU International Telecommunication Union
ITU-R International Telecommunication Union Radiocommunication Sector
KPI Key Performance Indicator
LEO Low Earth Orbit
MEO Medium Earth Orbit
MBB Mobile BroadBand
MaxCL Maximum Coupling Loss
MCPTT Mission-Critical Push-To-Talk
mMTC massive Machine Type Communications
NR New Radio
OPEX Operational Expenditure
ProSe Proximity Services
QoE Quality of Experience
QoS Quality of Service
RAN Radio Access Network
RAT Radio Access Technology
RF Radio Frequency
RMa Rural Macro
RRH Remote Radio Head
RSU Roadside Unit
RTT Round Trip Time
Rx Receiver
SA Service and System Aspect
SC-PTM Single-Cell Point-to-Multipoint transmission
SDU Service Data Unit
SFN Single Frequency Network
SINR Signal-to-Interference-plus-Noise Ratio
SON Self Organized Network
TDD Time Division Duplex
TR Technical Report
TRxP Transmission Reception Point
Tx Transmitter
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
UMa Urban Macro
UMi Urban Micro
URLLC Ultra-Reliable and Low Latency Communications
V2X Vehicle to Everything
WG Working Group
WLAN Wireless Local Area Network
WRC World Radiocommunication Conference
# 4 Introduction
At the 3GPP TSG RAN #70 meeting, the Study Item description on \"Scenarios and
Requirements for Next Generation Access Technologies\" was approved [1].
The justification of the Study Item was that a fully mobile and connected
society is expected in the near future, which will be characterized by a
tremendous amount of growth in connectivity, traffic volume and a much broader
range of usage scenarios. Some typical trends include explosive growth of data
traffic, great increase of connected devices and continuous emergence of new
services. Besides the market requirements, the mobile communication society
itself also requires a sustainable development of the eco-system, which
produces the needs to further improve system efficiencies, such as spectrum
efficiency, energy efficiency, operational efficiency and cost efficiency. To
meet the above ever-increasing requirements from market and mobile
communication society, next generation access technologies are expected to
emerge in the near future. A study item to identify typical deployment
scenarios for next generation access technologies and the required
capabilities in each corresponding deployment scenarios should be considered.
# 5 Objectives
In order to meet the deployment scenarios and requirements, studies for next
generation access technologies should be carried out in at least, but not
limited to, the following areas, designs for next generation access
technologies RAN should strive for enough flexibility to support current
envisaged and future requirements for the different use cases, e.g., from SA1
3GPP TR 22.891 [3], i.e., to support for wide range of services.
# 6 Scenarios
## 6.0 General
This subsection briefly introduces the three usage scenarios defined by ITU-R
IMT for 2020 and beyond [4] is envisaged to expand and support diverse
families of usage scenarios and applications that will continue beyond the
current IMT. Furthermore, a broad variety of capabilities would be tightly
coupled with these intended different usage scenarios and applications for IMT
for 2020 and beyond. The families of usage scenarios for IMT for 2020 and
beyond include:
\- eMBB (enhanced Mobile BroadBand)
\- mMTC (massive Machine Type Communications)
\- URLLC (Ultra-Reliable and Low Latency Communications)
## 6.1 Deployment scenarios
Deployment scenarios for eMBB, mMTC and URLLC are described in this TR. Other
deployment scenarios related to eV2X (enhanced Vehicle to Everything) services
are also described in this TR. Not all requirements apply to all deployment
scenarios described in the TR. The mapping between requirements and deployment
scenarios is described per KPI in Chapter 7.However, some of eMBB deployment
scenarios may possibly be reused to evaluate mMTC and URLLC, or some specific
evaluation tests (e.g., link-level simulation) can be developed to check
whether the requirements can be achieved.
High-level descriptions on deployment scenarios including carrier frequency,
aggregated system bandwidth, network layout / ISD, BS / UE antenna elements,
UE distribution / speed and service profile are proposed in this TR. It is
assumed that more detailed attributes and simulation parameters, for example,
the channel model, BS / UE Tx power, number of antenna ports, etc. should be
defined in the new RAT study item.
### 6.1.1 Indoor hotspot
The indoor hotspot deployment scenario focuses on small coverage per site/TRxP
(transmission and reception point) and high user throughput or user density in
buildings. The key characteristics of this deployment scenario are high
capacity, high user density and consistent user experience indoor.
Some of its attributes are listed in Table 6.1.1-1.
Table 6.1.1-1: Attributes for indoor hotspot
+--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Attributes | Values or assumptions | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Carrier Frequency | Around 30 GHz or Around 70 GHz or | | | Around 4 GHz | | NOTE1 | | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Aggregated system bandwidth | Around 30GHz or Around 70GHz: Up | | | to 1GHz (DL+UL) NOTE3 | | NOTE2 | | | | Around 4GHz: Up to 200MHz (DL+UL) | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Layout | Single layer: | | | | | | - Indoor floor | | | | | | (Open office) | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | ISD | 20m | | | | | | (Equivalent to 12TRxPs per 120m x | | | 50m) | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | BS antenna elements NOTE4 | Around 30GHz or Around 70GHz: Up | | | to 256 Tx and Rx antenna elements | | | | | | Around 4GHz: Up to 256 Tx and Rx | | | antenna elements | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | UE antenna elements NOTE4 | round 30GHz or Around 70GHz: Up to | | | 32 Tx and Rx antenna elements | | | | | | Around 4GHz: Up to 8 Tx and Rx | | | antenna elements | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | User distribution and UE speed | 100% Indoor, 3km/h, | | | | | | 10 users per TRxP | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Service profile | NOTE: Whether to use full buffer | | | traffic or non-full-buffer traffic | | | depends on the evaluation | | | methodology adopted for each KPI. | | | For certain KPIs, full buffer | | | traffic is desirable to enable | | | comparison with IMT-Advanced | | | values. | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+
NOTE1: The options noted here are for evaluation purpose, and do not mandate
the deployment of these options or preclude the study of other spectrum
options. A range of bands from 24.25 GHz -- 52.6 GHz identified for WRC-19 are
currently being considered and around 30 GHz is chosen as a proxy for this
range. A range of bands from 66 GHz -- 86 GHz identified for WRC-19 are
currently being considered and around 70 GHz is chosen as a proxy for this
range. A range of bands from 3300 -- 4990MHz identified for WRC-15 are
currently being considered and around 4GHz is chosen as a proxy for this
range.
NOTE2: The aggregated system bandwidth is the total bandwidth typically
assumed to derive the values for some KPIs such as area traffic capacity and
user experienced data rate. It is allowed to simulate a smaller bandwidth than
the aggregated system bandwidth and transform the results to a larger
bandwidth. The transformation method should then be described, including the
modelling of power limitations.
NOTE3: \"DL + UL\" refers to either of the following two cases:
1\. FDD with symmetric bandwidth allocations between DL and UL.
2\. TDD with the aggregated system bandwidth used for either DL or UL via
switching in time-domain.
NOTE4: The maximum number of antenna elements is a working assumption. 3GPP
needs to strive to meet the target with typical antenna configurations.
### 6.1.2 Dense urban
The dense urban microcellular deployment scenario focuses on macro TRxPs with
or without micro TRxPs and high user densities and traffic loads in city
centres and dense urban areas. The key characteristics of this deployment
scenario are high traffic loads, outdoor and outdoor-to-indoor coverage. This
scenario will be interference-limited, using macro TRxPs with or without micro
TRxPs. A continuous cellular layout and the associated interference shall be
assumed.
Some of its attributes are listed in Table 6.1.2-1.
Table 6.1.2-1: Attributes for dense urban
+--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Attributes | Values or assumptions | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Carrier Frequency | Around 4GHz + Around 30GHz (two | | | layers) | | NOTE1 | | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Aggregated system bandwidth | Around 30GHz: Up to1GHz (DL+UL) | | | | | NOTE2 | Around 4GHz: Up to 200MHz (DL+UL) | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Layout | Two layers: | | | | | | - Macro layer: Hex. Grid | | | | | | - Micro layer: Random drop | | | | | | Step 1 NOTE3: Around 4GHz in Macro | | | layer | | | | | | Step 2 NOTE3: Both Around 4GHz & | | | Around 30GHz may be available in | | | Macro & Micro layers (including 1 | | | macro layer, macro cell only) | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | ISD | Macro layer: 200m | | | | | | Micro layer: 3micro TRxPs per | | | macro TRxP NOTE4, | | | | | | All micro TRxPs are all outdoor | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | BS antenna elements NOTE5 | Around 30GHz: Up to 256 Tx and Rx | | | antenna elements | | | | | | Around 4GHz: Up to 256 Tx and Rx | | | antenna elements | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | UE antenna elements NOTE5 | Around 30GHz: Up to 32 Tx and Rx | | | antenna elements | | | | | | Around 4GHz: Up to 8 Tx and Rx | | | antenna elements | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | User distribution and UE speed | Step1 NOTE3: Uniform/macro TRxP, | | | 10 users per TRxP NOTE6, NOTE7 | | | | | | Step2 NOTE3: Uniform/macro TRxP + | | | Clustered/micro TRxP, 10 users per | | | TRxP NoTE6, | | | | | | 80% indoor (3km/h), 20% outdoor | | | (30km/h) | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Service profile | NOTE: Whether to use full buffer | | | traffic or non-full-buffer traffic | | | depends on the evaluation | | | methodology adopted for each KPI. | | | For certain KPIs, full buffer | | | traffic is desirable to enable | | | comparison with IMT-Advanced | | | values. | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+
NOTE1: The options noted here are for evaluation purpose, and do not mandate
the deployment of these options or preclude the study of other spectrum
options. A range of bands from 24.25 GHz -- 52.6 GHz identified for WRC-19 are
currently being considered and around 30 GHz is chosen as a proxy for this
range. A range of bands from 3300 -- 4990MHz identified for WRC-15 are
currently being considered and around 4GHz is chosen as a proxy for this
range.
NOTE2: The aggregated system bandwidth is the total bandwidth typically
assumed to derive the values for some KPIs such as area traffic capacity and
user experienced data rate. It is allowed to simulate a smaller bandwidth than
the aggregated system bandwidth and transform the results to a larger
bandwidth. The transformation method should then be described, including the
modelling of power limitations.
NOTE3: Step 1 shall be used for the evaluation of spectral efficiency KPIs.
Step2 shall be used for the evaluation of the other deployment scenario
dependant KPIs.
NOTE4: This value is the baseline and other number of micro TRxPs per macro
TRxP (e.g., 6 or 10) is not precluded.
NOTE5: The maximum number of antenna elements is a working assumption. 3GPP
needs to strive to meet the target with typical antenna configurations.
NOTE6: 10 users per TRxP is the baseline with full buffer traffic. 20 users
per macro TRxP with full buffer traffic is not precluded.
### 6.1.3 Rural
The rural deployment scenario focuses on larger and continuous coverage. The
key characteristics of this scenario are continuous wide area coverage
supporting high speed vehicles. This scenario will be noise-limited and/or
interference-limited, using macro TRxPs.
Some of its attributes are listed in Table 6.1.3-1.
Table 6.1.3-1: Attributes for rural scenario
+--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Attributes | Values or assumptions | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Carrier Frequency NOTE1 | Around 700MHz or Around 4GHz (for | | | ISD 1) | | | | | | Around 700 MHz and Around 2 GHz | | | combined (for ISD 2) | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Aggregated system bandwidth | Around 700MHz: Up to 20MHz(DL+UL) | | | NOTE3 | | NOTE2 | | | | Around 4GHz: Up to 200MHz (DL+UL) | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Layout | Single layer: | | | | | | - Hex. Grid | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | ISD | ISD 1: 1732m | | | | | | ISD 2: 5000m | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | BS antenna elements NOTE4 | Around 4GHz: Up to 256 Tx and Rx | | | antenna elements | | | | | | Around 700MHz: Up to 64 Tx and Rx | | | antenna elements | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | UE antenna elements NOTE4 | Around 4GHz: Up to 8 Tx and Rx | | | antenna elements | | | | | | Around 700MHz: Up to 4 Tx and Rx | | | antenna elements | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | User distribution and UE speed | 50% outdoor vehicles (120km/h) and | | | 50% indoor (3km/h), 10 users per | | | TRxP | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Service profile | NOTE: Whether to use full buffer | | | traffic or non-full-buffer traffic | | | depends on the evaluation | | | methodology adopted for each KPI. | | | For certain KPIs, full buffer | | | traffic is desirable to enable | | | comparison with IMT-Advanced | | | values. | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+
NOTE1: The options noted here are for evaluation purpose, and do not mandate
the deployment of these options or preclude the study of other spectrum
options. A range of bands from 450MHz -- 960MHz identified for WRC-15 are
currently being considered and around 700MHz is chosen as a proxy for this
range. A range of bands from 1427 -- 2690MHz identified for WRC-15 are
currently being considered and around 2GHz is chosen as a proxy for this
range. A range of bands from 3300 -- 4990MHz identified for WRC-15 are
currently being considered and around 4GHz is chosen as a proxy for this
range.
NOTE2: The aggregated system bandwidth is the total bandwidth typically
assumed to derive the values for some KPIs such as area traffic capacity and
user experienced data rate. It is allowed to simulate a smaller bandwidth than
the aggregated system bandwidth and transform the results to a larger
bandwidth. The transformation method should then be described, including the
modelling of power limitations.
NOTE3: Consider larger aggregated system bandwidth if 20MHz cannot meet
requirement.
NOTE4: The maximum number of antenna elements is a working assumption. 3GPP
needs to strive to meet the target with typical antenna configurations.
### 6.1.4 Urban macro
The urban macro deployment scenario focuses on large cells and continuous
coverage. The key characteristics of this scenario are continuous and
ubiquitous coverage in urban areas. This scenario will be interference-
limited, using macro TRxPs (i.e. radio access points above rooftop level).
Some of its attributes are listed in Table 6.1.4-1.
Table 6.1.4-1: Attributes for urban macro
+--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Attributes | Values or assumptions | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Carrier Frequency NOTE1 | Around 2 GHz or Around 4 GHz or | | | Around 30 GHz | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Aggregated system bandwidth | Around 4GHz: Up to 200 MHz (DL+UL) | | | | | NOTE2 | Around 30GHz: Up to 1GHz (DL+UL) | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Layout | Single layer: | | | | | | - Hex. Grid | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | ISD | 500m | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | BS antenna elements NOTE3 | Around 30GHz: Up to 256 Tx and Rx | | | antenna elements | | | | | | Around 4GHz or Around 2GHz: Up to | | | 256 Tx and Rx antenna elements | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | UE antenna elements NOTE3 | Around 30GHz: Up to 32 Tx and Rx | | | antenna elements | | | | | | Around 4GHz: Up to 8 Tx and Rx | | | antenna elements | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | User distribution and UE speed | 20% Outdoor in cars: 30km/h, | | | | | | 80% Indoor in houses: 3km/h | | | | | | 10 users per TRxP NOTE4 | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Service profile | NOTE: Whether to use full buffer | | | traffic or non-full-buffer traffic | | | depends on the evaluation | | | methodology adopted for each KPI. | | | For certain KPIs, full buffer | | | traffic is desirable to enable | | | comparison with IMT-Advanced | | | values. | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+
NOTE1: The options noted here are for evaluation purpose, and do not mandate
the deployment of these options or preclude the study of other spectrum
options. A range of bands from 24.25 GHz -- 52.6 GHz identified for WRC-19 are
currently being considered and around 30 GHz is chosen as a proxy for this
range. A range of bands from 1427 -- 2690MHz identified for WRC-15 are
currently being considered and around 2GHz is chosen as a proxy for this
range. A range of bands from 3300 -- 4990MHz identified for WRC-15 are
currently being considered and around 4GHz is chosen as a proxy for this
range.
NOTE2: The aggregated system bandwidth is the total bandwidth typically
assumed to derive the values for some KPIs such as area traffic capacity and
user experienced data rate. It is allowed to simulate a smaller bandwidth than
the aggregated system bandwidth and transform the results to a larger
bandwidth. The transformation method should then be described, including the
modelling of power limitations.
NOTE3: The maximum number of antenna elements is a working assumption. 3GPP
needs to strive to meet the target with typical antenna configurations.
NOTE4: 10 users per TRxP is the baseline with full buffer traffic. 20 users
per TRxP with full buffer traffic is not precluded.
### 6.1.5 High speed
The high speed deployment scenario focuses on continuous coverage along track
in high speed trains. The key characteristics of this scenario are consistent
passenger user experience and critical train communication reliability with
very high mobility. In this deployment scenario, dedicated linear deployment
along railway line and the deployments including SFN scenarios captured in
Section 6.2 of 3GPP TR 36.878 [6] are considered, and passenger UEs are
located in train carriages. For the passenger UEs, if the antenna of relay
node for eNB-to-Relay is located at top of one carriage of the train, the
antenna of relay node for Relay-to-UE could be distributed to all carriages.
Some of its attributes are listed in Table 6.1.5-1.
Table 6.1.5-1: High Speed
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Attributes | Values or assumptions | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Carrier Frequency NOTE1 | Macro NOTE2 only: Around 4GHz | | | | | | Macro NOTE2+ relay nodes: | | | | | | 1) For BS to relay: Around 4 | | | GHz | | | | | | For relay to UE: Around 30 GHz | | | or Around 70 GH or Around 4 GHz | | | | | | 2) For BS to relay: Around 30 | | | GHz | | | | | | For relay to UE: Around 30 GHz | | | or Around 70 GHz or Around 4 GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Aggregated system bandwidth | Around 4GHz: Up to 200 MHz | | NOTE3 | (DL+UL) | | | | | | Around 30GHz or Around 70GHz: Up | | | to 1GHz (DL+UL) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Layout | Macro only: | | | | | | - Around 4GHz: Dedicated linear | | | deployment along the railway | | | line as in Figure 6.1.5-1.\ | | | RRH site to railway track | | | distance: 100m | | | | | | Macro + relay nodes: | | | | | | - Around 4GHz: Dedicated linear | | | deployment along the railway | | | line as in Figure 6.1.5-1. | | | | | | RRH site to railway track | | | distance: 100m | | | | | | - Around 30GHz: Dedicated | | | linear deployment along the | | | railway line as in Figure | | | 6.1.5-2. | | | | | | RRH site to railway track | | | distance: 5m. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | ISD | - Around 4GHz: ISD 1732m | | | between RRH sites, two TRxPs per | | | RRH site. See Figure 6.1.5-1. | | | | | | - Around 30GHz: 1732m between | | | BBU sites, 3 RRH sites connected | | | to 1 BBU, one TRxP per RRH site, | | | inter RRH site distance (580m, | | | 580m, 572m). See Figure 6.1.5-2. | | | | | | - Small cell within carriages: | | | ISD = 25m. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS antenna elements NOTE4 | Around 30GHz: Up to 256 Tx and | | | Rx antenna elements | | | | | | Around 4GHz: Up to 256 Tx and Rx | | | antenna elements | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE antenna elements NOTE4 | Relay Tx: Up to 256 antenna | | | elements | | | | | | Relay Rx: Up to 256 antenna | | | elements | | | | | | Around 30GHz: Up to 32 Tx and Rx | | | antenna elements | | | | | | Around 4GHz: Up to 8 Tx and Rx | | | antenna elements | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | User distribution and UE speed | 100% of users in train | | | | | | For non-full buffer, 300 UEs per | | | macro cell (assuming 1000 | | | passengers per high-speed train | | | and at least 10% activity ratio) | | | | | | Maximum mobility speed: 500km/h | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Service profile | Alt 1: Full buffer | | | | | | Alt 2: FTP model 1/2/3 with | | | packet size 0.5 Mbytes, 0.1 | | | Mbytes (other value is not | | | precluded) | | | | | | Other traffic models are not | | | precluded, e.g., for critical | | | train communications. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
NOTE1: The options noted here are for evaluation purpose, and do not mandate
the deployment of these options or preclude the study of other spectrum
options. A range of bands from 24.25 GHz -- 52.6 GHz identified for WRC-19 are
currently being considered and around 30 GHz is chosen as a proxy for this
range. A range of bands from 66 GHz -- 86 GHz identified for WRC-19 are
currently being considered and around 70 GHz is chosen as a proxy for this
range. A range of bands from 3300 -- 4990MHz identified for WRC-15 are
currently being considered and around 4GHz is chosen as a proxy for this
range.
NOTE2: For Macro, it is assumed RRH sharing the same cell ID or having
different cell ID.
NOTE3: The aggregated system bandwidth is the total bandwidth typically
assumed to derive the values for some KPIs such as area traffic capacity and
user experienced data rate. It is allowed to simulate a smaller bandwidth than
the aggregated system bandwidth and transform the results to a larger
bandwidth. The transformation method should then be described, including the
modelling of power limitations.
NOTE4: The maximum number of antenna elements is a working assumption. 3GPP
needs to strive to meet the target with typical antenna configurations.
{width="6.133333333333334in" height="1.992361111111111in"}
Figure 6.1.5-1: 4 GHz deployment
{width="6.434722222222222in" height="2.1131944444444444in"}
Figure 6.1.5-2: 30 GHz deployment
### 6.1.6 Extreme long distance coverage in low density areas
The extreme Long Range deployment scenario is defined to allow for the
Provision of services for very large areas with low density of users whether
they are humans and machines (e.g. Low ARPU regions, wilderness, areas where
only highways are located, etc). The key characteristics of this scenario are
Macro cells with very large area coverage supporting basic data speeds and
voice services, with low to moderate user throughput and low user density.
Table 6.1.6-1: Attributes for extreme rural
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | **Attributes** | **Values or assumptions** | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Carrier Frequency | Below 3 GHz | | | | | | With a priority on bands below 1GHz | | | | | | Around 700 MHz | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | System Bandwidth | 40 MHz (DL+UL) | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Layout | Single layer: | | | | | | Isolated Macro cells | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Cell range | 100 km range (Isolated cell) to be | | | evaluated through system level | | | simulations. | | | | | | Feasibility of Higher Range shall be | | | evaluated through Link level evaluation | | | (for example in some scenarios ranges | | | up to 150-300km may be required). | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | User density and UE speed | User density: NOTE1 | | | | | | Speed up to 160 km/h | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Traffic model | Average data throughput at busy | | | hours/user: 30 kbps | | | | | | User experienced data rate: up to 2 | | | Mbps DL while stationary and 384 kbps | | | DL while moving NOTE2 | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
NOTE1: Evaluate how many users can be served per cell site when the range edge
users are serviced with the target user experience data rate. A range of bands
from 450MHz -960MHz identified for WRC-15 are currently being considered and
around 700MHz is chosen as a proxy for this range. A range of bands from 1427
-- 2690MHz identified for WRC-15 are currently being considered and around
2GHz is chosen as a proxy for this range. A range of bands from 3300 --
4990MHz identified for WRC-15 are currently being considered and around 4GHz
is chosen as a proxy for this range.
NOTE2: Target values for UL are lower than DL, 1/3 of DL is desirable.
### 6.1.7 Urban coverage for massive connection
The urban coverage for massive connection scenario focuses on large cells and
continuous coverage to provide mMTC. The key characteristics of this scenario
are continuous and ubiquitous coverage in urban areas, with very high
connection density of mMTC devices. This deployment scenario is for the
evaluation of the KPI of connection density.
Some of its attributes are listed in Table 6.1.7-1.
Table 6.1.7-1: Attributes of urban coverage for massive connection
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Attributes** | **Values or assumptions** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Carrier Frequency | 700MHz, 2100 MHz as an option | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Network deployment including ISD | Macro only, ISD = 1732m, 500m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Device deployment | Indoor, and outdoor in-car | | | devices | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Maximum mobility speed | 20% of users are outdoor in cars | | | (100km/h) or 20% of users are | | | outdoors (3km/h) | | | | | | 80% of users are indoor (3km/h) | | | | | | Users dropped uniformly in | | | entire cell | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Service profile | Non-full buffer with small | | | packets | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS antenna elements | 2 and 4 Rx ports (8 Rx ports as | | | optional) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE antenna elements | 1Tx | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 6.1.8 Highway Scenario
The highway deployment scenario focuses on scenario of vehicles placed in
highways with high speeds. The main KPIs evaluated under this scenario would
be reliability/availability under high speeds/mobility (and thus frequent
handover operations).
Some of its attributes are listed in Table 6.1.8-1.
Table 6.1.8-1: Attributes of Highway
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Attributes** | **Values or assumptions** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Carrier Frequency NOTE1 | Macro only: Below 6 GHz (around | | | 6 GHz) | | | | | | Macro + RSUs NOTE2: | | | | | | 1) For BS to RSU: Below 6 GHz | | | (around 6 GHz) NOTE3 | | | | | | 2) RSU to vehicles or among | | | vehicles: below 6 GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Aggregated system bandwidth | Up to 200MHz (DL+UL) | | NOTE4 | | | | Up to 100MHz (SL) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Layout | Option 1: Macro only | | | | | | Option 2: Macro + RSUs NOTE2 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | ISD | Macro cell: ISD = 1732m, | | | 500m(Optional) | | | | | | Inter-RSU distance = 50m or 100m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS antenna elements | Tx: Up to 256 Tx | | | | | | Rx: Up to 256 Rx | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE antenna elements | RSU Tx: Up to 8 Tx | | | | | | RSU Rx: Up to 8 Rx | | | | | | Vehicle Tx: Up to 8 Tx | | | | | | Vehicle Rx: Up to 8 Rx | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | User distribution and UE speed | 100% in vehicles | | | | | NOTE5 | Average inter-vehicle distance | | | (between two vehicles' center) | | | in the same lane is 0.5sec or | | | 1sec * average vehicle speed | | | (average speed: 100-300km/h) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Traffic model | 50 messagesNOTE6 per 1 second | | | with absolute average speed of | | NOTE5 | either | | | | | | > \- 100-250 km/h (relative | | | > speed: 200 -- 500km/h), or | | | > | | | > \- 30 km/h | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
NOTE1: The options noted here are for evaluation purpose, and do not mandate
the deployment of these options or preclude the study of other spectrum
options. A range of bands from 24.25 GHz -- 52.6 GHz identified for WRC-19 are
currently being considered and around 30 GHz is chosen as a proxy for this
range. A range of bands from 66 GHz -- 86 GHz identified for WRC-19 are
currently being considered and around 70 GHz is chosen as a proxy for this
range.
NOTE2: SA1 defines RSU as a logical entity that combines V2X application logic
with the functionality of an eNB (referred to as eNB-type RSU) or UE (referred
to as UE-type RSU). Therefore a RSU can communicate with vehicles via D2D link
or cellular DL/UL
NOTE3: This frequency may or may not be evaluated depending on communication
type between eNB and RSU.
NOTE4: The aggregated system bandwidth is the total bandwidth typically
assumed to derive the values for some KPIs such as area traffic capacity and
user experienced data rate. It is allowed to simulate a smaller bandwidth than
the aggregated system bandwidth and transform the results to a larger
bandwidth. The transformation method should then be described, including the
modelling of power limitations.
NOTE5: The traffic models and UE distributions and speeds are tentative and
could be modified after SA1 input.
NOTE6: The message size needs further clarification for eMBB and other types
of services (e.g. safety).
Illustrative diagram of freeway mode is as follows
{width="6.263194444444444in" height="1.6333333333333333in"}
Figure 6.1.8-1: Road configuration for highway scenario
### 6.1.9 Urban Grid for Connected Car
The urban macro deployment scenario focuses on scenario of highly densely
deployed vehicles placed in urban area. It could cover a scenario where
freeways lead through an urban grid. The main KPI evaluated under this
scenario are reliability/availability/latency in high network load and high UE
density scenarios.
Some of its attributes are listed in Table 6.1.9-1.
Table 6.1.9-1: Attributes of urban grid for connected car
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Attributes | Values or assumptions | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Carrier Frequency NOTE1 | Macro only: Below 6 GHz (around | | | 6 GHz) | | | | | | Macro + RSUs NOTE2: | | | | | | 1) For BS to RSU: Below 6 GHz | | | (around 6 GHz) NOTE3 | | | | | | 2) RSU to vehicles or among | | | vehicles/pedestrians: below 6 | | | GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Aggregated system bandwidth | Up to 200 MHz (DL+UL) | | NOTE4 | | | | Up to 100 MHz (SL) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Layout | Option 1: Macro only | | | | | | Option 2: Macro + RSUs NOTE2 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | ISD | Macro cell: ISD = 500m | | | | | | RSU at each intersection for | | | Option 2. Other values (50m and | | | 100m) should also be considered | | | for option 2 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS antenna elements | Tx: Up to 256 Tx | | | | | | Rx: Up to 256 Rx | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE antenna elements | RSU Tx: Up to 8 Tx | | | | | | RSU Rx: Up to 8 Rx | | | | | | Vehicle Tx: Up to 8 Tx | | | | | | Vehicle Rx: Up to 8 Rx | | | | | | Pedestrian/bicycle Tx: Up to 8 | | | Tx | | | | | | Pedestrian/bicycle Rx: Up to 8 | | | Rx | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | User distribution and UE speed | Urban grid model (car lanes and | | NOTE5 | pedestrian/bicycle sidewalks are | | | placed around a road block. 2 | | | lanes in each direction, 4 lanes | | | in total, 1 sidewalk, one block | | | size: 433m x 250m) | | | | | | Average inter-vehicle distance | | | (between two vehicles' center) | | | in the same lane is 1sec * | | | average vehicle speed (average | | | speed 15 -- 120km/h) | | | | | | Pedestrian/bicycle dropping: | | | average distance between UEs is | | | 20m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Traffic model | 50 messages NOTE6 per 1 second | | | with 60km/h, 10 messages per 1 | | NOTE5 | second with 15km/h | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
NOTE1: The options noted here are for evaluation purpose, and do not mandate
the deployment of these options or preclude the study of other spectrum
options. A range of bands from 24.25 GHz -- 52.6 GHz identified for WRC-19 are
currently being considered and around 30 GHz is chosen as a proxy for this
range. A range of bands from 66 GHz -- 86 GHz identified for WRC-19 are
currently being considered and around 70 GHz is chosen as a proxy for this
range
NOTE2: SA1 defines RSU as a logical entity that combines V2X application logic
with the functionality of an eNB (referred to as eNB-type RSU) or UE (referred
to as UE-type RSU). Therefore a RSU can communicate with vehicles via D2D link
or cellular DL/UL
NOTE3: This frequency may or may not be evaluated depending on communication
type between eNB and RSU.
NOTE4: The aggregated system bandwidth is the total bandwidth typically
assumed to derive the values for some KPIs such as area traffic capacity and
user experienced data rate. It is allowed to simulate a smaller bandwidth than
the aggregated system bandwidth and transform the results to a larger
bandwidth. The transformation method should then be described, including the
modelling of power limitations.
NOTE5: The traffic models and UE distributions and speeds are tentative and
could be modified after SA1 input.
NOTE6: The message size needs further clarification for eMBB and other types
of services (e.g. safety).
Illustrative diagram of urban grid model with UE distribution is as follows:.
Table 6.1.9-2: Details of vehicle UE drop and mobility model
* * *
Parameter Urban case Freeway case Number of lanes 2 in each direction (4 lanes
in total in each street) 3 in each direction (6 lanes in total in the freeway)
Lane width 3.5 m 4 m Road grid size by the distance between intersections 433
m * 250 m. NOTE1 N/A Simulation area size Minimum 1299 m * 750 m NOTE2 Freeway
length >= 2000 m. Wrap around should be applied to the simulation area.
Vehicle density Average inter-vehicle distance in the same lane is 2.5 sec *
absolute vehicle speed. Baseline: The same density/speed in all the lanes in
one simulation.  
Absolute vehicle speed 15 km/h, 60 km/h, 120 km/h 250 km/h, 140 km/h, 70 km/h
* * *
{width="5.329166666666667in" height="5.7625in"}
Figure 6.1.9-1: Road configuration for urban grid
NOTE1: 3 m is reserved for sidewalk per direction (i.e., no vehicle or
building in this reserved space).
NOTE2: This value is tentative and could be modified after SA1'further input.
### 6.1.10 Commercial Air to Ground scenario
The commercial Air to Ground deployment scenario is defined to allow for the
provision of services for commercial aircraft to enable both humans and
machines aboard the aircraft to initiate and receive mobile services. It is
not for the establishment of airborne based base stations.
The key characteristics of this scenario are upward pointed Macro cells with
very large area coverage supporting basic data and voice services, with
moderate user throughput that are optimized for high altitude users that are
travelling at very high speeds. The commercial airlines aircrafts are likely
equipped with an aggregation point (e.g. Relay).
Some of the characteristics of this deployment scenario are listed below.
Table 6.1.10-1: Attributes for commercial Air to Ground Scenario
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Attributes | Values or assumptions | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Carrier Frequency | Macro + relay: for BS to relay: Below 4 | | | GHz | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | System Bandwidth | 40 MHz (DL+UL) | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Layout | Macro + relay nodes NOTE1 | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Cell range | Macro cell: 100 km range to be | | | evaluated through system level | | | simulations. Feasibility of Higher | | | Range shall be evaluated through Link | | | level evaluation. | | | | | | Relay: up to 80 m | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | User density and UE speed | End user density per Macro: NOTE2 | | | | | | UE speed: Up to 1000 km/h | | | | | | Altitude: Up to 15 km | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Traffic model | End User experienced data rate: 384kbps | | | DL. NOTE3 | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
NOTE1: BS to relay link should be the priority for study compared to relay to
UE link.
NOTE2: Evaluate how many users can be served per cell site when the range edge
users are serviced with the target user experience data rate.
NOTE3: Target values for UL are lower than DL, 1/3 of DL is desirable.
### 6.1.11 Light aircraft scenario
The light aircraft scenario is defined to allow for the provision of services
for general aviation aircrafts to enable both humans and machines aboard
helicopters and small air plans to initiate and receive mobile services. It is
not for the establishment of airborne based base stations.
The key characteristics of this scenario are upward pointed Macro cells with
very large area coverage supporting basic data and voice services, with
moderate user throughput and low user density that are optimized for moderate
altitude users that might be travelling at high speeds. The general regime
aviation aircrafts are not equipped with relays.
Some of the characteristics of this deployment scenario are listed below.
Table 6.1.11-1: Attributes for Light aircraft Scenario
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Attributes | Values or assumptions | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Carrier Frequency | Macro only: Below 4GHz | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | System Bandwidth | 40 MHz (DL+UL) | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Layout | Single layer: Macro cell | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Cell range | 100km range to be evaluated through | | | system level simulations. Feasibility | | | of Higher Range shall be evaluated | | | through Link level evaluation. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | User density and UE speed | End user density per aircraft: up to | | | 6users | | | | | | UE speed: Up to 370km/h | | | | | | Altitude: Up to 3km | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Traffic model | End user experienced data rate: 384kbps | | | DL. NOTE1 | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
NOTE1: Target values for UL are lower than DL, 1/3 of DL is desirable.
### 6.1.12 Satellite extension to Terrestrial
This deployment scenario is defined to allow for the provision of services for
those areas where the terrestrial service is not available and also for those
services that can be more efficiently supported by the satellite systems such
as broadcasting service. Satellite acts as a fill-in especially on roadways
and rural areas where the terrestrial service isn't available. The supported
services via the Satellite system are not limited to just data and voice, but
also for others such as machine type communications, broadcast and other delay
tolerant services.
Some of its attributes are listed in Table 6.1.12-1.
Table 6.1.12-1: Examples for Satellite Deployment
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Attributes | Deployment-1 | Deployment-2 | Deployment-3 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Carrier | Around 1.5 or | Around 20 GHz | Around 40 or | | Frequency | 2 GHz for both | for DL | 50 GHz | | | DL and UL | | | | NOTE1 | | Around 30 GHz | | | | | for UL | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Duplexing | FDD | FDD | FDD | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Satellite | Bent-pipe | Bent-pipe, | Bent-pipe, | | architecture | | | | | | NOTE2 | On-Board | On-Board | | | | Processing | Processing | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Typical | Access network | Backhaul | Backhaul | | satellite | | network | network | | system | | | | | positioning in | | | | | the 5G | | | | | architecture | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | System | Up to 2*10 | Up to 2*250 | Up to 2 * | | Bandwidth | MHz | MHz | 1000 MHz | | | | | | | (DL + UL) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Satellite | GEO, LEO | LEO, MEO, GEO | LEO, MEO, GEO | | Orbit | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | UE | 100% Outdoors | 100% Outdoors | 100% Outdoors | | Distribution | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | UE Mobility | Fixed, | Fixed, | Fixed, | | | Portable, | Portable, | Portable, | | | Mobile | Mobile | Mobile | | | | | | | | NOTE3 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
NOTE1: The carrier frequencies noted here are for evaluation purpose only,
satellites are deployed in wide range of frequency bands including L band
(1-2GHz), S band (2-4GHz), C band (3.4-6.725 GHz), Ku band (10.7-14.8 GHz), Ka
band (17.3-21.2 GHz, 27.0-31.0 GHz) and Q/V bands (37.5-43.5 GHz, 47.2-50.2
GHz and 50.4-51.4 GHz) and more. Here the around xGHz is used to denote the
carrier frequency close to xGHz rather than used as band proxy to denote a
band range.
NOTE2: Bent pipe refers to the architecure where the satellite transponders
are transparent---only amplify and change frequency but preserve the waveform.
On Board Processing satellite transponders incorperate regeneration ---
including modulating and coding the waveform.
NOTE3: Mobile consitutes of both hand-helds and other moving platform
receivers such as automobiles, ships, planes etc. Currently the hand-helds are
limited to L and S bands but the research is ongoing to support higher bands.
# 7 Key performance indicators
This section describes the definitions of all KPIs.
The KPI targets defined in this section as well as in Report ITU-R
M.[IMT-2020. TECH PERF REQ] shall be supported by next generation access
technologies. The evaluation methodology defined in Report ITU-R
M.[IMT-2020.EVAL] shall be used to evaluate the targets specified in Report
ITU-R M.[IMT-2020. TECH PERF REQ].
## 7.1 Peak data rate
Peak data rate is the highest theoretical data rate which is the received data
bits assuming error-free conditions assignable to a single mobile station,
when all assignable radio resources for the corresponding link direction are
utilised (i.e., excluding radio resources that are used for physical layer
synchronisation, reference signals or pilots, guard bands and guard times).
The target for peak data rate should be 20Gbps for downlink and 10Gbps for
uplink.
Analytical evaluation is used as the evaluation methodology.
## 7.2 Peak Spectral efficiency
Peak spectral efficiency is the highest theoretical data rate (normalised by
bandwidth), which is the received data bits assuming error-free conditions
assignable to a single mobile station, when all assignable radio resources for
the corresponding link direction are utilised (i.e., excluding radio resources
that are used for physical layer synchronisation, reference signals or pilots,
guard bands and guard times).
The target for peak spectral efficiency should be 30bps/Hz for downlink and
15bps/Hz for uplink.
Higher frequency bands could have higher bandwidth but lower spectral
efficiency and lower frequency bands could have lower bandwidth but higher
spectral efficiency. Thus, peak data rate cannot be directly derived from peak
spectral efficiency and bandwidth multiplication.
Analytical evaluation is used as the evaluation methodology.
## 7.3 Bandwidth
Bandwidth means the maximal aggregated total system bandwidth. It may be
supported by single or multiple RF carriers.
It is a quantitative KPI.
> NOTE1: Target value for this KPI is not defined here: it may be derived by
> IMT-2020 requirements, or based on outcomes from RAN1/RAN4 study/design.
## 7.4 Control plane latency
Control plane latency refers to the time to move from a battery efficient
state (e.g., IDLE) to start of continuous data transfer (e.g., ACTIVE).
The target for control plane latency should be 10ms.
Analytical evaluation is used as the evaluation methodology.
NOTE1: For satellite communications link, the control plane should be able to
support RTT of up to 600ms in the case of GEO and HEO, up to 180ms in the case
of MEO, and up to 50ms in the case of LEO satellite systems.
## 7.5 User plane latency
The time it takes to successfully deliver an application layer packet/message
from the radio protocol layer 2/3 SDU ingress point to the radio protocol
layer 2/3 SDU egress point via the radio interface in both uplink and downlink
directions, where neither device nor Base Station reception is restricted by
DRX.
For URLLC, the target for user plane latency should be 0.5ms for UL, and 0.5ms
for DL. Furthermore, if possible, the latency should also be low enough to
support the use of the next generation access technologies as a wireless
transport technology that can be used within the next generation access
architecture.
NOTE1: The reliability KPI also provides a latency value with an associated
reliability requirement. The value above should be considered an average value
and does not have an associated high reliability requirement.
For eMBB, the target for user plane latency should be 4ms for UL, and 4ms for
DL.
NOTE2: For eMBB value, the evaluation needs to consider all typical delays
associated with the transfer of the data packets in an efficient way (e.g.
applicable procedural delay when resources are not preallocated, averaged HARQ
retransmission delay, impacts of network architecture).
When a satellite link is involved in the communication with a user equipment,
the target for user plane RTT can be as high as 600ms for GEO satellite
systems, up to 180ms for MEO satellite systems, and up to 50ms for LEO
satellite systems.
NOTE3: For the satellite case, the evaluation needs to consider the max RTT
that is associated with the GEO satellite systems.
Analytical evaluation is used as the evaluation methodology.
## 7.6 Latency for infrequent small packets
For infrequent application layer small packet/message transfer, the time it
takes to successfully deliver an application layer packet/message from the
radio protocol layer 2/3 SDU ingress point at the mobile device to the radio
protocol layer 2/3 SDU egress point in the RAN, when the mobile device starts
from its most \"battery efficient\" state.
For the definition above, the latency shall be no worse than 10 seconds on the
uplink for a 20 byte application packet (with uncompressed IP header
corresponding to 105 bytes physical layer) measured at the maximum coupling
loss (MaxCL) of 164dB.
Analytical evaluation is the baseline evaluation methodology and system level
evaluation can be considered if needed.
## 7.7 Mobility interruption time
Mobility interruption time means the shortest time duration supported by the
system during which a user terminal cannot exchange user plane packets with
any base station during transitions.
The target for mobility interruption time should be 0ms.
This KPI is for both intra-frequency and inter-frequency mobility for intra-NR
mobility.
Mobility support can be relaxed for extreme rural scenarios for the Provision
of minimal services for very low-ARPU areas: Inter RAT mobility functions can
be removed. Intra-RAT mobility functions can be simplified if it helps
decreasing the cost of infrastructure and devices. Basic idle mode mobility
shall be supported as a minimum.
Analytical evaluation is used as the evaluation methodology.
## 7.8 Inter-system mobility
Inter-system mobility refers to the ability to support mobility between the
IMT-2020 system and at least one IMT system.
Evaluation methodology is based on inspection for this KPI.
## 7.9 Reliability
Reliability can be evaluated by the success probability of transmitting X
bytes within a certain delay, which is the time it takes to deliver a small
data packet from the radio protocol layer 2/3 SDU ingress point to the radio
protocol layer 2/3 SDU egress point of the radio interface, at a certain
channel quality (e.g., coverage-edge).
A general URLLC reliability requirement for one transmission of a packet is
1-10^-5^ for 32 bytes with a user plane latency of 1ms.
For eV2X, for communication availability and resilience and user plane latency
of delivery of a packet of size 300 bytes, the requirements are as follows:
\- Reliability = 1-10^-5^, and user plane latency = 3-10 msec, for direct
communication via sidelink and communication range of (e.g., a few meters)
\- Reliability = 1-10^-5^, and user plane latency = 3-10 msec, when the packet
is relayed via BS.
Note that target communication range and reliability requirement is dependent
of deployment and operation scenario (e.g., the average inter-vehicle speed).
Link level evaluation with deployment scenario specific operating point and
system level simulation are to be performed for the evaluations of Indoor
Hotspot, Urban Macro, Highway, and Urban grid for connected car.
> NOTE1: Other reliability requirements may be added, if needed, e.g. for
> critical communications relating to high-speed train, and more detailed
> requirements for eV2X should refer to the SA1 requirements in 3GPP TS 22.886
> [18].
## 7.10 Coverage
MaxCL in uplink and downlink between device and Base Station site (antenna
connector(s)) for a data rate of 160bps, where the data rate is observed at
the egress/ingress point of the radio protocol stack in uplink and downlink.
The target for coverage should be 164dB.
Link budget and/or link level analysis are used as the evaluation methodology.
### 7.10.1 Extreme Coverage
The coupling loss is defined as the total long-term channel loss over the link
between the UE antenna ports and the eNode B antenna ports, and includes in
practice antenna gains, path loss, shadowing, body loss, etc. The MaxCL is the
limit value of the coupling loss at which the service can be delivered, and
therefore defines the coverage of the service. The MaxCL is independent of the
carrier frequency. It is defined in the UL and DL as:
\- UL MaxCL = UL Max Tx power - eNB Sensitivity
\- DL MaxCL = DL Max Tx power - UE Sensitivity
The MaxCL is evaluated via link budget analysis (supported by link level
simulations). The proposed MaxCL calculation template is given in following
table 7.10.1-1:
Table 7.10.1-1: MaxCL calculation template
+-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | Item | Value | +-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | Transmitter | | +-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | (1) Tx power (dBm) | | +-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | Receiver | | +-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | (2) Thermal noise density (dBm/Hz) | | +-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | (3) Receiver noise figure (dB) | | +-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | (4) Interference margin (dB) | | +-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | (5) Occupied channel bandwidth (Hz) | | +-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | (6) Effective noise power | | | | | | = (2) + (3) + (4) + 10 log(5) (dBm) | | +-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | (7) Required SINR (dB) | | +-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | (8) Receiver sensitivity | | | | | | = (6) + (7) (dBm) | | +-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | (9) MaxCL | | | | | | = (1) - (8) (dB) | | +-----------------------------------------------+-------+
The following assumptions are used.
Table 7.10.1-2: MaxCL calculation assumptions
* * *
UE Tx power 23dBm DL Tx power 46dBm eNB receiver noise figure 5dB UE receiver
noise figure 9dB Interference margin 0dB
* * *
For a basic MBB service characterized by a downlink datarate of 2Mbps and an
uplink datarate of 60kbps for stationary users, the target on maximum coupling
loss is 140dB. For mobile users a downlink datarate of 384kbps is acceptable.
For a basic MBB service characterized by a downlink datarate of 1Mbps and an
uplink datarate of 30kbps for stationary users, the target on maximum coupling
loss is 143dB. At this coupling loss relevant downlink and uplink control
channels should also perform adequately.
As the evaluation methodology, link budget and/or link level analysis are used
for extreme long distance coverage in low density areas.
## 7.11 UE battery life
UE battery life can be evaluated by the battery life of the UE without
recharge. For mMTC, UE battery life in extreme coverage shall be based on the
activity of mobile originated data transfer consisting of 200bytes UL per day
followed by 20bytes DL from MaxCL of 164dB, assuming a stored energy capacity
of 5Wh.
The target for UE battery life for mMTC should be beyond 10 years, 15 years is
desirable.
Analytical evaluation is used as the evaluation methodology.
## 7.12 UE energy efficiency
UE energy efficiency means the capability of a UE to sustain much better
mobile broadband data rate while minimizing the UE modem energy consumption.
It is a qualitative KPI
Evaluation methodology should be based on inspection. More detailed
quantitative assessment can be performed.
## 7.13 Cell/Transmission Point/TRxP spectral efficiency
TRxP spectral efficiency NOTE1 is defined as the aggregate throughput of all
users (the number of correctly received bits, i.e. the number of bits
contained in the service data units (SDUs) delivered to Layer 3, over a
certain period of time) divided by the channel bandwidth divided by the number
of TRxPs. A 3 sector site consists of 3 TRxPs. In case of multiple
discontinuous \"carriers\" (one carrier refers to a continuous block of
spectrum), this KPI should be calculated per carrier. In this case, the
aggregate throughput, channel bandwidth, and the number of TRxPs on the
specific carrier are employed.
It is a quantitative KPI NOTE2
A joint system level evaluation is to be performed for Indoor Hotspot, Dense
Urban, Rural, and Urban Macro.
NOTE1: 3GPP should strive to meet the target with typical antenna
configuration
NOTE2: Target for 3x the cell spectral efficiency of IMT-Advanced targets for
Indoor Hotspot, Dense Urban (step 1), Rural and Urban Macro for full buffer.
Table 7.13-1: Spectrum efficiency in each deployment scenario for each Usage
scenario
* * *
Spectrum efficiency Indoor Hotspot Dense Urban Rural Urban Macro High Speed
eMBB 3x IMT-A InH 3x IMT-A UMi 3x IMT-A RMa 3x IMT-A UMa  
mMTC  
URLLC
* * *
## 7.14 Area traffic capacity
Area traffic capacity means total traffic throughput served per geographic
area (in Mbit/s/m^2^). This metric can be evaluated by two different traffic
models: Full buffer model and Non full buffer model
\- By full buffer model: Total traffic throughput served per geographic area
(in Mbit/s/m^2^). The computation of this metric is based on full buffer
traffic.
\- By non full buffer model: Total traffic throughput served per geographic
area (in Mbit/s/m^2^). Both the user experienced data rate and the area
traffic capacity need to be evaluated at the same time using the same traffic
model.
The area traffic capacity is a measure of how much traffic a network can carry
per unit area. It depends on site density, bandwidth and spectrum efficiency.
In the case of full buffer traffic and a single layer single band system, it
may be expressed as:
area capacity (bps/m^2^) = site density (site/m^2^) × bandwidth (Hz) ×
spectrum efficiency (bps/Hz/site)
In order to improve area traffic capacity, 3GPP can develop standards with
means for high spectrum efficiency. To this end, spectrum efficiency gains in
the order of three times IMT-Advanced are targeted. Furthermore, 3GPP can
develop standards with means for large bandwidth support. To this end, it is
proposed that at least 1GHz aggregated bandwidth shall be supported.
The available bandwidth and site density NOTE2, which both have a direct
impact on the available area capacity, are however not under control of 3GPP.
NOTE2: Site here refers to single transmission and reception point (TRxP).
It is proposed to perform full buffer evaluation, using the spectrum
efficiency results together with assumptions on available bandwidth and site
density in order to derive a quantitative area traffic capacity KPI for
information.
## 7.15 User experienced data rate
User experienced data rate NOTE1 can be evaluated for non-full buffer traffic
and for full buffer traffic.
NOTE1: Non-full buffer simulations are preferred for the evaluation of this
KPI.
For non-full buffer traffic, user experienced data rate is the 5%-percentile
(5%) of the user throughput. User throughput (during active time) is defined
as the size of a burst divided by the time between the arrival of the first
packet of a burst and the reception of the last packet of the burst.
For full buffer traffic, user experienced data rate is calculated as:
user experienced data rate = 5% user spectrum efficiency × bandwidth
Here it should be noted that the 5% user spectrum efficiency depends on the
number of active users sharing the channel (assumed to be 10 in the ITU
evaluations ITU-R report M.2135 [5]), and that the 5% user spectrum efficiency
for a fixed transmit power may vary with bandwidth. To keep a high 5% user
spectrum efficiency and a few users sharing the channel, a dense network is
beneficial, i.e. 5% user spectrum efficiency may vary also with site density
(Site here refers to single TRxP).
To improve user experienced data rates, 3GPP can develop standards with means
for high 5% user spectrum efficiency. To this end, 5% user spectrum efficiency
gains in the order of three times IMT-Advanced are proposed. Furthermore, 3GPP
can develop standards with means for large bandwidth support. To this end, it
is proposed that at least 1GHz aggregated bandwidth shall be supported.
The available bandwidth and site density, which both have a strong impact on
the available user experienced data rates, are however not under control of
3GPP.
Based on this, the full buffer experienced user data rate is evaluated for
information without numerical requirements.
For non-full buffer evaluation, a joint system level evaluation is to be
performed for Indoor Hotspot, Dense Urban, Rural, and Urban Macro. The non-
full buffer user experienced data rate target is applicable at a certain area
traffic level.
## 7.16 5th percentile user spectrum efficiency
5th percentile user spectrum efficiency means the 5% point of the cumulative
distribution function (CDF) of the normalized user throughput. The
(normalized) user throughput is defined as the average user throughput (the
number of correctly received bits by users, i.e., the number of bits contained
in the SDU delivered to Layer 3, over a certain period of time, divided by the
channel bandwidth and is measured in bit/s/Hz. The channel bandwidth for this
purpose is defined as the effective bandwidth times the frequency reuse
factor, where the effective bandwidth is the operating bandwidth normalised
appropriately considering the uplink/downlink ratio. In case of multiple
discontinuous "carriers" (one carrier refers to a continuous block of
spectrum), this KPI should be calculated per carrier. In this case, the user
throughput and channel bandwidth on the specific carrier are employed.
It is a quantitative KPI NOTE1
A joint system level evaluation is to be performed for Indoor Hotspot, Dense
Urban, Rural, and Urban Macro.
NOTE1: Target for 3x the cell edge spectral efficiency of IMT-Advanced targets
for Indoor Hotspot, Dense Urban (step 1), Rural and Urban Macro for full
buffer.
Table 7.16-1: 5th percentile user spectrum efficiency in each deployment
scenario for each usage scenario
* * *
5th percentile user spectrum efficiency Indoor Hotspot Dense Urban Rural Urban
Macro High Speed eMBB 3x IMT-A InH 3x IMT-A UMi 3x IMT-A RMa 3x IMT-A UMa  
mMTC  
URLLC
* * *
## 7.17 Connection density
**Connection density refers to total number of devices fulfilling a target QoS
per unit area (per km2), where the target QoS is to ensure a system packet
drop rate less than 1% under given packet arrival rate l and packet size S.
Packet drop rate = (Number of packet in outage) / (number of generated
packets), where a packet is in outage if this packet failed to be successfully
received by destination receiver beyond packet dropping timer.**
The target for connection density should be 1 000 000 device/km^2^ in urban
environment.
3GPP should develop standards with means of high connection efficiency
(measured as supported number of devices per TRxP per unit frequency resource)
to achieve the desired connection density.
Analytical, link level evaluation and system level evaluation are to be
performed for Urban coverage for massive connection (Urban environment).
## 7.18 Mobility
Mobility means the maximum user speed at which a defined QoS can be achieved
(in km/h).
The target for mobility target should be 500km/h.
Evaluation methodology should be link level evaluation with deployment
scenario specific operating point.
## 7.19 Network energy efficiency
The capability is to minimize the RAN energy consumption while providing a
much better area traffic capacity.
Both qualitative and quantitative KPIs are proposed.
Network energy efficiency shall be considered as a basic principle in the NR
design
The target is a design with:
\- the ability to efficiently deliver data, and
\- the ability to provide sufficiently granular network discontinuous
transmission when there is no data to transmit and network availability is
maintained
\- the ability to provide operator flexibility to adapt sleep durations of
base stations depending on load, services and area
[In case of quantitative KPI, the following Network Energy Efficiency
quantitative KPI (in bit per Joule) shall be used:]{.underline}
a) to compare different solutions or mechanisms directly related to energy
efficiency, when their impact is not obvious from qualitative analysis. When
qualitative evaluation provide clear conclusions for the comparison of
different network EE solutions and the evaluation of their impact, the
comparison through the proposed quantitative KPI is not required.
b) to compare the final NR system design with LTE to evaluate the overall
improvement brought in terms of network EE
[Definition:]{.underline}
{width="2.0833333333333335in" height="0.375in"}
**_b~k~ refers to the weights of every deployment scenario where the network
energy efficiency is evaluated._**
{width="1.78125in" height="0.3958333333333333in"}
**V _~1~_ = Refers to the** traffic per second served by a base station (in
bits/s)
**EC _~1~_= Refers to the_ _power consumed by a base station to serve_ _V_
~1~_** (in Watt = Joule/s).
**a _~1~_ = Refers to the** weight for each traffic load level.
**_Notes:_**
**_The following assumptions are considered as starting point for the
discussion in RAN WGs:_**
\- the IMEC model can be used as a starting point with possible enhancements
or adjustment depending on considerations brought to RAN WGs. Similar other
models are not precluded (Further discussion in RAN WGs needed). Other
alternative models can be considered in RAN1 if needed.
\- Energy Efficiency Quantitative KPI should be evaluated by means of system
level simulations at least in 2 deployment scenarios: one coverage limited
environment (ex : Rural) AND one capacity limited environment (ex : Urban).
\- Evaluation should not be for peak hour but based on a 24 hour daily traffic
profile. We recommend that at least 3 load levels should be evaluated
\- Cooling system impact on EE will not be discussed in 3GPP RAN
**_Evaluation methodology is based on inspection as baseline and system level
evaluation is to be performed if necessary. For system level evaluation, at
least 2 deployment scenarios are considered; one is coverage limited
environment (ex: Rural) and the other one is capacity limited environment (ex:
Dense Urban). NOTE1_**
NOTE1: Inspection is the method to qualitatively check the capability of the
RAN to improve area traffic capacity with minimum RAN energy consumption,
e.g., ensure no or limited increase of BS power with more antenna elements and
larger bandwidth, etc. As qualitative evaluation, 3GPP should ensure that the
new RAT is based on energy efficient design principles. For quantitative
evaluation, one can compare the quantity of information bits transmitted
to/received from users, divided by the energy consumption of RAN.
# 8 Requirements for architecture and migration of Next Generation Radio
Access Technologies
The RAN design for the Next Generation Radio Access Technologies shall be
designed to fulfil the following requirements:
\- The RAN architecture shall support tight interworking between the new RAT
and LTE.
\- Considering high performing inter-RAT mobility and aggregation of data
flows via at least dual connectivity between LTE and new RAT. This shall be
supported for both collocated and non-collocated site deployments.
\- The RAN architecture shall support connectivity through multiple
transmission points, either collocated or non-collocated.
\- The RAN architecture shall enable a separation of control plane signalling
and user plane data from different sites.
\- The RAN architecture shall support interfaces supporting effective inter-
site scheduling coordination.
\- Different options and flexibility for splitting the RAN architecture shall
be allowed.
\- The RAN architecture shall allow for deployment flexibility e.g. to host
relevant RAN, CN and application functions close together at the edges of the
network, when needed, e.g. to enable context aware service delivery, low
latency services, etc...
\- The RAN architecture shall allow for C-plane/U-plane separation.
\- The RAN architecture shall allow deployments using Network Function
Virtualization.
> \- The RAN architecture shall allow for the RAN and the CN to evolve
> independently.
>
> \- The RAN architecture shall allow for the operation of Network Slicing3GPP
> TR 23.799 [7].
>
> \- The RAN architecture shall support sharing of the RAN between multiple
> operators.
\- The design of the RAN architecture shall allow the deployment of new
services rapidly and efficiently.
\- The design of the RAN architecture shall allow the support of 3GPP defined
service classes (e.g. interactive, background, streaming and conversational).
\- The design of the RAN architecture shall enable lower CAPEX/OPEX with
respect to current networks to achieve the same level of services.
\- RAN-CN interfaces and RAN internal interfaces (both between new RAT logical
nodes/functions and between new RAT and LTE logical nodes/functions) shall be
open for multi-vendor interoperability.
\- The RAN architecture shall support operator-controlled sidelink (device-to-
device) operation, both in coverage and out of coverage.
# 9 Supplementary-Service related requirements
## 9.1 Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service
The new RAT shall support existing Multicast/Broadcast services (e.g.
download, streaming, group communication, TV, etc.) and new services (e.g.
V2X, etc).
The new RAT shall support dynamic adjustment of the Multicast/Broadcast area
based on e.g. the user distribution or service requirements.
The new RAT shall support concurrent delivery of both unicast and
Multicast/Broadcast services to the users.
The new RAT shall support efficient multiplexing with unicast transmissions in
at least frequency domain and time domain.
The new RAT shall support static and dynamic resource allocation between
Multicast/Broadcast and unicast; the new RAT shall in particular allow support
of up to 100% of DL resources for Multicast/Broadcast (100% meaning a
dedicated MBMS carrier).
The new RAT shall support Multicast/Broadcast network sharing between multiple
participating MNOs, including the case of a dedicated MBMS network.
The new RAT shall make it possible to cover large geographical areas up to the
size of an entire country in SFN mode with network synchronization and shall
allow cell radii of up to 100 km if required to facilitate that objective. It
shall also support local, regional and national broadcast areas.
The new RAT shall support Multicast/Broadcast services for fixed, portable and
mobile UEs. Mobility up to 250 km/h shall be supported.
The new RAT shall leverage usage of RAN equipment (hard- and software)
including e.g. multi-antenna capabilities (e.g. MIMO) to improve
Multicast/Broadcast capacity and reliability.
The new RAT shall support Multicast/Broadcast services for mMTC devices.
## 9.2 Location/Positioning Service
The NR should enable, and improve if suitable, state-of-art positioning
techniques, such as RAN-embedded (Cell-ID, E-Cell ID, OTDOA, UTDOA, etc.) and
RAN-external (GNSS, Bluetooth, WLAN, Terrestrial Beacon Systems (TBS),
sensors, etc.). Additionally, potential D2D based positioning techniques
should be considered.
The NR positioning shall exploit high bandwidth, massive antenna systems,
network architecture/ functionalities (e.g. heterogeneous networks, broadcast,
MBMS) and deployment of massive number of devices. NR positioning shall
support indoors and outdoors use cases.
NR shall support regulatory positioning requirements.
NR design targets for commercial positioning use cases include:
1\. Support for range of accuracy levels, latency levels and device categories
2\. Support accuracy and latency as defined in TR 22.862 for some use cases
3\. Reduced network complexity
3\. Reduced device cost
4\. Reduced device power consumption
5\. Efficient signalling over the air interface and in the network
6\. Support for hybrid positioning methods
7\. Scalability (support for large number of devices)
8\. High security
9\. High availability
10\. Support UE speed as defined in TR 22.862
## 9.3 Critical Communications services
### 9.3.1 Public safety communications
The RAN design for the Next Generation Radio Access Technologies shall support
D2D (e.g. ProSe in 3GPP TS 23.303 [8]).
The RAN design for the Next Generation Radio Access Technologies shall support
Mission Critical Communications for diverse types of services (e.g. MCPTT,
MCVideo, MCData in 3GPP TS 22.179 [9], 3GPP TS 22.280 [20], 3GPP TS 22.281
[21], and 3GPP TS 22.282 [22]).
The RAN design for the Next Generation Radio Access Technologies shall support
efficient group communications (e.g. GCSE_LTE, SC-PTM in 3GPP TS 22.468 [10]
and 3GPP TR 36.890 [11]).
The RAN design for the Next Generation Radio Access Technologies shall support
isolated communications (e.g. IOPS in 3GPP TS 22.346 [23]).
### 9.3.2 Emergency communications
The RAN design for the Next Generation Radio Access Technologies shall provide
mechanisms to enable emergency calls including positioning/location for
emergency calls (such as is found in 3GPP TS 22.101 [12] section 10 for
emergency calls and 3GPP TS 22.071 [13] for position/location) when
appropriate.
The RAN design for the Next Generation Radio Access Technologies shall provide
mechanisms to enable Multimedia Priority Services (such as is found in 3GPP TS
22.153 [14]).
### 9.3.3 Public warning/emergency alert systems
The RAN design for the Next Generation Radio Access Technologies shall provide
mechanisms to enable public warning services that provides
warning/notifications to users meeting regional regulatory requirements (such
as is found in 3GPP TS 22.268 [15]).
## 9.4 V2X communication
The RAN design for NR V2X shall provide communication via infrastructure,
including MBMS support, for V2X services (such as found in 3GPP TS 22.185
[17]) and advanced V2X services (such as found in the outcome of the SA1 study
3GPP TS 22.886 [18]).
The RAN design for NR V2X shall provide communication via sidelink for V2X
services (such as found in 3GPP TS 22.185 [17]) and advanced V2X services
(such as found in the outcome of the SA1 study 3GPP TS 22.886 [18]).
# 10 Operational requirements
## 10.0 General
The RAN design for the Next Generation Radio Access Technologies shall be
designed to fulfill the following requirements:
\- RF requirements for multi-standard base stations shall be supported also
for the new RAT.
\- The RAN nodes shall be designed to allow upgrade by software as much as
possible.
## 10.1 Spectrum
### 10.1.1 Void
### 10.1.2 Channel bandwidth scalability
Bandwidth scalability means the ability to operate with different bandwidth
allocations.
It is a qualitative KPI.
### 10.1.3 Void
### 10.1.4 Duplexing flexibility
Duplexing flexibility means the ability of the access technology to adapt its
allocation of resources flexibly for uplink and downlink for both paired and
unpaired frequency bands.
### 10.1.5 Support of shared spectrum
Next Generation Radio Access Technologies should support efficient mechanisms
to share either licensed or unlicensed spectrum with other IMT/Non-IMT
systems.
### 10.1.6 Spectrum range
Next Generation Radio Access Technologies should support potential use of
frequency range up to 100 GHz.
## 10.2 UL Link Budget
For eMBB, NR uplink should target at least the same link budget (i.e. MCL) as
LTE uplink, under the same usage scenarios and similar deployment
configurations (e.g., same carrier frequency).
## 10.3 Support for wide range of services
Support for wide range of services means the system shall be inherently
flexible enough to meet the connectivity requirements of a range of existing
and future (as yet unknown) services to be deployable on a single continuous
block of spectrum in an efficient manner.
## 10.4 Co-existence and interworking with legacy RATs
### 10.4.1 Co-existence with LTE
The New RAT should be able to support flexible allocation of resources (e.g.
time, frequency) between the new RAT and LTE operating in the same block of
spectrum (with possible bandwidths overlap). Resource allocation granularity
in the time/frequency domain, as well as the potential guards between NR and
LTE resources are to be determined by the study on the new RAT. The New RAT
should be able to use these resources at least for downlink, uplink and
sidelink. The solution should work whether LTE is supported by the same base
station as the New RAT or the two RATs are supported by different base
stations. The solution should not affect backward compatibility with legacy
LTE terminals. These requirements are applicable for LTE Rel-8 and onwards,
including NB-IoT.
This flexible allocation of resources should enable a progressive downsize of
operators assigned bandwidth used by LTE, and the corresponding increase in
the bandwidth used by NR.
Note: this requirement may be supported with different levels of flexibility
depending on the LTE capability/release.
The New RAT shall be able to co-exist with LTE on adjacent spectrum in the
same band in the same geographical area, including collocated deployments of
the same or different operators; where the ability to coexist is based upon an
agreed maximum degradation of throughput that is found acceptable on LTE.
These requirements are applicable for paired and unpaired spectrum.
### 10.4.2 Co-existence with UMTS and GSM/EDGE
The New RAT shall be able to co-exist with UMTS and GSM/EDGE on adjacent
spectrum in the same band in the same geographical area, including collocated
deployments of the same or different operators; where the ability to coexist
is based upon an agreed maximum degradation of throughput and outage that is
found acceptable on UMTS and GSM/EDGE, respectively.
Coexistence on adjacent spectrum in the same geographical area should enable a
progressive downsize of operators assigned bandwidth used by UMTS and
GSM/EDGE, and the corresponding increase in the bandwidth used by NR.
These requirements are applicable for paired and unpaired spectrum.
## 10.4.3 V2X communication
It is not intended for NR V2X to replace the services offered by LTE V2X.
Instead, the NR V2X shall complement LTE V2X for advanced V2X services and
support interworking with LTE V2X.
## 10.5 Void
## 10.6 Interworking with non-3GPP systems
### 10.6.1 General
3GPP system shall support procedures for interworking with non 3GPP RATs.
### 10.6.2 Interworking with WLAN
The next generation access network shall support interworking with WLAN. The
number of solutions selected should be minimized.
### 10.6.3 Void
## 10.7 Void
## 10.8 Easy operation and Self Organization requirements
The RAN design for the Next Generation Radio Access Technologies shall be
designed to fulfill the following requirements:
\- RAN shall support the deployment of RAN SON functions in a hybrid manner
(distributed and centralized).
\- Collaboration and coordination among RAN SON functions need to be
addressed.
\- User / application level QoS and QoE monitoring capability by UEs and
network elements shall be supported.
## 10.9 Void
## 10.10 Cost-related requirements
### 10.10.1 Balance of complexity and performance
The cost of introduction of massive MIMO technology is impacted by the analog
parts, which are directly related with RF performance requirements. Since
massive MIMO is seen as a key technology for NR, the requirements levels must
be chosen carefully and careful consideration of how they are defined must be
undertaken, in order to enable economically viable deployments. This applies
for all types of NR deployments, but is of particular importance for massive
MIMO nodes employing Active Antenna Systems, or Advanced Antenna Systems in a
more general sense.
In particular, some RF requirements may need more careful consideration, such
as the out of band emission limits and the maximum ratio between overall
system power and individual power per RF chain/antenna element. In addition to
the implied complexity and cost, the RF requirements must be defined with co-
existence and sharing performance in mind and respecting regulatory limits.
Particular care has to be taken in how to define unwanted emission limits with
respect to the increasing size of the massive MIMO configuration in a proper
way that does not lead to excessively high unwanted emission.
### 10.10.2 Low-cost requirements
3GPP shall support ultra-low cost network infrastructures, ultra-low cost
devices, and ultra-low cost operation and maintenance to enable economically
viable deployments for the Provision of minimal services (Data and Voice) for
very low-ARPU areas.
## 10.11 Energy-related requirements
## 10.12 Security and Privacy related requirement relevant for Radio Access
The RAN design for the Next Generation Radio Access Technologies shall ensure
support for integrity and confidentiality protection of radio signalling
messages, including messages between RAN and Core network nodes.
The RAN design for the Next Generation Radio Access Technologies shall ensure
the ability to support integrity and confidentiality protection of user plane
messages, including messages between RAN and Core network nodes, with the use
of such security to be configurable during security set-up.
The RAN design for the Next Generation Radio Access Technologies shall ensure
support for the allocation and use of identities to provide user privacy, e.g.
reduce the need for sending any permanent identities in the clear.
The RAN design for the Next Generation Radio Access Technologies shall ensure
the efficient establishment of RAN security mechanisms.
The RAN design for the Next Generation Radio Access Technologies shall ensure
resilience against jamming.
NOTE1: Security and Privacy-related system requirements are reflected in 3GPP
TR 33.899 [19]. This TR includes security areas on \"RAN security\" and
\"Privacy security\", which is a possible source of security and privacy
related requirements for the Radio Access.
## 10.13 Void
## 10.14 Lawful Interception
The RAN design for the Next Generation Radio Access Technologies shall provide
mechanisms to enable lawful intercept for appropriate services (as per 3GPP TS
33.106 [16]).
## 10.15 Backhaul and signalling optimization requirements
The RAN system shall have the capability to minimize the backhaul and
signalling load in line with the requirements in section 5.48 of 3GPP TR
22.891 [3]).
## 10.16 Relay requirements
The design of the 5G RAN and Radio Interface Technology shall aim at
supporting wireless relay functions.
## 10.17 High availability
The RAN availability is characterized by its availability rate X, defined as
follows: a base station is available for the targeted communication X% of the
time. Unavailable communication for shorter period than [Y] ms shall not be
counted.
The NR specification's ability to provide URLLC services shall not be
compromised by the functions defined to improve the network or UE energy
efficiency, or by system reconfigurations and software upgrades.
## 10.18 Void
# 11 Testing and Conformance Requirements
\- Conformance requirements shall be defined for NR on all deployment bands
\- Features/components of NR shall be designed in such a way that it is
feasible to define test specifications for these features/components for both
UE and BS on all deployment bands
#