# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 3 protocol and data model for the
UAS-NF functionality of the Nnef Service Based Interface. It provides stage 3
protocol definitions and message flows, and specifies the API for each service
offered by the NEF (UAS-NF).
The 5G System stage 2 architecture and procedures are specified in 3GPP TS
23.501 [2] and 3GPP TS 23.502 [3].
The Technical Realization of the Service Based Architecture and the Principles
and Guidelines for Services Definition are specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] and
3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
The Uncrewed Aerial System Network Function (UAS-NF) provides the UAS-specific
NEF services to NF service consumers (e.g. AMF, SMF). The UAS-NF is
functionality within the NEF.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.501: \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services
Definition; Stage 3\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.256: \"Support of Uncrewed Aerial Systems (UAS) connectivity,
identification and tracking; Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TR 21.900: \"Technical Specification Group working methods\".
[8] IETF RFC 7540: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2 (HTTP/2)\".
[9] OpenAPI Initiative, \"OpenAPI 3.0.0 Specification\",
[https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-
Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md.]{.underline}
[10] IETF RFC 8259: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
[11] IETF RFC 7807: \"Problem Details for HTTP APIs\".
[12] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[13] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[14] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"Network Function Repository Services; Stage 3\".
[15] 3GPP TS 29.571: \"5G System; Common Data Types for Service Based
Interfaces; Stage 3\".
[16] 3GPP TS 24.501: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for 5G System (5GS);
Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 23.256 [6] shall apply.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AA Authorization/Authentication
BRID Broadcast Remote Identification
BVLOS Beyond Visual Line of Sight
C2 Command and Control
NRID Networked Remote Identification
PEI Permanent Equipment Identifier
RID Remote Identification
TPAE Third Party Authorized Entity
UAS Uncrewed Aerial System
UAV Uncrewed Aerial Vehicle
USS UAS Service Supplier
UTM Uncrewed Aerial System Traffic Management
UUAA USS UAV AA
UUID Universal Unique Identifier
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 Introduction {#introduction-1}
Within the 5GC, the NEF (UAS-NF) offers services to the AMF, SMF, and PCF via
the Nnef service based interface, and the NEF (UAS-NF) offers services to the
SMF+PGW-C via the Nnef service based interface for UUAA-SM and C2 procedure
supported in EPS (see 3GPP TS 23.256 [6]).
Figure 4.1-1 provides the reference model (in service based interface
representation and in reference point representation), with focus on the NEF
(UAS-NF) and the scope of the present specification.
Figure 4.1-1: Reference model -- NEF (UAS-NF)
The functionalities supported by the NEF (UAS-NF) are listed in clause 4.3.2
of 3GPP TS 23.256 [6].
# 5 Services offered by the NEF (UAS-NF)
## 5.1 Introduction {#introduction-2}
The table 5.1-1 shows the NEF (UAS-NF) Services and Service Operations:
Table 5.1-1 List of NEF (UAS-NF) Services
Service Name Service Operations Operation Semantics Example Consumer(s) Mapped
Service Operation
* * *
Nnef_Authentication AuthenticateAuthorize Request/Response AMF, SMF, SMF+PGW-C
Nnef_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize Notification Subscribe/Notify AMF,
SMF, SMF+PGW-C Nnef_Authentication_Notification
## 5.2 Nnef_Authentication Service
### 5.2.1 Service Description
The service allows communication of authentication and authorization messages
between AMF/SMF and external AF (USS). An NF as service consumer (e.g. AMF,
SMF, SMF+PGW-C) can authenticate or subscribe to receive notifications from
NEF (UAS-NF) related to reauthentication, update authorization data or revoke
authorization of the UAV.
### 5.2.2 Service Operations
#### 5.2.2.1 Introduction {#introduction-3}
The Nnef_Authentication service supports following service operations:
\- AuthenticateAuthorize
\- Notification
#### 5.2.2.2 AuthenticateAuthorize Service Operation
##### 5.2.2.2.1 General
The AuthenticateAuthorize service operation is used during the following
procedure:
\- UUAA-MM and UUAA-SM procedures (see 3GPP TS 23.256 [6], clause 5.2.2 and
clause 5.2.3, respectively)
\- C2 authorization (see 3GPP TS 23.256 [6], clause 5.2.5 and clause 5.4)
The AuthenticateAuthorize service operation is invoked by an NF Service
Consumer (e.g. an AMF, SMF, SMF+PGW-C) towards the NEF (UAS-NF), when UUAA-MM
is done at 5GS registration, UUAA-SM is done at PDU session establishment, or
for Authorization for C2 in 5GS or EPS.
The NF Service Consumer (e.g. the AMF or the SMF or the SMF+PGW-C) shall send
the authentication message to NEF (UAS-NF) by sending the HTTP POST request
towards the UAV Authentications resource as shown in Figure 5.2.2.2.1-1.
Figure 5.2.2.2.1-1: AuthenticateAuthorize Service Operation
1\. The NF Service Consumer shall send a POST request to the resource
representing the UAV Authentications resource of the NEF (UAS-NF) with a
\"UAVAuthInfo\" object in the request body, including:
\- gpsi IE set to GPSI (in the format of External Identifier) of the UAV;
\- serviceLevelId IE set to Service Level Device Identity;
\- authMsg IE contains the service-level AA message
. This IE is deprecated; the \"authContainer\" IE should be used instead.
\- \"authContainer\" IE that contains one or more authentication message(s) in
the AA container provided by the UE (see 3GPP TS 23.256 [6]). This IE
deprecates the \"authMsg\" IE.
\- authNotificationURI IE provides the notification URI to receive
notifications related to authentication;
\- authServerAddress IE provides the Authorization Server Address, e.g.
Authorization Server FQDN. This IE is not included for intermediate round-trip
authentication messages;
\- nfType IE carries the NF type of the NF service consumer (e.g. AMF or SMF
or SMF+PGW-C); and
\- userLocInfo IE provides the user location information (e.g. cell Id).
If the NF Service Consumer is SMF or SMF+PGW-C, the \"UAVAuthInfo\" also may
include:
\- ipAddr IE carries the IP Address associated with the PDU session;
\- pei IE carries the PEI;
If the NF Service Consumer is SMF or SMF+PGW-C, for UUAA-MM and UUAA-SM
procedures the \"UAVAuthInfo\" also may include:
\- dnn IE carries the DNN which can be used by NEF (UAS-NF) later on to create
a subscription at SMF; and
\- sNssai IE carries the S-NSSAI which can be used by NEF (UAS-NF) later on to
create a subscription at SMF.
2a. On success, the NEF (UAS-NF) shall store the result and return \"200 OK\".
For intermediate round-trip messages, the payload body (i.e. UAVAuthResponse)
shall contain the GPSI of the UAV and Service Level Device Identity. The
payload body optionally includes \"authContainer\", see 3GPP TS 23.256 [6] for
further details.
For the final NEF (UAS-NF) to NF service consumer message, the payload body
(i.e. UAVAuthResponse) shall contain the GPSI of the UAV, notifyCorrId
attribute and \"authResult\" attribute. If the UAV is authenticated
successfully, the NEF (UAS-NF) shall set the \"authResult\" attribute to
\"AUTH_SUCCESS\". \"authMsg\" and \"authResult\" attributes are deprecated;
the attribute \"authContainer\" should be used instead. The payload body shall
contain the authorized Service Level Device Identity and \"authContainer\"
payload delivering the AA result, configuration information to the UAV. The
AMF forwards the message transparently to UE over NAS MM.
2b. On failure or redirection, one of the HTTP status codes listed in Table
6.1.7.3-1 shall be returned. For a 4xx/5xx response, the message body
containing a ProblemDetails structure with the \"cause\" attribute set to one
of the application errors listed in Table 6.1.7.3-1.
If the NEF (UAS-NF) cannot successfully fulfil the received HTTP POST request
due to an internal error or an error in the HTTP POST request, the NEF (UAS-
NF) shall send the HTTP error response as specified in clause 6.1.7.
If the UAV authentication is failed, the NEF (UAS-NF) shall reject the request
with an HTTP \"403 Forbidden\" response message including the \"cause\"
attribute of the ProblemDetails data structure set to
\"AUTHENTICATION_FAILURE\". NEF (UAS-NF) shall also include an indication of
uasResourceRelease received from the USS to indicate if the PDU sessions
associated with the \"DNN(s) subject to aerial services\" can be released or
not, during re-authentication failure, when the service operation is used
during Re-authentication procedure.
In above steps, while there is no expected response from the USS in the case
of time out, the NEF(UAS-NF) shall return HTTP status code \"504 Gateway
Timeout\", with the message body containing a ProblemDetails structure with
the \"cause\" attribute set to \"PEER_NOT_RESPONDING\".
#### 5.2.2.3 AuthNotify Service Operation
##### 5.2.2.3.1 General
The AuthNotify service operation is used during the following procedure:
\- USS Initiated reauthentication (see 3GPP TS 23.256 [6], clause 5.2.4)
\- USS Initiated update authorization data or revoke authorization of the UAV
The AuthNotify service operation is invoked by the NEF (UAS-NF) to inform a NF
Service Consumer (e.g. AMF, SMF, SMF+PGW-C), when USS triggers
reauthentication, update authorization data or revoke authorization of the
UAV. NEF (UAS-NF) shall determine the NF service consumer based on the
previously stored UUAA context during the successful UUAA procedure as defined
in clause 5.2.2.2.
The NEF (UAS-NF) shall send the AuthNotify request by sending the HTTP POST
method towards the Notification URI as shown in Figure 5.2.2.3.1-1.
Figure 5.2.2.3.1-1: AuthNotify Service Operation
1\. The NEF (UAS-NF) shall send a POST request towards the Notification URI
received in the Authenticate service operation request (See clause 5.2.2.2.1).
If the AMF for UUAA-MM has changed, the NEF (UAS-NF) should discover the
Notification URI of the new AMF via NRF (in the default notification
subscription with the \"UUAA_MM_AUTH_NOTIFICATION\" notification type). The
NEF (UAS-NF) shall be able to determine the NF type of the NF service consumer
by nfType IE received in the Authenticate service operation request. The
request body shall contain an \"AuthNotification\" object containing the
reauthentication information or update authorization information or revoke
authorization indication.
When the procedure is used for reauthentication or reauthorization/update
authorization information, the AuthNotification object includes:
\- the gpsi IE set to the GPSI (in the format of External Identifier) of the
given UAV required to be reauthenticated;
\- serviceLevelId IE set to the Service Level Device Identity of the UAV;
\- authMsg IE contains the service-level AA message. This IE is deprecated;
the \"authContainer\" IE should be used instead.
\- \"authContainer\" IE that contains AA related data provided by the UE (see
3GPP TS 23.256 [6]). This IE deprecates the \"authMsg\" IE.
\- notifType IE set to REAUTH used for reauthentication and/or notifType IE
set to UPDATEAUTH used for update authorization data; and
\- notifyCorrId IE set to the notification correlation ID;
When the procedure is used for authorization revocation, the AuthNotification
object includes:
\- the gpsi IE set to the GPSI (in the format of External Identifier) of the
given UAV;
\- serviceLevelId IE set to the Service Level Device Identity of the UAV;
\- notifType IE set to REVOKE; and
\- notifyCorrId IE set to the notification correlation ID;
2a. On success, \"204 No content\" shall be returned without response body. If
the NF Service consumer remove the successful UUAA result during UUAA
Revocation procedure, the NEF (UAS-NF) shall remove the UUAA context (see
clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 23.256 [6]).
2b. On failure or redirection, one of the HTTP status code listed in Table
6.1.5.2.3.1-3 shall be returned. For a 4xx/5xx response, the response body
should contain a \"ProblemDetails\" object.
If the NF service consumer cannot successfully fulfil the received HTTP POST
request due to an internal error or an error in the HTTP POST request, the NF
service consumer shall send an HTTP error response as specified in clause
6.1.7.
# 6 API Definitions
## 6.1 Nnef_Authentication Service API
### 6.1.1 Introduction {#introduction-4}
The Nnef_Authentication shall use the Nnef_Authentication API.
The API URI of the Nnef_Authentication API shall be:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\**
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the NF service consumer towards
the NF service producer shall have the Resource URI structure defined in
clause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5], i.e.:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\/\**
with the following components:
\- The {apiRoot} shall be set as described in 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
\- The \ shall be \"nnef-authentication\".
\- The \ shall be \"v1\".
\- The \ shall be set as described in clause
6.1.3.
### 6.1.2 Usage of HTTP
#### 6.1.2.1 General
HTTP/2, IETF RFC 7540 [8], shall be used as specified in clause 5 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4].
HTTP/2 shall be transported as specified in clause 5.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
The OpenAPI [9] specification of HTTP messages and content bodies for the
Nnef_Authentication API is contained in Annex A.
#### 6.1.2.2 HTTP standard headers
##### 6.1.2.2.1 General
See clause 5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] for the usage of HTTP standard headers.
##### 6.1.2.2.2 Content type
JSON, IETF RFC 8259 [10], shall be used as content type of the HTTP bodies
specified in the present specification as specified in clause 5.4 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4]. The use of the JSON format shall be signalled by the content type
\"application/json\".
\"Problem Details\" JSON object shall be used to indicate additional details
of the error in a HTTP response body and shall be signalled by the content
type \"application/problem+json\", as defined in IETF RFC 7807 [11].
#### 6.1.2.3 HTTP custom headers
The mandatory HTTP custom header fields specified in clause 5.2.3.2 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4] shall be applicable.
### 6.1.3 Resources
#### 6.1.3.1 Overview
This clause describes the structure for the Resource URIs and the resources
and methods used for the service.
Figure 6.1.3.1-1 depicts the resource URIs structure for the
Nnef_Authentication API.
Figure 6.1.3.1-1: Resource URI structure of the Nnef_Authentication API
Table 6.1.3.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 6.1.3.1-1: Resources and methods overview
Resource name Resource URI HTTP method or custom operation Description
* * *
uav-authentications /uav-authentications POST A UAV authentication
#### 6.1.3.2 Resource: uav-authentications
The resource represents UAV Authentications to be done with the NEF (UAS-NF).
##### 6.1.3.2.1 Description
##### 6.1.3.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nnef-authentication/\ /uav-
authentications**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.2.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
Name Data type Definition
* * *
apiRoot string See clause 6.1.1
##### 6.1.3.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### 6.1.3.2.3.1 POST
This method performs UAV authentication.
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.2.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the POST method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.2.3.1-3.
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description UAVAuthInfo M 1 Represents the data to be
used for UAV authentication
* * *
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | UA | M | 1 | 200 OK | Successful | | VAuthResponse | | | | request of | | | | | | UAV | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthentication | | | | | | and | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthorization. | | | | | | If C2 | | | | | | authorization | | | | | | request is | | | | | | sent during | | | | | | UUAA-SM, the | | | | | | final | | | | | | response | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | that at least | | | | | | UUAA has | | | | | | succeeded. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | U | O | 0..1 | 403 Forbidden | This | | AVAuthFailure | | | | represents | | | | | | that the UAV | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthentication | | | | | | is failed, | | | | | | the \"cause\" | | | | | | attribute of | | | | | | the | | | | | | P | | | | | | roblemDetails | | | | | | data | | | | | | structure set | | | | | | to one of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | AUTHENTICA | | | | | | TION_FAILURE | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | SERVICE\ | | | | | | _NOT_ALLOWED | | | | | | | | | | | | See table | | | | | | 6.1.7.3-1 for | | | | | | the | | | | | | description | | | | | | of these | | | | | | errors. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 504 Gateway | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | Timeout | attribute may | | | | | | be used to | | | | | | indicate the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | error: | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | PEER_NO | | | | | | T_RESPONDING | | | | | | | | | | | | See table | | | | | | 6.1.7.3-1 for | | | | | | the | | | | | | description | | | | | | of the error. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Red | | | | | | irectResponse | | | | | | may be | | | | | | inserted by | | | | | | an SCP, see | | | | | | clause | | | | | | 6.10.9.1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4]. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this
resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance within | | | | | | the same NEF | | | | | | (UAS-NF) or NEF | | | | | | (UAS-NF) | | | | | | (service) set. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the case, | | | | | | when a request | | | | | | is redirected | | | | | | to the same | | | | | | target resource | | | | | | via a different | | | | | | SCP, see | | | | | | clause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | in | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [4]. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target NF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this
resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance within | | | | | | the same NEF | | | | | | (UAS-NF) or | | | | | | UAS-NF/NEF | | | | | | (service) set. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the case, | | | | | | when a request | | | | | | is redirected | | | | | | to the same | | | | | | target resource | | | | | | via a different | | | | | | SCP, see | | | | | | clause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | in | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [4]. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target NF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
##### 6.1.3.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
None
### 6.1.5 Notifications
#### 6.1.5.1 General
This clause specifies the notifications provided by the Nnef_Authentication
service.
Notifications shall comply to clause 6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] and clause
4.6.2.3 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
#### 6.1.5.2 Authentication Notification
##### 6.1.5.2.1 Description
The NF Service Consumer (e.g. the AMF or SMF or SMF+PGW-C) provides the
Notification URI for getting notified about reauthentication requested by the
USS. The NEF (UAS-NF) shall notify the NF Service Consumer when
reauthentication is requested by the USS.
##### 6.1.5.2.2 Target URI
The Notification URI **\"{notifUri}\"** shall be used with the callback URI
variables defined in table 6.1.5.2.2-1.
Table 6.1.5.2.2-1: Callback URI variables
Name Definition
* * *
notificationUri String formatted as URI with the Callback Uri
##### 6.1.5.2.3 Standard Methods
##### 6.1.5.2.3.1 POST {#post-1 .H6}
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.5.2.3.1-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.5.2.3.1-2.
Table 6.1.5.2.3.1-1: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body
Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
AuthNotification M 1 Contains the reauthentication information.
Table 6.1.5.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | codes | | +===============+===+=============+===============+===============+ | n/a | | | 204 No | Successful | | | | | Content | notification | | | | | | of | | | | | | rea | | | | | | uthentication | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply, | | | | | | with response | | | | | | body | | | | | | containing an | | | | | | object of | | | | | | P | | | | | | roblemDetails | | | | | | data type | | | | | | (see | | | | | | clause 5.2.7 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS 2 | | | | | | 9.500 [4]). | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Red | | | | | | irectResponse | | | | | | may be | | | | | | inserted by | | | | | | an SCP, see | | | | | | cl | | | | | | ause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4]. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 6.1.5.2.3.1-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 A URI pointing to
the endpoint of NF service consumer to which the notification should be sent.
For the case, when a request is redirected to the same target resource via a
different SCP, see clause 6.10.9.1 in 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]. 3gpp-Sbi-Target-Nf-
Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the target NF (service) instance ID towards
which the notification is redirected.
* * *
Table 6.1.5.2.3.1-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 A URI pointing to
the endpoint of NF service consumer to which the notification should be sent.
For the case, when a request is redirected to the same target resource via a
different SCP, see clause 6.10.9.1 in 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]. 3gpp-Sbi-Target-Nf-
Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the target NF (service) instance ID towards
which the notification is redirected.
* * *
### 6.1.6 Data Model
#### 6.1.6.1 General
This clause specifies the application data model supported by the API.
Table 6.1.6.1-1 specifies the data types defined for the Nnef_Authentication
service based interface protocol.
Table 6.1.6.1-1: Nnef_Authentication specific Data Types
Data type Clause defined Description Applicability
* * *
UAVAuthInfo 6.1.6.2.2 Information within Authenticate Request  
AuthNotification 6.1.6.2.3 Information within notification  
UAVAuthResponse 6.1.6.2.4 Information within Authenticate Response  
UAVAuthFailure 6.1.6.2.5 Information within Authenticate Response  
AuthResult 6.1.6.3.3 Enumeration indicating authentication result  
NotifType 6.1.6.3.4 Enumeration Notification type  
AuthContainer 6.1.6.2.6 Carries the AA related data
Table 6.1.6.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the Nnef_Authentication
service based interface protocol from other specifications, including a
reference to their respective specifications and when needed, a short
description of their use within the Nnef_Authentication service based
interface.
Table 6.1.6.1-2: Nnef_Authentication re-used Data Types
Data type Reference Comments Applicability
* * *
IpAddr 3GPP TS 29.571 [15] IP address  
Pei 3GPP TS 29.571 [15] Permanent Equipment Identifier  
Uri 3GPP TS 29.571 [15] Uri  
Gpsi 3GPP TS 29.571 [15] GPSI  
ExtSnssai 3GPP TS 29.571 [15] Ext Snssai  
Dnn 3GPP TS 29.571 [15] DNN information  
UserLocation 3GPP TS 29.571 [15] User location  
RedirectResponse 3GPP TS 29.571 [15] Contains redirection related information  
NFType 3GPP TS 29.510 [14] NF Type  
RefToBinaryData 3GPP TS 29.571 [15] authMsg data, AA message payload data  
Bytes 3GPP TS 29.571 [15] Binary data encoded as a base64 character string
#### 6.1.6.2 Structured data types
##### 6.1.6.2.1 Introduction {#introduction-5}
This clause defines the structures to be used in resource representations.
##### 6.1.6.2.2 Type: UAVAuthInfo
Table 6.1.6.2.2-1: Definition of type UAVAuthInfo
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +===========+===========+===+===========+===========+===========+ | gpsi | Gpsi | M | 1 | GPSI of | | | | | | | the UAV | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | servi | string | M | 1 | Service | | | ceLevelId | | | | Level | | | | | | | Device | | | | | | | Identity | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | UAV | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | ipAddr | IpAddr | O | 0..1 | This IE | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if the NF | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | | Consumer | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | | SMF or | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | MF+PGW-C. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | When | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | this IE | | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | | address | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ssociated | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | PDU | | | | | | | session. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | authMsg | RefToB | O | 0..1 | Contains | | | | inaryData | | | the | | | | | | | serv | | | | | | | ice-level | | | | | | | AA | | | | | | | message. | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | precated; | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | \"authCo | | | | | | | ntainer\" | | | | | | | should be | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | instead. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | auth | ar | O | 1..N | Contains | | | Container | ray(AuthC | | | the AA | | | | ontainer) | | | related | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | without | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | \"aut | | | | | | | hResult\" | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute. | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | eprecates | | | | | | | \" | | | | | | | authMsg\" | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | pei | Pei | O | 0..1 | This IE | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if the NF | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | | Consumer | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | | SMF or | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | MF+PGW-C. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | When | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | PEI | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ssociated | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | UAV. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | authServ | string | O | 0..1 | Provides | | | erAddress | | | | the | | | | | | | Auth | | | | | | | orization | | | | | | | Server | | | | | | | Address, | | | | | | | e.g. | | | | | | | Auth | | | | | | | orization | | | | | | | Server | | | | | | | FQDN. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | a | Uri | C | 0..1 | This IE | | | uthNotifi | | | | shall be | | | cationURI | | | | present | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | initial | | | | | | | authe | | | | | | | ntication | | | | | | | message. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | It | | | | | | | carries | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | URI to | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | authe | | | | | | | ntication | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | noti | | | | | | | fications | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | dnn | Dnn | C | 0..1 | This IE | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if the NF | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | | Consumer | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | | SMF or | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | MF+PGW-C. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | When | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | this IE | | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | | DNN | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ssociated | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | PDU | | | | | | | session. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | sNssai | ExtSnssai | C | 0..1 | This IE | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if the NF | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | | Consumer | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | | SMF. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | When | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | this IE | | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | S-NSSAI | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ssociated | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | PDU | | | | | | | session. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | ueLocInfo | Use | O | 0..1 | This IE | | | | rLocation | | | shall | | | | | | | contain | | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | formation | | | | | | | if it is | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | vailable. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | nfType | NFType | M | 1 | NFType of | | | | | | | the NF | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | consumer. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Possible | | | | | | | NFType | | | | | | | values | | | | | | | supported | | | | | | | in this | | | | | | | release | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > \- AMF | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | > \- SMF | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 6.1.6.2.3 Type: AuthNotification
Table 6.1.6.2.3-1: Definition of type AuthNotification
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +===========+===========+===+===========+===========+===========+ | gpsi | Gpsi | M | 1 | GPSI of | | | | | | | the UAV | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | servi | string | M | 1 | Service | | | ceLevelId | | | | Level | | | | | | | Device | | | | | | | Identity | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | UAV | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | authMsg | RefToB | C | 0..1 | Contains | | | | inaryData | | | the | | | | | | | serv | | | | | | | ice-level | | | | | | | AA | | | | | | | message. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This IE | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | notifType | | | | | | | is set to | | | | | | | \"UPDA | | | | | | | TEAUTH\". | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | precated; | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | \"authCo | | | | | | | ntainer\" | | | | | | | should be | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | instead. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | auth | ar | C | 1..N | Contains | | | Container | ray(AuthC | | | the AA | | | | ontainer) | | | related | | | | | | | data, | | | | | | | including | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | ptionally | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | \"aut | | | | | | | hResult\" | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute. | | | | | | | This IE | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | notifType | | | | | | | is set to | | | | | | | \"UPDA | | | | | | | TEAUTH\". | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | eprecates | | | | | | | \" | | | | | | | authMsg\" | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | notifType | NotifType | M | 1 | This IE | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | contain | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | type. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | not | string | M | 1 | This IE | | | ifyCorrId | | | | shall | | | | | | | contain | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | Not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | rrelation | | | | | | | Id. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 6.1.6.2.4 Type: UAVAuthResponse
Table 6.1.6.2.4-1: Definition of type UAVAuthResponse
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +===========+===========+===+===========+===========+===========+ | gpsi | Gpsi | M | 1 | GPSI of | | | | | | | the UAV | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | a | A | C | 0..1 | This IE | | | uthResult | uthResult | | | shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | final NEF | | | | | | | (UAS-NF) | | | | | | | to NF | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | | message. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Conveys | | | | | | | the UAV | | | | | | | authe | | | | | | | ntication | | | | | | | result. | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | precated; | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | \"authCo | | | | | | | ntainer\" | | | | | | | should be | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | instead. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | authMsg | RefToB | O | 0..1 | Contains | | | | inaryData | | | the | | | | | | | serv | | | | | | | ice-level | | | | | | | AA | | | | | | | message. | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | precated; | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | \"authCo | | | | | | | ntainer\" | | | | | | | should be | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | instead. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | auth | ar | C | 1..N | Contains | | | Container | ray(AuthC | | | the AA | | | | ontainer) | | | related | | | | | | | data, | | | | | | | including | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | \"aut | | | | | | | hResult\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | final AA | | | | | | | response. | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | final AA | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | message. | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | eprecates | | | | | | | \" | | | | | | | authMsg\" | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | servi | string | O | 0..1 | This IE | | | ceLevelId | | | | contains | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | uthorized | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | | Level | | | | | | | Device | | | | | | | Identity | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | not | string | O | 0..1 | When | | | ifyCorrId | | | | present, | | | | | | | this IE | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | contain | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | Not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | rrelation | | | | | | | Id. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 6.1.6.2.5 Type: UAVAuthFailure
Table 6.1.6.2.5-1: Definition of type UAVAuthFailure
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +===========+===========+===+===========+===========+===========+ | error | Probl | M | 1 | R | | | | emDetails | | | epresents | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | plication | | | | | | | error | | | | | | | inf | | | | | | | ormation. | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | plication | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | error | | | | | | | cause | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | encoded | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | \"cause\" | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | uasResour | boolean | C | 0..1 | This IE | | | ceRelease | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | and used | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | PDU | | | | | | | sessions | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ssociated | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | \"DNN(s) | | | | | | | subject | | | | | | | to aerial | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ervices\" | | | | | | | can be | | | | | | | released | | | | | | | or not, | | | | | | | during | | | | | | | re-authe | | | | | | | ntication | | | | | | | failure. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | It shall | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | included | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | \"cause\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | Probl | | | | | | | emDetails | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | structure | | | | | | | set to | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | "AUTHENTI | | | | | | | CATION_F | | | | | | | AILURE\". | | | | | | | | | | | | | | When | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | it shall | | | | | | | be set as | | | | | | | follows: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - true: | | | | | | | the PDU | | | | | | | sessions | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ssociated | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | \"DNN(s) | | | | | | | subject | | | | | | | to aerial | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ervices\" | | | | | | | release | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | equested; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - false | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | default): | | | | | | | the PDU | | | | | | | sessions | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ssociated | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | \"DNN(s) | | | | | | | subject | | | | | | | to aerial | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ervices\" | | | | | | | release | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | equested. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 6.1.6.2.6 Type: AuthContainer
Table 6.1.6.2.6-1: Definition of type AuthContainer
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
authMsgType Bytes O 0..1 This IE, when present, carries the Service-level-AA
payload type specified in clause 9.11.2.15 of 3GPP TS 24.501 [16].  
authMsgPayload RefToBinaryData O 0..1 AA message payload data.  
authResult AuthResult C 0..1 Shall be present for the final AA response
conveying the AA result.
#### 6.1.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations
##### 6.1.6.3.1 Introduction {#introduction-6}
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced
from data structures defined in the previous clauses.
##### 6.1.6.3.2 Simple data types
The simple data types defined in table 6.1.6.3.2-1 shall be supported.
Table 6.1.6.3.2-1: Simple data types
* * *
Type Name Type Definition Description Applicability
* * *
##### 6.1.6.3.3 Enumeration: AuthResult
The enumeration AuthResult represents the result of authentication and/or
authorization. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table
6.1.5.3.3-1.
Table 6.1.6.3.3-1: Enumeration AuthResult
Enumeration value Description Applicability
* * *
\"AUTH_SUCCESS\" The UAV authentication or C2 Authorization has succeeded.  
\"AUTH_FAIL\" The UAV authentication or C2 Authorization has failed.
##### 6.1.6.3.4 Enumeration: NotifType
The enumeration NotifType represents the type of notification. It shall comply
with the provisions defined in table 6.1.6.3.4-1.
Table 6.1.6.3.4-1: Enumeration NotifType
Enumeration value Description Applicability
* * *
\"REAUTH\" The UAV needs to be reauthenticated.  
\"UPDATEAUTH\" Authorization data needs to be updated to UAV.  
\"REVOKE\" Revoke UAV authentication and authorization
### 6.1.7 Error Handling
#### 6.1.7.1 General
For the Nnef_Authentication API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as
specified in clause 4.8 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]. Protocol errors and application
errors specified in table 5.2.7.2-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] shall be supported
for an HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes are specified as
mandatory for that HTTP method in table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the
Nnef_Authentication API.
#### 6.1.7.2 Protocol Errors
No specific procedures for the Nnef_Authentication service are specified.
#### 6.1.7.3 Application Errors
The application errors defined for the Nnef_Authentication service are listed
in Table 6.1.7.3-1.
Table 6.1.7.3-1: Application errors
Application Error HTTP status code Description
* * *
AUTHENTICATION_FAILURE 403 Forbidden The UAV authentication is failed
SERVICE_NOT_ALLOWED 403 Forbidden UAS services not allowed PEER_NOT_RESPONDING
504 Gateway Timeout No response is received from the remote peer (i.e. USS)
when time out.
### 6.1.8 Feature negotiation
The optional features in table 6.1.8-1 are defined for the Nnef_Authentication
API. They shall be negotiated using the extensibility mechanism defined in
clause 6.6 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
Table 6.1.8-1: Supported Features
Feature number Feature Name Description
* * *
### 6.1.9 Security
As indicated in 3GPP TS 33.501 [12] and 3GPP TS 29.500 [4], the access to the
Nnef_Authentication API may be authorized by means of the OAuth2 protocol (see
IETF RFC 6749 [13]), based on local configuration, using the \"Client
Credentials\" authorization grant, where the NRF (see 3GPP TS 29.510 [14])
plays the role of the authorization server.
If OAuth2 is used, an NF Service Consumer, prior to consuming services offered
by the Nnef_Authentication API, shall obtain a \"token\" from the
authorization server, by invoking the Access Token Request service, as
described in 3GPP TS 29.510 [14], clause 5.4.2.2.
NOTE: When multiple NRFs are deployed in a network, the NRF used as
authorization server is the same NRF that the NF Service Consumer used for
discovering the Nnef_Authentication service.
The Nnef_Authentication API defines a single scope \"nnef-authentication\" for
the entire service, and it does not define any additional scopes at resource
or operation level.
### 6.1.10 HTTP redirection
An HTTP request may be redirected to a different Nnef_Authentication service
instance when using direct or indirect communications (see 3GPP TS 29.500
[4]).
An SCP that reselects a different NEF (UAS-NF) producer instance will return
the NF Instance ID of the new NEF (UAS-NF) producer instance in the 3gpp-Sbi-
Producer-Id header, as specified in clause 6.10.3.4 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
If an NEF (UAS-NF) redirects a service request to a different NEF (UAS-NF)
using an 307 Temporary Redirect or 308 Permanent Redirect status code, the
identity of the new NEF (UAS-NF) towards which the service request is
redirected shall be indicated in the 3gpp-Sbi-Target-Nf-Id header of the 307
Temporary Redirect or 308 Permanent Redirect response as specified in clause
6.10.9.1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
###### ## Annex A (normative): OpenAPI specification
# A.1 General
This Annex specifies the formal definition of the API(s) defined in the
present specification. It consists of OpenAPI 3.0.0 specifications in YAML
format, following guidelines in 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
This Annex takes precedence when being discrepant to other parts of the
specification with respect to the encoding of information elements and methods
within the API(s).
NOTE 1: The semantics and procedures, as well as conditions, e.g. for the
applicability and allowed combinations of attributes or values, not expressed
in the OpenAPI definitions but defined in other parts of the specification
also apply.
Informative copies of the OpenAPI specification files contained in this 3GPP
Technical Specification are available on a Git-based repository that uses the
GitLab software version control system (see clause 5.3.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]
and clause 5B of 3GPP TR 21.900 [7]).
# A.2 Nnef_Authentication API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
title: Nnef_Authentication
version: \'1.0.2\'
description: \|
NEF Auth Service.
© 2022, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: >
3GPP TS 29.256 V17.3.0; 5G System;Uncrewed Aerial Systems Network Function
(UAS-NF);
Aerial Management Services; Stage 3
url: https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.256/
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/nnef-authentication/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in clause 4.4 of 3GPP TS 29.501
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- nnef-authentication
paths:
/uav-authentications:
post:
summary: UAV authentication
tags:
\- UAV authentication
requestBody:
description: UAV authentication
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UAVAuthInfo\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: UAV Auth response or message exchange
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UAVAuthResponse\'
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'403\':
description: UAV authentication failure
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UAVAuthFailure\'
\'504\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/504\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
callbacks:
authNotification:
\'{request.body#/authNotification }\':
post:
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AuthNotification\'
responses:
\'204\':
description: Successful Notification response
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{nrfApiRoot}/oauth2/token\'
scopes:
nnef-authentication: Access to the Nnef_authentication API
schemas:
#
# STRUCTURED DATA TYPES
#
UAVAuthInfo:
description: UAV auth data
type: object
required:
\- gpsi
\- serviceLevelId
\- nfType
properties:
gpsi:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Gpsi\'
serviceLevelId:
type: string
authNotificationURI:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
ipAddr:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/IpAddr\'
pei:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Pei\'
authServerAddress:
type: string
authMsg:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/RefToBinaryData\'
deprecated: true
authContainer:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AuthContainer\'
minItems: 1
ueLocInfo:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/UserLocation\'
dnn:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Dnn\'
sNssai:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ExtSnssai\'
nfType:
\$ref: \'TS29510_Nnrf_NFManagement.yaml#/components/schemas/NFType\'
UAVAuthResponse:
description: UAV auth response data
type: object
required:
\- gpsi
properties:
gpsi:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Gpsi\'
serviceLevelId:
type: string
authMsg:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/RefToBinaryData\'
deprecated: true
authContainer:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AuthContainer\'
minItems: 1
authResult:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AuthResult\'
deprecated: true
notifyCorrId:
type: string
AuthNotification:
description: UAV related notification
type: object
required:
\- gpsi
\- serviceLevelId
\- notifType
\- notifyCorrId
properties:
gpsi:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Gpsi\'
serviceLevelId:
type: string
notifyCorrId:
type: string
authMsg:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/RefToBinaryData\'
deprecated: true
authContainer:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AuthContainer\'
minItems: 1
notifType:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NotifType\'
UAVAuthFailure:
description: UAV auth failure
type: object
required:
\- error
properties:
error:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
uasResourceRelease:
type: boolean
default: false
AuthContainer:
description: Authentication/Authorization data
type: object
properties:
authMsgType:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Bytes\'
authMsgPayload:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/RefToBinaryData\'
authResult:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AuthResult\'
#
# SIMPLE DATA TYPES
#
#
# ENUMERATIONS
#
AuthResult:
description: Enumeration representing the result of authentication and/or
authorization.
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- AUTH_SUCCESS
\- AUTH_FAIL
\- type: string
NotifType:
description: Enumeration representing the type of notification.
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- REAUTH
\- UPDATEAUTH
\- REVOKE
\- type: string
#