# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 3 protocol and data model for the
AAnF Service Based Interface. It provides stage 3 protocol definitions and
message flows, and specifies the API for each service offered by the AAnF.
The 5G System stage 2 architecture and procedures are specified in 3GPP TS
23.501 [2], 3GPP TS 23.502 [3] and 3GPP TS 33.535 [14].
The Technical Realization of the Service Based Architecture and the Principles
and Guidelines for Services Definition are specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] and
3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
Release as the present document.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.501: \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services
Definition; Stage 3\".
[6] OpenAPI: \"OpenAPI Specification Version 3.0.0\",
https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.0.
[7] 3GPP TR 21.900: \"Technical Specification Group working methods\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[9] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"5G System; Network Function Repository Services; Stage
3\".
[11] IETF RFC 7540: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2 (HTTP/2)\".
[12] IETF RFC 8259: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
[13] IETF RFC 7807: \"Problem Details for HTTP APIs\".
[14] 3GPP TS 33.535: \"Authentication and Key Management for Applications
(AKMA) based on 3GPP credentials in the 5G System (5GS)\".
[15] 3GPP TS 29.571: \"5G System; Common Data Types for Service Based
Interfaces; Stage 3\".
[16] 3GPP TS 29.522: \"5G System; Network Exposure Function Northbound APIs;
Stage 3\".
[17] 3GPP TS 29.503: \"5G System; Network Exposure Function Northbound APIs;
Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
No symbol applies in this release of the specification.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AAnF AKMA Anchor Function
AF Application Function
AKMA Authentication and Key Management for Applications
A-KID AKMA Key IDentifier
AUSF AUthentication Server Function
NEF Network Exposure Function
GPSI Generic Public Subscription Identifier
# 4 Services offered by the AAnF
## 4.1 Introduction
The AKMA Anchor Service is used for the AAnF to store AKMA related key
material and provide AKMA Application Key information. The AAnF offers to
other NFs the following service:
\- Naanf_AKMA.
Table 4.1-1: Service provided by AAnF
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Service | Description | Service | Operation | Example | | Name | | Operations | | Consumer(s) | | | | | Semantics | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Naanf_AKMA | This | AnchorKe | Reque | AUSF | | | service | y_Register | st/Response | | | | enables the | | | | | | NF service | | | | | | consumers | | | | | | to request | | | | | | the AAnF to | | | | | | store the | | | | | | AKMA | | | | | | related key | | | | | | material or | | | | | | get the | | | | | | AKMA | | | | | | Application | | | | | | Key | | | | | | information | | | | | | from the | | | | | | AAnF. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Applicat | Reque | AF, NEF | | | | ionKey_Get | st/Response | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Applica | Reque | AF | | | | tionKey_An | st/Response | | | | | onUser_Get | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Co | Reque | AUSF | | | | ntextRemove | st/Response | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | service | | | | | | corresponds | | | | | | to the | | | | | | Naanf_AKMA | | | | | | service as | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | 3GPP TS 33. | | | | | | 535 [14]. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | Applica | | | | | | tionKey_An | | | | | | onUser_Get | | | | | | service | | | | | | operation | | | | | | is defined | | | | | | reusing the | | | | | | Applicat | | | | | | ionKey_Get | | | | | | service | | | | | | operation. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 4.1-2 summarizes the corresponding APIs defined for this specification.
Table 4.1-2: API Descriptions
**Service Name** **Clause** **Description** **OpenAPI Specification File**
**apiName** **Annex**
* * *
Naanf_AKMA 4.2 API for Naanf_AKMA TS29535_Naanf_AKMA.yaml naanf-akma Annex A.2
Naanf_AKMA API
## 4.2 Naanf_AKMA Service
### 4.2.1 Service Description
#### 4.2.1.1 Overview
The Naanf_AKMA, as defined in 3GPP TS 33.535 [14] is provided by the AKMA
Anchor Function (AAnF).
This service:
\- allows consumer NFs to store the AKMA related key material.
\- allows consumer NFs and the AFs to request the AKMA Application Key
information for the UE.
#### 4.2.1.2 Service Architecture
The 5G System Architecture is defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]. The
Authentication and Key Management for Applications architecture is defined in
3GPP TS 33.535 [14].
The Naanf_AKMA service is part of the Naanf service-based interface exhibited
by the AAnF.
Known consumers of the Naanf_AKMA service are:
\- AUthentication Server Function (AUSF)
\- Application Function (AF)
\- Network Exposure Function (NEF)
Figure 4.2.1.2-1: Reference Architecture for the Naanf_AKMA Service; SBI
representation
Figure 4.2.1.2-2: Reference Architecture for the Naanf_AKMA Service; reference
point representation
#### 4.2.1.3 Network Functions
##### 4.2.1.3.1 AKMA Anchor Function (AAnF)
The AKMA Anchor Function (AAnF) is a functional element that stores the AKMA
Anchor Key (K~AKMA~), A-KID for AKMA service, which is received from the AUSF
after the UE completes a successful 5G primary authentication. The AAnF also
generates the key material to be used between the UE and the Application
Function (AF) and maintains the UE AKMA context as defined in 3GPP TS 33.535
[14].
##### 4.2.1.3.2 NF Service Consumers
The known NF service consumers are as follows:
The AUthentication Server Function (AUSF):
\- provides the AKMA key material of the UE to the AAnF.
The Network Exposure Function (NEF):
\- enables and authorizes the external AF accessing AKMA service and forwards
the request towards the AAnF;
\- performs the AAnF selection.
The Application Function (AF):
\- requests for AKMA Application Key from the AAnF;
\- shall be authenticated and authorized by the operator network before
receiving the K~AF~ from the AAnF;
\- performs the AAnF selection if the AF located inside the operator\'s
network.
### 4.2.2 Service Operations
#### 4.2.2.1 Introduction
Table 4.2.2.1-1: Operations of the Naanf_AKMA Service
Service operation name Description Initiated by
* * *
Naanf_AKMA_AnchorKey_Register This service operation is used by an NF to store
the AKMA related key material. AUSF Naanf_AKMA_ApplicationKey_Get This service
operation is used by an NF to request the AKMA Application Key information for
the UE NEF, AF Naanf_AKMA_ApplicationKey_AnonUser_Get This service operation
is used by an AF to request the AKMA Application Key information for the UE
when authorized AF are not expected to receive the SUPI of the UE AF
Naanf_AKMA_ContextRemove This service operation is used by an NF to delete the
AKMA related key material. AUSF
#### 4.2.2.2 Naanf_AKMA_AnchorKey_Register service operation
##### 4.2.2.2.1 General
The procedures support:
\- store the AKMA related key material by the NF service consumer to the AAnF
as described in 3GPP TS 33.535 [14];
##### 4.2.2.2.2 Store the AKMA related key material
Figure 4.2.2.2.2-1 illustrates the registration of AKMA related key material
at the AAnF.
Figure 4.2.2.2.2-1: Registration of AKMA related key material
In order to store the AKMA related key material, the NF service consumer shall
send an HTTP POST request message to the resource URI \"{apiRoot}/naanf-
akma/\/register-anchorkey\" as shown in step 1 of figure
4.2.2.2.2-1, and the AkmaKeyInfo data structure as request body.
The AkmaKeyInfo data structure shall include:
\- SUPI as \"supi\" attribute;
\- A-KID as \"aKId\" attribute; and
\- K~AKMA~ as \"kAkma\" attribute.
If the AAnF cannot successfully fulfil the received HTTP POST request due to
an internal error or an error in the HTTP POST request, the AAnF shall send an
HTTP error response as specified in clause 5.1.7.
If the AAnF determines the received HTTP POST request needs to be redirected,
the AAnF shall send an HTTP redirect response as specified in clause 6.10.9 of
3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
Upon successful reception of an HTTP POST request, the AAnF shall store the
key material information and respond to the NF service consumer with a 200 OK
status code, including the AkmaKeyInfo data structure as response body.
#### 4.2.2.3 Naanf_AKMA_ApplicationKey_Get service operation
##### 4.2.2.3.1 General
The Naanf_AKMA_ApplicationKey_Get service operation is used by an NF service
consumer to request the AKMA Application Key information for the UE.
##### 4.2.2.3.2 AKMA Application Key request
Figure 4.2.2.3.2-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer sends a
request to the AAnF to request and get the AKMA Application Key information
for the UE (as shown in 3GPP TS 33.535 [14]).
Figure 4.2.2.3.2-1: NF service consumer retrieve AKMA Application Key
information
The NF service consumer shall invoke the Naanf_AKMA_ApplicationKey_Get service
operation to retrieve the AKMA Application Key information. The NF service
consumer shall send for this purpose an HTTP POST request with
\"{apiRoot}/naanf-akma/\/retrieve-applicationkey\" as Resource
URI, as shown in step 1 of figure 4.2.2.3.2-1, and the request body containing
the AkmaAfKeyRequest data structure.
If the request corresponds to a Naanf_AKMA_ApplicationKey_AnonUser_Get
request, then the AkmaAfKeyRequest shall contain the \"anonInd\" attribute set
to \"true\".
If the AAnF determines the received HTTP POST request needs to be redirected,
the AAnF shall send an HTTP redirect response as specified in clause 6.10.9 of
3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
If the AAnF cannot successfully fulfil the received HTTP POST request due to
an internal error or an error in the HTTP POST request, the AAnF shall send an
HTTP error response as specified in clause 5.1.7.
The AAnF shall also verify the presence of the UE specific K~AKMA~ key
identified by the A-KID.
\- If K~AKMA~ is not present in the AAnF, the AAnF shall reply with an HTTP
\"403 Forbidden\" status code and the response message body including a
ProblemDetails data structure with the \"cause\" attribute set to the
\"K_AKMA_NOT_PRESENT\" application error specified in table 5.1.7.3-1.
\- If K~AKMA~ is present in the AAnF, the AAnF shall continue and process the
request as specified below.
Upon the reception of the HTTP POST request, the AAnF shall respond with an
HTTP \"200 OK\" status code and the response message body containing the
AkmaAfKeyData data structure which shall include:
\- K~AF~ as \"kaf\" attribute;
\- K~AF~ expiration time as \"expiry\" attribute; and
\- if the \"anonInd\" attribute was not present in the request or it was
present and set to \"false\", the SUPI within the \"supi\" attribute or, if
the \"AKMA_GPSI_Support\" feature is supported, either the SUPI within the
\"supi\" attribute or the GPSI within the \"gpsi\" attribute.
If the requested AKMA Application Key information for the UE does not exist,
the AAnF shall respond with \"204 No Content\".
If the NF service consumer is an NEF, and if UE identifier is required to
relay to the AF based on local policy, the NEF invokes the
Nudm_SubscriberDataManagement service defined in 3GPP TS 29.503 [17] to
translate the SUPI to a GPSI (External Id), and then invoke the AKMA API to
include the GPSI (External Id) in the response to the AF as defined in 3GPP TS
29.522 [16]. The NEF shall not send the SUPI to the AF.
#### 4.2.2.4 Naanf_AKMA_ContextRemove service operation
##### 4.2.2.4.1 General
The Naanf_AKMA_ContextRemove service operation is used by an NF service
consumer to request the AAnF to remove the AKMA related key material.
##### 4.2.2.4.2 AKMA Context removal
Figure 4.2.2.4.2-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer sends a
request to the AAnF to delete the AKMA related key material (as shown in 3GPP
TS 33.535 [14]).
Figure 4.2.2.4.2-1: NF service consumer request to remove the AKMA related key
material
The NF service consumer shall invoke the Naanf_AKMA_ContextRemove service
operation to request the AAnF to remove the AKMA related key material. The NF
service consumer shall send an HTTP POST request with \"{apiRoot}/naanf-
akma/\/remove-context\" as Resource URI, as shown in figure
4.2.2.4.2-1, step 1, to request to remove AKMA related key material according
to the value of the \"CtxRemove\" data type in the request body.
If errors occur when processing the HTTP POST request, the AAnF shall send an
HTTP error response as specified in clause 5.1.7.
If the AAnF determines the received HTTP POST request needs to be redirected,
the AAnF shall send an HTTP redirect response as specified in clause 6.10.9 of
3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
Upon the reception of the HTTP POST request, if the AKMA context (e.g. A-KID,
K~AKMA~) for the UE has been removed successfully, the AAnF shall send an HTTP
\"204 No Content\" response.
If the AKMA Context resource does not exist, the AAnF shall respond with \"404
Not Found\" and the \"cause\" attribute of the \"ProblemDetails\" data
structure set to \"AKMA_CONTEXT_NOT_FOUND\".
# 5 API Definitions
## 5.1 Naanf_AKMA Service API
### 5.1.1 Introduction
The Naanf_AKMA service shall use the Naanf_AKMA API.
The API URI of the Naanf_AKMA API shall be:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\**
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the NF service consumer towards
the NF service producer shall have the Resource URI structure defined in
clause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5], i.e.:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\/\**
with the following components:
\- The {apiRoot} shall be set as described in 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
\- The \ shall be \"naanf-akma\".
\- The \ shall be \"v1\".
\- The \ shall be set as described in clause 5.1.3
and 5.1.4.
### 5.1.2 Usage of HTTP
#### 5.1.2.1 General
HTTP/2, IETF RFC 7540 [11], shall be used as specified in clause 5 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4].
HTTP/2 shall be transported as specified in clause 5.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
The OpenAPI [6] specification of HTTP messages and content bodies for the
Naanf_AKMA API is contained in Annex A.
#### 5.1.2.2 HTTP standard headers
##### 5.1.2.2.1 General
See clause 5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] for the usage of HTTP standard headers.
##### 5.1.2.2.2 Content type
JSON, IETF RFC 8259 [12], shall be used as content type of the HTTP bodies
specified in the present specification as specified in clause 5.4 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4]. The use of the JSON format shall be signalled by the content type
\"application/json\".
\"Problem Details\" JSON object shall be used to indicate additional details
of the error in a HTTP response body and shall be signalled by the content
type \"application/problem+json\", as defined in IETF RFC 7807 [13].
#### 5.1.2.3 HTTP custom headers
The mandatory HTTP custom header fields specified in clause 5.2.3.2 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4] shall be supported, and the optional HTTP custom header fields
specified in clause 5.2.3.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] may be supported.
In this release of the specification, no specific custom headers are defined
for the Naanf_AKMA Service API.
### 5.1.3 Resources
There are no resources defined for this API in this release of the
specification.
### 5.1.4 Custom Operations without associated resources
#### 5.1.4.1 Overview
The structure of the custom operation URIs of the Naanf_AKMA API is shown in
figure 5.1.4.1-1.
Figure 5.1.4.1-1: Custom operation URI structure of the Naanf_AKMA API
Table 5.1.4.1-1 provides an overview of the custom operations and applicable
HTTP methods defined for the Naanf_AKMA API.
Table 5.1.4.1-1: Custom operations without associated resources
Operation Custom operation URI Mapped HTTP method Description
* * *
register-anchorkey /register-anchorkey POST Request to store AKMA related key
material in the AAnF. retrieve-applicationkey /retrieve-applicationkey POST
Request to retrieve AKMA Application Key information. remove-context /remove-
context POST Request to remove AKMA context in the AAnF.
#### 5.1.4.2 Operation: Register
##### 5.1.4.2.1 Description
The custom operation allows a NF service consumer to store AKMA related key
material in the AAnF.
##### 5.1.4.2.2 Operation Definition
This operation shall support the response data structures and response codes
specified in tables 5.1.4.2.2-1 and 5.1.4.2.2-2.
Table 5.1.4.2.2-1: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description AkmaKeyInfo M 1 AKMA related key material
which is requested to be stored in the AAnF
* * *
Table 5.1.4.2.2-2: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on this
resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +===============+===+=============+===============+===============+ | AkmaKeyInfo | M | 1 | 200 OK | The AKMA | | | | | | related key | | | | | | material was | | | | | | stored | | | | | | successfully. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during the | | | | | | retrieval | | | | | | notification. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during the | | | | | | retrieval | | | | | | notification. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in | | | | | | Ta | | | | | | ble 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | Red | | | | | | irectResponse | | | | | | data | | | | | | structure may | | | | | | be provided | | | | | | by an SCP | | | | | | (cf. | | | | | | cl | | | | | | ause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS 2 | | | | | | 9.500 [4]). | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 5.1.4.2.2-3: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +=================+===========+===+=============+=================+ | Location | string | M | 1 | Contains an | | | | | | alternative URI | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the end point | | | | | | of an | | | | | | alternative NF | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the | | | | | | notification is | | | | | | redirected. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the case | | | | | | where the | | | | | | notification is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | via a different | | | | | | SCP, refer to | | | | | | clause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [4]. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target NF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
Table 5.1.4.2.2-4: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +=================+===========+===+=============+=================+ | Location | string | M | 1 | Contains an | | | | | | alternative URI | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the end point | | | | | | of an | | | | | | alternative NF | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | should be | | | | | | redirected. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the case | | | | | | where the | | | | | | notification is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | via a different | | | | | | SCP, refer to | | | | | | clause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [4]. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target NF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
#### 5.1.4.3 Operation: Retrieve
##### 5.1.4.3.1 Description
The custom operation allows a NF service consumer to retrieve AKMA Application
Key information for the UE.
##### 5.1.4.3.2 Operation Definition
This operation shall support the response data structures and response codes
specified in tables 5.1.4.3.2-1 and 5.1.4.3.2-2.
Table 5.1.4.3.2-1: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description AkmaAfKeyRequest M 1 Parameters to request
to retrieve AKMA Application Key information.
* * *
Table 5.1.4.3.2-2: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on this
resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +===============+===+=============+===============+===============+ | AkmaAfKeyData | M | 1 | 200 OK | The requested | | | | | | AKMA | | | | | | Application | | | | | | Key | | | | | | information | | | | | | was returned | | | | | | successfully. | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | If the | | | | | Content | requested | | | | | | data does not | | | | | | exist, the | | | | | | AAnF shall | | | | | | respond with | | | | | | \"204 No | | | | | | Content\". | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during the | | | | | | retrieval | | | | | | notification. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 4) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during the | | | | | | retrieval | | | | | | notification. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 4) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 403 Forbidden | (NOTE 3) | | roblemDetails | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | manadatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For | | | | | | the | | | | | | \"Ak | | | | | | maAfKeyData\" | | | | | | data | | | | | | structure | | | | | | used in the | | | | | | current | | | | | | release of | | | | | | this | | | | | | s | | | | | | pecification, | | | | | | the "gpsi" | | | | | | attribute is | | | | | | not | | | | | | applicable | | | | | | and the | | | | | | \"supi\" | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | included, | | | | | | except in the | | | | | | case of the | | | | | | anonymous | | | | | | user access | | | | | | procedure | | | | | | using the | | | | | | Naa | | | | | | nf_AKMA_App | | | | | | licationKey_ | | | | | | AnonUser_Get | | | | | | service | | | | | | operation, as | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | clause 6.2.2 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS 3 | | | | | | 3.535 [14]. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | Failure cases | | | | | | are described | | | | | | in | | | | | | c | | | | | | lause 5.1.7.3 | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The | | | | | | Red | | | | | | irectResponse | | | | | | data | | | | | | structure may | | | | | | be provided | | | | | | by an SCP | | | | | | (cf. | | | | | | cl | | | | | | ause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS 2 | | | | | | 9.500 [4]). | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 5.1.4.3.2-3: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +=================+===========+===+=============+=================+ | Location | string | M | 1 | Contains an | | | | | | alternative URI | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the end point | | | | | | of an | | | | | | alternative NF | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | should be | | | | | | redirected. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the case | | | | | | where the | | | | | | notification is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | via a different | | | | | | SCP, refer to | | | | | | clause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [4]. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target NF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
Table 5.1.4.3.2-4: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +=================+===========+===+=============+=================+ | Location | string | M | 1 | Contains an | | | | | | alternative URI | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the end point | | | | | | of an | | | | | | alternative NF | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | should be | | | | | | redirected. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the case | | | | | | where the | | | | | | notification is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | via a different | | | | | | SCP, refer to | | | | | | clause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [4]. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target NF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
#### 5.1.4.4 Operation: Remove
##### 5.1.4.4.1 Description
The custom operation allows a NF service consumer to delete the AKMA context
for the UE.
##### 5.1.4.4.2 Operation Definition
This operation shall support the response data structures and response codes
specified in tables 5.1.4.4.2-1 and 5.1.4.4.2-2.
Table 5.1.4.4.2-1: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description CtxRemove M 1 Parameters to request to
delete the AKMA context for the UE.
* * *
Table 5.1.4.4.2-2: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on this
resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | Successful | | | | | Content | case: The | | | | | | AKMA context | | | | | | matching the | | | | | | \"CtxRemove\" | | | | | | in the | | | | | | request body | | | | | | was deleted, | | | | | | the AAnF | | | | | | shall respond | | | | | | with \"204 No | | | | | | Content\". | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during remove | | | | | | procedure. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located in an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | AAnF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during remove | | | | | | procedure. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located in an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | AAnF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 404 Not Found | (NOTE 2) | | roblemDetails | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | manadatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Failure cases | | | | | | are described | | | | | | in | | | | | | c | | | | | | lause 5.1.7.3 | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 5.1.4.4.2-3: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location String M 1 An alternative
URI of the resource located in an alternative AAnF (service) instance. 3gpp-
Sbi-Target-Nf-Id String O 0..1 Identifier of the target AAnF (service)
instance towards which the request is redirected.
* * *
Table 5.1.4.4.2-4: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 An alternative
URI of the resource located in an alternative AAnF (service) instance. 3gpp-
Sbi-Target-Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the target AAnF (service)
instance towards which the request is redirected.
* * *
### 5.1.5 Notifications
Notifications are not applicable to this API.
### 5.1.6 Data Model
#### 5.1.6.1 General
This clause specifies the application data model supported by the Naanf_AKMA
API.
Table 5.1.6.1-1 specifies the data types defined for the Naanf_AKMA service
based interface protocol.
Table 5.1.6.1-1: Naanf_AKMA specific Data Types
Data type Clause defined Description Applicability
* * *
AkmaKeyInfo 5.1.6.2.2 AKMA related key material.  
CtxRemove 5.1.6.2.3 Indicate the AKMA context to be remove.
Table 5.1.6.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the Naanf_AKMA service based
interface protocol from other specifications, including a reference to their
respective specifications and when needed, a short description of their use
within the Naanf_AKMA service based interface.
Table 5.1.6.1-2: Naanf_AKMA re-used Data Types
Data type Reference Comments Applicability
* * *
AKId 3GPP TS 29.522 [16]  
AkmaAfKeyData 3GPP TS 29.522 [16] Parameters to present AKMA Application Key
information.  
AkmaAfKeyRequest 3GPP TS 29.522 [16] Parameters to request to retrieve AKMA
Application Key information.  
RedirectResponse 3GPP TS 29.571 [15] Contains redirection related information.  
Supi 3GPP TS 29.571 [15] Represents the SUPI.  
Gpsi 3GPP TS 29.571 [15] Represents the GPSI.  
SupportedFeatures 3GPP TS 29.571 [15] Used to negotiate the applicability of
the optional features.
#### 5.1.6.2 Structured data types
##### 5.1.6.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines the structures to be used in resource representations.
##### 5.1.6.2.2 Type: AkmaKeyInfo
Table 5.1.6.2.2-1: Definition of type AkmaKeyInfo
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +===========+===========+===+===========+===========+===========+ | supi | Supi | C | 0..1 | SUPI of | | | | | | | the UE. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | aKId | AKId | M | 1 | A-KID | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | kAkma | string | M | 1 | K~AKMA~ | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | gpsi | Gpsi | C | 0..1 | GPSI of | A | | | | | | the UE. | KMA_GPSI | | | | | | | _Support | | | | | | (NOTE) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | suppFeat | Supporte | O | 0..1 | Indicates | | | | dFeatures | | | the list | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | Supported | | | | | | | features | | | | | | | used as | | | | | | | described | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | clau | | | | | | | se 5.1.8. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | | When the | | | | | | | \"AKM | | | | | | | A_GPSI_ | | | | | | | Support\" | | | | | | | feature | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | upported, | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | presence | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | \"supi\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | \"gpsi\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | mutually | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | xclusive. | | | | | | | When the | | | | | | | \"AKM | | | | | | | A_GPSI_ | | | | | | | Support\" | | | | | | | feature | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | upported, | | | | | | | only the | | | | | | | \"supi\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 5.1.6.2.3 Type: CtxRemove
Table 5.1.6.2.3-1: Definition of type CtxRemove
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
supi Supi C 0..1 SUPI of UE  
NOTE: In current release of specification, only \"supi\" can be used to
indicate the AKMA context to be remove. The \"supi\" attribute shall be
included.
#### 5.1.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations
##### 5.1.6.3.1 Introduction
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced
from data structures defined in the previous clauses.
##### 5.1.6.3.2 Simple data types
None in this release of the specification.
#### 5.1.6.4 Data types describing alternative data types or combinations of
data types
None in this release of the specification.
#### 5.1.6.5 Binary data
None in this release of the specification.
### 5.1.7 Error Handling
#### 5.1.7.1 General
For the Naanf_AKMA API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as specified
in clause 4.8 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]. Protocol errors and application errors
specified in table 5.2.7.2-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] shall be supported for an
HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes are specified as mandatory
for that HTTP method in table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the
Naanf_AKMA API.
#### 5.1.7.2 Protocol Errors
No specific procedures for the Naanf_AKMA service are specified.
#### 5.1.7.3 Application Errors
The application errors defined for the Naanf_AKMA service are listed in Table
5.1.7.3-1.
Table 5.1.7.3-1: Application errors
Application Error HTTP status code Description
* * *
K_AKMA_NOT_PRESENT 403 Forbidden Indicates that the K~AKMA~ identified by the
A-KID provided in the AKMA Application Key retrieval request body is not
present at the AAnF. AKMA_CONTEXT_NOT_FOUND 404 Not Found Indicates that the
AKMA context to be deleted indicated by the \"CtxRemove\" Data type in the
request body is not found.
### 5.1.8 Feature negotiation
The optional features in table 5.1.8-1 are defined for the Naanf_AKMA API.
They shall be negotiated using the extensibility mechanism defined in clause
6.6 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
Table 5.1.8-1: Supported Features
Feature number Feature Name Description
* * *
1 AKMA_GPSI_Support This feature indicates the support of sending the GPSI as
an alternative UE ID to an internal AF based on local policy.
### 5.1.9 Security
As indicated in 3GPP TS 33.501 [8] and 3GPP TS 29.500 [4], the access to the
Naanf_AKMA API may be authorized by means of the OAuth2 protocol (see IETF RFC
6749 [9]), based on local configuration, using the \"Client Credentials\"
authorization grant, where the NRF (see 3GPP TS 29.510 [10]) plays the role of
the authorization server.
If OAuth2 is used, an NF Service Consumer, prior to consuming services offered
by the Naanf_AKMA API, shall obtain a \"token\" from the authorization server,
by invoking the Access Token Request service, as described in 3GPP TS 29.510
[10], clause 5.4.2.2.
NOTE: When multiple NRFs are deployed in a network, the NRF used as
authorization server is the same NRF that the NF Service Consumer used for
discovering the Naanf_AKMA service.
The Naanf_AKMA API defines the following scopes for OAuth2 authorization as
described in clause 4.10 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
Table 5.1.9-1: OAuth2 scopes defined in Naanf_AKMA API
Scope Description
* * *
\"naanf-akma\" Access to the Naanf_AKMA API \"naanf-akma:anchorkey\" Access to
service operations applying to store and remove the AKMA related key material.
\"naanf-akma:applicationkeyget\" Access to service operations applying to
request the AKMA Application Key information for the UE. \"naanf-
akma:applicationkeyget: supi-access\" Access to the Naanf_AKMA API to enable
the returning of SUPI in the AKMA Application Key information for the UE.
###### ## Annex A (normative): OpenAPI specification
# A.1 General
This Annex specifies the formal definition of the API(s) defined in the
present specification. It consists of OpenAPI 3.0.0 specifications in YAML
format.
This Annex takes precedence when being discrepant to other parts of the
specification with respect to the encoding of information elements and methods
within the API(s).
NOTE: The semantics and procedures, as well as conditions, e.g. for the
applicability and allowed combinations of attributes or values, not expressed
in the OpenAPI definitions but defined in other parts of the specification
also apply.
Informative copies of the OpenAPI specification files contained in this 3GPP
Technical Specification are available on a Git-based repository that uses the
GitLab software version control system (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [5] clause 5.3.1
and 3GPP TR 21.900 [7] clause 5B).
# A.2 Naanf_AKMA API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
title: 3gpp-akma
version: 1.1.0-alpha.4
description: \|
API for Naanf_AKMA.
© 2023, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.535 V18.3.0; 5G System; AKMA Anchor Services.
url: \'https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.535/\'
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- naanf-akma
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/naanf-akma/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in clause 4.4 of 3GPP TS 29.501.
paths:
/register-anchorkey:
post:
summary: Store AKMA related key material.
operationId: RegisterAKMAKey
tags:
\- Register the AKMA related key material
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- naanf-akma
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- naanf-akma
\- naanf-akma:anchorkey
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AkmaKeyInfo\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: The requested information was returned successfully.
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AkmaKeyInfo\'
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'502\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/502\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/retrieve-applicationkey:
post:
summary: Request to retrieve AKMA Application Key information.
operationId: GetAKMAAPPKeyMaterial
tags:
\- Retrieve the AKMA Application key material (Collection)
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- naanf-akma
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- naanf-akma
\- naanf-akma:applicationkeyget
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29522_AKMA.yaml#/components/schemas/AkmaAfKeyRequest\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: The requested information was returned successfully.
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29522_AKMA.yaml#/components/schemas/AkmaAfKeyData\'
\'204\':
description: No Content (The requested AKMA Application material does not
exist.)
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'502\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/502\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/remove-context:
post:
summary: Request to remove the AKMA related key material.
operationId: RemoveContext
tags:
\- Remove the AKMA Application key material (deletion)
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- naanf-akma
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- naanf-akma
\- naanf-akma:anchorkey
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/CtxRemove\'
responses:
\'204\':
description: No Content (The AKMA context for the UE has been removed
successfully.)
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'502\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/502\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{nrfApiRoot}/oauth2/token\'
scopes:
naanf_akma: Access to the Naanf_AKMA API
naanf_akma:anchorkey: >
Access to service operations applying to store or remove the AKMA related key
material.
naanf_akma:applicationkeyget: >
Access to service operations applying to request the AKMA Application Key
information
for the UE.
naanf-akma:applicationkeyget:supi-access: >
Return SUPI in the AKMA Application Key information for the UE.
schemas:
AkmaKeyInfo:
description: Represents AKMA related key material.
type: object
properties:
suppFeat:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
supi:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Supi\'
gpsi:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Gpsi\'
aKId:
\$ref: \'TS29522_AKMA.yaml#/components/schemas/AKId\'
kAkma:
type: string
required:
\- aKId
\- kAkma
oneOf:
\- required: [supi]
\- required: [gpsi]
CtxRemove:
description: >
Parameters to request to delete the AKMA context for the UE, the \"supi\"
attribute shall be
included.
type: object
properties:
supi:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Supi\'
#