# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 3 protocol and data model for the
Nspaf Service Based Interface. It provides stage 3 protocol definitions and
message flows, and specifies the API for each service offered by the SP-AF.
The 5G System stage 2 architecture and procedures are specified in 3GPP TS
23.501 [2] and 3GPP TS 23.502 [3].
The Technical Realization of the Service Based Architecture and the Principles
and Guidelines for Services Definition are specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] and
3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.501: \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services
Definition; Stage 3\".
[6] OpenAPI: \"OpenAPI Specification Version 3.0.0\",
https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.0..
[7] 3GPP TR 21.900: \"Technical Specification Group working methods\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[9] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"5G System; Network Function Repository Services; Stage
3\".
[11] IETF RFC 7540: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2 (HTTP/2)\".
[12] IETF RFC 8259: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
[13] IETF RFC 7807: \"Problem Details for HTTP APIs\".
[14] 3GPP TS 29.503: \"Unified Data Management Services\"; Stage 3.
[15] 3GPP TS 29.571: \"5G System; Common Data Types for Service Based
Interfaces Stage 3\".
[16] 3GPP TS 31.115: \"Secured packet structure for (Universal) Subscriber
Identity Module (U)SIM Toolkit applications\".
[17] 3GPP TS 29.509: \"Authentication Server Services; Stage 3\".
[18] 3GPP TS 23.040: \"Technical realization of the Short Message Service
(SMS)\"
[19] 3GPP TS 24.501: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for 5G System (5GS);
Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
Void.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
OTA Over The Air
SOR-AF Steering Of Roaming Application Function
SP-AF Secured Packet Application Function
UDM Unified Data Management
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 Introduction
Within the 5GC, the SP-AF offers services to the UDM and to the SOR-AF via the
Nspaf service based interface.
The UDM or SOR-AF shall make use of the SP-AF services when it needs to
protect UE parameters for which the final consumer is the USIM (see 3GPP TS
33.501 [8] clause 6.15.2.1).
Figure 4.1-1 provides the reference model with focus on the SP-AF.
NOTE: The generation of the secured packet and the definition of the storage
and handling of OTA keys or other sensitive data are out of scope of this
document. For more details, refer to 3GPP TS 23.040 [18] and 3GPP TS 31.115
[16].
Figure 4.1-1: Reference model -- SP-AF
# 5 Services offered by the SP-AF
## 5.1 Introduction
The SP-AF offers the following services via the Nspaf interface:
\- Nspaf_SecuredPacket Service
Table 5.1-1 summarizes the corresponding APIs defined for this specification.
Table 5.1-1: API Descriptions
Service Name Clause Description OpenAPI Specification File apiName **Annex**
* * *
Nspaf_SecuredPacket 6.1 Nspaf Secured Packet Service
TS29544_Nspaf_SecuredPacket.yaml nspaf-secured-packet A.2
## 5.2 Nspaf_SecuredPacket Service
### 5.2.1 Service Description
The Nspaf_SecuredPacket Service may be consumed by the NF consumer (e.g. UDM
or SOR-AF) when it has detected that a UICC configuration parameter (e.g.
Routing ID data or Steering of Roaming information) needs to be updated, and
the new value is not available in secured packet format.
For the list of service operations see clause 5.2.2.1
### 5.2.2 Service Operations
#### 5.2.2.1 Introduction
For the Nspaf_SecuredPacket service the following service operations are
defined:
\- Provide
The Nspaf_SecuredPacket Service is used by Consumer NFs (e.g. UDM or SOR-AF)
to request the SP-AF to provide a secured packet that contains an UICC
configuration parameter as sent in the request by means of the Provide service
operation
#### 5.2.2.2 Provide
##### 5.2.2.2.1 General
This service operation is used by the NF Service Consumer (e.g. UDM or SOR-AF)
to request construction of a secured packet that contains the provided UICC
configuration information (e.g. Routing Indicator or Steering of Roaming
information).
The following procedures using the Provide service operation are supported:
\- Secured Packet Retrieval
##### 5.2.2.2.2 Secured Packet Retrieval
Figure 5.2.2.2.2-1 shows a scenario where the NF consumer (e.g. UDM or SOR-AF)
sends a request to the SP-AF to provide a secured packet.
The request contains the UE\'s identity (/{supi}) and the UICC configuration
parameter.
Figure 5.2.2.2.2-1: NF consumer requests the SP-AF to provide a secured packet
1\. The NF consumer sends a POST request (custom method: provide-secured-
packet) to the resource representing the SUPI.
2a. On success, the SP-AF responds with \"200 OK\", containing the requested
SecuredPacket.
2b. If the resource does not exist (the supi is unknown in the SP-AF), the SP-
AF returns the HTTP status code \"404 Not Found\", and additional error
information should be included in the response body (in \"ProblemDetails\"
element).
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the POST response body.
# 6 API Definitions
## 6.1 Nspaf_SecuredPacket Service API
### 6.1.1 Introduction
The Nspaf_SecuredPacket service shall use the Nspaf_SecuredPacket API.
The request URI used in HTTP request from the NF service consumer towards the
NF service producer shall have the structure defined in clause 4.4.1 of 3GPP
TS 29.501 [5], i.e.:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\/\**
with the following components:
\- The {apiRoot} shall be set as described in 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
\- The \ shall be \"nspaf-secured-packet\".
\- The \ shall be \"v1\".
\- The \ shall be set as described in clause
6.1.3.
### 6.1.2 Usage of HTTP
#### 6.1.2.1 General
HTTP/2, IETF RFC 7540 [11], shall be used as specified in clause 5 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4].
HTTP/2 shall be transported as specified in clause 5.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
The OpenAPI [6] specification of HTTP messages and content bodies for the
Nspaf_SecuredPacket API is contained in Annex A.
#### 6.1.2.2 HTTP standard headers
##### 6.1.2.2.1 General
See clause 5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] for the usage of HTTP standard headers.
##### 6.1.2.2.2 Content type
JSON, IETF RFC 8259 [12], shall be used as content type of the HTTP bodies
specified in the present specification as specified in clause 5.4 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4]. The use of the JSON format shall be signalled by the content type
\"application/json\".
\"Problem Details\" JSON object shall be used to indicate additional details
of the error in a HTTP response body and shall be signalled by the content
type \"application/problem+json\", as defined in IETF RFC 7807 [13].
#### 6.1.2.3 HTTP custom headers
The mandatory HTTP custom header fields specified in clause 5.2.3.2 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4] shall be applicable.
### 6.1.3 Resources
#### 6.1.3.1 Overview
Figure 6.1.3.1-1: Resource URI structure of the nspaf-secured-packet API
Table 6.1.3.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 6.1.3.1-1: Resources and methods overview
Resource name Resource URI HTTP method or custom operation Description
* * *
SecuredPacket (Custom operation) /{supi}/provide-secured-packet Provide-
secured-packet (POST) The SP-AF generates a secured packet containing the
presented UICC configuration parameter
#### 6.1.3.2 Resource: SecuredPacket
##### 6.1.3.2.1 Description
This resource represents the information that is needed to construct secured
packets for the SUPI.
##### 6.1.3.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nspaf-secured-packet/v1/{supi}/provide-secured-
packet**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.2.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Definition
* * *
apiRoot See clause 6.1.1
supi Represents the Subscription Permanent Identifier (see 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]
clause 5.9.2)\ pattern: \"\^(imsi-[0-9]{5,15}\|nai-.+\|.+)\$\"
* * *
##### 6.1.3.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
No Standard Methods are supported for this resource.
##### 6.1.3.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
##### 6.1.3.2.4.1 Overview {#overview-2 .H6}
Table 6.1.3.2.4.1-1: Custom operations
Custom operaration URI Mapped HTTP method Description
* * *
/provide-secured-packet POST The SP-AF generates a secured packet for the SUPI
that contains the presented UICC configuration parameter.
##### 6.1.3.2.4.2 Operation: provide-secured-packet {#operation-provide-
secured-packet .H6}
###### # 6.1.3.2.4.2.1 Description {#description-1 .list-paragraph}
This custom operation is used by the NF service consumer (e.g. UDM) to request
a secured packet for the SUPI containing the presented UICC configuration
parameter. The returned secured packet shall be constructed as an SMS-Deliver
as specified in 3GPP TS 23.040 [18] and protected as specified in 3GPP TS
31.115 [16].
###### # 6.1.3.2.4.2.2 Operation Definition {#operation-definition .list-
paragraph}
This operation shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.2.4.2.2-1 and the response data structure and response codes specified
in table 6.1.3.2.4.2.2-2.
Table 6.1.3.2.4.2.2-1: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description UiccConfigurationParameter M 1 Contains
the parameter that is to be updated in the UICC
* * *
Table 6.1.3.2.4.2.2-2: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | SecuredPacket | M | 1 | 200 OK | Upon success, | | | | | | a response | | | | | | body | | | | | | containing | | | | | | the generated | | | | | | secured | | | | | | packet shall | | | | | | be returned. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 404 Not Found | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | | attribute may | | | | | | be used to | | | | | | convey the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | error: | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | USE | | | | | | R_NOT_FOUND | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | manadatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
### 6.1.4 Custom Operations without associated resources
In this release of this specification, no custom operations without associated
resources are defined for the Nspaf_SecuredPacket Service.
### 6.1.5 Notifications
In this release of this specification, no notifications are defined for the
Nspaf_SecuredPacket Service.
### 6.1.6 Data Model
#### 6.1.6.1 General
This clause specifies the application data model supported by the API.
Table 6.1.6.1-1 specifies the data types defined for the Nspaf service based
interface protocol.
Table 6.1.6.1-1: Nspaf specific Data Types
Data type Clause defined Description Applicability
* * *
UiccConfigurationParameter 6.1.6.2.2 UICC Configuration Parameters  
RoutingId 6.1.6.3.2 Routing ID  
ExtendedSteeringContainer 6.1.6.2.3 Extended Steering Container (including the
contents of Steering Container and SOR-CMCI)
Table 6.1.6.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the Nspaf service based
interface protocol from other specifications, including a reference to their
respective specifications and when needed, a short description of their use
within the N~spaf~ service based interface.
Table 6.1.6.1-2: Nspaf re-used Data Types
Data type Reference Comments Applicability
* * *
SecuredPacket 3GPP TS 29.503 [14] Secured Packet  
ProblemDetails 3GPP TS 29.571 [15]  
SteeringInfo 3GPP TS 29.509 [17] Steering Information  
SorCmci 3GPP TS 29.503 [14] Contains SOR-CMCI as defined in 3GPP TS 24.501
[19]
#### 6.1.6.2 Structured data types
##### 6.1.6.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines the structures to be used in resource representations.
##### 6.1.6.2.2 Type: UiccConfigurationParameter
Table 6.1.6.2.2-1: Definition of type UiccConfigurationParameter
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
routingId RoutingId C 0..1 The Routing Id that needs to be updated in the
USIM.  
steeringContainer array(SteeringInfo) C 1..N List of PLMN/AccessTechnologies
combinations that need to be updated in the USIM.  
extendedSteeringContainer ExtendedSteeringContainer C 0..1 Extended Steering
Container that includes list of PLMN/AccessTechnologies combinations with the
SOR-CMCI that need to be updated in the USIM  
Note: Exactly one attribute shall be present
##### 6.1.6.2.3 Type: ExtendedSteeringContainer
Table 6.1.6.2.3-1: Definition of type ExtendedSteeringContainer
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +===========+===========+===+===========+===========+===========+ | steering | a | C | 1..N | List of | | | Container | rray(Stee | | | PLMN/ | | | | ringInfo) | | | AccessTec | | | | | | | hnologies | | | | | | | com | | | | | | | binations | | | | | | | that need | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | updated | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | USIM. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | sorCmci | SorCmci | C | 0..1 | When | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | provides | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | SOR-CMCI | | | | | | | values as | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | 3GP | | | | | | | P TS 24.5 | | | | | | | 01 [19] | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | storeSo | boolean | C | 0..1 | When | | | rCmciInMe | | | | present, | | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | | \"Store | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | SOR-CMCI | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | ME\", | | | | | | | i.e. | | | | | | | whether | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | instruct | | | | | | | UE to | | | | | | | store | | | | | | | SOR-CMCI | | | | | | | in the ME | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in 3GPP | | | | | | | TS 23.122 | | | | | | | [14] | | | | | | | and 3GPP | | | | | | | TS 24.501 | | | | | | | [27]. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - True: | | | | | | | Indicates | | | | | | | to store | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | SOR-CMCI | | | | | | | in the ME | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - False | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | absent: | | | | | | | Indicates | | | | | | | storing | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | SOR-CMCI | | | | | | | in the ME | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | required | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | NOTE: At | | | | | | | least one | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present. | | | | | | | If no | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | dditional | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttributes | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | steering | | | | | | | Container | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | included, | | | | | | | then use | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | steering | | | | | | | Container | | | | | | | can be | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | onsidered | | | | | | | instead | | | | | | | of using | | | | | | | Extended | | | | | | | SteeringC | | | | | | | ontainer. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
#### 6.1.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations
##### 6.1.6.3.1 Introduction
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced
from data structures defined in the previous clauses.
##### 6.1.6.3.2 Simple data types
The simple data types defined in table 6.1.6.3.2-1 shall be supported.
Table 6.1.6.3.2-1: Simple data types
* * *
Type Name Type Definition Description Applicability RoutingId string Pattern:
\"\^[0-9]{1,4}\$\"
* * *
### 6.1.7 Error Handling
#### 6.1.7.1 General
For the Nspaf_SecuredPacket API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as
specified in clause 4.8 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]. Protocol errors and application
errors specified in table 5.2.7.2-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] shall be supported
for an HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes are specified as
mandatory for that HTTP method in table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the
Nspaf_SecuredPacket API.
#### 6.1.7.2 Protocol Errors
No specific procedures for the Nspaf_SecuredPacket service are specified.
#### 6.1.7.3 Application Errors
The application errors defined for the Nspaf_SecuredPacket service are listed
in Table 6.1.7.3-1.
Table 6.1.7.3-1: Application errors
Application Error HTTP status code Description
* * *
USER_NOT_FOUND 404 Not Found The user does not exist
### 6.1.8 Feature negotiation
The optional features in table 6.1.8-1 are defined for the Nspaf_SecuredPacket
API. They shall be negotiated using the extensibility mechanism defined in
clause 6.6 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
Table 6.1.8-1: Supported Features
Feature number Feature Name Description
* * *
### 6.1.9 Security
As indicated in 3GPP TS 33.501 [8] and 3GPP TS 29.500 [4], the access to the
Nspaf_SecuredPacket API may be authorized by means of the OAuth2 protocol (see
IETF RFC 6749 [9]), based on local configuration, using the \"Client
Credentials\" authorization grant, where the NRF (see 3GPP TS 29.510 [10])
plays the role of the authorization server.
If OAuth2 is used, an NF Service Consumer, prior to consuming services offered
by the Nspaf_SecuredPacket API, shall obtain a \"token\" from the
authorization server, by invoking the Access Token Request service, as
described in 3GPP TS 29.510 [10], clause 5.4.2.2.
NOTE: When multiple NRFs are deployed in a network, the NRF used as
authorization server is the same NRF that the NF Service Consumer used for
discovering the Nspaf_SecuredPacket service.
The Nspaf_SecuredPacket API defines a single scope \"nspaf-secured-packet\"
for the entire service, and it does not define any additional scopes at
resource or operation level.
###### ## Annex A (normative): OpenAPI specification
# A.1 General
This Annex specifies the formal definition of the API(s) defined in the
present specification. It consists of OpenAPI 3.0.0 specifications in YAML
format.
This Annex takes precedence when being discrepant to other parts of the
specification with respect to the encoding of information elements and methods
within the API(s).
NOTE: The semantics and procedures, as well as conditions, e.g. for the
applicability and allowed combinations of attributes or values, not expressed
in the OpenAPI definitions but defined in other parts of the specification
also apply.
Informative copies of the OpenAPI specification files contained in this 3GPP
Technical Specification are available on a Git-based repository, that uses the
GitLab software version control system (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [5] clause 5.3.1
and 3GPP TR 21.900 [7] clause 5B).
# A.2 Nspaf_SecuredPacket API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
title: \'Nspaf_SecuredPacket\'
version: \'1.2.0-alpha.1\'
description: \|
Nspaf Secured Packet Service.
© 2022, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.544, SP-AF Services, version V18.0.0
url: https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.544/
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/nspaf-secured-packet/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in clause 4.4 of 3GPP TS 29.501
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- nspaf-secured-packet
paths:
/{supi}/provide-secured-packet:
post:
summary: request generation of a secured packet
operationId: ProvideSecuredPacket
tags:
\- SecuredPacket Generation (Custom Operation)
parameters:
\- name: supi
in: path
description: SUPI of the user
required: true
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Supi\'
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UiccConfigurationParameter\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: Success
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29503_Nudm_SDM.yaml#/components/schemas/SecuredPacket\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'502\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/502\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{nrfApiRoot}/oauth2/token\'
scopes:
nspaf-secured-packet: Access to the nspaf-secured-packet API
schemas:
# COMPLEX TYPES:
UiccConfigurationParameter:
description: Represents UICC Configuration Parameters.
type: object
oneOf:
\- required: [routingId ]
\- required: [steeringContainer ]
\- required: [extendedSteeringContainer ]
properties:
routingId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/RoutingId\'
steeringContainer:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29509_Nausf_SoRProtection.yaml#/components/schemas/SteeringInfo\'
minItems: 1
extendedSteeringContainer:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ExtendedSteeringContainer\'
ExtendedSteeringContainer:
description: Represents Extended Steering Containers.
type: object
properties:
steeringContainer:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29509_Nausf_SoRProtection.yaml#/components/schemas/SteeringInfo\'
minItems: 1
sorCmci:
\$ref: \'TS29503_Nudm_SDM.yaml#/components/schemas/SorCmci\'
storeSorCmciInMe:
type: boolean
# SIMPLE TYPES:
RoutingId:
description: Represents a routing indicator.
type: string
pattern: \'\^[0-9]{1,4}\$\'
# ENUMS:
#