# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 3 protocol and data model for the
Nmnpf Service Based Interface. It provides stage 3 protocol definitions and
message flows, and specifies the API for each service offered by the MNPF.
The 5G System stage 2 architecture and procedures are specified in 3GPP TS
23.501 [2] and 3GPP TS 23.502 [3].
The Technical Realization of the Service Based Architecture and the Principles
and Guidelines for Services Definition are specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] and
3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
Stage 2 requirements for the Nmnpf services are specified in 3GPP TS 23.540
[14].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.501: \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services
Definition; Stage 3\".
[6] OpenAPI: \"OpenAPI Specification Version 3.0.0\",
[https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.0]{.underline}.
[7] 3GPP TR 21.900: \"Technical Specification Group working methods\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[9] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"5G System; Network Function Repository Services; Stage
3\".
[11] IETF RFC 7540: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2 (HTTP/2)\".
[12] IETF RFC 8259: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
[13] IETF RFC 7807: \"Problem Details for HTTP APIs\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.540: \" Technical realization of Service Based Short Message
Service; Stage 2\".
[15] 3GPP TS 29.571: \"5G System; Common Data Types for Service Based
Interfaces Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Nmnpf:** Service-based interface exhibited by the MNPF server
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
MNPF Mobile Number Portability Function
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 Introduction
Within the 5GC, the MNPF offers services to the SMS-GMSC, NRF and SCP via the
Nmnpf service based interface (see 3GPP TS 23.501 [2], 3GPP TS 23.502 [3], and
3GPP TS 23.540 [14]).
Figure 4.1-1 provides the reference model (in service based interface
representation and in reference point representation), with focus on the MNPF.
Figure 4.1-1: Reference model -- MNPF
The functionalities supported by the MNPF are listed in clause 6.7 of 3GPP TS
23.540 [14].
# 5 Services offered by the MNPF
## 5.1 Introduction
The MNPF offers the following services via the Nmnpf interface:
\- Nmnpf_NPStatus Service
Table 5.1-1 summarizes the corresponding APIs defined for this specification.
Table 5.1-1: API Descriptions
Service Name Clause Description OpenAPI Specification File apiName **Annex**
* * *
Nmnpf_NPStatus 6.1 MNPF Number portability Status Service
TS29578_Nmnpf_NPStatus.yaml nmnpf-npstatus A.2
## 5.2 Nmnpf_NPStatus Service
### 5.2.1 Service Description
See 3GPP TS 23.540 [14] clause 6.7.1.
### 5.2.2 Service Operations
#### 5.2.2.1 Introduction
For the Nmnpf_NPStatus service the following service operations are defined:
\- Get
The Nmnpf_NPStatus Service is used by Consumer NFs (SMS-GMSC, NRF, SCP) to
retrieve the UE\'s subscription network by means of the Get service operation.
#### 5.2.2.2 Get
##### 5.2.2.2.1 General
This clause provides a general description of the Get service operation.
##### 5.2.2.2.2 MNPF Status information retrieval
Figure 5.2.2.2.2-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer (e.g. SMS-
GMSC, NRF, SCP) sends a request to the MNPF to receive the UE\'s Subscription
Network (see also clause 5.1.7.2, clause 5.1.7.3 and clause 5.1.7.4 of 3GPP TS
23.540 [14]. The request contains the UE\'s identity (/{gpsi}).
Figure 5.2.2.2.2-1: Requesting a UE\'s NP statusI
1\. The NF service consumer (e.g. SMS-GMSC, NRF, SCP) sends a GET request to
the resource representing the UE\'s number portability status.
2a. On success, the MNPF responds with \"200 OK\" with the message body
containing the UE\'s Number Portability Status Information.
2b. If there is no valid information for the UE, HTTP status code \"404 Not
Found\" shall be returned including additional error information in the
response body (in the \"ProblemDetails\" element).
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the GET response body.
# 6 API Definitions
## 6.1 Nmnpf_NPStatus Service API
### 6.1.1 Introduction
The Nmnpf_NPStatus service shall use the Nmnpf_NPStatus API.
The API URI of the Nmnpf_NPStatus API shall be:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\**
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the NF service consumer towards
the NF service producer shall have the Resource URI structure defined in
clause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5], i.e.:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\/\**
with the following components:
\- The {apiRoot} shall be set as described in 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
\- The \ shall be \"nmnpf-npstatus\".
\- The \ shall be \"v1\".
\- The \ shall be set as described in clause
6.1.3.
### 6.1.2 Usage of HTTP
#### 6.1.2.1 General
HTTP/2, IETF RFC 7540 [11], shall be used as specified in clause 5 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4].
HTTP/2 shall be transported as specified in clause 5.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
The OpenAPI [6] specification of HTTP messages and content bodies for the
Nmnpf_NPStatus API is contained in Annex A.
#### 6.1.2.2 HTTP standard headers
##### 6.1.2.2.1 General
See clause 5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] for the usage of HTTP standard headers.
##### 6.1.2.2.2 Content type
JSON, IETF RFC 8259 [12], shall be used as content type of the HTTP bodies
specified in the present specification as specified in clause 5.4 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4]. The use of the JSON format shall be signalled by the content type
\"application/json\".
\"Problem Details\" JSON object shall be used to indicate additional details
of the error in a HTTP response body and shall be signalled by the content
type \"application/problem+json\", as defined in IETF RFC 7807 [13].
#### 6.1.2.3 HTTP custom headers
The mandatory HTTP custom header fields specified in clause 5.2.3.2 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4] shall be supported, and the optional HTTP custom header fields
specified in clause 5.2.3.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] may be supported.
### 6.1.3 Resources
#### 6.1.3.1 Overview
This clause describes the structure for the Resource URIs and the resources
and methods used for the service.
Figure 6.1.3.1-1 depicts the resource URIs structure for the Nmnpf_NPStatus
API.
Figure 6.1.3.1-1: Resource URI structure of the Nmnpf_NPStatus API
Table 6.1.3.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 6.1.3.1-1: Resources and methods overview
Resource purpose/name Resource URI (relative path after API URI) HTTP method
or custom operation Description (service operation)
* * *
NPstatus /{gpsi} GET Retrieve the NP status of the GPSI
#### 6.1.3.2 Resource: NPstatus
##### 6.1.3.2.1 Description
This resource represents the Number Portability status for a GPSI.
##### 6.1.3.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nmnpf-npstatus/\ /{gpsi}**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.2.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
Name Data type Definition
* * *
apiRoot string See clause 6.1.1 gpsi Gpsi See 3GPP TS 29.571 [15]; the only
valid format is MSISDN
##### 6.1.3.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
##### 6.1.3.2.3.1 GET {#get-1 .H6}
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.2.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.2.3.1-3.
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NpStatusInfo | M | 1 | 200 OK | Upon success, | | | | | | the response | | | | | | body contains | | | | | | the Number | | | | | | Portability | | | | | | Status | | | | | | information. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 404 Not Found | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | | attribute may | | | | | | be used to | | | | | | indicate one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | GPS | | | | | | I_NOT_FOUND | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the GET | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
### 6.1.4 Custom Operations without associated resources
None.
### 6.1.5 Notifications
None.
### 6.1.6 Data Model
#### 6.1.6.1 General
This clause specifies the application data model supported by the API.
Table 6.1.6.1-1 specifies the data types defined for the Nmnpf_NPStatus
service based interface protocol.
Table 6.1.6.1-1: Nmnpf_NPStatus specific Data Types
Data type Clause defined Description Applicability
* * *
NpStatusInfo 6.1.6.2.2 Number Portability Status Information
Table 6.1.6.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the Nmnpf_NPStatus service
based interface protocol from other specifications, including a reference to
their respective specifications and when needed, a short description of their
use within the Nmnpf_NPStatus service based interface.
Table 6.1.6.1-2: Nmnpf_NPStatus re-used Data Types
Data type Reference Comments Applicability
* * *
Gpsi 3GPP TS 29.571 [15] General Public Subscription Identifier  
ProblemDetails 3GPP TS 29.571 [15] Error description  
PlmnId 3GPP TS 29.571 [15] PLMN Identity
#### 6.1.6.2 Structured data types
##### 6.1.6.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines the structures to be used in resource representations.
##### 6.1.6.2.2 Type: NpStatusInfo
Table 6.1.6.2.2-1: Definition of type NpStatusInfo
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
subscriptionNetwork PlmnId M 1 Identifies the GPSI\'s subscriptionNetwork  
tbc
#### 6.1.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations
##### 6.1.6.3.1 Introduction
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced
from data structures defined in the previous clauses.
##### 6.1.6.3.2 Simple data types
The simple data types defined in table 6.1.6.3.2-1 shall be supported.
Table 6.1.6.3.2-1: Simple data types
* * *
Type Name Type Definition Description Applicability
* * *
#### 6.1.6.4 Data types describing alternative data types or combinations of
data types
None.
#### 6.1.6.5 Binary data
None.
### 6.1.7 Error Handling
#### 6.1.7.1 General
For the Nmnpf_NPStatus API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as
specified in clause 4.8 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]. Protocol errors and application
errors specified in table 5.2.7.2-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] shall be supported
for an HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes are specified as
mandatory for that HTTP method in table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the
Nmnpf_NPStatus API.
#### 6.1.7.2 Protocol Errors
Protocol errors handling shall be supported as specified in clause 5.2.7 of
3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
#### 6.1.7.3 Application Errors
The application errors defined for the Nmnpf_NPStatus service are listed in
Table 6.1.7.3-1.
Table 6.1.7.3-1: Application errors
Application Error HTTP status code Description
* * *
### 6.1.8 Feature negotiation
The optional features in table 6.1.8-1 are defined for the Nmnpf_NPStatus API.
They shall be negotiated using the extensibility mechanism defined in clause
6.6 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
Table 6.1.8-1: Supported Features
Feature number Feature Name Description
* * *
### 6.1.9 Security
As indicated in 3GPP TS 33.501 [8] and 3GPP TS 29.500 [4], the access to the
Nmnpf_NPStatus API may be authorized by means of the OAuth2 protocol (see IETF
RFC 6749 [9]), based on local configuration, using the \"Client Credentials\"
authorization grant, where the NRF (see 3GPP TS 29.510 [10]) plays the role of
the authorization server.
If OAuth2 is used, an NF Service Consumer, prior to consuming services offered
by the Nmnpf_NPStatus API, shall obtain a \"token\" from the authorization
server, by invoking the Access Token Request service, as described in 3GPP TS
29.510 [10], clause 5.4.2.2.
NOTE: When multiple NRFs are deployed in a network, the NRF used as
authorization server is the same NRF that the NF Service Consumer used for
discovering the Nmnpf_NPStatus service.
The Nmnpf_NPStatus API defines a single scope \"nmnpf-npstatus\" for the
entire service, and it does not define any additional scopes at resource or
operation level.
###### ## Annex A (normative): OpenAPI specification
# A.1 General
This Annex specifies the formal definition of the API(s) defined in the
present specification. It consists of OpenAPI specifications in YAML format.
This Annex takes precedence when being discrepant to other parts of the
specification with respect to the encoding of information elements and methods
within the API(s).
NOTE 1: The semantics and procedures, as well as conditions, e.g. for the
applicability and allowed combinations of attributes or values, not expressed
in the OpenAPI definitions but defined in other parts of the specification
also apply.
Informative copies of the OpenAPI specification files contained in this 3GPP
Technical Specification are available on a Git-based repository that uses the
GitLab software version control system (see clause 5.3.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]
and clause 5B of 3GPP TR 21.900 [7]).
# A.2 Nmnpf_NPStatus API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
title: \'Nmnpf_NPStatus\'
version: \'1.1.0-alpha.1\'
description: \|
Nmnpf Number Portability Status Service.
© 2022, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.578 V18.0.0; Mobile Number Portability Services.
url: https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.578/
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/nmnpf-npstatus/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in clause 4.4 of 3GPP TS 29.501
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- nmnpf-npstatus
paths:
/{gpsi}:
get:
summary: Retrieves the Number Portability status of the UE
operationId: GetNumberPortabilityStatus
tags:
\- Number Portability Status (Document)
parameters:
\- name: gpsi
in: path
description: GPSI of the UE
required: true
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Gpsi\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: Expected response to a valid request
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NpStatusInfo\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
description: GPSI Not Found
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'406\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/406\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'502\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/502\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
description: Unexpected error
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{nrfApiRoot}/oauth2/token\'
scopes:
nmnpf-npstatus: Access to the nmnpf-npstatus API
schemas:
# COMPLEX TYPES:
NpStatusInfo:
description: Contains the Subscription Network
type: object
required:
\- subscriptionNetwork
properties:
subscriptionNetwork:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/PlmnId\'
# SIMPLE TYPES:
# ENUMS:
###### ## Annex B (informative): Withdrawn API versions
# B.1 General
This Annex lists withdrawn API versions of the APIs defined in the present
specification. 3GPP TS 29.501 [5] clause 4.3.1.6 describes the withdrawal of
API versions.
# B.2 Nmnpf_NPstatus API
The API versions listed in table B.2-1 are withdrawn for the Nmnpf_NPStatus
API.
Table B.2-1: Withdrawn API versions of the Nmnpf_NPStatus service
API version number Remarks
* * *
#