# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 3 protocol and data model for the
Nmbstf Service Based Interface. It provides stage 3 protocol definitions and
message flows, and specifies the API for each service offered by the MBSTF.
The 5G System stage 2 architecture and procedures are specified in 3GPP TS
23.501 [2] and 3GPP TS 23.502 [3]. The 5G Multicast-Broadcast Session
Management Services for 5G System is specified in 3GPP TS 23.247 [15] and the
User Service Architecture for 5G Multicast-Broadcast Services is specified in
3GPP TS 26.502 [17].
The Technical Realization of the Service Based Architecture and the Principles
and Guidelines for Services Definition are specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] and
3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.501: \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services
Definition; Stage 3\".
[6] OpenAPI: \"OpenAPI Specification Version 3.0.0\",
[https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.0]{.underline}.
[7] 3GPP TR 21.900: \"Technical Specification Group working methods\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[9] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"5G System; Network Function Repository Services; Stage
3\".
[11] IETF RFC 7540: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2 (HTTP/2)\".
[12] IETF RFC 8259: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
[13] IETF RFC 7807: \"Problem Details for HTTP APIs\".
[14] IETF RFC 6902: \"JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Patch\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.247: \"Architectural enhancements for 5G multicast-broadcast
services; Stage 2\".
[16] 3GPP TS 29.571: \"5G System; Common Data Types for Service Based
Interfaces; Stage 3\".
[17] 3GPP TS 26.502: \"5G multicast--broadcast services; User Service
architecture; Stage 2\".
[18] 3GPP TS 29.580: \"5G System; Multicast/Broadcast Service Function
services; Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
For the definitions of the basic SBI notions (e.g. apiRoot, API URI, Callback
URI, etc.), SBI specific abbreviations (e.g. CRUD, YAML, etc.), special
characters, operators and delimiters that are used by SBI specifications, see
clause 3 in 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5MBS 5G Multicast-Broadcast Services
AF Application Function
AS Application server
DNN Data Network Name
MBSF Multicast/Broadcast Service Function
MBSTF Multicast/Broadcast Service Transport Function
MB-SMF Multicast/Broadcast Session Management Function
MB-UPF Multicast/Broadcast User Plane Function
NEF Network Exposure Function
NF Network Function
S-NSSAI Single Network Slice Selection Assistance Information
URI Uniform Resource Identifier
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 General
Within the 5GC, the MBSTF offers services to the MBSF via the Nmbstf service
based interface (see 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] and 3GPP TS 26.502 [17]).
Figures 4.1 provides the reference model (in service based interface
representation and in reference point representation), with focus on the MBSTF
and the scope of the present specification.
Figure 4-1: Reference model -- MBSTF
Nmb2 is the reference point between MBSF and MBSTF.
The functionalities supported by the MBSTF are listed in clause 5.3.2.12 of
3GPP TS 23.247 [15].
The services and service operations provided by the Nmbstf interface are
listed in clause 7.3 of 3GPP TS 26.502 [17].
# 5 Services offered by the MBSTF
## 5.1 Introduction {#introduction-1}
Table 5.1-1 summarizes the SBI services produced by the MBSTF.
Table 5.1-1: NF Services provided by MBSTF
Service Name Description Example Consumers
* * *
Nmbstf_MBSDistributionSession Manage (e.g. Create, Modify, Delete) a new MBS
Distribution Session within the MBSTF. MBSF
Table 5.1-2 summarizes the corresponding APIs defined for this specification.
Table 5.1-2: API Descriptions
Service Name Clause Description OpenAPI Specification File apiName Annex
* * *
Nmbstf_MBSDistributionSession 5.2 MBSTF Distribution Session Service TS29581_
Nmbstf_DistSession.yaml nmbstf-distsession A.2
## 5.2 Nmbstf_MBSDistributionSession Service
### 5.2.1 Service Description
The Nmbstf_MBSDistributionSession service operates on MBS distribution
sessions. The following are the key functionalities of this NF service:
\- Creation, modification, retrieval and deletion of MBS Distribution Sessions
Table 5.2.1-1 lists the service operations that are supported by the
Nmbstf_MBSDistributionSession service.
Table 5.2.1-1: Service operations supported by the
Nmbstf_MBSDistributionSession service
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Service | Description | Operation | Example | | Operations | | | Consumers | | | | Semantics | | +================+================+================+================+ | Create | Create a new | Request / | MBSF | | | MBS | Response | | | | Distribution | | | | | Session within | | | | | the MBSTF | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Update | Update an | Request / | MBSF | | | existing MBS | Response | | | | Distribution | | | | | Session | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Destroy | Delete an | Request / | MBSF | | | existing MBS | Response | | | | Distribution | | | | | Session | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Retrieve | Retrieve the | Request / | MBSF | | | parameters of | Response | | | | an existing | | | | | MBS | | | | | Distribution | | | | | Session | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | S | Subscribe to | Subscribe/ | MBSF | | tatusSubscribe | notifications | | | | | related to an | Notify | | | | MBS | | | | | Distribution | | | | | Session | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Sta | Unsubscribe | | MBSF | | tusUnsubscribe | from | | | | | notifications | | | | | related to an | | | | | MBS | | | | | Distribution | | | | | Session | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | StatusNotify | Notify | | MBSF | | | event(s) | | | | | related to an | | | | | MBS | | | | | Distribution | | | | | Session | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 5.2.2 Service Operations
#### 5.2.2.1 Introduction {#introduction-2}
See Table 5.2.1-1 for an overview of the service operations supported by the
Nmbstf_MBSDistributionSession service.
#### 5.2.2.2 Create
##### 5.2.2.2.1 General
The Create service operation shall be used to create a new MBS Distribution
Session within the MBSTF (see clauses 5.2, 4.5.2 of 3GPP TS 26.502 [17]).
The NF Service Consumer (e.g. MBSF) shall create an MBS Distribution session
in the MBSTF by using the HTTP POST method as shown in Figure 5.2.2.2.1-1.
Figure 5.2.2.2.1-1: MBS Distribution session creation
1\. The NF Service Consumer shall send a POST request (CreateReqData)
targeting the MBS Distribution Sessions collection resource of the MBSTF. The
payload body of the POST request shall contain the following information:
> \- The baseline parameters for an MBS Distribution Session including
> Distribution Session Identifier; if security protection is applied, the
> multicast session security context containing MBS Session Key (MSK), MSK
> lifetime and the corresponding key ID(s), and;
>
> \- Additional MBS Distribution Session parameters for Object Distribution
> Method, or;
>
> \- Additional MBS Distribution Session parameters for Packet Distribution
> Method;
2a. On success, the MBSTF shall return a \"201 Created\" response. The
\"Location\" header shall be present and shall contain the URI of the created
resource. The payload body of the POST response (CreateRspData) shall contain
a representation of the created MBS session.
> If MBSTF received MBS Session Key (MSK) and the corresponding key IDs in
> Create request, the response may include the multicast session security
> context containing MBS Session Key (MSK), MBS Traffic Key (MTK) and the
> corresponding key IDs,
2b. On failure, one of the HTTP status code listed in Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-3
shall be returned. The message body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure
with the \"cause\" attribute set to one of the application errors listed in
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-3.
2c. On redirection, \"307 Temporary Redirect\" or \"308 Permanent Redirect\"
shall be returned. A RedirectResponse IE shall be included in the payload body
of POST response.
#### 5.2.2.3 Update
##### 5.2.2.3.1 General
The Update service operation shall be used to update an existing MBS
Distribution Session within the MBSTF (see clauses 5.2, 4.5.2 of 3GPP TS
26.502 [17]).
The NF Service Consumer (e.g. MBSF) shall update an MBS Distribution session
in the MBSTF by using the HTTP PATCH method as shown in Figure 5.2.2.3.1-1.
Figure 5.2.2.3.1-1: MBS Distribution session update
1\. The NF Service Consumer shall send a PATCH request (PatchData) to update
the MBS distribution session. The request may include an updated multicast
session security context containing MBS Session Key (MSK), MSK lifetime and
the corresponding key IDs if MBSF generated a new MSK.
2a. On success, the MBSTF shall return \"204 No Content\";
2b. On success, the MBSTF shall return \"200 OK\" containing new resource
representation of MBS distribution session, if MBSTF received an updated
multicast session security context, and/or if the MBSTF generated a new MBS
Traffic Key (MTK);
2c. On failure, one of the HTTP status code listed in Table 6.1.3.3.3.1-3
shall be returned. The message body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure
with the \"cause\" attribute set to one of the application errors listed in
Table 6.1.3.3.3.1-3.
2d. On redirection, \"307 Temporary Redirect\" or \"308 Permanent Redirect\"
shall be returned. A RedirectResponse IE shall be included in the payload body
of PATCH response.
#### 5.2.2.4 Destroy
##### 5.2.2.4.1 General
The Destroy service operation shall be used to delete an existing MBS
Distribution Session within the MBSTF (see clauses 5.2, 4.5.2 of 3GPP TS
26.502 [17]).
The NF Service Consumer (e.g. MBSF) shall delete an MBS Distribution session
in the MBSTF by using the HTTP DELETE method as shown in Figure 5.2.2.4.1-1.
Figure 5.2.2.4.1-1: MBS Distribution session deletion
1\. The NF Service Consumer shall send a DELETE request (distSessionRef) to
release the MBS distribution session.
2a. On success, the MBSTF shall delete the MBS distribution session and return
a \"204 No Content\" response.
2b. On failure, one of the HTTP status code listed in Table 6.1.3.3.3.2-3
shall be returned. The message body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure
with the \"cause\" attribute set to one of the application errors listed in
Table 6.1.3.3.3.2-3.
2c. On redirection, \"307 Temporary Redirect\" or \"308 Permanent Redirect\"
shall be returned. A RedirectResponse IE shall be included in the payload body
of DELETE response.
#### 5.2.2.5 Retrieve
##### 5.2.2.5.1 General
The Retrieve service operation shall be used to retrieve the parameters of an
existing MBS Distribution Session within the MBSTF (see clauses 5.2, 4.5.2 of
3GPP TS 26.502 [17]).
The NF Service Consumer (e.g. MBSF) shall retrieve an MBS Distribution session
in the MBSTF by using the HTTP GET method as shown in Figure 5.2.2.5.1-1.
Figure 5.2.2.5.1-1: MBS Distribution session retrieval
1\. The NF Service Consumer shall send a GET request to the resource
representing the MBS distribution session (distSessionRef).
2a. On success, the MBSTF shall respond with \"200 OK\" with the message body
containing parameters of the distribution session (distSession).
2b. On failure, one of the HTTP status code listed in Table 6.1.3.3.3.3-3
shall be returned. The message body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure
with the \"cause\" attribute set to one of the application errors listed in
Table 6.1.3.3.3.3-3.
2c. On redirection, \"307 Temporary Redirect\" or \"308 Permanent Redirect\"
shall be returned. A RedirectResponse IE shall be included in the payload body
of GET response.
#### 5.2.2.6 StatusSubscribe service operation
##### 5.2.2.6.1 General
The StatusSubscribe service operation shall be used by an NF Service Consumer
(e.g. MBSF) to create a subscription to the MBSTF notifications related to the
event(s) of an MBS distribution session.
##### 5.2.2.6.2 Subscription creation
The NF Service Consumer (e.g. MBSF) shall subscribe to MBSTF service
notifications by using the HTTP POST method as shown in Figure 5.2.2.6.2-1.
Figure 5.2.2.6.2-1: Subscribing to MBSTF notifications
> 1\. The NF Service Consumer shall send a POST request
> (StatusSubscribeReqData) to the resource URI representing the subscriptions
> collection resource in the MBSTF. The payload body of the POST request shall
> contain:
>
> \- the list of MBS distribution session events requested to be subscribed.
>
> \- the Notification URI , indicating the address where the MBSTF shall send
> the notifications;
>
> The request body may also contain:
>
> \- an expiry time suggested by the NF Service Consumer, representing the
> time span during which the subscription is desired to be kept active; and
>
> \- Notification Correlation ID;
>
> 2a. On success, the MBSTF shall return a \"201 Created\" response. The
> \"Location\" header shall be present and shall contain the URI of the
> created resource. The payload body of the POST response
> (StatusSubscribeRspData) shall include:
>
> \- the Distribution Session Identifier;
>
> \- the list of events successfully subscribed;
>
> \- the expiry time after which the subscription becomes invalid.
>
> 2b. On failure, one of the HTTP status code listed in the data structures
> supported by the POST Response Body (see Table 6.1.3.4.3.1-3) shall be
> returned. The message body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure with the
> \"cause\" attribute set to one of the application error listed in the same
> Table 6.1.3.4.3.1-3).
2c. On redirection, \"307 Temporary Redirect\" or \"308 Permanent Redirect\"
shall be returned. A RedirectResponse IE shall be included in the payload body
of POST response.
##### 5.2.2.6.3 Subscription update
When the StatusSubscribe service operation is used for updating a
subscription, the NF Service Consumer (e.g. MBSF) shall update its
subscription to MBSTF notifications by using the HTTP PATCH method as shown in
Figure 5.2.2.6.3-1.
Figure 5.2.2.6.3-1: Updating a subscription to MBSTF notifications
1\. The NF Service Consumer shall send a PATCH request to update the
individual subscription resource in the MBSTF (/dist-
sessions/{distSessionRef}/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}). The message body
contains an array(PatchItem), where each PatchItem type indicates a requested
change to the DistSessionSubscription data structure (see clause 6.1.6.2.10).
The following information may be requested to be modified with
array(PatchItem) structure (see Table 6.1.3.5.3.2-2):
\- Notification URI (callback URI), indicating the address where the MBSTF
shall send the notifications;
\- New expiration time;
2a. On success, the MBSTF shall return a \"200 Ok\" response with a
representation of the modified subscription (DistSessionSubscription data
structure (see clause 6.1.6.2.10)).
2b. On failure, one of the HTTP status code listed in Table 6.1.3.5.3.2-3
shall be returned. The message body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure
with the \"cause\" attribute set to one of the application errors listed in
Table 6.1.3.5.3.2-3.
2c. On redirection, \"307 Temporary Redirect\" or \"308 Permanent Redirect\"
shall be returned. A RedirectResponse IE shall be included in the payload body
of PATCH response.
#### 5.2.2.7 StatusUnsubscribe
##### 5.2.2.7.1 General
The StatusUnsubscribe service operation shall be used by an NF Service
Consumer (e.g. MBSF) to unsubscribe from the MBSTF notifications related to an
MBS distribution session.
The NF Service Consumer (e.g. MBSF) shall unsubscribe from MBSTF notifications
by using the HTTP DELETE method as shown in Figure 5.2.2.7.1-1.
Figure 5.2.2.7.1-1: Unsubscribing from MBSTF notifications
> 1\. The NF Service Consumer shall send a DELETE request to the resource URI
> representing the individual subscription document resource in the MBSTF.
>
> 2\. On success, the MBSTF shall return a \"204 No Content\" response.
>
> 2b. On failure, one of the HTTP status code listed in the data structures
> supported by the DELETE Response Body (see Table 6.1.3.5.3.1-3) shall be
> returned. The message body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure with the
> \"cause\" attribute set to one of the application error listed in the same
> Table 6.1.3.5.3.1-3.
2c. On redirection, \"307 Temporary Redirect\" or \"308 Permanent Redirect\"
shall be returned. A RedirectResponse IE shall be included in the payload body
of DELETE response.
#### 5.2.2.8 StatusNotify
##### 5.2.2.8.1 General
The StatusNotify service operation shall be used by the MBSTF to notify a
subscribed NF Service Consumer (e.g. MBSF) about the events related to an MBS
distribution session.
The MBSTF shall notify the NF Service Consumer (e.g. MBSF) by using the HTTP
POST method to the callback URI received earlier in the subscription as shown
in Figure 5.2.2.8.1-1.
Figure 5.2.2.8.1-1: MBTSMF notifications
> 1\. The MBSTF shall send a POST request (StatusNotifyReqData) to the
> callback URI ({notifUri}) of the subscribed NF Service Consumer. The payload
> body of the POST request shall contain:
>
> \- Notification Correlation ID, if this information was provided during
> subscription;
>
> \- the list of MBS distribution session events to be reported:
>
> \- report a DATA_INGEST_FAILURE event when the MBSTF failed to ingest data
> from the AF/AS;
>
> \- report a SESSION_DEACTIVATED event when the MBS distribution session is
> deactivated;
>
> \- report a SESSION_ACTIVATED event when the MBS distribution session is
> activated.
>
> 2a. On success, the MBSF shall return a \"204 No Content\" response.
2b. On failure, one of the HTTP status code listed in the data structures
supported by the POST Response Body (see Table 6.1.5.2.3.1-2) shall be
returned. The message body shall contain a ProblemDetails structure with the
\"cause\" attribute set to one of the application error listed in the same
Table 6.1.5.2.3.1-2).
2c. On redirection, \"307 Temporary Redirect\" or \"308 Permanent Redirect\"
shall be returned. A RedirectResponse IE shall be included in the payload body
of POST response.
# 6 API Definitions
## 6.1 Nmbstf_MBSDistributionSession Service API
### 6.1.1 Introduction {#introduction-3}
The Nmbstf_MBSDistributionSession service shall use the Nmbstf-distsession
API.
The API URI of the Nmbstf_MBSDistributionSession API shall be:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\**
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the NF service consumer towards
the NF service producer shall have the Resource URI structure defined in
clause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5], i.e.:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\/\**
with the following components:
\- The {apiRoot} shall be set as described in 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
\- The \ shall be \"nmbstf-distsession\".
\- The \ shall be \"v1\".
\- The \ shall be set as described in clause
6.1.3.
### 6.1.2 Usage of HTTP
#### 6.1.2.1 General
HTTP/2, IETF RFC 7540 [11], shall be used as specified in clause 5 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4].
HTTP/2 shall be transported as specified in clause 5.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
The OpenAPI [6] specification of HTTP messages and content bodies for the
Nmbstf-distsession API is contained in Annex A.
#### 6.1.2.2 HTTP standard headers
##### 6.1.2.2.1 General
See clause 5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] for the usage of HTTP standard headers.
##### 6.1.2.2.2 Content type
JSON, IETF RFC 8259 [12], shall be used as content type of the HTTP bodies
specified in the present specification as specified in clause 5.4 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4]. The use of the JSON format shall be signalled by the content type
\"application/json\".
\"Problem Details\" JSON object shall be used to indicate additional details
of the error in a HTTP response body and shall be signalled by the content
type \"application/problem+json\", as defined in IETF RFC 7807 [13].
#### 6.1.2.3 HTTP custom headers
The mandatory HTTP custom header fields specified in clause 5.2.3.2 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4] shall be supported, and the optional HTTP custom header fields
specified in clause 5.2.3.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] may be supported.
### 6.1.3 Resources
#### 6.1.3.1 Overview
Figure 6.1.3.1-1 describes the resource URI structure of the
Nmbstf_MBSDistributionSession API.
Figure 6.1.3.1-1: Resource URI structure of the Nmbstf_MBSDistributionSession
API
Table 6.1.3.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 6.1.3.1-1: Resources and methods overview
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Resource | Resource URI | HTTP method or | Description | | purpose/name | (relative path | custom | (service | | | after API URI) | operation | operation) | +================+================+================+================+ | MBS | /dist-sessions | POST | Create | | Distribution | | | | | sessions | | | | | collection | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Individual MBS | /di | PATCH | Update | | Distribution | st-sessions/{d | | | | session | istSessionRef} | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | GET | Retrieve | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | DELETE | Destroy | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Subscriptions | /di | POST | S | | collection for | st-sessions/{d | | tatusSubscribe | | MBS | istSessionRef} | | | | Distribution | /subscriptions | | (to create a | | sessions | | | subscription) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Individual | /dist- | DELETE | Sta | | subscription | sessions/{dist | | tusUnsubscribe | | for an MBS | SessionRef}/su | | | | Distribution | bscriptions/{s | | | | session | ubscriptionId} | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | PATCH | S | | | | | tatusSubscribe | | | | | | | | | | (to update or | | | | | renew a | | | | | subscription) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.1.3.2 Resource: MBS Distribution sessions collection (Collection)
##### 6.1.3.2.1 Description
This resource represents the collection of the MBS Distribution sessions
created in the MBSTF.
This resource is modelled with the Collection resource archetype (see clause
C.2 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]).
##### 6.1.3.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nmbstf-distSession/\ /dist-sessions**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.2.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
Name Data type Definition
* * *
apiRoot string See clause 6.1.1 apiVersion string See clause 6.1.1
##### 6.1.3.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### 6.1.3.2.3.1 POST
This method creates an individual MBS distribution session resource in the
MBSTF.
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.2.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the POST method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.2.3.1-3.
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description CreateReqData M 1 Representation of the
MBS distribution session to be created in the MBSTF
* * *
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | CreateRspData | M | 1 | 201 Created | Successful | | | | | | creation of | | | | | | an MBS | | | | | | session | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in | | | | | | Ta | | | | | | ble 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Red | | | | | | irectResponse | | | | | | may be | | | | | | inserted by | | | | | | an SCP, see | | | | | | cl | | | | | | ause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4]. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-4: Headers supported by the POST method on this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-5: Headers supported by the 201 response code on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 Contains the URI
of the newly created resource, according to the structure: {apiRoot}/nmbstf-
distSession/\/dist-sessions/{distSessionRef}
* * *
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-6: Headers supported by the 307 response code on this
resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance within | | | | | | the same MBSTF | | | | | | or MBSTF | | | | | | (service) set. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the case, | | | | | | when a request | | | | | | is redirected | | | | | | to the same | | | | | | target resource | | | | | | via a different | | | | | | SCP, see | | | | | | clause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | in | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [4]. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target | | | | | | MBSTF (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-7: Headers supported by the 308 response code on this
resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance within | | | | | | the same MBSTF | | | | | | or MBSTF | | | | | | (service) set. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the case, | | | | | | when a request | | | | | | is redirected | | | | | | to the same | | | | | | target resource | | | | | | via a different | | | | | | SCP, see | | | | | | clause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | in | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [4]. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target | | | | | | MBSTF (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
##### 6.1.3.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
None
#### 6.1.3.3 Resource: Individual MBS distribution session (Document)
##### 6.1.3.3.1 Description
This resource represents an individual MBS distribution session created in the
MBSTF.
This resource is modelled with the Document resource archetype (see clause C.1
of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]).
##### 6.1.3.3.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nmbstf-distSession/\ /dist-
sessions/{distSessionRef}**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.3.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.3.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
**Name** **Data type** **Definition**
* * *
apiRoot String See clause 6.1.1 apiVersion String See clause 6.1.1
distSessionRef String MBS distribution session reference assigned by the MBSTF
during the Create service operation
##### 6.1.3.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### 6.1.3.3.3.1 PATCH
This method updates an individual MBS distribution session resource in the
MBSTF.
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.3.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.3.3.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the PATCH method on
this resource
* * *
**Name** **Data type** **P** **Cardinality** **Description** **Applicability**
n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.3.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.3.3.1-3.
Table 6.1.3.3.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the PATCH Request Body on
this resource
* * *
**Data type** **P** **Cardinality** **Description** array(PatchItem) M 1 List
of changes to be made to the MBS session resource, according to the JSON PATCH
format specified in IETF RFC 6902 [16].
* * *
Table 6.1.3.3.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the PATCH Response Body on
this resource
+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | **Data |** P**|** C | **Response** | **D | | type** | | ardinality**| | escription** | | | | | **codes** | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | Successful | | | | | Content | response | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | DistSession | M | 1 | 200 OK | Upon | | | | | | success, a | | | | | | response | | | | | | body | | | | | | containing | | | | | | the updated | | | | | | re | | | | | | presentation | | | | | | of | | | | | | Distribution | | | | | | Session | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | returned | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Redi | O | 0..1 | 307 | Temporary | | rectResponse | | | Temporary | redirection. | | | | | Redirect | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Redi | O | 0..1 | 308 | Permanent | | rectResponse | | | Permanent | redirection. | | | | | Redirect | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the | | | | | | PATCH method | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Redi | | | | | | rectResponse | | | | | | may be | | | | | | inserted by | | | | | | an SCP, see | | | | | | cla | | | | | | use 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS 2 | | | | | | 9.500 [4]. | | | | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
Table 6.1.3.3.3.1-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this
resource
+--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | **Name** | **Data |** P**|** C | **D | | | type** | | ardinality**| escription** | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on | | | | | | an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same MBSTF | | | | | | or MBSTF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the | | | | | | case, when a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected | | | | | | to the same | | | | | | target | | | | | | resource via | | | | | | a different | | | | | | SCP, see | | | | | | cla | | | | | | use 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | in | | | | | | 3GPP TS 2 | | | | | | 9.500 [4]. | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | 3gpp-Sbi- | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier | | Target-Nf-Id | | | | of the | | | | | | target MBSTF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards | | | | | | which the | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+
Table 6.1.3.3.3.1-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this
resource
+--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | **Name** | **Data |** P**|** C | **D | | | type** | | ardinality**| escription** | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on | | | | | | an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same MBSTF | | | | | | or MBSTF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the | | | | | | case, when a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected | | | | | | to the same | | | | | | target | | | | | | resource via | | | | | | a different | | | | | | SCP, see | | | | | | cla | | | | | | use 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | in | | | | | | 3GPP TS 2 | | | | | | 9.500 [4]. | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | 3gpp-Sbi- | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier | | Target-Nf-Id | | | | of the | | | | | | target MBSTF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards | | | | | | which the | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+
###### 6.1.3.3.3.2 DELETE
This method deletes an individual MBS distribution session resource in the
MBSTF.
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.3.3.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.3.3.2-1: URI query parameters supported by the DELETE method on
this resource
* * *
**Name** **Data type** **P** **Cardinality** **Description** **Applicability**
n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.3.3.2-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.3.3.2-3.
Table 6.1.3.3.3.2-2: Data structures supported by the DELETE Request Body on
this resource
* * *
**Data type** **P** **Cardinality** **Description** n/a
* * *
Table 6.1.3.3.3.2-3: Data structures supported by the DELETE Response Body on
this resource
+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | **Data |** P**|** C | **Response** | **D | | type** | | ardinality**| | escription** | | | | | **codes** | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | Successful | | | | | Content | response | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Redi | O | 0..1 | 307 | Temporary | | rectResponse | | | Temporary | redirection. | | | | | Redirect | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Redi | O | 0..1 | 308 | Permanent | | rectResponse | | | Permanent | redirection. | | | | | Redirect | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the | | | | | | DELETE | | | | | | method | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Redi | | | | | | rectResponse | | | | | | may be | | | | | | inserted by | | | | | | an SCP, see | | | | | | cla | | | | | | use 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS 2 | | | | | | 9.500 [4]. | | | | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
Table 6.1.3.3.3.2-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this
resource
+--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | **Name** | **Data |** P**|** C | **D | | | type** | | ardinality**| escription** | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on | | | | | | an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same MBSTF | | | | | | or MBSTF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the | | | | | | case, when a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected | | | | | | to the same | | | | | | target | | | | | | resource via | | | | | | a different | | | | | | SCP, see | | | | | | cla | | | | | | use 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | in | | | | | | 3GPP TS 2 | | | | | | 9.500 [4]. | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | 3gpp-Sbi- | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier | | Target-Nf-Id | | | | of the | | | | | | target MBSTF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards | | | | | | which the | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+
Table 6.1.3.3.3.2-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this
resource
+--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | **Name** | **Data |** P**|** C | **D | | | type** | | ardinality**| escription** | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on | | | | | | an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same MBSTF | | | | | | or MBSTF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the | | | | | | case, when a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected | | | | | | to the same | | | | | | target | | | | | | resource via | | | | | | a different | | | | | | SCP, see | | | | | | cla | | | | | | use 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | in | | | | | | 3GPP TS 2 | | | | | | 9.500 [4]. | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | 3gpp-Sbi- | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier | | Target-Nf-Id | | | | of the | | | | | | target | | | | | | MB-STF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards | | | | | | which the | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+
###### 6.1.3.3.3.3 GET
This method retrieves an individual MBS distribution session resource in the
MBSTF.
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.3.3.3-1.
Table 6.1.3.3.3.3-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on this
resource
* * *
**Name** **Data type** **P** **Cardinality** **Description** **Applicability**
n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.3.3.3-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.3.3.3-3.
Table 6.1.3.3.3.3-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on this
resource
* * *
**Data type** **P** **Cardinality** **Description** n/a
* * *
Table 6.1.3.3.3.3-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on
this resource
+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | **Data |** P**|** C | **Response** | **D | | type** | | ardinality**| | escription** | | | | | **codes** | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | DistSession | M | 1 | 200 OK | Successful | | | | | | response | | | | | | containing | | | | | | re | | | | | | presentation | | | | | | of the MBS | | | | | | Distribution | | | | | | Session | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Redi | O | 0..1 | 307 | Temporary | | rectResponse | | | Temporary | redirection. | | | | | Redirect | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Redi | O | 0..1 | 308 | Permanent | | rectResponse | | | Permanent | redirection. | | | | | Redirect | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the GET | | | | | | method | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Redi | | | | | | rectResponse | | | | | | may be | | | | | | inserted by | | | | | | an SCP, see | | | | | | cla | | | | | | use 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS 2 | | | | | | 9.500 [4]. | | | | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
Table 6.1.3.3.3.3-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this
resource
+--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | **Name** | **Data |** P**|** C | **D | | | type** | | ardinality**| escription** | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on | | | | | | an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same MBSTF | | | | | | or MBSTF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the | | | | | | case, when a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected | | | | | | to the same | | | | | | target | | | | | | resource via | | | | | | a different | | | | | | SCP, see | | | | | | cla | | | | | | use 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | in | | | | | | 3GPP TS 2 | | | | | | 9.500 [4]. | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | 3gpp-Sbi- | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier | | Target-Nf-Id | | | | of the | | | | | | target MBSTF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards | | | | | | which the | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+
Table 6.1.3.3.3.3-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this
resource
+--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | **Name** | **Data |** P**|** C | **D | | | type** | | ardinality**| escription** | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on | | | | | | an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same MBSTF | | | | | | or MBSTF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the | | | | | | case, when a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected | | | | | | to the same | | | | | | target | | | | | | resource via | | | | | | a different | | | | | | SCP, see | | | | | | cla | | | | | | use 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | in | | | | | | 3GPP TS 2 | | | | | | 9.500 [4]. | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | 3gpp-Sbi- | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier | | Target-Nf-Id | | | | of the | | | | | | target MBSTF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards | | | | | | which the | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+
##### 6.1.3.3.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.
#### 6.1.3.4 Resource: Subscriptions collection for MBS distribution session
(Collection)
##### 6.1.3.4.1 Description
This resource represents the collection of the individual subscriptions for an
MBS distribution session created in the MBSTF with StatusSubscribe service
operation.
This resource is modelled with the Collection resource archetype (see clause
C.2 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]).
##### 6.1.3.4.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nmbstf-distSession/\ /dist-
sessions/{distSessionRef}/subscriptions**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.4.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.4.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
Name Data type Definition
* * *
apiRoot string See clause 6.1.1 apiVersion string See clause 6.1.1
distSessionRef string MBS distribution session reference assigned by the MBSTF
during the Create service operation
##### 6.1.3.4.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### 6.1.3.4.3.1 POST
This method creates an individual subscription resource for an MBS
distribution session in the MBSTF with StatusSubscribe service operation.
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.4.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.3.4.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the POST method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.4.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.4.3.1-3.
Table 6.1.3.4.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description StatusSubscribeReqData M 1 Data within the
StatusSubscribe Request
* * *
Table 6.1.3.4.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | StatusSub | M | 1 | 201 Created | Data within | | scribeRspData | | | | the | | | | | | St | | | | | | atusSubscribe | | | | | | Response | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Red | | | | | | irectResponse | | | | | | may be | | | | | | inserted by | | | | | | an SCP, see | | | | | | cl | | | | | | ause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4]. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 6.1.3.4.3.1-4: Headers supported by the POST method on this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
Table 6.1.3.4.3.1-5: Headers supported by the 201 response code on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 Contains the URI
of the newly created resource, according to the structure: {apiRoot}/nmbstf-
distSession/\/dist-
sessions/{distSessionRef}/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}
* * *
Table 6.1.3.4.3.1-6: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this
resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance within | | | | | | the same MBSTF | | | | | | or MBSTF | | | | | | (service) set. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the case, | | | | | | when a request | | | | | | is redirected | | | | | | to the same | | | | | | target resource | | | | | | via a different | | | | | | SCP, see | | | | | | clause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | in | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [4]. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target | | | | | | MBSTF (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
Table 6.1.3.4.3.1-7: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this
resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance within | | | | | | the same MBSTF | | | | | | or MBSTF | | | | | | (service) set. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the case, | | | | | | when a request | | | | | | is redirected | | | | | | to the same | | | | | | target resource | | | | | | via a different | | | | | | SCP, see | | | | | | clause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | in | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [4]. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target | | | | | | MBSTF (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
##### 6.1.3.4.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.
#### 6.1.3.5 Resource: Individual subscription for an MBS distribution session
(Document)
##### 6.1.3.5.1 Description
This resource represents an individual subscription for an MBS distribution
session in the MBSTF, which can be deleted with StatusUnsubscribe service
operation or updated with StatusSubscribe service operation.
This resource is modelled with the Document resource archetype (see clause C.1
of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]).
##### 6.1.3.5.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nmbstf-distsession/\ /dist-
sessions/{distSessionRef}/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.5.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.5.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
Name Data type Definition
* * *
apiRoot string See clause 6.1.1 apiVersion string See clause 6.1.1
distSessionRef string MBS distribution session reference assigned by the MBSTF
during the Create service operation subscriptionId string Subscription
identifier assigned by the MBSTF during the creation of the subscription
##### 6.1.3.5.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### 6.1.3.5.3.1 DELETE
This method deletes an individual subscription resource for an MBS
distribution session in the MBSTF with StatusUnsubscribe service operation.
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.5.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.3.5.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the DELETE method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.5.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.5.3.1-3.
Table 6.1.3.5.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the DELETE Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 6.1.3.5.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the DELETE Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | Codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | Successful | | | | | Content | deletion | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Red | | | | | | irectResponse | | | | | | may be | | | | | | inserted by | | | | | | an SCP, see | | | | | | cl | | | | | | ause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4]. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 6.1.3.5.3.1-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this
resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance within | | | | | | the same MBSTF | | | | | | or MBSTF | | | | | | (service) set. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the case, | | | | | | when a request | | | | | | is redirected | | | | | | to the same | | | | | | target resource | | | | | | via a different | | | | | | SCP, see | | | | | | clause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | in | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [4]. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target | | | | | | MBSTF (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
Table 6.1.3.5.3.1-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this
resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance within | | | | | | the same MBSTF | | | | | | or MBSTF | | | | | | (service) set. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the case, | | | | | | when a request | | | | | | is redirected | | | | | | to the same | | | | | | target resource | | | | | | via a different | | | | | | SCP, see | | | | | | clause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | in | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [4]. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target | | | | | | MBSTF (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
###### 6.1.3.5.3.2 PATCH
This method updates an individual subscription resource for an MBS
distribution session in the MBSTF with StatusSubscribe service operation for
the subscription update (see clause 5.2.2.6.3).
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.5.3.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.5.3.2-1: URI query parameters supported by the PATCH method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.5.3.2-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.5.3.2-3.
Table 6.1.3.5.3.2-2: Data structures supported by the PATCH Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description array(PatchItem) M 1 It shall contain the
list of changes to be made to the Status Subscription (i.e.
DistSessionSubscription data type), according to the JSON PATCH format
specified in IETF RFC 6902 [16].
* * *
Table 6.1.3.5.3.2-3: Data structures supported by the PATCH Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | DistSessio | M | 1 | 200 OK | Upon success, | | nSubscription | | | | a response | | | | | | body shall be | | | | | | returned | | | | | | containing | | | | | | the updated | | | | | | Status | | | | | | Subscription. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Red | | | | | | irectResponse | | | | | | may be | | | | | | inserted by | | | | | | an SCP, see | | | | | | cl | | | | | | ause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4]. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 6.1.3.5.3.2-4: Headers supported by the PATCH method on this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
Table 6.1.3.5.3.2-5: Headers supported by the 200 response code on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
Table 6.1.3.5.3.2-6: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this
resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance within | | | | | | the same MBSTF | | | | | | or MBSTF | | | | | | (service) set. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the case, | | | | | | when a request | | | | | | is redirected | | | | | | to the same | | | | | | target resource | | | | | | via a different | | | | | | SCP, see | | | | | | clause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | in | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [4]. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target | | | | | | MBSTF (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
Table 6.1.3.5.3.2-7: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this
resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance within | | | | | | the same MBSTF | | | | | | or MBSTF | | | | | | (service) set. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the case, | | | | | | when a request | | | | | | is redirected | | | | | | to the same | | | | | | target resource | | | | | | via a different | | | | | | SCP, see | | | | | | clause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | in | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [4]. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target | | | | | | MBSTF (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
##### 6.1.3.5.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.
### 6.1.4 Custom Operations without associated resources
None
### 6.1.5 Notifications
#### 6.1.5.1 General
Notifications shall comply to clause 6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] and clause
4.6.2.3 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
Table 6.1.5.1-1: Notifications overview
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Notification | Callback URI | HTTP method or | Description | | | | custom | | | | | operation | (service | | | | | operation) | +================+==============+================+================+ | Event | NotifUri | POST | StatusNotify | | Notification | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.1.5.2 StatusNotify
##### 6.1.5.2.1 Description
The Event Notification is used by the NF service producer to report one or
several observed Events to a NF service consumer that has subscribed to such
Notifications.
##### 6.1.5.2.2 Target URI
The Callback URI **\"{notifUri}\"** shall be used with the callback URI
variables defined in table 6.1.5.2.2-1.
Table 6.1.5.2.2-1: Callback URI variables
Name Definition
* * *
notifUri String formatted as URI with the Callback Uri
##### 6.1.5.2.3 Standard Methods
##### 6.1.5.2.3.1 POST {#post-2 .H6}
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.5.2.3.1-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.5.2.3.1-2.
Table 6.1.5.2.3.1-1: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body
Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
StatusNotifyReqData M 1 Data within the StatusNotify Request
Table 6.1.5.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body
Data type P Cardinality Response codes Description
* * *
n/a 204 No Content Successful response RedirectResponse O 0..1 307 Temporary
Redirect Temporary redirection. RedirectResponse O 0..1 308 Permanent Redirect
Permanent redirection. NOTE: The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the
POST method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] also apply.
Table 6.1.5.2.3.1-3: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 A URI pointing to
the endpoint of the NF service consumer to which the notification should be
sent. For the case, when a request is redirected to the same target resource
via a different SCP, see clause 6.10.9.1 in 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]. 3gpp-Sbi-
Target-Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the target NF (service) instance ID
towards which the request is redirected
* * *
Table 6.1.5.2.3.1-4: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 A URI pointing to
the endpoint of the NF service consumer to which the notification should be
sent. For the case, when a request is redirected to the same target resource
via a different SCP, see clause 6.10.9.1 in 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]. 3gpp-Sbi-
Target-Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the target NF (service) instance ID
towards which the request is redirected
* * *
### 6.1.6 Data Model
#### 6.1.6.1 General
This clause specifies the application data model supported by the API.
Table 6.1.6.1-1 specifies the data types defined for the
Nmbstf_MBSDistributionSession service based interface protocol.
Table 6.1.6.1-1: Nmbstf_MBSDistributionSession specific Data Types
Data type Clause defined Description Applicability
* * *
CreateReqData 6.1.6.2.2 Data within the Create Request  
CreateRspData 6.1.6.2.3 Data within the Create Response  
DistSession 6.1.6.2.4 Data specific to distribution session  
ObjDistributionData 6.1.6.2.5 Data specific to Object Distribution Method  
PktDistributionData 6.1.6.2.6 Data specific to Packet Distribution Method  
StatusSubscribeReqData 6.1.6.2.7 Data within Subscription creation request  
StatusSubscribeRspData 6.1.6.2.8 Data within Subscription creation response  
StatusNotifyReqData 6.1.6.2.9 Data within Notification request  
DistSessionSubscription 6.1.6.2.10 Data specific to subscription request  
DistSessionEventReportList 6.1.6.2.11 MBS distribution session event report
list  
DistSessionEventReport 6.1.6.2.12 MBS distribution session event report  
UpTrafficFlowInfo 6.1.6.2.13 IP Multicast Address and Port Number  
MbStfIngestAddr 6.1.6.2.14 MBSTF Ingest Addresses  
ExtSsm 6.1.6.2.15 SSM and Port Number  
DistSessionState 6.1.6.3.3 MBS distribution session state  
ObjDistributionOperatingMode 6.1.6.3.4 Operating Mode for Object distribution
method  
ObjAcquisitionMethod 6.1.6.3.5 Object acquisition method  
PktDistributionOperatingMode 6.1.6.3.6 Operating Mode for Packet distribution
method  
DistSessionEventType 6.1.6.3.7 MBS distribution session event type  
PktIngestMethod 6.1.6.3.8 Packet Ingest Method
Table 6.1.6.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the
Nmbstf_MBSDistributionSession service based interface protocol from other
specifications, including a reference to their respective specifications and
when needed, a short description of their use within the
Nmbstf_MBSDistributionSession service based interface.
Table 6.1.6.1-2: Nmbstf_MBSDistributionSession re-used Data Types
Data type Reference Comments Applicability
* * *
TunnelAddress 3GPP TS 29.571 [16] Tunnel Address (UDP/IP)  
BitRate 3GPP TS 29.571 [16] Bit Rate  
PacketDelBudget 3GPP TS 29.571 [16] Maximum Delay  
Uri 3GPP TS 29.571 [16] Uniform resource identifier  
DateTime 3GPP TS 29.571 [16] Data and Time  
NfInstanceId 3GPP TS 29.571 [16] NF Instance Identifier  
Uinteger 3GPP TS 29.571 [16] Unsigned Integer  
IpAddr 3GPP TS 29.571 [16] IP Address  
Ssm 3GPP TS 29.571 [16] Source Specific Multicast Address  
MbsSecurityContext 3GPP TS 29.571 [16] MBS Security Context  
FECConfig 3GPP TS 29.580 [18] FEC Configuration  
RedirectResponse 3GPP TS 29.571 [16] Contains redirection related information.
#### 6.1.6.2 Structured data types
##### 6.1.6.2.1 Introduction {#introduction-4}
This clause defines the structures to be used in resource representations.
##### 6.1.6.2.2 Type: CreateReqData
Table 6.1.6.2.2-1: Definition of type CreateReqData
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
distSession DistSession M 1 MBS Distribution Session to be created.
##### 6.1.6.2.3 Type: CreateRspData
Table 6.1.6.2.3-1: Definition of type CreateRspData
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
distSession DistSession M 1 Representation of the created MBS session
##### 6.1.6.2.4 Type: DistSession
Table 6.1.6.2.4-1: Definition of type DistSession
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +===========+===========+===+===========+===========+===========+ | dist | string | M | 1 | An | | | SessionId | | | | i | | | | | | | dentifier | | | | | | | for this | | | | | | | MBS | | | | | | | Dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | Session | | | | | | | assigned | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | MBSF that | | | | | | | is unique | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | the scope | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | MBS User | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | cla | | | | | | | use 4.5.3 | | | | | | | of 3GPP | | | | | | | TS | | | | | | | 26.502) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | distSes | DistSes | M | 1 | The | | | sionState | sionState | | | current | | | | | | | state of | | | | | | | the MBS | | | | | | | Dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | Session | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | cla | | | | | | | use 4.6.1 | | | | | | | of 3GPP | | | | | | | TS | | | | | | | 26.502) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | mbU | Tunn | M | 1 | The | | | pfTunAddr | elAddress | | | tunnel | | | | | | | endpoint | | | | | | | address | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | MB‑UPF | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | supports | | | | | | | this MBS | | | | | | | Dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | Session | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | reference | | | | | | | point | | | | | | | Nmb9 or | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | tunnel | | | | | | | endpoint | | | | | | | address | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | MBMS-GW | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | reference | | | | | | | point | | | | | | | SGi-mb. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Wr | | | | | | | ite-Only: | | | | | | | true | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | mbms | Tunn | O | 0..1 | This IE | | | GwTunAddr | elAddress | | | may be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | contain | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | tunnel | | | | | | | endpoint | | | | | | | address | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | MBMS-GW | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | reference | | | | | | | point | | | | | | | SGi-mb | | | | | | | when the | | | | | | | mbU | | | | | | | pfTunAddr | | | | | | | is also | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | contains | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | tunnel | | | | | | | endpoint | | | | | | | address | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | MB‑UPF | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | supports | | | | | | | this MBS | | | | | | | Dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | Session | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | reference | | | | | | | point | | | | | | | Nmb9. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Wr | | | | | | | ite-Only: | | | | | | | true | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | upTraffi | UpTraffi | C | 0..1 | Details | | | cFlowInfo | cFlowInfo | | | of the | | | | | | | traffic | | | | | | | flow to | | | | | | | be used | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | MBSTF for | | | | | | | this MBS | | | | | | | Dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | Session, | | | | | | | including | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | multicast | | | | | | | group | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | stination | | | | | | | address | | | | | | | and port | | | | | | | number. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | in case | | | | | | | of Object | | | | | | | Dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | Method | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | Packet | | | | | | | Dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | Method in | | | | | | | Packet | | | | | | | Proxy | | | | | | | Mode. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Wr | | | | | | | ite-Only: | | | | | | | true | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | mbr | BitRate | M | 1 | The | | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | | bit rate | | | | | | | for this | | | | | | | MBS | | | | | | | Dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | Session | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Wr | | | | | | | ite-Only: | | | | | | | true | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | maxDelay | Packet | O | 0..1 | The | | | | DelBudget | | | maximum | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | nd-to-end | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | that is | | | | | | | tolerated | | | | | | | for this | | | | | | | MBS | | | | | | | Dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | Session | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | MBS | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plication | | | | | | | Provider | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Wr | | | | | | | ite-Only: | | | | | | | true | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | o | O | C | 0..1 | A | | | bjDistrib | bjDistrib | | | dditional | | | utionData | utionData | | | MBS | | | | | | | Dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | Session | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | arameters | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | Object | | | | | | | Dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | Method | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | p | P | C | 0..1 | A | | | ktDistrib | ktDistrib | | | dditional | | | utionData | utionData | | | MBS | | | | | | | Dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | Session | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | arameters | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | Packet | | | | | | | Dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | Method | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | fecIn | FECConfig | O | 0..1 | Conf | | | formation | | | | iguration | | | | | | | for FEC | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | formation | | | | | | | added by | | | | | | | the MBSTF | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | protect | | | | | | | this MBS | | | | | | | Dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | Session. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | ds | string | O | 0..1 | DSCP | | | cpMarking | | | | Marking | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | applied | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | outgoing | | | | | | | traffic. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | It shall | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | encoded | | | | | | | as two | | | | | | | octet | | | | | | | string in | | | | | | | he | | | | | | | xadecimal | | | | | | | repres | | | | | | | entation. | | | | | | | The first | | | | | | | octet | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | contain | | | | | | | the DSCP | | | | | | | value in | | | | | | | the IPv4 | | | | | | | Type-o | | | | | | | f-Service | | | | | | | or the | | | | | | | IPv6 | | | | | | | Traf | | | | | | | fic-Class | | | | | | | field and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | second | | | | | | | octet | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | contain | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | To | | | | | | | S/Traffic | | | | | | | Class | | | | | | | mask | | | | | | | field, | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | set to | | | | | | | \"0xFC\". | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Wr | | | | | | | ite-Only: | | | | | | | true | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | mbsSecuri | MbsSecuri | O | 0..1 | This IE | | | tyContext | tyContext | | | may be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | security | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | rotection | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | applied | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | MBS | | | | | | | Session. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | When | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | it shall | | | | | | | contain: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - the | | | | | | | security | | | | | | | context | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | ontaining | | | | | | | MBS | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | | Key | | | | | | | (MSK), | | | | | | | MSK | | | | | | | lifetime | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | corr | | | | | | | esponding | | | | | | | key IDs | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | MBSF. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - the | | | | | | | security | | | | | | | context | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | ontaining | | | | | | | MBS | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | | Key | | | | | | | (MSK), | | | | | | | MBS | | | | | | | Traffic | | | | | | | Key (MTK) | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | corr | | | | | | | esponding | | | | | | | key IDs | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | MBSTF. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Either | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | bjDistrib | | | | | | | utionData | | | | | | | IE or the | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | ktDistrib | | | | | | | utionData | | | | | | | IE shall | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | in a | | | | | | | request/ | | | | | | | response. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
Editor\'s Note: Inclusion of Security Context is FFS and depends on alignment
between SA3 and SA4.
##### 6.1.6.2.5 Type: ObjDistributionData
Table 6.1.6.2.5-1: Definition of type ObjDistributionData
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +===========+===========+===+===========+===========+===========+ | o | O | M | 1 | Operating | | | bjDistrib | bjDistrib | | | Mode for | | | utionOper | utionOper | | | the | | | atingMode | atingMode | | | Object | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | method | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | ob | Ob | M | 1 | Indicates | | | jAcquisit | jAcquisit | | | whether | | | ionMethod | ionMethod | | | the | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | bjects(s) | | | | | | | are to be | | | | | | | pushed | | | | | | | into the | | | | | | | MBSTF by | | | | | | | the MBS | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plication | | | | | | | Provider | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | whether | | | | | | | they are | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | pulled | | | | | | | from the | | | | | | | MBS | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plication | | | | | | | Provider | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | MBSTF | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | obj | a | C | 1..N | R | | | Acquisiti | rray(Uri) | | | epresents | | | onIdsPull | | | | the | | | | | | | URL(s) | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | expressed | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | path(es) | | | | | | | relative | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | object | | | | | | | ingest | | | | | | | base URL | | | | | | | provided | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | \" | | | | | | | objIngest | | | | | | | BaseUrl\" | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute) | | | | | | | pointing | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | root | | | | | | | object(s) | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | pulled by | | | | | | | the MBSTF | | | | | | | and then | | | | | | | di | | | | | | | stributed | | | | | | | during | | | | | | | this MBS | | | | | | | Dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | Session. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | provided, | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | vailable. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | See | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | lause 6.1 | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | 3GP | | | | | | | P TS 26.5 | | | | | | | 02 [17] | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2, | | | | | | | NOTE 5) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | ob | Uri | C | 0..1 | R | | | jAcquisit | | | | epresents | | | ionIdPush | | | | the URL | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | expressed | | | | | | | as a path | | | | | | | relative | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | object | | | | | | | ingest | | | | | | | base URL | | | | | | | provided | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | \" | | | | | | | objIngest | | | | | | | BaseUrl\" | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute) | | | | | | | pointing | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | root | | | | | | | object(s) | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | pushed to | | | | | | | the MBSTF | | | | | | | and then | | | | | | | di | | | | | | | stributed | | | | | | | during | | | | | | | this MBS | | | | | | | Dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | Session. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | provided, | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | vailable. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | See | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | lause 6.1 | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | 3GP | | | | | | | P TS 26.5 | | | | | | | 02 [17] | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2, | | | | | | | NOTE 5) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | objInge | Uri | C | 0..1 | R | | | stBaseUrl | | | | epresents | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | object | | | | | | | ingest | | | | | | | base URL. | | | | | | | It | | | | | | | contains | | | | | | | a URL | | | | | | | prefix | | | | | | | that is | | | | | | | replaced | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | object | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | base URL | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | MBSTF to | | | | | | | derive | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | object | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | URI prior | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | ingested | | | | | | | objects. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | object | | | | | | | Dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | base URL | | | | | | | (within | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | \"objDist | | | | | | | ributionB | | | | | | | aseUrl\") | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | present. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 3, | | | | | | | NOTE 4) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | objD | Uri | O | 0..1 | R | | | istributi | | | | epresents | | | onBaseUrl | | | | the | | | | | | | object | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | base URL. | | | | | | | It | | | | | | | contains | | | | | | | a URL | | | | | | | prefix | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | which the | | | | | | | MBSTF | | | | | | | replaces | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | object | | | | | | | ingest | | | | | | | base URL | | | | | | | to derive | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | object | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | URL prior | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | ingested | | | | | | | objects. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 4) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | void. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | Either | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | \"objAc | | | | | | | quisition | | | | | | | IdsPull\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | or the | | | | | | | \"objAc | | | | | | | quisition | | | | | | | IdsPush\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | provided, | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | vailable. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | When the | | | | | | | \"objA | | | | | | | cquisitio | | | | | | | nMethod\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | is set to | | | | | | | \"PULL\", | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | provided | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | MBSF | | | | | | | during | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | creation | | | | | | | and/or | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | pdate/mod | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | MBS | | | | | | | Dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | Session | | | | | | | (if | | | | | | | received | | | | | | | from the | | | | | | | AF). When | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | \"objA | | | | | | | cquisitio | | | | | | | nMethod\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | is set to | | | | | | | \"PUSH\", | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | provided | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | MBSTF in | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | creation | | | | | | | and/or | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | pdate/mod | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | MBS | | | | | | | Dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | Session. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | | When the | | | | | | | \"objDis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | BaseUrl\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | omitted, | | | | | | | nothing | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | replace | | | | | | | d/removed | | | | | | | from the | | | | | | | object | | | | | | | ingest | | | | | | | URL when | | | | | | | deriving | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | object | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | URL. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: | | | | | | | For group | | | | | | | message | | | | | | | delivery, | | | | | | | the NEF | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | ransforms | | | | | | | the group | | | | | | | message | | | | | | | payload | | | | | | | into a | | | | | | | file, so | | | | | | | as an | | | | | | | object to | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | ingested | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | di | | | | | | | stributed | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | MBSTF | | | | | | | using | | | | | | | PULL or | | | | | | | PUSH | | | | | | | Method as | | | | | | | specified | | | | | | | in 3GPP | | | | | | | TS 23.247 | | | | | | | [15]. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 6.1.6.2.6 Type: PktDistributionData
Table 6.1.6.2.6-1: Definition of type PktDistributionData
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
pktDistributionOperatingMode PktDistributionOperatingMode M 1 Operating Mode
for the Packet distribution method  
pktIngestMethod PktIngestMethod C 1 Indicates whether packets are ingested
using multicast or unicast ingest. It shall be present if operating mode of
the packet distribution method is set to \"PACKET_PROXY\".  
mbStfIngestAddr MbStfIngestAddr M 1 The endpoint addresses used by the MBS
Application Provider and MBSTF to establish a connection at reference point
Nmb8 prior to the commencement of MBS User Data Ingest Session.
##### 6.1.6.2.7 Type: StatusSubscribeReqData
Table 6.1.6.2.7-1: Definition of type StatusSubscribeReqData
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
subscription DistSessionSubscription M 1 Subscription to be created
##### 6.1.6.2.8 Type: StatusSubscribeRspData
Table 6.1.6.2.8-1: Definition of type StatusSubscribeReqData
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
subscription DistSessionSubscription M 1 Subscription created  
reportList DistSessionEventReportList C 0..1 Immediate event reports, if
requested in the request and if corresponding information is available.
##### 6.1.6.2.9 Type: StatusNotifyReqData
Table 6.1.6.2.9-1: Definition of type StatusSubscribeReqData
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
reportList DistSessionEventReportList M 1 Reported MBS session events
##### 6.1.6.2.10 Type: DistSessionSubscription
Table 6.1.6.2.10-1: Definition of type DistSessionSubscription
+---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | | name | | | | | +===============+===============+===+=============+===============+ | eventList | a | M | 1..N | List of MBS | | | rray(DistSess | | | distribution | | | ionEventType) | | | session | | | | | | events | | | | | | subscribed | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | notifyUri | Uri | M | 1 | URI where the | | | | | | NF service | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | requests to | | | | | | receive | | | | | | n | | | | | | otifications. | | | | | | | | | | | | Write-Only: | | | | | | true | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | notify | string | O | 0..1 | Notification | | CorrelationId | | | | Correlation | | | | | | ID | | | | | | | | | | | | Write-Only: | | | | | | true | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | expiryTime | DateTime | O | 0..1 | When present | | | | | | in the | | | | | | subscription | | | | | | creation | | | | | | request, it | | | | | | shall | | | | | | indicate the | | | | | | time up to | | | | | | which the | | | | | | subscription | | | | | | is desired to | | | | | | be kept | | | | | | active and | | | | | | after which | | | | | | the | | | | | | subscribed | | | | | | events shall | | | | | | stop | | | | | | generating | | | | | | n | | | | | | otifications. | | | | | | | | | | | | When present | | | | | | in a | | | | | | subscription | | | | | | response, it | | | | | | shall | | | | | | indicate the | | | | | | expiry time | | | | | | after which | | | | | | the | | | | | | subscription | | | | | | becomes | | | | | | invalid. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | nfcInstanceId | NfInstanceId | C | 0..1 | NF Instance | | | | | | ID of the NF | | | | | | Service | | | | | | Consumer | | | | | | | | | | | | This IE shall | | | | | | be present if | | | | | | available. | | | | | | | | | | | | Write-Only: | | | | | | true | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | distSe | Uri | C | 0..1 | This IE shall | | ssionSubscUri | | | | be present in | | | | | | the response | | | | | | to an MBS | | | | | | distribution | | | | | | session | | | | | | creation | | | | | | request that | | | | | | includes a | | | | | | subscription | | | | | | to events | | | | | | about the MBS | | | | | | session and | | | | | | the | | | | | | subscription | | | | | | was created | | | | | | successfully. | | | | | | When present, | | | | | | it shall | | | | | | contain the | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | individual | | | | | | subscription | | | | | | resource. | | | | | | | | | | | | Read-Only: | | | | | | true | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE) | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | NOTE: When an | | | | | | MBS | | | | | | distribution | | | | | | session | | | | | | status | | | | | | subscription | | | | | | is created | | | | | | separately | | | | | | (i.e. after) | | | | | | an MBS | | | | | | distribution | | | | | | session | | | | | | creation, the | | | | | | Location | | | | | | header | | | | | | returned in | | | | | | the MBS | | | | | | distribution | | | | | | session | | | | | | status | | | | | | subscription | | | | | | creation | | | | | | response | | | | | | contains the | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | created | | | | | | subscription. | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+
##### 6.1.6.2.11 Type: DistSessionEventReportList
Table 6.1.6.2.11-1: Definition of type DistSessionEventReportList
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +===========+===========+===+===========+===========+===========+ | eventR | ar | M | 1..N | List of | | | eportList | ray(DistS | | | MBS | | | | essionEve | | | dis | | | | ntReport) | | | tribution | | | | | | | session | | | | | | | events to | | | | | | | report | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | n | string | C | 0..1 | Not | | | otifyCorr | | | | ification | | | elationId | | | | Co | | | | | | | rrelation | | | | | | | ID. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This IE | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if a | | | | | | | Not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | rrelation | | | | | | | ID is | | | | | | | available | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | subs | | | | | | | cription. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 6.1.6.2.12 Type: DistSessionEventReport
Table 6.1.6.2.12-1: Definition of type DistSessionEventReport
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
eventType DistSessionEventType M 1 MBS distribution session event type  
timeStamp DateTime C 0..1 This IE shall contain the time at which the event is
generated. This IE should be present, if available.  
mbsSecurityContext MbsSecurityContext C 0..1 This IE shall be present if the
eventType IE indicates \"MTK_UPDATE\" or \"MSK_REQUEST\".
Editor\'s Note: Inclusion of Security Context is FFS and depends on alignment
between SA3 and SA4.
##### 6.1.6.2.13 Type: UpTrafficFlowInfo
Table 6.1.6.2.13-1: Definition of type UpTrafficFlowInfo
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
destIpAddr IpAddr M 1 Multicast group destination Address  
portNumber Uinteger M 1 Port Number
##### 6.1.6.2.14 Type: MbStfIngestAddr
Table 6.1.6.2.14-1: Definition of type MbStfIngestAddr
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +===========+===========+===+===========+===========+===========+ | afEgre | Tunn | C | 0..1 | AF side | | | ssTunAddr | elAddress | | | endpoint | | | | | | | address | | | | | | | and port | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | esta | | | | | | | blishment | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | unicast | | | | | | | tunnel at | | | | | | | reference | | | | | | | point | | | | | | | Nmb8 | | | | | | | prior to | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | com | | | | | | | mencement | | | | | | | of MBS | | | | | | | User Data | | | | | | | Ingest | | | | | | | Session. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The MBSTF | | | | | | | shall use | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | formation | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | validate | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | source IP | | | | | | | address | | | | | | | and port | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | incoming | | | | | | | packets | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | ertaining | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | MBS User | | | | | | | Data | | | | | | | Ingest | | | | | | | Session | | | | | | | from the | | | | | | | MBS | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plication | | | | | | | Provider. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This IE | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | included | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | method is | | | | | | | used and | | | | | | | when the | | | | | | | operating | | | | | | | mode is | | | | | | | set to | | | | | | | \"PACKET | | | | | | | _FORWARD | | | | | | | _ONLY\", | | | | | | | or when | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | operating | | | | | | | mode is | | | | | | | set to | | | | | | | \"PACKET | | | | | | | _PROXY\" | | | | | | | while the | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | ingest | | | | | | | method is | | | | | | | set to | | | | | | | \"U | | | | | | | NICAST\". | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | only in | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | Create | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | over the | | | | | | | Nmb2, | | | | | | | Nmb10 and | | | | | | | Nmb5 | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terfaces. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Wr | | | | | | | ite-Only: | | | | | | | true | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | m | Tunn | C | 0..1 | MBSTF | | | bStfIngre | elAddress | | | side | | | ssTunAddr | | | | endpoint | | | | | | | address | | | | | | | and port | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | esta | | | | | | | blishment | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | unicast | | | | | | | tunnel at | | | | | | | reference | | | | | | | point | | | | | | | Nmb8 | | | | | | | prior to | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | com | | | | | | | mencement | | | | | | | of MBS | | | | | | | User Data | | | | | | | Ingest | | | | | | | Session. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | It is | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | pplicable | | | | | | | only if | | | | | | | operating | | | | | | | mode of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | method is | | | | | | | set to | | | | | | | \"PACKET | | | | | | | _FORWARD | | | | | | | _ONLY\". | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | only in | | | | | | | either | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | Create | | | | | | | (or | | | | | | | Retrieve) | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | over the | | | | | | | Nmb2, | | | | | | | Nmb10 and | | | | | | | Nmb5 | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terfaces, | | | | | | | or a | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | over the | | | | | | | Nmb10 and | | | | | | | Nmb5 | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terfaces. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | ead-Only: | | | | | | | true | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | afSsm | ExtSsm | C | 0..1 | AF side | | | | | | | Source | | | | | | | specific | | | | | | | multicast | | | | | | | address | | | | | | | and port | | | | | | | to which | | | | | | | MBSTF | | | | | | | issues an | | | | | | | IGMP Join | | | | | | | to ingest | | | | | | | multicast | | | | | | | UDP/IP | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | atagrams. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | It is | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | pplicable | | | | | | | only if | | | | | | | operating | | | | | | | mode of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | method is | | | | | | | set to | | | | | | | \"PACKET | | | | | | | _PROXY\" | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | ingest | | | | | | | method is | | | | | | | set to | | | | | | | \"MUL | | | | | | | TICAST\". | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | only in | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | Create | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | over the | | | | | | | Nmb2, | | | | | | | Nmb10 and | | | | | | | Nmb5 | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terfaces. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Wr | | | | | | | ite-Only: | | | | | | | true | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | mbStfL | Tunn | C | 0..1 | MBSTF | | | istenAddr | elAddress | | | side | | | | | | | endpoint | | | | | | | address | | | | | | | and port | | | | | | | for to | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | unicast- | | | | | | | addressed | | | | | | | UDP/IP | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | atagrams. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | It is | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | pplicable | | | | | | | only if | | | | | | | operating | | | | | | | mode of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | tribution | | | | | | | method is | | | | | | | set to | | | | | | | \"PACKET | | | | | | | _PROXY\" | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | ingest | | | | | | | method is | | | | | | | set to | | | | | | | \"U | | | | | | | NICAST\". | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | only in | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | Create | | | | | | | (or | | | | | | | Retrieve) | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | over the | | | | | | | Nmb2, | | | | | | | Nmb10 and | | | | | | | Nmb5 | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terfaces, | | | | | | | or a | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | over the | | | | | | | Nmb10 and | | | | | | | Nmb5 | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terfaces. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | ead-Only: | | | | | | | true | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 6.1.6.2.15 Type: ExtSsm
Table 6.1.6.2.15-1: Definition of type ExtSsm
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
ssm Ssm M 1 Source Specific Multicast Address consisting of multicast source
IP address and the destination multicast address  
portNumber Uinteger M 1 Source Port
#### 6.1.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations
##### 6.1.6.3.1 Introduction {#introduction-5}
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced
from data structures defined in the previous clauses.
##### 6.1.6.3.2 Simple data types
None
##### 6.1.6.3.3 Enumeration: DistSessionState
The enumeration DistSessionState represents the current state of the MBS
Distribution Session. It shall comply with the values defined in table
6.1.6.3.3-1.
Table 6.1.6.3.3-1: Enumeration DistSessionState
Enumeration value Description Applicability
* * *
\"INACTIVE\" Distribution Session in Inactive  
\"ESTABLISHED\" Distribution Session in Established  
\"ACTIVE\" Distribution Session in Active  
\"DEACTIVATING\" Distribution Session in Released
##### 6.1.6.3.4 Enumeration: ObjDistributionOperatingMode
The enumeration ObjDistributionOperatingMode defines the mode of data
ingestion for Object distribution method. It shall comply with the values
defined in table 6.1.6.3.4-1.
Table 6.1.6.3.4-1: Enumeration ObjDistributionOperatingMode
Enumeration value Description Applicability
* * *
\"SINGLE\" Each object ingested by the MBSTF is distributed once  
\"COLLECTION\" A set of objects described by a manifest is ingested by the
MBSTF and distributed once  
\"CAROUSEL\" A set of one or more objects described by a manifest is ingested
by the MBSTF and distributed according to a repetition pattern specified in
the manifest  
\"STREAMING\" A sequence of objects is ingested by the MBSTF and streamed in
real time
##### 6.1.6.3.5 Enumeration: ObjAcquisitionMethod
The enumeration ObjAcquisitionMethod indicates whether the objects(s) are to
be pushed into the MBSTF by the MBS Application Provider or whether they are
to be pulled from the MBS Application Provider by the MBSTF. It shall comply
with the values defined in table 6.1.6.3.5-1.
Table 6.1.6.3.5-1: Enumeration ObjAcquisitionMethod
Enumeration value Description Applicability
* * *
\"PULL\" MBSTF Pulls objects from AF/AS  
\"PUSH\" AF/AS Pushes objects into MBSTF
##### 6.1.6.3.6 Enumeration: PktDistributionOperatingMode
The enumeration PktDistributionOperatingMode defines the mode of data
ingestion for Packet distribution method. It shall comply with the values
defined in table 6.1.6.3.6-1.
Table 6.1.6.3.6-1: Enumeration PktDistributionOperatingMode
Enumeration value Description Applicability
* * *
\"PACKET_PROXY\" The payloads of UDP packets ingested by the MBSTF are
forwarded to the MB-UPF in new UDP packets (Layer 4 proxying)  
\"PACKET_FORWARD_ONLY\" The payloads of IP packets ingested by the MBSTF are
forwarded to the MB-UPF in new IP packets (Layer 3 proxying)
##### 6.1.6.3.7 Enumeration: DistSessionEventType
The enumeration DistSessionEventType defines the status of the MBS
distribution session that NF consumer wants to subscribe to. It shall comply
with the values defined in table 6.1.6.3.7-1.
Table 6.1.6.3.7-1: Enumeration DistSessionEventType
Enumeration value Description Applicability
* * *
\"DATA_INGEST_FAILURE\" MBSTF failed to ingest data from AF/AS  
\"SESSION_DEACTIVATED\" Session released in MBSTF  
\"SESSION_ACTIVATED\" Delivery started towards MB-UPF  
\"SERVICE_MANAGEMENT_FAILURE\" MBS distribution session failed to start
Editor\'s Note: Inclusion of Security Context Events is FFS and depends on
alignment between SA3 and SA4.
##### 6.1.6.3.8 Enumeration: PktIngestMethod
The enumeration PktIngestMethod defines the mode of data ingestion for Packet
distribution method. It shall comply with the values defined in table
6.1.6.3.8-1.
Table 6.1.6.3.8-1: Enumeration PktIngestMethod
Enumeration value Description Applicability
* * *
\"MULTICAST\" Multicast Ingest Mode  
\"UNICAST\" Unicast Ingest Mode
#### 6.1.6.4 Data types describing alternative data types or combinations of
data types
None
#### 6.1.6.5 Binary data
None
### 6.1.7 Error Handling
#### 6.1.7.1 General
For the Nmbstf-distsession API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as
specified in clause 4.8 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]. Protocol errors and application
errors specified in table 5.2.7.2-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] shall be supported
for an HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes are specified as
mandatory for that HTTP method in table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the
Nmbstf-distsession API.
#### 6.1.7.2 Protocol Errors
No specific procedures for the Nmbstf-distsession service are specified.
#### 6.1.7.3 Application Errors
The application errors defined for the Nmbstf-distsession service are listed
in Table 6.1.7.3-1.
Table 6.1.7.3-1: Application errors
Application Error HTTP status code Description
* * *
### 6.1.8 Feature negotiation
The optional features in table 6.1.8-1 are defined for the Nmbstf-distsession
API. They shall be negotiated using the extensibility mechanism defined in
clause 6.6 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
Table 6.1.8-1: Supported Features
Feature number Feature Name Description
* * *
### 6.1.9 Security
As indicated in 3GPP TS 33.501 [8] and 3GPP TS 29.500 [4], the access to the
Nmbstf-distsession API may be authorized by means of the OAuth2 protocol (see
IETF RFC 6749 [9]), based on local configuration, using the \"Client
Credentials\" authorization grant, where the NRF (see 3GPP TS 29.510 [10])
plays the role of the authorization server.
If OAuth2 is used, an NF Service Consumer, prior to consuming services offered
by the Nmbstf-distsession API, shall obtain a \"token\" from the authorization
server, by invoking the Access Token Request service, as described in 3GPP TS
29.510 [10], clause 5.4.2.2.
NOTE: When multiple NRFs are deployed in a network, the NRF used as
authorization server is the same NRF that the NF Service Consumer used for
discovering the Nmbstf-distsession service.
The Nmbstf-distsession API defines a single scope \"nmbstf-distsession \" for
the entire service, and it does not define any additional scopes at resource
or operation level.
### 6.1.10 HTTP redirection
An HTTP request may be redirected to a different MBSTF service instance within
the same MBSTF, or to a different MBSTF of an MBSTF set, when using direct or
indirect communications (see 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).
An SCP that reselects a different MBSTF producer instance will return the NF
Instance ID of the new MBSTF producer instance in the 3gpp-Sbi-Producer-Id
header, as specified in clause 6.10.3.4 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
If an MBSTF redirects a service request to a different MBSTF using an 307
Temporary Redirect or 308 Permanent Redirect status code, the identity of the
new MBSTF towards which the service request is redirected shall be indicated
in the 3gpp-Sbi-Target-Nf-Id header of the 307 Temporary Redirect or 308
Permanent Redirect response as specified in clause 6.10.9.1 of 3GPP TS 29.500
[4].
###### ## Annex A (normative): OpenAPI specification
# A.1 General
This Annex specifies the formal definition of the API(s) defined in the
present specification. It consists of OpenAPI specifications in YAML format.
This Annex takes precedence when being discrepant to other parts of the
specification with respect to the encoding of information elements and methods
within the API(s).
NOTE 1: The semantics and procedures, as well as conditions, e.g. for the
applicability and allowed combinations of attributes or values, not expressed
in the OpenAPI definitions but defined in other parts of the specification
also apply.
Informative copies of the OpenAPI specification files contained in this 3GPP
Technical Specification are available on a Git-based repository that uses the
GitLab software version control system (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [5] clause 5.3.1
and 3GPP TR 21.900 [7] clause 5B).
# A.2 Nmbstf_DistSession API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
title: Nmbstf-distsession
version: 1.0.4
description: \|
MBSTF Distribution Session Service.
© 2023, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.581 V17.4.0; 5G System; MBSDistribution Service.
url: https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.581/
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/nmbstf-distsession/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in clause 4.4 of 3GPP TS 29.501
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- nmbstf-distsession
paths:
/dist-sessions:
post:
summary: Create
tags:
\- MBS distribution sessions collection
operationId: Create
requestBody:
description: >
Representation of the MBS distribution session to be created in the MBSTF
Creates an individual MBS distribution session resource in the MBSTF.
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/CreateReqData\'
responses:
\'201\':
description: >
Successful creation of an MBS session
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/CreateRspData\'
headers:
Location:
description: >
\'Contains the URI of the newly created resource, according to the structure:
{apiRoot}/nmbstf-distsession/\/dist-sessions/{distSessionRef}\'
required: true
schema:
type: string
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'502\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/502\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/dist-sessions/{distSessionRef}:
patch:
summary: Updates an individual MBS distribution session resource in the MBSTF.
tags:
\- Individual MBS distribution session
operationId: Update
parameters:
\- name: distSessionRef
in: path
required: true
description: Unique ID of the MBS distribution session
schema:
type: string
requestBody:
description: Data within the Update Request
required: true
content:
application/json-patch+json:
schema:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/PatchItem\'
minItems: 1
responses:
\'204\':
description: >
Successful modification of the MBS distribution session without content in the
response.
\'200\':
description: >
Successful response containing the updated representation of Distribution
Session.
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DistSession\'
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'502\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/502\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
delete:
summary: Deletes an individual MBS distribution session resource in the MBSTF.
tags:
\- Individual MBS distribution session
operationId: Destroy
parameters:
\- name: distSessionRef
in: path
required: true
description: Unique ID of the MBS distribution session
schema:
type: string
responses:
\'204\':
description: >
Successful release of the MBS distribution session without content in the
response.
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'502\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/502\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
get:
summary: Retrieves an individual MBS distribution session resource in the
MBSTF.
tags:
\- Individual MBS distribution session
operationId: Retrieve
parameters:
\- name: distSessionRef
in: path
required: true
description: Unique ID of the MBS distribution session
schema:
type: string
responses:
\'200\':
description: successful retrieval of MBS distribution session parameters
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DistSession\'
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'502\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/502\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/dist-sessions/{distSessionRef}/subscriptions:
post:
summary: StatusSubscribe creating a subscription
tags:
\- Subscriptions collection for MBS distribution session
operationId: StatusSubscribe
parameters:
\- name: distSessionRef
in: path
required: true
description: Unique ID of the MBS distribution session
schema:
type: string
requestBody:
description: Data within the StatusSubscribe Request
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/StatusSubscribeReqData\'
responses:
\'201\':
description: Data within a successful StatusSubscribe Response
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/StatusSubscribeRspData\'
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'502\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/502\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
callbacks:
statusNotification:
\'{\$request.body#/notifUri}\':
post:
parameters:
\- name: Content-Encoding
in: header
description: Content-Encoding, described in IETF RFC 7231
schema:
type: string
requestBody:
description: Notification Payload
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/StatusNotifyReqData\'
responses:
\'204\':
description: Expected response to a successful callback processing
headers:
Accept-Encoding:
description: Accept-Encoding, described in IETF RFC 7694
schema:
type: string
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'501\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/501\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/dist-sessions/{distSessionRef}/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}:
delete:
summary: StatusUnSubscribe to unsubscribe from the Status Subscription
tags:
\- Individual Subscription for an MBS session
operationId: StatusUnSubscribe
parameters:
\- name: subscriptionId
in: path
required: true
description: Unique ID of the subscription
schema:
type: string
\- name: distSessionRef
in: path
required: true
description: Unique ID of the MBS distribution session
schema:
type: string
responses:
\'204\':
description: Successful deletion of the subscription
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'502\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/502\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
patch:
summary: StatusSubscribe to modify (update or renew) an individual
subscription
tags:
\- Individual Subscription for an MBS distribution session
operationId: StatusSubscribeMod
parameters:
\- name: subscriptionId
in: path
required: true
description: Unique ID of the individual subscription to be modified
schema:
type: string
\- name: distSessionRef
in: path
required: true
description: Unique ID of the MBS distribution session
schema:
type: string
requestBody:
description: Data to be modified in the DistSessionSubscription
required: true
content:
application/json-patch+json:
schema:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/PatchItem\'
minItems: 1
responses:
\'200\':
description: Successful modification of the individual Status Subscription
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DistSessionSubscription\'
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'502\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/502\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{nrfApiRoot}/oauth2/token\'
scopes:
nmbstf-distsession: Access to the nmbstf-distsession API
schemas:
#
# STRUCTURED DATA TYPES
#
CreateReqData:
description: Data within Create Request
type: object
properties:
distSession:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DistSession\'
required:
\- distSession
CreateRspData:
description: Data within Create Response
type: object
properties:
distSession:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DistSession\'
required:
\- distSession
DistSession:
description: Mbs Distribution Session Information
type: object
properties:
distSessionId:
type: string
distSessionState:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DistSessionState\'
mbUpfTunAddr:
writeOnly: true
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/TunnelAddress\'
mbmsGwTunAddr:
writeOnly: true
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/TunnelAddress\'
upTrafficFlowInfo:
writeOnly: true
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UpTrafficFlowInfo\'
mbr:
writeOnly: true
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/BitRate\'
maxDelay:
writeOnly: true
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/PacketDelBudget\'
objDistributionData:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ObjDistributionData\'
pktDistributionData:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PktDistributionData\'
fecInformation:
\$ref:
\'TS29580_Nmbsf_MBSUserDataIngestSession.yaml#/components/schemas/FECConfig\'
dscpMarking:
type: string
writeOnly: true
mbsSecurityContext:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/MbsSecurityContext\'
required:
\- distSessionId
\- distSessionState
\- mbUpfTunAddr
\- mbr
oneOf:
\- required: [ objDistributionData ]
\- required: [ pktDistributionData ]
ObjDistributionData:
description: Info for Object Distribution Method
type: object
properties:
objDistributionOperatingMode:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ObjDistributionOperatingMode\'
objAcquisitionMethod:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ObjAcquisitionMethod\'
objAcquisitionIdsPull:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
minItems: 1
objAcquisitionIdPush:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
objIngestBaseUrl:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
objDistributionBaseUrl:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
required:
\- objDistributionOperatingMode
\- objAcquisitionMethod
not:
required: [ objAcquisitionIdsPull, objAcquisitionIdPush ]
PktDistributionData:
description: Info for Packet Distribution Method
type: object
properties:
pktDistributionOperatingMode:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PktDistributionOperatingMode\'
pktIngestMethod:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PktIngestMethod\'
mbStfIngestAddr:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MbStfIngestAddr\'
required:
\- pktDistributionOperatingMode
\- mbStfIngestAddr
StatusSubscribeReqData:
description: Data within the StatusSubscribe Request
type: object
properties:
subscription:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DistSessionSubscription\'
required:
\- subscription
StatusSubscribeRspData:
description: Data within StatusSubscribe Response
type: object
properties:
subscription:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DistSessionSubscription\'
reportList:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DistSessionEventReportList\'
required:
\- subscription
StatusNotifyReqData:
description: Status Notification
type: object
properties:
reportList:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DistSessionEventReportList\'
required:
\- reportList
DistSessionSubscription:
description: Data within the Status Subscription
type: object
properties:
nfcInstanceId:
writeOnly: true
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/NfInstanceId\'
eventList:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DistSessionEventType\'
minItems: 1
notifyUri:
writeOnly: true
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
notifyCorrelationId:
type: string
writeOnly: true
expiryTime:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
distSessionSubscUri:
readOnly: true
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
required:
\- eventList
\- notifyUri
DistSessionEventReportList:
description: List of Event Reports
type: object
properties:
eventReportList:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DistSessionEventReport\'
minItems: 1
notifyCorrelationId:
type: string
required:
\- eventReportList
DistSessionEventReport:
description: Data related to a specific event
type: object
properties:
eventType:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DistSessionEventType\'
timeStamp:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
mbsSecurityContext:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/MbsSecurityContext\'
required:
\- eventType
UpTrafficFlowInfo:
description: IP Multicast Address and Port Number
type: object
properties:
destIpAddr:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/IpAddr\'
portNumber:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uinteger\'
required:
\- destIpAddr
\- portNumber
MbStfIngestAddr:
description: MBSTF Ingest Addresses
type: object
properties:
afEgressTunAddr:
writeOnly: true
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/TunnelAddress\'
mbStfIngressTunAddr:
readOnly: true
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/TunnelAddress\'
afSsm:
writeOnly: true
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ExtSsm\'
mbStfListenAddr:
readOnly: true
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/TunnelAddress\'
ExtSsm:
description: SSM and Port Number
type: object
properties:
ssm:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Ssm\'
portNumber:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uinteger\'
required:
\- ssm
\- portNumber
#
# SIMPLE DATA TYPES
#
#
# ENUMERATIONS
#
DistSessionState:
description: Current State of MBS distribution session
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- INACTIVE
\- ESTABLISHED
\- ACTIVE
\- DEACTIVATING
\- type: string
ObjDistributionOperatingMode:
description: Mode of data ingestion for Object distribution method
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- SINGLE
\- COLLECTION
\- CAROUSEL
\- STREAMING
\- type: string
ObjAcquisitionMethod:
description: Object Acquisition Method
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- PULL
\- PUSH
\- type: string
PktDistributionOperatingMode:
description: Mode of data ingestion for Packet distribution method
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- PACKET_PROXY
\- PACKET_FORWARD_ONLY
\- type: string
DistSessionEventType:
description: Status Event Type
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- DATA_INGEST_FAILURE
\- SESSION_DEACTIVATED
\- SESSION_ACTIVATED
\- SERVICE_MANAGEMENT_FAILURE
\- type: string
PktIngestMethod:
description: Packet Ingest Method
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- MULTICAST
\- UNICAST
\- type: string
#