# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines 3GPP procedures for Service Name and Port Number
registry management. These procedures should be followed by 3GPP WGs when
requesting new port numbers for the 3GPP allocated port number solution#6,
which is specified in clause 4.4 of the 3GPP TR 29.941 [2].
The present document also maintains a database of the 3GPP allocated port
numbers.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 29.941: \"Study on Port Number Allocation Alternatives for New
3GPP Interfaces\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Void
## 3.3 Void
# 4 3GPP procedures for Service Name and Port Number registry management
## 4.1 General Principles
3GPP CT4 is responsible for the management and maintenance of service name and
port number registry from the sub-range of 101 ports from 65400 to 65500. This
sub-range belongs to the Dynamic/Private Port range [49152 - 65535] and IANA
does not assign port numbers from this range.
Clause 4.4 in 3GPP TR 29.941 [2] specifies solution#6 for 3GPP allocated port
numbers. Solution#6 requires 3GPP CT4 to maintain the 3GPP allocated port
number repository.
## 4.2 3GPP allocated Service Name and Port Number registry
This clause specifies 3GPP procedure for the port number allocation based on
the solution#6 (see clause 4.4 in 3GPP TR 29.941 [2]).
1\. If a 3GPP working group decides to utilize 3GPP allocated port number
solution#6, the working group shall send an LS request to 3GPP CT4. CT4
accepts the request if it addresses the following matters (checklist):
a. The request should be for a protocol, which is supported by intra-domain
interface(s).
b. The request should indicate that the request cannot meet IANA/IETF
requirements for the port number allocation (see Annex C in 3GPP TR 29.941
[2]).
c. The request should indicate that solution#6 is preferable and selected
after evaluating other solutions specified in 3GPP TR 29.941 [2].
2\. LS request to 3GPP CT4 shall also contain the following information:
a. The service name, e.g. x2-ctrl.
b. Applicable transport protocol(s).
c. Short description, e.g. X2-CP.
d. A statement that the new port number will be used across intra-domain
interface \ between nodes \ and \.
e. Work Item Code (WIC) used by the request sender (both the abbreviation and
the numerical value).
3\. 3GPP CT4 shall inform the 3GPP WG that has requested new port number
allocation and also may inform other, relevant 3GPP WGs about the decision.
3GPP CT4 creates respective CR. If CT plenary approves the CR, then the
assigned port number will be added to the Table 5-1 (see clause 5).
# 5 Port Number Database
Table 5-1 represents 3GPP allocated service name and port number registry of
101 ports from 65400 to 65500. 3GPP CT4 maintains the repository.
Table 5-1: Service Name/port number assigned by 3GPP
Service Name Port Number Transport Protocol Description Inter/Intra interface
between entities Requesting WG Registration Date
* * *
SLMP 65400 UDP SLM-C-CP Inter SLM-C hosted UEs CT1 2023-06 (CT#100) MSGin5GMD
65401 UDP MSGin5GMD-UP Inter MSGin5G Client to MSGin5G Server (MSGin5G-1) CT1
2023-06 (CT#100)
#