# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, certain modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
NOTE 1: The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the
context of normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
NOTE 2: The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as
substitutes for \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as
possible, and they are not used in a normative context except in a direct
citation from an external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain
continuity of style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a
referenced document.
**Should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
NOTE 3: The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**Can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
NOTE 4: The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" shall not to be used as
substitutes for \"may\" and \"need not\".
**Will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
NOTE 5: The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 3 protocol and data model for the
Nucmf Service Based Interface. It provides stage 3 protocol definitions and
message flows, and specifies the API for each service offered by the UCMF.
The 5G System stage 2 architecture and procedures are specified in 3GPP TS
23.501 [2] and 3GPP TS 23.502 [3].
The Technical Realization of the Service Based Architecture and the Principles
and Guidelines for Services Definition are specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] and
3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.501: \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services
Definition; Stage 3\".
[6] OpenAPI: \"OpenAPI Specification Version 3.0.0\",
https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.0.
[7] 3GPP TR 21.900: \"Technical Specification Group working methods\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[9] IETF RFC 6749: \"The Oauth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"5G System; Network Function Repository Services; Stage
3\".
[11] IETF RFC 7540: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2 (HTTP/2)\".
[12] IETF RFC 8259: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
[13] IETF RFC 7807: \"Problem Details for HTTP APIs\".
[14] IETF RFC 3986: \"Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax\".
[15] 3GPP TS 29.122: \"T8 reference point for northbound Application
Programming Interfaces (APIs)\".
[16] IETF RFC 7396: \"JSON Merge Patch\".
[17] 3GPP TS 29.571: \"5G System; Common Data Types for Service Based
Interfaces; Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
No symbol is defined in the present document.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AF Application Function
IMEI-TAC Type Allocation Code part of an IMEI
NEF Network Exposure Function
NF Network Function
RACS Radio Capabilities Signalling optimisation
UCMF UE radio Capability Management Function
# 4 UE Radio Capability Provisioning Service
## 4.1 Service Description
### 4.1.1 Overview
The UE radio capability provisioning service, as defined in 3GPP TS 23.502
[3], is provided by the UE radio Capability Management Function (UCMF).
This service:
\- allows NF service consumers to create, update and delete UCMF dictionary
entries for Manufacturer-assigned UE Radio Capability IDs.
### 4.1.2 Service Architecture
The Service Architecture is defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2].
The UE radio capability provisioning service (Nucmf_Provisioning) is part of
the Nucmf service-based interface exhibited by the UCMF.
The known NF service consumers of the Nucmf_Provisioning service are:
\- Network Exposure Function (NEF); and
\- Application Function (AF).
The Nucmf_Provisioning service is provided by the UCMF and consumed by the NEF
and the AF, as shown in figure 4.1.2-1 for the SBI representation model and in
figure 4.1.2-2 for reference point representation model.
Figure 4.1.2-1: Nucmf_Provisioning service Architecture, SBI representation
{width="3.5034722222222223in" height="1.5673611111111112in"}
Figure 4.1.2-2: Nucmf_Provisioning service Architecture, reference point
representation
### 4.1.3 Network Functions
#### 4.1.3.1 UCMF
The UCMF is a functional element that provides service to the NF service
consumer.
It allows NF consumers to provision (create, update and delete) UCMF
dictionary entries for Manufacturer-assigned UE Radio Capability IDs.
#### 4.1.3.2 NF Service Consumers
The Network Exposure Function (NEF):
\- Provision (create, update and delete) UCMF dictionary entries for
Manufacturer-assigned UE Radio Capability IDs to the UCMF, if it receives the
UE Radio Capability information from the untrusted AF.
The Application Function (AF):
\- As the trusted AF, provision (create, update and delete) UCMF dictionary
entries for Manufacturer-assigned UE Radio Capability IDs to the UCMF.
## 4.2 Service Operations
### 4.2.1 Introduction
Service operations defined for the Nucmf_Provisioning Service are shown in
table 4.2.1-1.
_Table 4.2.1-1: Nucmf_Provisioning Service Operations_
* * *
Service Operation Name Description Initiated by Nucmf_Provisioning_Create This
service operation is used by an NF service consumer to create UE radio
capability provisioning resource for Manufacturer-assigned UE Radio Capability
IDs. NF service consumer (e.g. AF, NEF) Nucmf_Provisioning_Update This service
operation is used by an NF service consumer to modify UE radio capability
provisioning resource for Manufacturer-assigned UE Radio Capability IDs. NF
service consumer (e.g. AF, NEF) Nucmf_Provisioning_Delete This service
operation is used by an NF service consumer to remove a UE radio capability
provisioning resource. NF service consumer (e.g. AF, NEF)
* * *
### 4.2.2 Nucmf_Provisioning_Create service operation
#### 4.2.2.1 General
This service operation is used by an NF service consumer to create UE radio
capability provisioning resource for Manufacturer-assigned UE Radio Capability
IDs.
The following procedure using the Nucmf_Provisioning_Create service operation
is supported:
\- creating a UE radio capability provisioning resource.
#### 4.2.2.2 Creating UE radio capability provisioning resource
This procedure is used by the NF service consumer (e.g. NEF) to create a UE
radio capability provisioning resource containing UCMF dictionary entries for
Manufacturer-assigned UE Radio Capability IDs, as defined in 3GPP TS 23.501
[2] and 3GPP TS 23.502 [3].
Figure 4.2.2.2-1: Creating new UE radio capability provisioning resource
To create a UE radio capability provisioning resource, the NF service consumer
shall send an HTTP POST request to the UCMF with: \"{apiRoot}/nucmf-
provisioning/\/provisionings\" as request URI as shown in step 1
of figure 4.2.2.2-1, and the \"RacsData\" data structure as request body. The
\"RacsData\" data type shall contain one or more RACS configurations in the
\"racsConfigs\" attribute which include:
\- a RACS ID in the \"racsId\" attribute;
\- UE radio capability information in the \"racsParamEps\" and/or
\"racsParam5Gs\" attributes; and
\- the related UE model(s) IMEI-TAC value(s) in the \"imeiTacs\" attribute.
Upon reception of the HTTP POST message from the NF service consumer
requesting to create UCMF dictionary entries, the UCMF shall, for each
requested RACS ID, check if there is any existing dictionary entry having the
same RACS ID. If yes, the UCMF shall indicate \"RACS_ID_DUPLICATED\" in the
\"result\" attribute for the requested RACS ID; otherwise if there is no other
error the UCMF shall create a UCMF dictionary entry.
After processing all requested RACS IDs, if at least one UCMF dictionary entry
is successfully provisioned, the UCMF shall create the resource \"Individual
UE radio capability provisioning\" and respond \"201 Created\" as shown in
step 2 of figure 4.2.2.2-1 with the successfully provisioned RACS information,
the UCMF may include RACS report(s) within attribute \"racsReports\" with a
list of RACS ID(s) and the corresponding failure code for which the
provisioning has failed as specified in table 5.16.2.2.3-1 of 3GPP TS 29.122
[15] in the body of the HTTP response; otherwise the UCMF shall respond \"500
Internal Server Error\" and may include the RACS report(s) to indicate failure
details.
### 4.2.3 Nucmf_Provisioning_Update service operation
#### 4.2.3.1 General
This service operation is used by an NF service consumer to modify UE radio
capability provisioning resource for Manufacturer-assigned UE Radio Capability
IDs.
The following procedure using the Nucmf_Provisioning_Update service operation
is supported:
\- modifying an existing UE radio capability provisioning resource.
#### 4.2.3.2 Modifying a UE radio capability provisioning resource
Figure 4.2.3.2-1: Modifying a UE radio capability provisioning resource
In order to modify a UE radio capability provisioning resource, i.e. add new
UCMF dictionary entries, update and/or remove the existing UCMF dictionary
entries for one or more RACS ID(s), the NF service consumer shall send an HTTP
PUT or PATCH request to the UCMF with: \"{apiRoot}/nucmf-
provisioning/\/provisionings/{provisioningId}\" as request URI as
shown in step 1 of figure 4.2.3.2-1, and the \"RacsData\" or \"RacsDataPatch\"
data structure as request body, correspondingly. The \"RacsData\" or
\"RacsDataPatch\" data type shall contain one or more RACS configurations in
the \"racsConfigs\" attribute which include:
\- a RACS ID in the \"racsId\" attribute;
\- UE radio capability information in the \"racsParamEps\" and/or
\"racsParam5Gs\" attributes; and
\- the related UE model(s) IMEI-TAC value(s) in the \"imeiTacs\" attribute.
Upon reception of the HTTP PUT message from the NF service consumer, the UCMF
shall start replacing the existing UE radio capability provisioning resource
and update the corresponding UCMF dictionary entr(ies).
Upon reception of the HTTP PATCH message from the NF service consumer, the
UCMF shall start modifying the existing UE radio capability provisioning
resource:
\- remove RACS ID and its UE radio capability information with a NULL map key
value, and the corresponding UCMF dictionary entry;
\- replace the UE radio capability information for any existing RACS ID in the
resource, and the corresponding UCMF dictionary entry; and/or
\- create a UCMF dictionary entry for any new RACS ID if there is no ID
conflict with other existing resources.
After processing all requested RACS IDs, if at least one UCMF dictionary entry
is successfully provisioned, the UCMF shall respond \"200 OK\" as shown in
step 2 of figure 4.2.3.2-1 with the successfully provisioned RACS information,
the UCMF may include RACS report(s) within attribute \"racsReports\" with a
list of RACS ID(s) and the corresponding failure code for which the
provisioning has failed as specified in table 5.16.2.2.3-1 of 3GPP TS 29.122
[15] in the body of the HTTP response; otherwise the UCMF shall respond \"500
Internal Server Error\" and may include the RACS report(s) to indicate failure
details.
If the feature \"ES3XX\" is supported, and the UCMF determines the received
HTTP PUT or PATCH request needs to be redirected, the UCMF shall send an HTTP
redirect response as specified in clause 6.10.9 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
### 4.2.4 Nucmf_Provisioning_Delete service operation
#### 4.2.4.1 General
This service operation is used by an NF service consumer to remove UE radio
capability provisioning resource for Manufacturer-assigned UE Radio Capability
IDs.
The following procedure using the Nucmf_Provisioning_Delete service operation
is supported:
\- removing an existing UE radio capability provisioning resource.
#### 4.2.4.2 Removing a UE radio capability provisioning resource
Figure 4.2.4.2-1: Removing a UE radio capability provisioning resource
In order to remove a UE radio capability provisioning resource, the NF service
consumer shall send an HTTP DELETE request to the UCMF with:
\"{apiRoot}/nucmf-provisioning/\/provisionings/{provisioningId}\"
as request URI as shown in step 1 of figure 4.2.4.2-1.
Upon successful reception of the HTTP DELETE, the UCMF shall remove the
corresponding resource and the corresponding UCMF dictionary entries, and send
an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response as shown in step 2 of figure 4.2.4.2-1.
If the UCMF cannot successfully fulfil the received HTTP DELETE request due to
the internal error or the error in the HTTP DELETE request, the UCMF shall
send the HTTP error response as specified in clause 5.7.
If the feature \"ES3XX\" is supported, and the UCMF determines the received
HTTP DELETE request needs to be redirected, the UCMF shall send an HTTP
redirect response as specified in clause 6.10.9 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
# 5 Nucmf_Provisioning Service API
## 5.1 Introduction
The UE radio capability provisioning service shall use the Nucmf_Provisioning
API.
The API URI of the Nucmf_Provisioning API shall be:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\**
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the NF service consumer towards
the NF service producer shall have the Resource URI structure defined in
clause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5], i.e.:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\/\**
with the following components:
\- The {apiRoot} shall be set as described in 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
\- The \ shall be \"nucmf-provisioning\".
\- The \ shall be \"v1\".
\- The \ shall be set as described in clause 5.3.
## 5.2 Usage of HTTP
### 5.2.1 General
HTTP/2, IETF RFC 7540 [11], shall be used as specified in clause 5.2 of 3GPP
TS 29.500 [4].
HTTP/2 shall be transported as specified in clause 5.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
The OpenAPI [6] specification of HTTP messages and content bodies for the
Nucmf_Provisioning API is contained in Annex A.
### 5.2.2 HTTP standard headers
#### 5.2.2.1 General
See clause 5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] for the usage of HTTP standard headers.
#### 5.2.2.2 Content type
JSON, IETF RFC 8259 [12], shall be used as content type of the HTTP bodies
specified in the present specification as specified in clause 5.4 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4]. The use of the JSON format shall be signalled by the content type
\"application/json\".
JSON object used in the HTTP PATCH request shall be encoded according to
\"JSON Merge Patch\" and shall be signalled by the content type
\"application/merge-patch+json\", as defined in IETF RFC 7396 [16].
\"Problem Details\" JSON object shall be used to indicate additional details
of the error in a HTTP response body and shall be signalled by the content
type \"application/problem+json\", as defined in IETF RFC 7807 [13].
### 5.2.3 HTTP custom headers
The mandatory HTTP custom header fields specified in clause 5.2.3.2 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4] shall be supported, and the optional HTTP custom header fields
specified in clause 5.2.3.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] may be supported.
In this Release of the specification, no specific custom headers are defined
for the Nucmf_Provisioning API.
## 5.3 Resources
### 5.3.1 Overview
This clause describes the structure for the Resource URIs and the resources
and methods used for the service.
Figure 5.3.1-1 depicts the resource URIs structure for the Nucmf_Provisioning
API.
Figure 5.3.1-1: Resource URI structure of the Nucmf_Provisioning API
Table 5.3.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 5.3.1-1: Resources and methods overview
* * *
Resource name Resource URI HTTP method or custom operation Description UE
radio capability provisionings /provisionings POST Create a UE radio
capability provisioning resource. Individual UE radio capability provisioning
/provisionings/{provisioningId} GET Read an existing UE radio capability
provisioning resource. PUT Modify an existing UE radio capability provisioning
resource. PATCH Modify an existing UE radio capability provisioning resource.
DELETE Remove an existing UE radio capability provisioning resource.
* * *
### 5.3.2 Resource: UE radio capability provisionings (Collection)
#### 5.3.2.1 Description
The UE radio capability provisionings resource represents all the
provisionings that exist in the UE radio capability provisioning service at a
given UCMF instance.
#### 5.3.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nucmf-provisioning/\ /provisionings**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
5.3.2.2-1.
Table 5.3.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Data type Definition apiRoot string See clause 5.1.
* * *
#### 5.3.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
##### 5.3.2.3.1 POST
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
5.3.2.3.1-1.
Table 5.3.2.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the POST method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
5.3.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 5.3.2.3.1-3.
Table 5.3.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description RacsData M 1 Contains information for the
creation of an Individual UE radio capability provisioning resource.
* * *
Table 5.3.2.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Response codes Description RacsData M 1 201 Created
The creation of an Individual UE radio capability provisioning resource is
confirmed and a representation of that resource is returned.
Array(RacsFailureReport) M 1..N 500 Internal Server Error The RACS data for
all RACS IDs were not provisioned successfully. NOTE: The mandatory HTTP error
status codes for the POST method listed in table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500
[4] also apply.
* * *
Table 5.3.2.3.1-4: Headers supported by the 201 Response Code on this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 Contains the URI
of the newly created resource, according to the structure: {apiRoot}/nucmf-
provisioning/\/provisionings/{provisioningId}
* * *
#### 5.3.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.
### 5.3.3 Resource: Individual UE radio capability provisioning (Document)
#### 5.3.3.1 Description
The Individual UE radio capability provisioning resource represents a single
provisioning that exist in the UE radio capability provisioning service at a
given UCMF instance.
#### 5.3.3.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nucmf-provisioning/\
/provisionings/{provisioningId}**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
5.3.3.2-1.
Table 5.3.3.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
+----------------+-----------+---------------------------------------+ | Name | Data type | Definition | +----------------+-----------+---------------------------------------+ | apiRoot | string | See clause 5.1. | +----------------+-----------+---------------------------------------+ | provisioningId | string | Identifies the individual UE radio | | | | capability resource in the UCMF. | | | | | | | | To enable the value to be used as | | | | part of a URI, the string shall only | | | | contain allowed characters according | | | | to the \"lower-with-hyphen\" naming | | | | convention defined in clause 5.1.3 of | | | | 3GPP TS 29.501 [5] and rules for a | | | | path segment defined in | | | | IETF RFC 3986 [14]. | +----------------+-----------+---------------------------------------+
#### 5.3.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
##### 5.3.3.3.1 GET
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
5.3.3.3.1-1.
Table 5.3.3.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
5.3.3.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 5.3.3.3.1-3.
Table 5.3.3.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 5.3.3.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on this
resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | RacsData | M | 1 | 200 OK | A | | | | | | r | | | | | | epresentation | | | | | | of an | | | | | | Individual UE | | | | | | radio | | | | | | capability | | | | | | provisioning | | | | | | resource is | | | | | | returned. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during | | | | | | resource | | | | | | retrieval. | | | | | | | | | | | | Applicable if | | | | | | the feature | | | | | | \"ES3XX\" is | | | | | | supported. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during | | | | | | resource | | | | | | retrieval. | | | | | | | | | | | | Applicable if | | | | | | the feature | | | | | | \"ES3XX\" is | | | | | | supported. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the GET | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in | | | | | | ta | | | | | | ble 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | Red | | | | | | irectResponse | | | | | | data | | | | | | structure may | | | | | | be provided | | | | | | by an SCP | | | | | | (refer to | | | | | | cl | | | | | | ause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS 2 | | | | | | 9.500 [4]). | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 5.3.3.3.1-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | Contains an | | | | | | alternative URI | | | | | | of the resource | | | | | | located in an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | UCMF (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the case | | | | | | where the | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | via a different | | | | | | SCP, refer to | | | | | | clause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [4]. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the UCMF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
Table 5.3.3.3.1-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | Contains an | | | | | | alternative URI | | | | | | of the resource | | | | | | located in an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | UCMF (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the case | | | | | | where the | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | via a different | | | | | | SCP, refer to | | | | | | clause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [4]. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the UCMF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
##### 5.3.3.3.2 PUT
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
5.3.3.3.2-1.
Table 5.3.3.3.2-1: URI query parameters supported by the PUT method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
5.3.3.3.2-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 5.3.3.3.2-3.
Table 5.3.3.3.2-2: Data structures supported by the PUT Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description RacsData M 1 Contains the modification of
an Individual UE radio capability provisioning data.
* * *
Table 5.3.3.3.2-3: Data structures supported by the PUT Response Body on this
resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | RacsData | M | 1 | 200 OK | The | | | | | | Individual UE | | | | | | radio | | | | | | capability | | | | | | provisioning | | | | | | resource is | | | | | | modified and | | | | | | a | | | | | | r | | | | | | epresentation | | | | | | of that | | | | | | resource is | | | | | | returned. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during | | | | | | resource | | | | | | modification. | | | | | | | | | | | | Applicable if | | | | | | the feature | | | | | | \"ES3XX\" is | | | | | | supported. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during | | | | | | resource | | | | | | modification. | | | | | | | | | | | | Applicable if | | | | | | the feature | | | | | | \"ES3XX\" is | | | | | | supported. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Array(RacsF | M | 1..N | 500 Internal | The RACS data | | ailureReport) | | | Server Error | for all RACS | | | | | | IDs were not | | | | | | provisioned | | | | | | successfully. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the PUT | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in | | | | | | ta | | | | | | ble 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | Red | | | | | | irectResponse | | | | | | data | | | | | | structure may | | | | | | be provided | | | | | | by an SCP | | | | | | (refer to | | | | | | cl | | | | | | ause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS 2 | | | | | | 9.500 [4]). | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 5.3.3.3.2-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | Contains an | | | | | | alternative URI | | | | | | of the resource | | | | | | located in an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | UCMF (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the case | | | | | | where the | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | via a different | | | | | | SCP, refer to | | | | | | clause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [4]. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the UCMF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
Table 5.3.3.3.2-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | Contains an | | | | | | alternative URI | | | | | | of the resource | | | | | | located in an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | UCMF (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the case | | | | | | where the | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | via a different | | | | | | SCP, refer to | | | | | | clause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [4]. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the UCMF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
##### 5.3.3.3.3 PATCH
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
5.3.3.3.3-1.
Table 5.3.3.3.2-1: URI query parameters supported by the PATCH method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
5.3.3.3.3-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 5.3.3.3.3-3.
Table 5.3.3.3.3-2: Data structures supported by the PATCH Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description RacsDataPatch M 1 Contains the
modification of an Individual UE radio capability provisioning data.
* * *
Table 5.3.3.3.3-3: Data structures supported by the PATCH Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | RacsData | M | 1 | 200 OK | The | | | | | | Individual UE | | | | | | radio | | | | | | capability | | | | | | provisioning | | | | | | resource is | | | | | | modified and | | | | | | a | | | | | | r | | | | | | epresentation | | | | | | of that | | | | | | resource is | | | | | | returned. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during | | | | | | resource | | | | | | modification. | | | | | | | | | | | | Applicable if | | | | | | the feature | | | | | | \"ES3XX\" is | | | | | | supported. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during | | | | | | resource | | | | | | modification. | | | | | | | | | | | | Applicable if | | | | | | the feature | | | | | | \"ES3XX\" is | | | | | | supported. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Array(RacsF | M | 1..N | 500 Internal | The RACS data | | ailureReport) | | | Server Error | for all RACS | | | | | | IDs were not | | | | | | provisioned | | | | | | successfully. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the PATCH | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in | | | | | | ta | | | | | | ble 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | Red | | | | | | irectResponse | | | | | | data | | | | | | structure may | | | | | | be provided | | | | | | by an SCP | | | | | | (refer to | | | | | | cl | | | | | | ause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS 2 | | | | | | 9.500 [4]). | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 5.3.3.3.3-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | Contains an | | | | | | alternative URI | | | | | | of the resource | | | | | | located in an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | UCMF (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the case | | | | | | where the | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | via a different | | | | | | SCP, refer to | | | | | | clause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [4]. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the UCMF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
Table 5.3.3.3.3-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | Contains an | | | | | | alternative URI | | | | | | of the resource | | | | | | located in an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | UCMF (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the case | | | | | | where the | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | via a different | | | | | | SCP, refer to | | | | | | clause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [4]. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the UCMF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
##### 5.3.3.3.4 DELETE
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
5.3.3.3.4-1.
Table 5.3.3.3.4-1: URI query parameters supported by the DELETE method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
5.3.3.3.4-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 5.3.3.3.4-3.
Table 5.3.3.3.4-2: Data structures supported by the DELETE Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 5.3.3.3.4-3: Data structures supported by the DELETE Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | The | | | | | Content | Individual UE | | | | | | radio | | | | | | capability | | | | | | resource was | | | | | | successfully | | | | | | removed. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during | | | | | | resource | | | | | | removal. | | | | | | | | | | | | Applicable if | | | | | | the feature | | | | | | \"ES3XX\" is | | | | | | supported. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during | | | | | | resource | | | | | | removal. | | | | | | | | | | | | Applicable if | | | | | | the feature | | | | | | \"ES3XX\" is | | | | | | supported. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the | | | | | | DELETE method | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | ta | | | | | | ble 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | Red | | | | | | irectResponse | | | | | | data | | | | | | structure may | | | | | | be provided | | | | | | by an SCP | | | | | | (refer to | | | | | | cl | | | | | | ause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS 2 | | | | | | 9.500 [4]). | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 5.3.3.3.4-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | Contains an | | | | | | alternative URI | | | | | | of the resource | | | | | | located in an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | UCMF (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the case | | | | | | where the | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | via a different | | | | | | SCP, refer to | | | | | | clause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [4]. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the UCMF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
Table 5.3.3.3.4-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | Contains an | | | | | | alternative URI | | | | | | of the resource | | | | | | located in an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | UCMF (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the case | | | | | | where the | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | via a different | | | | | | SCP, refer to | | | | | | clause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [4]. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the UCMF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
## 5.4 Custom Operations without associated resources
No custom operation is defined in this Release of the specification.
## 5.5 Notifications
Notifications are not applicable for the current Release.
## 5.6 Data Model
### 5.6.1 General
This clause specifies the application data model supported by the API.
Table 5.6-1 specifies the data types defined for the Nucmf_Provisioning
service based interface protocol.
Table 5.6-1: Nucmf_Provisioning specific Data Types
* * *
Data type Section defined Description Applicability RacsData 5.6.2.2 UE radio
capability data  
RacsDataPatch 5.6.2.3 UE radio capability data for PATCH request
* * *
Table 5.6-2 specifies data types re-used by the Nucmf_Provisioning service
based interface protocol from other specifications, including a reference to
their respective specifications and when needed, a short description of their
use within the Nucmf_Provisioning service based interface.
Table 5.6-2: Nucmf_Provisioning re-used Data Types
* * *
Data type Reference Comments Applicability ProblemDetails 3GPP TS 29.571 [17]
Used in error responses to provide more detailed information about an error.  
RacsConfiguration 3GPP TS 29.122 [15] Represents the UE radio capability data
configuration.  
RacsConfigurationRm 3GPP TS 29.122 [15] Represents the UE radio capability
data configuration with \"nullable: true\" property.  
RacsFailureReport 3GPP TS 29.122 [15] Represents the report for UE radio
capability data provisioning.  
RedirectResponse 3GPP TS 29.571 [17] Contains redirection related information.
ES3XX SupportedFeatures 3GPP TS 29.571 [17] Used to negotiate the
applicability of the optional features defined in table 5.8-1.
* * *
### 5.6.2 Structured data types
#### 5.6.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines the structures to be used in resource representations.
#### 5.6.2.2 Type: RacsData
This type represents a UE radio capability data provided by the NF service
consumer to the UCMF.
Table 5.6.2.2-1: Definition of type RacsData
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | suppFeat | Supporte | C | 0..1 | Used to | | | | dFeatures | | | negotiate | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | supported | | | | | | | optional | | | | | | | features | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | API as | | | | | | | described | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | clau | | | | | | | se 5.2.7. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | provided | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | POST | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | and in | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | uccessful | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | creation. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | ra | map( | M | 1..N | I | | | csConfigs | RacsConfi | | | dentifies | | | | guration) | | | the | | | | | | | conf | | | | | | | iguration | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | man | | | | | | | ufacturer | | | | | | | specific | | | | | | | UE radio | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | pability. | | | | | | | Each | | | | | | | element | | | | | | | uniquely | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | dentifies | | | | | | | an RACS | | | | | | | conf | | | | | | | iguration | | | | | | | for an | | | | | | | RACS ID | | | | | | | and is | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | dentified | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | map via | | | | | | | the RACS | | | | | | | ID as | | | | | | | key. The | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | include | | | | | | | suc | | | | | | | cessfully | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | ovisioned | | | | | | | RACS | | | | | | | data. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | ra | map( | O | 1..N | Supplied | | | csReports | RacsFailu | | | by the | | | | reReport) | | | UCMF. | | | | | | | Contains | | | | | | | the RACS | | | | | | | IDs for | | | | | | | which the | | | | | | | RACS data | | | | | | | are not | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | ovisioned | | | | | | | succ | | | | | | | essfully. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Any | | | | | | | string | | | | | | | value can | | | | | | | be used | | | | | | | as a key | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | map. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
#### 5.6.2.3 Type: RacsDataPatch
This type represents a UE radio capability data provided by the NF service
consumer to the UCMF.
Table 5.6.2.3-1: Definition of type RacsDataPatch
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability racsConfigs
map(RacsConfigurationRm) O 1..N Identifies the configuration related to
manufacturer specific UE radio capability. Each element uniquely identifies an
RACS configuration for an RACS ID and is identified in the map via the RACS ID
as key.
* * *
### 5.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations
#### 5.6.3.1 Introduction
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced
from data structures defined in the previous clauses.
#### 5.6.3.2 Simple data types
The simple data types defined in table 5.6.3.2-1 shall be supported.
Table 5.6.3.2-1: Simple data types
* * *
Type Name Type Definition Description Applicability
* * *
## 5.7 Error Handling
### 5.7.1 General
For the Nucmf_Provisioning API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as
specified in clause 4.8 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]. Protocol errors and application
errors specified in table 5.2.7.2-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] shall be supported
for an HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes are specified as
mandatory for that HTTP method in table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the
Nucmf_Provisioning API.
### 5.7.2 Protocol Errors
No specific procedures for the Nucmf_Provisioning service are specified.
### 5.7.3 Application Errors
The application errors defined for the Nucmf_Provisioning service are listed
in table 5.7.3-1.
Table 5.7.3-1: Application errors
* * *
Application Error HTTP status code Description
* * *
## 5.8 Feature negotiation
The optional features in table 5.8-1 are defined for the Nucmf_Provisioning
API. They shall be negotiated using the extensibility mechanism defined in
clause 6.6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
Table 5.8-1: Supported Features
* * *
Feature number Feature Name Description 1 ES3XX Extended Support for 3xx
redirections. This feature indicates the support of redirection for any
service operation, according to Stateless NF procedures as specified in
clauses 6.5.3.2 and 6.5.3.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] and according to HTTP
redirection principles for indirect communication, as specified in clause
6.10.9 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
* * *
## 5.9 Security
As indicated in 3GPP TS 33.501 [8] and 3GPP TS 29.500 [4], the access to the
Nucmf_Provisioning API may be authorized by means of the Oauth2 protocol (see
IETF RFC 6749 [9]), based on local configuration, using the \"Client
Credentials\" authorization grant, where the NRF (see 3GPP TS 29.510 [10])
plays the role of the authorization server.
If Oauth2 is used, an NF service consumer, prior to consuming services offered
by the Nucmf_Provisioning API, shall obtain a \"token\" from the authorization
server, by invoking the Access Token Request service, as described in 3GPP TS
29.510 [10], clause 5.4.2.2.
NOTE: When multiple NRFs are deployed in a network, the NRF used as
authorization server is the same NRF that the NF service consumer used for
discovering the Nucmf_Provisioning service.
The Nucmf_Provisioning API defines a single scope \"nucmf-provisioning\" for
the entire service, and it does not define any additional scopes at resource
or operation level.
###### ## Annex A (normative): OpenAPI specification
# A.1 General
This Annex specifies the formal definition of the API(s) defined in the
present specification. It consists of OpenAPI 3.0.0 specifications in YAML
format.
This Annex takes precedence when being discrepant to other parts of the
specification with respect to the encoding of information elements and methods
within the API(s).
NOTE: The semantics and procedures, as well as conditions, e.g. for the
applicability and allowed combinations of attributes or values, not expressed
in the OpenAPI definitions but defined in other parts of the specification
also apply.
Informative copies of the OpenAPI specification files contained in this 3GPP
Technical Specification are available on a Git-based repository that uses the
GitLab software version control system (see clause 5B of the 3GPP TR 21.900
[7] for further information) and clause 5.3.1 of the 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
# A.2 Nucmf_Provisioning API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
title: Nucmf_Provisioning
version: 1.2.0-alpha.2
description: \|
UCMF_Provisioning Service.
© 2023, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: >
3GPP TS 29.675 V18.1.0; User Equipment (UE) radio capability provisioning
service; Stage 3.
url: https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.675/
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/nucmf-provisioning/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in clause 4.4 of 3GPP TS 29.501
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- nucmf-provisioning
paths:
/provisionings:
post:
summary: Create an Individual UE radio capability provisioning
operationId: CreateProvisioning
tags:
\- UE radio capability provisionings (Collection)
requestBody:
description: Create new provisionings for a given SCS/AS.
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/RacsData\'
responses:
\'201\':
description: >
Created. The creation of an Individual UE radio capability provisioning
resource is confirmed and a representation of that resource is returned.
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/RacsData\'
headers:
Location:
description: Contains the URI of the newly created resource.
required: true
schema:
type: string
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
description: The RACS data for all RACS IDs were not provisioned successfully.
content:
application/json:
schema:
type: array
items:
\$ref:
\'TS29122_RacsParameterProvisioning.yaml#/components/schemas/RacsFailureReport\'
minItems: 1
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'502\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/502\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/provisionings/{provisioningId}:
parameters:
\- name: provisioningId
in: path
description: Provisioning ID
required: true
schema:
type: string
get:
summary: Get an Individual UE radio capability provisioning
operationId: GetProvisioning
tags:
\- Individual UE radio capability provisioning (Document)
responses:
\'200\':
description: OK. The provisioning information related to the request URI is
returned.
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/RacsData\'
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'406\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/406\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'502\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/502\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
patch:
summary: Update (PATCH) an Individual UE radio capability provisioning
operationId: UpdateProvisioning
tags:
\- Individual UE radio capability provisioning (Document)
requestBody:
description: Update an existing parameter provisioning.
required: true
content:
application/merge-patch+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/RacsDataPatch\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: >
OK. The Individual UE radio capability provisioning resource is modified
and a representation of that resource is returned.
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/RacsData\'
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
description: The RACS data for all RACS IDs were not provisioned successfully.
content:
application/json:
schema:
type: array
items:
\$ref:
\'TS29122_RacsParameterProvisioning.yaml#/components/schemas/RacsFailureReport\'
minItems: 1
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'502\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/502\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
put:
summary: Replace (PUT) an Individual UE radio capability provisioning
operationId: ReplaceProvisioning
tags:
\- Individual UE radio capability provisioning (Document)
requestBody:
description: Update an existing parameter provisioning.
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/RacsData\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: >
OK. The Individual UE radio capability provisioning resource is modified and a
representation of that resource is returned.
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/RacsData\'
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
description: The RACS data for all RACS IDs were not provisioned successfully.
content:
application/json:
schema:
type: array
items:
\$ref:
\'TS29122_RacsParameterProvisioning.yaml#/components/schemas/RacsFailureReport\'
minItems: 1
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'502\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/502\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
delete:
summary: Remove an Individual UE radio capability provisioning
operationId: RemoveProvisioning
tags:
\- Individual UE radio capability provisioning (Document)
responses:
\'204\':
description: >
No Content. The Individual UE radio capability resource was successfully
removed.
The payload body shall be empty.
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'502\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/502\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{tokenUrl}\'
scopes:
nucmf-provisioning: Access to the Nucmf_Provisioning API
schemas:
RacsData:
description: Represents a UE radio capability data provided by the NF service
consumer.
type: object
properties:
suppFeat:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
racsConfigs:
type: object
additionalProperties:
\$ref:
\'TS29122_RacsParameterProvisioning.yaml#/components/schemas/RacsConfiguration\'
minProperties: 1
description: >
Identifies the configuration related to manufacturer specific UE radio
capability.
Each element uniquely identifies an RACS configuration for an RACS ID and is
identified in the map via the RACS ID as key. The response shall include
successfully provisioned RACS data.
racsReports:
type: object
additionalProperties:
\$ref:
\'TS29122_RacsParameterProvisioning.yaml#/components/schemas/RacsFailureReport\'
minProperties: 1
description: >
Contains the RACS IDs for which the RACS data are not provisioned
successfully. The
failure reason is also included. Any string value can be used as a key of the
map.
readOnly: true
required:
\- racsConfigs
RacsDataPatch:
description: >
Represents a modification of a UE radio capability data provided by the NF
service
consumer.
type: object
properties:
racsConfigs:
type: object
additionalProperties:
\$ref:
\'TS29122_RacsParameterProvisioning.yaml#/components/schemas/RacsConfigurationRm\'
minProperties: 1
description: >
Identifies the configuration related to manufacturer specific UE radio
capability. Each element uniquely identifies an RACS configuration for an RACS
ID
and is identified in the map via the RACS ID as key.
#