# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document identifies deficiencies of the NRF APIs as specified in
3GPP TS 29.510 [2] and studies potential optimization solutions. The document
will focus on the following aspects:
-avoid data storage overhead in the NRF due to many NFs (especially NFs from the same NF set) registering with identical information,
-avoid signalling overhead (both in terms of payload size and number of HTTP requests) due to discovery responses containing lots of duplicate information and due to the number of data change notification sent when duplicated data are changed one by one.
-avoid processing overhead (both at NRF and its consumers) resulting e.g. from signalling overhead.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"Network Function Repository Services; Stage 3\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
void
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
void
# 4 Baseline
## 4.1 General
In order to assist mobile network's needs of service governance (e.g. topology
selection, signalling routing), the NRF API system is designed to support
mechanisms including service registration, discovery, subscription, and
notification. However, in current NRF framework, duplicated network-level
attribute values and UE ranges are separately maintained between different
NFs, and transmissions of full NF profiles are repeatedly performed, resulting
in overhead of data storage, signalling, and processing. See Section 4.2, 4.3,
and 4.4 for details.
## 4.2 Data Storage Overhead
Firstly, in the mobile network, to achieve load balancing and high
availability, it is common that multiple NFs serving the same geographical
region (e.g., NFs within a same NF Set) are assigned by O&M with identical
network-level service attribute values (e.g. TAI-list, DNN). In this case, the
NFs' registration to a same NRF introduces redundant storage of many partially
or fully duplicated NF profiles.
Secondly, current NRF API system maintains UE identifier ranges in NFs,
although the attribute of the ranges is a global concept rather than per-NF's.
In large-scale network, the attribute can contain millions of UEs and achieve
several million bytes, resulting in NFs' storage overhead. Moreover, when
these NFs perform registration, multiple copies of the same ranges will occur
simultaneously in the NRF's storage.
## 4.3 Signalling Overhead
Data size is the first reason for signalling overhead. The current NRF API
system supports only single-layer query view. During registration, discovery
and notification processes, full NF profiles with huge size have to be
submitted or retrieved at one time. Take signalling routing in some large-
scale network as an example, huge full information is provided, containing
millions of UE ranges, leading to huge-size (typically several million bytes)
frame overhead. Moreover, as stated in Section 4.2, these huge NF profiles can
contain a lot of duplicated data, which further makes the overhead
unnecessary.
Transmission range and frequency is another two reasons for signalling
overhead. In current NRF framework, even the tiny change of a subscribed
network element can trigger large-scale notifications. To distribute the full
NF profile to all related subscribers simultaneously, the NRF can easily
trigger a push storm and become a performance bottleneck.
## 4.4 Processing Overhead
The receiving, parsing, and handling of redundant information as stated in
Section 4.2 and 4.3 apparently increase processing overhead. Moreover, when
network elements are pulled up in batches and concurrent registration or
discovery happens, the intensive transmission of many full NF profiles will
make not only the NRF but also NFs suffer from performance fluctuations.
# 5 Key Issues
## 5.1 Key Issue #1: Avoid Duplicate Configuration, Storage and Transmission
of Shareable Data
### 5.1.1 Description of the use case
In existing NF profile stored in the NRF, operator may configure same data
part of the NF profile with same value to multiple NFs, as per network
management requirement.
For example, multiple NFs (e.g. AUSF/UDM/PCF/BSF/CHF) may be configured to
serve same range of UEs and thus be configured with same UE identifier ranges
(e.g. SUPI/GPSI/External ID ranges) in each NF profile. These UE identifier
ranges configured in the NF profile may have large volume, and operator needs
to configure such large volume data to those indicated multiple NFs (e.g. same
type of NFs in a NF Set, or even different type of NFs).
As another example, NFs of an NF set share typically a significant set of
common data. Common information include the authorization parameters
("allowedxxx parameters"), the served PLMN or SNPN, the supported S-NSSAIs,
SCP information, part or all of NF specific data such as amfInfo (e.g. list of
TAIs), udminfo (e.g. subscriber identity ranges), smfinfo (e.g. all
S-NSSAIs/DNNs configuration supported by the SMF set).
Such duplicate data (e.g. UE identifier ranges or NF instance profiles)
introduces complexity to the NRF API and OAM system (e.g. to manage the
configuring, updating, and downloading of duplicate data (e.g. UE identifier
ranges or NF instance profiles). Meanwhile, this duplicate data (e.g. UE
identifier ranges or NF instance profiles) reduces the signaling efficiency of
NRF API, especially when the duplicate data (e.g. UE identifier ranges or NF
instance profiles) have large volume e.g. upper to x million octets.
### 5.1.2 Key issue definition
This key issue will study the following aspects:
\- Which data part in the NF profile can be organized as shared data and used
by multiple NFs and whether such categorization needs to be standardized?
\- How to configure/register shared data (e.g. UE identifier ranges) in the
NRF so that multiple NF profiles can share the same data (e.g. UE identifier
ranges) and avoid duplicate storage/configuration/registration;
\- How to optimize download of shared data (e.g. UE identifier ranges) to the
requesting NF during NF discovery procedure or NF profile change notification
procedure;
\- How to handle the download shared data (e.g. UE identifier ranges) with
large data volume, e.g. upper to x million octets (extremely upper to 16
million octets exceeding the maximum data size of JSON object).
\- How to leverage the NF (Service) Set concept to avoid duplicate
configuration and storage of NF profiles within the NFs belonging to the same
NF set, and to avoid duplicate transmission of NF profiles for NFs belonging
to the same NF set.
\- How the shared data can be obtained by the NRF in case the shared data
corresponding to the shared-data ID is not available in the NRF.
\- How to avoid sending multiple NF profile change notifications from/to NF-
Instances which may or may not be within an NF-Set, when a common
configuration parameter changes in the NF-Profile.
## 5.2 Key Issue #2: Signaling overhead of NF discovery responses between
PLMNs
### 5.2.1 Description of the use case
In the NF discovery response, NRF will return the NF profiles matching the
search criteria indicated by the query parameters of the discovery request,
e.g. all the list of ranges of SUPIs whose profile data is available in the
UDM instance, etc.
Take SUPI as an example.
The AMF carries SUPI as one of the main query parameters in the NF discovery
request, and initiates NF discovery to the NRF to obtain the information of
the UDMs where the SUPI profile is stored. If the query parameters match
successfully, the NRF will return the correct UDMs, and will carry all the
list of ranges of SUPIs whose profile data is available in the UDM instance.
That results in large response messages, even exceeding 2 million octets in
some network deployments.
The AMF completely stores the data in the response message in the cache,
therefore other SUPIs can be searched locally in the subsequent service
discovery procedure, avoiding excessive signaling interaction with the NRF.
However, if the AMF and NRF belong to different PLMNs, the ranges of SUPIs in
the cache of AMF might not work. Because there are relatively few users of
different SUPI accessing the network from different PLMN. Additionally, the
storage costs of saving NF profiles of PLMNs around the world would be high.
In another scenario, when AMF in VPLMN queries SMF in HPLMN, NRF will include
all "taiList" and "taiRangeList" served by the H-SMF in the NF discovery
response message. However, these TAIs are useless for the AMF in VPLMN.
Consequently, these large response messages between different PLMNs might
cause unnecessary signaling overhead and data storage overhead.
It's recommended considering how to simplify these numerous parameters in NF
discovery response of roaming scenarios, e.g., plmnList, sNssais,
perPlmnSnssaiList, nsiList, supiRanges, gpsiRanges, routingIndicators,
externalGroupIdentifiersRanges, internalGroupIdentifiersRanges, suciInfos,
taiList, taiRangeList, dnnList, etc.
### 5.2.2 Key Issue definition
This key issue will study the following aspects:
\- Which parameters of NF discovery responses between PLMNs can be simplified
and how to simplify them.
\- How the NRF processes requests from different PLMNs differently, e.g. AMF
of some PLMNs might need the whole supiRanges UDM served.
\- How the NF processes simplified response from NRF.
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Solution#1: Avoid Duplicate Configuration and Transmission of Shareable
Data
### 6.1.1 Description
The solution is to address the Key Issue #1: Avoid Duplicate Configuration and
Transmission of Shareable Data.
Duplicate configuration may exist in various data types (e.g. UE identifier
ranges) among different NF (or NF service) profiles. Possible shareable data
in NF (or NF service) profile are listed in clause 6.7.
Editor's Note: It is FFS that whether and which data types need to be defined
as standardized shared data types.
To avoid duplicate configuration and transmission of shareable data (e.g. UE
identifier ranges), the shareable data can be organized as shared data which
is separately stored outside of the NF profile. One NF profile using the
shared data (e.g. UE identifier ranges) should carry a reference (i.e. shared
data identifier) pointing to that shared data. An NF may be associate with
multiple shared data with different types, thus multiple instance of shared
data identifiers may be registered in one NF profile.
The following enhancements to data structure of the NRF API are proposed:
\- Define individual data structures for each type of shared data;
> \- For example, define a SharedIdRanges data structure, which carries the
> identifier of the SharedIdRanges and a list of
> IMSI/MSISDN/SUPI/GPSI/External-Group-ID/Internal-Group-ID ranges, etc;
\- Define a SharedDataIdentifier data type as identifier of each type of
shared data;
> \- For example, the SharedIdRanges data structure includes an
> \"sharedDataId\" attribute of type SharedDataIdentifier, to indicate the
> unique identifier of that SharedIdRanges;
\- Add attribute in the NF profile to refer to the separately stored shared
data;
> \- For example, add \"sharedDataReferences\" attribute in the NFProfile of
> an NF to contain a list of shared data identifiers to multiple types of
> shared data, and within the \"sharedDataReferences\" container a
> \"sharedIdRangeRef\" attribute refers to one SharedIdRanges. Or, add one
> attribute \"sharedIdRangeRef\" directly in the
> AusfInfo/UdmInfo/PcfInfo/BsfInfo/ChfInfo/etc. to indicate the reference to a
> SharedIdRanges;
The following enhancements to resource tree of the NRF API are proposed:
\- Define individual resources in the resource tree of the NRF API, to provide
creation/update/deletion/retrieval operation to each type of shared data;
> \- For example, a separate resource \"/shared-id-ranges\" is defined to
> represent the collection of SharedIdRages. A POST operation to the
> \"/shared-id-ranges\" resource will create an instance of SharedIdRanges. A
> GET operation to the \"/shared-id-ranges/{sharedDataRef}\" will retrieve the
> content of the SharedIdRanges identified by the {sharedDataRef}.
\- A parent resource \"/shared-data\" may be used to umbrella all kinds of
shared data types. In this case, the resource \"/shared-data/shared-id-
ranges\" represents the collection of SharedIdRanges.
To configure the shared data in the NRF, the following methods should be used:
\- An operator should arrange those shareable data (e.g. UE identifier ranges)
to shared data in well-organized manner, and register those shared data to the
NRF;
> \- The registration of shared data to the NRF may be done by the operator
> management system, or by an operator granted NF (e.g. a special UDR). In the
> latter case, the granted NF invokes POST method to the resource representing
> the collection of that type of shared data (e.g. to the resource \"/shared-
> id-ranges\") to register the shared data.
\- An NF can register a reference (i.e. the shared data identifier) to one
shared data in its own NF profile, if the NF is configured to share some data
with other NFs and is aware of the shared data identifier. Multiple shared
data identifiers may be registered in the NF profile to refer to different
type of shared data;
To download NF profiles with shared data from the NRF, the following methods
should be used:
\- A request NF should indicate its support for the SharedData feature to the
NRF, in the NF discovery procedure or subscription to NF profile change
notification.
\- During NF discovery or NF profile change notification procedure, the NRF
and the request NF behaves as the following:
> \- For a request NF supporting the SharedData feature, the NRF only
> indicates the shared data identifier(s) referring to the shared data (e.g.
> shared data identifier to a SharedIdRanges) in the NF profile, when sending
> NF profile the request NF.
>
> \- For a request NF not supporting SharedData feature, the NRF shall
> translate the shared data identifier included in the NF profile to the
> content of existing attributes in the NF profile, when sending NF profile to
> the request NF.
>
> \- When receiving NF profile with shared data identifier(s), the request NF
> shall separately invoke GET operation to the NRF resource representing the
> shared data to retrieval the shared data, if not yet get the shared data.
### 6.1.2 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
NRF:
\- extend the existing NRF API to separately organize the shared data, and
provide individual operations to the resource representing the shared UE
identifier ranges.
NF:
\- invoke separate retrieval to the resource representing the shared data,
after receiving NF profile indicating a reference to the shared data from the
NRF.
### 6.1.3 Pros
This solution provides an efficient way to configure the shared data to
multiple NF profiles, and avoid duplicate transmission of same data configured
in multiple NF profiles.
### 6.1.4 Cons
The NRF needs to differentiate the handling to a request NF supporting or not
supporting SharedData feature.
## 6.2 Solution#2: Support of NF (Service) Set Profiles
### 6.2.1 Description
#### 6.2.1.1 General
This solution is to address Key Issue #1 with a focus on leveraging the NF
(Service) Set concept to avoid duplicate configuration, storage and
transmission of NF profiles for NFs belonging to the same NF set.
This solution proposes optional optimizations to the Nnrf_NFManagement and
Nnrf_NFDiscovery APIs to be controlled by a new feature \"NF Set Profile
Support\".\ Consumers of the Nnrf_NFManagement service should discover the
NRF\'s support of the new feature \"NF Set Profile Support\" using the HTTP
OPTION method as already defined in 3GPP TS 29.510 [2] clause 5.2.2.2.2.\
Consumers of the Nnrf_NFDiscovery service shall indicate in discovery request
messages whether they support the new feature \"NF Set Profile Support\".
This solution proposes two alternative options with regard to NF Set profile
provisioning at the NRF:
A) NF Set profiles are registered at the NRF by any NF instance that belongs
to the corresponding NF set.
B) NF Set profiles are configured at the NRF by OAM.
It is a PLMN operator choice to deploy option A) or B).
This solution proposes two alternatives with regard to NF discovery:
1) The NF Set profile is conveyed from NRF to the consumer within the
discovery response message that conveys NF instance profiles which contain the
corresponding NF Set Profile ID.
2) The NF Set profile is separately retrieved by the NRF consumer when needed.
#### 6.2.1.2 NFManagement API Resources
This solution proposes to extend the NFManagement API with new resources \"nf-
set\" allowing NF consumers to retrieve (applicable only for alternative 2,
see clause 6.2.1.1) NF Profile Set information from the NRF. In addition (only
for option A, see clause 6.2.1.1) the new resource \"nf-set\" allows NF
consumers (i.e. NF instances belonging to an NF Set) to register NF Set
profile information (i.e. profile information common to all NF instances
belonging to the set) at the NRF using the PUT method. Modification of the
resource\'s representation using PATCH and deletion of the resource using
DELETE will also be supported.
Proposed modifications to the URI structure of the NFManagement API are shown
in red in figure 6.2.1.2-1:
Figure 6.2.1.2-1
Proposed modifications to the Resource and Methods overview are shown in red
in table 6.2.1.2-1:
Table 6.2.1.2-1
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Resource name | Resource URI | HTTP method or | Description | | | | custom | | | | | operation | | +================+================+================+================+ | nf-instances | /nf-instances | GET | Read a | | | | | collection of | | (Store) | | | NF Instances. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | OPTIONS | Discover the | | | | | communication | | | | | options | | | | | supported by | | | | | the NRF for | | | | | this resource. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | nf-instance | /nf-instances/ | GET | Read the | | | {nfInstanceID} | | profile of a | | (Document) | | | given NF | | | | | Instance. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | PUT | Register in | | | | | NRF a new NF | | | | | Instance, or | | | | | replace the | | | | | profile of an | | | | | existing NF | | | | | Instance, by | | | | | providing an | | | | | NF profile. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | PATCH | Modify the NF | | | | | profile of an | | | | | existing NF | | | | | Instance. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | DELETE | Deregister | | | | | from NRF a | | | | | given NF | | | | | Instance. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | nf-set | /nf- | GET\ | Read the | | | sets/{nfSetID} | only for | profile of a | | (Document) | | alternative 2 | given NF Set. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | PUT\ | Register in | | | | only for | NRF a new NF | | | | option A | Set, or | | | | | replace the | | | | | profile of an | | | | | existing NF | | | | | Set, by | | | | | providing an | | | | | NF set | | | | | profile. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | PATCH\ | Modify the NF | | | | only for | set profile of | | | | option A | an existing NF | | | | | Set. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | DELETE\ | Deregister | | | | only for | from NRF a | | | | option A | given NF Set. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | subscriptions | /subscriptions | POST | Creates a new | | | | | subscription | | (Collection) | | | in NRF to | | | | | newly | | | | | registered NF | | | | | Instances. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | subscription | /su | PATCH | Updates an | | | bscriptions/{s | | existing | | (Document) | ubscriptionID} | | subscription | | | | | in NRF. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | DELETE | Deletes an | | | | | existing | | | | | subscription | | | | | from NRF. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Notification | {nfStatusNo | POST | Notify about | | Callback | tificationUri} | | newly created | | | | | NF Instances, | | | | | or about | | | | | changes of the | | | | | profile of a | | | | | given NF | | | | | Instance. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.2.1.3 NF-Instance Registration
For option A, the NF-Set profile can be registered (is so needed) by any NF
instance from the NF Set during NF-Instance registration as shown in figure
6.2.1.3-1. (It is assumed that all NF instances belonging to the same NF Set
share some common data e.g. using UDSF. The NF-Set profile would be part of
these common data.)
For option B, NF-Set profiles are configured at the NRF by OAM and need not be
conveyed from the registering NF instance to the NRF.
Figure 6.2.1.3-1
1\. NF instance of a particular NF set sends a PUT request to register the NF
instance profile at the NRF by creating a resource with a URI representing the
NF Instance ID. The variable nfInstanceID represents the identifier of the
registering NF instance. The registering NF instance registers only its NF Set
ID and NF instance specific attributes, and not the entire NFSet profile.
2\. On receipt of PUT request, if the NRF determines that there is no
corresponding NF Set profile already registered (option A) or configured
(option B) for the NF Set ID in the NRF, it replies with an error message 400
Bad Request (Problem details: missing NF Set Profile).
3\. However, this step and also steps 3, 4 and 5 are skipped if on receipt of
PUT request in step 1, NRF determines that there is already a registered or
configured NF Set profile for the NF Set ID of the registering NF instance,
e.g. in case another NF instance belonging to the same NF set already
registered to the NRF or the NF set profile was configured by OAM at the NRF
i.e. as per the steps explained in 3 and 4.
4\. In case NF instance receives error message in step 2, with details
'missing NF Set Profile',\ for option A: NF instance sends a PUT request to
the NRF to register the NF Set Profile, by creating a resource representing
the NF set profile with a URI identifying the NF set id e.g. .../nf-
sets/{nfSetID} (NF Set Profile). For example, this may be the case if this is
the first NF instance in this NF set registering to the NRF.\ for option B: NF
instance reports an error to OAM, and the NF instance should retry
registration with its full NF instance profile, i.e. not making use of the
\"NF Set Profile Support\" feature.
5\. On success, NRF replies with \"201 Created\". The payload body of the PUT
response contains the representation of the created resource (NF set profile)
and the \"Location\" header contains the URI of the created resource.
Same as 1.
6\. On success, NRF replies with \"201 Created\". The payload body of the PUT
response contains the representation of the created resource (NF profile) and
the \"Location\" header contains the URI of the created resource.
7\. Other NF instance(s) of the particular NF set sends a PUT request to
register its NF instance, as defined in step 1.
8\. On success, in response to the above step 7, NF instance(s) of the
particular NF set receives NRF replies with \"201 Created\".
#### 6.2.1.4 NF Discovery
##### 6.2.1.4.1 Alternative 1
NF service consumer indicates \"Set Profile support\" in the NF discovery
request in order for NRF to provide optimal response, including the NF Set
profile. Figure 6.2.1.4.1-1 shows an example call flow.
Figure 6.2.1.4.1-1: NF Discovery Request by NF Service Consumer supporting NF
Set Profile
1\. The NF Service Consumer sends GET request to the resource URI \"nf-
instances\" collection resource. The input filter criteria for the discovery
request are included in query parameters. It provides "Set Profile Support"
indicating to the NRF that it supports the \"NF Set Profile Support\" feature.
2\. Based on the received input of "NF Set Profile Support", the NRF
determines that the NF service consumer supports NF set profiles and that
requested NFInstance(s) belong to a particular NF Set e.g. NF Set 1.
3\. On success, \"200 OK\" is returned. In its response, the NRF includes an
array of NF Profile objects, that satisfy the search filter criteria e.g., all
NF Instances offering a certain NF Service name, and additionally includes the
NF Set Profile data. NRF does not provide NF Set profile attributes in each of
the NF Instance Profile, but instead it indicates NF Set ID in each NF
Instance profile.
##### 6.2.1.4.2 Alternative 2
NF service consumer indicates \"Set Profile support\" in the NF discovery
request in order for NRF to provide optimal response, but not including the NF
Set profile.
Figure 6.2.1.4.2-1 shows an example call flow, where the NRF does not return
the NF Set Profile data in the NF Discovery Response. If the NF consumer does
not already have the NF Set Profile corresponding to the NF Set ID indicated
in the returned NF profiles, the NF service consumer separately requests to
get it from NRF.
Figure 6.2.1.4.2-1: NF Discovery Request by NF Service Consumer supporting NF
Set Profile (variant)
1\. Same as in Figure 6.2.1.4.1-1.
2\. Same as in Figure 6.2.1.4.1-1.
3\. On success, \"200 OK\" is returned. In its response, the NRF includes an
array of NF Profile objects, that satisfy the search filter criteria e.g., all
NF Instances offering a certain NF Service name. NRF does not provide NF Set
profile attributes in each of the NF Instance Profile, but instead it
indicates NF Set ID in each NF Instance profile. Here (i.e. in this
alternative approach) the NRF does not return the NF set profile (as it might
already be available to the NRF consumer from previous requests).
4\. On receipt of NRF response in step 3, NF Service consumer determines that
it does not already have any stored information about NF Set 1 ID.
5\. NF Service consumer sends a request to get NF Set profile corresponding to
NF Set 1 ID. As a further optimization retrieval of the NF Set profile and
subscription to profile change notifications may be done with a single request
(POST).
6\. On success, \"200 OK\" is returned, along with NF Set 1 profile
#### 6.2.1.5 NF Set profile subscription
After having received the NF Set profile (see step 3 in figure 6.2.1.4-1 or
step 6 in figure 6.2.1.4-2) the NF service consumer may want to subscribe to
NF Set Profile Change Notifications, see figure 6.2.1.5-1.
figure 6.2.1.5-1
1\. NF Service Consumer subscribes by sending a POST request to the resource
URI representing the \"subscriptions\" collection resource, with subscription
data identifying the NF status changes to be notified, e.g. identifying the
need to notify NF status changes affecting the NF service producers of a given
NF set.
2\. On receipt of the request with NF Set profile support indication in step
1, NRF determines that NF service consumer supports NF set profiles and stores
the subscription (including the indication that the subscribing NF supports NF
set profiles).
3\. On success, \"201 Created\" is returned to the NF Consumer.
Note: NF Set Profile retrieval and subscription to change notifications can be
optimized using a single request message (POST). See clause 6.2.1.4 step 5.
#### 6.2.1.6 NF Set profile modification / deletion
Figure 6.2.1.6-1 describes the procedure to modify/delete the NF set profile
of NF instances already registered in the NRF (only applicable for option A,
see clause 6.2.1.1). Modification is done by providing the updated NF set
profile to the NRF. The update operation may apply to the whole NF set profile
i.e. complete replacement of the existing profile by a new profile using PUT,
or it may apply only to a subset of the parameters of the NF set profile i.e.
including adding/deleting/replacing attributes of the registered NF set
profile using PATCH. Deletion is done by using DELETE.
The procedure in figure 6.2.1.6-1 also enables the NRF to notify subscribed NF
consumers supporting NF Set profiles of changes (modification or deletion)
done to an NF set profile (applicable to both options A and B).
figure 6.2.1.6-1
1\. A NF instance from Set 1 performs an update / deletion of the NF Set
Profile by sending a PATCH or PUT or DELETE request to the resource URI
representing the NF set profile. For update, it provides the changes
corresponding to the NF Set Profile.
2\. On success, \"200 OK\" or \"204 No Content\" is returned.
3\. Triggered by steps 1-2 (for option A) or by OAM provisioning (for option
B) the NRF determines that it needs to send NFStatusNotify to subscribed NF
Service Consumer(s) as shown in figure 6.2.1.5-1.
4\. NRF sends NFStatusNotify to subscribed NF Service Consumer(s) (see clause
6.2.1.5) with changes to NF set profile data with update attributes / delete
indication.
### 6.2.2 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
NRF:
\- Extend the Nnrf_NFManagement and Nnrf_NFDiscovery APIs with the new feature
\"NF Set Profile Support\"
\- Support a new resource \"nf-set\" and offer methods to NRF consumers to
read and subscribe (only alternative 2), and (only option A) to register,
modify, and delete the new resource.
\- Support sending of change notifications to consumers having subscribed
\- Mediate between supporting NF consumers registering (and modifying) NF SET
profiles and non supporting NF consumers discovering (and subscribing)
registered profiles.
NRF consumer:
\- Support the new feature when consuming Nnrf_NFManagement or
Nnrf_NFDiscovery services
\- Register /Update / Delete NF Set Profile at the NRF when needed (only
option A).
\- Retrieve and subscribe to NF Set profiles
OAM procedures:
\- Configuration impacts to enable provisioning of NF Set profiles at NF
instances.
\- Configuration impacts to enable provisioning of NF Set profiles at the NRF
(option B only).
## 6.3 Solution #3: Download Large Volume Data from NRF
### 6.3.1 Description
The solution is to address the Key Issue #1: Avoid Duplicate Configuration and
Transmission of Shareable Data.
Some special sub-item in the NF profile may be configured with a huge content
list. A typical example is the IMSI/SUPI list configured in the AUSF/UDM
profiles. If the IMSI/SUPI list cannot be easily organized as reduced
IMSI/SUPI range list, the size of the whole list may occupy a large volume of
storage and may reaches or even exceeds the maximum size of JSON object (see
clause 6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.501). It is the operator's responsibility to
determine what content size is regarded as large volume based on its policy.
A possible way to solve this issue is to use pagination mechanism for
downloading such NF profile sub-item with huge content list. Currently, the
pagination mechanism has already been introduced in TS29.510 to retrieve part
of the entire NF profiles from one type of NF instances (see clause
6.1.3.2.3). Similar mechanism can be utilized to retrieve a specific sub-item
(e.g. IMSI/SUPI range list) of a NF profile, if that NF profile sub-item has
large volume of content.
To support the pagination downloading mechanism for NF profile sub-items,
following enhancements shall be considered:
\- 1) When sending NF Discovery request to the NRF, the requesting NF shall:
\- (a) indicate its support of paginated data retrieval feature;
\- 2) On receiving NF Discovery request from an NF, the NRF shall:
\- (a) check if the requesting NF supports paginated data retrieval feature;
\- (b) check if at least one NF profile sub-item has large volume of content,
perform (c)-(d);
\- (c) keep the detected NF profile sub-item with empty content;
\- (d) indicate a special pagination reference for retrieving the content of
the NF profile sub-item;
\- For example, the NRF includes a paginatedDataReference IE in the NF
profile. Within the paginatedDataReference IE, it carries: (a) the original
resource URI of the NF profile sub-item, (b) a special paginated-data-
retrieval URL used to retrieve one page of data of that NF profile inner item,
(c) total pages of the NF profile sub-item, (d) page size;
\- An example of the paginated-data-retrieval URL:
{apiRoot}/nnrf-nfm/v1/paginated-data-retrieval/{nf-instance-id}/{nf-profile-
sub-item}
\- 3) On receiving NF Discovery response from the NRF, the requesting NF
shall:
\- (a) store the NF profile returned by the NRF;
\- (b) check if pagination reference is present in the response, perform
bullet (c)-(d);
\- (c) initiate an separate HTTP GET to the paginated-data-retrieval URL,
indicating the target page number;
\- An example of HTTP GET request:
GET {apiRoot}/nnrf-nfm/v1/paginated-data-retrieval/{nf-instance-id}/{nf-
profile-sub-item}?page-number=1;
\- (d) continue (h) to retrieve all pages from the NRF, and assemble all pages
to get the entire content of the indicated NF profile sub-item.
### 6.3.2 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
NRF:
\- extend the existing NRF API to support paginated data retrieval.
NF:
\- indicate its support of paginated data retrieval feature to the NRF;
\- invoke paginated data retrieval to the indicated paginated-data-retrieval
URL to retrieve one page of content of a specific NF profile sub-item.
### 6.3.3 Pros
This solution provides an efficient way to download one piece of content of an
NF profile sub-item, in the case that the NF profile sub-item has large volume
of content.
### 6.3.4 Cons
The NRF needs to differentiate the handling to a requesting NF supporting or
not supporting paginated data retrieval feature.
## 6.4 Solution #4: Enhancement of inter NRF interaction to optimize shareable
data transmission
### 6.4.1 Description
The solution is to address the Key Issue #1: Avoid Duplicate Configuration and
Transmission of Shareable Data.
Duplicate configuration may exist in various data types (e.g. UE identifier
ranges) among different NF (or NF service) profiles. Possible shareable data
in NF (or NF service) profile are listed in clause 6.7.
Editor's Note: It is FFS that whether and which data types need to be defined
as standardized shared data types.
To avoid repeat transmission of shareable data within the NF profile, it is
proposed to classify these shareable data as different set of shared data,
identified by shared-data ID, in the same way adopted in subscription data
retrieval. Within the NRF interaction related procedures (e.g. NF
registration, NF discovery), the shared-data ID will be provided instead of
shared data.
As NRF is deployed in a hierarchical architecture, e.g. PLMN level, shared-
slice level, and slice-specific level, to configure the shared data on lower
level NRF might be not suitable for the fact that NFs may register its profile
in one of multiple NRF instances, and to configure the shared data on all NRF
instances as global unique information might cause a waste of storage
resource. In this solution, it is proposed to configure the shared on a higher
level NRF instance, and the corresponding NRF instance which stores this
shared data will be provided simultaneously together with the shared-data ID
when needed.
The procedure of shared-data ID provisioning would be as below:
\- The mapping correlation between shared-data ID and the corresponding shared
data is provisioned on a higher level NRF instance.
\- Besides, for the NF instances which holds these shared data, the shared-
data ID and the NRF instance ID which maintains the mapping correlation is
provisioned during the initialization process.
The procedure of NF registration procedure would be as below:
\- The NF registers its NF profile to the NRF, in which the NF profile
contains one or more shared-data ID(s) and the NRF instance ID which maintains
the shared data corresponds to the shared-data ID.
\- If the NRF determines that the shared data corresponds to the shared-data
ID is not available yet, it initiates the retrieval of shared data towards the
NRF instance identified by the NRF instance ID of the shared-data ID.
\- The NRF which receives the NF registration request needs to subscribe on
the change notification of shared data towards the NRF instance which
maintains the shared data.
The procedure of NF discovery procedure would be as below:
\- Upon receiving the NF discovery request from a request NF which indicates
its support for SharedData feature, the NRF can respond to the request NF with
the NF profile which includes the shared-data ID and the corresponding NRF
instance ID which maintains the related shared data.
\- Upon receiving the NF discovery request from a request NF which does not
indicate its support for SharedData feature, the NRF shall translate the
shared-data ID within the NF profile into the corresponding shared data, and
respond the NF profile to the request NF.
\- When the request NF receives NF profile contains shared-data ID, and the
corresponding shared data is not available yet, it initiates the retrieval and
subscription of shared data towards the NRF instance identified by the NRF
instance ID of the shared-data ID, or alternatively, towards the current NRF
instance.
As an alternative, if the shared-data ID is unique at PLMN granularity, the
mapping between the shared-data ID and corresponding NRF instance ID can be
registered outside of the NF profile, and the NRF doesn't need to provide the
NRF instance ID corresponding to the shared-data ID, as the request NF can
request and subscribe to the shared data by providing the uniquely assigned
shared-data ID.
### 6.4.2 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
NRF:
\- retrieves the shared-data corresponds to the received shared-data ID from
the NRF instance identified by the NRF instance ID.
\- responds the shared data according to the supported feature of the request
NF.
NF:
\- registers its NF profile to the NRF, which may include shared-data ID and
the corresponding NRF instance ID.
\- retrieves the shared-data corresponds to the received shared-data ID from
the NRF instance identified by the NRF instance ID or from the current NRF
instance.
### 6.4.3 Pros
This solution provided an efficient way to optimize the signalling load during
NRF interaction, and allows the shared data being provisioned in a distributed
way.
### 6.4.4 Cons
Shared-data ID is tightly bound to the corresponding NRF instance ID which
maintains the shared data, and needs to be transmitted together.
## 6.5 Solution #5: Optimization of shareable data transmission for NF set
level shared data
### 6.5.1 Description
The solution is to address the Key Issue #1: Avoid Duplicate Configuration and
Transmission of Shareable Data.
Duplicate configuration may exist in various data types (e.g. UE identifier
ranges) among different NF (or NF service) profiles. Possible shareable data
in NF (or NF service) profile are listed in clause 6.7.
Editor's Note: It is FFS that whether and which data types need to be defined
as standardized shared data types.
According to the definition in TS 23.501[3], NF Set is a group of
interchangeable NF instances of the same type, supporting the same services
and the same network slice(s), and can have access to the same context data
even geographically distributed. Under this precondition, it can be assumed
that NF profile of different NF instances within the same NF set tend to
converge, and would only differ with some NF instance specific data types,
e.g. address info, serving area. To optimize the transmission of shared data
for an NF set, it is proposed that the NRF can fetch the shared data from the
register NF upon receiving the NF set level shared data.
For set level shared data transmission, most of the data type within the NF
profile can be identified as a one or more shared-data ID(s), and the shared-
data ID can be provided together with the NF Set ID to the NRF during the NF
registration procedure, and further to the request NF by the NRF during the NF
discovery procedure.
The procedure of shared-data ID provisioning would be as below:
\- The mapping correlation between shared-data ID(s) and the corresponding
shared data is provisioned on all the NF instances within the same NF Set.
The procedure of NF registration procedure would be as below:
\- The NF registers its NF profile to the NRF, in which the NF profile
contains one or more shared-data ID(s), the shared-data ID can uniquely
identify the shared data stored within any of the NF instance in the same NF
set.
\- In case that the NRF determines that the shared data corresponds to the
shared-data ID is not available yet, it initiates the retrieval and
subscription of shared data towards the register NF by providing the shared-
data ID.
The procedure of NF discovery procedure would be as below:
\- Upon receiving the NF discovery request from a request NF which indicates
its support for SharedData feature, the NRF can respond to the request NF the
target NF profile(s). In case that the target NF(s) includes NF one or more NF
instance(s) within the same NF set, the mapping between shared-data ID and the
corresponding shared data will be provided within the response message.
\- Upon receiving the NF discovery request from a request NF which does not
indicate its support for SharedData feature, the NRF shall translate the
shared-data ID within the NF profile into the corresponding shared data, and
respond the NF profile to the request NF.
\- When the request NF receives NF profile contains shared-data ID, it
initiates the subscription of shared data change event towards the current NRF
instance, or alternatively, the NRF creates the subscription in an implicitly
way and notifies when shared data change event occurs.
When the NF which is subscribed by the NRF on shared data change event
deregisters from the NRF, the NRF can select another NF instance within the
same NF set and subscribe on the shared data change event to the NF instance.
### 6.5.2 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
NRF:
\- retrieves the shared-data corresponds to the received shared-data ID from
the register NF when needed.
\- responds the shared data according to the supported feature of the request
NF.
\- subscribe and re-subscribe on shared data change event to the register NF
or other NF instance within the same NF Set.
NF:
\- registers its NF profile to the NRF, which may include shared-data ID, and
support to handle the shared data retrieval and subscription of shared data
change event initiated by the NRF.
\- receives the shared-data ID and the corresponding shared data within the NF
discovery procedure.
### 6.5.3 Pros
This solution introduced shared data mechanism for the NF instances within the
same NF Set, to avoid the repeated transmission of the shared data related to
these NF instances.
### 6.5.4 Cons
This solution is designed for NF set level, and may be inefficient for NF
instances from different NF set scenario.
## 6.6 Solution #6: NRF Policy Control on Information Exposure for different
PLMNs
### 6.6.1 Description
The solution is to address the Key Issue #2: Signaling overhead of NF
discovery responses between PLMNs.
The NRF may be configured by means of OAM with sets of policy rules per PLMN
or per groups of PLMNs (e.g. one policy rule set for all foreign PLMNs, one
policy rule set for equivalent PLMNs,...). These rules define what parameters
of a registered NF profile can be exposed to the PLMN. Also these rules can
define the way how to modify/reduce registered profile parameters for exposure
to the PLMN in order to reduce the message length and required storage
capacity at the consumer.
The PLMN specific rules may take additional information into account (e.g. the
NF type of the registered NF) when deciding to remove parameters from the
discovery response message.
The policy rules shall be limited to cases where impacts to NF consumers are
avoided, i.e. NF consumers need not be aware of the fact that NF profiles in
the discovery response message have been modified/reduced.
E.g.: If the registered SmfInfo contains a list of TAIs or TAI ranges, the
policy rule for all foreign PLMNs could require to remove TAIs and TAI ranges
from SMF discovery responses sent to a foreign PLMN.
The PLMN-specific policy rules shall apply to NF discovery response messages
and to profile change notification messages.
Figure 6.6.1-1 shows an example flow.
Figure 6.6.1-1
1-2. PLMN X -specific policy rules are configured at the NRF.
3-4. NF producer registers its profile at the NRF.
5\. NRF receives a discovery request from PLMN X.
6\. NRF applies the configured policy rules for PLMN X to the registered NF
profile.
7\. NRF sends a discovery response containing the registered NF profile with
PLMN X -specific policy rules applied.
8-9. NRF receives a subscribe request from PLMN X.
10-11. NF producer modifies its NF profile
12\. NRF applies the configured policy rules for PLMN X to the modified NF
profile.
13-14. If the modified profile with policy rules applied differs from the
original profile with policy rules applied: NRF notifies the consumer.
### 6.6.2 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
OAM:
\- Configure the NRF with policy rules per PLMN.
NRF:
\- Apply configured policy rules to NF discovery response messages and profile
change notification messages.
NF consumer:
\- None.
### 6.6.3 Pros
This solution provides an efficient way to shorten NF Discovery response
messages and Profile change notification messages sent to different PLMNs.
Also the amount of Profile change notification messages will be reduced.
NF consumers are not impacted.
### 6.6.4 Cons
Depending on the complexity of OAM configured policy rules, additional NRF
storage and processing resources to store and apply the rules are needed.
However, as inter-PLMN discovery traffic represents a rather low contribution
to the overall NF discovery traffic, the need for additional processing
resources may be limited.
## 6.7 Solution#7: List of Shareable Profile Items
### 6.7.1 Description
This solution is to address the Key Issue #1: Avoid Duplicate Configuration
and Transmission of Shareable Data. Specially, this solution lists those NF
profile items which are possibly shared among different NF (or NF service)
profiles which may belong to same or different NF set.
Table 6.7.1-1 lists NF profile items that might be shared by multiple NFs (or
NF services), either across different NF sets or within same NF set.
Table 6.7.1-1: Possible shareable NF profile items
**#** **Shareable NF profile items** **Shared by NFs across different NF
sets** **Shared by NFs within same NF set**
* * *
01 List of supported PLMN (e.g. allowed PLMNs) O (Optionally shared) M
(Mandatorily shared) 02 List of supported features O M 03 UE identifier ranges
(e.g. SUPI ranges, GPSI ranges, IMSI ranges, IMEI ranges, MSISDN ranges,
external/internal group identifier ranges, etc.) O M 04 Routing indicator,
SUCI info (e.g. configured in AusfInfo); O M 05 List of supported serving area
(e.g. TAI list or TAI range list) O M 06 List of supported NF services O M 07
List of allowed NF types O M 08 List of allowed NF domains O M 09 List of
supported S-NSSAI O M 10 List of supported DNN O M 11 List of supported DNAI O
M 12 NF/NFS FQDN (used for intra-PLMN or inter-PLMN) N/A O 13 Service endpoint
info (HTTP scheme, port number) O O 14 List of locality O O 15 List of serving
scope O O 16 List of SCP domain O O 17 List of default notification callback
URL N/A O
If above sharable profile items are shared by NFs within the same NF set,
solution #2 provides candidate methods to configure and store the shared NF
set profile without need of definitions for new data type for shareable
profile items.
If above shareable profile items are shared by NFs not belonging to the same
NF Set, new data types for those shareable data might be defined. For example,
a variant type might be defined as a container to carry different shareable
profile items, with an enumeration attribute (e.g. contentType) indicating the
exact type of inner profile item.
### 6.7.2 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
NRF, NF:
\- May need to support new data types defined for shareable data.
### 6.7.3 Pros
If a common variant data type is defined for various shareable data, it is no
need to define separate data types for each shareable profile items.
### 6.7.4 Cons
No special cons foreseen.
## 6.8 Solution #8: Single Subscription of NF Profile Change from an NF Set
### 6.8.1 Description
The solution is to address the Key Issue #1: Avoid Duplicate Configuration and
Transmission of Shareable Data.
Multiple NFs in an NF Set may subscribe the NF profile changes of the same NF.
As per existing procedure, the NRF creates individual subscription for each
requesting NF. Once the NF profile of the target NF changes, the NRF sends
separate notifications to each NF that previously subscribed the NF profile
change notification. This mechanism can be simply implemented but it creates
unnecessary notifications towards NFs within an NF Set.
However, as NFs within an NF Set may share the runtime context (e.g. cached NF
profiles, subscriptions to NF profile changes, etc.) by the assistance of
UDSF, it is possible for those NFs to only create one instance of subscription
for the indicated purpose in the NRF.
The following enhancements can be considered for this solution:
\- 1) When one NF wants to subscribe NF profile change for a specific NF, the
requesting NF shall first check if such subscription context exists in the
UDSF:
\- 1.1) if exist, it means such subscription to the NRF has already been
created by another NF in the NF Set, thus it is no need to trigger duplicate
subscription to the NRF. The requesting NF may register itself to the
subscription context in the UDSF so as to be notified later.
\- 1.2) if not exist, the requesting NF sends subscription request to the NRF,
and stores the subscription context (e.g. subscribed NF Instance ID,
requesting NF ID, etc.) in the UDSF.
\- 2) When detecting NF profile changes for a specific NF, the NRF initiates
NF profile change notification to the NF(s) that subscribed the event, without
any special enhancement to the notification procedure.
\- 3) On receiving NF profile change notification from the NRF, the receiving
NF shall store the updated NF profile of the indicated NF in the UDSF.
Implementation specific method may be used by the UDSF to make other NFs in
the NF Set be aware of the updated NF profile.
### 6.8.2 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
NF:
\- Enhancements to NF internal logic to avoid sending duplicate subscriptions
to the NRF to subscribe NF profile change for a specific NF;
NRF:
\- No special enhancement.
### 6.8.3 Pros
This solution doesn\'t require any enhancement to the NRF interface and NRF
logic.
### 6.8.4 Cons
This solution relies on the NF internal enhancement and implementation of
UDSF, and may not always be available. The complexity of UDSF implementation
may further decrease the usability of the solution.
## 6.9 Solution #9: Single NF Profile Change Notification to an NF Set
### 6.9.1 Description
The solution is to address the Key Issue #1: Avoid Duplicate Configuration and
Transmission of Shareable Data.
Multiple NFs in an NF Set may subscribe the NF profile changes of the same NF.
As per existing procedure, the NRF creates individual subscription for each
requesting NF. Once the NF profile of the target NF changes, the NRF sends
separate notifications to each NF that previously subscribed the NF profile
change notification. This mechanism can be simply implemented but it creates
unnecessary notifications towards NFs within an NF Set.
However, it is possible for the NRF to aggregate separate subscriptions to NF
profile change of a specific NF from multiple NFs within an NF Set, and thus
only sends one instance of NF profile change notification to multiple NFs
within an NF Set.
The following enhancements can be considered for the solution:
\- 1) When one NF subscribes NF profile change of a specific NF to the NRF,
the requesting NF shall indicate its support of sharing NF profile change
notification within NF Set in the request message;
\- certain methods (if available) might be used by the requesting NF to avoid
sending duplicate NF profile change subscription to the NRF, e.g. as addressed
by solution #8;
\- 2) On receiving subscription to a specific NF profile, the NRF shall:
\- 2.1) check if the requesting NF supports sharing NF profile change
notification within NF Set;
\- if the requesting NF does not have the expected capability, the NRF handles
the subscription request as per existing procedure;
\- if the requesting NF has the expected capability, continue step 2.2);
\- 2.2) check if the NF profile change subscription for a specific NF Set
exists in the NRF;
\- if not exist, create the subscription at per NF Set level, and store the
following information in the subscription context: NF Instance ID of the
subscribed NF, NF Set ID, NF Instance ID of the requesting NF, callback URI of
the requesting NF;
\- if exist, store the following information in the existing subscription
context: NF Instance ID of the requesting NF, callback URI of the requesting
NF.
\- 3) When NF profile change of a specific NF is detected, the NRF shall:
\- 3.1) check if the stored NF profile change subscription is at NF Set level,
i.e. multiple NFs in an NF Set have subscribed the NF profile change
notification:
\- if not, handle the NF profile change notification as per existing
procedure;
\- if yes, continue step 3.2);
\- 3.2) handle the NF profile change notification at NF set level, i.e. select
one target NF from the requesting NFs belonging to same NF Set (i.e. from the
request NF list stored in the subscription context), and send NF profile
change notification to that selected NF;
\- 4) When one NF receives NF profile change notification from the NRF, it
shall store the updated NF profile, and synchronize the received NF profile
update with other NFs in the same NF Set.
### 6.9.2 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
NF:
\- indicate the support of sharing NF profile change notification within NF
Set to the NRF;
NRF:
\- enhance the NRF interface and logic, so as to detect the subscription from
an NF with support of sharing NF profile change notification within NF Set and
handle the subscription and notification accordingly.
### 6.9.3 Pros
With the enhancement, the NF profile change notifications to multiple NFs
within an NF Set are reduced.
### 6.9.4 Cons
The NRF needs to differentiate the handling to a requesting NF with or with
support of sharing NF profile change notification within NF Set.
## 6.10 Solution #10: Simplifying the NF service discovery response of inter-
PLMN
### 6.10.1 Description
The solution is to address the Key Issue #2: Signaling Overhead of NF
Discovery Responses between PLMNs.
According to the definition in 3GPP TS 29.510 [2], NRF returns all value of
attributes of array or map type in NF Profile in NF discovery response,
however, in most inter-PLMN scenarios, NF consumer does not need to obtain all
attribute values. For example, all the list of ranges of SUPIs whose profile
data is available in the UDM instance is stored in the supiRanges of the NF
profile, and NF consumers in other PLMNs need only a few of them.
Consequently, in this solution, the inter-PLMN NF discovery response message
will only contain value that match the NF discovery request parameters, not
all value. NF consumer could process the simplified response as normal without
any additional change, as the matched values fully meet its requirements in
this service procedure. Furthermore, NF consumer could process the simplified
response more appropriately with identifying it.
To support the solution, following enhancements shall be considered:
Figure 6.10.1.1: inter-PLMN NF service discovery procedure with partial
information
1) The NF service consumer sends the NF discovery request to the NRF when
query fail in the cache;
2) The intermediate NRF (NRF1) forwards the NF discovery request to the NRF in
home network (NRF2);
3) On receiving NF Discovery request, the target NRF only returns the value
matching the query parameters in the response, and carried an indication.
An example of simplifying response message:
The supiRanges value of the NF1 profile registered on NRF is:
{{\"start\": \"123456789040000\", \"end\": \"123456789049999\"}
{\"start\": \"123456789050000\", \"end\": \"123456789059999\"}
{\"start\": \"123456789060000\", \"end\": \"123456789069999\"}}
In the NF discovery request from NF2, the value of the query parameter SUPI is
"123456789041234", and other query parameters also match NF1. Then NF
discovery response returned to NF2 contains only "{\"start\":
\"123456789040000\", \"end\": \"123456789049999\"}".
4) On receiving NF Discovery response from the NRF the consumer could cache it
as normal. Provided that the consumer could handle the indication that
indicates a simplified response, it could process the response more
appropriately, e.g., updating values of the response to cache and not deleting
other values of same NF producer already exist in cache, so as to cache more
useful data and saving more signaling overhead.
### 6.10.2 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
NRF:
\- Simplify the NF discovery response message.
NF:
\- Process the simplified NF discovery response message.
### 6.10.3 Pros
This solution introduces a simplification mechanism for inter-PLMN NF
discovery response, to avoid the unnecessary signalling overhead and data
storage overhead in inter-PLMN scenario.
### 6.10.4 Cons
The number of inter-PLMN NF discovery messages might increase a little.
## 6.11 Solution 11: Avoid large configuration of UE Routing Indicator
### 6.11.1 Description
The solution is to address the Key Issue #1: Avoid Duplicate Configuration and
Transmission of Shareable Data.
Several NF types, such as UDM, AUSF, AAnF..., may contain in their NFProfile
info a (potentially very large) set of Routing Indicators (RID). When a
candidate NF instance of any of those types needs to be discovered by a
consumer, it includes the UE RID in the NRF Discovery request, so the NRF
returns only those NF instances containing such RID in their profiles.
This is a quite similar scenario to the discovery of candidate producer
instances based on SUPI, and the problem of provisioning a large set of SUPI
ranges in the NF Profile of the NF instances themselves. For this problem, the
approach of configuring the mapping between SUPI and NF Group ID was addressed
by moving the configuration of SUPI ranges and NF Group IDs to the NRF and
letting the NRF to obtain the NF Group ID for a given SUPI received in the
discovery request and include the NF instances of the corresponding NF Group
ID in the discovery response.
If the NRF has no stored configuration mapping identity sets/ranges to NF
Group ID locally, the NRF can retrieve the NF Group ID corresponding to a
specific subscriber identifier from the UDR using the Nudr_GroupIDmap_Query
service operation.
A similar approach can be proposed for the RIDs: the configuration of mapping
between RID and NF Group ID can be moved out from the producer NFProfile (and
NRF), and can be done at the NRF either based on local configuration or by
interacting with UDR. It should be noted that all NF instances deployed in the
same NF Group will define support for the same list of Routing Indicators and
multiple Routing Indicators can be supported within the same NF Group.
### 6.11.2 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
NRF:
\- add logic to determine the NF Group ID for a given RID, either based on
local configuration or by interacting with UDR.
UDR:
\- enhance the Nudr_GroupIDmap API to support receiving the RID as input for
the mapping.
### 6.11.3 Pros
This solution provides a very simple enhancements to relieve the configuration
of large sets of RID in NF producers\' NFProfile and lowering the size of
these profiles.
### 6.11.4 Cons
None identified.
## 6.12 Solution #12: Support for NF Set level shared data
### 6.12.1 Description
The solution is to address the Key Issue #1: Avoid Duplicate Configuration and
Transmission of Shareable Data.
According to the definition in TS 23.501[3], NF Set is a group of
interchangeable NF instances of the same type, supporting the same services
and the same network slice(s), and can have access to the same context data
even geographically distributed. Under this precondition, it can be assumed
that NF profiles of different NF instances within the same NF Set tend to
converge, and would only differ with some NF instance specific data types,
e.g. address info, NF Instance info, etc.
To optimize the storage and transmission of shared data for an NF Set, the
following issues needs to be addressed in this solution:
a) How the NRF receives the shared data for a specific NF Set.
b) How the NRF can be notified of the updated shared data for the NF Set.
c) How the NF discovery procedure can be optimized to avoid the transmission
of multiple copies of shared data for the NF Set.
Evaluation of Issue a) and issue b) heavily depends on the endpoint in which
the shared data is provisioned, e.g. the NF instances, or the NRF. If the
shared data for the NF Set is provisioned only in the NF instance, the mapping
information between NF Set ID and corresponding shared data in the NRF needs
to be maintained by the NF instance(s), thus implicit and explicit
subscription may be involved as specified in Option A of Solution #2 and
Solution #5 respectively, which may cause complicated interaction between NRF
and NF instance to guarantee the consistency of the shared data for the NF
Set.
In consideration of the fact that the NF instances of the same NF Set is
usually served by a specific NRF instance or specific pair of NRF instances,
it would be much easier to enable the direct provisioning and updating of
shared data for the NF Set by the OAM. In this case, transmission of shared
data for the NF Set is not needed during the NF registration procedure.
For issue c), either one step or two step retrieval can be adopted to avoid
the transmission of shared data for the NF Set. As the NF discovery is
triggered to discovery the target NF instance or target set of NF instance(s),
it means the NF Consumer have no NF profile context for the NF Producer within
the NF Set, not to mention the shared data for the NF Set, one step retrieval
is proposed to be adopted to avoid additional interaction.
Similar with the updating on URI structure of the NFManagement API in Solution
#2, resource nf-sets is proposed to be managed independent of the NF profile
within the resource nf-instances. As the resource nf-sets is provisioned and
updated by the OAM directly, only HTTP GET method triggered by NF Consumer or
other NRF instance is needed for this resource.
Figure 6.12.1.2-1 Resource Structure for Nnrf_NFManagement service
The procedure of shared data for NF Set provisioning and updating would be as
below:
\- The mapping correlation between NF Set ID and the corresponding shared data
for the NF Set is provisioned and updated by the OAM, based on the serving
relationship between NRF instance(s) and NF Set(s), which is outside the 3GPP
scope.
> NOTE 1: OAM is responsible for the provisioning of shared data for the NF
> Set into the corresponding NRF instance(s) which serves the NF Set.
The procedure of NF registration procedure would be as below:
\- The NF registers its NF profile to the NRF, which contains the NF Set ID it
belongs to. As the shared data for the NF Set is already provisioned in the
NRF, no shared data is to be contained within the registered NF profile.
\- Upon receiving the NF registration request, the NRF correlates the
registered NF instance with the stored nf-sets by using NF Set ID.
The procedure of NF discovery procedure would be as below:
\- Upon receiving the NF discovery request from a requester NF which indicates
its support for NFSetSharedData feature, the NRF responds to the requester NF
the registered NF profile(s) of the target NF instance(s), together with the
shared data for the NF Set(s) corresponding to the target NF instance(s).
\- Upon receiving the NF discovery request from a requester NF which does not
indicate its support for NFSetSharedData feature, the NRF merges the
registered NF profile with the shared data of the NF Set for each target NF
instance, and respond the merged NF profile(s) to the requester NF.
\- When the requester NF receives the additional shared data for the NF
Set(s), it correlates the shared data for the NF Set(s) with the received NF
profile(s), and regards the shared data for the NF Set applicable for every NF
instance of the NF Set when interacting with the NF Producer. It initiates the
subscription of change event for the shared data of NF Set(s) and NF
profile(s) towards the NRF respectively if not triggered yet.
> NOTE 2: OAM is responsible for avoiding duplicate provisioning for a
> specific attribute in both NF profile registered by the NF Producer and the
> shared data for the NF Set.
### 6.12.2 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
NRF:
\- Correlates the registered NF profile and stored shared data for the
corresponding NF Set, and responds the NF profile and shared data for the NF
set to the requester NF in a proper way, based on the supported feature of the
requester NF.
NF Producer:
\- registers its NF profile to the NRF, which includes NF Set ID it belongs
to, while shared data for the NF set is not included.
NF Consumer:
\- receives the NF profile for the target NF instance(s) and the corresponding
shared data for the NF Set, regards the shared data for the NF Set applicable
for each NF instance within the NF Set.
### 6.12.3 Pros
No complicated explicit and implicit coordination for shared data of the NF
set is needed between NF Producer and the NRF.
### 6.12.4 Cons
This solution is designed for NF Set level, and may be inefficient for NF
instances from different NF Set scenario.
# 7 Evaluations
## 7.1 Evaluation of Solutions for Key Issue#1
### 7.1.1 Synchronization of Shareable Data
#### 7.1.1.1 Configured Shareable Data
NF configuration data (configured by means of OAM at the NF/NF set) have an
impact on the NF\'s profile data stored at the NRF. Profile data stored at the
NRF are either statically configured by means of OAM (in sync with the data
configured at the NF/NF set), or dynamically registered by the NF (avoiding
synchronization issues).
Similarly for shared configuration data and their IDs, which are configured by
means of OAM at all sharing NFs/NF sets: The corresponding shared data / set
profile and IDs needs to be stored at the NRF.
Solution #1 allows data sharing among NFs of different types or of same type
from different sets. This adds the need for synchronized configuration. In
addition, solution #1 proposes to configure shared data and their IDs at all
NRFs, adding even more complexity to ensure overall synchronized
configuration.
The synchronization issue between NRFs is addressed by solution #4 which
proposes a higher level NRF to store the shared data, at the cost of higher
NRF to NRF traffic, to retrieve the shared data when needed.
Similarly, solution #1 proposes as an option to sync NRFs by means of an
operator granted NF (e.g. special UDR).
Still synchronization between NFs, between NF sets and between NF and NRF
remains an issue adding complexity to network configuration.
Solution #2 (option A) and solution #5 propose to configure/provision
shareable data (NF set profiles) and their IDs (NF set ID) at a single place
(the NF set), avoiding all kinds of synchronization issues.
Solution #2 (option B) proposes to configure/provision shareable data (NF set
profiles) and their IDs (NF set IDs) at two places (a single NRF set and a
single NF set) allowing to minimize synchronization issues.
Solution #8 and #9 proposes similar way to avoid duplicate subscription and
change notification, via the UDSF and NRF determination. However, the basis of
the solution might be inaccurate, as the NF will only determine to trigger the
subscription when no shared data can be found locally, thus no duplication
subscription will be received by the NRF, and the NRF does not need to avoid
duplicate notification to the NFs within the same NF set.
Solution #11 proposes to delegate the configuration of a certain type of
shareable data (Routing Indicators) to the NRF or UDR and let the NRF find out
the mapping between RID and NF Group ID based on local configuration or via an
existing API with the UDR. This approach is quite similar to the existing
mechanism for handling SUPI ranges, and in that sense, it does not bring any
additional issue related to configuration, discovery or change of such
shareable data, compared to the existing mechanism already in place for
mapping between SUPI and NF Group ID.
Solution #12 proposes to configure the shared data in NRF(s) which serves the
NF Set, thus no synchronization on update of shared data is required between
NF(s) and NRF(s).
#### 7.1.1.2 Discovered Shareable Data
Once shareable data have been discovered by NFs during the NF discovery
procedure, the data are subject to change. Solutions #1, #2 and #5 propose
similar subscribe/notify mechanisms ensuring that discovered shared data are
kept in sync.
#### 7.1.1.3 Change of Shareable Data
When the shareable data is configured in NF instance or NRF, the operator may
update the correlation between shared-data ID with shareable data. The NRF
should be aware of the change event.
Editor\'s note: The solution evaluation for Change of Shareable Data is FFS.
### 7.1.2 Storage requirements
#### 7.1.2.1 Storage of configured data
Storing/configuring multiple copies of the same configured data (i.e.
redundant data) at an NF is an issue addressed by solutions #1, #2, #4 and #5.
However, storing requirements for a single copy of shared data differ. It is
beneficial to store/configure shared data at a single place in the network.
Solution #1 proposes to configure/store shared data at all or multiple NRFs
/NRF set in the PLMN.
Solution #4 proposes to configure/store shared data at a single higher level
NRF /NRF set.
Solution #2 option A proposes to configure/store shared data (NF set profiles)
at a single NF set.
Solution #2 option B proposes to configure/store shared data (NF set profiles)
at a single NRF/NRF set.
Solution #5 proposes to configure/store shared data at a single NF set.
Solution #8 and #9 proposes to configure/store shared data at a single NF set.
Solution #11 proposes to configure Routing Indicator to NF Group ID mapping at
the NRF or in the UDR, rather than at the NFProfile of the producer (UDM,
AUSF, AAnF).
Solution #12 proposes to configure shared data within the NRF(s) serving the
NF set.
#### 7.1.2.2 Storage of discovered data
Storing multiple copies of the same discovered data (i.e. redundant data) at
an NF is an issue addressed by solutions #1, #2, #5, #8, #9 and #12. All
solutions propose the same principle, i.e. store the discovered shared data
only once and use the IDs as a pointer to the shared data.
Similar solution is also proposed in solution #4, by identify the discovered
shared data using shared-data IDs together with the corresponding higher level
NRF instance ID.
### 7.1.3 Discovery procedure
Solutions #1, #2, #4 and #5 propose optimizations, differing with regard to
discovery response message length and number of message roundtrips.
Solution #1, alternative 2 of solution #2, solution #4 and solution #12
propose an additional roundtrip to retrieve shared data from the NRF if a
shared data ID (or set profile ID) was received while the corresponding shared
data (or set profile) has not yet been received. This additional message
roundtrip occurs only when the shared data is not cached.
Solutions #5 and alternative 1 of solution #2 propose to always include (a
single copy of) the shared data in the discovery response message, so to avoid
an (potentially seldom occurring) additional roundtrip at the cost of (an
always) increased message length.
With solution #3 the response message length is reduced at the cost of more
roundtrips.
Solutions #8 and #9 propose optimizations for NF profile change subscription
and notification that simplify the discovery of shared data.
Solution #11 does not imply any change on the discovery procedure by consumers
of the NRF Discovery service.
### 7.1.4 Which data should be shareable?
Standardizing the exact list of data that may be shareable comes with the
drawback that for any extension in future releases the decision (and
specification) needs to be taken whether or not the extended data is worth
being shareable.
Solution #1 currently has an editor\'s note indication that this aspect is
ffs.
Solution #5 has the same issue as #1 (although not explicitly stated).
Solution #2 avoids the need to address the issue as the NF set profile would
be of the same type as the NF profile.
Solution #7 listed the data which can be shared in the NF profile items.
Solution #11 is restricted to the Routing Indicator data set, as shareable
data.
### 7.1.5 New NF services operations
It is beneficial to extend existing service operations rather than defining
new service operations.
Solution #5 proposes that the NRF retrieves (and subscribes to) shared data
from the NF during the NF registration procedure. The registering NF can be of
any type. Consequently, any NF of any type must offer a new service allowing
the NRF to retrieve and subscribe to shared data.
Solution #2 option A avoids new service operations by re-using and extending
the Nnrf_NFManagement service operations (NFRegister, NFUpdate, NFDeregister)
allowing any NF to push (register) its set profile to the NRF, modify it at
the NRF and delete it from the NRF. While it is not mentioned how the NRF can
determine whether the NF Set profile is not contained due to this feature or
some error cases, as no shared-data-ID is provided to the NRF in the
NFRegister request.
Solution #3 avoids new service operations by re-using and extending the
Nnrf_NFDiscovery service operation (NFDiscover) allowing pagination of
discovery responses.
Solution #11 does not require any modification on the interaction between the
producer and the NRF.
### 7.1.6 Applicability Scope
Solutions #2, #12 and #5 restrict sharing of data to NF sets and does not
address sharing of data that may be common to NFs (of same or different type)
from different sets.
Solution #3 is restricted to NF instance level.
Solution #1 has no restriction, i.e. it is applicable on PLMN level.
Solution #4 can be applicable on PLMN level or level NRF instance level.
Solution #11 is restricted to the Routing Indicator data set, as shareable
data, and therefore it is restricted to the producer NF types that make use of
such data.
### 7.1.7 Backward compatibility
All solutions except Solution #11 require feature support indications to
ensure backward compatibility with no-supporting legacy NFs.
Solution #11 does not require any modification on the interaction between the
producer and the NRF, and it simply implies that the producer will no longer
include the list of supported Routing Indicators in its NFProfile.
### 7.1.8 Comparison
Detailed comparison of the solutions can be listed as below:
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Sol | Sol | Sol | Sol | Sol | Sol | Sol | Sol | | | ution | ution | ution | ution | ution | ution | ution | ution | | | #1 | #2 | #3 | #4 | #5 | #8 | #9 | #12 | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | Synch | Sy | Opt | N/A | Sy | no | Avoid | Avoid | no | | roniz | nchro | ionA: | | nchro | sy | dupl | dupl | sy | | ation | nized | no | | nized | nchro | icate | icate | nchro | | of | con | sy | | con | nized | su | su | nized | | Shar | figur | nchro | | figur | con | bscri | bscri | con | | eable | ation | nized | | ation | figur | ption | ption | figur | | Data | in | con | | in | ation | and | and | ation | | | all | figur | | all | be | c | c | be | | | NFs | ation | | NFs | tween | hange | hange | tween | | | and | be | | and | NFs | no | no | NFs | | | all | tween | | h | and | tific | tific | and | | | NRFs | NFs | | igher | NRFs | ation | ation | NRFs | | | is | and | | level | req | via | via | req | | | req | NRFs | | NRF | uired | UDSF. | the | uired | | | uired | req | | is | | | NRF. | | | | | uired | | req | | | | | | | | | | uired | | | | | | | | O | | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | | B: | | | | | | | | | | sy | | | | | | | | | | nchro | | | | | | | | | | nized | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | | NF | | | | | | | | | | sets | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | NRF | | | | | | | | | | (set) | | | | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | | | | uired | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Su | FFS | FFS | FFS | FFS | FFS | FFS | FFS | FFS | | pport | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | shar | | | | | | | | | | eable | | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | St | S | O | N/A | S | S | S | S | S | | orage | hared | ption | | hared | hared | hared | hared | hared | | re | data | A: | | data | data | data | data | data | | quire | are | S | | are | are | are | are | are | | ments | st | hared | | st | st | st | st | st | | | ored/ | set | | ored/ | ored/ | ored/ | ored/ | ored/ | | | confi | pr | | confi | confi | confi | confi | confi | | | gured | ofile | | gured | gured | gured | gured | gured | | | in | is | | in | at | at a | at a | at | | | al | st | | al | the | s | s | the | | | l/mul | ored/ | | l/mul | NF | ingle | ingle | NF | | | tiple | confi | | tiple | set | NF | NF | set | | | NFs | gured | | NFs | only | set | set | and | | | and | at | | and | | | | the | | | NRFs | the | | in a | | | | N | | | | NF | | h | | | | RF(s) | | | | set | | igher | | | | se | | | | only | | level | | | | rving | | | | | | NRF | | | | the | | | | O | | | | | | NF | | | | ption | | | | | | Set | | | | B: | | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | | hared | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | | | ofile | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | | | | ored/ | | | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | | | gured | | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | NF | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | | sing | | | | | | | | | | leNRF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Disc | One | A | Res | One | No | No | No | No | | overy | addit | ltern | ponse | addit | addit | addit | addit | addit | | proc | ional | ative | me | ional | ional | ional | ional | ional | | edure | me | 1: No | ssage | me | Roun | Roun | Roun | Roun | | | ssage | addit | l | ssage | dtrip | dtrip | dtrip | dtrip | | | roun | ional | ength | roun | at | at | at | at | | | dtrip | Roun | is | dtrip | the | the | the | the | | | only | dtrip | re | only | cost | cost | cost | cost | | | when | at | duced | when | of | of | of | of | | | s | the | at | s | h | h | h | h | | | hared | cost | the | hared | igher | igher | igher | igher | | | data | of | cost | data | me | me | me | me | | | are | h | of | are | ssage | ssage | ssage | ssage | | | not | igher | more | not | size | size | size | size | | | c | me | me | c | | | | | | | ached | ssage | ssage | ached | | | | | | | | size | round | | | | | | | | | | trips | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | | ltern | | | | | | | | | | ative | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | One | | | | | | | | | | addit | | | | | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | | ssage | | | | | | | | | | roun | | | | | | | | | | dtrip | | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | hared | | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | ached | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Which | ffs | No | N/A | N/A | ffs | N/A | N/A | ffs | | data | | need | | | | | | | | s | | to | | | | | | | | hould | | s | | | | | | | | be | | tanda | | | | | | | | share | | rdize | | | | | | | | able? | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | New | Not | Not | Not | Not | All | Not | Not | Not | | NF | req | req | req | req | NFs | req | req | req | | se | uired | uired | uired | uired | must | uired | uired | uired | | rvice | | | | | pr | | | | | opera | | | | | ovide | | | | | tions | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | hared | | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | | retr | | | | | | | | | | ieval | | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | | rvice | | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | sumed | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | NRF | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | App | PLMN | NF | NF | NRF | NF | NF | NF | NF | | licab | level | Set | Ins | level | Set | Set | Set | set | | ility | | level | tance | or | level | level | level | level | | scope | | | Level | PLMN | | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Bac | By | By | By | By | By | Not | By | By | | kward | incl | incl | indic | indic | indic | req | indic | indic | | Com | uding | uding | ating | ating | ating | uired | ating | ating | | patib | S | Set | su | su | su | | su | su | | ility | hared | pr | pport | pport | pport | | pport | pport | | | Data | ofile | of | for | for | | of | for | | | su | Su | pagi | share | share | | sh | share | | | pport | pport | nated | dData | dData | | aring | dData | | | indic | Indic | data | fe | fe | | NF | fe | | | ation | ation | retr | ature | ature | | pr | ature | | | | | ieval | | | | ofile | | | | | | fe | | | | c | | | | | | ature | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | | | tific | | | | | | | | | | ation | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 7.2 Evaluation of Solutions for Key Issue#2
Solution for Key issue#2 aim to address the signalling overhead of NF
Discovery Responses between PLMNs.
Solution #10 reduce the signalling overhead of NF discovery response by only
containing value that match the NF discovery request parameters in the
response. Solution #10 might increase the number of NF discovery message,
however, the overall overhead of NF discovery procedure between PLMNs will be
optimized.
Solution #6 would shorten NF discovery response messages by removing certain
parameters from the message, and operators need to determine which parameters
can be removed without affecting services.
Solution #10 reduce values of parameters of array or map type in NF discovery
response, while solution #6 reduce unnecessary parameters. And they could be
applicable to different scenarios.
Solution #10 could apply on most parameters of array or map type, while
solution #6 might be applicable to a few scenarios and hard to define the
rules for reducing which kind of parameters.
# 8 Conclusions
## 8.1 Conclusion of Solutions for Key Issue#1
The following principles are concluded for key issue #1:
1\. For backwards compatibility, the selected solution shall make use of the
supported feature negotiation mechanism.
2\. For forward compatibility, the selected solution shall try to avoid the
need to standardize, which data are shareable.
3\. Whether new NF services are needed will be decided during normative work.
4\. The selected solution shall allow to take advantage of the NF set concept,
by defining NF Set profiles. NF set profiles may contain one or more shared
data IDs pointing to PLMN-level shared data.
5\. The selected solution shall allow to use shared-data concept across NFs
not belonging to an NF-Set.
6\. The selected solution should avoid the need for shared data configuration
at multiple NFs within the network. The solutions of both OAM based and OAM-
less solution will be further worked on during normative phase of work.
7\. The NRF should optionally allow other NFs to register (and modify and
delete) those NfSetProfiles/Shared Data at the NRF the other NFs may make use
of. The details are ffs during normative work.
8\. The NRF shall allow other NFs to retrieve (and subscribe to)
NfSetProfiles/Shared Data
9\. The selected solution shall ensure that a change of NfSetProfile/Shared
Data is propagated between NF set and NRF set involving only one NF instance
from the NF set and only one NRF instance from the NRF set.
10\. The selected solution shall allow to avoid the need of including large
lists of UE Routing Indicators in NF profiles registered at the NRF, e.g. by
NRF configuration or by interaction with the UDR.
## 8.2 Conclusion of Solutions for Key Issue#2
Based on the evaluation of solutions for key issue#2, it is recommended to
adapt solution #10 as basis for normative work. With solution#10, NF discovery
response messages could be greatly simplified in most scenarios of inter PLMN
by reducing values of parameters of array or map type in the messages, while
these parameters cannot not be removed from the messages.
The new indication added to NF discovery response is optional, and NF consumer
could either ignore it without any impact, or do extension processing with it.
It is FFS what the impact of the new indication in NF discovery response on NF
consumer, and whether it is necessary.
#