# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage one description of the Voice Group
Call Service (VGCS) which allows speech conversation of a predefined group of
service subscribers in half duplex mode on the radio link taking into account
multiple mobile service subscribers involved in the VGCS call per cell.
The VGCS is applicable to all mobile stations in a certain network and area
which have the technical capability and the corresponding subscription,
respectively, to participate in a VGCS call.
NOTE: It is not considered as requirement that normal GSM phase 2 mobile
stations will be able to be used for this service.
The service is described from the service subscriber's and user's point of
view; in particular:
\- the procedure for normal operation with successful outcome;
\- the action to be taken in exceptional circumstances;
\- the interaction with other GSM services and features.
The present document does not deal with the Man-Machine Interface (MMI)
requirements, but makes reference to the appropriate Global System for Mobile
Communications (GSM) specifications.
The present document defines a teleservice of the digital cellular
telecommunications system GSM. Any interaction with other services and/or
networks not dealt with in clauses 7 or 8 are outside the scope of the present
document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.067: \"enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service
(eMLPP); Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.005: \"Telecommunications management; Charging management; 3G
call and event data for the Circuit Switched (CS) domain\".
[4] 3GPP TS 43.020: \"Security-related network functions\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Network operator:** Entity which provides the network operating elements and
resources for the execution of the VGCS.
**Service provider:** Entity which offers the VGCS for subscription. The
network operator may be the service provider.
**Voice group call** : An instance of the VGCS initiated by a subscriber. This
term is used synonymously with the term "VGCS call".
**Service subscriber:** Mobile subscriber which subscribes to the VGCS.
**Group identification (group ID):** A numerical classification. The maximum
number of group Ids which can be defined in one PLMN depends on the maximum
number of group call areas defined in this PLMN. The maximum number of group
Ids and group call areas combined is 108, Service subscriber shall be provided
with one or up to 50 group Ids.
**Dispatcher:** Particular fixed line or mobile users are identified within
the network as dispatchers. Dispatchers shall receive all voice group calls to
a certain group ID in a group call area (this shall be done automatically by
the network). In addition they can initiate voice group calls to a group ID in
a group call area.
Dispatchers shall be connected to a voice group call by means of standard
links via radio or via an ISDN. They shall be called by their MSISDN or ISDN
number, respectively. When dispatchers initiate voice group calls, they shall
call a particular MSISDN number which is related to a group ID and group call
area. Dispatchers using the GSM network can be located outside of this group
call area.
The identities of the dispatchers are exclusively predefined in the network by
the service provider. There may be none, one or more dispatchers involved in a
particular voice group call.
As a mandatory network requirement, a configuration of up to 5 dispatchers
shall be supported. Optionally, up to a maximum of 20 dispatchers may be
configured for a particular group call reference.
**Destination service subscriber:** Service subscriber to which the VGCS call
is directed.
**Calling service subscriber:** Service subscriber which originates the VGCS
call.
**Calling dispatcher** : dispatcher which originates the VGCS call.
**Destination dispatcher** : Pre-registered dispatcher to which the VGCS call
is directed.
**Destination subscriber** : Destination dispatcher(s) and/ or destination
service subscriber(s) to which the VGCS call is directed.
**Group call area** : Predefined area composed of one or a cluster of cells to
which a particular VGCS call is distributed. The maximum number of group call
area Ids which can be defined in one PLMN depends on the maximum number of
group Ids defined in this PLMN. The maximum number of group Ids and group call
areas combined is 108, The composition of a group call area is predefined in
the network by the service provider. Changing of cell allocation in the
network due to operational reasons will need an adaptation of the group call
area definition. The group call area may include more then one MSC area and
cells of more than one PLMN.
**Group call member:** Any service subscriber or dispatcher participating in
an on going voice group call.
**Listener:** see Listening service subscriber
**Listening service subscriber:** Service subscriber who is listening to an
ongoing voice group call.
**Originator-to-dispatcher information** : Information sent by the service
subscriber originating a voice group call to the network during call setup for
distribution to the dispatchers to be attached to the group call during call
setup.
**Talker: see Talking service subscriber**
**Talking service subscriber:** Service subscriber who is currently allowed to
talk to other group call members.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905.
# 4 Description
The VGCS is defined in the following. Figure 1 gives an explanation of the
logical concept of the VGCS.
a) The VGCS enables a calling service subscriber or calling dispatcher to
establish a voice group call to destination subscribers belonging to a
predefined group call area and group ID.
Applications for voice group call services typically involve multiple group
members in a small group call area, for which the VGCS should provide spectrum
efficient solutions.
b) The calling service subscriber as well as the destination service >
subscribers may be any service subscriber which has subscribed to > the
related group ID. The calling dispatcher may be any dispatcher > who is
entitled to originate VGCS calls to the related call > reference.
c) Destination subscribers are all destination service subscribers or a >
group of destination service subscribers identified by the called > group ID
which have their present location in the group call area, > and pre-registered
destination dispatchers. Destination service > subscribers shall be notified
with the group ID, not by paging the > subscriber individually. Destination
dispatchers shall be called > individually with their identity.
Service subscribers may become late destination subscribers when entering the
group call area within 500 ms after reception of the first notification
message related to the VGCS call. Service subscribers which leave the
corresponding group call area during an on going VGCS call of which they are
member cease to be destination subscribers.
d) The voice group call shall be established in a group call area which is
comprised of one or a cluster of cells. Group call areas shall be predefined
in the network by the service provider, co-ordinated by the network operator.
In case of a calling service subscriber initiating a VGCS, the group call area
is uniquely identified by the actual cell in which the service subscriber
resides at the moment of VGCS call initialization and by the group ID they
issue.
A calling dispatcher initiating a VGCS call will be connected to a related
predefined group call area. The entitlement of the dispatcher is checked by
the network element responsible for the voice group call management by
verification of the calling identity. Since a dispatcher may be registered to
more than one group call area and group ID an indication of the wanted group
call area and group ID has to be given in form of a dedicated address called
by the dispatcher.
e) The service shall permit only one talking service subscriber at any moment;
additionally all dispatchers may be talking simultaneously at one time.
Dispatchers should hear all combinations of voices other than their own.
Listening service subscribers shall hear the combination of all voices. The
talking service subscriber shall be given some indication if any dispatchers
are also talking.
NOTE 1: The indication may be just the dispatcher's voice.
> A dispatcher shall be able to talk at any moment , but the network operator
> may require him to signal the wish to talk to the network. If the network
> operator requires a dispatcher to indicate his wish to talk then a
> dispatcher in that network shall also indicate that he has finished
> speaking.
>
> Service subscribers who wish to talk shall indicate this. They shall only be
> able to become talking subscribers if there is no other talking service
> subscriber. The right to be a talking service subscriber is allocated on a
> first come first served basis without queuing. Once a service subscriber has
> become a talking subscriber they shall eventually indicate their wish to
> become a listening subscriber, or the network may detect that they are no
> longer a talking subscriber due to time-out or other mechanisms.
CW and procedures for supplementary service management are not possible for a
service subscriber.
f) A voice group call will be considered established as soon as the
originating cell in case of a service subscriber originated voice group call,
or any one cell within the group call area in case of a dispatcher originated
voice group call has been included.\ \ The calling service subscriber or
calling dispatcher shall be informed by the network with a suitable indication
about the successful establishment of the voice group call so that he can
start to speak.\ \ The network shall then continue to try to include all
remaining voice group call downlink channels and alert related dispatchers not
yet alerted.
The system provides that for an established voice group call the uplink
assignment to a service subscriber who wishes to talk is performed under
normal conditions in \ The data may be time critical, in which case transfer shall be within a
> short time period (with a target of not more than 500ms) without impacting
> voice quality of the group call.
Note 3: The achievement of the transfer times depends on technical
realizations and network planning. E.g. in order to achieve a transfer time of
500 ms or less, it may be necessary to restrict the group call area to one
single MSC area.
> For contention resolution purposes, a service subscriber request to send
> application-specific data may be assigned a higher priority than a 'normal'
> or 'privilege' request to talk or a lower priority than all requests to
> talk.
s) Optionally, it shall be possible for a VGCS application (in an external
server or network-based) to send a small amount of application-specific data
to the network for distribution to group call members. The network shall
distribute the data to the service subscribers and to dispatchers connected to
the group call, subject to information available in the network and/ or
provided by the VGCS application,
t) Optionally, it shall be possible for service subscribers in a voice group
call, dispatchers in a voice group call and a VGCS application (in external
server or network-based) to receive a small amount of application-specific
data.
u) Optionally, it shall be possible for a service subscriber in a voice group
call to send an application-specific indication for a VGCS application in the
network (or in an external server). Subject to information available in the
network and/ or provided by the sender or VGCS application, an acknowledgement
may be returned.
> For contention resolution purposes, a service subscriber request to send an
> application-specific indication may be assigned a higher priority than a
> 'normal' or 'privilege' request to talk or a lower priority than all
> requests to talk.
v) Optionally, it shall be possible for the network to gather information on
the identities of current listeners within a specified time interval, and to
inform dispatchers on the identities of current listeners. Also, this
information may be provided to service subscribers.
{width="4.479861111111111in" height="5.495833333333334in"}
Note 4: VGCS1, VGCS2, VGCS3 = particular voice group calls with the attributes
pre-registered in the network.
A, B, C, D = service subscriber with group ID a, b, c or d, respectively.
II, III, IV = group call areas.
w, x, y, z = dispatchers connected via normal GSM links or external networks.
Figure 1: Logical concept of the VGCS
# 5 Normal operation with successful outcome
## 5.1 Provision
The VGCS is provided to be used by the service subscriber after prior
arrangements with the service provider. The provision includes the assignment
of group Ids to the service subscriber. A subscription shall not provide more
than 50 group Ids to the service subscriber.
The service can be offered with one subscription option:
* * *
**Subscription option** **Value** \- subscriber has the capability of
initiating voice group calls in case of roaming - No \- Yes.
* * *
## 5.2 Withdrawal
The VGCS is withdrawn at the service provider's request or for administrative
reasons.
## 5.3 Network related service configuration
The network related service configuration defines the attributes of a
particular voice group call which shall be pre-registered in the network by
the service provider. This is not related to one specific service subscriber.
The attributes of a particular voice group call are group ID, group call area
composition, a list of dispatcher identities to be connected to this area, a
list of dispatchers allowed to initiate voice group calls to this area, the
group call reference which shall be used in case of COLP (see subclause 7.3)
and recipient identities to which an optional acknowledgement can be routed.
Changes to the group call area composition shall be co-ordinated with the
network operator.
### 5.3.1 Void
## 5.4 Normal operation for voice group call establishment
The VGCS shall be automatically initiated by the network when a calling
service subscriber or calling dispatcher dials a particular short code or
address at call set-up.
On successful initiation of the VGCS, the voice group call shall be
established between the calling service subscriber or calling dispatcher and
the destination subscribers. The destination subscribers are:
\- all destination service subscribers at any time during the voice group call
with the corresponding active group ID when located in the group call area
where the group call area is uniquely defined by:
\- the location (radio cell) of the calling service subscriber at invocation
if the call is originated by a calling service subscriber;
\- the addressed group call area if the call is originated by a calling
dispatcher;
\- the pre-registered destination dispatchers related to that group call area
and group ID.
The calling service subscriber or calling dispatcher shall be informed by the
network with a suitable indication about the successful establishment of the
voice group call so that the user can start to speak.
The call can be released by the calling service subscriber or by the calling
dispatcher or by the network or by an entitled dispatcher predefined in the
network.
Destination subscribers may exit the voice group call separately without
releasing the complete voice group call.
## 5.5 Charging requirements
Event data may be recorded as a network option as defined in 3G TS 32.005 for
all VGCS calls to one group ID in a specific group call area. In addition
other data to be passed to the anchor MSC for charging purposes are the
identities of the talking subscribers, the time in which they were active and
the resources (i.e. cell identities) used during a call.
## 5.6 Security requirements
VGCS shall be able to support over-the-air ciphering in order to provide
confidentiality protection to group calls.
VGCS ciphering is an operator's option.
VGCS shall provide means such that only a legitimate service subscriber is
able to participate in a ciphered VGCS call when the operator requires
confidentiality protection for the group call. To include a subscriber into a
ciphered voice group the required group data shall be stored on the USIM.
Storing these group data on the USIM may be done e.g. during the USIM
personalisation process or via OTA (over-the-air) provisioning.
> \- If the operator configures confidentiality protection for p-t-p SMS over
> the CS domain then, it shall also apply when a p-t-p SMS is sent/ received
> by VGCS group call members in parallel to the voice group call.
>
> \- If the operator configures confidentiality protection for the group call
> then, confidentiality protection at least equivalent to that provided for
> the ongoing group call shall apply when a group call member sends a SMS to
> the group call.
>
> \- If the operator configures confidentiality protection for p-t-p SMS over
> the CS domain then, it shall also apply to a SMS which is sent by a group
> call member to a different group, in parallel to the voice group call.
>
> \- If the operator configures confidentiality protection for the group call
> then, confidentiality protection at least equivalent to that provided for
> the ongoing group call shall apply when a SMS is delivered to group call
> members,
A pre- Rel-6 VGCS capable mobile shall be able to participate in an un-
ciphered group call, if it is part of that group.
An operator shall be able to guarantee privacy for a SMS sent by a group call
member to a different group. This ensures that the SMS cannot be intercepted
by members of the sender's group.
# 6 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
If a service subscriber wants to establish a voice group call while not
subscribed to the service or the network cannot provide the service for some
reason, an indication will be provided to the calling service subscriber to
notify him of the reason of failure.
If a dispatcher wants to establish a voice group call while not entitled to do
it or the network cannot provide the service for some reason, the call shall
be rejected. The network shall give an appropriate indication to calling
dispatchers who are GSM subscribers.
A voice group call will be considered established as soon as the originating
cell in case of a service subscriber originated voice group call or any one
cell within the group call area in case of a dispatcher originated voice group
call has been included . If this cannot be achieved within a specified time
the call will be released.
If a cell is excluded from the group call area because of pre-emption, the
voice group call shall be maintained.
# 7 Interaction with other GSM services
## 7.1 Calling Line Identification Presentation (CLIP)
If CLIP is applied, the group call reference -- including the group call area
ID and the group ID -- shall be presented to the destination dispatchers. In
addition the subaddress field of the calling party may be used to identify the
calling service subscriber or calling dispatcher to the destination
dispatchers.
The receiving mobile stations of the destination service subscribers shall
display the paged group ID regardless the destination service subscribers have
a subscription to CLIP.
## 7.2 Calling Line Identification Restriction (CLIR)
CLIR shall be supported.
The network shall have the possibility to override CLIR or reject the request
to establish a voice group call for a calling service subscriber or calling
dispatcher who has CLIR activated.
## 7.3 Connected Line Identification Presentation (COLP)
If COLP is applied, the group call reference -- including the group call area
ID and the group ID -- shall be presented to the calling dispatcher. No
destination subscriber identities will be presented.
Calling service subscribers receive the group call reference via standard
group call setup messaging. COLP therefore does not apply to service
subscribers.
## 7.4 Connected Line Identification Restriction (COLR)
COLR is not applicable to voice group calls.
## 7.5 Call Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
CFU is not applicable to voice group calls of service subscribers when
activate and operative, i.e. CFU shall be ignored.
CFU is applicable for dispatchers, i.e. voice group calls are forwarded by
CFU.
## 7.6 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Busy (CFB)
CFB is not applicable to voice group calls of service subscribers with CFB
active and operative.
CFB is applicable for dispatchers if the voice group call does not have a
higher priority than the present call.
## 7.7 Call Forwarding on No Reply (CFNRy)
CFNRy is not applicable to voice group calls of service subscribers with CFNRy
active and operative.
CFNRy is applicable for dispatchers, i.e. voice group calls are forwarded by
CFNRy.
## 7.8 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc)
CFNRc is not applicable to voice group calls of service subscribers with CFNRc
active and operative.
CFNRc is applicable for dispatchers, i.e. voice group calls are forwarded by
CFNRc.
## 7.9 Call Waiting (CW)
CW is not applicable for service subscribers. Instead, as a network option, a
notification of paging for other calls shall be given to the service
subscribers involved in the voice group call.
CW is applicable for dispatchers. Subject to the capabilities of the UE and
the serving network it shall be possible for a dispatcher to receive
additional information of the talker when accepting a waiting voice group
call.
Subject to the capabilities of the UE and the serving network it shall be
possible for a dispatcher to receive an emergency indication for a waiting
voice group call.
## 7.10 Call Hold (HOLD)
Call hold is not applicable for service subscribers. For handling of parallel
group calls to the same destination subscriber see item i) of clause 4.
The acceptance of a voice group call by a service subscriber while being in a
point-to-point call shall release the point-to-point call. This release will
be invoked by the mobile station.
If a voice group call is requested by a service subscriber while being in a
point-to-point call, the point-to-point call shall be released. This release
will be invoked by the mobile station.
Call hold is applicable for dispatchers. Subject to the capabilities of the UE
and the serving network it shall be possible for a dispatcher to receive
additional information of the talker when retrieving a held voice group call.
Subject to the capabilities of the UE and the serving network it shall be
possible for a dispatcher to receive an emergency indication and an indication
that the emergency situation has ended for a held voice group call.
## 7.11 Multi-party Service (MPTY)
MPTY is not applicable for service subscribers.
MPTY is applicable for dispatchers, subject to the capabilities of the UE and
the serving network.
## 7.12 Closed User Group (CUG)
CUG is not applicable for service subscribers. Consequently, being a member of
a CUG has no impact on receiving and establishing voice group calls.
CUG is applicable for dispatchers. Therefore a dispatcher who is a member of a
CUG may be excluded from originating, joining and receiving group calls
subject to the capabilities of the UE and the serving network.
## 7.13 Advice of Charge (AoC)
AoC is not applicable.
## 7.14 Barring of All Outgoing Calls (BAOC)
BAOC is applicable, if subscribed to, with the possible exception of high
priority voice group calls.
## 7.15 Barring of Outgoing International Calls (BOIC)
BOIC is not applicable for voice group calls of service subscribers.
BOIC is applicable for dispatchers.
## 7.16 Barring of Outgoing International Calls except those to the Home PLMN
country (BOIC-exHC)
BOIC-exHC is not applicable for voice group calls of service subscribers.
BOIC-exHC is applicable for dispatchers.
## 7.17 Barring of All Incoming Calls (BAIC)
BAIC is not applicable for voice group calls to service subscribers.
BAIC is applicable for dispatchers.
## 7.18 Barring of Incoming Calls when Roaming outside the home PLMN country
(BIC-Roam)
BIC-Roam is not applicable for voice group calls to service subscribers.
BIC-Roam is applicable for dispatchers.
## 7.19 Explicit Call Transfer (ECT)
ECT is not applicable for service subscribers.
ECT is applicable for dispatchers, subject to the capabilities of the UE and
the serving network.
Note: Dispatcher rights may not be transferred.
## 7.20 Enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service (eMLPP)
Different priorities with corresponding set-up procedures are applicable as
defined in the stage 1 description of eMLPP in 3G TS 22.067.
## 7.21 Short Message Service (SMS)
Subject to capabilities of the UE and the serving network, it shall be
possible for the talking service subscriber, the listening service subscriber
or dispatcher in a voice group call as well as for other initiators of short
messages that are not part of the voice group call to send short messages to
the group call -- addressed by the group call reference - for which delivery
will be attempted only one time i.e. there is no re-try mechanism for short
messages to group calls.
It shall be possible for the VGCS service provider to configure the short
message service to a particular group in such a way that short messages to
established group calls are either supported or not supported. If supported
then the message shall be delivered immediately to the established group call.
A receipt confirmation, containing the group call reference of the voice group
call, may be returned to the sender of the short message. However no receipt
confirmation shall be returned by individual members of the voice group call.
Optionally the VGCS may trigger an SMS being sent back to the sender,
containing information as to whether or not the group call was established at
time of sending.
Subject to capabilities of the UE, service subscribers who have activated the
group ID and are currently in the established group call shall be able to
receive the content of short messages sent to the group call.
Subject to capabilities of the UE and the serving network, dispatchers who are
connected to the group call, shall be able to receive the content of short
messages sent to the group call.
The terminal shall treat the received content in the same way as if it would
have been received by the normal SMS mechanism.
During an ongoing group call it shall be possible for the talker as well as
the listener to send and receive point to point short messages.
Support of Short Message Service is optional in VGCS.
## 7.22 Operator Determined Barring (ODB)
Same as for subscriber controlled barring.
## 7.23 Completion of Calls to Busy Subscribers (CCBS)
The CCBS supplementary service is only applicable for dispatchers and not for
VGCS service subscribers.
If a new terminating p-t-p call is set up to a dispatcher who is busy because
of an active VGCS call, it shall be possible to allow the calling party to
apply the CCBS service. If the dispatcher initiates a VGCS call and the called
group ID has been active, then the dispatcher shall be connected to the
ongoing VGCS call.
## 7.24 GPRS
Depending on the capabilities of the UE it shall be possible for the mobile
dispatcher, the talking service subscriber as well as for the listening
service subscriber to use GPRS in parallel to the VGCS subject to the
capabilities of the serving network.
# 8 Interworking considerations
No specific requirements are identified.
#