# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines limited sets of channel types, access
capabilities and channel configurations at reference point Um (radio
interface).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
> For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
> reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
> reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
> same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 44.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Mobile Station (MS)
- Base Station System (BSS) interface; Radio Link Control/Medium Access
Control (RLC/MAC) protocol\".
[4] 3GPP TS 45.002: \"Multiplexing and Multiple Access on the Radio Path\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 apply.
# 4 General definitions
A channel represents a specified portion of the information-carrying capacity
of an interface.
Channels are classified by channel types, which have common characteristics.
Channel types appearing on the radio interface are specified in clauses 3 and
4.
At a given time, the complete interface between a Base Station and the set of
Mobile Stations in relation corresponds to some interface structure. The
interface structure may change in time. The number of possible different such
interface structures can be large. The BS access capability is a description
of all the possible interface structures of the considered BS. BS access
capabilities are specified in sub-clause 8.
At a given moment, the channel configuration of a Mobile Station is the
interface structure this Mobile Station actually uses to transmit information
to or receive information from the Base Station. The channel configuration may
change in time. A limited number of channel configurations are identified, and
are specified in sub-clause 9.
A Mobile Station access capability is the description of the set of its
possible channel configurations. MS access capabilities are specified in sub-
clause 8.
# 5 Channel types and their use: Traffic channels and user channels
## 5.1 User channels
User channels are intended to carry a wide variety of user information
streams. A distinguishing characteristic is that user channels do not carry
signalling information for Connection Management (CM), Mobility Management
(MM) or Radio Resource (RR) management. This signalling information is carried
over other types of channels, namely the control channels.
User channels may be used to provide access to the PLMN and the networks it
permits access to.
Different types of user channels are distinguished by their rates.
## 5.2 Bm Channel
A Bm channel is a bi-directional or uni-directional user channel able to
carry:
\- a 13 kbit/s rate bit stream with an error structure and a transmission
delay compatible with some grade of service, intended to carry voice encoded
according to Technical Specifications in 3GPP TS 06‑series; or
\- a bit stream at a rate of 14,5 kbit/s, 12 kbit/s, 6 kbit/s or 3,6 kbit/s,
with an error structure and a transmission delay adapted to a wider range of
services, including data transmission; or other kinds of bit stream adapted to
a wider range of services (for further study).
User information streams are carried on the Bm channel on a dedicated,
alternate (within one call or as separate calls), or simultaneous basis,
consistent with the Bm channel carrying capability. The following are samples
of user information streams:
i) voice encoded at 13 kbit/s according to Technical Specifications in 3GPP TS
06-series; and
ii) data information corresponding to circuit switching user classes of
services at bit rates compatible with the channel capability.
A Bi-directional Bm Channel uses the radio resources referred to as TCH/F. Bi-
directional downlink Bm Channel uses the radio resources referred to as
TCH/FD. The Uni-directional Bm Channel is only defined in downlink direction.
Traffic channels (TCH) are fixed physical gross rate channels, accompanied
with timing (see 3GPP TS 45.002).
## 5.3 Lm Channels
A Lm channel is a user channel with a carrying capability lower than a Bm
channel.
A Lm channel is a user channel able to carry:
\- some bit stream to be defined with an error structure and a transmission
delay compatible with some grade of service, intended to carry voice encoded
according to a method to be defined;
\- a bit stream at a rate of 6 kbit/s or 3,6 kbit/s, with an error structure
and a transmission delay adapted to a wider range of services, including data
transmission; or
\- other kinds of bit stream adapted to a wider range of services (for further
study).
User information streams are carried on a Lm channel on a dedicated, alternate
(within one call or as separate calls), or simultaneous basis, consistent with
the TCH/H channel carrying capability. The following are samples of user
information streams:
i) voice encoded at some rate according to a method to be specified in the
future; and
ii) data information corresponding to circuit switching user classes of
services at bit rates compatible with the channel capability.
A Lm Channel uses the radio resources referred to as TCH/H. Traffic channels
(TCH) are fixed physical gross rate channels, accompanied with timing (see
3GPP TS 45.002).
# 6 Channel types and their use: Packet data traffic channels
Packet data traffic channels are used to carry a wide variety of information
streams, including user information and signalling information for, e.g.
Session Management (SM) and Mobility Management (MM) in packet mode. A
distinguishing characteristic is that a packet data traffic channel allows a
plurality of information streams, associated with different users, to be
multiplexed in a pre-emptive and dynamic fashion. Signalling functions between
the MS and the BSS are carried out over other types of channels, namely the
control channels.
Uni-directional information streams are carried on the packet data traffic
channel on an alternate, or simultaneous basis, consistent with the packet
data traffic channel carrying capability. The packet data traffic channel uses
the radio resources referred to as PDTCH (see 3GPP TS 45.002).
# 7 Channel types and their use: Control channels
NOTE: The term \"Dm channel\" may be used to refer to the controls channels
used by a Mobile Station at a given moment, independently of their type. (The
term \"Dm channel\" in conjunction with the packet control channels shall be
avoided.)
Control channels are used to provide all active Mobile Stations with a
continuous frame oriented means of communication across the MS-BS interface.
A Mobile Station Channel Configuration contains one or more control channels.
These control channels may change in time, with the channel configuration.
Access management signalling functions are used to insure the continuity when
a change in the control channels occurs.
Control channels are classified by control channel types, which have common
characteristics. These control channel types are specified in sub-clause 7.1.
The control channels are primarily intended to carry signalling information
for Connection Management (CM), Mobility Management (MM) and Radio Resource
(RR) management.
In addition to signalling information control channels may also be used to
carry other data, including those relating to Short Message Services (SMS).
## 7.1 Control channel types
### 7.1.1 Broadcast Control Channel
A broadcast control channel is a point-to-multipoint uni-directional control
channel, from the fixed sub-system to the Mobile Stations. Broadcast control
channels are physically sub-divided into the Broadcast Control CHannel (BCCH)
, Packet Broadcast Control CHannel (PBCCH), and Compact Packet Broadcast
cControl CHannel (CPBCCH).
BCCH, PBCCH, and CPBCCH are intended to broadcast a variety of information to
MSs, including information necessary for MS to register in the system (e.g.
synchronization data).
BCCH, PBCCH, and CPBCCH use a protocol specified in Technical Specifications
in 3GPP TS 04-Series.
### 7.1.2 Common Control Channel
A common control channel is a point-to-multipoint bi-directional control
channel. Common control channels are physically sub-divided into the Common
Control CHannel (CCCH), the Packet Common Control CHannel (PCCCH), and the
Compact Packet Common Control CHannel (CPCCCH).
CCCH, PCCCH, and CPCCCH are primarily intended to carry signalling information
necessary for access management functions (e.g., allocation of dedicated
channels or radio resource on a packet data traffic channel). The CCCH can be
used for other signalling purposes.
CCCH, PCCCH, and CPCCCH use a layered protocol according to Technical
Specifications in 3GPP TS 04-Series. In particular the multipoint to point
management is achieved through random access techniques.
The following terms may be used when the context requires it:
> \- The RACH (Random Access CHannel) is the uplink (MS to network) part of
> the CCCH.
>
> \- The PRACH (Packet Random Access CHannel) is the uplink part of the PCCCH.
>
> \- The CPRACH (Compact Packet Random Access CHannel) is the uplink part of
> the CPCCCH.
>
> \- The AGCH (Access Grant CHannel) is the part of the downlink (network to
> MS) part of the CCCH reserved for assignment messages.
>
> \- The PAGCH (Packet Access Grant CHannel) is the part of the downlink part
> of the PCCCH used for assignment messages.
>
> \- The CPAGCH (Compact Packet Access Grant CHannel) is the part of the
> downlink part of the CPCCCH used for assignment messages.
>
> \- The NCH (Notification CHannel) is the part of the downlink part of the
> CCCH reserved for voice group and/or voice broadcast calls notification
> messages.
>
> \- PCH (Paging CHannel) is the remaining part of the downlink part of the
> CCCH.
>
> \- PPCH (Packet Paging CHannel) is the remaining part of the downlink part
> of the PCCCH.
>
> \- CPPCH (Compact Packet Paging CHannel) is the remaining part of the
> downlink part of the CPCCCH.
### 7.1.3 Dedicated Control Channel (DCCH)
A Dedicated Control CHannel (DCCH) is a point-to-point bi-directional or uni-
directional control channel.
DCCHs exist with a variety of bit rates.
DCCHs are further classified as follows according to some technical
particularities:
A SDCCH (Stand-alone DCCH) is a bi-directional DCCH whose allocation is not
linked to the allocation of a TCH. The bit rate of a SDCCH is 598/765 kbit/s.
A FACCH (Fast Associated DCCH) is a bi-directional DCCH obtained by pre-
emptive dynamic multiplexing on respectively a TCH/F or a TCH/H channel. The
allocation of a FACCH is obviously linked to the allocation of a TCH. The bit
rate of a FACCH is 9 200 bit/s or 4 600 bit/s.
A SACCH (Slow Associated DCCH) is either a bi-directional or uni-directional
DCCH of rate 115/300 kbit/s or a bi-directional DCCH of rate 299/765 kbit/s.
An independent SACCH is always allocated together with a TCH or a SDCCH. The
co-allocated TCH and SACCH shall be either both bi-directional or both uni-
directional.
NOTE 1: A Multislot Configuration (described in sub-clause 9) is an example of
a case where uni-directional SACCHs may be used.
The terms Bm, or Bm + ACCHs can be used to refer to a Bm channel together with
the corresponding FACCH and the co-allocated SACCH when the context avoids any
ambiguities. Similar remarks apply to the terms Lm, Lm + ACCHs, Lm + Lm, Lm +
Lm + ACCHs. The term SDCCH can be used to refer specifically to a SDCCH
together with the co-allocated SACCH when the contexts avoids any ambiguities.
NOTE 2: TCH/F is sometimes used to designate Bm associated with its control
channel (FACCH and SACCH). TCH/H is sometime used to designate Lm associated
with its control channel (FACCH and SACCH).
A PACCH (Packet Associated Control CHannel) is a bi-directional DCCH obtained
by pre-emptive dynamic multiplexing on a PDTCH.
A PTCCH (Packet Timing Control CHannel) is a bi-directional DCCH carrying
synchronization data for a group of up to 16 MSs in packet transfer state (see
3GPP TS 44.060).
The DCCHs use a layered protocol according to Technical Specifications in 3GPP
TS 04- and 05-series.
# 8 BS access capability
The BS access capability is composed of:
one BCCH;
one CCCH physically related to the BCCH;
{{0 to 3 additional CCCHs; and a global resource.
OR:
BCCH, CCCH plus 4 SDCCHs and a global resource.}}
The global resource can be used to accommodate:
> i) n1 (Bm + FACCH + SACCH);
>
> ii) 2n2 (Lm + FACCH + SACCH);
>
> iii) 8n3 (SDCCH of rate 598/765 kbit/s + SACCH);
>
> iv) n4 (Bm + SACCH);
>
> v) n5 (PBCCH + PCCCH + PDTCH + PACCH + PTCCH);
>
> vi) n6 (PCCCH + PDTCH + PACCH + PTCCH);
>
> vii) n7 (PBCCH + PCCCH); and
>
> viii) n8 (PDTCH + PACCH + PTCCH);
with the constraints: n5 = 0 or 1;
n5 > 0 implies that n7 = 0;
n7 > 0 implies that n5 = 0 and n6 = 0; and
n1 + n2 + n3 + n4 + n5 + n6 + n7 + n8 lower than some value characterizing the
BS access capability.
The exact use of the global resource may vary in time.
For Compact, the BS access capability is composed of:
CPBCCH;
> CPCCCH physically related to the CPBCCH;
>
> {{and a global resource.}}
The global resource can be used to accommodate:
> i) n9 (PDTCH + PACCH + PTCCH);
>
> n9 lower than some value characterizing the BS access capability.
The exact use of the global resources may vary in time.
# 9 Channel configurations
At a given moment, a Mobile Station accesses only a limited number of channels
appearing on its radio interface. Different compositions for the accessed
channels set are identified, and specified below.
Different channel configurations are:
> i) BCCH;
>
> ii) CCCH;
>
> iii) CCCH + BCCH;
>
> iv) SDCCH + SACCH;
>
> v) Bm + FACCH + SACCH;
>
> vi) Lm + FACCH + SACCH;
>
> vii) Lm + Lm + FACCH + SACCH;
>
> viii) ( n + m ) Bm + FACCH + ( n + m ) SACCH;
>
> where n is the number of bi-directional channels and m is the number of uni-
> directional channels (n = 1..8, m = 0..7, n + m = 1..i);
>
> ix) PCCCH + PBCCH;
>
> x) ( n + m ) PDTCH + PACCH + PTCCH
>
> where n is the number of channel allowing information streams in both
> directions and m is the number of channels allowing information streams in
> one direction (n = 0..8, m = 0..8, n + m = 1..8).
>
> xi) CPBCCH;
>
> xii) CPCCCH;
>
> xiii) CPCCCH + CPBCCH
Configurations i) and xi) are normally used only in the phase when the
physical connection is not set (i.e. just after switch-on, or after a too long
interruption of the physical connection due to poor propagation conditions).
Configurations ii) or iii) are used by active but idle MS or MS in packet wait
state (see GSM 44.060).
Configurations iv) is used in phases when only a dedicated control channel is
needed.
Configurations v) to viii) are used in particular when a circuit-switched
communication is in progress.
Configuration viii) is a Multislot Configuration. Possible combinations of bi-
and uni-directional channels are defined in 3GPP TS 45.002.
Configurations ix), xii), and xiii) are used by MS in packet wait state.
Configuration x) is a Multislot Configuration on packet data traffic channels.
Possible combinations of bi- and uni- directional channels are defined in 3GPP
TS 45.002.
In addition, a MS of GPRS MS class A (see 3GPP TS 22.060) may combine one of
the configurations i) to viii) (to support GSM circuit switched services and
SMS) with one of the configurations ii), iii), ix), or x) (to support GSM GPRS
services).
## 9.1 Mandatory capabilities
The following access capabilities are mandatory for all MSs.
\- All MSs supporting circuit-switched services shall support SDCCH.
\- If a given service is supported by an MS on a TCH/H, this MS shall support
this service on a TCH/F (but not necessarily vice versa).
\- An MS supporting a service on TCH/F shall support the signalling only mode
on TCH/F as well as the signalling modes associated with the TCH/F.
\- An MS supporting a service on TCH/H shall support the signalling only mode
on TCH/F as well as the signalling modes associated with the TCH/H.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Change History