# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the character sets, languages and message
handling requirements for SMS, CBS and USSD and may additionally be used for
Man Machine Interface (MMI) (3GPP TS 22.030 [2]).
The specification for the Data Circuit terminating Equipment/Data Terminal
Equipment (DCE/DTE) interface (3GPP TS 27.005 [8]) will also use the codes
specified herein for the transfer of SMS data to an external terminal.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] void
[2] 3GPP TS 22.030: \"Man-Machine Interface (MMI) of the User Equipment
(UE)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.090: \"Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) - Stage
2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.040: \"Technical realization of the Short Message Service (SMS)
\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.041: \"Technical realization of Cell Broadcast Service (CBS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 24.011: \"Point-to-Point (PP) Short Message Service (SMS) support
on mobile radio interface\".
[7] Void.
[8] 3GPP TS 27.005: \"Use of Data Terminal Equipment - Data Circuit
terminating Equipment (DTE - DCE) interface for Short Message Service (SMS)
and Cell Broadcast Service (CBS)\".
[10] ISO/IEC 10646: \"Information technology; Universal Multiple-Octet Coded
Character Set (UCS)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 24.090: \"Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD); Stage
3\".
[12] ISO 639: \"Code for the representation of names of languages\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.042: \"Compression algorithm for text messaging services\".
[14] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[15] \"Wireless Datagram Protocol Specification\", Wireless Application
Protocol Forum Ltd.
[16] ISO 1073-1 and ISO 1073-2 Alphanumeric character sets for optical
recognition -- Parts 1 and 2: Character sets OCR-A and OCR-B, respectively -
Shapes and dimensions of the printed image.
[17] 3GPP TS 31.102: \"Characteristics of the USIM application\"
[18] 3GPP TS 51.011 Release 4 (version 4.x.x): "Specification of the
Subscriber Identity Module - Mobile Equipment (SIM - ME) interface"
[19] 3GPP TS 24.294: \"IMS Centralized Services (ICS) Protocol via I1
Interface\".
[20] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
[21] 3GPP TS 24.301: \" Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for Evolved Packet
System (EPS); Stage 3\".
# 3 Abbreviations and definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**National Language Identifier:** A code representing a specific language and
thereby selecting a specific National Language Table.
**National Language Locking Shift Table:** A national language table which
replaces the GSM 7 bit default alphabet table in the case where the locking
shift mechanism as defined in subclause 6.2.1.2.3 is used.
**National Language Single Shift Table:** A national language table which
replaces the GSM 7 bit default alphabet extension table in the case where the
single shift mechanism as defined in subclause 6.2.1.2.2 is used.
**National Language Table:** A table containing the characters of a specific
national language.
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations used in the
present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905 [14].
# 4 SMS Data Coding Scheme
The TP-Data-Coding-Scheme field, defined in 3GPP TS 23.040 [4], indicates the
data coding scheme of the TP‑UD field, and may indicate a message class. Any
reserved codings shall be assumed to be the GSM 7 bit default alphabet (the
same as codepoint 00000000) by a receiving entity. The octet is used according
to a coding group which is indicated in bits 7..4. The octet is then coded as
follows:
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Coding Group Bits | Use of bits 3..0 | | | | | 7..4 | | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | 00xx | General Data Coding indication\ | | | Bits 5..0 indicate the following:\ | | | \ | | | Bit 5, if set to 0, indicates the text is | | | uncompressed\ | | | Bit 5, if set to 1, indicates the text is | | | compressed using the compression algorithm | | | defined in 3GPP TS 23.042 [13]\ | | | \ | | | Bit 4, if set to 0, indicates that bits 1 to 0 | | | are reserved and have no message class meaning | | | | | | Bit 4, if set to 1, indicates that bits 1 to 0 | | | have a message class meaning::\ | | | \ | | | Bit 1 Bit 0 Message Class\ | | | 0 0 Class 0\ | | | 0 1 Class 1 Default meaning: ME-specific.\ | | | 1 0 Class 2 (U)SIM specific message\ | | | 1 1 Class 3 Default meaning: TE specific (see | | | 3GPP TS 27.005 [8])\ | | | \ | | | Bits 3 and 2 indicate the character set being | | | used, as follows :\ | | | Bit 3 Bit2 Character set:\ | | | 0 0 GSM 7 bit default alphabet\ | | | 0 1 8 bit data\ | | | 1 0 UCS2 (16bit) [10]\ | | | 1 1 Reserved\ | | | \ | | | NOTE: The special case of bits 7..0 being 0000 | | | 0000 indicates the GSM 7 bit default alphabet | | | with no message class | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | 01xx | Message Marked for Automatic Deletion Group | | | | | | This group can be used by the SM originator to | | | mark the message ( stored in the ME or (U)SIM ) | | | for deletion after reading irrespective of the | | | message class. | | | | | | The way the ME will process this deletion | | | should be manufacturer specific but shall be | | | done without the intervention of the End User | | | or the targeted application. The mobile | | | manufacturer may optionally provide a means for | | | the user to prevent this automatic deletion. | | | | | | Bit 5..0 are coded exactly the same as Group | | | 00xx | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | 1000..1011 | Reserved coding groups | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | 1100 | Message Waiting Indication Group: Discard | | | Message | | | | | | The specification for this group is exactly the | | | same as for Group 1101, except that: | | | | | | - after presenting an indication and storing | | | the status, the ME may discard the contents of | | | the message. | | | | | | The ME shall be able to receive, process and | | | acknowledge messages in this group, | | | irrespective of memory availability for other | | | types of short message. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | 1101 | Message Waiting Indication Group: Store Message | | | | | | This Group defines an indication to be provided | | | to the user about the status of types of | | | message waiting on systems connected to the | | | GSM/UMTS PLMN. The ME should present this | | | indication as an icon on the screen, or other | | | MMI indication. The ME shall update the | | | contents of the Message Waiting Indication | | | Status on the SIM (see 3GPP TS 51.011 [18]) | | | or USIM (see 3GPP TS 31.102 [17]) when | | | present or otherwise should store the status in | | | the ME. In case there are multiple records of | | | EF~MWIS~ this information shall be stored | | | within the first record. The contents of the | | | Message Waiting Indication Status should | | | control the ME indicator. For each indication | | | supported, the mobile may provide storage for | | | the Origination Address. The ME may take note | | | of the Origination Address for messages in this | | | group and group 1100. | | | | | | Text included in the user data is coded in the | | | GSM 7 bit default alphabet.\ | | | Where a message is received with bits 7..4 set | | | to 1101, the mobile shall store the text of the | | | SMS message in addition to setting the | | | indication. The indication setting should take | | | place irrespective of memory availability to | | | store the short message. | | | | | | Bits 3 indicates Indication Sense:\ | | | \ | | | Bit 3\ | | | 0 Set Indication Inactive\ | | | 1 Set Indication Active\ | | | \ | | | Bit 2 is reserved, and set to 0\ | | | \ | | | Bit 1 Bit 0 Indication Type:\ | | | 0 0 Voicemail Message Waiting\ | | | 0 1 Fax Message Waiting\ | | | 1 0 Electronic Mail Message Waiting\ | | | 1 1 Other Message Waiting*\ | | | \ | | | * Mobile manufacturers may implement the | | | \"Other Message Waiting\" indication as an | | | additional indication without specifying the | | | meaning. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | 1110 | Message Waiting Indication Group: Store | | | Message\ | | | \ | | | The coding of bits 3..0 and functionality of | | | this feature are the same as for the Message | | | Waiting Indication Group above, (bits 7..4 set | | | to 1101) with the exception that the text | | | included in the user data is coded in the | | | uncompressed UCS2 character set. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | 1111 | Data coding/message class\ | | | \ | | | Bit 3 is reserved, set to 0.\ | | | \ | | | Bit 2 Message coding:\ | | | 0 GSM 7 bit default alphabet\ | | | 1 8-bit data\ | | | \ | | | Bit 1 Bit 0 Message Class:\ | | | 0 0 Class 0\ | | | 0 1 Class 1 default meaning: ME-specific.\ | | | 1 0 Class 2 (U)SIM-specific message.\ | | | 1 1 Class 3 default meaning: TE specific (see | | | 3GPP TS 27.005 [8]) | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
GSM 7 bit default alphabet indicates that the TP-UD is coded from the GSM 7
bit default alphabet given in clause 6.2.1. When this character set is used,
the characters of the message are packed in octets as shown in clause
6.1.2.1.1, and the message can consist of up to 160 characters. The GSM 7 bit
default alphabet shall be supported by all MSs and SCs offering the service.
If the GSM 7 bit default alphabet extension mechanism is used then the number
of displayable characters will reduce by one for every instance where the GSM
7 bit default alphabet extension table is used. 8-bit data indicates that the
TP-UD has user-defined coding, and the message can consist of up to 140
octets.
UCS2 character set indicates that the TP-UD has a UCS2 [10] coded message, and
the message can consist of up to 140 octets, i.e. up to 70 UCS2 characters.
The General notes specified in clause 6.1.1 override any contrary
specification in UCS2, so for example even in UCS2 a \ character will
cause the MS to return to the beginning of the current line and overwrite any
existing text with the characters which follow the \.
When a message is compressed, the TP-UD consists of the GSM 7 bit default
alphabet or UCS2 character set compressed message, and the compressed message
itself can consist of up to 140 octets in total.
When a mobile terminated message is class 0 and the MS has the capability of
displaying short messages, the MS shall display the message immediately and
send an acknowledgement to the SC when the message has successfully reached
the MS irrespective of whether there is memory available in the (U)SIM or ME.
The message shall not be automatically stored in the (U)SIM or ME.
The ME may make provision through MMI for the user to selectively prevent the
message from being displayed immediately.
If the ME is incapable of displaying short messages or if the immediate
display of the message has been disabled through MMI then the ME shall treat
the short message as though there was no message class, i.e. it will ignore
bits 0 and 1 in the TP-DCS and normal rules for memory capacity exceeded shall
apply.
When a mobile terminated message is Class 1, the MS shall send an
acknowledgement to the SC when the message has successfully reached the MS and
can be stored. The MS shall normally store the message in the ME by default,
if that is possible, but otherwise the message may be stored elsewhere, e.g.
in the (U)SIM. The user may be able to override the default meaning and select
their own routing.
When a mobile terminated message is Class 2 ((U)SIM-specific), an MS shall
ensure that the message has been transferred to the SMS data field in the
(U)SIM before sending an acknowledgement to the SC. The MS shall return a
\"protocol error, unspecified\" error message (see 3GPP TS 24.011 [6]) if the
short message cannot be stored in the (U)SIM and there is other short message
storage available at the MS. If all the short message storage at the MS is
already in use, the MS shall return \"memory capacity exceeded\". This
behaviour applies in all cases except for an MS supporting (U)SIM Application
Toolkit when the Protocol Identifier (TP-PID) of the mobile terminated message
is set to \"(U)SIM Data download\" (see 3GPP TS 23.040 [4]).
When a mobile terminated message is Class 3, the MS shall send an
acknowledgement to the SC when the message has successfully reached the MS and
can be stored, irrespectively of whether the MS supports an SMS interface to a
TE, and without waiting for the message to be transferred to the TE. Thus the
acknowledgement to the SC of a TE-specific message does not imply that the
message has reached the TE. Class 3 messages shall normally be transferred to
the TE when the TE requests \"TE‑specific\" messages (see 3GPP TS 27.005 [8]).
The user may be able to override the default meaning and select their own
routing.
The message class codes may also be used for mobile originated messages, to
provide an indication to the destination SME of how the message was handled at
the MS.
The MS will not interpret reserved or unsupported values but shall store them
as received. The SC may reject messages with a Data Coding Scheme containing a
reserved value or one which is not supported.
# 5 CBS Data Coding Scheme
The CBS Data Coding Scheme indicates the intended handling of the message at
the MS, the character set/coding, and the language (when applicable). Any
reserved codings shall be assumed to be the GSM 7 bit default alphabet (the
same as codepoint 00001111) by a receiving entity. The octet is used according
to a coding group which is indicated in bits 7..4. The octet is then coded as
follows:
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Coding Group | Use of bits 3..0 | | | | | Bits | | | | | | 7..4 | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 0000 | Language using the GSM 7 bit | | | default alphabet | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Bits 3..0 indicate the language: | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 0000 German | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 0001 English | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 0010 Italian | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 0011 French | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 0100 Spanish | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 0101 Dutch | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 0110 Swedish | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 0111 Danish | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 1000 Portuguese | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 1001 Finnish | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 1010 Norwegian | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 1011 Greek | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 1100 Turkish | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 1101 Hungarian | | | | | | 1110 Polish | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 1111 Language unspecified | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 0001 | 0000 GSM 7 bit default alphabet; | | | message preceded by language | | | indication. | | | | | | The first 3 characters of the | | | message are a two-character | | | representation of the language | | | encoded according to | | | ISO 639 [12], followed by a CR | | | character. The CR character is | | | then followed by 90 characters | | | of text (NOTE 1). | | | | | | 0001 UCS2; message preceded by | | | language indication | | | | | | The message starts with a two | | | GSM 7-bit default alphabet | | | character representation of the | | | language encoded according to | | | ISO 639 [12]. This is padded | | | to the octet boundary with two | | | bits set to 0 and then followed | | | by 40 characters of UCS2-encoded | | | message (NOTE 1). | | | | | | An MS not supporting UCS2 coding | | | will present the two character | | | language identifier followed by | | | improperly interpreted user | | | data. | | | | | | 0010..1111 Reserved | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 0010.. | 0000 Czech | | | | | | 0001 Hebrew (NOTE 2) | | | | | | 0010 Arabic (NOTE 2) | | | | | | 0011 Russian (NOTE 2) | | | | | | 0100 Icelandic | | | | | | 0101..1111 Reserved for other | | | languages using the GSM 7 bit | | | default alphabet, with | | | unspecified handling at the MS | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 0011 | 0000..1111 Reserved for other | | | languages using the GSM 7 bit | | | default alphabet, with | | | unspecified handling at the MS | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 01xx | General Data Coding indication | | | | | | Bits 5..0 indicate the | | | following: | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Bit 5, if set to 0, indicates | | | the text is uncompressed | | | | | | Bit 5, if set to 1, indicates | | | the text is compressed using the | | | compression algorithm defined in | | | 3GPP TS 23.042 [13] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Bit 4, if set to 0, indicates | | | that bits 1 to 0 are reserved | | | and have no message class | | | meaning | | | | | | Bit 4, if set to 1, indicates | | | that bits 1 to 0 have a message | | | class meaning: | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Bit 1 Bit 0 Message Class: | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 0 0 Class 0 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 0 1 Class 1 Default meaning: | | | ME-specific. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 1 0 Class 2 (U)SIM specific | | | message. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 1 1 Class 3 Default meaning: | | | TE-specific (see 3GPP TS | | | 27.005 [8]) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Bits 3 and 2 indicate the | | | character set being used, as | | | follows: | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Bit 3 Bit 2 Character set: | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 0 0 GSM 7 bit default alphabet | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 0 1 8 bit data | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 1 0 UCS2 (16 bit) [10] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 1 1 Reserved | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1000 | Reserved coding groups | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1001 | Message with User Data Header | | | (UDH) structure: | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Bit 1 Bit 0 Message Class: | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 0 0 Class 0 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 0 1 Class 1 Default meaning: | | | ME-specific. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 1 0 Class 2 (U)SIM specific | | | message. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 1 1 Class 3 Default meaning: | | | TE-specific (see 3GPP TS | | | 27.005 [8]) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Bits 3 and 2 indicate the | | | alphabet being used, as follows: | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Bit 3 Bit 2 Alphabet: | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 0 0 GSM 7 bit default alphabet | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 0 1 8 bit data | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 1 0 USC2 (16 bit) [10] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 1 1 Reserved | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1010..1100 | Reserved coding groups | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1101 | I1 protocol message defined in | | | 3GPP TS 24.294 [19] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1110 | Defined by the WAP Forum [15] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1111 | Data coding / message handling | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Bit 3 is reserved, set to 0. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Bit 2 Message coding: | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 0 GSM 7 bit default alphabet | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 1 8 bit data | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Bit 1 Bit 0 Message Class: | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 0 0 No message class. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 0 1 Class 1 user defined. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 1 0 Class 2 user defined. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 1 1 Class 3 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | default meaning: TE specific | | | | | | (see 3GPP TS 27.005 [8]) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: The language indication | | | shall appear at the start of | | | each Message Information Page | | | (see 3GPP TS 23.041 [5]) and | | | the language indication on each | | | Message Information Page shall | | | be for the same language. | | | | | | NOTE 2: Message text in Hebrew, | | | Arabic and Russian cannot be | | | encoded in the GSM 7-bit default | | | alphabet. For these languages | | | UCS2 encoding shall be used. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
These codings may also be used for USSD and MMI/display purposes.
The message length specified in this subclause is not applicable for UTRAN,
E-UTRAN, and NG-RAN, but only applicable for GSM.
See 3GPP TS 24.090 [11] for specific coding values applicable to USSD for MS
originated USSD messages and MS terminated USSD messages. USSD messages using
the default alphabet are coded with the GSM 7-bit default alphabet given in
clause 6.2.1. The message can then consist of up to 182 user characters.
Cell Broadcast messages using the default alphabet are coded with the GSM
7-bit default alphabet given in clause 6.2.1. The Message Information Page
then consists of 93 user characters.
If the GSM 7 bit default alphabet extension mechanism is used then the number
of displayable characters will reduce by one for every instance where the GSM
7 bit default alphabet extension table is usedCell Broadcast Messages
Information Page using 8-bit data have user-defined coding, and will each be
82 octets in length.
UCS2 character set indicates that the message is coded in UCS2 [10]. The
General notes specified in clause 6.1.1 override any contrary specification in
UCS2, so for example even in UCS2 a \ character will cause the MS to
return to the beginning of the current line and overwrite any existing text
with the characters which follow the \. Cell Broadcast Messages
Information Page encoded in UCS2 consist of 41 characters each.
When a CBS message received by the MS is message class 0 and the MS has the
capability of displaying CBS messages, the MS shall display the message
immediately. The message shall not be automatically stored in the (U)SIM or
ME.
The ME may make provision through MMI for the user to selectively prevent the
message from being displayed immediately.
If the ME is incapable of displaying CBS messages or if the immediate display
of the message has been disabled through MMI then the ME shall treat the CBS
message as though there was no message class, i.e. it will ignore bits 0 and 1
in the TP-DCS but may store the message either on the ME or on the (U)SIM.
Class 1 and Class 2 messages may be routed by the ME to user-defined
destinations, but the user may override any default meaning and select their
own routing.
Class 3 messages will normally be selected for transfer to a TE, in cases
where a ME supports an SMS/CBS interface to a TE, and the TE requests \"TE-
specific\" cell broadcast messages (see 3GPP TS 27.005 [8]). The user may be
able to override the default meaning and select their own routing.
Messages with a User Data Header Structure are encoded as described in 3GPP TS
23.040 [4] for SMS, in subclauses 3.10 and 9.2.3.24.
The use of Cell Broadcast DCS values for messages with a User Data Header
structure implies that the 82-bytes CB payload has a User Data Header
structure.
The CBS message information field will contain the IEs as described in 3GPP TS
23.040. The concatenation IEs will not be used, as CB concatenation will rely
in that case on the existing CB mechanism. Note that IEs that cannot be split
and that IEs that are too large to fit in one CB segment cannot be transmitted
using this mechanism. Also, some IEs as defined for SMS are not applicable for
CB:
* * *
VALUE (hex) MEANING 00 Concatenated short messages, 8-bit reference number 01
Special SMS Message Indication 06 SMSC Control Parameters 08 Concatenated
short message, 16-bit reference number 20 RFC 822 E-Mail Header 23 Enhanced
Voice Mail Information 70-7F (U)SIM Toolkit Security Headers 80-89 SME to SME
specific use
* * *
# 6 Individual parameters
## 6.1 General principles
### 6.1.1 General notes
Except where otherwise indicated, the following shall apply to all character
sets:
1: The characters marked \"1)\" are not used but are displayed as a space.
2: The characters of this set, when displayed, should approximate to the
appearance of the relevant characters specified in ISO 1073 [16]and the
relevant national standards.
3: Control characters:
* * *
Code Meaning LF Line feed: Any characters following LF which are to be
displayed shall be presented as the next line of the message, commencing with
the first character position. CR Carriage return: Any characters following CR
which are to be displayed shall be presented as the current line of the
message, commencing with the first character position. SP Space character.
* * *
4: The display of characters within a message is achieved by taking each
character in turn and placing it in the next available space from left to
right and top to bottom.
### 6.1.2 Character packing
#### 6.1.2.1 SMS Packing
##### 6.1.2.1.1 Packing of 7-bit characters
If a character number α is noted in the following way:
b7 b6 b5 b4 b3 b2 b1
αa αb αc αd αe αf αg
The packing of the 7-bitscharacters in octets is done by completing the octets
with zeros on the left.
For examples, packing: α
\- one character in one octet:
\- bits number:
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
0 1a 1b 1c 1d 1e 1f 1g
\- two characters in two octets:
\- bits number:
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
2g 1a 1b 1c 1d 1e 1f 1g
0 0 2a 2b 2c 2d 2e 2f
\- three characters in three octets:
\- bits number:
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
2g 1a 1b 1c 1d 1e 1f 1g
3f 3g 2a 2b 2c 2d 2e 2f
0 0 0 3a 3b 3c 3d 3e
\- seven characters in seven octets:
\- bits number:
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
2g 1a 1b 1c 1d 1e 1f 1g
3f 3g 2a 2b 2c 2d 2e 2f
4e 4f 4g 3a 3b 3c 3d 3e
5d 5e 5f 5g 4a 4b 4c 4d
6c 6d 6e 6f 6g 5a 5b 5c
7b 7c 7d 7e 7f 7g 6a 6b
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 7a
\- eight characters in seven octets:
\- bits number:
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
2g 1a 1b 1c 1d 1e 1f 1g
3f 3g 2a 2b 2c 2d 2e 2f
4e 4f 4g 3a 3b 3c 3d 3e
5d 5e 5f 5g 4a 4b 4c 4d
6c 6d 6e 6f 6g 5a 5b 5c
7b 7c 7d 7e 7f 7g 6a 6b
8a 8b 8c 8d 8e 8f 8g 7a
The bit number zero is always transmitted first.
Therefore, in 140 octets, it is possible to pack (140x8)/7=160 characters.
#### 6.1.2.2 CBS Packing
##### 6.1.2.2.1 Packing of 7-bit characters
If a character number α is noted in the following way:
b7 b6 b5 b4 b3 b2 b1
αa αb αc αd αe αf αg
the packing of the 7-bits characters in octets is done as follows:
bit number
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
octet number
1 2g 1a 1b 1c 1d 1e 1f 1g
2 3f 3g 2a 2b 2c 2d 2e 2f
3 4e 4f 4g 3a 3b 3c 3d 3e
4 5d 5e 5f 5g 4a 4b 4c 4d
5 6c 6d 6e 6f 6g 5a 5b 5c
6 7b 7c 7d 7e 7f 7g 6a 6b
7 8a 8b 8c 8d 8e 8f 8g 7a
8 10g 9a 9b 9c 9d 9e 9f 9g
.
.
81 93d 93e 93f 93g 92a 92b 92c 92d
82 0 0 0 0 0 93a 93b 93c
The bit number zero is always transmitted first.
Therefore, in 82 octets, it is possible to pack (82x8)/7 = 93.7, that is 93
characters. The 5 remaining bits are set to zero as stated above.
#### 6.1.2.3 USSD packing
#### 6.1.2.3.1 Packing of 7 bit characters
If a character number α is noted in the following way:
b7 b6 b5 b4 b3 b2 b1
αa αb αc αd αe αf αg
The packing of the 7-bit characters in octets is done by completing the octets
with zeros on the left.
For example, packing: α
\- one character in one octet:
\- bits number:
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
0 1a 1b 1c 1d 1e 1f 1g
\- two characters in two octets:
\- bits number:
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
2g 1a 1b 1c 1d 1e 1f 1g
0 0 2a 2b 2c 2d 2e 2f
\- three characters in three octets:
\- bits number:
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
2g 1a 1b 1c 1d 1e 1f 1g
3f 3g 2a 2b 2c 2d 2e 2f
0 0 0 3a 3b 3c 3d 3e
\- six characters in six octets:
\- bits number:
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
2g 1a 1b 1c 1d 1e 1f 1g
3f 3g 2a 2b 2c 2d 2e 2f
4e 4f 4g 3a 3b 3c 3d 3e
5d 5e 5f 5g 4a 4b 4c 4d
6c 6d 6e 6f 6g 5a 5b 5c
0 0 0 0 0 0 6a 6b
\- seven characters in seven octets:
\- bits number:
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
2g 1a 1b 1c 1d 1e 1f 1g
3f 3g 2a 2b 2c 2d 2e 2f
4e 4f 4g 3a 3b 3c 3d 3e
5d 5e 5f 5g 4a 4b 4c 4d
6c 6d 6e 6f 6g 5a 5b 5c
7b 7c 7d 7e 7f 7g 6a 6b
0 0 0 1 1 0 1 7a
The bit number zero is always transmitted first.
\- eight characters in seven octets:
\- bits number:
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
2g 1a 1b 1c 1d 1e 1f 1g
3f 3g 2a 2b 2c 2d 2e 2f
4e 4f 4g 3a 3b 3c 3d 3e
5d 5e 5f 5g 4a 4b 4c 4d
6c 6d 6e 6f 6g 5a 5b 5c
7b 7c 7d 7e 7f 7g 6a 6b
8a 8b 8c 8d 8e 8f 8g 7a
\- nine characters in eight octets:
\- bits number:
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
2g 1a 1b 1c 1d 1e 1f 1g
3f 3g 2a 2b 2c 2d 2e 2f
4e 4f 4g 3a 3b 3c 3d 3e
5d 5e 5f 5g 4a 4b 4c 4d
6c 6d 6e 6f 6g 5a 5b 5c
7b 7c 7d 7e 7f 7g 6a 6b
8a 8b 8c 8d 8e 8f 8g 7a
0 9a 9b 9c 9d 9e 9f 9g
\- fifteen characters in fourteen octets:
\- bits number:
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
2g 1a 1b 1c 1d 1e 1f 1g
3f 3g 2a 2b 2c 2d 2e 2f
4e 4f 4g 3a 3b 3c 3d 3e
5d 5e 5f 5g 4a 4b 4c 4d
6c 6d 6e 6f 6g 5a 5b 5c
7b 7c 7d 7e 7f 7g 6a 6b
8a 8b 8c 8d 8e 8f 8g 7a
10g 9a 9b 9c 9d 9e 9f 9g
11f 11g 10a 10b 10c 10d 10e 10f
12e 12f 12g 11a 11b 11c 11d 11e
13d 13e 13f 13g 12a 12b 12c 12d
14c 14d 14e 14f 14g 13a 13b 13c
15b 15c 15d 15e 15f 15g 14a 14b
0 0 0 1 1 0 1 15a
\- sixteen characters in fourteen octets:
\- bits number:
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
2g 1a 1b 1c 1d 1e 1f 1g
3f 3g 2a 2b 2c 2d 2e 2f
4e 4f 4g 3a 3b 3c 3d 3e
5d 5e 5f 5g 4a 4b 4c 4d
6c 6d 6e 6f 6g 5a 5b 5c
7b 7c 7d 7e 7f 7g 6a 6b
8a 8b 8c 8d 8e 8f 8g 7a
10g 9a 9b 9c 9d 9e 9f 9g
11f 11g 10a 10b 10c 10d 10e 10f
12e 12f 12g 11a 11b 11c 11d 11e
13d 13e 13f 13g 12a 12b 12c 12d
14c 14d 14e 14f 14g 13a 13b 13c
15b 15c 15d 15e 15f 15g 14a 14b
16a 16b 16c 16d 16e 16f 16g 15a
The bit number zero is always transmitted first.
Therefore, in 160 octets, is it possible to pack (160*8)/7 = 182.8, that is
182 characters. The remaining 6 bits are set to zero as stated above.
Packing of 7 bit characters in USSD strings is done in the same way as for SMS
(clause 6.1.2.1). The character stream is bit padded to octet boundary with
binary zeroes as shown above.
If the total number of characters to be sent equals (8n‑1) where n=1,2,3 etc.
then there are 7 spare bits at the end of the message. To avoid the situation
where the receiving entity confuses 7 binary zero pad bits as the @ character,
the carriage return or \ character (defined in clause 6.1.1) shall be used
for padding in this situation, just as for Cell Broadcast.
If \ is intended to be the last character and the message (including the
wanted \) ends on an octet boundary, then another \ must be added
together with a padding bit 0. The receiving entity will perform the carriage
return function twice, but this will not result in misoperation as the
definition of \ in clause 6.1.1 is identical to the definition of
\\.
The receiving entity shall remove the final \ character where the message
ends on an octet boundary with \ as the last character.
## 6.2 Character sets and coding
This section provides list of character sets and codings to be supported by
SMS, CBS, USSD and IEs included in NAS messages as specified in 3GPP TS 24.008
[20] and 3GPP TS 24.301 [21]. Implementation of the GSM 7 bit default alphabet
is mandatory. Support of other character sets is optional.
It should be noted that support of Latin and non-Latin languages by GSM 7 bit
default alphabet is limited. It is therefore essential to introduce UCS 2
character set in mobile stations, SCs and systems handling SMSs, CBSs, USSDs,
and IEs included in NAS messages.
### 6.2.1 GSM 7 bit Default Alphabet
Bits per character: 7
CBS/USSD/IE of NAS message pad character: CR
Character table:
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b7   0    0     0    0    1   1   1   1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b6   0    0     1    1    0   0   1   1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b5   0    1     0    1    0   1   0   1
b4 b3 b2 b1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 0 0 0 0 @ SP 0 ¡ P ¿ p 0 0 0 1 1 £ _ ! 1 A Q a q
0 0 1 0 2 \$ \" 2 B R b r 0 0 1 1 3 ¥ # 3 C S c s 0 1 0 0 4 è ¤ 4 D T d t 0 1
0 1 5 é \% 5 E U e u 0 1 1 0 6 ù & 6 F V f v 0 1 1 1 7 ì \' 7 G W g w 1 0 0 0
8 ò ( 8 H X h x 1 0 0 1 9 Ç ) 9 I Y i y 1 0 1 0 10 LF * : J Z j z 1 0 1 1 11 Ø
1) + ; K Ä k ä 1 1 0 0 12 ø Æ , \ N Ü n ü 1 1 1 1 15 å É / ? O § o à NOTE 1): This code is an escape
to an extension of this table (either to the GSM 7 bit default alphabet
extension table, see subclause 6.2.1.1, or a National Language Single Shift
Table, see subclause 6.2.1.2.2). A receiving entity which does not understand
the meaning of this escape mechanism shall display it as a space character.
* * *
#### 6.2.1.1 GSM 7 bit default alphabet extension table
The table below is reserved for symbols of international significance (e.g
currency symbols). It also contains a mechanism to permit escape (Note 1) to
additional tables for symbols of international significance in the event that
the table below becomes fully populated.
|  |  |  | b7 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  | b6 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1  
|  |  |  | b5 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1  
b4 | b3 | b2 | b1 |  | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 |  |  |  |  | | |  |  |   
0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
0 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 4 |  | ^ |  |  |  |  |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 5 |  |  |  |  |  |  | € |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 6 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 7 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 8 |  |  | { |  |  |  |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 9 |  |  | } |  |  |  |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 10 | 3) |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 11 |  | 1) |  |  |  |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 12 |  |  |  | [ |  |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 13 |  |  |  | ~ |  |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 14 |  |  |  | ] |  |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 15 |  |  | \ |  |  |  |  |   
In the event that an MS receives a code where a symbol is not represented in the above table then the MS shall display either the character shown in the main GSM 7 bit default alphabet table in subclause 6.2.1., or the character from the National Language Locking Shift Table in the case where the locking shift mechanism as defined in subclause 6.2.1.2.3 is used. NOTE 1): This code is reserved for the extension to another extension table. On receipt of this code, a receiving entity shall display a space until another extension table is defined. It is not intended that this extension mechanism should be used as an alternative to UCS2 to enhance the 7bit default alphabet character repertoire for national specific character sets. NOTE 2): Void NOTE 3): This code is defined as a Page Break character and may be used for example in compressed CBS messages. Any mobile station which does not understand the GSM 7 bit default alphabet table extension mechanism will treat this character as Line Feed. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
#### 6.2.1.2 National Language Identifier
##### 6.2.1.2.1 Introduction
The national language tables are used for adding the special characters of
certain languages that cannot be expressed using the GSM default 7 bit
alphabet.
The principle is to use the National Language Identifier to indicate to a
receiving entity that the message has been encoded using a national language
table. Both single shift and locking shift mechanisms are defined.
The single shift mechanism, as defined in subclause 6.2.1.2.2, applies to a
single character and it replaces the GSM 7 bit default alphabet extension
table defined in subclause 6.2.1.1 with a National Language Single Shift Table
(see subclause A.2).
The locking shift mechanism, as defined in subclause 6.2.1.2.3, applies
throughout the message, or the current segment in case of a concatenated
message, and it replaces the GSM 7 bit default alphabet defined in subclause
6.2.1 with a National Language Locking Shift Table (see subclause A.3) that
defines the whole character set needed for the language.
In case that several languages are used, which require different national
language tables, it is recommended to encode the message in UCS-2, however it
is possible to use both single shift and locking shift with the corresponding
tables in a single message.
Implementations based on older reference versions (so-called \"legacy
implementations\") will use the fallback mechanisms that are defined in the
earlier versions of the specification for handling of unknown characters.
##### 6.2.1.2.2 Single shift mechanism
In the case where single shift is not combined with locking shift, single
shift means that the receiving entity shall decode all characters in the
message (or the current segment in case of a concatenated message) using the
GSM 7 bit default alphabet unless the escape mechanism is used, i.e
\\, as defined in subclause 6.2.1.
The case where single shift and locking shift (which may be for the same or
different languages) are combined is described in subclause 6.2.1.2.3.
If the escape mechanism is used then instead of the GSM 7 bit default alphabet
extension table in subclause 6.2.1.1 the receiving entity shall decode the
subsequent character using the National Language Single Shift Table for the
indicated language in table 6.2.1.2.4.1. Each time a sending entity requires
to send a character from the National Language Single Shift Table the sending
entity shall encode this as \\, where the \ is
encoded using the indicated National Language Single Shift Table.
##### 6.2.1.2.3 Locking shift mechanism
Locking Shift means that the receiving entity shall decode all characters in
the message (or the current segment in case of a concatenated message) using
the National Language Locking Shift Table unless the escape mechanism is used.
i.e. \\, as defined in subclause 6.2.1.
If the escape mechanism is used and no National Language Single Shift Table is
indicated (see subclause 6.2.1.2.4), the receiving entity shall decode the
message (or the current segment in case of a concatenated message) using the
GSM 7 bit default alphabet extension table as defined in subclause 6.2.1.1.
If the escape mechanism is used and a National Language Single Shift Table is
indicated (see subclause 6.2.1.2.4), the receiving entity shall decode the
message (or the current segment in case of a concatenated message) using the
National Language Single Shift Table as defined in subclause 6.2.1.2.2.
##### 6.2.1.2.4 National Language Identifier
A National Language Single Shift IE and a National Language Locking Shift IE
can be included in the TP User Data Header, as defined in 3GPP TS 23.040 [4].
The receiving entity shall decode using single shift or locking shift as
applicable for the language indicated in the National Language Identifier
within these IEs.
The National Language Identifier octet is encoded as shown in table
6.2.1.2.4.1.
Table 6.2.1.2.4.1
Language code b7......b0 Language National Language Single Shift Table
National Language Locking Shift Table
* * *
00000000 Reserved n/a n/a 00000001 Turkish Subclause A.2.1 Subclause A.3.1
00000010 Spanish Subclause A.2.2 Not defined -- fallback to GSM 7 bit default
alphabet (see subclause 6.2.1) 00000011 Portuguese Subclause A.2.3 Subclause
A.3.3 00000100 Bengali Subclause A.2.4 Subclause A.3.4 00000101 Gujarati
Subclause A.2.5 Subclause A.3.5 00000110 Hindi Subclause A.2.6 Subclause A.3.6
00000111 Kannada Subclause A.2.7 Subclause A.3.7 00001000 Malayalam Subclause
A.2.8 Subclause A.3.8 00001001 Oriya Subclause A.2.9 Subclause A.3.9 00001010
Punjabi Subclause A.2.10 Subclause A.3.10 00001011 Tamil Subclause A.2.11
Subclause A.3.11 00001100 Telugu Subclause A.2.12 Subclause A.3.12 00001101
Urdu Subclause A.2.13 Subclause A.3.13 00001110 to 11111111 Reserved n/a n/a
##### 6.2.1.2.5 Processing of national language characters
When supporting a specific national language, the sending entity shall support
the encoding of messages using the corresponding National Language Identifier
defined in subclause 6.2.1.2.4.
The receiving entity should be able to decode messages usingthe National
Language Identifiers defined in subclause 6.2.1.2.4 for the languages that are
supported by that entity.
If a message is received, containing a National Language Identifier indicating
a reserved value or a value that is not supported by the receiving entity, the
receiving entity shall ignore the IE (see 3GPP TS 23.040 [4]) in which the
National Language Identifier was indicated.
The receiving entity shall be capable of processing both single shift and
locking shift within the same message.
It is an implementation option for the sending entity whether to use the
single shift mechanism, the locking shift mechanism or both.
NOTE 1: A message using the locking shift mechanism cannot make use of
characters from the GSM 7 bit Default Alphabet table unless such characters
are replicated in the National Language Locking Shift Table or (in the case of
locking shift and single shift), the National Language Single Shift table.
NOTE 2: Encoding of a message using the national locking shift mechanism is
not intended to be implemented until a formal request is issued by the
relevant national regulatory body. This is because a receiving entity not
supporting the relevant locking-shift decoding will present different
characters from the ones intended by the sending entity.
NOTE 3: An SMS message using a locking shift table for a language may not be
properly displayed when the terminal does not support the locking shift table
for that language. When the network is aware of the list of the locking shift
tables supported by the UE, the network can deliver the SMS messages using an
appropriate encoding.
### 6.2.2 8 bit data
8 bit data is user defined
Padding: CR in the case of an 8 bit character set
Otherwise - user defined
Character table: User Specific
### 6.2.3 UCS2
Bits per character: 16
CBS/USSD pad character: CR
Character table: ISO/IEC 10646 [10]
###### ## Annex A (normative): National Language Tables
# A.1 Introduction
This annex contains character tables for specific languages whose characters
are not wholly or partially present within the GSM 7 bit default alphabet.
# A.2 National Language Single Shift Tables
## A.2.1 Turkish National Language Single Shift Table
|  |  |  | b7 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  | b6 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1  
|  |  |  | b5 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1  
b4 | b3 | b2 | B1 |  | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 |  |  |  |  | | |  |  |   
0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
0 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 3 |  |  |  |  |  | Ş | ç | ş  
0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 4 |  | ^ |  |  |  |  |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 5 |  |  |  |  |  |  | € |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 6 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 7 |  |  |  |  | Ğ |  | ğ |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 8 |  |  | { |  |  |  |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 9 |  |  | } |  | İ |  | ı |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 10 | 3) |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 11 |  | 1) |  |  |  |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 12 |  |  |  | [ |  |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 13 | 4) |  |  | ~ |  |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 14 |  |  |  | ] |  |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 15 |  |  | \ |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE 1): This code is reserved for the extension to another extension table. On receipt of this code, a receiving entity shall display a space until another extension table is defined. NOTE 2): Void NOTE 3): This code is defined as a Page Break character and may be used for example in compressed CBS messages. Any mobile station which does not understand the GSM 7 bit default alphabet table extension mechanism will treat this character as Line Feed. NOTE 4): This code represents a control character and therefore must not be used for language specific characters. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## A.2.2 Spanish National Language Single Shift Table
NOTE: This table also includes the character \"ç\" used in Catalan.
|  |  |  | b7 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  | b6 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1  
|  |  |  | b5 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1  
b4 | b3 | b2 | b1 |  | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 |  |  |  |  | | |  |  |   
0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 |  |  |  |  | Á |  | á |   
0 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 4 |  | ^ |  |  |  |  |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 5 |  |  |  |  |  | Ú | € | ú  
0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 6 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 7 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 8 |  |  | { |  |  |  |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 9 | ç |  | } |  | Í |  | í |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 10 | 3) |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 11 |  | 1) |  |  |  |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 12 |  |  |  | [ |  |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 13 | 4) |  |  | ~ |  |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 14 |  |  |  | ] |  |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 15 |  |  | \ |  | Ó |  | ó |   
NOTE 1): This code is reserved for the extension to another extension table. On receipt of this code, a receiving entity shall display a space until another extension table is defined. NOTE 2): Void NOTE 3): This code is defined as a Page Break character and may be used for example in compressed CBS messages. Any mobile station which does not understand the GSM 7 bit default alphabet table extension mechanism will treat this character as Line Feed. NOTE 4): This code represents a control character and therefore must not be used for language specific characters. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## A.2.3 Portuguese National Language Single Shift Table
|  |  |  | b7 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  | b6 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1  
|  |  |  | b5 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1  
b4 | b3 | b2 | b1 |  | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 |  |  |  |  | | |  |  |   
0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 |  |  |  |  | À |  | Â |   
0 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 4 |  | ^ |  |  |  |  |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 5 | ê |  |  |  |  | Ú | € | ú  
0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 6 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 7 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 8 |  |  | { |  |  |  |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 9 | ç |  | } |  | Í |  | í |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 10 | 3) |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 11 | Ô | 1) |  |  |  | Ã |  | ã  
1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 12 | ô |  |  | [ |  | Õ |  | õ  
1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 13 | 4) |  |  | ~ |  |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 14 | Á |  |  | ] |  |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 15 | á | Ê | \ |  | Ó |  | ó | â  
NOTE 1): This code is reserved for the extension to another extension table. On receipt of this code, a receiving entity shall display a space until another extension table is defined. NOTE 2): Void. NOTE 3): This code is defined as a Page Break character and may be used for example in compressed CBS messages. Any mobile station which does not understand the GSM 7 bit default alphabet table extension mechanism will treat this character as Line Feed. NOTE 4): This code represents a control character and therefore must not be used for language specific characters. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## A.2.4 Bengali National Language Single Shift Table
NOTE: In the table below, the Bengali characters are represented using
Unicode.
|  |  |  | b7 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  | b6 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1  
|  |  |  | b5 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1  
b4 | b3 | b2 | b1 |  | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | @ |  | 09EE | 09F8 | B | R |  |   
0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 3 | ¥ | ¡ | 09EF | 09F9 | C | S |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 4 | ¿ | ^ | 09DF | 09FA | D | T |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 5 | " | ¡ | 09E0 |  | E | U | € |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 6 | ¤ | _ | 09E1 |  | F | V |  |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 7 | % | # | 09E2 |  | G | W |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 8 | & | * | { |  | H | X |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 9 | ' | 09E6 | } |  | I | Y |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 10 | 3) | 09E7 | 09E3 |  | J | Z |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 11 | * | 1) | 09F2 |  | K |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 12 | + | 09E8 | 09F3 | [ | L |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 13 | 4) | 09E9 | 09F4 | ~ | M |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 14 | - | 09EA | 09F5 | ] | N |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 15 | / | 09EB | \ |  | O |  |  |   
NOTE 1): This code is reserved for the extension to another extension table. On receipt of this code, a receiving entity shall display a space until another extension table is defined. NOTE 2): Void NOTE 3): This code is defined as a Page Break character and may be used for example in compressed CBS messages. Any mobile station which does not understand the GSM 7 bit default alphabet table extension mechanism will treat this character as Line Feed. NOTE 4): This code represents a control character and therefore must not be used for language specific characters. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## A.2.5 Gujarati National Language Single Shift Table
NOTE: In the table below, the Gujarati characters are represented using
Unicode.
|  |  |  | b7 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  | b6 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1  
|  |  |  | b5 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1  
b4 | b3 | b2 | b1 |  | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | @ |  | 0AEC |  | B | R |  |   
0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 3 | ¥ | ¡ | 0AED |  | C | S |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 4 | ¿ | ^ | 0AEE |  | D | T |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 5 | " | ¡ | 0AEF |  | E | U | € |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 6 | ¤ | _ |  |  | F | V |  |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 7 | % | # |  |  | G | W |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 8 | & | * | { |  | H | X |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 9 | ' | 0964 | } |  | I | Y |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 10 | 3) | 0965 |  |  | J | Z |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 11 | * | 1) |  |  | K |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 12 | + | 0AE6 |  | [ | L |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 13 | 4) | 0AE7 |  | ~ | M |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 14 | - | 0AE8 |  | ] | N |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 15 | / | 0AE9 | \ |  | O |  |  |   
NOTE 1): This code is reserved for the extension to another extension table. On receipt of this code, a receiving entity shall display a space until another extension table is defined. NOTE 2): Void NOTE 3): This code is defined as a Page Break character and may be used for example in compressed CBS messages. Any mobile station which does not understand the GSM 7 bit default alphabet table extension mechanism will treat this character as Line Feed. NOTE 4): This code represents a control character and therefore must not be used for language specific characters. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## A.2.6 Hindi National Language Single Shift Table
NOTE: In the table below, the Hindi characters are represented using Unicode.
|  |  |  | b7 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  | b6 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1  
|  |  |  | b5 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1  
b4 | b3 | b2 | b1 |  | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | @ |  | 096C | 095D | B | R |  |   
0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 3 | ¥ | ¡ | 096D | 095E | C | S |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 4 | ¿ | ^ | 096E | 095F | D | T |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 5 | " | ¡ | 096F | 0960 | E | U | € |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 6 | ¤ | _ | 0951 | 0961 | F | V |  |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 7 | % | # | 0952 | 0962 | G | W |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 8 | & | * | { | 0963 | H | X |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 9 | ' | 0964 | } | 0970 | I | Y |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 10 | 3) | 0965 | 0953 | 0971 | J | Z |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 11 | * | 1) | 0954 |  | K |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 12 | + | 0966 | 0958 | [ | L |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 13 | 4) | 0967 | 0959 | ~ | M |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 14 | - | 0968 | 095A | ] | N |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 15 | / | 0969 | \ |  | O |  |  |   
NOTE 1): This code is reserved for the extension to another extension table. On receipt of this code, a receiving entity shall display a space until another extension table is defined. NOTE 2): Void NOTE 3): This code is defined as a Page Break character and may be used for example in compressed CBS messages. Any mobile station which does not understand the GSM 7 bit default alphabet table extension mechanism will treat this character as Line Feed. NOTE 4): This code represents a control character and therefore must not be used for language specific characters. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## A.2.7 Kannada National Language Single Shift Table
NOTE: In the table below, the Kannada characters are represented using
Unicode.
|  |  |  | b7 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  | b6 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1  
|  |  |  | b5 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1  
b4 | b3 | b2 | b1 |  | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | @ |  | 0CEC |  | B | R |  |   
0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 3 | ¥ | ¡ | 0CED |  | C | S |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 4 | ¿ | ^ | 0CEE |  | D | T |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 5 | " | ¡ | 0CEF |  | E | U | € |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 6 | ¤ | _ | 0CDE |  | F | V |  |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 7 | % | # | 0CF1 |  | G | W |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 8 | & | * | { |  | H | X |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 9 | ' | 0964 | } |  | I | Y |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 10 | 3) | 0965 | 0CF2 |  | J | Z |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 11 | * | 1) |  |  | K |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 12 | + | 0CE6 |  | [ | L |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 13 | 4) | 0CE7 |  | ~ | M |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 14 | - | 0CE8 |  | ] | N |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 15 | / | 0CE9 | \ |  | O |  |  |   
NOTE 1): This code is reserved for the extension to another extension table. On receipt of this code, a receiving entity shall display a space until another extension table is defined. NOTE 2): Void NOTE 3): This code is defined as a Page Break character and may be used for example in compressed CBS messages. Any mobile station which does not understand the GSM 7 bit default alphabet table extension mechanism will treat this character as Line Feed. NOTE 4): This code represents a control character and therefore must not be used for language specific characters. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## A.2.8 Malayalam National Language Single Shift Table
NOTE: In the table below, the Malayalam characters are represented using
Unicode.
|  |  |  | b7 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  | b6 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1  
|  |  |  | b5 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1  
b4 | b3 | b2 | b1 |  | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | @ |  | 0D6C | 0D7D | B | R |  |   
0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 3 | ¥ | ¡ | 0D6D | 0D7E | C | S |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 4 | ¿ | ^ | 0D6E | 0D7F | D | T |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 5 | " | ¡ | 0D6F |  | E | U | € |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 6 | ¤ | _ | 0D70 |  | F | V |  |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 7 | % | # | 0D71 |  | G | W |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 8 | & | * | { |  | H | X |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 9 | ' | 0964 | } |  | I | Y |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 10 | 3) | 0965 | 0D72 |  | J | Z |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 11 | * | 1) | 0D73 |  | K |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 12 | + | 0D66 | 0D74 | [ | L |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 13 | 4) | 0D67 | 0D75 | ~ | M |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 14 | - | 0D68 | 0D7A | ] | N |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 15 | / | 0D69 | \ |  | O |  |  |   
NOTE 1): This code is reserved for the extension to another extension table. On receipt of this code, a receiving entity shall display a space until another extension table is defined. NOTE 2): Void NOTE 3): This code is defined as a Page Break character and may be used for example in compressed CBS messages. Any mobile station which does not understand the GSM 7 bit default alphabet table extension mechanism will treat this character as Line Feed. NOTE 4): This code represents a control character and therefore must not be used for language specific characters. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## A.2.9 Oriya National Language Single Shift Table
NOTE: In the table below, the Oriya characters are represented using Unicode.
|  |  |  | b7 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  | b6 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1  
|  |  |  | b5 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1  
b4 | b3 | b2 | b1 |  | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | @ |  | 0B6C |  | B | R |  |   
0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 3 | ¥ | ¡ | 0B6D |  | C | S |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 4 | ¿ | ^ | 0B6E |  | D | T |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 5 | " | ¡ | 0B6F |  | E | U | € |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 6 | ¤ | _ | 0B5C |  | F | V |  |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 7 | % | # | 0B5D |  | G | W |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 8 | & | * | { |  | H | X |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 9 | ' | 0964 | } |  | I | Y |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 10 | 3) | 0965 | 0B5F |  | J | Z |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 11 | * | 1) | 0B70 |  | K |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 12 | + | 0B66 | 0B71 | [ | L |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 13 | 4) | 0B67 |  | ~ | M |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 14 | - | 0B68 |  | ] | N |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 15 | / | 0B69 | \ |  | O |  |  |   
NOTE 1): This code is reserved for the extension to another extension table. On receipt of this code, a receiving entity shall display a space until another extension table is defined. NOTE 2): Void NOTE 3): This code is defined as a Page Break character and may be used for example in compressed CBS messages. Any mobile station which does not understand the GSM 7 bit default alphabet table extension mechanism will treat this character as Line Feed. NOTE 4): This code represents a control character and therefore must not be used for language specific characters. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## A.2.10 Punjabi National Language Single Shift Table
NOTE: In the table below, the Punjabi characters are represented using
Unicode.
|  |  |  | b7 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  | b6 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1  
|  |  |  | b5 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1  
b4 | b3 | b2 | b1 |  | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | @ |  | 0A6C |  | B | R |  |   
0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 3 | ¥ | ¡ | OA6D |  | C | S |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 4 | ¿ | ^ | 0A6E |  | D | T |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 5 | " | ¡ | 0A6F |  | E | U | € |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 6 | ¤ | _ | 0A59 |  | F | V |  |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 7 | % | # | 0A5A |  | G | W |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 8 | & | * | { |  | H | X |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 9 | ' | 0964 | } |  | I | Y |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 10 | 3) | 0965 | 0A5B |  | J | Z |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 11 | * | 1) | 0A5C |  | K |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 12 | + | 0A66 | 0A5E | [ | L |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 13 | 4) | 0A67 | 0A75 | ~ | M |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 14 | - | 0A68 |  | ] | N |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 15 | / | 0A69 | \ |  | O |  |  |   
NOTE 1): This code is reserved for the extension to another extension table. On receipt of this code, a receiving entity shall display a space until another extension table is defined. NOTE 2): Void NOTE 3): This code is defined as a Page Break character and may be used for example in compressed CBS messages. Any mobile station which does not understand the GSM 7 bit default alphabet table extension mechanism will treat this character as Line Feed. NOTE 4): This code represents a control character and therefore must not be used for language specific characters. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## A.2.11 Tamil National Language Single Shift Table
NOTE: In the table below, the Tamil characters are represented using Unicode.
|  |  |  | b7 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  | b6 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1  
|  |  |  | b5 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1  
b4 | b3 | b2 | b1 |  | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | @ |  | 0BEC |  | B | R |  |   
0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 3 | ¥ | ¡ | 0BED |  | C | S |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 4 | ¿ | ^ | 0BEF |  | D | T |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 5 | " | ¡ | 0BEF |  | E | U | € |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 6 | ¤ | _ | 0BF3 |  | F | V |  |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 7 | % | # | 0BF4 |  | G | W |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 8 | & | * | { |  | H | X |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 9 | ' | 0964 | } |  | I | Y |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 10 | 3) | 0965 | 0BF5 |  | J | Z |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 11 | * | 1) | 0BF6 |  | K |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 12 | + | 0BE6 | 0BF7 | [ | L |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 13 | 4) | 0BE7 | 0BF8 | ~ | M |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 14 | - | 0BE8 | 0BFA | ] | N |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 15 | / | 0BE9 | \ |  | O |  |  |   
NOTE 1): This code is reserved for the extension to another extension table. On receipt of this code, a receiving entity shall display a space until another extension table is defined. NOTE 2): Void NOTE 3): This code is defined as a Page Break character and may be used for example in compressed CBS messages. Any mobile station which does not understand the GSM 7 bit default alphabet table extension mechanism will treat this character as Line Feed. NOTE 4): This code represents a control character and therefore must not be used for language specific characters. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## A.2.12 Telugu National Language Single Shift Table
NOTE: In the table below, the Telugu characters are represented using Unicode.
|  |  |  | b7 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  | b6 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1  
|  |  |  | b5 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1  
b4 | b3 | b2 | b1 |  | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | @ |  | 06CC | 0C7F | B | R |  |   
0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 3 | ¥ | ¡ | 06CD |  | C | S |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 4 | ¿ | ^ | 0C6E |  | D | T |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 5 | " | ¡ | 0C6F |  | E | U |  |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 6 | ¤ | _ | 0C58 |  | F | V |  |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 7 | % | # | 0C59 |  | G | W |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 8 | & | * | { |  | H | X |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 9 | ' |  | } |  | I | Y |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 10 | 3) |  | 0C78 |  | J | Z |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 11 | * | 1) | 0C79 |  | K |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 12 | + | 0C66 | 0C7A | [ | L |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 13 | 4) | 0C67 | 0C7B | ~ | M |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 14 | - | 0C68 | 0C7C | ] | N |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 15 | / | 0C69 | \ |  | O |  |  |   
NOTE 1): This code is reserved for the extension to another extension table. On receipt of this code, a receiving entity shall display a space until another extension table is defined. NOTE 2): Void NOTE 3): This code is defined as a Page Break character and may be used for example in compressed CBS messages. Any mobile station which does not understand the GSM 7 bit default alphabet table extension mechanism will treat this character as Line Feed. NOTE 4): This code represents a control character and therefore must not be used for language specific characters. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## A.2.13 Urdu National Language Single Shift Table
NOTE: In the table below, the Urdu characters are represented using Unicode.
|  |  |  | b7 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  | b6 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1  
|  |  |  | b5 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1  
b4 | b3 | b2 | b1 |  | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | @ |  | 06F6 | 061B | B | R |  |   
0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 3 | ¥ | ¡ | 06F7 | 061F | C | S |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 4 | ¿ | ^ | 06F8 | 0640 | D | T |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 5 | " | ¡ | 06F9 | 0652 | E | U | € |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 6 | ¤ | _ | 060C | 0658 | F | V |  |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 7 | % | # | 060D | 066B | G | W |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 8 | & | * | { | 066C | H | X |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 9 | ' | 0600 | } | 0672 | I | Y |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 10 | 3) | 0601 | 060E | 0673 | J | Z |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 11 | * | 1) | 060F | 06CD | K |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 12 | + | 06F0 | 0610 | [ | L |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 13 | 4) | 06F1 | 0611 | ~ | M |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 14 | - | 06F2 | 0612 | ] | N |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 15 | / | 06F3 | \ | 06D4 | O |  |  |   
NOTE 1): This code is reserved for the extension to another extension table. On receipt of this code, a receiving entity shall display a space until another extension table is defined. NOTE 2): Void NOTE 3): This code is defined as a Page Break character and may be used for example in compressed CBS messages. Any mobile station which does not understand the GSM 7 bit default alphabet table extension mechanism will treat this character as Line Feed. NOTE 4): This code represents a control character and therefore must not be used for language specific characters. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
# A.3 National Language Locking Shift Tables
## A.3.1 Turkish National Language Locking Shift Table
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b7   0    0     0    0    1   1   1   1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b6   0    0     1    1    0   0   1   1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b5   0    1     0    1    0   1   0   1
b4 b3 b2 b1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 0 0 0 0 @ SP 0 İ P ç p 0 0 0 1 1 £ _ ! 1 A Q a q
0 0 1 0 2 \$ \" 2 B R b r 0 0 1 1 3 ¥ # 3 C S c s 0 1 0 0 4 € ¤ 4 D T d t 0 1
0 1 5 é \% 5 E U e u 0 1 1 0 6 ù & 6 F V f v 0 1 1 1 7 ı \' 7 G W g w 1 0 0 0
8 ò ( 8 H X h x 1 0 0 1 9 Ç ) 9 I Y i y 1 0 1 0 10 LF * : J Z j z 1 0 1 1 11 Ğ
1) + ; K Ä k ä 1 1 0 0 12 ğ Ş , \ N Ü n ü 1 1 1 1 15 å É / ? O § o à NOTE 1): This code is an escape
to an extension of this table (either to the GSM 7 bit default alphabet
extension table, see subclause 6.2.1.1, or a National Language Single Shift
Table, see subclause 6.2.1.2.2). A receiving entity which does not understand
the meaning of this escape mechanism shall display it as a space character.
* * *
## A.3.2 Void
## A.3.3 Portuguese National Language Locking Shift Table
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b7   0    0     0    0    1   1   1    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b6   0    0     1    1    0   0   1    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b5   0    1     0    1    0   1   0    1
b4 b3 b2 b1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 0 0 0 0 @ SP 0 Í P \~ p 0 0 0 1 1 £ _ ! 1 A Q a
q 0 0 1 0 2 \$ ª \" 2 B R b r 0 0 1 1 3 ¥ Ç # 3 C S c s 0 1 0 0 4 ê À º 4 D T
d t 0 1 0 1 5 é ∞ \% 5 E U e u 0 1 1 0 6 ú \^ & 6 F V f v 0 1 1 1 7 í \ \' 7 G
W g w 1 0 0 0 8 ó € ( 8 H X h x 1 0 0 1 9 ç Ó ) 9 I Y i y 1 0 1 0 10 LF \| * :
J Z j z 1 0 1 1 11 Ô 1) + ; K Ã k ã 1 1 0 0 12 ô Â , \ N Ü n ü 1 1 1 1 15 á É / ? O § o à NOTE 1):
This code is an escape to an extension of this table (either to the GSM 7 bit
default alphabet extension table, see subclause 6.2.1.1, or a National
Language Single Shift Table, see subclause 6.2.1.2.2). A receiving entity
which does not understand the meaning of this escape mechanism shall display
it as a space character.
* * *
## A.3.4 Bengali National Language Locking Shift Table
NOTE: In the table below, the Bengali characters are represented using
Unicode.
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b7   0      0      0      0      1      1      1      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b6   0      0      1      1      0      0      1      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b5   0      1      0      1      0      1      0      1
b4 b3 b2 b1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 0 0 0 0 0981 0990 SP 0 09AC 09BE 09CE p 0 0 0 1
1 0982 ! 1 09AD 09BF a q 0 0 1 0 2 0983 099F 2 09AE 09C0 b r 0 0 1 1 3 0985
0993 09A0 3 09AF 09C1 c s 0 1 0 0 4 0986 0994 09A1 4 09B0 09C2 d t 0 1 0 1 5
0987 0995 09A2 5 09C3 e u 0 1 1 0 6 0988 0996 09A3 6 09B2 09C4 f v 0 1 1 1 7
0989 0997 09A4 7 g w 1 0 0 0 8 098A 0998 ) 8 h x 1 0 0 1 9 098B 0999 ( 9 09C7
i y 1 0 1 0 10 LF 099A 09A5 : 09B6 09C8 j z 1 0 1 1 11 098C 1) 09A6 ; 09B7 k
09D7 1 1 0 0 12 099B , 09B8 l 09DC 1 1 0 1 13 CR 099C 09A7 09AA 09B9 09CB m
09DD 1 1 1 0 14 099D . 09AB 09BC 09CC n 09F0 1 1 1 1 15 098F 099E 09A8 ? 09BD
09CD o 09F1 NOTE 1): This code is an escape to an extension of this table
(either to the GSM 7 bit default alphabet extension table, see subclause
6.2.1.1, or a National Language Single Shift Table, see subclause 6.2.1.2.2).
A receiving entity which does not understand the meaning of this escape
mechanism shall display it as a space character.
* * *
## A.3.5 Gujarati National Language Locking Shift Table
NOTE: In the table below, the Gujarati characters are represented using
Unicode.
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b7   0      0      0      0      1      1      1      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b6   0      0      1      1      0      0      1      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b5   0      1      0      1      0      1      0      1
b4 b3 b2 b1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 0 0 0 0 0A81 0A90 SP 0 0AAC 0ABE 0AD0 p 0 0 0 1
1 0A82 0A91 ! 1 0AAD 0ABF a q 0 0 1 0 2 0A83 0A9F 2 0AAE 0AC0 b r 0 0 1 1 3
0A85 0A93 0AA0 3 0AAF 0AC1 c s 0 1 0 0 4 0A86 0A94 0AA1 4 0AB0 0AC2 d t 0 1 0
1 5 0A87 0A95 0AA2 5 0AC3 e u 0 1 1 0 6 0A88 0A96 0AA3 6 0AB2 0AC4 f v 0 1 1 1
7 0A89 0A97 0AA4 7 0AB3 0AC5 g w 1 0 0 0 8 0A8A 0A98 ) 8 h x 1 0 0 1 9 0A8B
0A99 ( 9 0AB5 0AC7 i y 1 0 1 0 10 LF 0A9A 0AA5 : 0AB6 0AC8 j z 1 0 1 1 11 0A8C
1) 0AA6 ; 0AB7 0AC9 k 0AE0 1 1 0 0 12 0A8D 0A9B , 0AB8 l 0AE1 1 1 0 1 13 CR
0A9C 0AA7 0AAA 0AB9 0ACB m 0AE2 1 1 1 0 14 0A9D . 0AAB 0ABC 0ACC n 0AE3 1 1 1
1 15 0A8F 0A9E 0AA8 ? 0ABD 0ACD o 0AF1 NOTE 1): This code is an escape to an
extension of this table (either to the GSM 7 bit default alphabet extension
table, see subclause 6.2.1.1, or a National Language Single Shift Table, see
subclause 6.2.1.2.2). A receiving entity which does not understand the meaning
of this escape mechanism shall display it as a space character.
* * *
## A.3.6 Hindi National Language Locking Shift Table
NOTE: In the table below, the Hindi characters are represented using Unicode.
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b7   0      0      0      0      1      1      1      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b6   0      0      1      1      0      0      1      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b5   0      1      0      1      0      1      0      1
b4 b3 b2 b1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 0 0 0 0 0901 0910 SP 0 092C 093E 0950 p 0 0 0 1
1 0902 0911 ! 1 092D 093F a q 0 0 1 0 2 0903 0912 091F 2 092E 0940 b r 0 0 1 1
3 0905 0913 0920 3 092F 0941 c s 0 1 0 0 4 0906 0914 0921 4 0930 0942 d t 0 1
0 1 5 0907 0915 0922 5 0931 0943 e u 0 1 1 0 6 0908 0916 0923 6 0932 0944 f v
0 1 1 1 7 0909 0917 0924 7 0933 0945 g w 1 0 0 0 8 090A 0918 ) 8 0934 0946 h x
1 0 0 1 9 090B 0919 ( 9 0935 0947 i y 1 0 1 0 10 LF 091A 0925 : 0936 0948 j z
1 0 1 1 11 090C 1) 0926 ; 0937 0949 k 0972 1 1 0 0 12 090D 091B , 0929 0938
094A l 097B 1 1 0 1 13 CR 091C 0927 092A 0939 094B m 097C 1 1 1 0 14 090E 091D
. 092B 093C 094C n 097E 1 1 1 1 15 090F 091E 0928 ? 093D 094D o 097F NOTE 1):
This code is an escape to an extension of this table (either to the GSM 7 bit
default alphabet extension table, see subclause 6.2.1.1, or a National
Language Single Shift Table, see subclause 6.2.1.2.2). A receiving entity
which does not understand the meaning of this escape mechanism shall display
it as a space character.
* * *
## A.3.7 Kannada National Language Locking Shift Table
NOTE: In the table below, the Kannada characters are represented using
Unicode.
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b7   0      0      0      0      1      1      1      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b6   0      0      1      1      0      0      1      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b5   0      1      0      1      0      1      0      1
b4 b3 b2 b1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 0 0 0 0 0C90 SP 0 0CAC 0CBE 0CD5 p 0 0 0 1 1
0C82 ! 1 0CAD 0CBF a q 0 0 1 0 2 0C83 0C92 0C9F 2 0CAE 0CC0 b r 0 0 1 1 3 0C85
0C93 0CA0 3 0CAF 0CC1 c s 0 1 0 0 4 0C86 0C94 0CAA 4 0CB0 0CC2 d t 0 1 0 1 5
0C87 0C95 0CA2 5 0CB1 0CC3 e u 0 1 1 0 6 0C88 0C96 0CA3 6 0CB2 0CC4 f v 0 1 1
1 7 0C89 0C97 0CA4 7 0CB3 g w 1 0 0 0 8 0C8A 0C98 ) 8 0CC6 h x 1 0 0 1 9 0C8B
0C99 ( 9 0CB5 0CC7 i y 1 0 1 0 10 LF 0C9A 0CA5 : 0CB6 0CC8 j z 1 0 1 1 11 0C8C
1) 0CA6 ; 0CB7 k 0CD6 1 1 0 0 12 0C9B , 0CB8 0CCA l 0CE0 1 1 0 1 13 CR 0C9C
0CA7 0CAA 0CB9 0CCB m 0CE1 1 1 1 0 14 0C8E 0C9D . 0CAB 0CBC 0CCC n 0CE2 1 1 1
1 15 0C8F 0C9E 0CA8 ? 0CBD 0CCD o 0CE3 NOTE 1): This code is an escape to an
extension of this table (either to the GSM 7 bit default alphabet extension
table, see subclause 6.2.1.1, or a National Language Single Shift Table, see
subclause 6.2.1.2.2). A receiving entity which does not understand the meaning
of this escape mechanism shall display it as a space character.
* * *
## A.3.8 Malayalam National Language Locking Shift Table
NOTE: In the table below, the Malayalam characters are represented using
Unicode.
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b7   0      0      0      0      1      1      1      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b6   0      0      1      1      0      0      1      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b5   0      1      0      1      0      1      0      1
b4 b3 b2 b1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 0 0 0 0 0D10 SP 0 0D2C 0D3E 0D57 p 0 0 0 1 1
0D02 ! 1 0D2D 0D3F a q 0 0 1 0 2 0D03 0D12 0D1F 2 0D2E 0D40 b r 0 0 1 1 3 0D05
0D13 0D20 3 0D2F 0D41 c s 0 1 0 0 4 0D06 0D14 0D21 4 0D30 0D42 d t 0 1 0 1 5
0D07 0D15 0D22 5 0D31 0D43 e u 0 1 1 0 6 0D08 0D16 0D23 6 0D32 0D44 f v 0 1 1
1 7 0D09 0D17 0D24 7 0D33 g w 1 0 0 0 8 0D0A 0D18 ) 8 0D34 0D46 h x 1 0 0 1 9
0D0B 0D19 ( 9 0D35 0D47 i y 1 0 1 0 10 LF 0D1A 0D25 : 0D36 0D48 j z 1 0 1 1 11
0D0C 1) 0D26 ; 0D37 k 0D60 1 1 0 0 12 0D1B , 0D38 0D4A l 0D61 1 1 0 1 13 CR
0D1C 0D27 0D2A 0D39 0D4B m 0D62 1 1 1 0 14 0D0E 0D1D . 0D2B 0D4C n 0D63 1 1 1
1 15 0D0F 0D1E 0D28 ? 0D3D 0D4D o 0D79 NOTE 1): This code is an escape to an
extension of this table (either to the GSM 7 bit default alphabet extension
table, see subclause 6.2.1.1, or a National Language Single Shift Table, see
subclause 6.2.1.2.2). A receiving entity which does not understand the meaning
of this escape mechanism shall display it as a space character.
* * *
## A.3.9 Oriya National Language Locking Shift Table
NOTE: In the table below, the Oriya characters are represented using Unicode.
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b7   0      0      0      0      1       1      1      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b6   0      0      1      1      0       0      1      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b5   0      1      0      1      0       1      0      1
b4 b3 b2 b1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 0 0 0 0 0B01 0B10 SP 0 0B2C 0B3E 0B56 p 0 0 0 1
1 0B02 ! 1 0B2D 0B3F a q 0 0 1 0 2 0B03 0B1F 2 0B2E 0B40 b r 0 0 1 1 3 0B05
0B13 0B20 3 0B2F 0B41 c s 0 1 0 0 4 0B06 0B14 0B21 4 0B30 0B42 d t 0 1 0 1 5
0B07 0B15 0B22 5 0B43 e u 0 1 1 0 6 0B08 0B16 0B23 6 0B32 0B44 f v 0 1 1 1 7
0B09 0B17 0B24 7 ଼0B33 g w 1 0 0 0 8 0B0A 0B18 ) 8 h x 1 0 0 1 9 0B0B 0B19 ( 9
0B35 0B47 i y 1 0 1 0 10 LF 0B1A 0B25 : 0B36 0B48 j z 1 0 1 1 11 0B0C 1) 0B26
; 0B37 k 0B57 1 1 0 0 12 0B1B , 0B38 l 0B60 1 1 0 1 13 CR 0B1C 0B27 0B2A 0B39
0B4B m 0B61 1 1 1 0 14 0B1D . 0B2B 0B3C 0B4C n 0B62 1 1 1 1 15 0B0F 0B1E 0B28
? 0B3D 0B4D o 0B63 NOTE 1): This code is an escape to an extension of this
table (either to the GSM 7 bit default alphabet extension table, see subclause
6.2.1.1, or a National Language Single Shift Table, see subclause 6.2.1.2.2).
A receiving entity which does not understand the meaning of this escape
mechanism shall display it as a space character.
* * *
## A.3.10 Punjabi National Language Locking Shift Table
NOTE: In the table below, the Punjabi characters are represented using
Unicode.
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b7   0      0      0      0      1      1      1      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b6   0      0      1      1      0      0      1      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b5   0      1      0      1      0      1      0      1
b4 b3 b2 b1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 0 0 0 0 0A01 0A10 SP 0 0A2C 0A3E 0A51 p 0 0 0 1
1 0A02 ! 1 0A2D 0A3F a q 0 0 1 0 2 0A03 0A1F 2 0A2E 0A40 b r 0 0 1 1 3 0A05
0A13 0A20 3 0A2F 0A41 c s 0 1 0 0 4 0A06 0A14 0A21 4 0A30 0A42 d t 0 1 0 1 5
0A07 0A15 0A22 5 e u 0 1 1 0 6 0A08 0A16 0A23 6 0A32 f v 0 1 1 1 7 0A09 0A17
0A24 7 0A33 g w 1 0 0 0 8 0A0A 0A18 ) 8 h x 1 0 0 1 9 0A19 ( 9 0A35 0A47 i y 1
0 1 0 10 LF 0A1A 0A25 : 0A36 0A48 j z 1 0 1 1 11 1) 0A26 ; k 0A70 1 1 0 0 12
0A1B , 0A38 l 0A71 1 1 0 1 13 CR 0A1C 0A27 0A2A 0A39 0A4B m 0A72 1 1 1 0 14
0A1D . 0A2B 0A3C 0A4C n 0A73 1 1 1 1 15 0A0F 0A1E 0A28 ? 0A4D o 0A74 NOTE 1):
This code is an escape to an extension of this table (either to the GSM 7 bit
default alphabet extension table, see subclause 6.2.1.1, or a National
Language Single Shift Table, see subclause 6.2.1.2.2). A receiving entity
which does not understand the meaning of this escape mechanism shall display
it as a space character.
* * *
## A.3.11 Tamil National Language Locking Shift Table
NOTE: In the table below, the Tamil characters are represented using Unicode.
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b7   0      0      0      0      1      1      1      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b6   0      0      1      1      0      0      1      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b5   0      1      0      1      0      1      0      1
b4 b3 b2 b1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 0 0 0 0 0B90 SP 0 0BBE 0BD0 p 0 0 0 1 1 0B82 ! 1
0BBF a q 0 0 1 0 2 0B83 0B92 0B9F 2 0BAE 0BC0 b r 0 0 1 1 3 0B85 0B93 3 0BAF
0BC1 c s 0 1 0 0 4 0B86 0B94 4 0BB0 0BC2 d t 0 1 0 1 5 0B87 0B95 5 0BB1 e u 0
1 1 0 6 0B88 0BA3 6 0BB2 f v 0 1 1 1 7 0B89 0BA4 7 0BB3 g w 1 0 0 0 8 0B8A ) 8
0BB4 0BC6 h x 1 0 0 1 9 0B99 ( 9 0BB5 0BC7 i y 1 0 1 0 10 LF 0B9A : 0BB6 0BC8
j z 1 0 1 1 11 1) ; 0BB7 k 0BD7 1 1 0 0 12 , 0BA9 0BB8 0BCA l 0BF0 1 1 0 1 13
CR 0B9C 0BAA 0BB9 0BCB m 0BF1 1 1 1 0 14 0B8E . 0BCC n 0BF2 1 1 1 1 15 0B8F
0B9E 0BA8 ? 0BCD o 0BF9 NOTE 1): This code is an escape to an extension of
this table (either to the GSM 7 bit default alphabet extension table, see
subclause 6.2.1.1, or a National Language Single Shift Table, see subclause
6.2.1.2.2). A receiving entity which does not understand the meaning of this
escape mechanism shall display it as a space character.
* * *
## A.3.12 Telugu National Language Locking Shift Table
NOTE: In the table below, the Telugu characters are represented using Unicode.
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b7   0      0      0      0      1      1      1      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b6   0      0      1      1      0      0      1      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b5   0      1      0      1      0      1      0      1
b4 b3 b2 b1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 0 0 0 0 0C01 0C10 SP 0 0C2C 0C3E 0C55 p 0 0 0 1
1 0C02 ! 1 0C2D 0C3F a q 0 0 1 0 2 0C03 0C12 0C1F 2 0C2E 0C40 b r 0 0 1 1 3
0C05 0C13 0C20 3 0C2F 0C41 c s 0 1 0 0 4 0C06 0C14 0C21 4 0C30 0C42 d t 0 1 0
1 5 0C07 0C15 0C22 5 0C31 0C43 e u 0 1 1 0 6 0C08 0C16 0C23 6 0C32 0C44 f v 0
1 1 1 7 0C09 0C17 0C24 7 0C33 g w 1 0 0 0 8 0C0A 0C18 ) 8 0C46 h x 1 0 0 1 9
0C0B 0C19 ( 9 0C35 0C47 i y 1 0 1 0 10 LF 0C1A 0C25 : 0C36 0C48 j z 1 0 1 1 11
0C0C 1) 0C26 ; 0C37 k 0C56 1 1 0 0 12 0C1B , 0C38 0C4A l 0C60 1 1 0 1 13 CR
0C1C 0C27 0C2A 0C39 0C4B m 0C61 1 1 1 0 14 0C0E 0C1D . 0C2B 0C4C n 0C62 1 1 1
1 15 0C0F 0C1E 0C28 ? 0C3D 0C4D o 0C63 NOTE 1): This code is an escape to an
extension of this table (either to the GSM 7 bit default alphabet extension
table, see subclause 6.2.1.1, or a National Language Single Shift Table, see
subclause 6.2.1.2.2). A receiving entity which does not understand the meaning
of this escape mechanism shall display it as a space character.
* * *
## A.3.13 Urdu National Language Locking Shift Table
NOTE: In the table below, the Urdu characters are represented using Unicode.
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b7   0      0      0      0      1      1      1      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b6   0      0      1      1      0      0      1      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b5   0      1      0      1      0      1      0      1
b4 b3 b2 b1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 0 0 0 0 0627 062B SP 0 0635 06BA 0654 p 0 0 0 1
1 0622 062C ! 1 0636 06BB a q 0 0 1 0 2 0628 0681 068F 2 0637 06BC b r 0 0 1 1
3 067B 0684 068D 3 0638 0648 c s 0 1 0 0 4 0680 0683 0630 4 0639 06C4 d t 0 1
0 1 5 067E 0685 0631 5 0641 06D5 e u 0 1 1 0 6 06A6 0686 0691 6 0642 06C1 f v
0 1 1 1 7 062A 0687 0693 7 06A9 06BE g w 1 0 0 0 8 06C2 062D ) 8 06AA 0621 h x
1 0 0 1 9 067F 062E ( 9 06AB 06CC i y 1 0 1 0 10 LF 062F 0699 : 06AF 06D0 j z
1 0 1 1 11 0679 1) 0632 ; 06B3 06D2 k 0655 1 1 0 0 12 067D 068C , 069A 06B1
064D l 0651 1 1 0 1 13 CR 0688 0696 0633 0644 0650 m 0653 1 1 1 0 14 067A 0689
. 0634 0645 064F n 0656 1 1 1 1 15 067C 068A 0698 ? 0646 0657 o 0670 NOTE 1):
This code is an escape to an extension of this table (either to the GSM 7 bit
default alphabet extension table, see subclause 6.2.1.1, or a National
Language Single Shift Table, see subclause 6.2.1.2.2). A receiving entity
which does not understand the meaning of this escape mechanism shall display
it as a space character.
* * *
###### ## Annex B (informative): Guidelines for creating language tables
# B.1 Introduction
This annex provides guidelines for creating language tables.
It is recommended that the characters and their positions in the table are
checked by people fluent in the appropriate language, and preferably endorsed
by an appropriate responsible body.
It is recommended that character positions are carefully selected so that
receiving entities, which do not support the specific table, display symbols
(glyphs) similar to the wanted symbols (glyphs) as far as possible.
# B.2 Template for Single Shift Language Tables
The format and structure of the table below shall be used to document the
Language specific character codes used in the National Language selection
mechanism.
It is recommended that a National Language Single Shift Table includes the
characters represented in the GSM 7 bit default alphabet extension table (as
defined in subclause 6.2.1.1) in the same character position. This ensures the
availability of these characters in case when the single shift mechanism is
used.
Language -- (Note. The actual Country and table content will be annotated when
the country is known).
|  |  |  | b7 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  | b6 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1  
|  |  |  | b5 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1  
b4 | b3 | b2 | b1 |  | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
0 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 4 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 5 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 6 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 7 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 8 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 9 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 10 | 3) |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 11 |  | 1) |  |  |  |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 12 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 13 | 4) |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 14 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE 1): This code is reserved for the extension to another extension table. On receipt of this code, a receiving entity shall display a space until another extension table is defined. NOTE 2): Void NOTE 3): This code is defined as a Page Break character and may be used for example in compressed CBS messages. Any mobile station which does not understand the GSM 7 bit default alphabet table extension mechanism will treat this character as Line Feed. NOTE 4): This code represents a control character and therefore must not be used for language specific characters. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
# B.3 Template for Locking Shift Language Tables
The format and structure of the table below shall be used to document the
Language specific character codes used in the National Language selection
mechanism.
Language -- (Note. The actual Country and table content will be annotated when
the country is known).
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b7   0    0     0    0   1   1   1   1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b6   0    0     1    1   0   0   1   1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b5   0    1     0    1   0   1   0   1
b4 b3 b2 b1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 0 0 0 0 SP  
0 0 0 1 1  
0 0 1 0 2  
0 0 1 1 3  
0 1 0 0 4  
0 1 0 1 5  
0 1 1 0 6  
0 1 1 1 7  
1 0 0 0 8  
1 0 0 1 9  
1 0 1 0 10 LF  
1 0 1 1 11 1)  
1 1 0 0 12  
1 1 0 1 13 CR  
1 1 1 0 14  
1 1 1 1 15  
NOTE 1): This code is an escape to an extension of this table (either to the
GSM 7 bit default alphabet extension table, see subclause 6.2.1.1, or a
National Language Single Shift Table, see subclause 6.2.1.2.2). A receiving
entity which does not understand the meaning of this escape mechanism shall
display it as a space character.
* * *
###### ## Annex C (Informative): Example for locking shift and single shift
mechanisms
# C.1 Introduction
This annex gives an overview on how the national language extension mechanism
of the GSM 7 bit default alphabet works. This annex shows how a message with
an indication of the Turkish National Language Identifier is decoded, but the
same principles apply to other languages.
# C.2 Example of single shift
This example outlines the behaviour of both supporting and non-supporting
receiving entities where the Turkish National Language Single Shift Table is
indicated in the received message. In this example there is no locking shift
mechanism used in parallel.
A non-supporting receiving entity will ignore the National Language Single
Shift IE, and decode the message contents using the GSM 7 bit default alphabet
table defined in subclause 6.2.1, including possible escape characters to the
GSM 7 bit default alphabet extension table specified in subclause 6.2.1.1. For
example the Turkish word \"Türkçe\" will be displayed as \"Türkce\".
A receiving entity that supports the Turkish National Language Single Shift
Table will detect a National Language Single Shift IE in a TP User Data
Header. This IE tells the receiving entity that the single shift mechanism is
used.
A supporting receiving entity will notice the language code, in this example
coded as \'0000 0001\', and therefore use the Turkish National Language Single
Shift Table defined in subclause A.2.1 instead of the GSM 7 bit default
alphabet extension table defined in subclause 6.2.1.
If the next character is any character except \, then the GSM 7 bit
default alphabet table is used for the decode. If the next character is
\ then the Turkish language specific table is used for the decode of
the one character that follows the \. This process will be repeated
until the end of the received message, or until the end of the current segment
of a concatenated message.
The Language selection at the start of a message takes 4 octets which
correspond to five 7 bit characters which reduces the maximum number of
characters per single message to 155.
Thereafter, the number of characters within that single message will be
dependent upon the number of times a character is used that is within the
National Language Single Shift Table.
Every character used from the National Language Single Shift Table will need
an additional character to identify the escape to the National Language Single
Shift Table. The available 155 character capacity of a single message will
therefore be reduced accordingly. This reduction of overall message length
also applies when using characters from the GSM 7 bit default alphabet
extension table (see subclause 6.2.1.1) when the National Language Single
Shift IE is not used.
# C.3 Example of locking shift
This example outlines the behaviour of both supporting and non-supporting
receiving entities where the Turkish National Language Locking Shift Table is
indicated in the received message.
A non-supporting receiving entity will ignore the National Language Locking
Shift IE, and decode the message contents using the GSM 7 bit default alphabet
defined in subclause 6.2.1, including possible escape characters to the GSM 7
bit default alphabet extensions specified in subclause 6.2.1.1.
A receiving entity that supports the scheme will detect a National Language
Locking Shift IE in a TP User Data Header. This IE tells the receiving entity
that the locking shift mechanism is used. If no National Language Single Shift
IE is indicated additionally to the National Language Locking Shift IE, then
the whole message is decoded using the National Language Locking Shift Table
defined for Turkish language in subclause 6.2.1.2.4.1.
If, in addition to the National Language Locking Shift IE (which may be for
Turkish or another language), a National Language Single Shift IE for the
Turkish language is indicated, then \ makes an exception to the use of
the National Language Locking Shift Table for the Turkish or another language.
In that case a character following \ is decoded using the National
Language Single Shift Table for the Turkish language, after which the use of
the National Language Locking Shift Table for the Turkish or another language
is resumed until the next \ or the end of the message is met.
The Language selection at the start of a message takes 4 octets which
corresponds to five 7 bit characters which reduces the maximum number of
characters per single message to 155, unless the National Language Single
Shift IE has also been included, in which case there is a further reduction of
3 octets making 7 octets in total, which corresponds to eight 7 bit
characters, which reduces the maximum number of characters per single message
to 152.
Thereafter, if the single shift mechanism is used additionally to the locking
shift mechanism, the number of characters within that single message will be
dependent upon the number of times a character is used that is within the
National Language Single Shift Table.
Every character in the National Language Single Shift Table will use an
additional character. The available 152 character single message length will
therefore be reduced accordingly. This reduction of overall message length
also applies when using characters from the GSM 7 bit default alphabet
extension table (see subclause 6.2.1.1) when the National Language Single
Shift IE is not used.
#