# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
In order to ensure efficient use and deployment of UAS on 3GPP networks an
architecture for UAS application layer consisting of UAS application enabler
is specified in this document.
The UAE application enabler capabilities takes into consideration the existing
stage 1 and stage 2 work within 3GPP related to UAS in 3GPP TS 22.125 [2] and
3GPP TS 23.256 [4].
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the functional architecture, procedures and
information flows for UAS application enabler layer. This specification
includes the capabilities of the application layer support for UAS that are
necessary to ensure efficient use and deployment of UAS over 3GPP systems. The
UAS application enabler capabilities applies to both EPS and 5GS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.125: \"Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) support in 3GPP; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.222: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
Common API Framework for 3GPP Northbound APIs; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.256: \"Support of Uncrewed Aerial Systems (UAS) connectivity,
identification, and tracking; Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.434: \"Service Enabler Architecture Layer for Verticals (SEAL);
Functional architecture and information flows\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS); Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.558: \"Architecture for enabling Edge Applications\"
[8] 3GPP TS 23.682: \"Architecture enhancements to facilitate communications
with packet data networks and applications\".
[9] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS); Protocols
and codecs\".
[10] 3GPP TS 26.348: \"Northbound Application Programming Interface (API) for
Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS) at the xMB reference point\".
[11] 3GPP TS 29.214: \"Policy and Charging Control over Rx reference point\".
[12] 3GPP TS 29.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers for LTE (GCSE_LTE);
MB2 Reference Point; Stage 3\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System (5GS)\".
# 3 Definitions of terms and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**DAA application policy:** The configuration provided to the UAS application
specific client by a UAS application specific server for handling of detect
and avoid.
**DAA assist capability:** The functionality for the UAE layer to assist the
UAV application specific layer with handling of detect and avoid during
flight.
**Multi-USS capability:** The functionality for the UAE layer to assist at
change of USS during flight.
NOTE: A UAV with Multi-USS capability can be controlled by more than one USS
during a flight, but at any given time, the UAV is under the control of only
one USS.
**Multi-USS policy:** The configuration provided by a UAS application specific
server to assist at change of USS.
**Remote Identification (Remote ID) of UAS:** The ability of a UAS to provide
identification and tracking information that can be received by other parties,
to facilitate advanced operations for the UAS (such as Beyond Visual Line of
Sight operations as well as operations over people), assist regulatory
agencies, air traffic management agencies, law enforcement, and security
agencies when a UAS appears to be flying in an unsafe manner or where the UAS
is not allowed to fly.
**UAS Service Supplier (USS):** An entity that provides services to support
the safe and efficient use of airspace by providing services to the operator /
pilot of a UAS in meeting UTM operational requirements. A USS can provide any
subset of functionality to meet the provider\'s business objectives (e.g.,
UTM, Remote Identification). In the scope of this specification, the term USS
refers to both USS and USS/UTM.
**UAV:** The Uncrewed Aerial Vehicle (also called remotely piloted aircraft or
drone) of a UAS.
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms given in 3GPP TS
22.125 [2] apply
**Command and Control (C2) Communication**
**Uncrewed Aerial System (UAS)**
**Uncrewed Aerial System Traffic Management (UTM)**
**UAV controller**
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms given in clause
4.2 of 3GPP TS 22.125 [2] apply
**Direct C2 Communication**
**Network-Assisted C2 communication**
**UTM-Navigated C2 communication**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
BVLOS Beyond Visual Line Of Sight
C2 Command and Control
CAPIF Common API Framework for northbound APIs
DAA Detect And Avoid
QoS Quality of Service
SEAL Service Enabler Architecture Layer
UAE UAS Application Enabler
UAS Uncrewed Aerial System
UAV Uncrewed Aerial Vehicle
UAV-C Uncrewed Aerial Vehicle-Controller
USS UAS Service Supplier
UTM UAS Traffic Management
# 4 Architectural requirements
## 4.1 General
[AR-4.1-a] The UAS application enabler layer shall support one or more UAS
applications.
[AR-4.1-b] The UAE capabilities should be offered as APIs to the UAS
applications.
## 4.2 Support for communications between UAVs
### 4.2.1 Description
This clause specifies the requirements for support for communications between
UAVs.
### 4.2.2 Requirements
[AR-4.2-a] The UAS application enabler layer shall provide mechanism to
support communications between UAVs in a geographical area using unicast Uu.
## 4.3 QoS provisioning for C2 communication
### 4.3.1 Description
This clause specifies the C2 QoS provisioning related requirements.
### 4.3.2 Requirements
[AR-4.3.2-a] The UAE layer capabilities shall enable C2 application QoS
parameter provisioning for network-assisted C2 communications to the 3GPP
network system.
[AR-4.3.2-b] The UAE layer capabilities shall enable QoS differentiation for
UAV operations.
[AR-4.3.2-c] The UAE server shall be capable of obtaining monitoring events
related to the C2 QoS fulfilment/unfulfilment from the UAE clients (UAV and/or
UAV controller).
[AR-4.3.2-d] The UAE layer capabilities shall enable QoS parameters
modification to support meeting the C2 end-to-end application requirements,
for paired-Uu connections between a UAV and UE-based UAV-C.
## 4.4 C2 communication mode switching
### 4.4.1 Description
This clause specifies the C2 communication mode switching related
requirements.
### 4.4.2 Requirements
[AR-4.4.2-a] The UAE Server shall provide a mechanism for configuring the C2
communication modes at the UAE Client (UAV and UAV-C).
[AR-4.4.2-b] The UAE Client (UAV and UAV-C) and UAV Server shall provide
mechanisms for switching between the C2 communication links.
[AR-4.4.2-c] The UAE Client (UAV and UAV-C) shall provide a mechanism for
selecting a primary and a secondary communication link based on C2
communication mode configuration information.
[AR-4.4.2-d] The UAE Client (UAV or UAV-C) shall provide a mechanism to switch
C2 communication link without involving the UAE Server when an immediate
change of C2 communication mode is needed.
[AR-4.4.2-e] The UAE Server shall provide a mechanism for monitoring the
availability of ProSe/PC5 link for C2 communications.
[AR-4.4.2-f] The UAE Client shall be capable of reporting the availability of
ProSe/PC5 link for C2 communications.
## 4.5 Support for monitoring of UAV location deviation
### 4.5.1 Description
This clause specifies the requirements for location reporting capabilities to
monitor the UAV location deviation.
### 4.5.2 Requirements
[AR-4.5.2-a] The SEAL layer shall provide mechanism to support the monitoring
of UAV location.
## 4.6 Support for reporting of UAV events
### 4.6.1 Description
This clause specifies the requirements for support for reporting of UAV events
to USS/UTM.
### 4.6.2 Requirements
[AR-4.6.2-a] The SEAL layer shall provide mechanism to support the reporting
of the 3GPP related UAV events to the USS/UTM.
## 4.7 Support for multi-USS deployments
### 4.7.1 Description
This clause specifies the requirements for support of multi-USS deployments.
### 4.7.2 Requirements
[AR-4.7.2-a] The UAE Server shall provide a mechanism for the UAE Client to
report its multi-USS capability to the UAE Server.
[AR-4.7.2-b] The UAE Server shall provide a mechanism for enabling USS for
configuring the Multi-USS policies to the UAE Client (UAV).
[AR-4.7.2-c] The UAV Server shall provide a mechanism to support change of USS
during UAS operations.
[AR-4.7.2-d] The UAE Client (UAV) shall provide a mechanism to support change
of USS based on the policies for multi-USS configuration when an immediate
change of USS is needed.
## 4.8 Support of detect and avoid services and applications
### 4.8.1 Description
This clause specifies the requirements related to support for detect and avoid
services and applications.
### 4.8.2 Requirements
[AR-4.8.2-a] The UAE Server shall provide a mechanism for the UAE Client to
report its DAA assist capability to the UAE Server.
[AR-4.8.2-b] The UAE Server shall provide a mechanism for enabling USS for
configuring the DAA policies to the UAE Client (UAV).
[AR-4.8.2-c] The UAE layer shall provide a mechanism for a UAS application
specific server to obtain DAA related events for a UAV.
[AR-4.8.2-d] The UAS application enabler layer shall provide a mechanism for a
UAS application specific client to obtain DAA related events for a UAV.
# 5 Functional model
## 5.1 General
The functional model for the UAS application layer is organized into
functional entities to describe a functional architecture which addresses the
application layer support aspects for UAS applications.
## 5.2 Functional model description
Figures 5.2-1 and 5.2-2 illustrates the simplified architectural models for
the UAS application layer.
Figure 5.2-1: Simplified architectural model for the UAS application layer
Figure 5.2-2: Simplified architectural model for U2 connectivity between UAS
UE1 and UAS UE2 at the UAS application layer
The UAS UE1 communicates with UAS application server over U1 reference point.
The UAS UE1 and UAS UE2 communicate over U2 reference point.
NOTE 1: Support for UE-to-network relay architecture for UAS communications is
out of scope of the present document.
The UAS UE1 and the UAS UE2 may be a UAV Controller or a UAV.
NOTE 2: The UAV Controller can connect to the UAV via a transport independent
of 3GPP. Such UAV Controller is not a 3GPP UE and is out of scope of the
present document.
NOTE 3: Support of PC5 at the U2 reference point for 5GS is out of scope of
the present document.
The reference point U1 supports the UAS application related interactions
between UAS UE and UAS application server. It is expected that this reference
point is supported at least for unicast delivery mode, and may support
multicast delivery mode. The reference point U2 supports the interactions
between the UAS UEs. The UAS application server can be the USS/UTM.
The reference point U1 is based on Uu connectivity as specified in 3GPP TS
23.256 [4].
The reference point U2 is based on Uu connectivity as specified in 3GPP TS
23.256 [4].
NOTE 4: Support of multicast delivery over Uu for 5GS is out of scope of the
present document.
Figure 5.2-3 illustrates the detailed UAS application layer functional model.
It enhances the simplified architectural model for the UAS application layer
by specifying the functional entities at the UAS application layer.
Figure 5.2-3: UAS application layer functional model
Figure 5.2-4 illustrates the detailed UAS application layer functional model
where the UAV-C has a network‑assisted connectivity with the UAV.
Figure 5.2-4: UAS application layer functional model with UAV-C having
network-assisted connectivity with UAV
The UAS application layer functional entities for the UAS UE and the UAS
application server are grouped into the UAS application specific layer and the
UAE layer. The UAE layer offers the UAE capabilities to the UAS application
specific layer. The UAS application layer functional model utilizes the SEAL
services as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
The UAE server is located in the UAE layer. The SEAL services/UAS application
specific layer utilized by UAE layer may include location management, group
management, configuration management, identity management, key management and
network resource management. The UAS application specific layer consists of
the UAS application specific functionalities.
NOTE 5: The functionalities of the UAS application specific layer include the
USS/UTM and are out of scope of the present document.
The following connectivity path for the UAS is supported when both the UAV-C
and the UAV are 3GPP UEs:
\- UAV-C to UAV over U2 (Uu connectivity).
The UAS application server consists of the UAE server, the SEAL servers and
the UAS application specific server. The UAE server provides the UAS
application layer support functions to the UAS application specific server
over Us reference point. The SEAL servers provide the SEAL services to the UAS
application specific server/UAE server over SEAL-S reference point.
The UAS UE consists of the UAE client, the SEAL clients and the UAS
application specific client. The UAE client provides the UAS application layer
support functions to the UAS application specific client over Uc reference
point. The SEAL clients provide the SEAL services to the UAS application
specific client/UAE client over SEAL-C reference point.
NOTE 6: In some deployments, the client and server entities of SEAL can be
part of UAE client and UAE server respectively.
The UAS application specific client/UAE client acts as a VAL client for its
interaction with the SEAL clients as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5]. The UAS
application specific server/UAE server acts as a VAL server for its
interaction with the SEAL servers as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
In the UAE layer, the UAE client communicates with the UAE server over U1-AE
reference point. In the UAS application specific layer, the UAS application
specific client communicates with UAS application specific server over U1-APP
reference point.
NOTE 7: The U1-APP reference point includes UAV Controller/UAV to USS/UTM
communication and is out of scope of the present document.
In the UAE layer, the UAE client of UAS UE2 communicates with UAE client of
UAS UE1 over U2-AE reference point. In the UAS application specific layer, the
UAS application specific client of UAS UE2 communicates with UAE client of UAS
UE1 over U2-APP reference point.
NOTE 8: The U2-APP reference point is out of scope of the present document.
The following SEAL services for UAS applications may include:
\- Location management as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5];
\- Group management as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5];
\- Configuration management as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5];
\- Identity management as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5];
\- Key management as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5]; and
\- Network resource management as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
The UAS application specific client/UAE client interacts with SEAL clients
over the SEAL-C reference point specified for each SEAL service. The UAS
application specific server/UAE server interacts with SEAL servers over the
SEAL-S reference point specified for each SEAL service. The interaction
between the SEAL clients is supported by SEAL-PC5 reference point specified
for each SEAL service. The interaction between a SEAL client and the
corresponding SEAL server is supported by SEAL-UU reference point specified
for each SEAL service.
NOTE 9: The SEAL-C, SEAL-S, SEAL-PC5, SEAL-UU reference points for each SEAL
service is specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
To support distributed UAE server deployments, the UAE server interacts with
another UAE server over UAE-E reference point.
A U1-AE message can be sent over at least unicast, and may be sent over
transparent multicast via xMB or transparent multicast via MB2. The non-
transparent multicast via xMB (as specified in 3GPP TS 26.348 [10]) is
triggered by a U1-AE message. Multicast distribution can be supported by both
transparent and non-transparent multicast modes.
The UAE server interacts with the 3GPP network system over U2, MB2, xMB, Rx,
T8 and Nnef reference points.
## 5.3 Functional entities description
### 5.3.1 General
Each clause specifies a description of a functional entity corresponding to
UAS application layer and does not imply a physical entity.
### 5.3.2 UAS application specific client
The UAS application specific client provides the client side functionalities
corresponding to the UAS applications (e.g. Client interacting with USS/UTM).
The UAS application specific client utilizes the UAE client for the UAS
application layer support functions.
NOTE: The details of the UAS application specific client is out of scope of
the present document.
### 5.3.3 UAS application specific server
The UAS application specific server provides the server side functionalities
corresponding to the UAS applications (e.g. USS/UTM). The UAS application
specific server utilizes the UAE server for the UAS application layer support
functions. If CAPIF is supported, the UAS application specific server acts as
CAPIF\'s API invoker as specified in 3GPP TS 23.222 [3].
NOTE: The details of the UAS application specific server is out of scope of
the present document.
### 5.3.4 UAE client
The UAE client supports interactions with the UAS application specific
client(s).
The UAE client provides the client side UAS application layer support
functions as below:
\- receiving and storing C2 operation mode configurations;
\- selecting primary and secondary C2 communication modes based on the
configurations;
\- switching of C2 communication in emergency scenarios;
\- supporting UAV application message communication handling;
\- providing the UAE server with the Multi-USS capability;
\- receiving and storing Multi-USS and DAA application policies;
\- based on Multi-USS policies, switching of UAS application specific server
in emergency scenarios.
\- determining information of UAVs in proximity of the UAV and providing to
the UAE server and/or UAS application specific client; and
\- receiving information of UAVs in application defined proximity range/area
of the host UAV from UAE server and providing to the UAS application specific
client.
### 5.3.5 UAE server
If CAPIF is supported, the UAE server acts as CAPIF\'s API exposing function
to provide service APIs to the UAS application specific server (e.g. USS/UTM)
or another UAE server as specified in 3GPP TS 23.222 [3], or acts as CAPIF\'s
API invoker to consume the service APIs provided by another UAE server.
The UAE server provides the server side UAS application layer support
functions as below:
\- performing group based QoS management for the UAS (i.e. pair of UAV and
UAV-C) by using SEAL APIs.
\- receiving C2 operation mode configuration from UAS application specific
servers (e.g. USS/UTM) and further configuring the UAS UEs (i.e. UAV, UAV-C);
\- triggering C2 communication mode switching with the UAS UEs;
\- receiving and storing the selected C2 communication modes from the UAS UEs;
\- monitoring the real-time status of UAS UEs by using SEAL APIs;
\- supporting UAV application message communications between UAVs;
\- receiving Multi-USS and DAA application policies from UAS application
specific servers and further configuring the UAS UEs (i.e. UAV).
\- determining location information of UAVs and providing to the UAE client
and/or UAS application specific server; and
\- providing information of UAVs in application defined proximity range/area
of the host UAV to the UAE client and the UAS application specific server.
### 5.3.6 SEAL client
The following SEAL clients as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5] are supported:
\- Location management client;
\- Group management client;
\- Configuration management client;
\- Identity management client;
\- Key management client; and
\- Network resource management client.
### 5.3.7 SEAL server
The following SEAL servers as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5] are supported:
\- Location management server;
\- Group management server;
\- Configuration management server;
\- Identity management server;
\- Key management server; and
\- Network resource management server.
## 5.4 Reference points description
### 5.4.1 General
The reference points for the UAS application layer are described in the
following clauses.
### 5.4.2 U1-AE
The interactions related to UAS application layer support functions between
UAE client and UAE server are supported by U1-AE reference point.
### 5.4.3 U1-APP
The interactions related to UAS applications between UAS application specific
client and UAS application specific server are supported by U1-APP reference
point. The details of U1-APP reference point is out of scope of the present
document.
### 5.4.4 U2-AE
The interactions related to UAS application layer support functions between
the UAE clients are supported by U2-AE reference point.
### 5.4.5 U2-APP
The interactions related to UAS applications between UAS application specific
clients are supported by U2-APP reference point. The details of U2-APP
reference point is out of scope of the present document.
### 5.4.6 Us
The interactions related to UAS application layer support functions between
the UAE server and the UAS application specific server are supported by Us
reference point. If CAPIF is supported, this reference point is an instance of
CAPIF‑2/2e reference point as specified in 3GPP TS 23.222 [3].
### 5.4.7 Uc
The interactions related to UAS application layer support functions between
the UAE client and the UAS application specific client are supported by Uc
reference point.
### 5.4.8 SEAL-C
The following SEAL-C reference points specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5] are
supported:
\- LM-C reference point for location management;
\- GM-C reference point for group management;
\- CM-C reference point for configuration management;
\- IM-C reference point for identity management;
\- KM-C reference point for key management; and
\- NRM-C reference point for network resource management.
### 5.4.9 SEAL-S
The following SEAL-S reference points specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5] are
supported:
\- LM-S reference point for location management;
\- GM-S reference point for group management;
\- CM-S reference point for configuration management;
\- IM-S reference point for identity management;
\- KM-S reference point for key management; and
\- NRM-S reference point for network resource management.
### 5.4.10 SEAL-PC5
The following SEAL-PC5 reference points specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5] are
supported:
\- LM-PC5 reference point for location management;
\- GM-PC5 reference point for group management;
\- CM-PC5 reference point for configuration management;
\- IM-PC5 reference point for identity management;
\- KM-PC5 reference point for key management; and
\- NRM-PC5 reference point for network resource management.
### 5.4.11 SEAL-UU
The following SEAL-UU reference points specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5] are
supported:
\- LM-UU reference point for location management;
\- GM-UU reference point for group management;
\- CM-UU reference point for configuration management;
\- IM-UU reference point for identity management;
\- KM-UU reference point for key management; and
\- NRM-UU reference point for network resource management.
### 5.4.12 UAE-E
The interactions related to UAS application support functions between the UAE
servers in a distributed deployment are supported by UAE-E reference point. If
CAPIF is supported, this reference point is an instance of CAPIF-2/2e
reference point as specified in 3GPP TS 23.222 [3].
## 5.5 External reference points
### 5.5.1 General
The reference points between the UAS application layer and the 3GPP network
systems (EPS, 5GS) are described in the following clauses.
### 5.5.2 Rx
The reference point Rx supports the interactions between the UAS application
server and the PCRF and is specified in 3GPP TS 29.214 [11]. The functions for
Rx reference point are supported by the network resource management server of
the SEAL.
### 5.5.3 MB2-C
The reference point MB2-C supports the control plane interactions between the
UAS application server and the BM-SC and is specified in 3GPP TS 29.468 [12].
The functions for MB2-C reference point are supported by the network resource
management server of the SEAL.
### 5.5.4 MB2-U
The reference point MB2-U supports the user plane interactions between the UAS
application server and the BM-SC and is specified in 3GPP TS 29.468 [12]. The
functions for MB2-U reference point are supported by the UAE server.
### 5.5.5 xMB-C
The reference point xMB-C supports the control plane interactions between the
UAS application server and the BM-SC and is specified in 3GPP TS 26.346 [9].
The functions for xMB reference point are supported by the network resource
management server of the SEAL.
### 5.5.6 xMB-U
The reference point xMB-U supports the user plane interactions between the UAS
application server and the BM-SC and is specified in 3GPP TS 26.346 [9]. The
functions for xMB-U reference point are supported by the UAE server.
### 5.5.7 T8
The reference point T8 supports the interactions between the UAS application
server and the SCEF and is specified in 3GPP TS 23.682 [8]. The functions of
T8 interface are supported by UAE server and the functions related to location
management of T8 are supported by the location management server.
### 5.5.8 N5
The reference point N5 supports the interactions between the UAS application
server and the PCF and is specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [6]. The functions of N5
interface are supported by UAE server.
### 5.5.9 N33/Nnef
The reference point N33 supports the interactions between the UAS application
server and the NEF and is specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [6]. Nnef is the service
based interface exposed by the NEF as per the N33 reference point. The
functions of Nnef interface are supported by UAE server and the functions
related to location management of Nnef are supported by the location
management server.
# 6 Identities
## 6.1 General
This clause describes the identities associated with the entities in the UAS
application layer and used in this specification.
## 6.2 UAV Identifier (UAV ID)
The UAV identifier is used to uniquely identify a UAV. The UAV ID is in the
form of a 3GPP UE ID (e.g. GPSI, External Identifier) as specified in 3GPP TS
23.501 [6] or CAA level UAV ID as assigned by civil aviation authorities (e.g.
FAA) via USS/UTM.
## 6.3 UAS Identifier (UAS ID)
The UAS identifier is used to uniquely identify a pair of UAV and UAV-C
collectively known as UAS. The UAS ID is in the form of a Group ID as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5] or a collection of individual identifiers of
the entities in the UAS (e.g. CAA level UAV IDs, 3GPP UE IDs).
## 6.4 UAS Application Specific Server Identifier (UASS ID)
The UAS application specific server identifier is used to uniquely identify
the UAS application specific server. The UASS ID is in the form of URI.
## 6.5 UAE Server Identifier (UAE Server ID)
The UAE server identifier is used to uniquely identify the UAE server. The UAE
Server ID is in the form of URI.
# 7 Procedures and information flows
## 7.1 Usage of SEAL services
### 7.1.1 General
The UAE capabilities (UAE client and UAE server) utilize the SEAL services.
Also the UAS application specific server(s) may directly utilize the SEAL
services. All SEAL services specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5] are available to
the UAS application layer (i.e. the UAE layer and the UAS application specific
layer).
In this clause, the details of the information flows, procedures and APIs
utilized by the UAS application layer are described.
### 7.1.2 Group management service
#### 7.1.2.1 General
The UAE capabilities (UAE client and UAE server) utilize the group management
service procedures (e.g. creation, join, leave) of SEAL based on the group
configuration information (e.g. group join policy, group leader) provided by
the UAS application specific layer. The decisions and corresponding triggers
(e.g. group creation, join, leave) for group management are responsibility of
the UAS application specific layer. The group management service of SEAL
provides support for creating group for UAS for supporting UAS applications
and C2 communications.
The UAS application specific server(s) may directly utilize the group
management service procedures of SEAL.
#### 7.1.2.2 Information flows
The following information flows of group management service of SEAL as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5] are applicable for the UAS applications:
\- Group creation request specified in clause 10.3.2.1;
\- Group creation response specified in clause 10.3.2.2;
\- Group creation notification specified in clause 10.3.2.3;
\- Group information query request specified in clause 10.3.2.4;
\- Group information query response specified in clause 10.3.2.5;
\- Group membership update request specified in clause 10.3.2.6;
\- Group membership update response specified in clause 10.3.2.7;
\- Group membership notification specified in clause 10.3.2.8;
\- Group deletion request specified in clause 10.3.2.9;
\- Group deletion response specified in clause 10.3.2.10;
\- Group deletion notification specified in clause 10.3.2.11;
\- Group information request specified in clause 10.3.2.12;
\- Group information response specified in clause 10.3.2.13;
\- Group information subscribe request specified in clause 10.3.2.14;
\- Group information subscribe response specified in clause 10.3.2.15;
\- Group information notify request specified in clause 10.3.2.16;
\- Group information notify response specified in clause 10.3.2.17;
\- Store group configuration request specified in clause 10.3.2.18;
\- Store group configuration response specified in clause 10.3.2.19;
\- Get group configuration request specified in clause 10.3.2.20;
\- Get group configuration response specified in clause 10.3.2.21;
\- Subscribe group configuration request specified in clause 10.3.2.22;
\- Subscribe group configuration response specified in clause 10.3.2.23;
\- Notify group configuration request specified in clause 10.3.2.24;
\- Notify group configuration response specified in clause 10.3.2.25;
\- Configure VAL group request specified in clause 10.3.2.26;
\- Configure VAL group response specified in clause 10.3.2.27;
\- Group announcement specified in clause 10.3.2.28;
\- Group registration request specified in clause 10.3.2.29;
\- Group registration response specified in clause 10.3.2.30;
\- Identity list notification specified in clause 10.3.2.31;
\- Group de-registration request specified in clause 10.3.2.32;
\- Group de-registration response specified in clause 10.3.2.33;
The usage of the above information flows are clarified as below:
\- The identity is the UE ID or CAA Level ID;
\- The identity list or identities list is the list of UE IDs or CAA Level
IDs; and
\- The VAL server is the UAE server or the UAS application specific server.
#### 7.1.2.3 Procedures
The following procedures of group management service of SEAL as specified in
3GPP TS 23.434 [5] are applicable for the UAS applications:
\- Group creation specified in clause 10.3.3;
\- Group information query specified in clause 10.3.4;
\- Group membership specified in clause 10.3.5;
\- Group configuration management specified in clause 10.3.6;
\- Group announcement and join specified in clause 10.3.8;
\- Group member leave specified in clause 10.3.9;
#### 7.1.2.4 APIs
The following APIs of group management service of SEAL as specified in 3GPP TS
23.434 [5] are applicable for the UAS applications:
\- SS_GroupManagement API specified in clause 10.4.2;
### 7.1.3 Location management service
#### 7.1.3.1 General
The UAE capabilities (UAE client and UAE server) utilize location management
(e.g. network location of UEs) service procedures of SEAL to support UAS
applications.
The UAS application specific server(s) may directly utilize the location
management service procedures of SEAL.
#### 7.1.3.2 Information flows
The following information flows of location management service of SEAL as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5] are applicable for the UAS applications:
\- Location reporting configuration request specified in clause 9.3.2.0;
\- Location reporting configuration response specified in clause 9.3.2.1;
\- Location information report specified in clause 9.3.2.2;
\- Location information request specified in clause 9.3.2.3;
\- Location reporting trigger specified in clause 9.3.2.4;
\- Location information subscription request specified in clause 9.3.2.5;
\- Location information subscription response specified in clause 9.3.2.6;
\- Location information notification specified in clause 9.3.2.7;
\- Location reporting configuration cancel specified in clause 9.3.2.8;
\- Get UE(s) information request specified in clause 9.3.2.9;
\- Get UE(s) information response specified in clause 9.3.2.10;
\- Monitor location subscription request specified in clause 9.3.2.11;
\- Monitor location subscription response specified in clause 9.3.2.12;
\- Notify location monitoring event specified in clause 9.3.2.13;
The usage of the above information flows are clarified as below:
\- The identity is the UE ID or CAA Level ID;
\- The identity list or identities list is the list of UE IDs or CAA Level
IDs; and
\- The VAL server is the UAE server or the UAS application specific server.
#### 7.1.3.3 Procedures
The following procedures of location management service of SEAL as specified
in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5] are applicable for the UAS applications:
\- Event-triggered location reporting procedure specified in clause 9.3.3;
\- On-demand location reporting procedure specified in clause 9.3.4;
\- Location reporting event triggers configuration cancel specified in clause
9.3.6;
\- Location information subscription procedure specified in clause 9.3.7;
\- Event-trigger location information notification procedure specified in
clause 9.3.8;
\- On-demand usage of location information procedure specified in clause
9.3.9;
\- Obtaining UE(s) information at a location specified in clause 9.3.10;
\- Monitoring Location Deviation specified in clause 9.3.11
#### 7.1.3.4 APIs
The following APIs of location management service of SEAL as specified in 3GPP
TS 23.434 [5] are applicable for the UAS applications:
\- SS_LocationReporting API as specified in clause 9.4.2;
\- SS_LocationInfoEvent API as specified in clause 9.4.3;
\- SS_LocationInfoRetrieval API as specified in clause 9.4.4;
\- SS_LocationAreaInfoRetrieval API as specified in clause 9.4.5;
\- SS_LocationMonitoring API as specified in clause 9.4.6;
### 7.1.4 Network resource management service
#### 7.1.4.1 General
The UAE capabilities (UAE client and UAE server) and UAS application specific
servers utilize network resource management service procedures of SEAL to
support UAS applications and C2 communications.
The UAS application specific server(s) may directly utilize the network
management service procedures of SEAL.
#### 7.1.4.2 Information flows
The following information flows of network resource management service of SEAL
as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5] are applicable for the UAS applications:
\- Network resource adaptation request specified in clause 14.3.2.1;
\- Network resource adaptation response specified in clause 14.3.2.2;
\- Resource request specified in clause 14.3.2.6;
\- Resource response specified in clause 14.3.2.7;
\- Resource modification request specified in clause 14.3.2.8;
\- Resource modification response specified in clause 14.3.2.9;
\- Monitoring Events Subscription Request specified in clause 14.3.2.17;
\- Monitoring Events Subscription Response specified in clause 14.3.2.18;
\- Monitoring Events Notification message specified in clause 14.3.2.19;
The usage of the information flows are clarified as below:
\- The identity is the 3GPP UE ID or CAA Level UAV ID;
\- The identity list or identities list is the list of 3GPP UE IDs or CAA
Level UAV IDs; and
\- The VAL server is the UAE server or the UAS application specific server.
#### 7.1.4.3 Procedures
The following procedures of network resource management service of SEAL
specified 3GPP TS 23.434 [5] are applicable for the UAS applications and C2
communications:
\- Request for unicast resources at VAL service communication establishment
specified in clause 14.3.3.2.1;
\- Request for modification of unicast resources specified in clause
14.3.3.2.2;
\- Network resource adaptation specified in clause 14.3.3.3.1;
\- QoS/resource management capability initiation in network assisted UE-to-UE
communications procedure specified in clause 14.3.5.2;
\- Coordinated QoS provisioning operation in network assisted UE-to-UE
communications procedure specified in clause 14.3.5.3;
\- Monitoring Events Subscription procedure specified in clause 14.3.6.2;
\- Monitoring Events Notification procedure specified in clause 14.3.6.3;
#### 7.1.4.4 APIs
The following APIs of network resource management service of SEAL specified
3GPP TS 23.434 [5] are applicable for the UAS applications and C2
communications:
\- SS_NetworkResourceAdaptation API specified in clause 14.4.2;
\- SS_EventsMonitoring API specified in clause 14.4.3;
## 7.1a UAE layer registration
### 7.1a.1 General
The UAE capabilities provide support for registering UAV/UAV-C at the UAE
server. The UAE server uses the registration information to distribute UAE
layer messages or UAS application specific layer messages to the appropriate
UAS UEs.
### 7.1a.2 Procedures
#### 7.1a.2.1 UAS UE registration
##### 7.1a.2.1.1 General
This clause describes the procedure for UAS UE (UAV/UAV-C) to register with
the UAE server.
##### 7.1a.2.1.2 Procedure
Pre-conditions:
\- The UAE client has discovered the UAE server and is aware of the address of
the UAE server (e.g. FDQN).
NOTE: How the UAE client is provisioned with the UAE server information is
outside the scope of the current document.
\- The UAV/UAV-C has already been assigned with the UAV ID.
Figure 7.1a.2.1.1-1: Procedure for registering the UAE client at the UAE
server
1\. The UAE client sends a registration request to the UAE server.
2\. The UAE server performs authentication and authorization check (e.g. based
on pre-provisioned security information or by interacting with UAS application
specific server (e.g. USS/UTM)).
3\. The UAE server sends a registration response to the UAE client indicating
success or failure of the registration.
#### 7.1a.2.2 UAS UE deregistration
##### 7.1a.2.2.1 General
This clause describes the procedures for UAS UE (UAV/UAV-C) to deregister at
the UAE server.
##### 7.1a.2.2.2 Procedure
Pre-condition:
\- The UAE client has already registered with the UAE server as described in
subclause 7.1a.2.1.
Figure 7.1a.2.2.2-1: Procedure for deregistering the UAE client at the UAE
server
1\. The UAE client sends a deregistration request to the UAE server.
2\. The UAE server sends a deregistration response to the UAE client.
#### 7.1a.2.3 UAS UE registration update
##### 7.1a.2.3.1 General
This clause describes the procedures for UAS UE (UAV/UAV-C) to update its
registration with the UAE server.
##### 7.1a.2.3.2 Procedure
Pre-conditions:
\- The UAE client has already registered with the UAE server as described in
subclause 7.1a.2.1.
Figure 7.1a.2.3.1-1: Procedure for registration update by the UAE client at
the UAE server
1\. The UAE client sends a registration update request to the UAE server.
2\. The UAE server sends an acknowledgement to the UAE client.
### 7.1a.3 Information flows
#### 7.1a.3.1 Registration request
Table 7.1a.3.1-1 describes the information flow for a UAE client to register
with the UAE server.
Table 7.1a.3.1-1: Registration request
* * *
Information element Status Description UAV ID M The identifier of the
UAV/UAV-C (e.g. 3GPP UE ID or CAA level UAV ID) which initiates the
registration request UAS UE information O UAS UE information like IP address,
Multi-USS capability, DAA assist capability, etc. Proposed registration
lifetime (NOTE) O Proposed registration lifetime. NOTE: If Proposed
registration lifetime IE is not included, then the registration lifetime is
valid until explicit deregistration is performed.
* * *
#### 7.1a.3.2 Registration response
Table 7.1a.3.2-1 describes the information flow for UAE server to respond for
registration request from the UAE client.
Table 7.1a.3.2-1: Registration response
* * *
Information element Status Description Result M Result from the UAE server in
response to registration request indicating success or failure Registration
lifetime O The registration lifetime provided by UAE server if registration is
successful
* * *
#### 7.1a.3.3 Deregistration request
Table 7.1a.3.3-1 describes the information flow for a UAE client to deregister
at the UAE server.
Table 7.1a.3.3-1: Deregistration request
* * *
Information element Status Description UAV ID M The identifier of the
UAV/UAV-C (e.g. 3GPP UE ID or CAA level UAV ID) which initiates the
deregistration request
* * *
#### 7.1a.3.4 Deregistration response
Table 7.1a.3.4-1 describes the information flow for UAE server to respond for
deregistration request from the UAE client.
Table 7.1a.3.4-1: Deregistration response
* * *
Information element Status Description Result M Result from the UAE server in
response to the deregistration request
* * *
#### 7.1a.3.5 Registration update request
Table 7.1a.3.5-1 describes the information flow for a UAE client to update
registration with the UAE server.
Table 7.1a.3.5-1: Registration update request
* * *
Information element Status Description UAV ID M The identifier of the
UAV/UAV-C (e.g. 3GPP UE ID or CAA level UAV ID) which initiates the
registration request UAS UE information M UAS UE information like IP address,
Multi-USS capability, DAA assist capability, etc. Proposed registration
lifetime O Proposed registration lifetime.
* * *
#### 7.1a.3.6 Registration update response
Table 7.1a.3.6-1 describes the information flow for UAE server to respond for
registration update request from the UAE client.
Table 7.1a.3.6-1: Registration update response
* * *
Information element Status Description Result M Result from the UAE server in
response to registration update request indicating success or failure
Registration lifetime O The registration lifetime provided by UAE server if
registration update is successful
* * *
## 7.2 Communications between UAVs within a geographical area
### 7.2.1 General
This clause describes the procedure for communications between UAVs within a
geographical area. The geographical area is from the perspective of the UAV
initiating the communication with other UAVs.
The following transport mechanisms can be supported for communications between
UAVs within a geographical area:
a. Using unicast Uu.
NOTE: The mechanisms for communications between UAVs using multicast/broadcast
Uu and ProSe are out of scope of the current release of the present document.
### 7.2.2 Procedures
#### 7.2.2.1 Communications between UAVs within a geographical area using
unicast Uu
Figure 7.2.2.1-1 illustrates the procedure for communications between UAVs
within a geographical area using unicast Uu.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The UAE clients of UAVs have successfully registered and connected to the
UAE server.
2\. The SEAL\'s LM server information is configured at the UAE server.
Figure 7.2.2.1-1: Communications between UAVs within a geographical area using
unicast Uu
1\. The UAE client of UAV sends a UAV application message to the UAE server in
order to communicate the payload information of the UAV application message to
other UAVs in a range of the location corresponding to the UAV.
2\. The UAE server obtains the other UAV(s) information in the location of the
UAV from the LMS as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
3\. Upon receiving the list of other UAV(s), the UAE server sends the payload
in UAV application message to each of the UAV via unicast channel.
4\. Upon completing step 3, the UAE server may send an acknowledgement to the
UAE client.
### 7.2.3 Information flows
#### 7.2.3.1 UAV application message
Table 7.2.3.1-1 describes the information flow for the UAV application message
from UAE client to UAE server and from UAE server to UAE client.
Table 7.2.3.1-1: UAV application message
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | UAV ID | M | The identifier of the UAV | | | | (e.g. 3GPP UE ID or CAA | | | | level UAV ID) which | | | | initiates the UAV | | | | application message. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Application defined | M | Description of the range | | proximity range information | | information over which the | | (NOTE 2) | | UAV application message is | | | | to be sent. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Application Payload | M | Application payload that is | | (NOTE 1) | | to be delivered to the | | | | other UAVs | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | NOTE 1: This IE is provided | | | | by the UAS application | | | | specific client and its | | | | details are out of scope of | | | | 3GPP. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: This IE is not | | | | included when the UAV | | | | application message is sent | | | | from UAE server to UAE | | | | client. | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
## 7.3 UAV and UAV-C Pairing and C2 QoS Provisioning using Group ID
### 7.3.1 General
This clause describes the procedure for UAV and UAV-C grouping C2 QoS
provisioning using subsequent group ID. It also provides the procedure for UAV
replacement resulting in group ID update.
### 7.3.2 Procedures
#### 7.3.2.1 Procedure for group creation for one pair of UAV and UAV-C
Figure 7.3.2.1-1 illustrates a high-level procedure for group creation.
Pre-conditions:
\- Both UAV-C and UAV have successfully registered and connected to the UAE
server.
\- A CAA-level UAV ID is already assigned to the UAV-C and UAV.
Figure 7.3.2.1-1: Procedure for group creation for one pair of UAV and UAV-C
1\. The UAE server recognizes a unique pair of UAV and UAV-C either by 3GPP UE
ID or CAA-level UAV ID.
NOTE: The mechanisms for how the UAE server recognizes a pair of UAV-C and UAV
is out of scope of the present document.
2\. The UAE server sends a group creation request to the SEAL GM server, if
there is no pre-assigned group ID, by using the GM-S reference link as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5] using the procedure defined in clause 10.3.
The SEAL GM server creates one group ID for one pair of UAV and UAV-C as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
3\. The UAE server uses the returned group ID for UAS for QoS management.
#### 7.3.2.2 Procedure for group-based approach for C2 QoS provisioning
Figure 7.3.2.2-1 illustrates a high-level workflow of group-based C2 QoS
provisioning.
Pre-conditions:
\- Both UAV and UAV-C have registered to 3GPP 5G network respectively. C2
communication is established.
\- The procedure specified in clause 7.3.2.1 is performed and the group ID for
the UAS group is available at the UAE server.
Figure 7.3.2.2-1: Procedure of group-based approach for C2 QoS provisioning.
1\. The UAE server monitors the QoS for the UAS group (which includes a UAV
and UAV-C) by SEAL NRM as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
2\. In cases where the network condition for C2 communication does not satisfy
the pre-defined QoS requirement, the UAE server may choose to send QoS
adaptation request to the SEAL NRM server using the NRM-S reference point as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5]. The QoS adaptation request needs to be sent
per group ID for a pair of UAV and UAV-C created in the procedure specified in
clause 7.3.2.1. The subsequent network resource adaptation procedure is
triggered by the UAE server as specified in clause 14.3.3.3.1 of 3GPP TS
23.434 [5].
3\. The UAE client and UAE server established communication based on new QoS
requirements as specified in clause 14.3.3.2.1.2 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
4\. UAS application layer adapts the updated QoS assignment.
NOTE: The mechanisms for how the UAS application layer is adapting newly
assigned QoS is out of scope of the present document.
7.3.2.3 Procedure for group update
Figure 7.3.2.3-1 illustrates the group membership update when UAV-2 is used to
replace UAV-1.
Pre-conditions:
\- The UAV-C, UAV-1, and UAV-2 are all previously successfully subscribed with
3GPP Core Network and UAS application specific server (e.g. USS/UTM) and have
received a 3GPP UE ID (e.g. GPSI) and a CAA-level UAV ID.
\- The UAV-1 and UAV-C have been grouped by a group ID by SEAL GMS as
specified in clause 7.3.2.1.
{width="5.075in" height="1.2916666666666667in"}
Figure 7.3.2.3-1: Procedure for group update
1\. The UAE server recognizes a new pair of UAV-2 and UAV-C by the new CAA-
level UAV ID.
NOTE: The mechanisms for how the UAE server recognizes a new pair of UAV-C and
UAV is out of scope of the present document.
2\. The UAE server sends a group membership update request to the SEAL GM
server using the procedure specified in clause 10.3.2.6 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
The SEAL GM server sends a group membership update response as specified in
clause 10.3.2.7 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
### 7.3.3 Information flows
The usage of information flows between UAE server and SEAL\'s Group management
Server is specified in clause 7.1.2.2.
The usage of information flows between UAE server and SEAL\'s Network Resource
Management Server is specified in clause 7.1.4.2.
## 7.4 C2 Communication mode selection and switching
### 7.4.1 General
This feature introduces the UAS application enablement services for supporting
the selection and re-selection of C2 communication modes. In particular, the
UAE layer provides support for the following operations:
\- Support the switch between the Network-Assisted C2 communication and Direct
C2 communication (e.g. when the direct link becomes feasible/available, or
when a UAV is moving towards BVLOS or has poor direct link conditions, etc.)
as described in clause 7.4.2.4.
\- Support the switch between the Network-Assisted/Direct C2 communication and
UTM-Navigated C2 communication (e.g. for air traffic control, the UAV is
approaching a No Drone Zone, and detected potential security threats, etc.) as
described in clause 7.4.2.5.
\- Support the selection of the communication mode between: utilizing more
than one C2 communication links, and among applicable C2 communication links,
selecting a mode as the primary one as described in clause 7.4.2.3.
\- Activation for the support of the above operations in the UAE Server in the
UAE client is performed using procedure described respectively in clause
7.4.2.1 and clause 7.4.2.2.
\- Support for C2 direct mode availability reporting to provide the awareness
to the UAE server to switch to direct C2 communication if it is possible, as
described in clause 7.4.2.1 and 7.4.2.4.
Below, the different procedures for C2 communication mode selection and
switching are described using UAE Client assisted and UAE Server controlled
based mechanisms. Such functionality is supported by means of policies
delivered to the UAV/UAV-C via the UAE layer and assisting the dynamic
switching of C2 modes.
### 7.4.2 Procedures
#### 7.4.2.1 Management of C2 mode selection / switching capability
This procedure manages the C2 mode selection/switching capability at the UAE
server, based on an application request from UAS application specific server
(which can be the USS/UTM) to manage the C2 operation modes (direct, network-
assisted) of C2 communication for a UAS.
Figure 7.4.2.1-1 illustrates the procedure where the UAE server receives an
application request for managing the operation mode for C2 communications for
a UAS.
Pre-condition:
\- The UAV has received its UAS ID from the UAS application specific server.
Figure 7.4.2.1-1: C2 operation mode management request / response
1\. The UAS application specific server sends to the UAE Server a C2 operation
mode management request for managing the operation modes for the C2
communication for a UAS (consisting a UAV and a UAV-C) and to subscribe for
UAE notifications. If ProSE/PC5 is supported for direct C2 communications,
such request may also include a C2 direct mode availability reporting
requirement including the ProSe configuration information for direct C2
operation, the UAV and UAV-C IDs and addresses, and the time and area for
which the monitoring of availability will apply.
2\. The UAE Server sends to the UAS application specific server a C2 operation
mode management response with a positive or negative acknowledgement of the
request, based on capability of UAE server to undertake this task.
3\. UAE server executes C2 communication modes configuration according to
clause 7.4.2.2.
4\. After execution of C2 communication modes configuration, the UAE server
notifies the UAS application specific server with a C2 operation mode
management complete.
#### 7.4.2.2 C2 communication modes configuration
This procedure enables the configuration of the UAE Client, based on an
application request from UAS application specific server (which can be the
USS/UTM) to manage the C2 operation modes (direct, network-assisted) of C2
communication for a UAS.
Figure 7.4.2.2-1 illustrates the C2 communication modes configuration
procedure.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The UAS UEs are connected to 5GS and authenticated and authorized by UAS
application specific server as specified in clause 5.2 of 3GPP TS 23.256 [4].
2\. UAE Server has established a UAE session with the respective UAE Clients
as the UAE clients are successfully registered to the UAE server.
3\. UAE Server has performed the C2 mode switching/selection capability
initiation as in clause 7.4.2.1.
Figure 7.4.2.2-1: C2 communication modes configuration
1\. The UAE Server sends a C2 communication modes configuration request
including the UAS identifier, allowed C2 communication modes (e.g., direct,
network assisted, UTM-Navigated), primary and optionally secondary C2
communication mode and policy for switching. In the case of removal of C2
communication mode configuration parameters from the UAV or UAV-C, then the
request shall only include the UAS identifier.
2\. The UAE Client stores or removes the C2 communication mode configuration
parameters as per the information received in step 1.
3\. The UAE Client sends a C2 communication modes configuration response to
the UAE Server.
#### 7.4.2.3 C2 communication mode selection by UAE Client
This procedure provides a mechanism for the UAE client to select a primary C2
communication mode and optional secondary C2 communication mode based on C2
communication mode configuration enabled as described in clause 7.4.2.2.
Figure 7.4.2.3-1 illustrates the C2 communication mode selection and redundant
C2 link negotiation.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The UAE Clients are configured with a C2 communication modes configuration
as described in clause 7.4.2.2.
2\. UAE Server has activated the dynamic C2 mode switching capability, as
described in clause 7.4.2.1.
Figure 7.4.2.3-1: C2 communication mode selection
1\. UAE Clients (UAV and UAV-C) select a primary and secondary C2
communication mode based on C2 communication mode configuration.
2\. The UAE Client sends a C2 communication mode notification to the UAE
Server indicating the selected primary and secondary C2 communication modes
and associated C2 link information which may include UAE Client and peer
address information (e.g., IP/MAC address).
3\. The UAE Server stores the C2 communication modes and links information.
4a-4b. The UAE Server forwards the C2 communication mode and links information
to the UAS application specific server and receives a C2 communication mode
notification acknowledgement from the UAS application specific server.
5\. The UAE Server may forward the C2 communication mode notification
acknowledgement to the UAE Client.
6\. The UAV and UAV-C start C2 communication using the selected C2
communication mode.
NOTE: The details of step 6 are outside the scope of the present
specification.
#### 7.4.2.4 UAE-layer assisted dynamic C2 mode switching
This procedure provides a mechanism for supporting dynamic switching between
direct and network assisted C2 communications, which may be required while the
UAV flight is ongoing, due to possible change of network conditions, expected
location/mobility of the UAV, unpredictable events etc.
Figure 7.4.2.4-1 illustrates the procedure where the UAE server supports the
dynamic C2 mode switching for network-assisted C2 communications.
Pre-conditions:
1\. UAE Server has activated the dynamic C2 mode switching capability, as
described in clause 7.4.2.1
2\. UAE Server has subscribed for using SEAL/LMS services and has configured
the location event reporting, based on 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
3\. UAE Client has selected a C2 communication mode as described in clause
7.4.2.3, and UAV and UAV-C are engaged in C2 communication.
Figure 7.4.2.4-1: UAE-assisted dynamic C2 mode switching
1\. The UAE Client detects a condition for switching C2 communication mode
based on local conditions (e.g. using the C2 communication mode switching
policy) or based on a command from the UAS application specific server (as
described in clause 7.4.2.5). A C2-related trigger event report is sent from
the UAE Client of the UAV and/or the UAV-C to the UAE Server, denoting a
command from the UAS application specific server or an application QoS
attribute change (experienced or expected) e.g. based on the experienced
packet delay or packet loss for the Uu or direct link (e.g. packet loss
greater than a pre-defined threshold).
> If a C2 direct mode availability reporting requirement exists based on
> clause 7.4.2.1 step 1, the detection of UAV/UAV-C(s) can be based on the PC5
> discovery due to the configurations received due procedures in clause
> 7.4.2.1 and clause 7.4.2.2. In this case, the C2-related trigger event
> report message can include also a C2 direct mode availability report
> including PC5 related configuration information.
2\. Additionally, the UAE Server receives a location report for the UAV/UAV-C
by the SEAL\'s LM server. The report can be either periodical or event-based
(e.g. UAV moving towards an area covered by a different cell or different
operator), as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5] SEAL\'s LM server procedures
(UAE Server acting as a VAL server).
3\. The UAE Server determines the switching of the C2 mode from direct to
network assisted or vice versa or to UTM-Navigated**. If the switching is**
from direct to network assisted or vice versa, this is done by calculating the
relative actual or expected UAV-to-UAV-C location, as well as other factors
like QoS fulfilment/unfulfilment, augmented location, mobility/speed,
direction, topography, weather conditions.
4\. The UAE Server sends a C2 mode switching confirmation request to the UAS
application specific server, which includes the UAS identifier as well as the
cause for switching and the switching option (direct to network-assisted or
network-assisted to direct or to UTM-Navigated). The UAE Server sends this
request to obtain confirmation from the UAS application specific server before
proceeding with switching to UTM-Navigated. This step is optional in the case
of switching from direct to network assisted or vice versa.
5\. Conditional on Step 3, the UAE Server receives from the UAS application
specific server a C2 mode switching confirmation response indicating a
positive or negative result for the requested change.
6\. The UAE Server sends to the involved UAE Clients, a C2 operation mode
switching message which provides an instruction to the UAV and UAV-C to switch
to network-assisted mode or to direct mode or to UTM-Navigated. The UAV and
UAV-C start C2 communication using the indicated C2 communication mode (e.g.,
direct, network assisted, UTM-Navigated).
7\. If an emergency switch of the C2 communication is deemed necessary by the
UAE Client (e.g. sudden loss of the active C2 link), the UAE Client changes
the link prior to the steps 1-6, which are skipped. The UAE Clients send a C2
operation mode switching performed message to the UAE Server to confirm the
switching of the C2 communication mode.
#### 7.4.2.5 UAS application specific server triggered C2 communication mode
switching
This procedure provides a mechanism for supporting dynamic switching between
direct or network assisted C2 communications to UTM-Navigated, initiated by
the UAS application specific server (which can be the USS/UTM) after detecting
a C2 switching condition which may be required while the UAV enters a no-fly
zone. For example, the UAS application specific server needs to take over the
control of UAV and fly it to safety (see 3GPP TS 22.125 [2] clause 4.2).
Figure 7.4.2.5-1 illustrates a UAS application specific server triggered C2
communication mode switching.
Pre-conditions:
1\. UAE Server has activated the dynamic C2 mode switching capability, as
described in clause 7.4.2.1.
2\. UAE Client has selected a primary C2 communication mode as described in
clause 7.4.2.3, and UAV and UAV-C are engaged in (e.g., direct or network
assisted) C2 communication.
Figure 7.4.2.5-1: UAS application specific server triggered C2 communication
mode switching
1\. The UAS application specific client is instructed directly by a command
from the UAS application specific server to switch to UTM-Navigated mode.
NOTE: This procedure between the UAS application specific server and the UAS
application specific client is out of scope of the present document.
2\. The UAE Client initiates the procedure described in clause 7.4.2.4.
### 7.4.3 Information flows
#### 7.4.3.1 C2 operation mode management request
Table 7.4.3.1-1 describes the information flow C2 operation mode management
request from the UAS application specific server to the UAE server.
Table 7.4.3.1-1: C2 operation mode management request
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | UASS ID | M | Identity of the UAS | | | | application specific server | | | | which requests the C2 | | | | operation mode management. | | | | This ID can be the USS/UTM | | | | identifier, when the UAS | | | | application specific server | | | | is the USS/UTM. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | UAS ID | M | The identification of the | | | | UAS for which the C2 QoS | | | | management request applies. | | | | This could be in form of | | | | identifier for the UAS, e.g | | | | group ID; or collection of | | | | individual identifiers for | | | | the UAV and UAV-C, e.g. CAA | | | | level UAV ID, GPSI | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | C2 operation mode | O | The C2 operation mode | | management container (see | | management container | | NOTE 2) | | consists of the | | | | requirements and policy for | | | | C2 operation mode | | | | management | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | > C2 operation mode | M | Identification of the type | | management requirement | | of the C2 mode switching to | | | | be supported by the UAE | | | | server. This can be either | | | | from direct to | | | | network-assisted C2, or | | | | from network-assisted to | | | | direct C2 or to | | | | UTM-Navigated. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | > Allowed C2 communication | M | direct, network assisted, | | modes | | UTM-Navigated | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | > Primary C2 communication | M | Primary C2 communication | | mode | | mode (direct, network | | | | assisted) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | > Secondary C2 | O | Secondary C2 communication | | communication mode | | mode (direct, network | | | | assisted) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | > Policy of C2 switching | M | Parameters for C2 switching | | | | | | | | - QoS thresholds on active | | | | link | | | | | | | | > \- QoS thresholds on | | | | > target link | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | > C2 service area | O | The area where the C2 | | | | operation mode management | | | | request applies. This can | | | | be geographical area, or | | | | topological area in which | | | | the capability is active. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | > C2 direct mode | O | A requirement for C2 direct | | availability reporting | | mode reporting. | | requirement | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | >> ProSe application | O | The ProSe codes used for | | codes | | direct C2 communications. | | | | The ProSe codes are used | | | | for the ProSe Direct | | | | Discovery as specified in | | | | [4]. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | >>Time of validity | O | The time for which the C2 | | | | direct mode | | | | availability/feasibility | | | | checking applies. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | >>Reporting configuration | O | The configuration of the | | | | reporting and | | | | periodicity/frequency of | | | | reporting required. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | NOTE 1: Void | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: If C2 operation | | | | mode management container | | | | IE is not included, it | | | | indicates removal of the C2 | | | | operation mode management | | | | related information. | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
#### 7.4.3.2 C2 operation mode management response
Table 7.4.3.2-1 describes the information flow C2 operation mode management
response from the UAE server to the UAS application specific server.
Table 7.4.3.2-1: C2 operation mode management response
* * *
Information element Status Description Result M The positive or negative
result of the C2 operation mode management request.
* * *
#### 7.4.3.3 C2 operation mode management complete
Table 7.4.3.3-1 describes the information flow C2 operation mode management
complete from the UAE server to the UAS application specific server.
Table 7.4.3.3-1: C2 operation mode management complete
* * *
Information element Status Description Result M The positive or negative
result of the C2 communication mode configuration.
* * *
#### 7.4.3.4 C2-related trigger event report
Table 7.4.3.4-1 describes the information flow C2-related trigger event report
from the UAE client (of the UAV or the UAV-C) to the UAE server.
Table 7.4.3.4-1: C2-related trigger event report
* * *
Information element Status Description UAE client ID M The identifier of the
UAE client which indicates the QoS downgrade UAS UE ID(s) O The identifier of
the UE ID(s) for which the PC5 connectivity is feasible/available..
Application QoS-related event M The report including the expected or actual
application QoS / QoE parameters which were change (i.e. latency, throughput,
reliability, jitter). The event configuration (thresholds, policies) is
provided to the UAE client as described in clause 7.3.2.2. PC5 availability
indication O The PC5 availability indication for the direct C2 mode. > PC5
capabilities O The PC5/ProSe capabilities and configuration information of the
involved UAS UEs. > PC5 QoS/access information O The PC5 QoS (list of PQIs)
and access related information (e.g. DRX cycles, resource pools). > Time of
validity O The time for which the direct mode is available.
* * *
#### 7.4.3.5 C2 mode switching confirmation request
Table 7.4.3.5-1 describes the information flow C2 mode switching confirmation
request from the UAE server to the UAS application specific server.
Table 7.4.3.5-1: C2 mode switching confirmation request
* * *
Information element Status Description UAE server ID M The identifier of the
UAE server which requests the C2 mode switching confirmation from USS/UTM UAS
ID M The identification of the UAS. This could be in form of identifier for
the UAS, e.g. group ID; or collection of individual identifiers for the UAV
and UAV-C, e.g. CAA level UAV ID, GPSI. C2 operation mode switching type M The
type of the C2 mode switching to be applied (direct to network-assisted, or
network-assisted to direct, or to UTM-Navigated). Switching cause O Cause
information for initiating the switching (e.g. poor radio link quality)
* * *
#### 7.4.3.6 C2 mode switching confirmation response
Table 7.4.3.6-1 describes the information flow C2 mode switching confirmation
response from the UAS application specific server (USS/UTM) to the UAE server.
Table 7.4.3.6-1: C2 mode switching confirmation response
* * *
Information element Status Description Result M The positive or negative
result of the C2 mode switching confirmation response.
* * *
#### 7.4.3.7 C2 operation mode switching
Table 7.4.3.7-1 describes the information flow C2 operation mode switching
from the UAE server to the UAE client(s) of the affected UAS.
Table 7.4.3.7-1: C2 operation mode switching
* * *
Information element Status Description UAE server ID M The identifier of the
UAE server which instructs the UAS to apply the C2 mode switching. C2
operation mode switching requirement M The type of the C2 mode switching to be
applied (direct to network-assisted, or network-assisted to direct). Time
Validity O Time validity for the C2 switching requirement Geographical Area O
Area for which the C2 switching applies
* * *
#### 7.4.3.8 C2 communication modes configuration request
Table 7.4.3.8-1 describes the information flow C2 communication modes
configuration request from the UAE server to the UAE client.
Table 7.4.3.8-1: C2 communication modes configuration request
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | UAS ID | M | The identification of the | | | | UAS for which the C2 QoS | | | | management request applies. | | | | This could be in form of | | | | identifier for the UAS, | | | | e.g. group ID; or | | | | collection of individual | | | | identifiers for the UAV and | | | | UAV-C, e.g. CAA level UAV | | | | ID, GPSI. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | C2 operation mode | O | The C2 operation mode | | management configuration | | management configuration | | (see NOTE 2) | | information to be | | | | configured at the UAS | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | > C2 operation mode | M | Identification of the type | | management requirement | | of the C2 mode switching to | | | | be supported by the UAE | | | | server. This can be either | | | | from direct to | | | | network-assisted C2, or | | | | from network-assisted to | | | | direct C2 or to | | | | UTM-Navigated. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | > Allowed C2 communication | M | direct, network assisted, | | modes | | UTM-Navigated | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | > Primary C2 communication | M | Primary C2 communication | | mode | | mode (direct, network | | | | assisted) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | > Secondary C2 | O | Secondary C2 communication | | communication mode | | mode (direct, network | | | | assisted) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | > Policy of C2 switching | M | Parameters for C2 switching | | | | | | | | - QoS thresholds on active | | | | link | | | | | | | | > \- QoS thresholds on | | | | > target link | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | NOTE 1: Void | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: If C2 operation | | | | mode management | | | | configuration IE is not | | | | included, it indicates | | | | removal of the C2 operation | | | | mode management | | | | configuration at the UAS | | | | ID. | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
#### 7.4.3.9 C2 communication modes configuration response
Table 7.4.3.9-1 describes the information flow C2 communication modes
configuration response from the UAE client to the UAE server.
Table 7.4.3.9-1: C2 communication modes configuration response
* * *
Information element Status Description Result M The positive or negative
result of reception and storing or removal of the communication mode
configuration parameters
* * *
#### 7.4.3.10 C2 communication mode notification
Table 7.4.3.10-1 describes the information flow C2 communication mode
notification from the UAE client to the UAE server and from the UAE server to
the UAS application specific server.
Table 7.4.3.10-1: C2 communication mode notification
* * *
Information element Status Description UAS ID M The identification of the UAS.
This could be in form of identifier for the UAS, e.g. group ID; or collection
of individual identifiers for the UAV and UAV-C, e.g. CAA level UAV ID, GPSI.
Selected primary C2 communication mode M Selected primary C2 communication
mode (direct, network assisted) Selected secondary C2 communication mode O
Selected secondary C2 communication mode (direct, network assisted)
* * *
#### 7.4.3.11 C2 communication mode notification acknowledgement
Table 7.4.3.11-1 describes the information flow C2 communication mode
notification acknowledgement from the UAE server to the UAE client and from
the UAS application specific server to the UAE server.
Table 7.4.3.11-1: C2 communication mode notification acknowledgement
* * *
Information element Status Description Acknowledgement M Acknowledgement of
selected C2 communication mode(s)
* * *
#### 7.4.3.12 C2 operation mode switching performed
Table 7.4.3.12-1 describes the information flow C2 operation mode switching
performed from the UAE client to the UAE server.
Table 7.4.3.12-1: C2 operation mode switching performed
* * *
Information element Status Description Result M The result of the C2 mode
switching
* * *
## 7.5 Real-Time UAV Connection Status Monitoring and Location reporting
### 7.5.1 General
This clause enables the UAE server to provide a real-time view of UAV network
status and location reporting based on current network connection status, in
particular with the supporting of following use cases:
\- Support of real-time monitor the 3GPP network connection with UAVs.
\- Support of reporting of loss of communication with UAVs.
\- Support of location reporting such as last known location after loss of
communication.
### 7.5.2 Procedures
#### 7.5.2.1 Procedure for real-time UAV network connection status monitoring
and location update
Figure 7.5.2.1-1 illustrates the real-time network monitoring and location
update support for UAV operations.
Pre-conditions:
\- UAE server has subscribed to the monitoring event API for connection
monitoring by the NRM server for both UAV and/or UAV client as specified in
clause 14.3.6.2.2 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
\- UAE server has subscribed for the location information and location
deviation monitoring events of UAV from LM server as per the clause 9.3.7 and
clause 9.3.11.2 specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
\- Subscription for real-time UAV status information is performed as specified
in clause 7.5.2.2.
Figure 7.5.2.1-1: Real-time UAV network connection status monitoring and
location update
1\. The UAE server receives location report and location deviation monitoring
event notifications from LM server as specified in clause 9.3.8 and clause
9.3.11.2 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [5]. UAE server shall record the current location
reporting timestamp as specified in clause 9.3.2.2 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
2\. The UAE server receives monitoring events notification as specified in
clause 14.3.6.3.2 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [5]. If events are regarding loss of UE
reachability such as when received \"Loss_of_connectivity_notification\", the
UAE server shall record such event with current timestamp.
3\. NRM server sends notification when UE re-connected status is detected as
specified in clause 14.3.6.3.2 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
4\. The UAE server shall record such event with current timestamp, plus with
last known location information and timestamp as specified in clause 9.3.2.7
of 3GPP TS 23.434 [5] and trigger location update as specified in clause 9.3.4
of 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
#### 7.5.2.2 Subscription for real-time UAV status information
Figure 7.5.2.2-1 describes the procedure for subscription for real-time UAV
status information.
Pre-condition:
\- UAS application specific server has been provisioned with UAE server
information.
Figure 7.5.2.2-1: Subscription for real-time UAV status information
1\. The UAE application specific server sends subscribe real-time UAV status
information request to the UAE server. The request includes one or more UAV
ID(s).
2\. The UAE server stores the subscription information.
3\. The UAE server sends subscription response to the UAS application specific
server.
#### 7.5.2.3 Notification of real-time UAV status information
Pre-conditions:
\- UAS application specific server has performed subscription as per procedure
in clause 7.5.2.2 with UAE server and the procedure for processing real-time
UAV status as specified in clause 7.5.2.1 has performed.
Figure 7.5.2.3-1: Notification for real-time UAV status information
1\. When real-time UAV status information is available at the UAE as per the
subscription then, the UAE server sends notification of one or more real-time
UAV(s) status information to the UAS application specific server.
#### 7.5.2.4 Unsubscription for real-time UAV status information
Figure 7.5.2.4-1 describes the procedure for unsubscription for real-time UAV
status information.
Pre-condition:
\- UAS application specific server has performed the subscription procedure as
specified in clause 7.5.2.2.
Figure 7.5.2.4-1: Unsubscription for real-time UAV status information
1\. The UAE application specific server sends unsubscribe real-time UAV status
information request to the UAE server. The request includes the subscription
ID.
2\. The UAE server cancels the subscription information.
3\. The UAE server sends unsubscription response to the UAS application
specific server.
### 7.5.3 Information flows
#### 7.5.3.1 Information flows between UAE server and SEAL servers
The usage of information flows between UAE server and SEAL\'s Location
Management Server is specified in clause 7.1.3.2.
The usage of information flows between UAE server and SEAL\'s Network Resource
Management Server is specified in clause 7.1.4.2.
#### 7.5.3.2 Subscribe real-time UAV status information request
Table 7.5.3.2-1 describes the information flow for a UAS application specific
server to subscribe to real-time UAV status information at the UAE server.
Table 7.5.3.2-1: Subscribe real-time UAV status information request
* * *
Information element Status Description UASS ID M The identifier of the UAS
application specific server which initiated this request. UAV ID (s) M The
identifier of one or more UAV(s) (e.g. 3GPP UE ID or CAA level UAV ID) for
which the real-time UAV status is requested. Area of Interest M Geographic
area location information where the UASS server wishes to monitor the UAS\'s
location adherence. Notification Target URI M Target URI where the UAS
application specific server wishes to receive the notifications about real-
time UAV status information.
* * *
#### 7.5.3.3 Subscribe real-time UAV status information response
Table 7.5.3.3-1 describes the information flow for UAE server to respond for
real-time UAV status subscription request from the UAS application specific
server.
Table 7.5.3.3-1: Subscribe real-time UAV status information response
* * *
Information element Status Description Result M Result from the UAE server in
response to subscription request indicating success or failure Subscription ID
(NOTE) O Identifier of a successful subscription. NOTE: This IE is included
when the Result indicates success
* * *
#### 7.5.3.4 Notify real-time UAV status information
Table 7.5.3.4-1 describes the information flow for a UAS application specific
server to receive notification about real-time UAV status information from the
UAE server.
Table 7.5.3.4-1: Notify real-time UAV status information
* * *
Information element Status Description Subscription ID M Identifier of the
subscription for this notification. Real-time UAV(s) status information M One
or more real-time UAV(s) status information >UAV ID M The identifier of the
UAV (e.g. 3GPP UE ID or CAA level UAV ID) for which the real-time UAV status
information is notified. >UAV status information M The UAV status information
includes the UAV network connection status information, location information
and timestamp.
* * *
#### 7.5.3.5 Unsubscribe real-time UAV status information request
Table 7.5.3.5-1 describes the information flow for a UAS application specific
server to unsubscribe to real-time UAV status information at the UAE server.
Table 7.5.3.5-1: Unsubscribe real-time UAV status information request
* * *
Information element Status Description Subscription ID M Identifier of the
subscription for this notification.
* * *
#### 7.5.3.6 Unsubscribe real-time UAV status information response
Table 7.5.3.6-1 describes the information flow for UAE server to respond for
real-time UAV status unsubscription request from the UAS application specific
server.
Table 7.5.3.6-1: Unsubscribe real-time UAV status information response
* * *
Information element Status Description Result M Result from the UAE server in
response to unsubscription request indicating success or failure
* * *
## 7.6 Change of USS during flight
### 7.6.1 General
This feature introduces the UAS application enablement services for supporting
change of UAS application specific server. In particular, the UAE layer
provides support for the following operations:
\- Support of the registration of the UAE clients multi-USS capability to the
UAE server as described in clause 7.1a.
\- Support the distribution of the for multi-USS policies from the UAS
application specific server to the UAE server and the UAE client, as described
in clause 7.6.2.1 and clause 7.6.2.2.
\- Support the change of UAS application specific server, as described in
clause 7.6.2.3.
\- Support the UAE server triggered change of USS, as described in clause
7.6.2.5.
NOTE: The functions of the USS are out of scope of the present specification.
### 7.6.2 Procedures
#### 7.6.2.1 Management of multi-USS configuration
This procedure manages the multi-USS policies at the UAE server, based on an
application request from UAS application specific server to support the change
of USS for a UAS.
Figure 7.6.2.1-1 illustrates the procedure where the UAE server receives an
application request for managing the multi-USS policies for a UAS from the UAS
application specific server.
Pre-condition:
\- The UAV has received its UAS ID from the UAS application specific server.
\- The UAV has performed the UAS UE registration procedure.
Figure 7.6.2.1-1: Multi-USS management procedure
1\. The UAS application specific server sends to the UAE server a Multi-USS
management request. The request includes the UAV (UAE client) identifier and
the Multi-USS policies. A Multi-USS policy contains: allowed target USSes
(identified by e.g. FQDN), serving USS information, and additional information
for change of USS (USS change constraints parameter geo location/area
threshold for change of USS by UAV). The UAE server stores the Multi-USS
policies corresponding to the UAV ID. In case of removal of a Multi-USS policy
for a USS from the UAE server, the request shall include the UAV identifier
and a USS identifier (e.g. FQDN) for the USS that will be removed.
2\. The UAE server sends to the UAS application specific server a Multi-USS
management response with a positive or negative acknowledgement of the
request.
3\. UAE server executes the multi-USS configuration according to clause
7.6.2.2.
4\. After execution of USS management configuration, the UAE server notifies
the UAS application specific server with a Multi-USS management complete based
on the configured capabilities of the UAE client.
#### 7.6.2.2 Multi-USS configuration
This procedure enables the configuration of the UAE client, based on a request
from UAS application specific server to configure multi-USS policies to the
UAE client.
Figure 7.6.2.2-1 illustrates the Multi-USS configuration procedure.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The UAS UEs are connected to 5GS and authenticated and authorized by UAS
application specific server as specified in clause 5.2 of 3GPP TS 23.256 [4].
2\. UAE server has established a UAE session with the respective UAE clients
as the UAE clients are successfully registered to the UAE server.
3\. UAE server has performed the Multi-USS management procedure according to
clause 7.6.2.1.
Figure 7.6.2.2-1: Multi-USS configuration
1\. The UAE server sends a Multi-USS configuration request to the UAE client.
The UAE client receives a Multi-USS configuration request that includes the
Multi-USS policies from the UAE server. In case of removal of one or more
Multi-USS policies for a USS from the UAE client, then the request shall only
include a USS identifier (e.g. FQDN) for the USSes that will be removed.
2\. The UAE client stores or removes the Multi-USS policies as per the
information received in step 1.
3\. The UAE client sends a Multi-USS configuration response to the UAE server.
#### 7.6.2.3 UAE layer assisted change of USS
This procedure provides a mechanism for supporting dynamic change of USS which
may be performed while the UAV flight is ongoing, due to expected
location/mobility of the UAV, emergency events, etc.
Figure 7.6.2.3-1 illustrates the procedure where the UAE server supports the
change of USS.
Pre-conditions:
1\. UAE client has indicated support of change of USS by the Multi-USS
capability.
2\. UAS application specific server has provided Multi-USS policies to the UAE
client and the UAE server.
Figure 7.6.2.3-1: UAE layer assisted change of USS
1\. The UAE server receives a USS change request from a serving USS (UAS
application specific server #1), indicating that a target USS (UAS application
specific server #2) an take over the communication. The request includes the
UAV (UAE client) identification information, target USS information and USS
change authorization information (e.g. authorization token). Optionally,
updated Multi-USS policies for one or more USSes can be included. The UAE
server verifies that the request is authorized (e.g., Multi-USS capability is
enabled, new USS part of the allowed USS information).
2\. If required, the UAE server translates this to a UP path change and
interacts with NEF as AF for influence UP path (switching to target DNAI). In
particular UAE server (acting as AF) checks whether it can serve the target
DNAI corresponding to the target USS based on the mapping of USS to DNAI which
was performed in step 2 of clause 7.6.2.5. Interaction with 5GC is performed
according to functionality for application function influence on traffic
routing, see 3GPP TS 23.502 [13] clause 4.3.6.3.
3\. The UAE server forwards the USS change request to the UAE client including
target USS information and updated Multi-USS policies.
4\. Perform change of USS.
> The UAE client initiates communication with the target USS based on the USS
> change request and the Multi-USS policies.
5\. The UAE client sends a USS change response indicating to what USS the
change of USS has been performed.
6\. The UAE server sends a USS change response to the UAS application specific
server indicating that a change of USS has been performed.
#### 7.6.2.4 UAE client assisted change of USS
This procedure enables the UAE client to provide a dynamic change of USS while
the UAV flight is ongoing, due to an emergency change of USS deemed necessary
by the UAE client. The UAE client initiates the change of USS on behalf of the
USS based on previously provided Multi-USS policy.
Figure 7.6.2.4-1 illustrates the procedure where the UAE server supports the
change of USS.
Pre-conditions:
1\. UAE client has indicated support of change of USS by the Multi-USS
capability.
2\. UAS application specific server has provided Multi-USS policies to the UAE
client and the UAE server.
Figure 7.6.2.4-1: UAE client assisted change of USS
1\. An emergency change of USS is deemed necessary by the UAE Client, and the
UAE client initiates the change of USS on behalf of the USS based on
previously provided Multi-USS policy.
2\. Perform change of USS. The UAE client initiates communication with the
target USS (UAS application specific server #2) based on the previously
provided Multi-USS policies.
3\. The UAE client sends a USS change notification indicating to what USS the
change of USS has been performed. The identity of the target USS (UAS
application specific server #2) is included. The USS change notification is
only sent if the UAE client has a connection to the UAE server.
4\. The UAE server sends a USS change notification to the UAS application
specific server #1 indicating that a change of USS has been performed.
#### 7.6.2.5 UAE server triggered change of USS
In multi-USS scenarios, each USS can be physically located in different
clouds, and it is also possible that a USS is deployed at the edge.
Figure 7.6.2.5-1 illustrates the procedure where the UAE server supports
change of USS for a multi-USS/LUN scenario, where the interaction with the
communication network for supporting a UAS session requires the interaction to
more than one USS e.g., due to UAV mobility to different geographical area
covered by different edge clouds.
Pre-conditions:
\- The UAV has performed the UAS UE registration procedure.
\- UAE client and UAE server have indicated multi-USS support.
Figure 7.6.2.5-1: UAE server triggered change of USS
1\. The UAE server has performed the USS management procedure of clause
7.6.3.1; however, at the multi-USS management request, UAE server also
receives from UAS application specific server the USS service areas
(geographical) for all allowed USSs, and optionally the USS to DNAI mapping
and a USS list per given Local USS network (LUN).
2\. The UAE server maps each USS with different topological areas based on the
USS to DNAI mapping (based on step 1), for all USSs which are allowed for a
target area where the UAV is allowed to fly (e.g. within the LUN). Then it
also maps and stores all pairs of \ per LUN or for the areas of
interest for the UAV (e.g., based on the allowable routes).
3\. The UAE server tracks the location of the UAV, by requesting on-demand
location monitoring from SEAL LMS (acting as VAL server in procedure of clause
9.3.4 or clause 9.3.5 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [5]) or via subscribing for monitoring
the UAV location deviation (specified in clause 9.3.11 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [5]).
4\. The UAE server detects an expected UAV location change to an area covered
by a different USS (based on SEAL LMS monitoring subscription/request as in
step 3), it generates a trigger event indicating that the UE moves to an area
where the USS is overlapping with other USS, or another overlapping USS within
LUN area is not available.
> If it is an overlap, the UAE server checks whether the performance of
> serving USS is expected to get impacted (e.g., by requesting DN performance
> analytics for the target area) or if the serving USS is not supported at
> target area, checks what is the best available USS and whether this can
> provide the same services. The criteria for the best available USS may
> relate to the location of the UAV, but it can also be the priorities of the
> USS (based on the policies received) at the target area and the capabilities
> (services) provided by the target USS.
5\. The UAE server sends to the UAS application specific server a USS change
trigger notify indicating the recommendation for a USS change for the UAS and
provides the target USS ID. Alternatively, the trigger message indicates a UAV
mobility event, based on steps 3/4.
6\. The UAS change procedure follows as specified in 7.6.2.3.
### 7.6.3 Information flows
#### 7.6.3.1 Multi-USS management request
Table 7.6.3.1-1 describes the information flow Multi-USS management request
from the UAS application specific server to the UAE server.
Table 7.6.3.1-1: Multi-USS management request
* * *
Information element Status Description UASS ID M Identity of the UAS
application specific server which requests the Multi-USS management. This ID
can be the USS identifier, when the UAS application specific server is the
USS. UAS ID M The identification of the UAS for which the Multi-USS management
request applies. This could be in form of identifier for the UAS, e.g group
ID; or collection of individual identifiers for the UAV and UAV-C, e.g. CAA
level UAV ID, GPSI UAS registration area O The registration area where the UAV
is allowed to fly UAS allowed route O The UAV allowed route within the
registration area. Multi-USS policy management container (see NOTE) O The
Multi-USS policy management container consists of the requirements and policy
for Multi-USS management. > Serving USS information M Information about the
serving USS identifier > Additional information for change of USS M
Information about the serving USS, related with the switch to a particular
target USS > Area for change of USS M The area where the Multi-USS management
request applies. This can be geographical area, or topological area in which
the capability is active. > Allowed USS(s) information O The information for
the allowed USSs for the UAS. >> USS ID M The identity of the allowed USS from
the list of USSs for the target UAS (identified e.g. by FQDN) >> USS service
area M The geographical area per USS >> USS service requirements M The
capabilities and key performance requirements per each USS service. >> List of
USS DNAI(s) M DNAI(s) associated with the target USS. >> LUN ID M Identity of
the LUN where the report applies NOTE: If Multi-USS policy management
container is not included for a USS, it indicates removal of the Multi-USS
policy management related information for this USS.
* * *
#### 7.6.3.2 Multi-USS management response
Table 7.6.3.2-1 describes the information flow Multi-USS management response
from the UAE server to the UAS application specific server.
Table 7.6.3.2-1: Multi-USS management response
* * *
Information element Status Description Result M The positive or negative
result of the Multi-USS management request.
* * *
#### 7.6.3.3 Multi-USS management complete
Table 7.6.3.3-1 describes the information flow Multi-USS management complete
from the UAE server to the UAS application specific server.
Table 7.6.3.3-1: Multi-USS management complete
* * *
Information element Status Description Result M The positive or negative
result of the Multi-USS configuration.
* * *
#### 7.6.3.4 Multi-USS configuration request
Table 7.6.3.4-1 describes the information flow Multi-USS configuration request
from the UAE server to the UAE client.
Table 7.6.3.4-1: Multi-USS configuration request
* * *
Information element Status Description UAS ID M The identification of the UAS
for which the Multi-USS configuration request applies. This could be in form
of identifier for the UAS, e.g. group ID; or collection of individual
identifiers for the UAV and UAV-C, e.g. CAA level UAV ID, GPSI. Multi-USS
policy management configuration (see NOTE) O The Multi-USS policy management
configuration information to be configured at the UAS. > Allowed USS M
Identifier of a USS that can be the target of a switch (identified e.g. by
FQDN) > Serving USS information M Information about the serving USS identifier
> Additional information for change of USS M Information about the serving
USS, related with the switch to a particular target USS > Area for change of
USS M The area where the Multi-USS management request applies. This can be
geographical area, or topological area in which the capability is active.
NOTE: If Multi-USS policy management configuration is not included for a USS,
it indicates removal of the Multi-USS policy management configuration for this
USS.
* * *
#### 7.6.3.5 Multi-USS configuration response
Table 7.6.3.5-1 describes the information flow Multi-USS configuration
response from the UAE client to the UAE server.
Table 7.6.3.5-1: Multi-USS configuration response
* * *
Information element Status Description Result M The positive or negative
result of the Multi-USS configuration
* * *
#### 7.6.3.6 USS change request
Table 7.6.3.6-1 describes the information flow USS change request from the UAS
application specific server to the UAE server and from the UAE server to the
UAE client.
Table 7.6.3.6-1: USS change request
* * *
Information element Status Description UASS ID M Identity of the UAS
application specific server which requests the change of USS. This ID can be
the USS identifier, when the UAS application specific server is the USS. UAS
ID M The identification of the UAS for which the USS change request applies.
This could be in form of identifier for the UAS, e.g. group ID; or collection
of individual identifiers for the UAV and UAV-C, e.g. CAA level UAV ID, GPSI.
USS change authorization information M An authorization token to verify the
request. Target USS M Identification of the USS that is the target of a switch
(identified e.g. by FQDN) Target USS info M Information for the target USS >
USS endpoint M Endpoint information (e.g. URI, FQDN, IP address) used to
communicate with the USS. > USS capabilities O The capabilities supported by
the target USS > LUN ID O Identity of the LUN where the serving/target USS
belongs >List of USS DNAI(s) O DNAI(s) associated with the target USS.
* * *
#### 7.6.3.7 USS change response
Table 7.6.3.7-1 describes the information flow USS change response from the
UAE client to the UAE server and from the UAE server to the UAS application
specific server.
Table 7.6.3.7-1: USS change response
* * *
Information element Status Description Result M The positive or negative
result of the USS change request.
* * *
#### 7.6.3.8 USS change notification
Table 7.6.3.8-1 describes the information flow USS change notification from
the UAE client to the UAE server and from the UAE server to the UAS
application specific server.
Table 7.6.3.8-1: USS change notification
* * *
Information element Status Description Reason M Reason for change of /USS.
Target USS information M Identifier of the new USS that the UAV has connected
to (identified e.g. by FQDN).
* * *
#### 7.6.3.9 USS change trigger notify
Table 7.6.3.9-1 describes the information flow USS change trigger notify from
the UAE server to the UAS application specific server.
Table 7.6.3.9-1: USS change trigger notify
* * *
Information element Status Description UAS ID M Identity of the UAS for which
the trigger applies Serving USS ID M Identity of the serving USS Target USS ID
O Identity of the target USS based on the recommendation LUN ID O Identity of
the LUN where the serving USS belongs UAV mobility event O The mobility event
e.g., expected UE mobility to a service area outside the current USS serving
area
* * *
## 7.7 UAE layer support for DAA services and applications
### 7.7.1 General
This feature enables the UAS application enablement services for assisting the
UAS application with DAA handling. In particular, the UAE layer provides
support for the following operations:
\- Support of the registration of the UAE clients DAA assistance capability to
the UAE server as described in clause 7.1a.
\- Support the distribution of the DAA application policy from the UAS
application specific server to the UAE server and the UAE client, as described
in clause 7.7.2.1.
\- Support the UAS application with DAA, as described in clause 7.7.2.2.
NOTE: The Detect and Avoid operations are out of scope of the present
specification.
### 7.7.2 Procedures
#### 7.7.2.1 Configuration of DAA policies to the UAE layer and the UAS client
##### 7.7.2.1.1 Management of DAA support configuration
Figure 7.7.2.1.1-1 illustrates the DAA support management procedure where the
UAE server receives an application request for managing the DAA application
policy from the UAS application specific server.
Pre-condition:
1\. The UAV has received its UAS ID from the UAS application specific server.
2\. The UAV has performed the UAS UE registration procedure.
Figure 7.7.2.1.1-1: DAA support management procedure
1\. The UAS application specific server sends to the UAE server a DAA support
management request. The request includes the UAV (UAE client) identifier and
the DAA application policy.
2\. The UAE server shall send to the UAS application specific server a DAA
support management response with a positive or negative acknowledgement of the
request.
3\. The UAE server shall timestamp and store the DAA application policy and
execute the DAA configuration according to clause 7.7.2.1.2.
4\. After execution of DAA configuration, the UAE server shall send a DAA
support management complete to the UAS application specific server.
##### 7.7.2.1.2 DAA support configuration procedure
Figure 7.7.2.1.2-1 illustrates the DAA support configuration procedure. This
procedure enables the configuration of the UAE client, based on a request from
UAS application specific server to configure the DAA application policy to the
UAE client.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The UAS UEs are connected to 5GS and authenticated and authorized by UAS
application specific server as specified in clause 5.2 of 3GPP TS 23.256 [4].
2\. UAE server has established a UAE session with the respective UAE clients
as the UAE clients are successfully registered to the UAE server.
3\. UAE server has performed the DAA support management procedure according to
clause 7.7.2.1.1.
Figure 7.7.2.1.2-1: DAA support configuration procedure
1\. The UAE server shall send a DAA support configuration request to the UAE
client. The UAE client receives a DAA support configuration request from the
UAE server that includes the DAA application policy.
2\. The UAE client shall store or remove the DAA application policy as per the
information received in step 1. The DAA application policy is forwarded to the
UAS application.
3\. The UAE client shall send a DAA support configuration response to the UAE
server.
#### 7.7.2.2 UAE layer support for DAA applications
##### 7.7.2.2.1 DAA support involving UAVs with U2X support
Figure 7.7.2.2.1-1 illustrates the procedure with DAA support involving UAVs
with U2X support.
Pre-conditions:
1\. UAE server has provided the DAA application policy to the UAE client.
Figure 7.7.2.2.1-1: DAA support involving UAVs with U2X support
1\. The UAE layer has, e.g. based on information provided by the U2X layer,
detected UAVs in proximity, see 3GPP TS 23.256 [4] clause 5.6. The UAV informs
its own UAS application specific server about the detected collision.
2\. The UAE client shall send a DAA client event information to the UAE server
with information about one or more UAVs in proximity as detected in step 1.
3\. The UAE server shall record the DAA client event information with current
timestamp. UAE server shall request UAE client location information from the
SEAL location services. The UAE server shall record the received location
information with current timestamp. The UAE server shall send the DAA client
event information to the UAS application specific server.
4\. The UAS application specific server provides a DAA client event
information acknowledge to the UAE server. The UAS application specific server
may include more information in the acknowledgement (e.g., other UAVs detected
information by UAS application layer mechanisms).
5\. The UAE server shall send a DAA client event information acknowledge to
the UAE client, and the UAE client shall provide the application layer (i.e.
UAS client) with the consolidated information from the UAS application
specific server.
##### 7.7.2.2.2 DAA support involving UAVs without U2X support
Figure 7.7.2.2.2-1 illustrates the procedure with DAA support involving UAVs
without U2X support.
Pre-conditions:
1\. UAS application specific server has provided DAA configuration parameters
to the UAE client.
2\. The UAV does not support U2X layer.
Figure 7.7.2.2.2-1: DAA support involving UAVs without U2X support
1\. The UAS application specific server has received information about UAVs
(e.g. via UAS application layer mechanism or as in step 3 of clause 7.7.2.2.1.
The UAS application specific server determines the information of the UAVs
which may be in the proximity of the UAV.
2\. The UAS application specific server sends a DAA server event information
to the UAE server which includes information of other UAVs in the proximity of
the UAV. The UAE server shall verify that the request is authorized before
sending the DAA server event information to the UAE client.
3\. The UAE server performs coordination with Real-Time UAV connection status
monitoring and location reporting is performed by the UAE server, see clause
7.5 and 3GPP TS 23.434 [5], clause 9.3. The UAE server shall send a DAA server
event information to the UAE client comprising the UAVs information and
location of each UAV in proximity of the UAV.
4\. The UAE client shall send to the UAE server a DAA server event information
acknowledge.
5\. The UAE server shall send a DAA server event information acknowledge to
the UAS application specific server.
### 7.7.3 Information flows
#### 7.7.3.1 DAA support management request
Table 7.7.3.1-1 describes the information flow DAA support management request
from the UAS application specific server to the UAE server.
Table 7.7.3.1-1: DAA support management request
* * *
Information element Status Description UASS ID M Identity of the UAS
application specific server which requests the DAA management. This ID can be
the USS identifier, when the UAS application specific server is the USS. UAS
ID M The identification of the UAS for which the DAA support management
request applies. This could be in form of identifier for the UAS, e.g group
ID; or collection of individual identifiers for the UAV and UAV-C, e.g. CAA
level UAV ID, GPSI The DAA application policy O The DAA application policy.
* * *
#### 7.7.3.2 DAA support management response
Table 7.7.3.2-1 describes the information flow DAA support management response
from the UAE server to the UAS application specific server.
Table 7.7.3.2-1: DAA support management response
* * *
Information element Status Description Result M The positive or negative
result of the DAA support management request.
* * *
#### 7.7.3.3 DAA support management complete
Table 7.7.3.3-1 describes the information flow DAA support management complete
from the UAE server to the UAS application specific server.
Table 7.7.3.3-1: DAA support management complete
* * *
Information element Status Description Result M The positive or negative
result of provision of the DAA application policy to the UAS application.
* * *
#### 7.7.3.4 DAA support configuration request
Table 7.7.3.4-1 describes the information flow DAA support configuration
request from the UAE server to the UAE client.
Table 7.7.3.4-1: DAA support configuration request
* * *
Information element Status Description UAS ID M The identification of the UAS
for which the DAA management request applies. This could be in form of
identifier for the UAS, e.g group ID; or collection of individual identifiers
for the UAV and UAV-C, e.g. CAA level UAV ID, GPSI The DAA application policy
O The DAA application policy.
* * *
#### 7.7.3.5 DAA support configuration response
Table 7.7.3.5-1 describes the information flow DAA support configuration
response from the UAE client to the UAE server.
Table 7.7.3.5-1: DAA support configuration response
* * *
Information element Status Description Result M The positive or negative
result of provision of the DAA application policy to the UAS application.
* * *
#### 7.7.3.6 DAA client event information
Table 7.7.3.6-1 describes the information flow DAA client event information
from the UAE client to the UAE server and from the UAE server to the UAS
application specific server.
Table 7.7.3.6-1: DAA client event information
* * *
Information element Status Description UAS ID M The identification of the UAS
for which the DAA client support information applies. This could be in form of
identifier for the UAS, e.g group ID; or collection of individual identifiers
for the UAV and UAV-C, e.g. CAA level UAV ID, GPSI. UAE layer detected
information M List of UASes where e.g. U2X layer has detected possible flight
path conflict. > UAS identity M The identification of e.g. a U2X-UAS where U2X
layer has detected possible flight path conflict. > Location information M
Location of e.g. a U2X-UAS where U2X layer has detected possible flight path
conflict.
* * *
#### 7.7.3.7 DAA client event information acknowledge
Table 7.7.3.7-1 describes the information flow DAA client event information
acknowledge from the UAS application specific server to the UAE server and
from the UAE server to the UAE client.
Table 7.7.3.7-1: DAA client event information acknowledge
* * *
Information element Status Description UAS ID M The identification of the UAS
for which the DAA client support information acknowledge applies. This could
be in form of identifier for the UAS, e.g group ID; or collection of
individual identifiers for the UAV and UAV-C, e.g. CAA level UAV ID, GPSI UAE
layer detected information M List of UASes where the UAS application specific
server has confirmed possible flight path conflict. > UAS identity M The
identification of a UAS where UAS application specific server has confirmed
possible flight path conflict. > Location information M Location of a UAS
where UAS application specific server has confirmed possible flight path
conflict.
* * *
#### 7.7.3.8 DAA server event information
Table 7.7.3.8-1 describes the information flow DAA server event information
from the UAS application specific server to the UAE server and from the UAE
server to the UAE client.
Table 7.7.3.8-1: DAA server event information
* * *
Information element Status Description UAS ID M The identification of the UAS
for which the DAA server support information applies. This could be in form of
identifier for the UAS, e.g group ID; or collection of individual identifiers
for the UAV and UAV-C, e.g. CAA level UAV ID, GPSI UAE layer detected
information M List of UASes where the UAS application specific server has
confirmed possible flight path conflict. > UAS identity M The identification
of an UAS where UAS application specific server has confirmed possible flight
path conflict. > Location information M Location of an UAS where UAS
application specific server has confirmed possible flight path conflict.
* * *
#### 7.7.3.9 DAA server event information acknowledge
Table 7.7.3.9-1 describes the information flow DAA server event information
acknowledge from the UAE client to the UAE server and from the UAE server to
the UAS application specific server.
Table 7.7.3.9-1: DAA server event information acknowledge
* * *
Information element Status Description Reason M Acknowledgement of DAA server
event information.
* * *
## 7.8 Tracking dynamic UAVs in an application defined area relative to a host
UAV
### 7.8.1 General
The UAE server can be responsible for tracking a host UAV's dynamic
information (i.e., information of other dynamic UAVs in an application defined
area relative to a host UAV). As per a proximity range set by the application
layer (e.g. UAS Application Specific Server), the UAE layer supports providing
the dynamic information (i.e. other UAVs' location information) to the UAS
Application Specific Server (UTM/USS) and/or to the host UAV. This feature can
be utilized by UAS applications (e.g. DAA, Dynamic maps).
This feature utilizes the following procedures:
\- UAS Application Specific Server or the host UAV subscription for host UAV's
dynamic information with UAE server.
\- UAE server tracking host UAV's UE location with support from SEAL's
location management server.
\- UAE server management of dynamic UE location based group.
\- UAE server obtaining dynamic information from the UAVs in application
defined proximity range of the host UAV.
\- UAE server notification of host UAV's dynamic information to the UAS
Application Specific Server and/or to the host UAV.
NOTE: The details of the usage of dynamic information of host UAV by UAS
Application Specific Server or by the host UAV is out of scope of this
specification.
### 7.8.2 Procedures
#### 7.8.2.1 Subscription for host UAV dynamic information
Figure 7.8.2.1-1 describes the procedure for subscription for host UAV's
dynamic information.
Pre-condition:
\- UAS Application Specific Server has registered with UAE server 1 which is
responsible for the host UAV.
\- The UAV ID and application defined proximity range information are
configured on the host UAV.
Figure 7.8.2.1-1: Subscription for host UAV dynamic information
1\. The UAS Application Specific Server or UAE client of host UAV sends a
subscribe host UAV dynamic information request to the UAE server 1. The
request includes the UAV ID of the host UAV, application defined proximity
range information.
2\. The UAE server 1 stores the subscription information.
3\. The UAE server 1 sends subscription response to the UAS Application
Specific Server.
4\. The UAE server 1 obtains and initiates tracking the host UAV location from
the location management server 1 as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
#### 7.8.2.2 Management of dynamic UE location based group
Figure 7.8.2.2-1 describes the procedure for management of dynamic UE location
based group.
Pre-condition:
\- UAE server 1 has received an updated location of the host UAV as per
procedure specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
\- UAE server 1 is configured with UAE server 2..N information of other UAS
operator and their supported region of operation.
Figure 7.8.2.2-1: Management of dynamic UE location group
1\. Dynamic UE location based group creation or update is triggered (e.g.
notified of the UE location of host UAV) via the step 4 in clause 7.8.2.1 for
the UAV ID of the host UAV.
2\. UAE server 1 uses its associated LMS 1 to obtain the dynamic UE list and
the corresponding location information in the proximity area of the host UAV
by providing the application defined proximity range and the UE location of
the host UAV as specified in clause 9.3.10 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
3\. UAE server 1 determines the list of other UAE servers 2..N operating in
the same location.
4\. For each UAE server determined in step 3, UAE server 1 requests the
dynamic UE list and its corresponding location information for the application
defined proximity range by providing the UE location of the host UAV.
5\. The UAE server(s) 2..N obtain UE information corresponding to the UE
location and application defined proximity range from its corresponding LMS
2..N as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
6\. The UAE server(s) 2..N sends get response with UE list in the UE location
and application defined proximity range to UAE server 1.
7\. If UAE server 1 has no dynamic UE location group for the UAV ID, the UAE
server 1 creates a dynamic UE location based group with the UE list received
from its LMS and other UAE server(s) 2..N. Further UAE server 1 stores the
dynamic UE location based group. Otherwise, the UAE server 1 updates the
dynamic UE location group with the latest UE information. The UAVs whose
locations are no more within the application defined proximity range are
removed from the dynamic UE location group.
#### 7.8.2.3 Obtaining dynamic information of the UEs in application defined
proximity range
##### 7.8.2.3.1 Subscription procedure within UAS operator
Figure 7.8.2.3.1-1 describes the subscription procedure within UAS operator to
obtain dynamic information from the UEs in application defined proximity
range.
Pre-condition:
\- UAE server 1 is tracking the host UAV and has created the dynamic UE
location based group as per procedure in clause 7.8.2.2.
Figure 7.8.2.3.1-1: Subscription procedure within UAS operator
1\. The UAE server 1 managing the dynamic UE location group sends subscribe
dynamic information request to the UAE clients who are part of the dynamic UE
location group. These UAE clients (UAVs) belong to the same UAS operator as
the host UAV. The request consists of reporting configuration (e.g. frequency
of reporting, event based).
2\. The UAE client(s) store the subscription information.
3\. The UAE client(s) send a subscription response to the UAE server 1.
##### 7.8.2.3.2 Subscription procedure across UAS operators
Figure 7.8.2.3.2-1 describes the subscription procedure across UAS operators
to obtain dynamic information from the UEs in application defined proximity
range.
Pre-condition:
\- UAE server 1 has created the dynamic UE location based group as per
procedure in clause 7.8.2.2.
Figure 7.8.2.3.2-1: Subscription procedure across UAS operators
1\. The UAE server 1 managing the dynamic UE location group sends subscribe
dynamic information request to the UAE server(s) who's UAVs are part of the
dynamic UE location group. The request consists of UAV IDs, reporting
configuration (e.g. frequency of reporting, event based).
2\. The UAE server 2 performs subscription procedure as specified in clause
7.8.2.3.1 with the UAE client(s).
3\. The UAE server 2 sends a subscription response to the UAE server 1.
NOTE: UAE server 1 initiates this procedure with other UAE servers operating
in the area.
##### 7.8.2.3.3 Notification procedure
Figure 7.8.2.3.3-1 describes the notification procedure of dynamic information
from the UEs in application defined proximity range.
Pre-condition:
\- UAE server 2 has received the notification of dynamic information from its
subscribed UAE client(s).
Figure 7.8.2.3.3-1: Notification procedure
1\. As per subscription procedure in clause 7.8.2.3.1 and clause 7.8.2.3.2,
the UAE client(s) and UAE server 2 (of another UAS operator) send notification
of dynamic information to the UAE server 1. The notification includes the
nearby UE information (e.g. UAVs), distance with nearby UEs, UEs location
information.
2\. The UAE server 1 aggregates information from different UAE clients to
create the host UAV dynamic information.
#### 7.8.2.4 Notification of host UAV dynamic information
Pre-conditions:
\- UAS Application Specific Server has performed subscription as per procedure
in clause 7.8.2.1 with UAE server 1.
\- UAE server 1 has prepared the host UAV dynamic information as per procedure
in clause 7.8.2.3.3.
Figure 7.8.2.4-1: Notification for host UAV dynamic information
1\. The UAE server 1 sends notification of host UAV dynamic information to the
subscribed entity (i.e. UAS Application Specific Server and/or to the
subscribed UAE client of the host UAV). The notification includes the
aggregated information of all the UEs in the application defined proximity
range of the host UAV and the location of the host UAV.
2\. The UAS Application Specific Server or the UAE client of the host UAV
updates the host UAV dynamic information with the host UAV dynamic information
received in step 1. The UAE client provides the host UAV dynamic information
to the UAS Client.
#### 7.8.2.5 Unsubscription for host UAV dynamic information
Figure 7.8.2.5-1 describes the procedure for unsubscription for host UAV's
dynamic information.
Pre-condition:
\- The UAS Application Specific Server or UAE client of the host UAV have
performed the subscription procedure as specified in clause 7.8.2.1
Figure 7.8.2.5-1: Unsubscription for host UAV dynamic information
1\. The UAS Application Specific Server or UAE client of host UAV sends a
unsubscribe host UAV dynamic information request to the UAE server 1. The
request includes subscription ID.
2\. The UAE server 1 removes the previously stored subscription information.
3\. The UAE server 1 sends unsubscription response to the UAS Application
Specific Server.
4\. The UAE server 1 stops tracking the host UAV location from the location
management server 1 as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
### 7.8.3 Information flows
#### 7.8.3.1 Subscribe host UAV dynamic information request
Table 7.8.3.1-1 describes the information flow for a UAS application specific
server to subscribe to host UAV dynamic information at the UAE server.
Table 7.8.3.1-1: Subscribe host UAV dynamic information request
* * *
Information element Status Description UAV ID M Identifier of the host UAV.
Application defined proximity range information M Description of the range
information over which the host UAV\'s dynamic information is required.
* * *
#### 7.8.3.2 Subscribe host UAV dynamic information response
Table 7.8.3.2-1 describes the information flow for UAE server to respond for
host UAV dynamic subscription request from the UAS application specific
server.
Table 7.8.3.2-1: Subscribe host UAV dynamic information response
* * *
Information element Status Description Result M Result from the UAE server in
response to subscription request indicating success or failure Subscription ID
(NOTE) O Identifier of a successful subscription. NOTE: This IE is included
when the Result indicates success
* * *
#### 7.8.3.3 Notify Host UAV dynamic information
Table 7.8.3.3-1 describes the information flow for a UAS application specific
server to receive notification about Host UAV dynamic information from the UAE
server.
Table 7.8.3.3-1: Notify Host UAV dynamic information
* * *
Information element Status Description Subscription ID M Identifier of the
subscription for this notification. Location of the host UAV M The location of
the host UAV during the Host UAV dynamic information subscription. List of
UAVs information M The information of the UAVs which were detected in the
application defined proximity range. >Nearby UAV ID M The identifier of nearby
UAS >Location information M Location information of the nearby UAV within the
application defined proximity range >Distance information M Distance
information of the nearby UAV, relative to the host UAV.
* * *
#### 7.8.3.4 Notification of dynamic information
Table 7.8.3.4-1 describes the information flow for notification of dynamic
information from UAE client to the UAE server.
Table 7.8.3.4-1: Notification of dynamic information
* * *
Information element Status Description Subscription ID M Identifier of the
subscription for this notification. List of UAVs information M The information
of the UAVs which were detected in the proximity area of the reporting UAV.
>Nearby UAV ID M The identifier of nearby UAV >Local dynamic information M The
local dynamic information of the nearby UAV (e.g. location)
* * *
#### 7.8.3.5 Unsubscribe host UAV dynamic information request
Table 7.8.3.5-1 describes the information flow for a UAS application specific
server to unsubscribe the host UAV dynamic information at the UAE server.
Table 7.8.3.5-1: Unsubscribe host UAV dynamic information request
* * *
Information element Status Description Subscription ID (NOTE) M Identifier of
a successful subscription.
* * *
#### 7.8.3.6 Unsubscribe host UAV dynamic information response
Table 7.8.3.6-1 describes the information flow for UAE server to respond for
host UAV dynamic unsubscription request from the UAS application specific
server.
Table 7.8.3.6-1: Unsubscribe host UAV dynamic information response
* * *
Information element Status Description Result M Result from the UAE server in
response to unsubscription request indicating success or failure
* * *
# 8 APIs
## 8.1 General
The following UAE capabilities are offered as APIs:
\- UAE server APIs;
The following SEAL service APIs are specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5]:
\- Group management server APIs;
\- Location management server APIs;
\- Configuration management server APIs;
\- Identity management server APIs; and
\- Key management server APIs.
When UAS application specific server invokes a SEAL server API directly, the
UAS application specific server acting as VAL server shall interact with the
corresponding SEAL server over the SEAL-S reference point for the API
invocation request and response as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
## 8.2 UAE server APIs
### 8.2.1 General
Table 8.2.1-1 illustrates the UAE server APIs.
Table 8.2.1-1: List of UAE server APIs
* * *
API Name API Operations Known Consumer(s) Communication Type
UAE_C2OperationModeManagement API Manage_C2OperationMode UAS application
specific server Request/ Response Notify_SelectedC2Mode (NOTE) UAS application
specific server Subscribe/notify Notify_C2ModeSwitching (NOTE) UAS application
specific server Subscribe/notify Notify_C2OperationModeManagementComplete
(NOTE) UAS application specific server Subscribe/notify UAE_RealtimeUAVStatus
API Subscribe_RealtimeUAVStatus UAS application specific server
Subscribe/notify Unsubscribe_RealtimeUAVStatus UAS application specific server
Subscribe/notify Notify_RealtimeUAVStatus UAS application specific server
Subscribe/notify UAE_ChangeUSSManagement API Manage_USSManagement UAS
application specific server Request/ Response Notify_USSManagementComplete UAS
application specific server Subscribe/notify Manage_USSChange UAS application
specific server Request/ Response Notify_USSChange UAS application specific
server Subscribe/notify Notify_USSChangeTrigger UAS application specific
server Subscribe/notify Manage_DAAManagement UAS application specific server
Request/ Response Notify_DAAManagementComplete UAS application specific server
Subscribe/notify Notify_DAAClientSupportEvent UAS application specific server
Subscribe/notify Manage_DAAServerSupportEvent UAS application specific server
Request/ Response UAE_UAVDynamicInfo API Subscribe_UAVDynamicInfo UAS
application specific server Subscribe/notify Unsubscribe_UAVDynamicInfo UAS
application specific server Subscribe/notify Notify_UAVDynamicInfo UAS
application specific server Subscribe/notify NOTE: The subscribe operation for
Notify_C2OperationModeManagementComplete, Notify_SelectedC2Mode and
Notify_C2ModeSwitching is part of Manage_C2OperationMode
* * *
### 8.2.2 UAE_C2OperationModeManagement API
#### 8.2.2.1 General
**API description:** This API enables the UAS application specific server to
communicate with the UAE server to send configurations for C2 operation modes
for the UAS and receive notifications of the selected C2 communication modes
from the UAS UEs (i.e. UAV, UAV-C).
#### 8.2.2.2 Manage_C2OperationMode operation
**API operation name:** Manage_C2OperationMode
**Description:** Manage (initiate, change or delete) the configuration of the
C2 operation modes for the UAS UEs.
**Known Consumers:** UAS application specific server.
**Inputs:** Refer clause 7.4.3.1.
**Outputs:** Refer clause 7.4.3.2.
See clause 7.4.2.1 for the details of usage of this API operation.
#### 8.2.2.3 Notify_SelectedC2Mode
**API operation name:** Notify_SelectedC2Mode
**Description:** Notification of the selected C2 communication modes from the
UAS UEs.
**Known Consumers:** UAS application specific server.
**Inputs:** Refer clause 7.4.3.10.
**Outputs:** Refer clause 7.4.3.11.
See clause 7.4.2.3 for the details of usage of this API operation.
#### 8.2.2.4 Notify_C2ModeSwitching
**API operation name:** Notify_C2ModeSwitching
**Description:** Notification of the C2 communication mode switching from the
UAS UEs.
**Known Consumers:** UAS application specific server.
**Inputs:** Refer clause 7.4.3.5.
**Outputs:** Refer clause 7.4.3.6.
See clause 7.4.2.4 for the details of usage of this API operation.
#### 8.2.2.5 Notify_C2OperationModeManagementComplete
**API operation name:** Notify_C2OperationModeManagementComplete
**Description:** Notification about the C2 operation mode management
completion by UAE server.
**Known Consumers:** UAS application specific server.
**Inputs:** Refer clause 7.4.3.3.
**Outputs:** None.
See clause 7.4.2.1 for the details of usage of this API operation.
### 8.2.3 UAE_ RealtimeUAVStatus API
#### 8.2.3.1 General
**API description:** This API enables the UAS application specific server to
subscribe for and receive notifications for the realtime status information of
the UAV.
#### 8.2.3.2 Subscribe_RealtimeUAVStatus operation
**API operation name:** Subscribe_RealtimeUAVStatus
**Description:** Subscription for obtaining the realtime UAV status
information.
**Known Consumers:** UAS application specific server.
**Inputs:** Refer clause 7.5.3.2.
**Outputs:** Refer clause 7.5.3.3.
See clause 7.5.2.2 for the details of usage of this API operation.
#### 8.2.3.3 Unsubscribe_RealtimeUAVStatus operation
**API operation name:** Unsubscribe_RealtimeUAVStatus
**Description:** Unsubscription for a existing subscription for obtaining the
realtime UAV status information.
**Known Consumers:** UAS application specific server.
**Inputs:** Refer clause 7.5.3.5.
**Outputs:** Refer clause 7.5.3.6.
See clause 7.5.2.4 for the details of usage of this API operation.
#### 8.2.3.4 Notify_RealtimeUAVStatus operation
**API operation name:** Notify_RealtimeUAVStatus
**Description:** Notification of the realtime UAV status information.
**Known Consumers:** UAS application specific server.
**Inputs:** Refer clause 7.5.3.4.
**Outputs:** None.
See clause 7.5.2.3 for the details of usage of this API operation.
### 8.2.4 UAE_ChangeUSSManagement API
#### 8.2.4.1 General
**API description:** This API enables the UAS application specific server to
communicate with the UAE server to send policies, requests for change of USS
for the UAS and receive notifications from the UAS UEs (i.e. UAV) about change
of USS.
#### 8.2.4.2 Manage_USSManagement operation
**API operation name:** Manage_USSManagement
**Description:** Manage (initiate, change or delete) the configuration of the
policies for change of USS for the UAS UEs.
**Known Consumers:** UAS application specific server.
**Inputs:** Refer clause 7.6.3.1.
**Outputs:** Refer clause 7.6.3.2.
See clause 7.6.2.1 for the details of usage of this API operation.
#### 8.2.4.3 Notify_USSManagementComplete operation
**API operation name:** Notify_USSManagementComplete
**Description:** Notification about the USS management completion by UAE
server.
**Known Consumers:** UAS application specific server.
**Inputs:** Refer clause 7.6.3.3.
**Outputs:** None.
See clause 7.6.2.1 for the details of usage of this API operation.
#### 8.2.4.4 Manage_USSChange operation
**API operation name:** Manage_USSChange
**Description:** Manage change of USS on request from UAS application specific
server.
**Known Consumers:** UAS application specific server.
**Inputs:** Refer clause 7.6.3.6.
**Outputs:** Refer clause 7.6.3.7.
See clause 7.6.2.3 for the details of usage of this API operation.
#### 8.2.4.5 Notify_USSChange operation
**API operation name:** Notify_USSChange
**Description:** Notification about the change of USS required by UAS UE.
**Known Consumers:** UAS application specific server.
**Inputs:** Refer clause 7.6.3.8.
**Outputs:** None.
See clause 7.6.2.4 for the details of usage of this API operation.
#### 8.2.4.6 Notify_USSChangeTrigger
**API operation name:** Notify_USSChangeTrigger
**Description:** Notify a trigger event related to the recommended change of
USS.
**Known Consumers:** UAS application specific server.
**Inputs:** Refer clause 7.6.3.9.
**Outputs:** None.
See clause 7.6.2.5 for the details of usage of this API operation.
### 8.2.5 UAE_DAASupport API
#### 8.2.5.1 General
**API description:** This API enables the UAS application specific server to
communicate with the UAE server for the DAA application policy and send and
receive notifications related with DAA support aspects between the USS and the
UAE client.
#### 8.2.5.2 Manage_DAAManagement operation
**API operation name:** Manage_DAAManagement
**Description:** Manage (initiate, change or delete) configuration of the DAA
application policy.
**Known Consumers:** UAS application specific server.
**Inputs:** Refer clause 7.7.3.1.
**Outputs:** Refer clause 7.7.3.2.
See clause 7.7.2.1.1 for the details of usage of this API operation.
#### 8.2.5.3 Notify_DAAManagementComplete operation
**API operation name:** Notify_DAAManagementComplete
**Description:** Notification about the DAA management completion by UAE
server.
**Known Consumers:** UAS application specific server.
**Inputs:** Refer clause 7.7.3.3.
**Outputs:** None.
See clause 7.7.2.1.1 for the details of usage of this API operation.
#### 8.2.5.4 Notify_DAAClientSupportEvent operation
**API operation name:** Notify_DAAClientSupportEvent
**Description:** Notification about possible UAVs in proximity, identified by
the client.
**Known Consumers:** UAS application specific server.
**Inputs:** Refer clause 7.7.3.6.
**Outputs:** Refer clause 7.7.3.7.
See clause 7.7.2.2.1 for the details of usage of this API operation.
#### 8.2.5.5 Manage_DAAServerSupportEvent operation
**API operation name:** Manage_DAAServerSupport
**Description:** Notification about possible UAVs in proximity, identified by
the server.
**Known Consumers:** UAS application specific server.
**Inputs:** Refer clause 7.7.3.8.
**Outputs:** Refer clause 7.7.3.9.
See clause 7.7.2.2.2 for the details of usage of this API operation.
### 8.2.6 UAE_UAVDynamicInfo API
#### 8.2.6.1 General
**API description:** This API enables the UAS application specific server to
subscribe for and receive notifications for the host UAV dynamic information.
#### 8.2.6.2 Subscribe_UAVDynamicInfo operation
**API operation name:** Subscribe_UAVDynamicInfo
**Description:** Subscription for obtaining the UAV dynamic information.
**Known Consumers:** UAS application specific server.
**Inputs:** Refer clause 7.8.3.1.
**Outputs:** Refer clause 7.8.3.2.
See clause 7.8.2.1 for the details of usage of this API operation.
#### 8.2.6.3 Unsubscribe_UAVDynamicInfo operation
**API operation name:** Unsubscribe_UAVDynamicInfo
**Description:** Unsubscription for a existing subscription for obtaining the
UAV dynamic information.
**Known Consumers:** UAS application specific server.
**Inputs:** Refer clause 7.8.3.5.
**Outputs:** Refer clause 7.8.3.6.
See clause 7.8.2.x for the details of usage of this API operation.
#### 8.2.6.4 Notify_UAVDynamicInfo operation
**API operation name:** Notify_UAVDynamicInfo
**Description:** Notification of the UAV dynamic information.
**Known Consumers:** UAS application specific server.
**Inputs:** Refer clause 7.8.3.4.
**Outputs:** None.
See clause 7.8.2.4 for the details of usage of this API operation.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Support for edge deployments
The application architecture for supporting edge applications are specified in
3GPP TS 23.558 [7]. The UAS application layer as specified in clause 5 can be
deployed in edge computing environment.
Figure A-1 illustrates a UAS application layer deployment in edge computing
environments.
Figure A-1: UAS application layer deployment in edge computing environment
Figure A-1 illustrates how the UAS application architecture with EDGEAPP
support for edge deployments can be deployed. In a UE, the UAS application
specific client(s), UAE client and SEAL clients interact with the Edge Enabler
Client (EEC) via EDGE-5 reference point in order to consume edge services. In
an Edge Data Network (EDN), the UAS application specific server(s), UAE server
and SEAL servers acting as Edge Application Server (EAS), interacts with the
Edge Enabler Server (EES) via EDGE-3 reference point. The service provisioning
and EAS discovery enable the UAS application layer entities in the UE to
communicate with the application layer entities in the EDN. The interactions
between the entities and 5GS are not shown for the sake of simplicity.
NOTE: This clause illustrates an example edge deployment using edge enabler
layer. There can be other valid edge deployments enabled for UAS application
layer.
###### ## Annex B (Informative): Deployment models
# B.1 General
This clause describes deployments of the functional model specified in clause
5. The reference points utilized from underlying 3GPP network as specified in
clause 5.5 is represented as 3GPP interfaces in the deployment models.
NOTE: The representation of SEAL functionalities in the vertical deployment is
specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
# B.2 Deployment of UAE server
The UAE server deployments can be centralized and distributed.
## B.2.1 Centralized deployments
A centralized deployment is where a single UAE server offers the UAE
capabilities to one or more UAS application specific servers (e.g. USS/UTM).
The UAE server and the UAS application specific server can be co-located in a
single physical entity. The UAE server can be deployed either in the PLMN
operator domain or deployed in the UAS operator domain. The UAE server
connects with the 3GPP network systems (EPS, 5GS) in one or more PLMN operator
domain. When UAE server and UAS application specific server are co-located in
a single physical entity, the Us reference point between the UAE server and
the UAS application specific server is not used.
Figure B.2.1-1 illustrates a deployment of the UAE server and the UAS
application specific server in a single physical entity and deployed in UAS
operator domain. The UAE server can be deployed in a separate physical entity
from the UAS application specific server in the UAS operator domain. In such
deployments, the Us reference point is used for the communication between the
UAE server and the UAS application specific server.
Figure B.2.1-1: UAE server co-located with UAS application specific server in
a single physical entity
Figure B.2.1-2 illustrates a deployment of the UAE server in the PLMN operator
domain and the UAS application specific server in the UAS operator domain. The
Us reference point is used for the communication between UAS application
specific server and the UAE server. The UAE server can support multiple UAS
application specific servers.
Figure B.2.1-2: UAE server deployed in the PLMN operator domain
Figure B.2.1‑3 illustrates a deployment of the UAE server which connects to
the 3GPP network systems (EPS, 5GS) in multiple PLMN operator domain. The UAE
server can be co-located with the UAS application specific server in a single
physical entity or deployed in different physical entities.
Figure B.2.1-3: Deployment of UAE server with connections to 3GPP network
systems in multiple PLMN operator domains
Figure B.2.1‑4 illustrates a deployment of the UAE server which provides UAE
capabilities to multiple UAS application specific servers over Us reference
point and connects to the 3GPP network systems (EPS, 5GS) in multiple PLMN
operator domain.
Figure B.2.1-4: Deployment of UAE server with connections to multiple UAS
application specific servers
## B.2.2 Distributed deployment
The distributed deployment is where multiple UAE servers are deployed either
in the UAS operator domain or in the PLMN operator domain. The distributed
deployment of the UAE servers provide geographical coverage or support
multiple PLMN operator domains in a geographical location. The UAE servers
interconnect via UAE-E and the Us reference point is used for interaction
between UAS application specific server and the UAE server.
Figure B.2.2-1 illustrates the deployment of UAE servers in multiple PLMN
operator domain and provides UAE capabilities to the UAS application specific
server deployed in the UAS operator domain. The UAS application specific
server connects via Us to the UAE servers.
Figure B.2.2-1: Distributed deployment of UAE servers in multiple PLMN
operator domain without interconnection between UAE servers
Figure B.2.2-2 illustrates the deployment of multiple UAE servers deployed in
multiple PLMN operator domains. The UAS application specific server connects
via Us to the UAE server. The interconnection between UAE servers is via UAE-E
and supports the UAS applications for the UAS UEs connected to the UAE servers
in multiple PLMN operator domains.
Figure B.2.2-2: Distributed deployment of UAE servers in multiple PLMN
operator domain with interconnection between UAE servers
Figure B.2.2-3 illustrates the deployment of multiple UAE servers in PLMN
operator domain based on geographical coverage. The UAS application specific
server connects via Us to the UAE server 1. The UAE servers interconnect via
UAE-E and support the UAS communications to the UAS UEs (i.e., UAV, UAV-C)
connected to the UAE servers.
Figure B.2.2-3: Distributed deployment of UAE servers in PLMN operator domain
Figure B.2.2-4 illustrates the deployment of multiple UAE servers in the UAS
operator domain where UAE server 1 and UAE server 2 connect with 3GPP network
system of PLMN operator domain 1 and PLMN operator domain 2 respectively. The
UAS application specific server connects via Us to the UAE server 1. The UAE
servers interconnect via UAE-E and support the UAS applications for the UAS
UEs connected via both the PLMN operator domains.
Figure B.2.2-4: Distributed deployment of UAE servers in UAS operator domain
###### ## Annex C (informative): Examples of usage of SEAL by UAS application
specific server
All procedures of SEAL services (e.g. GMS, LMS) are available directly for
usage by UAS application specific server. Some examples of the usage of SEAL
by the UAS application specific server is illustrated below:
\- Group creation procedures of Group Management server provides support for
the UAS applications (e.g. paired UAV and UAV-C are grouped) to provide a
dedicated group for the UAV and UAV-C to communicate with each other.
\- The UAS application specific server (e.g. USS/UTM) monitors the presence of
UAVs in a given geographic area by using the Monitoring Location Deviation
procedure of the LM server.
\- The UAS application specific server (e.g. USS/UTM) can directly fetch the
multiple UAV related events from NRM server (e.g. to detect any events related
to the UAV, the UAS application specific server can need multiple events
related to the UAV (UE) from the 3GPP core network).
\- The UAS application specific client and UAS application specific server can
utilize the resource management procedures of the NRM server to manage unicast
resources associated to SIP sessions.
#