# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
Considering vertical-specific applications and edge applications as the major
consumers of 3GPP-provided data analytics services, the application enablement
layer can play role on the exposure of data analytics services from different
3GPP domains to the vertical/ASP in a unified manner; and on defining, at an
overarching layer, value-add application data analytics services which cover
stats/predictions for the end-to-end application service.
This technical specification provides procedures for enabling ADAE service
over 3GPP networks, while the architecture is defined in TS 23.434 [2].
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the procedures, information flows and APIs
necessary for Application Data Analytics Enablement SEAL Service.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.434: \"Service Enabler Architecture Layer for Verticals (SEAL);
Functional architecture and information flows\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.531: \"Data Collection and Reporting; General Description and
Architecture\"
[4] 3GPP TS 23.288: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to support
network data analytics services\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.104: \"Management and orchestration; Management Data
Analytics\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.435: \"Procedures for Network Slice Capability Exposure for
Application Layer Enablement Service\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.222: \"Common API Framework for 3GPP Northbound APIs\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.501: "System architecture for the 5G System".
[10] GSMA NG.116 - Generic Network Slice Template.
[11] 3GPP TS 22.261: "Service requirements for the 5G system".
[12] 3GPP TS 28.545: \"Management and orchestration; Fault Supervision (FS)\".
# 3 Definitions of terms and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ADAES Application Data Analytics Enabler Server
ADAEC Application Data Analytics Enabler Client
A-ADRF Application layer - Analytical Data Repository Function
A-DCCF Application layer - Data Collection and Coordination Function
ASP Application Service Provider
DNAI Data Network Access Identifier
EAS Edge Application Server
EEL Edge Enabler Layer
EES Edge Enabler Server
FLS Fused Location Server
LMS Location Management Server
MDAS Management Domain Analytics Service
NSCE Network Slice Capability Enablement
NWDAF Network Data Analytics Function
OAM Operation, Administration and Maintenance
RNIS Radio Network Information Service
RTT Round-Trip Time
VAL Vertical Application Layer
# 4 Architectural requirements
## 4.1 General Description
The following clauses specify the requirements for application data analytics
enablement service.
## 4.2 General Requirements
[AR-4.2-a] The ADAE client and the ADAE server shall support one or more VAL
applications.
[AR-4.2-b] Supported ADAE capabilities shall be offered as APIs to the VAL
applications.
[AR-4.2-c] The ADAE shall support interaction with 3GPP network system to
consume network and management data analytics services.
[AR-4.2-d] The ADAE client shall be capable to communicate with one or more
ADAE servers of the same ADAE service provider.
## 4.3 ADAE internal architecture requirements
[AR-4.3-a] The ADAE layer shall be able to provide a data collection
coordination functionality to enable the collection from diverse data sources
(OAM, 5GC, UE) per application data analytics event type.
[AR-4.3-b] The ADAE layer shall include a data analytics repository function
to store application data analytics.
[AR-4.3-c] The data collection coordination and repository capabilities may be
offered as APIs to ADAE server.
## 4.4 ADAE capability related requirements
[AR-4.4-a] The ADAE server shall be capable of providing data analytics for
the VAL server performance.
[AR-4.4-b] The ADAE server shall be capable of providing data analytics for
the VAL application sessions (for both Uu-based and PC5-based sessions).
[AR-4.4-c] The ADAE server shall be able to collect application performance
measurements and analytics from one or more ADAE clients.
[AR-4.4-d] The ADAE server shall be capable of collecting edge data from one
or more edge platforms
[AR-4.4-e] The ADAE server shall enable the exposure of edge data analytics to
the VAL applications
[AR-4.4-f] The ADAE server shall be capable of providing data analytics for
the VAL server or VAL session performance for a requested slice or slice
instance.
[AR-4.4-g] The ADAE server shall be capable of providing data analytics for
the location accuracy of one or more VAL UEs.
[AR-4.4-h] The ADAE server shall be capable of providing data analytics
related to the availability and status of one or more service APIs.
# 5 Application architecture for ADAES
## 5.1 General
This clause provides the functional architecture for ADAE. This includes the
on-network and off-network functional models which are provided in detail in
clause 5.2.
In addition, the ADAE internal architecture is described in 5.3, which aligns
with the 3GPP data analytics framework (specified in TS 23.288 [4]) and
introduces new logical entities within ADAE framework, such as the A-DCCF and
A-ADRF.
## 5.2 Functional architecture
### 5.2.1 General
The functional architecture for the application data analytics enablement is
based on the generic functional model specified in clause 6.2 of 3GPP TS
23.434 [2]. It is organized into functional entities to describe a functional
architecture which addresses the support for application data analytics
enablement aspects for vertical applications.
### 5.2.2 On-network Functional Architecture
For the on-network functional architecture, both service-based representation
and reference point representation are provided.
Figure 5.2.2-1 depicts the application data analytics enablement architecture
in the non-roaming case, using the reference point representation showing how
various entities interact with each other.
Figure 5.2.2-1: Architecture for application data analytics enablement \--
reference points representation
The application data analytics enablement client communicates with the
application data analytics enablement server over the ADAE-UU reference point.
The application data analytics enablement client provides the support for
application data analytics enablement functions to the VAL client(s) over
ADAE‑C reference point. The VAL server(s) communicates with the application
data analytics enablement server over the ADAE-S reference point. The
application data analytics enablement server, acting as AF, may communicate
with the 5G Core Network functions (over N33 reference point to NEF and N6
reference point to UPF) and OAM (over ADAE-OAM interface).
Figure 5.2.2-2 exhibits the service-based interfaces for providing and
consuming application data analytics enablement services. The application data
analytics enablement server could provide service to VAL server and ADAE
client through interface SAdae.
Figure 5.2.2-2: Architecture for application data analytics enablement \--
Service based representation
Figure 5.2.2-3 illustrates the service-based representation for utilization of
the 5GS network services based on the 5GS SBA specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [9].
Figure 5.2.2-3: Architecture for application data analytics enablement
utilizing the 5GS network services based on the 5GS SBA -- Service based
representation
Figure 5.2.2-4 illustrates the architecture for inter-service communication
between ADAES server and other SEAL server.
Figure 5.2.2-4: Inter-service communication between ADAES server and other
SEAL server
The ADAE server interacts with another SEAL server for inter-service
communication over SEAL-X reference point.
### 5.2.3 Off-network Functional Architecture
Figure 5.2.3-1 illustrates the generic off-network functional model for ADAE.
Figure 5.2.3-1: Generic off-network functional model
In the vertical application layer, the VAL client of UE1 communicates with VAL
client of UE2 over VAL-PC5 reference point. An application data analytics
enablement client of UE1 interacts with the corresponding application data
analytics enablement client of UE2 over ADAE-PC5 reference points. The UE1, if
connected to the network via Uu reference point, can also act as a UE-to-
network relay, to enable UE2 to access the VAL server(s) over the VAL-UU
reference point.
The service-based interface representation is specified in clause 15 of 3GPP
TS 23.434 [2].
## 5.3 ADAE internal architecture
In ADAE framework, A-DCCF and A-ADRF can be defined as functionalities within
the internal ADAE architecture and can offer the following functionalities:
\- Application layer - Data Collection and Coordination Function (A-DCCF)
coordinates the collection and distribution of data requested by the consumer
(ADAE server). Data Collection Coordination is supported by a A-DCCF. ADAE
server can send requests for data to the A-DCCF rather than directly to the
Data Sources. A-DCCF may also perform data processing/abstraction and data
preparation based on the VAL server requirements.
\- Application layer -- Analytics and Data Repository Function (A-ADRF) stores
historical data and/or analytics, i.e., data and/or analytics related to past
time period that has been obtained by the consumer (e.g. ADAE server). After
the consumer obtains data and/or analytics, consumer may store historical data
and/or analytics in an A-ADRF. Whether the consumer directly contacts the
A-ADRF or goes via the A-DCCF is based on configuration.
Figure 5.3-1 illustrates the generic functional model for ADAE when re-using
the 3GPP network data analytics model.
Figure 5.3-1: ADAE internal functional architecture
In this model, an A-DCCF is used to fetch data or put data into an
application-level entity (e.g. A-ADRF, Data Source). Such A-DCCF coordinates
the collection and distribution of data requested by ADAE server (over
ADCCF-1, ADAE-X). ADAE server can also directly interact with the Data Sources
via ADAE-Y.
Also, Application layer -- Analytics and Data Repository Function (A-ADRF) can
be used to store historical data and/or analytics, i.e., data and/or analytics
related to past time period that has been obtained by the ADAE server (via
AADRF-1) or other NFs/NWDAF. ADAE server can also fetch historical data from
A-ADRF. Whether the ADAE server directly contacts the A-ADRF or goes via the
A-DCCF is based on configuration.
Data Sources can be 5GS data sources (5GC, OAM) or enablement layer data
sources (SEAL, EEL) or external data sources at the DN side (VAL server/ EAS)
and VAL UEs. A-DCCF and A-ADRF can be used only for interacting with certain
data sources (e.g., 5GC, OAM) based on configuration, and can be hidden from
the VAL layer.
NOTE: If the Data Source is the VAL UE, then the data collection mechanism
shall reuse the SA4 mechanism based on EVEX study (TS 26.531 [3]).
# 6 ADAE layer Functional Description
## 6.1 Support for application performance analytics
This feature supports the derivation and exposure of application layer
analytics to provide insight on the operation and performance of an
application (VAL server or EAS, application session), and in particular
statistics or prediction on parameters related to e.g. VAL server number of
connections for a given time and area, VAL server rate of connection requests,
connection probability failure rates, RTT and deviations for a VAL server or
VAL UE session, packet loss rates etc. This feature also supports the
collection of service experience information from the ADAE clients (as
described in clause 8.9) to support application performance analytics.
## 6.2 Support for slice-specific application performance analytics
This feature introduces application layer analytics to provide insight on the
performance of the VAL applications when using a given network slice (from a
list of subscribed slices for the VAL customer). Such capability provides an
analytics service to a consumer who can be either the VAL server (for helping
to identify what slice it will use for its applications) or for other
consumers such as SEAL NSCE to support on providing analytics (since NSCE
doesn\'t contain an analytics engine for providing analytics on top of NWDAF
[4] /MDAS [5]).
## 6.3 Support for UE-to-UE application performance analytics
This feature supports the derivation and exposure of application layer
analytics to predict the performance of an application session among two or
more VAL UEs within a service or group. Such prediction relates to application
QoS attributes prediction for a given time horizon and area. This can be
requested by the VAL server during the session, or the VAL server can
subscribe to receive predicted application QoS downgrade indication for an
ongoing session. Such analytics will help improving the application service
experience and allow the VAL layer to pro-actively adapt to predicted
application QoS changes.
## 6.4 Support for location accuracy analytics
This feature supports application layer analytics enablement to allow a VAL
server to be notified based on analytics whether the accuracy of a location
can be met for a given application and optionally for a given UE/group route.
For example, a VAL server may request the ADAE server to provide analytics
whether the accuracy of a location for the UEs within a VAL application is
predicted to be sustainable or is expected to downgrade in a specific area or
for an expected route from location A to location B.
## 6.5 Support for service API analytics
This feature introduces service API analytics to allow a VAL server or any
other consumer (e.g. API provider) to be notified on the predicted /statistic
availability and service level for the requested service API analytics. Such
analytics may be utilized by the API provider to perform actions to avoid
service API invocation failures or other actions like throttling/rate
limitations. Also, such analytics will support the VAL server to identify
if/when to perform an API invocation request based on the API expected status
at the given area and time horizon.
## 6.6 Slice usage pattern analytics
Slice usage pattern analytics provides network slice usage pattern analytics
based on collected network slice performance and analytics, historical network
slice status, and network performance to help the analytics consumer manage
the network slice.
## 6.7 Support for edge load analytics
Edge load analytics provide insight on the operation and performance of an EDN
and in particular statistics or prediction on parameters related to:
\- the EAS / EES load for one or more EAS/EES
\- edge platform load parameters, which include the aggregated load per EDN or
per DNAI due to the edge support services and e.g., load level of edge
computational resources.
Such analytics can improve edge support services by allowing the pro-active
edge service operation changes to deal with possible edge overload scenarios.
For example, this can trigger EAS migration to a different EDN / central DN,
or pro-active EAS reselection for a target UE or group of UEs.
# 7 Identities and commonly used values
## 7.1 General
The common identities for SEAL refer to TS 23.434[2]. The following clauses
list the additional identities and commonly used values for Application Data
Analytics Enablement Service.
## 7.2 ADAE Server ID
The ADAE server ID uniquely identifies the application data analytics
enablement server, and each ADAE server ID is unique within PLMN domain.
## 7.3 ADAE client ID
The ADAE client ID uniquely identifies the application data analytics
enablement client.
## 7.4 A-ADRF ID
The A-ADRF ID uniquely identifies the application data analytics repository
function.
## 7.5 A-DCCF ID
The A-DCCF ID uniquely identifies the application data collection and
coordination function.
## 7.6 Data Producer ID
The Data Producer ID uniquely identifies the data producer / source which is
used as input for application data analytics enablement services. Data
Producer based on the analytics event, can be either a network function or a
management domain function/service or an application server or client or an
edge / cloud service.
## 7.7 ADAE service area
The ADAE service area is the area where the Application Data Analytics
Enablement server owner provides its analytics services. It is equal to the
coverage area for which analytics apply.
The ADAE service area can be expressed as a Topological Service Area (e.g. a
list of TA), a Geographical Service Area (e.g. geographical coordinates) or
both.
## 7.8 Analytics ID
The analytics ID (or analytics event ID) identifies the application layer
analytics event which corresponds to the specified ADAE analytics services.
# 8 Procedures and information flows
## 8.1 General
This clause describes the procedures and the information flows related to the
ADAE capabilities, as introduced in clause 6.
## 8.2 Procedure on support for application performance analytics
### 8.2.1 General
In this functionality, two procedures are described in more detail in clause
8.2.2 and 8.2.3 accordingly:
\- one procedure for VAL server related analytics where an example in provided
for VAL server performance,
\- one procedure for VAL session/UE related analytics.
### 8.2.2 Procedure on VAL server performance analytics
Figure 8.2.2-1 illustrates the procedure where the VAL server performance
analytics are performed based on data collected from the ongoing VAL sessions
as well as data from the DN (VAL server, DN database or networking stack at
the DN).
Pre-conditions:
1\. ADAE Client (ADAEC) is connected to ADAES.
2\. Data producers (e.g. A-ADRF, VAL Client) may be pre-configured with data
producer profiles for the data they can provide. ADAES and ADAEC have
discovered available data producers and their data producer profiles.
Figure 8.2.2-1: ADAES support for VAL server performance analytics
1\. The consumer of the ADAES analytics service sends a VAL performance
analytics subscription request to ADAES.
2\. The ADAES sends a subscription response as a positive or negative
acknowledgement to the consumer of the analytics service.
**3\. The ADAES maps the analytics event ID to a list of data collection event
identifiers, and a list of data producer IDs. Such mapping may be
preconfigured by OAM or may be determined by ADAES based on the analytics
event type / vertical type and/or data producer profile.**
**4\. The ADAES sends a data collection subscription request to the Data
Producers (at the DN side or UE side) with the respective Data Collection
Event ID and the requirement for data collection. Such data producers include
the A-ADRF, the A-DCCF, the VAL server, SEALDD server, or the VAL UEs.**
**5\. The Data Producer(s)** sends a subscription response as a positive or
negative acknowledgement **to the ADAES.**
NOTE: The ADAES acting as AF may also subscribe to NEF/SMF/PCF/NWDAF to
monitor network/UE situation or network data analytics required for the
application data analytics event.
6\. The ADAES based on subscription, may receive offline stats/data from
A-ADRF on the VAL server performance based on the analytics/data collection
event ID. Such offline data can be average/peak throughput, average/maximum
e2e delay, jitter, av. PER, availability, VAL server load, number of failed
transactions, and can be for a given area and time of the day (based on the
time/area of the request).
A session starts between the VAL server #1 and a UE (this could happen for
more than one UEs)
7\. The Data Producer at DN side, starts collecting data from the data
generating entities, e.g. real-time networking or application data (from
networking start at DN or VAL server itself), such as RTT, PER, throughput.
8a. The Data Producer sends the real-time data to the ADAES, where the data
correspond to the data collection ID or the analytics event ID for which the
ADAES subscribed.
8b. The ADAES may receive also data (periodically or if a threshold is reached
based on configuration) from the application of the UE within the ongoing
session (via ADAEC). Such data can be about the RTT, average/peak throughput,
jitter, QoE measurements (MOS, stalling events, stalling ratios, etc), QoS
profile load, VAL server load, etc.
9\. When the VAL UE session with VAL server finishes, the ADAEC notifies the
ADAEC of the completion of the reporting.
10\. The ADAES abstracts or correlates the data based on the analytics event
and the data collection configuration. Such correlation can be filtering of
data for the same metrics but with different granularities or be
combining/aggregating the data of segments of the end-to-end path (end to end
is between VAL client and server). The outcome is an
abstracted/correlated/filtered set of data.
11\. The ADAES derives application layer analytics on VAL server #1
performance, based on the analytics ID and type of request. Such analytics can
be stats or prediction for a given area/time and based on the event type for a
given network configuration.
12**.** The ADAES sends the analytics to the consumer, where these analytics
include the VAL server 1 predicted or statistic performance for a given area
and time horizon, including also the confidence level, whether offline/online
analytics were used.
### 8.2.3 Procedure on VAL session performance analytics
Figure 8.2.3-1 illustrates the procedure where the VAL session performance
analytics are performed based on data collected from the ongoing VAL sessions.
Pre-conditions:
1\. ADAEC is connected to ADAES.
2\. Data producers (e.g. A-ADRF, VAL Client) may be pre-configured with data
producer profiles for the data they can provide. ADAES and ADAEC have
discovered available data producers and their data producer profiles.
Figure 8.2.3-1: ADAES support for VAL session performance analytics
1\. The consumer of the ADAES analytics service sends a VAL performance
analytics subscription request to ADAES and provides the analytics event ID
e.g. \"VAL UE perf prediction\", the target VAL UE ID, VAL server ID/VAL
application ID, the time validity and area of the request, the required
confidence level, exposure level for providing UE analytics. If the consumer
is the VAL server, the VAL server can provide to ADAEC application data
related to the UE expected route/trajectory and VAL application traffic
schedule / expected session time.
2\. The ADAES sends a subscription response as an ACK to the consumer.
**3\. The ADAES selects the corresponding ADAEC of the VAL UE for which the
local analytics need to be performed.**
**4a. The ADAES sends a subscription request to the ADAEC with the analytics
event ID and the configuration of the reporting required (e.g., periodic,
based on threshold or event).**
**4b. The ADAEC sends a subscription response to ADAES.**
**5\. The ADAEC maps the analytics event ID to a list of data collection event
identifiers or data collected IDs at the VAL UE or other UEs within the
service and in proximity (in group-based communications). The ADAEC also
determines the data producers using the analytics event ID, target data
producer profile and optional preconfigured policies.**
**6\. The** ADAEC subscribes to the VAL clients and/or requests UE local data
based on the respective Data Collection Event ID (or the analytics event ID if
they already know the mapping). This data may come from the PDU layer of the
UE (via listening the traffic), or via VAL client of one or more UEs (if an
application consists of a group of UEs).
**A session starts between the VAL UE #1 and a VAL server.**
**7\. The** ADAEC (after being aware from the VAL client that the session
started) sends a notification to ADAES that a session started, and it could be
possible to provide real-time data analytics for VAL UE performance in the
target area.
**8\. The ADAEC starts collecting data from the corresponding data producers
based on subscription. Such data can be about the RTT, throughput, jitter, QoE
measurements, QoS profile load, etc. It can be also possible that VAL client
provides to ADAEC application data related to the UE expected route/trajectory
and VAL application traffic schedule / expected session time.**
**9\. The ADAEC** filters or correlates the data based on the analytics event
and the data collection configuration.
**10\. When the VAL UE session finishes, the ADAEC (optionally) derives VAL
session analytics to ADAES on VAL UE #1 performance, based on the analytics ID
and type of request. Such analytics (if performed at the ADAEC can be stats or
predictions on the RTT or RTT deviation, average/peak throughput, av. jitter,
QoE measurements (MOS, stalling events, buffer related events), QoS profile
load, VAL application traffic load etc. In case of prediction, a confidence
level shall be also present and a time horizon for the predicted parameters.**
**11\. The ADAEC sends the data of step 8 or the analytics of step 9 (if ADAEC
performs analytics) to the ADAES**.
12\. The ADAES derives application layer analytics on VAL session performance
(based on the data or analytics received by the ADAEC), based on the analytics
ID and type of request. Such analytics can be stats or prediction for a given
area/time and based on the event type for a given network configuration.
**Such analytics (if no analytics is performed at ADAEC) at ADAES can be stats
or predictions on the RTT or RTT deviation, average/peak throughput, av.
jitter, QoE measurements, QoS profile load, VAL application traffic load etc.
In case of prediction, a confidence level shall be also present and a time
horizon for the predicted parameters.**
**13\. The ADAES sends the analytics to the consumer, where these analytics
include the VAL UE #1 session predicted performance for a given area and time
horizon, including also the confidence level, whether offline/online analytics
were used.**
### 8.2.4 Information flows
#### 8.2.4.1 General
The following information flows are specified for VAL performance analytics
based on 8.2.2 and 8.2.3.
#### 8.2.4.2 VAL performance analytics subscription request
Table 8.2.4.2-1 describes information elements for the VAL performance
analytics subscription request from the VAL server / Consumer to the ADAE
server or from ADAE server to ADAE client.
Table 8.2.4.2-1: VAL performance analytics subscription request
Information element Status Description
* * *
Consumer ID M The identifier of the analytics consumer Analytics ID M The
identifier of the analytics event. This ID can be for example "VAL server
performance analytics" for procedure in 8.2.2, or "VAL session performance
analytics" for procedure in 8.2.3. Analytics filter information M Filter
information for the analytics event Analytics type M Whether analytics event
is about prediction or statistics VAL service ID M The identifier of the VAL
service for which analytics subscription apply Target VAL UE ID(s) O The VAL
UE(s) for which the analytics subscription applies Target VAL server ID O If
consumer is different from the VAL server, this identifier shows the target
VAL server for which the analytics subscription applies (for procedure in
8.2.2) Target data producer profile criteria O Characteristics of the data
producers to be used. Preferred confidence level O The level of accuracy for
the analytics service (in case of prediction. Area of Interest O The
geographical or service area for which the subscription request applies Time
validity O The time validity of the request
#### 8.2.4.3 VAL performance analytics subscription response
Table 8.2.4.3-1 describes information elements for the VAL performance
analytics subscription response from the ADAE server to the consumer/VAL
server or from ADAE client to ADAE server.
Table 8.2.4.3-1: VAL performance analytics subscription response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Result M The result of the analytics subscription request (positive or
negative acknowledgement).
#### 8.2.4.4 Data collection subscription request
Table 8.2.4.4-1 describes information elements for the Data collection
subscription request from the ADAE server to the Data Producer (e.g., A-DCCF).
Table 8.2.4.4-1: Data collection subscription request
Information element Status Description
* * *
ADAE server ID M The identifier of the ADAE server Data Collection Event ID M
The identifier of the data collection event Data Collection requirements M The
requirements for data collection, including the format of data, frequency of
reporting, level of abstraction of data, level of accuracy of data. Analytics
ID O The identifier of the analytics event, for which the data collection is
needed. List of Data Producer IDs O In case when this request is performed via
A-DCCF, then the list of Data Producer IDs is needed Target VAL UE ID(s) and
address O The VAL UE(s) identifiers and IP address(es) for which the data
collection subscription apply Target VAL server ID O This identifier shows the
target VAL server for which the data collection subscription applies (for
procedure in 8.2.2) Target data producer profile criteria O Characteristics of
the data producers to be used. Area of Interest O The geographical or service
area for which the requirement request applies Time validity O The time
validity of the request
#### 8.2.4.5 Data collection subscription response
Table 8.2.4.5-1 describes information elements for the Data collection
subscription response from the Data Producer (e.g., A-DCCF) to the ADAE
server.
Table 8.2.4.5-1: Data collection subscription response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Result M The result of the data collection subscription request (positive or
negative acknowledgement)
#### 8.2.4.6 Data Notification
Table 8.2.4.6-1 describes information elements for the Data Notification from
the Data Producer to the ADAE server.
Table 8.2.4.6-1: Data notification
Information element Status Description
* * *
Data Collection Event ID M The identifier of the data collection event. Target
VAL UE ID and address M (NOTE) The VAL UE(s) identifiers and IP address(es)
for which the data apply Target VAL server ID M (NOTE) This identifier of the
target VAL server for which the data applies (for procedure in 8.2.2)
Analytics ID O The identifier of the analytics event. This ID can be for
example "VAL server performance analytics" for procedure in 8.2.2, or "VAL
session performance analytics" for procedure in 8.2.3. Data Type O The type of
reported data samples which can be UE data, network data, application data,
edge data, or different granularities / abstraction of data (e.g. real time,
non real time). Data Output M The reported data, which can be inform of
measurements or offline/historical data on the requested parameter (e.g. RTT
deviation) based on subscription NOTE: One of these shall be present based on
the data collection event
#### 8.2.4.7 Analytics Notification
Table 8.2.4.7-1 describes information elements for the Analytics Notification
from the ADAE server to the VAL server / Consumer.
Table 8.2.4.7-1: Analytics notification
+---------------------+--------+-------------------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +=====================+========+=====================================+ | Analytics ID | M | The identifier of the analytics | | | | event. This ID can be for example | | | | "VAL server performance analytics" | | | | for procedure in 8.2.2, or "VAL | | | | session performance analytics" for | | | | procedure in 8.2.3. | +---------------------+--------+-------------------------------------+ | Analytics Type | O | The type of analytics based on the | | | | event, which can be offline or | | | | online analytics, ML-enabled | | | | analytics, statistics, or | | | | predictive analytics. | +---------------------+--------+-------------------------------------+ | Analytics Output | M | The predictive or statistical | | | | parameter, which can be: | | | | | | | | - A VAL server predicted or | | | | expected performance change or | | | | sustainability | | | | | | | | - A VAL session predicted or | | | | expected performance change of | | | | sustainability | +---------------------+--------+-------------------------------------+ | Confidence level | O | For predictive analytics, the | | | | achieved confidence level can be | | | | provided. | +---------------------+--------+-------------------------------------+
#### 8.2.4.8 Data producer profile
The data producer profile IE includes information about the data
generation/production capability of the data producer to support data
collection for data analytics service and the availability/accessibility of
the generated/produced data, as defined in Table 8.2.4.8-1.
Table 8.2.4.8-1: Data producer profile
+---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | **Information element** | **Status** | **Description** | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Data Producer ID | M | ID of the data producer | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Data producer type (NOTE) | M | Specifies the type of the | | | | data producer, e.g. | | | | .ADAEC, A-DCCF, VAL | | | | server, SEAL server, SEAL | | | | client, EES, EAS, etc. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Data type (NOTE) | M | Type of information that | | | | can be provided by the | | | | data producer, e.g., | | | | performance indicators, | | | | reproducer usage data, | | | | server load data, | | | | application performance, | | | | edge load, etc. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Data producer role (NOTE) | O | Role of the data | | | | producer, e.g., | | | | generating entity, | | | | original producer, | | | | repository. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Original producer ID | O | If the data producer role | | (NOTE) | | is not "original | | | | producer" or "generating | | | | entity", specifies the | | | | Producer ID of the | | | | original data producer | | | | for the data provided by | | | | this data producer. | | | | | | | | If the data producer type | | | | is A-DCCF, this is a list | | | | of Data Producer IDs. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Data freshness (NOTE) | O | If the data producer role | | | | is not "original | | | | producer" or "generating | | | | entity", length of time | | | | elapsed after the data is | | | | generated until is | | | | available at the data | | | | producer. Alternatively, | | | | the data collection rate | | | | supported by the producer | | | | is provided | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Data producer capability | O | Indicates data producer | | (NOTE) | | capabilities for this | | | | data type, e.g. how long | | | | the data can be stored, | | | | support for | | | | anonymization, data | | | | generation rate and | | | | schedule | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | NOTE: When the Data | | | | producer profile IE is | | | | used for Target data | | | | producer profile criteria | | | | (e.g. Table 8.2.4.4-1), | | | | this IE may be a list of | | | | values. | | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+
## 8.3 Procedure on support for slice-specific application performance
analytics
### 8.3.1 General
This clause describes the procedure for supporting slice-tailored application
performance analytics. The ADAES service consumer can subscribe and receive
notifications about slice specific application performance analytics events.
In case that the ADAES consumer needs information about historical data, the
procedure in 8.7.3 can be used for retrieving of slice -specific application
performance metrics data about a specific area and time window in the past.
### 8.3.2 Procedure
Figure 8.3.2-1 illustrates the procedure where the VAL server performance
analytics are performed based on data collected from the ongoing VAL sessions
as well as data from the DN (VAL server, DN database or networking stack at
DN) for a specific slice.
Pre-conditions:
1\. ADAEC is connected to ADAES.
Figure 8.3.2-1: ADAES support for slice-related performance analytics
1\. The consumer of the ADAES analytics service sends a subscription request
to ADAES and provides the analytics event ID e.g. \"slice perf prediction\",
the target S-NSSAI, DNN, NSI ID, the time validity and area of the request,
the required confidence level, whether offline and/or online analytics are
needed etc.
2\. The ADAES sends a subscription response as an ACK to the consumer.
**3\. The ADAES subscribes to the Data Sources with the respective Data
Collection Event ID and the requirement for data collection related to the
request slice(s). Such requests can be towards:**
\- OAM for providing PM data related to the requested slice / NSI.
Alternatively, if the interaction to OAM happens via NSCE layer (see TS 23.435
[6]), such subscription can be performed to NSCE (where ADAES is acting as VAL
server).
\- NWDAF for providing slice related analytics for the given area and time
horizon (indicated in step 1). Such analytics can be the slice load level
related network data analytics, or the service experience related network data
analytics for a given slice
4\. The ADAES based on subscription, receives PM data notification from OAM or
from NSCE (via OAM APIs or NSCE-S APIs)
5\. The ADAES based on subscription, receives the requested NWDAF analytics
outputs. Such analytics can be:
\- network slice or NSI statistics or predictions (clause 6.3.3 of TS 23.288
[4])
\- per slice instance service experience stats or predictions (clause 6.4.3 of
TS 23.288 [4])
6\. The ADAES can also provide analytics on the VAL session performance (based
on the procedure of clause 8.2.2 step 11 or clause 8.2.3 step 12) and filters
the analytics only for the sessions which are connected to that requested
slice for the area of interest.
7\. The ADAES abstracts or correlates the data/analytics from steps 4-6 and
provides analytics on the slice or NSI performance for the the target VAL
application/server. For example, such analytics can be about the
min/average/max predicted RTT / end to end latency for the VAL
application/server if this server uses a given slice/NSI (or for a list of
given slices) within an area of interest.
8**.** The ADAES sends the analytics to the consumer, as a slice-specific
performance analytics notification message.
### 8.3.3 Information flows
#### 8.3.3.1 General
The following information flows are specified for slice-specific application
performance analytics based on 8.3.2.
#### 8.3.3.2 Slice-specific performance analytics subscription request
Table 8.3.3.2-1 describes information elements for the slice-specific
performance analytics subscription request from the consumer (VAL server /
NSCE server) to the ADAE server.
Table 8.3.3.2-1: Slice-specific performance analytics subscription request
Information element Status Description
* * *
Consumer ID M The identifier of the analytics consumer Analytics ID M The
identifier of the analytics event. This ID can be for example "slice-specific
application performance analytics" Analytics filter information M Filter
information for the analytics event Analytics type M Whether analytics event
is about prediction or statistics Slice identifier M The identifier of the
target slice or slice instance, i.e. S-NSSAI, NSI ID or ENSI. DNN O The target
DNN for which the request applies Target VAL UE ID(s) O The VAL UE(s) for
which the analytics subscription applies Target VAL server ID O If consumer is
different from the VAL server, this identifier shows the target VAL server for
which the analytics subscription applies (for procedure in 8.2.2) Preferred
confidence level O The level of accuracy for the analytics service (in case of
prediction. Area of Interest O The geographical or service area for which the
subscription request applies Time validity O The time validity of the request
#### 8.3.3.3 Slice-specific performance analytics subscription response
Table 8.3.3.3-1 describes information elements for the slice-specific
performance analytics subscription response from the ADAE server to the
consumer (VAL/NSCE server).
Table 8.3.3.3-1: Slice-specific performance analytics subscription response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Result M The result of the analytics subscription request (positive or
negative acknowledgement)
#### 8.3.3.4 Slice-specific performance analytics notification
Table 8.3.3.4-1 describes information elements for the slice-specific
performance analytics notification from the ADAE server to the Consumer.
Table 8.3.3.4-1: Slice-specific performance analytics notification
+---------------------+--------+-------------------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +=====================+========+=====================================+ | Analytics ID | M | The identifier of the analytics | | | | event. This ID can be for example | | | | "slice-specific application | | | | performance analytics" | +---------------------+--------+-------------------------------------+ | Analytics Type | O | The type of analytics based on the | | | | event, which can be offline or | | | | online analytics, ML-enabled | | | | analytics, statistics, or | | | | predictive analytics. | +---------------------+--------+-------------------------------------+ | Analytics Output | M | The predictive or statistical | | | | parameter, which can be for a | | | | target slice or slice instance the: | | | | | | | | - A VAL server predicted or | | | | expected performance change or | | | | sustainability | | | | | | | | - A VAL session predicted or | | | | expected performance change of | | | | sustainability | +---------------------+--------+-------------------------------------+ | Confidence level | O | For predictive analytics, the | | | | achieved confidence level can be | | | | provided. | +---------------------+--------+-------------------------------------+
## 8.4 Procedure on support for UE-to-UE application performance analytics
### 8.4.1 General
This clause describes the procedure for supporting UE-to-UE application
performance analytics.
### 8.4.2 Procedure
Figure 8.4.2-1 illustrates the procedure where the VAL session performance
analytics are performed based on data collected from the ongoing VAL UE-to-UE
sessions.
Pre-conditions:
1\. ADAECs are connected to ADAES.
Figure 8.4.2-1: ADAES support for VAL session performance analytics
> 1\. The consumer of the ADAES analytics service sends a subscription request
> to ADAES and provides the analytics event ID e.g. \"VAL UE to UE session
> prediction\", the target VAL UE ID or group of UE IDs, the VAL session /
> service ID, the time validity and area of the request, the required
> confidence level, exposure level for providing UE to UE analytics. Such
> request can also include whether the analytics notification shall be
> periodic or based on an expected application QoS change (in that case also
> the thresholds can be provided at the request)
>
> 2\. The ADAES sends a subscription response as an ACK to the consumer.
>
> **3\. The ADAES selects the corresponding ADAEC #1 of the VAL UE 1 where the
> session performance analytics need to be performed. Such UE can be for
> example a capable and authorized UE from the involved VAL UEs within the
> service or group, e.g. a group lead.**
>
> **4\. The ADAES sends a UE to UE analytics request to the ADAEC #1 with the
> analytics event ID and the configuration of the reporting required (e.g.,
> periodic, based on threshold or event). Such request also includes the
> application QoS attributes to be analyzed (latency, jitter, PER,..)A session
> starts between the VAL UE #1 and a VAL UE #2 (or more VAL UEs).**
>
> **5\. The ADAEC #1 starts collecting data from the corresponding VAL UE(s)
> based on the request. Such data can be about the latency, throughput,
> jitter, QoE measurements, PQI load, etc. The data can be collected by ADAEC
> #1 from other ADAECs via ADAE-C interface, or from the VAL clients (VAL
> client to VAL client interaction is out of scope).**
>
> **6\. The ADAEC** either detects or predicts an application QoS change
> (depending on the authorization of ADAEC to perform analytics). Such change
> can be for example an application QoS downgrade related to the UE-to-UE
> session latency, or the PER/channel losses higher than a predefined
> threshold, for a given time horizon with a certain confidence level.
>
> **7\. The ADAEC sends the analytics to the ADAES in a UE-to-UE analytics
> response message**.
>
> 8\. The ADAES based on the received response, confirms/verifies the
> analytics received or provides analytics (in case that data were reported)
> for the UE-to-UE session. Such analytics can be about predicting the
> application QoS change for the UE-to-UE session.
>
> 9**.** The ADAES sends the derived analytics notification to the consumer.
NOTE: The mechanism for analytics collection from the UE side (steps 4, 7)
shall align with the SA4 mechanism for generic data collection from the UE (TS
26.531 [3]).
### 8.4.3 Information flows
#### 8.4.3.1 General
The following information flows are specified for UE-to-UE session performance
analytics based on 8.4.2
#### 8.4.3.2 UE-to-UE session performance analytics subscription request
Table 8.4.3.2-1 describes information elements for the UE-to-UE session
performance analytics subscription request from the consumer (VAL server) to
the ADAE server.
Table 8.4.3.2-1: UE-to-UE session performance analytics subscription request
Information element Status Description
* * *
VAL server ID M The identifier of the analytics consumer (VAL server)
Analytics ID M The identifier of the analytics event. This ID can be
equivalent to "UE-to-UE session performance analytics" Analytics filter
information M Filter information for the analytics event Analytics type M
Whether analytics event is about prediction or statistics List of VAL UE IDs
and addresses M The VAL UEs for which the analytics subscription applies VAL
service ID O The VAL service for which the subscription applies Preferred
confidence level O The level of accuracy for the analytics service (in case of
prediction. Area of Interest O The geographical or service area for which the
subscription request applies Time validity O The time validity of the request
#### 8.4.3.3 UE-to-UE session performance analytics subscription response
Table 8.4.3.3-1 describes information elements for the UE-to-UE session
performance analytics subscription response from the ADAE server to the VAL
server.
Table 8.4.3.3-1: UE-to-UE session performance analytics subscription response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Result M The result of the analytics subscription request (positive or
negative acknowledgement)
#### 8.4.3.4 UE-to-UE analytics request
Table 8.4.3.4-1 describes information elements for the UE-to-UE Analytics
request from the ADAE server to the ADAE client.
Table 8.4.3.4-1: UE-to-UE analytics request
Information element Status Description
* * *
ADAE server ID M The identifier of the ADAE server Analytics ID M The
identifier of the analytics event (Analytics ID='UE to UE session analytics').
List of VAL UE IDs and addresses M The VAL UE(s) identifiers and IP
address(es) for which the data/analytics apply Application QoS attributes M
The QoS attributes (latency, rate, PER,..) to be analyzed at the ADAE client.
Reporting configuration O The configuration of analytics reporting including
the format, frequency of analytics report, data collection requirements,
abstraction needed, etc Area of Interest O The geographical or service area
for which the subscription request applies Time validity O The time validity
of the request
#### 8.4.3.5 UE-to-UE analytics response
Table 8.4.3.5-1 describes information elements for the UE-to-UE analytics
response from the ADAE client to the ADAE server.
Table 8.4.3.5-1: UE-to-UE analytics response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Analytics ID M The identifier of the analytics event. List of VAL UE IDs and
addresses M The VAL UE(s) identifiers and IP address(es) for which the
analytics apply Analytics Output M The reported analytics for the UE to UE
sessions, which can be in form of offline stats/historical data or predictions
on the requested QoS parameter based on the analytics event.
#### 8.4.3.6 ADAE Analytics Notification
Table 8.4.3.6-1 describes information elements for the ADAE Analytics
Notification from the ADAE server to the VAL server / Consumer.
Table 8.4.3.6-1: ADAE Analytics notification
+---------------------+--------+-------------------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +=====================+========+=====================================+ | Analytics ID | M | The identifier of the analytics | | | | event. This ID can be "UE to UE | | | | session performance analytics" | +---------------------+--------+-------------------------------------+ | Analytics Type | O | The type of analytics based on the | | | | event, which can be offline or | | | | online analytics, ML-enabled | | | | analytics, statistics, or | | | | predictive analytics. | +---------------------+--------+-------------------------------------+ | Analytics Output | M | The predictive or statistical | | | | parameter, which can be: | | | | | | | | - A VAL UE to UE session predicted | | | | or expected performance change | | | | | | | | - A VAL UE to UE session | | | | performance sustainability over a | | | | given time horizon/area | +---------------------+--------+-------------------------------------+ | Confidence level | O | For predictive analytics, the | | | | achieved confidence level can be | | | | provided. | +---------------------+--------+-------------------------------------+
## 8.5 Procedure on support for location accuracy analytics
### 8.5.1 General
This clause describes the procedure for supporting location accuracy
analytics.
### 8.5.2 Procedure
Figure 8.5.2-1 illustrates the procedure for location accuracy analytics
enablement solution.
Pre-conditions:
1\. ADAES is connected to A-ADRF.
2\. ADAES has discovered SEAL LMS or FLS.
Figure 8.5.2-1: Location accuracy analytics procedure
1\. The VAL server makes a subscription request to ADAE server for location
accuracy prediction/stats, including an analytics event ID (e.g. \"location
accuracy prediction\" or \"location accuracy sustainability\"), an analytics
request type (if not identified specifically at the event ID) which can be the
location accuracy prediction for a given location X and/or for a given UE/app.
The request may include also the target area, a target VAL service, or a VAL
UE, group of UEs or the VAL service, time of day, accuracy threshold and
requirements. If the VAL UEs are provided by the VAL server, this request may
also include the expected route or a set of waypoints for the UEs of the VAL
application.
2\. The ADAE server sends a location accuracy analytics subscription response
as an ACK to the VAL server.
**3\. The** ADAE server **discovers and maps the Data Sources with the
respective analytics event ID for collecting location data for the
corresponding VAL UEs or VAL service or area.**
**4\. The** ADAE server **subscribes for NWDAF UE mobility analytics per VAL
UE (for all the VAL UEs) and gets notification on the per UE location/mobility
analytics based on TS 23.288 clause 6.7.2. Such analytics may be requested for
a list of waypoints per UE route (if indicated at step 1). The** ADAE server
**subscribes also for SEAL LMS location reports for the respective VAL UEs or
location reports from all VAL UEs within the requested area.**
**5\. The** ADAE server **optionally requests and receive location accuracy
historical analytics /data from A-ADRF for the corresponding VAL UEs or VAL
service area.**
**6\. Based on the request, the** ADAE server **receives location accuracy
historical analytics /data from A-ADRF for the corresponding VAL UEs or VAL
service area.**
**7\. The** ADAE server **abstracts or correlates the data/analytics from
steps 4-6 and provides analytics on the location accuracy for the target VAL
application**. Depending on the event ID in step 1, the **ADAE server can
indicate whether the location accuracy is sustainable or is predicted to be
downgraded or can be upgraded and become more granular (e.g. from meter to
decimetre)**.
8\. The ADAE server sends the location accuracy analytics notification to the
consumer.
### 8.5.3 Information flows
#### 8.5.3.1 General
The following information flows are specified for location accuracy analytics
based on 8.5.2
#### 8.5.3.2 Location accuracy analytics subscription request
Table 8.5.3.2-1 describes information elements for the location accuracy
analytics subscription request from the VAL server to the ADAE server.
Table 8.5.3.2-1: Location accuracy analytics subscription request
Information element Status Description
* * *
VAL server ID M The identifier of the VAL server Analytics ID M The identifier
of the location accuracy analytics event. This ID can be for example
\"location accuracy prediction\" or \"location accuracy sustainability\"
depending on the expected outcome Analytics filter information M Filter
information for the analytics event Analytics type M Whether analytics event
is about prediction or statistics, and whether analytics are offline / online.
VAL UE ID(s) or Group ID M The identity of the VAL UE(s) or group of UEs for
which the analytics subscription applies VAL service ID O The identifier of
the V2X service for which location accuracy analytics is requested Location
accuracy requirements M The accuracy threshold and VAL requirements Preferred
confidence level O The level of accuracy for the analytics service (in case of
prediction). Area of Interest O The geographical or service area for which the
subscription request applies Time validity O The time validity of the request
UE mobility / route information O Information on the target UE or group UE
mobility including the expected route/set of waypoints
#### 8.5.3.3 Location accuracy analytics subscription response
Table 8.5.3.3-1 describes information elements for the location accuracy
analytics subscription response from the ADAE server to the VAL server.
Table 8.5.3.3-1: Location accuracy analytics subscription response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Result M The result of the analytics subscription request (positive or
negative acknowledgement)
#### 8.5.3.4 Location accuracy data request
Table 8.5.3.4-1 describes information elements for the location accuracy data
request from the ADAE server to the A-ADRF.
Table 8.5.3.4-1: Location accuracy data request
Information element Status Description
* * *
ADAE server ID M The identifier of the ADAE server Analytics ID M The
identifier of the analytics event List of VAL UE IDs and addresses M The VAL
UE(s) identifiers and IP address(es) for which the data/analytics apply VAL
service ID O The service ID, in case of requesting historical data for a
particular VAL service. Reporting configuration O The configuration of data
reporting including the format, data collection requirements, abstraction
needed, etc Area of Interest O The geographical or service area for which the
subscription request applies Time validity O The time validity of the request
#### 8.5.3.5 Location accuracy data response
Table 8.5.3.5-1 describes information elements for the location accuracy data
response from the A-ADRF to the ADAE server.
Table 8.5.3.5-1: Location accuracy data response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Analytics ID M The identifier of the analytics event. List of VAL UE IDs and
addresses M The VAL UE(s) identifiers and IP address(es) for which the
analytics apply VAL service ID O The service ID, in case of requesting
historical data for a particular VAL service. Analytics Output M The reported
analytics for the location accuracy, which can be in form of offline
stats/historical data for a specific VAL service or for particular UE(s) or
group of UEs
#### 8.5.3.6 Location accuracy analytics notification
Table 8.5.3.6-1 describes information elements for the location accuracy
analytics notification from the ADAE server to the VAL server.
Table 8.5.3.6-1: Location accuracy analytics notification
+---------------------+--------+-------------------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +=====================+========+=====================================+ | Analytics ID | M | The identifier of the analytics | | | | event. | +---------------------+--------+-------------------------------------+ | Analytics Type | O | The type of analytics based on the | | | | event, which can be offline or | | | | online analytics, ML-enabled | | | | analytics, statistics, or | | | | predictive analytics. | +---------------------+--------+-------------------------------------+ | Analytics Output | M | The predictive or statistical | | | | parameter, which can be: | | | | | | | | - A predicted or expected location | | | | accuracy change (downgrade or | | | | upgrade) for a particular VAL | | | | service or UEs | | | | | | | | - the location accuracy | | | | sustainability for a VAL service or | | | | UE/group of UEs over a given time | | | | horizon/area | +---------------------+--------+-------------------------------------+ | Confidence level | O | For predictive analytics, the | | | | achieved confidence level can be | | | | provided. | +---------------------+--------+-------------------------------------+
## 8.6 Procedure for supporting service API analytics
### 8.6.1 General
This clause describes the procedure for supporting service API analytics. Such
analytics can be for one or more service APIs for a service produced by one or
more service producers within the 5GS or enablement layer or the DN side
(e.g., application server).
### 8.6.2 Procedure
Figure 8.6.2-1 illustrates the procedure for service API analytics enablement
solution.
Pre-conditions:
1\. ADAES is registered to CCF
Figure 8.6.2 -1: Service API analytics procedure
1\. The subscribing entity (VAL server / API invoker, API provider) sends a
service API event subscription request to the ADAE server to receive analytics
for one or more service APIs.
2\. Upon receiving the event subscription request from the subscribing entity,
the ADAE server checks for the relevant authorization for the event
subscription. If the authorization is successful, the ADAE server stores the
subscription information.
3\. The ADAE server sends a service API event subscription response indicating
successful subscription
4\. Upon sending the subscription response, the ADAE server requests to
collect API logs to be used to derive analytics and triggers API invocation
log pull request towards the CAPIF core function. The API invocation log fetch
request indicates the API (or list of APIs) for which logs are required. Based
on the ADAE server deployment, this can be a Query service API log request
which is performed via CAPIF_Auditing API as specified in 3GPP TS 23.222 [8].
5\. The CCF authorizes the request and fetches the API logs from the storage
unit. CCF then sends the requested information to the ADAE server via a query
service API log response
6\. The ADAES may also request service API historical analytics /data from
A-ADRF for the corresponding service APIs.
7\. Based on the request, the ADAES receives historical analytics/data for the
service APIs.
8\. The ADAE server authorizes and anonymizes the API logs (if not performed
by CCF) and abstracts based on exposure level. The exposure level can be known
based on pre-configuration by the OAM or based on the subscription and type of
invoker. The ADAE server then derives analytics on the target service API(s)
based on the logs received from the CCF. Such analytics are predictions/stats
for the API status based on the analytics event.
9\. The ADAE server sends the analytics as event notifications to all the
subscribing entities that have subscribed for the event matching the criteria.
If a notification reception information is available as part of the
subscribing entity event subscription, then the notification reception
information is used by the ADAE server to send event notifications to the
subscribing entity.
### 8.6.3 Information flows
#### 8.6.3.1 General
The following information flows are specified for service API analytics based
on 8.6.2.
#### 8.6.3.2 Service API event subscription request
Table 8.6.3.2-1 describes information elements for the service API event
subscription request from the consumer (VAL server, API provider) to the ADAE
server.
Table 8.6.3.2-1: Service API event subscription request
Information element Status Description
* * *
Consumer ID M The information to determine the identity of the subscribing
entity (consumer) Service API information M The service API name or type
Analytics ID and criteria M The event criteria include event type information
relevant to the prediction or stats on the number of failure API invocations,
API availability, frequency and occurrence of API version changes, API
location changes for the target API, etc Time Validity and horizon O Time
validity of the request and time horizon for the predictions Area of interest
O Geographical or topological area for which the subscription applies
Notification reception information O The information of the subscribing entity
for receiving the notifications for the event.
#### 8.6.3.3 Service API event subscription response
Table 8.6.3.3-1 describes information elements for the service API event
subscription response to the consumer (VAL server, API provider) from the ADAE
server.
Table 8.6.3.3-1: Service API event subscription response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Result M The result of the analytics subscription request (positive or
negative acknowledgement)
#### 8.6.3.4 Historical service API logs request
Table 8.6.3.4-1 describes information elements for the historical service API
logs request from the ADAE server to the A-ADRF.
Table 8.6.3.4-1: Historical service API logs request
Information element Status Description
* * *
Service API log requestor information M Identity information of the originated
application querying service API log request ADAES ID M Identity information
of the ADAES Service ID or UE ID M Identity of the application service or UE
for which the historical API invocations apply Target API(s) information M
Information on target API or list of target APIs (name or type) >Query
information O List of query filters such as invoker\'s ID and IP address,
service API name and version, input parameters, and invocation result > API
aggregation abstraction flag O What type of aggregation or
abstraction/filtering needs to be applied Reporting format configuration O The
logs reporting configuration (frequency, periodicity etc) Area of validity O
The geographical area for which the request applies Time validity O The time
validity for the request Exposure level requirement O The level of exposure
requirement (e.g. permissions on the logs like read/write/delete..) for the
logs to be exposed
#### 8.6.3.5 Historical service API logs response
Table 8.6.3.5-1 describes information elements for the historical service API
logs response to the ADAE server from the A-ADRF.
Table 8.6.3.5-1: Historical service API logs response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Result M Identity information of the originated application querying service
API log request Service ID or UE ID M Identity of the application service or
UE for which the API invocations apply Target API (s) information M The target
service API name or type >Target API(s) logs M The API logs based on the
subscription event. This may include the number of failure API invocations,
API availability, frequency and occurrence of API version changes, API
location changes for the target API, API throttling events, number of API
invocations for a given area and time etc >Reporting info O The time and area
for which the reporting applies
#### 8.6.3.6 Service API analytics notification
Table 8.6.3.5-1 describes information elements for the service API analytics
notification to the subscriber/consumer from the ADAE server.
Table 8.6.3.6-1: Service API analytics notification
Information element Status Description
* * *
Consumer ID M The information to determine the identity of the subscribing
entity (consumer) Service API information M The service API name or type for
which analytics apply Analytics ID M The analytics ID or event ID for which
service API analytics is performed Analytics Output M Stats or predictions
based on abstracted or anonymized API logs (for example number of failure API
invocations, API availability, frequency and occurrence of API version
changes, API location changes for the target API, API throttling events,
number of API invocations for a given area and time, API load statistics for a
given edge network, etc) Confidence level O For predictive analytics, the
achieved confidence level can be provided. Area of validity O Geographical or
topological area for which the analytics apply.
## 8.7 Slice usage pattern analytics
### 8.7.1 General
This clause provides a procedure for network slice usage pattern analytics
based on collected network slice performance and analytics, historical network
slice status, and network performance. The analytics consumer can be either
the VAL server or other analytics consumers such as SEAL NSCE server.
### 8.7.2 Procedure on slice usage pattern analytics
Figure 8.7.2-1 illustrates the procedure for network slice usage pattern
analytics.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The ADAES is registered and capable of interacting with 5GS to collected
network slice data.
Figure 8.7.2-1: procedure for network slice usage pattern analytics
> 1\. The analytics consumer of the ADAES sends a subscription request to
> ADAES and provides the target S-NSSAI, DNN, area of the interest, interest
> time period of the historical data (e.g., last year), the required
> confidence level, whether offline and/or online analytic are needed etc.
> Optionally, the slice requirement could also be provided.
>
> 2\. The ADAES sends a subscription response to the analytics consumer.
>
> **3\. The ADAES subscribes to the Data Sources with the respective Data
> Collection Event ID and the requirement for data collection related to the
> request slice(s). Such requests can be sent to OAM, NWDAF or the combination
> of them.**
>
> **4\. Based on subscription, the ADAES may receive Network slice related**
> Observed Service experience statistics, Load level information of a Network
> Slice defined from NWDAF via NEF as defined in TS 23.288 [4].
>
> 5\. **Based on subscription, the ADAES may receive Network slice / NSI**
> related performance data from OAM as defined in TS 28.552 [7] and the alarms
> of network slice instances from OAM system via the procedures defined in
> clause 6.1, TS 28.545[12]**.**
>
> **6\. If the data is collected from multiple sources, the ADAES combines or
> correlates the data/analytics from steps 3-5 and stores the data into A-ADRF
> if needed.**
>
> **7\. The ADAES server sends the** network slice data retrieval **request to
> collect the historical data from A-ADRF.**
>
> **8\. The A-ADRF provides** network slice **historical data to the ADAES.**
>
> **9\. The ADAES analyzes the network slice usage pattern based on the**
> network slice **historical data and collected slice performance. When the
> stored historical data does not cover the required** interest time period of
> the historical data**, ADAES analyzes the slice usage pattern based on the
> existing stored historical data.**
>
> 10**.** The ADAES sends the network slice usage pattern analytics
> notification to the analytics consumer.
### 8.7.3 Procedure on retrieving slice usage statistics data
In the procedure shown in Figure 8.7.3-1, a mechanism is provided to allow for
vertical/ASP using VAL server, NSCE server to initiate request for retrieving
of statistics data and receive all the historical data for a specific time
window**.**
Pre-conditions:
1\. Enterprise hosting the VAL server or NSCE server has SLA for analytics
services with ADAES service provider.
2\. The VAL server or NSCE server has subscribed to slice usage patterns
analytics from ADAES, and statistics are available.
3\. The VAL server or NSCE server has identified there is specific statistics
data needed in a specific time window.
Figure 8.7.3-1: Retrieving of slice usage statistics data procedure
1\. The VAL server sends to ADAES server a slice usage statistics data request
containing information about specific time and needed statistics parameters.
2\. ADAES server, based on the input in step 1, determines the needed
analytics ID and data producer IDs, slice metrics for a specific slice area
and specific period of time and uses the network slice data retrieval request
to request the needed data from the A-ADRF.
3\. A-ADRF sends back the network slice data retrieval response with the
required information from its database.
> 4\. The ADAES sends slice usage statistics data reply to VAL server, NSCE
> server.
### 8.7.4 Information flows
#### 8.7.4.1 General
The following information flows are specified for network slice usage pattern
analytics based on 8.7.2.
#### 8.7.4.2 Network slice usage pattern analytics subscription request
Table 8.7.4.2-1 describes information elements for the network slice usage
pattern analytics subscription request from the analytics consumer (VAL server
/ NSCE server) to the ADAE server.
Table 8.7.4.2-1: Network slice usage pattern analytics subscription request
Information element Status Description
* * *
Consumer ID M The identifier of the analytics consumer Analytics ID M The
identifier of the analytics event. This ID can be for example "Network slice
usage pattern analytics" Analytics type M Whether analytics is offline and/or
online Analytics filter information M Filter information for the analytics
event >Slice identifier M The identifier of the target slice or slice
instance, i.e. S-NSSAI. >Slice requirement O The requirement of network
requirements or updated requirements when the network slice was created. The
GST defined by GSMA (see clause 2.2 in [10]) and the performance requirements
defined in clause 7 TS 22.261 [11] are all considered as input for the network
slice related requirements. >DNN O The target DNN for which the request
applies >Target VAL UE ID(s) O The VAL UE(s) for which the analytics
subscription applies >Target VAL server ID O If consumer is different from the
VAL server, this identifier shows the target VAL server for which the
analytics subscription applies (for procedure in 8.2.2) >Area of Interest O
The geographical or service area for which the subscription request applies
Preferred confidence level O The level of accuracy for the analytics service
(in case of prediction. Time validity O The time validity of the request
Interest time period of the historical data O Interest time period of the
historical data (e.g. last year),
#### 8.7.4.3 Network slice usage pattern analytics subscription response
Table 8.7.4.3-1 describes information elements for the Network slice usage
pattern analytics subscription response from the ADAE server to the analytics
consumer (VAL/NSCE server).
Table 8.7.4.3-1: Network slice usage pattern analytics subscription response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Successful response (NOTE) O Indicates that the request was successful.
>Analytics ID M The identifier of the analytics event Failure response (NOTE)
O Indicates that the request failed. > Cause O Indicates the cause of request
failure NOTE: One of these IEs shall be present in the message.
#### 8.7.4.4 Network slice usage pattern analytics notification
Table 8.7.4.4-1 describes information elements for the network slice usage
pattern analytics notification from the ADAE server to the analytics Consumer.
Table 8.7.4.4-1: network slice usage pattern analytics notification
Information element Status Description
* * *
Analytics ID M The identifier of the analytics event. > Slice usage pattern
analytics M Analytics of network slice usage pattern(e.g., periodicity of
slice usage peak)
#### 8.7.4.5 Network slice data retrieval request
Table 8.7.4.5-1 describes information elements for the Network slice data
retrieval request from the ADAE server to the A-ADRF.
Table 8.7.4.5-1: Network slice data retrieval request
Information element Status Description
* * *
ADAE server ID M The identifier of the ADAE server Data Collection Event ID M
The identifier of the data collection event Network slice identifier M The
identifier of the interested network slice VAL service ID O The identifier of
the VAL service which is associated with network slice Data Collection
requirements M The requirements for data collection, including the format of
data, frequency of reporting, level of abstraction of data, level of accuracy
of data. Analytics ID O The identifier of the analytics event, for which the
data collection is needed. List of Data Producer IDs O In case when this
request is performed via A-DCCF, then the list of Data Producer IDs is needed
Target VAL UE ID(s) and address O The VAL UE(s) identifiers and IP address(es)
for which the data collection subscription apply Target VAL server ID O This
identifier shows the target VAL server for which the data collection
subscription applies Area of Interest O The geographical or service area for
which the requirement request applies Time validity O The time validity of the
request
#### 8.7.4.6 Network slice data retrieval response
Table 8.7.4.6-1 describes information elements for the Network slice data
retrieval response from the A-ADRF to the ADAE server.
Table 8.7.4.6-1: Network slice data retrieval response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Data Collection Event ID M The result of the data collection subscription
request (positive or negative acknowledgement) Network slice identifier M The
identifier of the interested network slice Target VAL UE ID and address O
(NOTE) The VAL UE(s) identifiers and IP address(es) for which the data apply
Target VAL server ID O (NOTE) This identifier of the target VAL server for
which the data applies Analytics ID O The identifier of the analytics event.
Data Type O The type of reported data samples which can be UE data, network
data, application data, edge data, or different granularities / abstraction of
data (e.g. real time, non real time). Data Output M The reported data, which
can be inform of measurements or offline/historical data on the requested
parameter (e.g. RTT deviation) based on subscription NOTE: One of these shall
be present based on the data collection event
#### **8.7.4.7 Slice usage statistics data request**
Table 8.7.4.7-1 describe information elements for the slice usage statistics
data reques**t** between the VAL server, NSCE server and the ADAES server.
Table 8.7.4.7-1: Slice usage statistics data reques**t**
Information element Status Description
* * *
Consumer ID M The identifier of the statistics consumer Slice usage statistics
data ID M Identifier of the slice usage data statistics, for which the data
collection is needed. > VAL service ID M Identifier of the VAL service for
which the request applies. > Network slice Identifier(s) M Identifier(s) of
the network slice for which the request applies. > Network slice related
parameters O Slice parameters statistics needed >DNN O The target DNN for
which the request applies > UE(s) related Identifier(s) O Identifier(s) of the
related UE(s). Area of Interest O The geographical or service area for which
the request applies. >StartTime M The start time point of the requested
statistics data. >EndTime M The end time point of the requested statistics
data.
#### **8.7.4.8 Slice usage statistics data response**
Table 8.7.4.8-1- describe information elements for the network slice
diagnostics request and response between the VAL server and the NSCE server.
Table 8.7.4.8-1: Slice usage statistics data response
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +============================+==========+============================+ | Result | M | Indicates the success or | | | | failure of slice usage | | | | pattern statistics data | | | | request. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Slice usage statistics | M | Identifier of the slice | | data ID | | usage data statistics, for | | | | which the data collection | | | | is needed. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Network slice identifier | M | The identifier of the | | | | interested network slice | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | >Data output | O | The reported data related | | | | to the network slice usage | | | (NOTE 1) | pattern statistics data | | | | request. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | >Cause | O | Indicates the cause of the | | | | slice usage pattern | | | (NOTE 2) | statistics data request | | | | failure. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | NOTE 1: Shall be present | | | | if the result is success. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Shall be present | | | | if the result is failure. | | | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
## 8.8 Procedure for supporting edge load analytics
### 8.8.1 General
This clause describes two procedures (covering both subscribe-notify and
request-response models in 8.8.2.1 and 8.8.2.2 respectively) for supporting
edge load analytics. where the edge analytics are performed based on data
collected from the EDN (EAS and/or EES) and A-ADRF.
### 8.8.2 Procedure
#### 8.8.2.1 Subscribe-notify model
Figure 8.8.2.1-1 illustrates the procedure for edge load analytics enablement
solution.
Pre-conditions:
1\. ADAES has discovered the APIs to access the edge services at EDN.
2\. ADAES has subscribed to OAM and NWDAF for receiving management and DN
performance analytics respectively.
3\. Data producers (e.g. A-ADRF, EAS, EES) may be pre-configured with data
producer profiles (as in Table 8.2.4.8-1) for the data they can provide. ADAES
and ADAEC have discovered available data producers and their data producer
profiles.
Figure 8.8.2.1-1: ADAES support for edge analytics
1\. The consumer of the ADAES analytics service sends an edge analytics
subscription request to ADAES.
2\. The ADAES sends an edge analytics subscription response as an ACK to the
analytics consumer.
**3\. The ADAES maps the analytics event ID to a list of data collection event
identifiers, and a list of data producer IDs. Such mapping may be
preconfigured by OAM or may be determined by ADAES based on the analytics
event ID and/or data producer profile (Table 8.2.4.8-1). Such Data Producers
can be EASs onboarded to EDN, EESs, A-ADRF, as well as MEC Platform
services.**
**4\. The ADAES sends a subscription request to the Data Producers (EASs
onboarded to EDN, EESs, A-ADRF, ADAEC) or the A-DCCF with the respective Data
Collection Event ID and the requirement for data collection.**
**5\. The Data Producers (e.g., EASs onboarded to EDN, EESs, A-ADRF, ADAEC) or
the A-DCCF send a subscription response as a positive or negative
acknowledgement to the ADAES.**
**6\. The ADAES based on subscription receive offline stats/data on the edge
DN load based on the analytics/data collection event ID from A-ADRF. Such
stats can be about the load in terms of number of EAS or EES connections for a
given area or time window, or the average edge computational resource usage or
usage ratio based on the EDN total resource availability, EDN overload/high
load indication events, probability of EAS/EES unavailability due to high
load, etc.**
**7\. The Data Producers at the edge start collecting data from the data
generating entities. Such data can be measurements or analytics based on the
data source/producer, as follows:**
\- from OAM or EAS/ASP (for EAS load info): Per EAS/EES computational resource
load, number of connections per EES/EAS
\- from N6 endpoint: N6 load
\- from 5GC / NWDAF: DN performance analytics
\- from OAM / MDAS: UPF load analytics (per DNAI)
\- from MEC platform services (e.g., RNIS): per cell radio conditions / load
for all cells within EDN coverage
NOTE 1: How the ADAES obtains the EAS load information from EAS/ASP is up to
implementation.
NOTE 2: Steps 6 and 7 are not necessarily sequential and can be performed in
parallel or in different order.
**8\. If in step 4 ADAES sent a subscription request to ADAEC as Data
Producer, data collection is initiated by ADAEC from UE data generating
entities.**
NOTE 3: Data collection at the UE reuses the SA4 mechanism based on EVEX study
(TS 26.531 [3]).
**9\. The edge Data Producers (targets of the subscription requests in step 4)
send the data to the ADAES (based on step 7 measurements or analytics) as a
data notification message. Such data can be about the load in terms of number
of EAS or EES connections for a given area or time window, or the average edge
computational resource usage or usage ratio based on the EDN total resource
availability, EDN overload/high load indication events, probability of EAS/EES
unavailability due to high load, etc.**
**10\. ADAEC sends data (periodically or if a threshold is reached based on
configuration) about the edge load as collected at the UE, e.g. in terms of
number of AC or EEC connections for a given UE in a given time window, number
of edge service sessions, etc.**
11\. The ADAES derives edge analytics on EDN / DNAI load or per EES/EAS load,
based on the analytics ID and type of request. The analytics are derived based
on the performance analytics received per DN or load analytics per DNAI/UPF;
as well as considering measurements on the computational or RAN resource load
or number of connections for the EES/EASs which are active at the EDN.
12**.** The ADAES sends the edge analytics to the consumer, based on the
request and the derived analytics in step 9. Such analytics indicate a
prediction of the EDN load considering inputs from both 5GS as well as from
edge platform services. Such prediction can also be in form of a
recommendation for triggering an EAS relocation to a different platform.
#### 8.8.2.2 Request-response model
Figure 8.8.2.2-1 illustrates the procedure for the analytics consumer to
request analytics data of the application server(s) from the ADAE server.
Figure 8.8.2.2-1: ADAES support for edge analytics
1\. The analytics consumer sends a request message to the ADAE server to
receive analytics data for one or more application servers. The request
message includes the identity of the analytics consumer, security
credential(s) for authorization and verification, identity of all the
application server for which analytics data is requested, type of analytics
data, time duration since when analytics data is required.
2\. Upon receiving the request, the ADAE server authenticates and authorizes
the analytics consumer. If the analytics consumer is authorized, the ADAE
server may get the analytics data by performing step 3 to 9 of clause 8.8.2.1.
The ADAE server sends a response message including the statistical and
predictive analytics data of the application servers for the requested
duration period (if the time duration is available).
### 8.8.3 Information flows
#### 8.8.3.1 General
The following information flows are specified for edge load analytics based on
8.8.2.
#### 8.8.3.2 Edge analytics subscription request
Table 8.8.3.2-1 describes information elements for the edge analytics
subscription request from the VAL server / Consumer to the ADAE server.
Table 8.8.3.2-1: Edge analytics subscription request
Information element Status Description
* * *
Analytics Consumer ID M The identifier of the analytics consumer (VAL server,
EAS,..) Analytics ID M The identifier of the analytics event. This ID can be
for example "edge performance analytics". Analytics filter information M
Filter information for the analytics event Analytics type M Whether analytics
event is about prediction or statistics Destination EAS ID O (NOTE) This
identifier shows the destination EAS for which the analytics subscription
applies. Destination EES ID O (NOTE) This identifier shows the destination EES
for which the analytics subscription applies. DNN/DNAI O (NOTE) DNN or DNAIs
information for which the subscription applies. Target data producer profile
criteria O Characteristics of the data producers to be used. Preferred
confidence level O The level of accuracy for the analytics service (in case of
prediction. Area of Interest O The geographical or service area for which the
subscription request applies. Time validity O The time validity of the
request. NOTE: At least one of these shall be present
#### 8.8.3.3 Edge analytics subscription response
Table 8.8.3.3-1 describes information elements for the edge analytics
subscription response from the ADAE server to the consumer.
Table 8.8.3.3-1: Edge analytics subscription response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Result M The result of the analytics subscription request (positive or
negative acknowledgement).
#### 8.8.3.4 Edge data collection subscription request
Table 8.8.3.4-1 describes information elements for the edge data collection
subscription request from the ADAE server to the Data Producer at the EDN or
the A-DCCF, or from ADAE server to ADAE client.
Table 8.8.3.4-1: Data collection subscription request
Information element Status Description
* * *
ADAE server ID M The identifier of the ADAE server Data Collection Event ID M
The identifier of the data collection event Data Collection requirements M The
requirements for data collection, including the format of data, frequency of
reporting, level of abstraction of data, level of accuracy of data. Analytics
ID O The identifier of the analytics event, for which the data collection is
needed. List of Data Producer IDs O In case when this request is performed via
A-DCCF, then the list of Data Producer IDs is needed. Destination EAS ID O
(NOTE) This identifier shows the destination EAS for which the analytics
subscription applies. Destination EES ID O (NOTE) This identifier shows the
target EES for which the analytics subscription applies. DNN/DNAI O (NOTE) DNN
or DNAIs information for which the subscription applies. Target data producer
profile criteria O Characteristics of the data producers to be used. Area of
Interest O The geographical or service area for which the requirement request
applies. Time validity O The time validity of the request. NOTE: At least one
of these shall be present.
#### 8.8.3.5 Edge data collection subscription response
Table 8.8.3.5-1 describes information elements for the Data collection
subscription response from the edge Data Producer at the EDN or the A-DCCF to
the ADAE server, or from ADAE server to ADAE client.
Table 8.8.3.5-1: Data collection subscription response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Result M The result of the edge data collection subscription request (positive
or negative acknowledgement).
#### 8.8.3.6 Data Notification
Table 8.8.3.6-1 describes information elements for the Data Notification from
the Data Producer to the ADAE server.
Table 8.8.3.6-1: Data notification
Information element Status Description
* * *
Data Collection Event ID M The identifier of the data collection event. Data
Producer ID M The identity of Data Producer. Destination EAS ID O (NOTE) This
identifier shows the destination EAS for which the analytics subscription
applies. Destination EES ID O (NOTE) This identifier shows the destination EES
for which the analytics subscription applies. DNN/DNAI O (NOTE) DNN or DNAIs
information for which the subscription applies. Analytics ID O The identifier
of the analytics event. Data Type M The type of reported data samples which
can be network data, application data, edge data, or different granularities /
abstraction of data (e.g. real time, non-real time). This also indicates
whether data are offline (from A-ADRF or not). Data Output M The reported
data, which can be inform of measurements or offline/historical data on the
requested parameter based on subscription. **Such data can be per EDN or per
DNAI or per EAS/EES load statistics and edge computational resource
utilization stats for a given time and area of interest.** NOTE: At least one
of these shall be present based on the data collection event.
#### 8.8.3.7 Edge analytics Notification
Table 8.8.3.7-1 describes information elements for the Edge analytics
Notification from the ADAE server to the VAL server / Consumer.
Table 8.8.3.7-1: Edge analytics notification
Information element Status Description
* * *
Analytics ID M The identifier of the analytics event. Analytics Type O The
type of analytics based on the event, which can be offline or online
analytics, ML-enabled analytics, statistics, or predictive analytics.
Analytics Output M The predictive or statistical parameter, which can be stats
or prediction related to the edge performance/load for the edge platform or
EES/EAS for a given area/time and based on the event type. Confidence level O
For predictive analytics, the achieved confidence level can be provided.
#### 8.8.3.8 Get analytics data request
Table 8.8.3.8-1 describes information elements for the Get analytics data
request from the analytics consumer to the ADAE server.
Table 8.8.3.8-1: Get analytics data request
Information element Status Description
* * *
Analytics Consumer ID M The identifier of the analytics consumer (VAL server,
EAS, EES). Analytics ID M The identifier of the analytics event. This ID can
be for example "edge performance analytics". Analytics filter information M
Filter information for the analytics event Analytics type M Whether analytics
event is about prediction or statistics. Destination EAS IDs O (NOTE) This
identifier provides the list of destination EASs for which the analytics
request applies. Destination EES IDs O (NOTE) This identifier provides the
list of destination EESs for which the analytics request applies. Preferred
confidence level O The level of accuracy for the analytics service (in case of
prediction). Time duration O Time duration since when analytics data is
required. NOTE: At least one of these shall be present
#### 8.8.3.9 Get analytics data response
Table 8.8.3.9-1 describes information elements for the edge analytics
subscription response from the ADAE server to the consumer.
Table 8.8.3.9-1: Edge analytics subscription response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Result M The result of the analytics data request (positive or negative
acknowledgement). Analytics ID O The identifier of the analytics event.
Analytics Type O The type of analytics - statistics, or predictive analytics.
Analytics Output O The predictive or statistical parameter, which can be stats
or prediction related to the edge performance/load for the edge platform or
EES/EAS for a given area/time and based on the event type. Confidence level O
For predictive analytics, the achieved confidence level can be provided.
## 8.9 Procedure on Service experience to support application performance
analytics
### 8.9.1 General
When Application server (like VAL server) is not available to provide
analytics data due to overload or any other reasons or the application server
is not providing the required quality of service experience at the UE side,
the ADAE server may need to rely on alternate information sources like the
application clients (like VAL clients) that provide the visibility on
application service status. ADAE server can use this information from the
clients alone, for the predictions and share with the consumer of the
analytics. This clause provides a mechanism for the ADAE client to send
service experience report to the ADAE server. ADAE server upon receiving the
service experience information from the UE side entities can use it for
predictions of application performance analytics.
NOTE: In this solution, ADAE server uses data collection and reporting
mechanisms as defined in 3GPP TS 26.531 [3], where the ADAE client acts as a
UE application and ADAE server acts as an AF from Application service
provider.
Editor's note: If the data collection mechanisms, necessary to meet the
requirements to specify solution#5 of the TR 23.700-36, are not supported by
3GPP TS 26.531 [3], such mechanisms will be defined in this version of the
specification based on the conclusions in TR 23.700-36.
### 8.9.2 Procedure
#### 8.9.2.1 Push service experience information
The ADAE client determines the service experience information based on
information received from the VAL client. The service experience information
includes application specific performance measurements like end-to-end
response time, connection bandwidth, request rate, server availability time,
etc. On request VAL client or any other trigger conditions, the ADAE client
sends the service experience report about a VAL server to the ADAE server
using the mechanism defined in 3GPP TS 26.531 [3]. The information elements as
defined in clause 8.9.3.1 are used by ADAE client to send the request and
clause 8.9.3.2 are used by ADAE server to send the response.
For direct reporting, if data reporting session is not available, the ADAE
client creates data reporting session as specified in clause 5.4 of 3GPP TS
26.531 [3]. Once data reporting session is available, the ADAE client (acting
as a UE client) sends reports to ADAE server using direct reporting method as
specified in clause 5.5 of 3GPP TS 26.531 [3].
The ADAE server may take further actions based on the analysis of the report
as shared by the ADAE client. A service experience information from certain
UEs, can trigger the ADAE server to fetch further service experience
information other UEs. Use the service experience information report from
other UEs, to determine/predict analytics.
\- If most of the UE side entities report a similar service experience, then
it could be the application server problem across globally.
\- If only some UEs report a bad service experience, the problem could be
localized among a group of UEs.
\- If the bad service experience from only a UE, the problem is localized to
the UE.
#### 8.9.2.2 Pull service experience information
The procedure can be initiated by the ADAE server upon receiving a service
experience from an ADAE client, to fetch service experience information other
ADAE clients or upon receiving VAL server performance analytics request from
application service provider (application server) or any other event that
requires the ADAE server to determine the service experience data.
Figure 8.9.2.2-1: Pull service experience information from UE
1\. The ADAE server sends Pull service experience request to the ADAE client.
The request contains identity of the specific VAL server and VAL service ID,
for which the service experience report is required, as mentioned in Table
8.9.3.3-1.
2\. Upon receiving the Pull service experience request from the ADAE server,
the ADAE client may take user consent to send the report if the user consent
is not available already.
3\. The ADAE client sends the Pull service experience response to the ADAE
server. The ADAE client instructs the Direct Data Collection Client to
prioritise immediate delivery of a UE data report to the Data Collection AF as
specified in clause 5.5 of 3GPP TS 26.531 [3]. The service experience contains
parameters as specified in Table 8.9.3.4-1.
4\. The ADAE server uses the service experience report for derivation of VAL
server performance analytics.
#### 8.9.2.3 Service experience information based on triggers
The ADAE server configures triggers to the ADAE client to send the service
experience report using the mechanism defined in clause 5.4 of 3GPP TS 26.531
[3].
The procedure can be initiated by the ADAE server upon receiving VAL server
performance analytics request from application service provider (application
server). The information elements as defined in clause 8.9.3.5 are used by
ADAE server to send the request and clause 8.9.3.6 are used by ADAE client to
send the response.
### 8.9.3 Information flows
#### 8.9.3.1 Push service experience information request
Table 8.9.3.1-1 describes information elements for the Push service experience
information request from the ADAE client to the ADAE server.
Table 8.9.3.1-1: Push service experience information request
Information element Status Description
* * *
VAL UE ID M Identity of the VAL UE. VAL service ID O Identity of the VAL
service. VAL Server Id M Identify the VAL server for which the service
experience report is sent. Timestamp O Time stamp of the collected report. VAL
service experience report O Information related to VAL service experience. It
may include end-to-end response time, connection bandwidth, request rate, VAL
server availability, etc.
#### 8.9.3.2 Push service experience information response
Table 8.9.3.2-1 describes information elements for the Push service experience
information response from the ADAE server to the ADAE client.
Table 8.9.3.2-1: Push service experience information response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Result M Indicates success or failure of the request.
#### 8.9.3.3 Pull service experience information request
Table 8.9.3.3-1 describes information elements for the Pull service experience
information request from the ADAE server to the ADAE client.
Table 8.9.3.3-1: Pull service experience information request
Information element Status Description
* * *
VAL server Identity M Identity of the VAL server for which the service
experience information is requested. VAL service ID O Identity of the VAL
service.
#### 8.9.3.4 Pull service experience information response
Table 8.9.3.4-1 describes information elements for the Pull service experience
information response from the ADAE client to the ADAE server.
Table 8.9.3.4-1: Pull service experience information request response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Result M Indicates whether the report is available or not VAL UE ID M Identity
of the VAL UE. VAL service ID (NOTE) O Identity of the VAL service. VAL Server
Id M Identify the VAL server for which the service experience report is sent.
Timestamp (NOTE) O Time stamp of the collected report. VAL service experience
report (NOTE) O Information related to VAL service experience. It may include
end-to-end response time, connection bandwidth, request rate, VAL server
availability, etc. NOTE: These IEs are included only if the result is success.
#### 8.9.3.5 Configure service experience report trigger request
Table 8.9.3.5-1 describes information elements for the Configure service
experience report trigger request from the ADAE server to the ADAE client.
Table 8.9.3.5-1: Configure service experience report trigger request
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +=============================+========+=============================+ | VAL Server specific | M | Identify the list of VAL | | criteria | | servers for which the | | | | service experience report | | | | is requested | | | | | | | | List of VAL server specific | | | | criteria. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | > VAL Server Id | M | Identity of the VAL server | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | > Triggering Criteria | M | Information about the | | | | triggers on which the | | | | service experience is to be | | | | reported for the VAL server | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Common Triggering criteria | O | Information about the | | | | triggers (applicable to all | | | | VAL servers) on which the | | | | service experience is | | | | fetched. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Service experience | O | Information about the | | measurement to monitor | | service experience | | | | measurements which needs to | | | | be fetched and included in | | | | the report. If not present, | | | | by default end-to-end | | | | response time is measured. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Notification Target Address | O | The Notification target | | | | address (e.g. URL) where | | | | the notifications destined | | | | for the ASM Server should | | | | be sent to. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
#### 8.9.3.6 Configure service experience report trigger response
Table 8.9.3.6-1 describes information elements for the Configure service
experience report trigger response from the ADAE server to the ADAE client.
Table 8.9.3.6-1: Configure service experience report trigger response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Result M Indicates success or failure of the request.
# 9 ADAE layer APIs
## 9.1 General
The following ADAE capabilities are offered as APIs:
\- ADAE server APIs;
\- A-ADRF APIs;
The following SEAL service APIs are specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [2] (and TS
23.435 [6] for NSCE):
\- Group management server APIs;
\- Location management server APIs;
\- Configuration management server APIs;
\- Identity management server APIs;
\- Key management server APIs; and
\- Network slice capability enablement APIs.
## 9.2 ADAE server APIs
### 9.2.1 General
This clause provides the APIs provided by ADAES.
### 9.2.2 ADAE server APIs
Table 9.2.2-1 illustrates the ADAE server APIs.
Table 9.2.2-1: List of ADAE server APIs
API Name API Operations Known Consumer(s) Communication Type
* * *
SS_ADAE_VAL_performance_analytics Subscribe VAL server Subscribe/Notify Notify  
SS_ADAE_slice_performance_analytics Subscribe VAL server Subscribe/Notify
Notify  
SS_ADAE_UE-to-UE_performance_analytics Subscribe VAL server Subscribe/Notify
Notify  
SS_ADAE_location_accuracy_analytics Subscribe VAL server Subscribe/Notify
Notify  
SS_ADAE_service_API_analytics Subscribe VAL server / Subscriber/ API invoker
Subscribe/Notify Notify  
SS_ADAE_slice_usage_pattern_analytics Subscribe VAL server / SEAL server
Subscribe/Notify Notify  
SS_ADAE_edge_analytics Subscribe VAL server / EAS / EES Subscribe/Notify
Notify  
Get VAL server / EAS / EES Request / Response SS_ADAES_slice_usage_stats Get
VAL server Request / Response
### 9.2.3 SS_ ADAE_VAL_performance_analytics API
#### 9.2.3.1 General
**API description:** This API enables the VAL server to communicate with the
ADAE server for subscribing for VAL performance analytics and for getting
notified on the result.
#### 9.2.3.2 Subscribe
**API operation name:** VAL_performance_analytics_subscribe
**Description:** The consumer subscribes for VAL performance analytics.
**Inputs:** See clause 8.2.4.2.
**Outputs:** See clause 8.2.4.3 _._
See clause 8.2.2 and 8.2.3 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.2.3.3 Notify
**API operation name:** VAL_performance_analytics_notify
**Description:** The consumer is notified by ADAES on the VAL performance
analytics.
**Inputs:** -
**Outputs:** See clause 8.2.4.7 _._
See clause 8.2.2 and 8.2.3 for details of usage of this operation.
### 9.2.4 SS_ ADAE_slice_performance_analytics API
#### 9.2.4.1 General
**API description:** This API enables the VAL server to communicate with the
ADAE server for subscribing for slice specific application performance
analytics and for getting notified when analytics are derived.
#### 9.2.4.2 Subscribe
**API operation name:** slice_performance_analytics_subscribe
**Description:** The consumer subscribes for slice specific performance
analytics.
**Inputs:** See clause 8.3.3.2.
**Outputs:** See clause 8.3.3.3 _._
See clause 8.3.2 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.2.4.3 Notify
**API operation name:** slice_performance_analytics_notify
**Description:** The consumer is notified by ADAES on the slice specific
performance analytics.
**Inputs:** -
**Outputs:** See clause 8.3.3.4 _._
See clause 8.3.2 for details of usage of this operation.
### 9.2.5 SS_ ADAE_UE-to-UE_performance_analytics API
#### 9.2.5.1 General
**API description:** This API enables the VAL server to communicate with the
ADAE server for subscribing for UE-to-UE session performance analytics and for
getting notified when analytics are derived.
#### 9.2.5.2 Subscribe
**API operation name:** UE-to-UE performance_analytics_subscribe
**Description:** The consumer subscribes for UE-to-UE performance analytics.
**Inputs:** See clause 8.4.3.2.
**Outputs:** See clause 8.4.3.3 _._
See clause 8.4.2 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.2.5.3 Notify
**API operation name:** UE-to-UE performance_analytics_notify
**Description:** The consumer is notified by ADAES on the slice specific
performance analytics.
**Inputs:** -
**Outputs:** See clause 8.4.3.6 _._
See clause 8.4.2 for details of usage of this operation.
### 9.2.6 SS_ ADAE_location_accuracy_analytics API
#### 9.2.6.1 General
**API description:** This API enables the VAL server to communicate with the
ADAE server for subscribing for location accuracy analytics and for getting
notified when analytics are derived.
#### 9.2.6.2 Subscribe
**API operation name:** Location_accuracy_analytics_subscribe
**Description:** The consumer subscribes for location accuracy analytics.
**Inputs:** See clause 8.5.3.2.
**Outputs:** See clause 8.5.3.3 _._
See clause 8.5.2 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.2.6.3 Notify
**API operation name:** Location_accuracy_analytics_notify
**Description:** The consumer is notified by ADAES on the location accuracy
analytics.
**Inputs:** -
**Outputs:** See clause 8.5.3.6 _._
See clause 8.5.2 for details of usage of this operation.
### 9.2.7 SS_ ADAE_service_API_analytics API
#### 9.2.7.1 General
**API description:** This API enables the VAL server to communicate with the
ADAE server for subscribing for service API analytics and for getting notified
when analytics are derived.
#### 9.2.7.2 Subscribe
**API operation name:** Service_API_analytics_subscribe
**Description:** The consumer subscribes for service API analytics.
**Inputs:** See clause 8.6.3.2.
**Outputs:** See clause 8.6.3.3 _._
See clause 8.6.2 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.2.6.3 Notify
**API operation name:** Service_API_analytics_notify
**Description:** The consumer is notified by ADAES on the location accuracy
analytics.
**Inputs:** -
**Outputs:** See clause 8.6.3.6 _._
See clause 8.6.2 for details of usage of this operation.
### 9.2.8 SS_ADAE_slice_usage_pattern_analytics API
#### 9.2.8.1 General
**API description:** This API enables the VAL server to communicate with the
ADAE server for subscribing for slice usage pattern analytics and for getting
notified when analytics are derived.
#### 9.2.8.2 Subscribe
**API operation name:** slice_usage_pattern_analytics_subscribe
**Description:** The consumer subscribes for slice usage pattern analytics.
**Inputs:** See clause 8.7.3.2.
**Outputs:** See clause 8.7.3.3 _._
See clause 8.7.2 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.2.8.3 Notify
**API operation name:** slice_usage_pattern_analytics_notify
**Description:** The consumer is notified by ADAES on the slice usage pattern
analytics.
**Inputs:** -
**Outputs:** See clause 8.7.3.4 _._
See clause 8.7.2 for details of usage of this operation.
### 9.2.9 SS_ ADAE_edge_analytics API
#### 9.2.9.1 General
**API description:** This API enables the VAL server to communicate with the
ADAE server for subscribing for edge load analytics and for getting notified
when analytics are derived.
#### 9.2.9.2 Subscribe
**API operation name:** edge_analytics_subscribe
**Description:** The consumer subscribes for edge load analytics.
**Inputs:** See clause 8.8.3.2.
**Outputs:** See clause 8.8.3.3 _._
See clause 8.8.2 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.2.9.3 Notify
**API operation name:** edge_analytics_notify
**Description:** The consumer is notified by ADAES on the edge load analytics.
**Inputs:** -
**Outputs:** See clause 8.8.3.7 _._
See clause 8.8.2.1 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.2.9.4 Get
**API operation name:** edge_analytics_get
**Description:** The consumer requests edge analytics data.
**Inputs:** See clause 8.8.3.8.
**Outputs:** See clause 8.8.3.9 _._
See clause 8.8.2.2 for details of usage of this operation.
### 9.2.10 SS_ ADAE_slice_usage_stats
#### 9.2.10.1 General
**API description:** This API enables the Consumer to communicate with the
ADAE server for requesting and receiving slice usage statistical data.
#### 9.2.10.2 Get
**API operation name:** slice_usage_stats_get
**Description:** The consumer requests and receives slice usage statistics
from ADAE server.
**Inputs:** See clause 8.7.4.7.
**Outputs:** See clause 8.7.4.8 _._
See clause 8.7.3 for details of usage of this operation.
## 9.3 A-ADRF APIs
### 9.3.1 General
This clause provides the APIs provided by A-ADRF.
### 9.3.2 A-ADRF APIs
Table 9.3.2-1 illustrates the A-ADRF APIs.
Table 9.3.2-1: List of A-ADRF APIs
API Name API Operations Known Consumer(s) Communication Type
* * *
SS_AADRF_Data_Collection Subscribe ADAES Subscribe / Notify Notify  
SS_ AADRF_Historical_ServiceAPI_Logs Get ADAES Request / Response
SS_AADRF_NetworkSlice_Data Get ADAES Request / Response
SS_AADRF_Location_Accuracy_Data Get ADAES Request / Response
SS_AADRF_EdgeData_Collection Subscribe ADAES Subscribe / Notify Notify ADAES
### 9.3.3 SS_AADRF_Data_Collection API
#### 9.3.3.1 General
**API description:** This API enables the ADAE server to communicate with the
A-ADRF for subscribing for offline data collection and for getting notified
about the offline data/statistics.
#### 9.3.3.2 Subscribe
**API operation name:** Data_Collection_Subscribe
**Description:** The consumer subscribes for offline data from A-ADRF.
**Inputs:** See clause 8.2.4.4.
**Outputs:** See clause 8.2.4.5 _._
See clause 8.2.2 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.3.3.3 Notify
**API operation name:** **Data_Collection_Notify**
**Description:** The consumer is receiving the offline data from A-ADRF as
notification, based on subscription.
**Inputs:** -
**Outputs:** See clause 8.2.4.6 _._
See clause 8.2.2 for details of usage of this operation.
### 9.3.4 SS_ AADRF_Historical_serviceAPI_logs API
#### 9.3.4.1 General
**API description:** This API enables the ADAE server to communicate with the
A-ADRF for requesting service API logs and receiving the offline
data/statistics on API logs.
#### **9.3.4.2 Get**
**API operation name:** Historical_ServiceAPI_Logs_Get
**Description:** The consumer requests API logs from A-ADRF.
**Inputs:** See clause 8.6.3.4.
**Outputs:** See clause 8.6.3.5 _._
See clause 8.6.2 for details of usage of this operation.
### 9.3.5 SS_ AADRF_NetworkSlice_data API
#### 9.3.5.1 General
**API description:** This API enables the ADAE server to communicate with the
A-ADRF for requesting and receiving network slice data.
#### **9.3.5.2 Get**
**API operation name:** NetworkSlice_Data_Get
**Description:** The consumer requests network slice data from A-ADRF.
**Inputs:** See clause 8.7.3.5.
**Outputs:** See clause 8.7.3.6 _._
See clause 8.7.2 for details of usage of this operation.
### 9.3.6 SS_AADRF_EdgeData_Collection API
#### 9.3.6.1 General
**API description:** This API enables the ADAE server to communicate with the
A-ADRF for subscribing for edge data collection and for getting notified about
the offline data/statistics for the EDN and/or EAS/EES.
#### 9.3.6.2 Subscribe
**API operation name:** EdgeData_Collection_Subscribe
**Description:** The consumer subscribes for offline edge data from A-ADRF.
**Inputs:** See clause 8.8.3.4.
**Outputs:** See clause 8.8.3.5 _._
See clause 8.8.2 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.3.6.3 Notify
**API operation name:** **EdgeData_Collection_Notify**
**Description:** The consumer is receiving the offline edge data from A-ADRF
as notification, based on subscription.
**Inputs:** -
**Outputs:** See clause 8.8.3.6 _._
See clause 8.8.2 for details of usage of this operation.
### 9.3.7 SS_AADRF_Location_Accuracy API
#### 9.3.7.1 General
**API description:** This API enables the ADAE server to communicate with the
A-ADRF to request location analytics/data for VAL UEs or VAL service area.
#### 9.3.7.2 Get
**API operation name:** Location_Accuracy_Data_Get
**Description:** The consumer is receiving offline location analytics/data
from A-ADRF.
**Inputs:** See clause 8.5.3.4.
**Outputs:** See clause 8.5.3.5 _._
See clause 8.5.2 for details of usage of this operation.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Deployment scenarios
# A.1 General
This clause provides the different deployment models for ADAE services. There
could be three deployment options:
\- ADAES can be deployed at a centralized cloud platform, and collects data
from multiple EDNs
\- ADAES can be deployed at the edge platform
\- Coordinated ADAES deployment, where multiple ADAE services are deployed in
edge or central clouds. Such deployment allows for local-global analytics for
system wide optimization
# A.2 Deployment model #1: Cloud-deployed ADAES
In this deployment, as shown in Figure A.2-1, the ADAES is centrally located
and can provide analytics services to different consumers including, edge
servers, VAL servers, as well as to other SEAL servers (e.g. NSCE).
The statistics/predictions that the ADAES provides are applicable to the ADAES
service area, which can be provided for the entire PLMN.
Figure A.2-1: Cloud deployed ADAES
# A.3 Deployment model #2 Edge-deployed ADAES
In this deployment, as shown in Figure A.3-1, the ADAES is located at the EDN
and provides analytics services to the EAS and EES at the edge platform. ADAES
can be deployed by the ECSP or the MNO to provide analytics for the
application or edge parameters.
The statistics/predictions that the edge deployed ADAES are applicable to the
ADAES service areas (as shown in the example in Fig A.2-2), which are
equivalent to the EES/EAS service areas. Such analytics can be about the edge
load or the EAS performance and can be provided to consumers within EDN.
In this deployment the interaction between edge deployed ADAES is possible for
exchanging edge/application analytics for application mobility scenarios or
for cases when ADAES #1 and #2 service areas have overlapping coverage.
Figure A.3-1: Edge deployed ADAES
# A.4 Deployment model #3: Coordinated ADAES deployment
In this deployment, multiple ADAESs can be located at different EDNs/DNs and
can be deployed by the same ADAE provider. Such coordinated deployments allow
the local -- global analytics derivation (which may be needed for improving
the analytics confidence level). The centrally deployed ADAES can also act as
ADAE analytics aggregator entity and configures the edge deployed ADAES to
derive analytics on different sub-areas.
One example is the use of analytics for the EDN#1 or EDN#2 load which will
help predicting the VAL server performance at a centrally located ADAES. Such
deployment is also applicable for ML-based analytics methods, like supervised
learning, where the centrally located ADAES acts as ML model training entity,
and the edge located ADAESs can act as ML model inference entities (using edge
data to improve the prediction accuracy).
The statistics/predictions that the edge deployed ADAES correspond to the
ADAES service areas (as shown in the example in Fig A.4-1), which is
equivalent to the EES/EAS service areas. The central ADAE server covers all
PLMN area and is used to coordinate or jointly perform analytics with the
distributed ADAES. Such analytics services can be provided to consumers at the
central DN, like the VAL servers or SEAL services or even at the PLMN side
(e.g. NWDAF consuming service experience analytics).
Figure A.4-1: Coordinated deployment of ADAES
#