# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
With increasing demand of applications consumption over mobile networks, more
and more application content is transmitted over the mobile networks. Vertical
applications have diverse requirements for the application content
distribution and delivery. To ease the various data delivery demands for
vertical applications, a data delivery enabler is specified in this document.
The data delivery service is part of the SEAL services specified in 3GPP TS
23.434 [4].
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the application enabling layer platform
architecture, capabilities and services to efficiently support storage and
delivery for the application content/data for vertical applications as part of
SEAL services specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [4].
This work takes into consideration the existing stage 1 and stage 2 work
within 3GPP related to data delivery and 3GPP system user plane aspects
specified in 3GPP TS 22.261 [2] and 3GPP TS 23.501 [5].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.222: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
Common API Framework for 3GPP Northbound APIs; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.434: \"Service Enabler Architecture Layer for Verticals (SEAL);
Functional architecture and information flows\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS); Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System (5GS); Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.503: \"Policy and charging control framework for the 5G System
(5GS); Stage 2\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.548: \"5G System Enhancements for Edge Computing \".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.554: \"Application architecture for MSGin5G Service; Stage 2\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.558: \"Architecture for enabling Edge Applications\".
[11] 3GPP TS 28.104: \"Management and orchestration; Management Data Analytics
(MDA)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
None
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AF Application Function
CAPIF Common API Framework for northbound APIs
DD Data Delivery
EAS Edge Application Server
EDN Edge Data Network
NRM Network Resource Management
SBA Service Based Architecture
SCEF Service Capability Exposure Function
SEAL Service Enabler Architecture Layer for verticals
SEALDD SEAL Data Delivery
URSP UE Route Selection Policy
VAL Vertical Application Layer
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 General
This clause gives a functionality overview for SEALDD service.
## 4.2 Application signaling and data transmission
This SEALDD functionality provides a mechanism for application signalling data
transmission and application media data transmission between VAL client(s) and
VAL server(s). The SEALDD enabled regular connection management procedures
(e.g. connection establishment, connection deletion) are specified in clause
9.2. For supporting URLLC feature, the SEALDD layer can establish E2E
redundant transmission with packet duplication and elimination, as specified
in clause 9.3.
## 4.3 Transmission quality measurement and transmission optimization
The transmission quality measurement procedure specified in clause 9.7,
supports the E2E transmission quality measurement between SEALDD client and
SEALDD server, and exposes the transmission reports to VAL servers and other
consumers (e.g. SEALDD server, NSCE server, etc). Based on the SEALDD enabled
E2E transmission measurement result, the SEALDD layer can provide transmission
optimization scheme (e.g. triggering redundant transmission, switching another
SEALDD server) to improve transmission quality by interacting with 5GC. The
transmission optimization procedures are specified in clause 9.9.
## 4.4 Data transmission rate control
The SEALDD layer can provide the differentiated data delivery service with
different bandwidth/transmission rate experience for VAL users, considering
the network conditions (e.g. QoS monitoring, ECN marking for L4S report),
which is described in clause 9.8.
## 4.5 Service continuity support
This functionality is provided to support service continuity due to UE
mobility or load balance. The SEALDD layer can maintain the transport layer
connection by interacting SEALDD context, and requesting 5GC to perform
seamless data transmission (e.g. IP replacement procedure, simultaneous
connectivity). The service continuity support procedures are specified in
clause 9.6.
## 4.6 Data storage
The SEALDD server supports the data storage and storage management for VAL
server, SEALDD client and other SEALDD servers, etc, the corresponding
procedure is specified in clause 9.5.
# 5 Business relationships
## 5.1 General
The clause specifies the business relationships between the various
stakeholders like VAL user, VAL service provider, SEALDD provider and PLMN
operator.
## 5.2 Business relationship option-A
Figure 5.2-1 shows the business relationship option-A that exist and that are
needed to support a single VAL user.
Figure 5.2-1: Business relationship option-A for VAL services
The VAL user belongs to a VAL service provider based on a VAL service
agreement between the VAL user and the VAL service provider. The VAL service
provider can have VAL service agreements with several VAL users. The VAL user
can have VAL service agreements with several VAL service providers.
The VAL service provider and the PLMN operator can be part of the same
organization, in which case the business relationship between the two is
internal to a single organization.
The VAL service provider can have SEAL provider arrangements with multiple
SEAL providers and the SEAL provider can have PLMN operator service
arrangements with multiple PLMN operators. The SEAL provider and the VAL
service provider or the PLMN operator can be part of the same organization, in
which case the business relationship between the two is internal to a single
organization.
The PLMN operator can have PLMN operator service arrangements with multiple
VAL service providers and the VAL service provider can have PLMN operator
service arrangements with multiple PLMN operators. As part of the PLMN
operator service arrangement between the VAL service provider and the PLMN
operator, PLMN subscription arrangements can be provided which allows the VAL
UEs to register with PLMN operator network.
NOTE: The roaming cases are not discussed in this release.
## 5.3 Business relationship option-B
Figure 5.3-1 shows the business relationship option-B that exist and that are
needed to support a single VAL user.
Figure 5.3-1: Business relationship option-B for VAL services
The VAL user belongs to a VAL service provider based on a VAL service
agreement between the VAL user and the VAL service provider. The VAL service
provider can have VAL service agreements with several VAL users. The VAL user
can have VAL service agreements with several VAL service providers.
The VAL user can have PLMN operator service arrangements with the PLMN
operator. The PLMN operator service arrangement includes the UE subscription
arrangement which allows the VAL UEs to register with operator network.
The VAL service provider can have SEALDD provider arrangements with multiple
SEALDD providers and the SEALDD provider can have SEALDD provider arrangements
with multiple VAL service providers.
The PLMN operator can have PLMN operator service arrangements with multiple
SEALDD service providers and the SEALDD service provider can have PLMN
operator service arrangements with multiple PLMN operators. The SEALDD service
provider and the PLMN operator can be part of the same organization, in which
case the business relationship between the two is internal to a single
organization.
NOTE: The roaming cases are not discussed in this release.
# 6 Architectural requirements
## 6.1 General
### 6.1.1 Description
The general architecture requirements specified in clause 4.1 of 3GPP TS
23.434 [4] are applicable for SEALDD service. This clause specifies the
general requirements for SEALDD service.
### 6.1.2 Requirements
[AR-6.1.2-a] The SEALDD service shall provide a discovery mechanism to support
data delivery between VAL client(s) and VAL servers(s) considering different
deployments of VAL server(s) (e.g. cloud or edge).
## 6.2 Data transmission requirements
### 6.2.1 Description
This clause specifies the data transmission requirements for SEALDD service.
### 6.2.2 Requirements
[AR-6.2.2-a] The SEALDD service shall provide a mechanism for application
signalling data transmission and application media data transmission between
VAL client(s) and VAL server(s).
[AR-6.2.2-b] The SEALDD service shall provide a mechanism to support the data
transmission quality requirement configurations and measurements for the
application data transmission between VAL client(s) and VAL server(s).
[AR-6.2.2-c] The SEALDD service shall provide a mechanism for application data
transmission between VAL client(s) and VAL server(s) with guaranteed quality.
[AR-6.2.2-d] The SEALDD service shall provide a mechanism for application data
packaging and un-packaging to support the data transmission between VAL
client(s) and VAL server(s).
[AR-6.2.2-e] The SEALDD service shall provide a mechanism for E2E redundant
data transmission between VAL client and VAL server.
[AR-6.2.2-f] The SEALDD service shall provide a mechanism to support the
packet/data duplication, elimination and error recovery between VAL client and
VAL server.
## 6.3 Data storage requirements
### 6.3.1 Description
This clause specifies the data storage requirements for SEALDD service.
### 6.3.2 Requirements
[AR-6.3.2-a] The SEALDD service shall provide a mechanism for data storage
supporting the CRUD operations.
[AR-6.3.2-b] The SEALDD service shall provide a mechanism to support the data
storage status management.
## 6.4 SEALDD server discovery and selection requirements
### 6.4.1 Description
This clause specifies the SEALDD server discovery and selection requirements
for SEALDD service.
### 6.4.2 Requirements
[AR-6.4.2-a] The SEALDD service shall provide a mechanism for supporting the
SEALDD server discovery and selection for VAL server.
[AR-6.4.2-b] The SEALDD service shall provide a mechanism to provide the
information of SEALDD server to VAL/SEALDD client.
## 6.5 MSGin5G message transfer requirements
### 6.5.1 Description
This clause specifies the MSGin5G message transfer requirements for SEALDD
service.
### 6.5.2 Requirements
[AR-6.5.2-a] The SEALDD service shall provide a mechanism to support the
SEALDD traffic transmission using MSGin5G message.
## 6.6 Data transmission bandwidth control requirements
### 6.6.1 Description
This clause specifies the data transmission bandwidth control requirements for
SEALDD service.
### 6.6.2 Requirements
[AR-6.6.2-a] The SEALDD service shall provide a mechanism to support the
transmission bandwidth control for VAL application.
# 7 Architecture
## 7.1 General
The architecture for the SEAL data delivery enabler is based on the generic
functional model specified in clause 6.2 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [4].
This clause provides the overall architecture description:
\- Clause 7.2 describes the functional architecture;
\- Clause 7.3 describes the functional entities;
\- Clause 7.4 describes the reference points; and
\- Clause 7.5 describes the cardinality of functional entities and reference
points.
## 7.2 Architecture
This clause describes the architecture for enabling SEAL Data Delivery
applications in the following representations:
\- A service-based representation as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [4], where
the SEAL Data Delivery Enabler Layer functions (e.g. SEALDD server) enable
other authorized Vertical Application Layer functions (e.g. VAL server) to
access their services.
\- A service-based representation as specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [5], where
the Network Functions (e.g. NEF) enable authorized SEAL Data Delivery Layer
functions (e.g. SEALDD server) i.e. Application Functions, to access their
services;
\- A service-based representation, where the Core Network Northbound APIs as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [5] and 3GPP TS 23.502 [6], are utilized by
authorized SEAL Data Delivery Enabler Layer functions via CAPIF core function
specified in 3GPP TS 23.222 [3]; and
\- A reference point representation, where existing interactions between any
two functions (e.g. SEALDD client and SEALDD server) is shown by an
appropriate point-to-point reference point (e.g. SEALDD-UU).
SEAL Data Delivery Enabler Layer functions shown in the service-based
representation of the SEAL Data Delivery architecture shall only use service-
based interfaces for their interactions.
The service based representation of SEAL Data Delivery function in the overall
SEAL service-based representation is specified in clause 15 of 3GPP TS 23.434
[4]. The SEALDD function exhibits service-based interfaces which are used for
providing and consuming SEALDD services. The service-based interface for
SEALDD function is representation as Sdd.
Figure 7.2-1 illustrates the service-based representation for utilization of
the 5GS network services based on the 5GS SBA specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [5].
Figure 7.2-1: Utilization of 5GS network services based on the 5GS SBA \--
service based representation
The SEALDD server acts as AF for consuming network services from the 3GPP 5G
Core Network entities over the Service Based Architecture specified in 3GPP TS
23.501 [5].
Figure 7.2-2 illustrates the service-based representation for utilization of
the Core Network (5GC, EPC) northbound APIs via CAPIF.
Figure 7.2-2: Utilization of Core Network Northbound APIs via CAPIF -- service
based representation
The SEALDD server acts as authorized API invoker to consume services from the
Core Network (5GC, EPC) northbound API entities like SCEF, NEF, SCEF+NEF which
act as API Exposing Function as specified in 3GPP TS 23.222 [3].
The mechanism for northbound APIs discovery using the service-based interfaces
depicted in figure 7.2-3 is as specified in 3GPP TS 23.222 [3].
Figure 7.2-3 illustrates the architecture for SEAL Data Delivery enabler
service.
Figure 7.2-3 Architecture for SEAL Data Delivery Service
The SEALDD server can communicate with the control plane of 3GPP core network
via N33/N5 interface with the SEALDD control plane functionality.
NOTE 1: Relationship and API interactions between SEALDD and NRM are out of
scope of this release.
For uplink traffic, VAL client sends application data traffic to SEALDD client
for SEALDD service over SEALDD-C. After data plane packet processing by SEALDD
client, the application data traffic is converted to SEALDD data traffic and
transferred to SEALDD server over SEALDD-UU. The SEALDD server restores the
application data traffic and sends it to VAL server over SEALDD-S. For
downlink traffic, VAL server sends application data traffic to SEALDD server
for SEALDD service over SEALDD-S. After data plane packet processing by SEALDD
server, the application data traffic is converted to SEALDD data traffic and
transferred to SEALDD client over SEALDD-UU. The SEALDD client restores the
application data traffic and sends it to VAL client over SEALDD-C. Optionally,
VAL deployments may choose to route application signalling traffic and
application data traffic for some or all functions it offers using SEALDD
service and figure 7.2-4 illustrates the architecture for achieving this. In
this case the VAL client and VAL server may choose not to maintain application
connection by themselves and transfer all the application traffic over SEALDD
connections for those functions. The data storage functionality may be
provided by SEALDD server or provided by other storage functions in VAL
server, or other cloud platform.
NOTE 1: It is up to the implementation of VAL server about which storage
entity (e.g. VAL server, SEALDD server, or other cloud platform) is selected
and used.
NOTE 2: SEALDD capabilities are provided as APIs to the VAL Layer, it is up to
VAL layer to decide which traffic to be transferred (e.g. application
signalling, application data).
Figure 7.2-4: Architecture for application traffic transfer
The SEAL Data Delivery client interacts with the SEAL data delivery server to
establish application layer data transport path.
Through this path, the SEALDD server and client provides data transport
service capabilities such as data plane packet processing (e.g. packet
duplication, elimination or transport coordination), data forwarding, data
caching, background data transfer, etc. to support the VAL server and VAL
client. Annex C describes a typical lifecycle of SEALDD to establish the
SEALDD connection for the VAL client and VAL server.
## 7.3 Functional entities
### 7.3.1 General
The functional entities for SEALDD service are described in the following
clauses.
### 7.3.2 SEAL Data Delivery server
The SEAL data delivery server functional entity acts as the application server
for the data delivery enablement. The SEALDD server supports the following
capabilities:
a) Supporting the transmission for application signalling data and application
media/data, by using 3GPP network.
b) Providing the application data/media handling capabilities (e.g. storage,
management, transmission).
c) Interacting with 5GC via N33/N5 (i.e. send control plane requirements or
receive control plane notification) with usage of capability exposed by 3GPP
network.
### 7.3.3 SEAL Data Delivery client
The SEAL data delivery client functional entity acts as the application client
for the data delivery enablement. The SEALDD client supports the following
capabilities:
a) Supporting the transmission for application signalling data and application
media/data, by using 3GPP network.
## 7.4 Reference points
### 7.4.1 General
The reference points for the functional model for SEALDD are described in the
following clauses.
### 7.4.2 SEALDD-UU
Reference point between SEALDD client and SEALDD server used to transfer data
content and exchange information for SEALDD service provisioning, control,
reporting etc.
### 7.4.3 SEALDD-C
Reference point between SEALDD client and VAL client to enable northbound
client side API exposed by SEALDD client to VAL client for data delivery and
SEALDD service provisioning, control, reporting etc.
NOTE: Detailed specification of this reference point is out of scope of this
release of this specification.
### 7.4.4 SEALDD-S
Reference point between SEALDD server and VAL server to enable northbound
server side API exposed by SEALDD server to VAL server for data delivery and
SEALDD service provisioning, control, reporting etc.
### 7.4.5 SEALDD-E
Reference point enables interactions between two SEALDD servers to transfer
data content and exchange information for SEALDD service provisioning,
control, reporting etc.
### 7.4.6 N6
Reference point enables interactions between SEALDD server and 5GC to transfer
SEALDD traffic packets.
### 7.4.7 N33/N5
Reference point enables interactions between SEALDD server and 5GC to send
control plane requirements or receive control plane notification for optimized
data transmission.
## 7.5 Cardinality rules
### 7.5.1 General
The cardinality rules for the SEALDD entities and SEALDD reference points are
described in the following clauses.
### 7.5.2 Functional Entity Cardinality
#### 7.5.2.1 VAL client
The following cardinality rules apply for VAL clients:
a) One or more VAL client(s) may be located in a VAL UE.
#### 7.5.2.2 SEALDD client
The following cardinality rules apply for SEALDD clients:
a) One or more SEALDD client(s) may be located in a VAL UE.
#### 7.5.2.3 SEALDD server
The following cardinality rules apply for SEALDD server:
a) One or more SEALDD server(s) may be located in network.
#### 7.5.2.4 VAL server
The following cardinality rules apply for VAL server:
a) One or more VAL server(s) may be located in network.
### 7.5.3 Reference Point Cardinality
#### 7.5.3.1 SEALDD-C (Between VAL client and SEALDD client)
The following cardinality rules apply for the reference of SEALDD-C:
a) One VAL client may communicate with only one SEALDD client; and
b) One SEALDD client may communicate with one or more VAL client(s)
concurrently.
NOTE: Detailed specification of this reference point is out of scope of this
release of this specification.
#### 7.5.3.2 SEALDD-S (Between VAL layer and SEALDD server)
The following cardinality rules apply for the reference of SEALDD-S:
a) One VAL server may communicate with one or more SEALDD server; and
b) One SEALDD server may communicate with one or more VAL server(s)
concurrently.
#### 7.5.3.3 SEALDD-UU (Between SEALDD client and SEALDD server)
The following cardinality rules apply for the reference of SEALDD-UU:
a) One SEALDD client may communicate with one or more SEALDD servers.
b) One SEALDD server may communicate with one or more SEALDD client(s)
concurrently.
#### 7.5.3.4 SEALDD-E (Between SEALDD server and SEALDD server)
The following cardinality rules apply for the reference of SEALDD-E:
a) One SEALDD server may communicate with one or more SEALDD server(s)
concurrently.
# 8 Identities and commonly used values
## 8.1 General
The common identities for SEAL refer to 3GPP TS 23.434 [4]. The following
clauses list the additional identities and commonly used values for SEALDD.
## 8.2 SEALDD server ID
The SEALDD server ID uniquely identifies the SEAL data delivery server.
## 8.3 SEALDD client ID
The SEALDD client ID is a globally unique value that identifies the SEAL data
delivery client.
## 8.4 SEALDD flow ID
The SEALDD flow ID is used by the SEALDD client and SEALDD server to identify
different VAL application traffic.
# 9 Procedures and information flows
## 9.1 General
The VAL application data/content can be stored in the VAL server, or the
SEALDD server, or other cloud platform. For the downlink traffic transmission,
the SEALDD server can retrieve the data/content of VAL application, by using
one of the following modes:
\- Downlink pull mode: the SEALDD server can pull the data/content of VAL
application from the address provided by the VAL server (i.e. data/content
address in VAL server, or in other cloud platform).
\- Downlink push mode: the VAL server can push the data/content of VAL
application to the SEALDD server.
For the uplink traffic transmission, the SEALDD server can sends the
data/content of VAL application to the address provided by the VAL server, by
using one of the following modes:
\- Uplink pull mode: the VAL server can pull the data/content of VAL
application from the SEALDD server.
\- Uplink push mode: the SEALDD server can push the data/content of VAL
application to the address provided by the VAL server (i.e. data/content
address in VAL server, or in other cloud platform).
## 9.2 SEALDD regular connection management
### 9.2.1 General
The following clauses specify procedures, information flow and APIs for
establishing an SEALDD enabled end-to-end connection between VAL client and
VAL server. The end-to-end connection (also termed SEALDD flow) is uniquely
identified in the SEALDD layer by the SEALDD flow ID. The specific procedures
detailed in the subsequent clauses are for cases in which the SEALDD regular
connection is used respectively for application signaling, application data
delivery initiated by VAL server, and application data delivery initiated
based on DD policy.
NOTE: SEALDD server and VAL server may have different behaviour when
establishing the connection for signalling transmission and regular data
transmission. For signalling transmission, the VAL server may allocate the
same address and port to send/receive the signalling traffic of all the users.
For data transmission, the VAL server may allocate different addresses and
ports to send/receive the data traffic of different users. And SEALDD server
may need to identify the data traffic by checking the SEALDD connection
establishment request since different SEALDD clients' application data traffic
should be mapped to their specific SEALDD-S connection.
### 9.2.2 Procedure
#### 9.2.2.1 SEALDD enabled signalling transmission connection establishment
procedure
Figure 9.2.2.1-1 illustrate the procedure for signalling transmission
connection establishment.
Pre-condition:
\- The VAL server can discover and select the SEALDD server by CAPIF
functions.
Figure 9.2.2.1-1: SEALDD signalling transmission connection establishment
procedure
1\. The VAL server decides to use SEALDD service for application signalling
transfer and allocates address/port as SEALDD-S Data transmission connection
information for receiving the application signalling packets from SEALDD
server. The VAL server sends Sdd_RegularTransmission request to the SEALDD
server. The service request includes the VAL server ID, VAL service ID to
identify the VAL application traffic, the SEALDD-S Data transmission
connection information of the VAL server side.
2\. Upon receiving the request, the SEALDD server performs an authorization
check. If authorization is successful, the SEALDD server allocates a specific
address or port used for SEALDD traffic transfer with the incoming SEALDD
client(s) for the VAL server and responds with a SEALDD service response.
NOTE 1: The SEALDD server does not allocate address/port in this step and VAL
server treats the SEALDD-S Data transmission connection information as
wildcard endpoint for SEALDD-S reference point to receive all the application
signalling traffic.
3\. The VAL client sends a SEALDD service request to SEALDD client. The
service request also indicates to establish application signalling
transmission connection. The VAL client receives a SEALDD service response to
the SEALDD client. The response indicates that whether the SEALDD service
request is successful or not.
4\. The VAL/SEALDD client discovers and selects the proper SEALDD server for
the VAL application, as described in clause 9.4.3. After this step, the VAL
server is discovered and selected along with the associated SEALDD server, the
SEALDD client can get the SEALDD server\'s address.
5\. The SEALDD client allocates a SEALDD flow ID mapping to application
traffic for application signalling transmission. The SEALDD client sends
Sdd_RegularTransmissionConnection_Establish request to SEALDD server with the
SEALDD client ID, the SEALDD flow ID, VAL server ID, VAL service ID and the
SEALDD traffic descriptor of the SEALDD client side (the address/port of the
SEALDD client for receiving the downlink SEALDD traffic). The request message
also contains the selected VAL server endpoint information.
NOTE 2: The SEALDD flow ID is used by the SEALDD client and SEALDD server to
identify different application traffic, and it is mapped to the VAL service
ID.
6\. The SEALDD server responds to the SEALDD client with the SEALDD traffic
descriptor of SEALDD server side (e.g. address/port allocated in step 2,
transport layer protocol) mapping to the application traffic.
7\. The SEALDD server stores the SEALDD client ID, SEALDD flow ID to identify
the SEALDD traffic and establishes SEALDD-S connection with VAL server for the
VAL client to transmit application traffic mapping to the SEALDD traffic.
SEALDD server may use different address/port to establish the SEALDD-S data
transmission connection for application signalling transfer towards the VAL
server for different SEALDD client and SEALDD flow. Then each VAL client will
have different SEALDD-S data transmission connection at the SEALDD server
side.
8\. The SEALDD client uses the SEALDD traffic descriptor of SEALDD server side
for SEALDD connection establishment.
NOTE 3: If the UE\'s address for SEALDD traffic transfer is different from the
address used in the control plane interaction (step 5 and 6), another SEALDD
interaction procedure may be triggered to notify the SEALDD server about the
address/port used by the SEALDD client for SEALDD traffic transfer. Or the
SEALDD server reuses the SEALDD client\'s address used in step 5 for SEALDD
traffic transfer.
After this step, the SEALDD client and SEALDD server both get the whole SEALDD
traffic descriptor (including the UE\'s address/port and SEALDD server\'s
address/port for the SEALDD traffic transmission). The SEALDD client gets the
mapping information (i.e. SEALDD flow ID for the application signalling
transfer). The SEALDD server gets the mapping information between the SEALDD
flow ID, the signalling transmission Session ID and the SEALDD-S connection.
The SEALDD client and SEALDD server store the mapping between the application
traffic and SEALDD traffic.
Upon receiving application signalling traffic from VAL client, the SEALDD
client maps it into SEALDD traffic with SEALDD traffic descriptor as
negotiated with SEALDD server. The SEALDD server maps the SEALDD traffic to
the application traffic according to the stored SEALDD traffic descriptor,
SEALDD client ID, SEALDD flow ID. The SEALDD server sends the recovered
application traffic to VAL server via the connection established in step 7
according to the mapping relationship between the SEALDD-S connection and the
SEALDD traffic.
For the downlink application signalling traffic in response to the uplink
application signalling, the VAL server can respond to the source address/port
(SEALDD-S address/port of the SEALDD server side) of the uplink signalling
traffic. Upon receiving the downlink application signalling traffic from the
SEALDD-S connection, the SEALDD server can map the downlink application
signalling traffic to the related SEALDD client ID and SEALDD flow ID and send
the mapped SEALDD traffic to the SEALDD client. The rest of the downlink
application traffic transfer is processed similarly with the uplink traffic.
After the connection establishment, the VAL server can communicate with VAL
client for application layer signalling traffic transfer via the established
SEALDD connection.
#### 9.2.2.2 SEALDD enabled regular data transmission connection establishment
procedure
Figure 9.2.2.2-1 illustrate the procedure for establishing regular SEALDD data
transmission connection.
Pre-condition:
\- The VAL server can discover and select the SEALDD server by CAPIF
functions.
Figure 9.2.2.2-1: SEALDD enabled regular data transmission connection
establishment procedure
1\. The VAL server decides to use SEALDD service for application traffic
transfer and allocates address/port as SEALDD-S Data transmission connection
information for receiving the data packets from SEALDD server. The VAL server
sends Sdd_RegularTransmission request to the SEALDD server discovered by
CAPIF. The service request includes UE ID/address, VAL server ID, VAL service
ID, SEALDD-S Data transmission connection information of the VAL server side,
and optionally, the QoS information for the application traffic, e.g. QoS
requirements.
2\. Upon receiving the request, the SEALDD server performs an authorization
check. If authorization is successful, SEALDD server allocates address/port of
the SEALDD server to receive the packets from the VAL server for application
data transfer as SEALDD-S data transmission connection information of the
SEALDD server side. The SEALDD server allocates a specific address or port
used for SEALDD traffic transfer with the specific UE for the VAL server and
responds with a SEALDD service response (including SEALDD-S data transmission
connection information of the SEALDD server side). The VAL server and SEALDD
server can use SEALDD-S data transmission connection information to establish
the data transmission connection between VAL server and SEALDD server for
application data transfer.
The SEALDD server may send the AF request to provide the required QoS
information to 5GC via N33/N5, as defined in clause 5.2.6.9 and in clause
5.2.5.3 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [6]. The AF request includes the application traffic
descriptor containing the address or ports allocated by SEALDD server, and the
QoS information for application traffic. The QoS information may be determined
by SEALDD server according to VAL service ID for different service type of
application traffic if the QoS information is not provided by VAL server. The
SEALDD server relies on the northbound Policy Authorization Service API
exposed by the PCF as specified in 3GPP TS 23.502 [6] and 3GPP TS 23.503 [7],
if the SEALDD server is connected to the PCF via the N5 reference point, or
the northbound AF Session with QoS Service APIs and/or the PFD Management
northbound APIs exposed by the NEF as specified in 3GPP TS 23.502 [6] and 3GPP
TS 23.503 [7], if the SEALDD server is connected to the PCF via NEF. SEALDD
may also rely upon the EES Session with QoS API as specified in 3GPP TS 23.558
[10] and/or the NRM QoS functionality as described in 3GPP TS 23.434 [4].
NOTE 1: The SEALDD-S data transmission connection information of the SEALDD
server side is optional to respond to the VAL server, if the SEALDD server
uses the downlink pull mode to obtain the data/content from the address
provided by the VAL server in step 1, and uses the uplink push mode to send
the data/content to the address provided by VAL server.
3\. Data transmission session information is provisioned to the VAL client by
the VAL server via application signalling.
NOTE 2: The application signalling may be transmitted via direct application
layer connection or via the SEALDD layer.
4\. The VAL client sends a SEALDD service request to SEALDD client. The VAL
client receives a SEALDD service response to the SEALDD client. The response
indicates that whether the SEALDD service request is successful or not.
5\. The VAL/SEALDD client discover and select the proper SEALDD server for the
VAL application, as described in clause 9.4.3. After this step, the VAL server
is discovered and selected along with the associated SEALDD server, the SEALDD
client can get the SEALDD server\'s address.
6\. The SEALDD client allocates a SEALDD flow ID mapping to the identifiers of
the application traffic. The SEALDD client sends
Sdd_RegularTransmissionConnection_Establish request to SEALDD server with the
SEALDD client ID, the SEALDD flow ID, the SEALDD traffic descriptor of the
SEALDD client side (the address/port of the SEALDD client for receiving the
downlink SEALDD traffic), VAL server ID, VAL service ID. The request message
also contains the selected VAL server endpoint information and UEID.
NOTE 3: The SEALDD server can use or update the association between SEALDD-UU
connection and SEALDD-S connection that associated with UE ID, VAL service ID,
VAL server endpoint, which is used to correlate the SEALDD traffic and the VAL
application traffic.
NOTE 4: The SEALDD flow ID is used by the SEALDD client and SEALDD server to
identify different VAL application traffic of the same SEALDD client. The
SEALDD flow ID may be same with the identifiers of the application traffic or
new simplified IDs allocated by SEALDD.
7\. The SEALDD server responds to the SEALDD client with the SEALDD traffic
descriptor of SEALDD server side (e.g. address/port allocated in step 2,
transport layer protocol) mapping to the application traffic.
8\. If the connection between VAL server and SEALDD server is not established
in step 2, the SEALDD server establishes connection with VAL server for the
VAL client to transmit application traffic mapping to the SEALDD traffic
according to the SEALDD-S information negotiated in step 1-2.
9\. The SEALDD client uses the SEALDD traffic descriptor of SEALDD server side
for SEALDD connection establishment.
After this step, the SEALDD client and SEALDD server both get the whole SEALDD
traffic descriptor (including the UE\'s address/port and SEALDD server\'s
address/port for the SEALDD traffic transmission).
After the negotiation and establishment of the connections, the SEALDD client
gets the mapping information between application traffic and SEALDD flow ID.
The SEALDD server gets the mapping information between the SEALDD flow ID and
the SEALDD-S connection. Upon receiving application traffic from VAL client,
the SEALDD maps it to SEALDD traffic with SEALDD traffic descriptors as
negotiated with SEALDD server in step 6 and step 7. The SEALDD traffic is sent
to the SEALDD server. The SEALDD server maps the SEALDD traffic to the
application traffic according to the stored SEALDD traffic descriptor, SEALDD
client ID and SEALDD flow ID. The SEALDD server sends the recovered
application traffic to the address provided by VAL server in step 1, via the
connection established in step 2 or 8 according to the mapping information.
The downlink application traffic sent from VAL server to VAL client is
processed similarly.
#### 9.2.2.3 SEALDD enabled regular data transmission connection establishment
based on policy
The SEALDD servers has Data Delivery (DD) policy being provisioned. Before the
application communication between VAL client and VAL server starts, the DD
policy is enforced by the SEALDD server to establish the DD connection.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The SEALDD server has DD policies available.
Figure 9.2.2.3-1: Policy enforced by SEALDD server for connectivity
1\. The VAL server subscribes to SEALDD event exposure for connection status.
2\. When the time for data transmission is about to start, the SEALDD server
enforces the policy to trigger regular data transmission connection
establishment. If spatial condition for UE is provided, the SEALDD server also
ensures the UE's location requirement is satisfied when establishing regular
data transmission connection (e.g. by using NEF service for monitoring UE
location or SEAL location service for UE entering area of interest).
3\. If there is a special routing requirement for SEALDD user plane traffic
(e.g. running on a specific slice and DNN), the SEALDD server interacts with
3GPP CN to provision service specific parameters with NEF as described in 3GPP
TS 23.502 [6], clause 4.15.6.10 and clause 4.15.6.7.
If there are QoS requirements in the DD policy, the SEALDD server also applies
QoS to ensure the quality for SEALDD traffic by utilizing NEF/PCF/NRM/EES
service for QoS adjustment. Specifically, the SEALDD server relies on the
northbound Policy Authorization Service API exposed by the PCF as specified in
3GPP TS 23.502 [6] and 3GPP TS 23.503 [7], if the SEALDD server is connected
to the PCF via the N5 reference point, or the northbound AF Session with QoS
Service API and/or the PFD Management northbound APIs exposed by the NEF as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.502 [6] and 3GPP TS 23.503 [7], if the SEALDD server
is connected to the PCF via NEF. SEALDD may also rely upon the EES Session
with QoS API as specified in 3GPP TS 23.558 [10] and/or the NRM QoS
functionality as described in 3GPP TS 23.434 [4].
If the DD policy specifies failure detection report, the SEALDD server may
subscribe to CN analytics (e.g. DN performance analytics) from NEF/NWDAF and
further notify data delivery status of application traffic to VAL client (via
SEALDD client) and VAL server based on analytics result.
4\. The SEALDD server allocates an IP address and port for sending and
receiving packet over SEAL-S reference point, then SEALDD server sends regular
data transmission connection establishment request to the VAL server with VAL
service ID, the IP address and port.
5-6. The SEALDD server allocates an IP address and port for sending and
receiving packet over SEAL-Uu reference point, then SEALDD server sends
regular data transmission connection establishment request to the SEALDD
client with SEALDD flow ID, VAL service ID, the IP address and port. The
request is responded by the SEALDD client. UE IP address (and port) may be
included by the SEALDD client in the response or sent in a separate update
message by SEALDD client if a different UE IP address is to be used in DD
connection user plane.
NOTE 1: Step 4 and step 5 can be done in parallel.
NOTE 2: Step 5 can be sent via PDU session (if exist) or via application
triggering (if no PDU session exists).
7\. The SEALDD client further notifies the VAL client about the DD connection
being established.
Upon receiving application traffic from VAL client (not shown in the figure),
the SEALDD client sends it to SEALDD server in SEALDD traffic. The SEALDD
server identifies application traffic based on the VAL service ID and further
sends the application traffic to VAL server. The downlink application traffic
sent from VAL server to VAL client is processed similarly.
#### 9.2.2.4 SEALDD enabled regular data transmission connection deletion
based on policy
Figure 9.2.2.4-1: SEALDD enabled regular data transmission connection deletion
1\. SEALDD server decides to remove the connection. Such a decision may be
based on decision in SEALDD server in the following cases:
a. DD policy removal or validity time expiration;
b. DD policy specified end time reached for SEALDD communication;
c. UE is leaving the area of interest (if spatial condition for UE is provided
in the policy).
2-3. The SEALDD server notifies regular data transmission connection deletion
to the VAL server. The VAL server removes the connection information. The
application traffic is stopped on both sides.
4-5. The SEALDD server requests regular data transmission connection deletion
to the SEALDD client. The request is responded by the SEALDD client. The
application traffic is stopped on both sides.
NOTE 1: Step 2 and step 4 can be done in parallel.
NOTE 2: Step 5 can be sent via PDU session (if exist) or via application
triggering (if no PDU session exists).
6\. The SEALDD client further notifies the VAL client about the regular data
transmission connection being removed. The application traffic is stopped on
both sides.
7\. If a special routing requirement for SEALDD user plane traffic was
provided to 3GPP CN, the SEALDD server interacts with 3GPP CN to remove
service specific parameters with NEF as described in 3GPP TS 23.502 [6],
clause 4.15.6.7.
> 8\. The SEALDD server removes the SEALDD connection (i.e. deletes the SEALDD
> connection context).
#### 9.2.2.5 SEALDD client initiated connection release
Figure 9.2.2.5-1 illustrates the procedure for SEALDD client initiated
connection release procedure from the SEALDD client to the SEALDD server.
Figure 9.2.2.5-1: SEALDD client initiated connection release
1\. The SEALDD client sends the SEALDD connection release request to the
SEALDD server to release the established connection.
2\. The SEALDD server releases the SEALDD-UU data transmission connection
(which was established by SEALDD client or SEALDD server) and sends the
response in the SEALDD connection release response message. Upon receiving the
acknowledgement, the SEALDD client can release the connection resources.
### 9.2.3 Information flows
#### 9.2.3.1 SEALDD enabled regular transmission request
Table 9.2.3.1-1 describes the information flow from the VAL server to the
SEALDD server for requesting the regular application transmission service.
Table 9.2.3.1-1: SEALDD enabled Regular transmission request
+---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | **Information element** | Status | **Description** | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | VAL server ID | M | Identity of the VAL | | | | server | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | VAL service ID | O | Identity of the VAL | | | | service | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | UE identity | O | Identifier of specific | | | | UE, e.g. UE ID, UE | | | | address | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | SEALDD-S Data | M | Address/port and/or URL | | transmission connection | | of the VAL server to | | information | | receive the application | | | | packets from the SEALDD | | | | server | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | QoS information | O | QoS information provided | | | | by VAL server | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | VAL server's total | O | The total bandwidth limit | | bandwidth limit | | of VAL server, including | | | (See NOTE) | UL/DL | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | VAL users' bandwidth | O | The bandwidth limits | | limit | | (i.e. minimum bandwidth | | | (See NOTE) | requirement and maximum | | | | bandwidth limit) for VAL | | | | users, including UL/DL | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | NOTE: These IEs are used | | | | for the SEALDD enabled | | | | bandwidth control for | | | | different VAL users. | | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+
#### 9.2.3.2 SEALDD enabled regular transmission response
Table 9.2.3.2-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD server to the
VAL server for responding to the regular application transmission.
Table 9.2.3.2-1: SEALDD enabled regular transmission response
* * *
**Information element** **Status** **Description**
Result M Success or failure.
SEALDD-S information Data transmission connection information O Address/port
and/or URL of the SEALDD server to receive the packets from the VAL server for
application traffic transfer
Cause O\ Indicates the reason for the failure, e.g. SEALDD policy mismatch.
See NOTE
NOTE: The IE is only present if the Result is failure.
* * *
#### 9.2.3.3 SEALDD regular transmission connection establishment request
Table 9.2.3.3-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD client to the
SEALDD server or from the SEALDD server to the SEALDD client for requesting
the regular SEALDD connection establishment.
Table 9.2.3.3-1: SEALDD regular transmission connection establishment request
+---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | **Information element** | **Status** | **Description** | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Requestor ID | M | Identity of the requestor | | | | (SEALDD client or SEALDD | | | | server). | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | SEALDD flow ID | M | Identity of the SEALDD | | | | flow. | | | (See NOTE) | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | VAL server ID | O | Identity of the VAL | | | | server, applicable for | | | | SEALDD client side | | | | initiated request. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | VAL service ID | O | Identity of the VAL | | | | service | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Selected VAL server | M | Endpoint of the selected | | endpoint | | VAL server | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | SEALDD traffic descriptor | O | SEALDD traffic descriptor | | | | (e.g. address, port, URL, | | | | transport layer protocol) | | | | of the SEALDD client side | | | | (for client side | | | | initiated request) or the | | | | SEALDD server side (for | | | | server side initiated | | | | request) used to | | | | establish SEALDD | | | | connection. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | VAL UE/user identity | O | The VAL user ID of the | | | | VAL user or VAL UE ID. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | SEALDD communication | O | Identifies the DD | | lifetime | | communication lifetime, | | | | applicable for SEALDD | | | | server side initiated | | | | request. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | NOTE: The SEALDD flow ID | | | | is used by the SEALDD | | | | client and SEALDD server | | | | to identify different | | | | application traffic, and | | | | it is mapped to the | | | | identifiers of the | | | | application traffic and | | | | data transmission | | | | session. | | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+
#### 9.2.3.4 SEALDD regular transmission connection establishment response
Table 9.2.3.4-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD server to the
SEALDD client or from the SEALDD client to the SEALDD server for responding to
the regular SEALDD connection establishment.
Table 9.2.3.4-1: SEALDD regular transmission connection establishment response
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | **Information element** | **Status** | **Description** | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Result | M | Indicates the success or | | | | failure of establishing | | | | the SEALDD connection. | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | SEALDD traffic | O | SEALDD traffic | | descriptor | | descriptor (e.g. | | | | address, port, URL, | | | | transport layer | | | | protocol) of the SEALDD | | | | server side (for client | | | | side initiated request) | | | | or the SEALDD client | | | | side (for server side | | | | initiated request) used | | | | to establish SEALDD | | | | connection. | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Pending timer | O | The pending timer to | | | | trigger the | | | (See NOTE 1) | re-connection from | | | | SEALDD client when | | | | bandwidth limit check is | | | | failed. | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Suggested traffic | O | The suggested traffic | | transmission bandwidth | | transmission bandwidth | | | (See NOTE 1) | used by SEALDD client or | | | | SEALDD server to perform | | | | bandwidth control for | | | | VAL users, including | | | | UL/DL. | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Cause | O\ | Indicates the reason for | | | See NOTE 2 | the failure, e.g. SEALDD | | | | policy mismatch. | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | NOTE 1: These IEs are | | | | used for the SEALDD | | | | enabled bandwidth | | | | control for different | | | | VAL users, applicable | | | | for client side | | | | initiated request. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: This IE is only | | | | present if the Result is | | | | failure | | | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
#### 9.2.3.5 SEALDD regular data transmission connection release request
Table 9.2.3.5-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD client to the
SEALDD server or from the SEALDD server to the SEALDD client for requesting
the SEALDD connection release.
Table 9.2.3.5-1: SEALDD regular data transmission connection release request
**Information element** **Status** **Description**
* * *
Requestor ID M Identity of the requestor (SEALDD client or SEALDD server).
SEALDD flow ID M Identifies the SEALDD flow.
#### 9.2.3.6 SEALDD regular data transmission connection release response
Table 9.2.3.6-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD server to the
SEALDD client or from the SEALDD client to the SEALDD server for responding
the SEALDD connection release request.
Table 9.2.3.6-1: SEALDD regular data transmission connection release response
**Information element** **Status** **Description**
* * *
Result M Result of the operation.
#### 9.2.3.7 SEALDD connection status subscription request
Table 9.2.3.7-1 describes the information flow from the VAL server to SEALDD
server to subscribe to SEALDD connection status information.
Table 9.2.3.7-1: SEALDD connection status subscription request
**Information element** **Status** **Description**
* * *
VAL server ID M Identity of the VAL server Event ID list M Identifies a list
of events such as establishment, release. VAL service ID O Identity of the VAL
service Identity O Identifier of VAL UE or VAL user. SEALDD-S Data
transmission connection information M Address/port of the VAL server to
send/receive the application packets to/from the SEALDD server.
#### 9.2.3.8 SEALDD connection status subscription response
Table 9.2.3.8-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD server to VAL
server for responding SEALDD connection status subscription request.
Table 9.2.3.8-1: SEALDD connection status subscription response
**Information element** **Status** **Description**
* * *
Result M Success or failure.
#### 9.2.3.9 SEALDD connection status notification
Table 9.2.3.9-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD server to the
VAL server to notify SEALDD connection status.
Table 9.2.3.9-1: SEALDD connection status notification
**Information element** **Status** **Description**
* * *
Event ID M Identifies event such as establishment, release Identity M
Identifier of VAL UE or VAL user. SEALDD connection establishment data O Data
related to SEALDD connection establishment. > SEALDD-S Data transmission
connection information M Address/port of the SEALDD server to send/receive the
application packets to/from the VAL server. > SEALDD communication lifetime O
Identifies the DD communication lifetime.
### 9.2.4 APIs
#### 9.2.4.1 General
Table 9.2.4.1-1 illustrates the APIs exposed by SEALDD server for regular
connection establishment.
Table 9.2.4.1-1: List of SEALDD server APIs for data distribution
**API Name** **API Operations** **Operation Semantics** **Consumer(s)**
* * *
Sdd_RegularTransmission Request Request/Response VAL server
Sdd_RegularTransmissionConnection Establish Request/Response SEALDD client
Release Request/Response SEALDD client Sdd_ConnectionStatusEvent Subscribe
Subscribe/Notify VAL server Notify Subscribe/Notify VAL server
#### 9.2.4.2 Sdd_RegularTransmission operation
**API operation name:** Sdd_RegularDataTransmission_Request
**Description:** The consumer requests for one time for SEALDD enabled regular
data transmission.
**Inputs:** See clause 9.2.3.1.
**Outputs:** See clause 9.2.3.2.
See clause 9.2.2.1 and 9.2.2.2 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.2.4.3 Sdd_RegularTransmissionConnection_Establish operation
**API operation name:** Sdd_RegularTransmissionConnection_Establish
**Description:** The consumer requests for one time for SEALDD enabled regular
data connection establishment.
**Inputs:** See clause 9.2.3.3.
**Outputs:** See clause 9.2.3.4.
See clause 9.2.2.1 and 9.2.2.2 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.2.4.4 Sdd_ConnectionStatusEvent_Subscribe operation
**API operation name:** Subscribe
**Description:** The consumer requests to subscribe to SEALDD connection
status event.
**Inputs:** See clause 9.2.3.7.
**Outputs:** See clause 9.2.3.8.
See clause 9.2.2.3 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.2.4.5 Sdd_ConnectionStatusEvent_Notify operation
**API operation name:** Notify
**Description:** The consumer is notified with SEALDD connection status.
**Inputs:** See clause 9.2.3.9.
**Outputs:** See clause 9.2.3.9.
See clause 9.2.2.3 and clause 9.2.2.4 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.2.4.6 Sdd_RegularTransmissionConnection_Release operation
**API operation name:** Sdd_RegularTransmissionConnection_Release
**Description:** The consumer requests to release the SEALDD connection
resources.
**Inputs:** See clause 9.2.3.5.
**Outputs:** See clause 9.2.3.6.
See clause 9.2.2.5 for details of usage of this operation.
## **9.3 SEALDD enabled E2E redundant transmission**
### 9.3.1 General
The following clauses specify procedures, information flow and APIs for SEALDD
enabled E2E redundant transmission.
SEALDD client and SEALDD server transfer SEALDD traffic via two redundant PDU
sessions as specified in clause 5.33.2.1 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [5].
Figure 9.3.1-1 shows the data traffic flow of E2E redundant transmission. For
uplink data delivery, VAL client sends application traffic to SEALDD client,
the SEALDD client duplicates the application packets and maps them into two
SEALDD traffic. Then the two SEALDD traffic are transferred to SEALDD server
via the two redundant PDU sessions shown in figure 9.3.1-1. The SEALDD server
eliminates the redundant packets and recovers the application traffic. The
recovered application traffic is transferred to VAL server by the SEALDD
server. For downlink data delivery, VAL server sends application traffic to
SEALDD server, the SEALDD server duplicates the application packets and maps
them into two SEALDD traffic. The two SEALDD traffic are transferred to UE via
the two redundant PDU sessions. The SEALDD client eliminates the redundant
SEALDD packets and recovers the application traffic, then sends the
application traffic to the VAL client.
Figure 9.3.1-1: E2E redundant transmission traffic flow
Figure 9.3.1-2 shows the data traffic flow of E2E redundant transmission for
multiple VAL servers. In this scenario, SEALDD server and SEALDD client use
different SEALDD flow IDs and SEALDD traffic descriptors to identify SEALDD
traffic for different VAL servers.
Figure 9.3.1-2: E2E redundant transmission traffic flow for multiple VAL
servers
For outbound data delivery, VAL application traffic is sent to SEALDD enabler
layer, the SEALDD enabler duplicates the application packets and maps them
into two SEALDD traffic (with the same Flow ID). Then according to the SEALDD
traffic descriptors of the SEALDD flow, the SEALDD traffic is sent out with
different destination addresses or ports and different source addresses or
ports. For inbound data delivery, two SEALDD traffic (with different source
addresses or ports and different destination addresses or ports) are received.
According to the SEALDD traffic descriptors, SEALDD enabler decides they
belong to the same Flow. Then after packet elimination and reordering, the two
SEALDD traffic is aggregated to one VAL application traffic.
### 9.3.2 Procedure
#### 9.3.2.1 E2E redundant transmission path establishment procedure
Figure 9.3.2.1-1 illustrates the procedure for redundant transmission
establishment. This procedure can be triggered by a VAL server for data
transfer per application layer transaction.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The VAL server has discovered and selected the SEALDD server by CAPIF
functions as specified in clause 9.4.2.
2\. The VAL server has established application connection with the VAL client
and can get the VAL client's UE ID or UE address via the application
connection.
Figure 9.3.2.1-1: E2E redundant transmission path establishment
1\. The VAL server decides to use SEALDD service to help ensuring data
transmission quality for application traffic transfer and send a
Sdd_URLLCTransmission request to the SEALDD server discovered by CAPIF. The
request includes UE ID/address, VAL server ID, VAL service ID, SEALDD-S Data
transmission connection information of the VAL server side, and optionally,
the QoS information for the application traffic, e.g. QoS requirements. The
VAL server ID and VAL service ID can be used to identify the VAL application
traffic.
2\. Upon receiving the request, the SEALDD server decides to establish
redundant transmission path. The SEALDD server allocates two different
addresses or ports for the two redundant transmission paths and sends an AF
request to 5GS to create or update URSP rules as described in clause 4.15.6.10
of 3GPP TS 23.502 [6] for the UE(s) going to use the redundant transmission
service. The AF request includes Identifiers of the UE(s) and application
traffic descriptor containing the addresses or ports allocated by SEALDD
server. The SEALDD server may send the AF request to provide the required QoS
information to 5GC via N33/N5, as defined in clause 5.2.6.9 and in clause
5.2.5.3 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [6].
3\. If the processing of the request was successful, SEALDD server allocates
address/port of the SEALDD server to receive the packets from the VAL server
for application data transfer as SEALDD-S data transmission connection
information of the SEALDD server side. The SEALDD server responds with a
SEALDD service response (including SEALDD-S data transmission connection
information of the SEALDD server side) and indicates to the VAL server that
redundant transmission service should be activated. The VAL server and SEALDD
server can use SEALDD-S data transmission connection information to establish
the data transmission connection between VAL server and SEALDD server for
application data transfer.
4\. If the redundant transmission requirement is not preconfigured or notified
to the VAL client, the VAL server may notify the VAL client(s) which is going
to use the redundant transmission service through application layer message.
NOTE 1: The application signalling may be transmitted via direct application
layer connection or via the SEALDD layer.
NOTE 2: The VAL client can be preconfigured that the VAL service should always
be transmitted via redundant transmission. Or this application layer
notification may be notified to the UE in another period before the VAL
application traffic is really transmitted.
5\. The VAL client sends a SEALDD service request to use E2E redundant
transmission for the application traffic.
6\. The SEALDD client discovers and selects the proper SEALDD server for the
VAL application as specified in clause 9.4.3. After this step, the SEALDD
client can get the SEALDD server\'s address.
7\. The SEALDD client allocates a SEALDD flow ID mapping to the application
traffic. The SEALDD client sends Sdd_URLLCTransmissionConnection_Establish
request to SEALDD server. The request includes the SEALDD client ID, SEALDD
flow ID, VAL server ID, VAL service ID for SEALDD server to identify the
specific application traffic.
8\. Upon receiving the request, the SEALDD server sends SEALDD traffic
descriptor for redundant transmission of the SEALDD server side (i.e. the
addresses or ports for the redundant transmission paths allocated in step 2
and the transport protocol used for the SEALDD traffic) to SEALDD client.
9\. The UE uses the SEALDD traffic descriptor of the SEALDD server and the
created or updated URSP rules to trigger two redundant PDU Sessions
establishment procedure via 5GS as specified in clause 5.33.2.1 of 3GPP TS
23.501 [5].
10\. [Optional] The SEALDD client sends Sdd_URLLCTransmissionConnection_Update
request to SEALDD server. The request includes the SEALDD client ID, the
SEALDD flow ID, the SEALDD traffic descriptors for redundant transmission of
the SEALDD client side (i.e. UE addresses and ports of the two redundant PDU
Sessions). The two redundant SEALDD traffic use the same SEALDD flow ID for
identification.
11\. [Optional] The SEALDD server sends a response to SEALDD client. After
this step, the SEALDD client and SEALDD server both get the whole SEALDD
traffic descriptors (including the UE\'s addresses/ports and SEALDD server\'s
addresses/ports for the SEALDD traffic transmission). The SEALDD client and
SEALDD server store the mapping between the application traffic and SEALDD
traffic.
12\. [Optional] If the connection between VAL server and SEALDD server is not
established in step 3, the SEALDD server establishes connection with VAL
server for the VAL client to transmit application traffic mapping to the
redundant SEALDD traffic according to the SEALDD-S information negotiated in
step 1-3
NOTE 3: Step 10 and Step 11 are optional. If the redundant PDU sessions are
already established before step 7, the IP addresses of the UE may be notified
to the SEALDD server in step 7. In other cases, after the establishment of the
two redundant PDU sessions, the SEALDD client may communicate with SEALDD
server through the redundant PDU sessions to let the SEALDD server know the
UE\'s address(es) of the redundant PDU session to fulfil the traffic mapping
or the SEALDD client and SEALDD server may use other mapping mechanisms, it is
up to the transport protocol used by SEALDD client and SEALDD server for the
SEALDD traffic.
13\. The SEALDD client responds with a SEALDD service response.
After the negotiation and establishment of the connections, the SEALDD client
gets the mapping information between the application traffic and SEALDD flow
ID. The SEALDD server gets the mapping information between the SEALDD flow ID
and the SEALDD-S connection. Upon receiving application traffic from VAL
client, the SEALDD client duplicates the application packets and maps them
into two SEALDD traffic flows with SEALDD traffic descriptors as negotiated
with SEALDD server in step 8 and step 10. The two SEALDD traffic is sent
through two redundant PDU sessions to the SEALDD server. The SEALDD server
maps the two SEALDD traffic to the same application traffic according to the
stored SEALDD traffic descriptors, SEALDD client ID and SEALDD flow ID. After
packet elimination and reordering the SEALDD server sends the aggregated
application traffic to VAL server via the connection established in step 3
according to the mapping information. The downlink application traffic sent
from VAL server to VAL client is processed similarly.
#### 9.3.2.2 Client initiated E2E redundant transmission path establishment
procedure
Figure 9.3.2.2-1 illustrates the procedure for client initiated redundant
transmission establishment for data transfer per application layer
transaction.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The SEALDD client is authorized to request redundant transmission services
on behalf of the VAL client when the VAL client initiates redundant
transmission service.
Figure 9.3.2.2-1: Client initiated E2E redundant transmission path
establishment
1\. A VAL client determines to use SEALDD service to ensure that the data
transmission quality for the application traffic is met and makes a service
request to the SEALDD client.
2\. Upon receiving the request, the SEALDD client decides to establish
redundant transmission path according to the QoS requirements. The SEALDD
client discovers and selects the proper SEALDD server for the VAL application
as specified in clause 9.4.3.
3\. The SEALDD client sends a request to the SEALDD server to configure
redundant transport for the application traffic. The SEALDD client allocates a
SEALDD flow ID mapping to the application traffic. The SEALDD client sends
Sdd_URLLCTransmissionConnection_Establish request to SEALDD server. The
request includes the SEALDD client ID, the SEALDD flow ID, the application ID,
the UE ID/address, the VAL server ID/address, the QoS requirements, the UE
location, and a request for redundant transport.
4\. The SEALDD server allocates IP addresses and ports for the redundant
transport paths and initiates the AF traffic influence procedure with the 5G
network to create or update URSP rules for the UE. The request includes the UE
ID and application descriptor for the application traffic. The UE receives the
new or updated URSP rules from the 5G core network.
5\. The SEALDD server responds to the SEALDD client providing the
configuration status. The response includes the IP addresses and ports for the
redundant transmission paths allocated in step 4. The SEALDD client and SEALDD
server store the mapping between the application traffic and SEALDD traffic.
6\. The UE establishes redundant PDU sessions with the 5G network using the
new or updated URSP rules as specified in clause 5.33.2.1 of 3GPP TS 23.501
[5].
7\. [Optional] The SEALDD client sends Sdd_URLLCTransmissionConnection_Update
request to SEALDD server. The request includes the SEALDD client ID, the
SEALDD flow ID, the application traffic descriptors for redundant transmission
of the SEALDD client side (i.e. UE addresses and ports of the two redundant
PDU Sessions). The two redundant SEALDD traffic use the same SEALDD flow ID
for identification.
8\. [Optional] The SEALDD server establishes connection with VAL server for
the VAL client to transmit application traffic mapping to the redundant SEALDD
traffic. The SEALDD server sends a response to the SEALDD client. After this
step, the SEALDD client and SEALDD server both get the application traffic
descriptors (including the UE\'s addresses/ports and SEALDD server\'s
addresses/ports for the SEALDD traffic transmission). The SEALDD client and
SEALDD server store the mapping between the application traffic and SEALDD
traffic.
9\. The SEALDD client responds with a SEALDD service response.
NOTE: Details of the VAL client service request in step 1 and the
corresponding response in step 9 are out of scope of the current
specification.
The VAL client sends application traffic to the SEALDD client, which
duplicates the application data on the redundant PDU sessions. The SEALDD
server receives the redundant traffic and reassembles the data to send to the
VAL server. Similarly, the SEALDD server duplicates downlink traffic from the
VAL server and sends the data to the SEALDD client on the redundant PDU
sessions. The SEALDD client eliminates the redundant data and reassembles data
to send to the VAL client.
### 9.3.3 Information flows
#### 9.3.3.1 SEALDD URLLC transmission request
See clause 9.2.3.1 for the details of information flow with the following
clarification:
\- The bandwidth related IEs are not applicable.
#### 9.3.3.2 SEALDD URLLC transmission response
See clause 9.2.3.2 for the details of information flow.
#### 9.3.3.3 SEALDD URLLC transmission connection establishment request
Table 9.3.3.3-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD client to the
SEALDD server for requesting the URLLC transmission connection establishment.
Table 9.3.3.3-1: SEALDD URLLC transmission connection establishment request
+---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | SEALDD client ID | M | Identity of the SEALDD | | | | client. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | VAL UE/user identity | O | The VAL user ID of the | | | | VAL user or VAL UE ID | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | SEALDD flow ID | M | Identity of the SEALDD | | | | flow. | | | (See NOTE) | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | VAL server ID | O | Identity of the VAL | | | | server. | | | (See NOTE) | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | VAL service ID | O | Identity of the VAL | | | | service. | | | (See NOTE) | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | SEALDD traffic | O | A pair of SEALDD traffic | | descriptors | | descriptors (e.g. | | | | address, port, transport | | | | layer protocol) of the | | | | SEALDD client side used | | | | to establish redundant | | | | SEALDD connection. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | NOTE: The SEALDD flow ID | | | | is used by the SEALDD | | | | client and SEALDD server | | | | to identify different | | | | application traffic, and | | | | it is mapped from the VAL | | | | service ID. | | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+
#### 9.3.3.4 SEALDD URLLC transmission connection establishment response
Table 9.3.3.4-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD server to the
SEALDD client for responding to the URLLC transmission connection
establishment.
Table 9.3.3.4-1: SEALDD URLLC transmission connection establishment response
* * *
Information element Status Description
Result M Indicates the success or failure of establishing the SEALDD
connection.
SEALDD traffic descriptors O A pair of SEALDD traffic descriptors (e.g.
address, port, transport layer protocol) of the SEALDD server side used to
establish redundant SEALDD connection.
Cause O\ Indicates the reason for the failure, e.g. SEALDD policy mismatch.
See NOTE
NOTE: The IE is only present if the Result is failure
* * *
#### 9.3.3.5 SEALDD URLLC transmission connection update request
Table 9.3.3.5-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD client to the
SEALDD server for requesting the URLLC transmission connection update.
Table 9.3.3.5-1: SEALDD URLLC transmission connection update request
+---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | SEALDD client ID | M | Identity of the SEALDD | | | | client. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | SEALDD flow ID | M | Identity of the SEALDD | | | | flow. | | | (See NOTE) | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | VAL server ID | O | Identity of the VAL | | | | server. | | | (See NOTE) | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | VAL service ID | O | Identity of the VAL | | | | service. | | | (See NOTE) | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | SEALDD traffic | O | A pair of SEALDD traffic | | descriptors | | descriptors (e.g. | | | | address, port, transport | | | | layer protocol) of the | | | | SEALDD client side used | | | | to establish redundant | | | | SEALDD connection. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | NOTE: The SEALDD flow ID | | | | is used by the SEALDD | | | | client and SEALDD server | | | | to identify different | | | | application traffic, and | | | | it is mapped from the VAL | | | | service ID. | | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+
#### 9.3.3.6 SEALDD URLLC transmission connection update response
Table 9.3.3.6-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD server to the
SEALDD client for responding to the redundant transmission connection update.
Table 9.3.3.6-1: SEALDD URLLC transmission connection update response
* * *
Information element Status Description
Result M Indicates the success or failure of updating the SEALDD connection.
Cause O\ Indicates the reason for the failure, e.g. SEALDD policy mismatch.
See NOTE
NOTE: The IE is only present if the Result is failure
* * *
### 9.3.4 APIs
#### 9.3.4.1 General
Table 9.3.4.1-1 illustrates the APIs exposed by SEALDD server for URLLC
transmission.
Table 9.3.4.1-1: List of SEALDD server APIs for redundant transmission
API Name API Operations Operation Semantics Consumer(s)
* * *
Sdd_URLLCTransmission Request Request/Response VAL server
Sdd_URLLCTransmissionConnnection_Establish Request Request/Response SEALDD
client Sdd_URLLCTransmissionConnnection_Update Request Request/Response SEALDD
client
#### 9.3.4.2 Sdd_URLLCTransmission Request operation
**API operation name:** Sdd_URLLCTransmission Request
**Description:** The consumer requests for one time for URLLC transmission
service.
**Inputs:** See clause 9.3.3.1.
**Outputs:** See clause 9.3.3.2
See clause 9.3.2.1 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.3.4.3 Sdd_URLLCTransmissionConnection_Establish Request operation
**API operation name:** Sdd_URLLCTransmissionConnection_Establish Request
**Description:** The consumer requests for one time for URLLC transmission
connection establishment.
**Inputs:** See clause 9.3.3.3.
**Outputs:** See clause 9.3.3.4.
See clause 9.3.2.1 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.3.4.4 Sdd_URLLCTransmissionConnection_Update Request operation
**API operation name:** Sdd_URLLCTransmissionConnection_Update Request
**Description:** The consumer requests for one time for URLLC transmission
connection update.
**Inputs:** See clause 9.3.3.5.
**Outputs:** See clause 9.3.3.6.
See clause 9.3.2.1 for details of usage of this operation.
## **9.4 SEALDD server discovery and selection**
### 9.4.1 General
The following clauses specify procedures, information flow and APIs for SEALDD
server discovery and selection for VAL server and SEALDD client.
There are two scenarios of how SEALDD service is used:
\- Scenario (a): SEALDD service is used for both signalling and data traffic
transfer.
\- Scenario (b): SEALDD service is used only for data traffic transfer.
NOTE: For the same VAL application, VAL servers for Scenario (a) and Scenario
(b) and VAL servers without SEALDD service may coexist in the same EDN. The
three types of servers may use different EAS IDs or other information (e.g.
EAS service, additional associated SEALDD server information) to differentiate
each other for EAS discovery.
### 9.4.2 SEALDD server discovery and selection for VAL server
#### 9.4.2.1 General
CAPIF architecture and functionalities can be reused to enable VAL server
discover and select SEALDD server.
#### 9.4.2.2 Procedure
The SEALDD server and VAL server may support CAPIF as shown in Figure
9.4.2.2-1. When CAPIF is supported:
\- The SEALDD server shall support the CAPIF API provider domain functions
(i.e. CAPIF-2/2e (SEALDD-S interface), CAPIF-3/3e, CAPIF-4/4e and CAPIF-5/5e
as specified in 3GPP TS 23.222 [3]);
\- The VAL server shall act as API invoker and support the API invoker
functions (i.e. CAPIF-1/1e and CAPIF-2/2e (SEALDD-S interface) as specified in
3GPP TS 23.222 [3]); and
\- The SEALDD server shall act as API invoker and support the API invoker
functions (i.e. CAPIF-1/1e and CAPIF-2/2e (SEALDD-E interface) as specified in
3GPP TS 23.222 [3]).
Figure 9.4.2.2-1: SEALDD adaptation in the CAPIF architecture
The VAL server can discover a proper SEALDD server from CAPIF core function
with different discovery filters, e.g. expected AEF location. If a VAL server
is changed during UE mobility, a new SEALDD server may be discovered and
selected.This is also applicable for EAS to discover and select an SEALDD
server to use SEALDD-S services, if any.
### 9.4.3 SEALDD server discovery and selection for SEALDD client
#### 9.4.3.1 General
The VAL client can use existing mechanisms (e.g. DNS query mechanism,
application layer signalling mechanism) to find an appropriate SEALDD server
in non-EDN scenario and EDN scenario. The VAL client can provide the SEALDD
server information to the SEALDD client when the SEALDD service is required.
NOTE: DNS query mechanism and application layer signalling mechanism are
outside the scope of SA6.
The EAS registration procedure of 3GPP TS 23.558 [10] can be enhanced to
enable VAL/SEALDD client to discover and select proper SEALDD server in EDN
scenario.
#### 9.4.3.2 EDN scenario
##### 9.4.3.2.1 VAL server registered to EES with associated SEALDD server
address as VAL server endpoint
Figure 9.4.3.2.1-1: VAL server registered to EES with associated SEALDD server
address as VAL server endpoint
1\. The VAL server can discover and select the SEALDD server (e.g. by CAPIF
functions).
2\. The VAL server decides to use SEALDD service to enhance data transmission
and send a regular SEALDD data transmission subscription request to the SEALDD
server.
3\. Upon receiving the request, the SEALDD server performs an authorization
check and responds with a regular SEALDD data transmission subscription
response.
4\. The VAL server (as an EAS) registers to the EES as described in clause
8.4.3.2.2 of 3GPP TS 23.558 [10] with the associated SEALDD server address as
EAS Endpoint in the EAS profile. The EAS ID used by VAL server in registration
may indicate the application service association between the VAL service and
SEALDD service implicitly or explicitly.
This procedure reuses the current procedure described in clause 8.4.3.2.2 of
3GPP TS 23.558 [10]. The VAL server (as an EAS) registers to the EES with the
associated SEALDD server address as the EAS Endpoint in the EAS profile. Then
the EEC can use the EAS discovery procedure defined in clause 8.5 of 3GPP TS
23.558 [10] to find the VAL server\'s address which is SEALDD server\'s
address. The VAL client can initiate SEALDD service via SEALDD client with the
SEALDD server\'s address. This procedure can be used for scenario (a).
##### 9.4.3.2.2 EAS registered to EES with associated SEALDD server
information
Figure 9.4.3.2.2-1: EAS register to EES with associated SEALDD server
information
1\. The SEALDD server (as an EAS) registered to EES with SEALDD profile (i.e.
EAS profile) as an API provider.
2\. The EAS (VAL) server can discover and select the SEALDD server (e.g. by
CAPIF functions).
3\. The EAS (VAL server) decides to use SEALDD service to enhance data
transmission and send a regular SEALDD data transmission subscription request
to the SEALDD server.
4\. Upon receiving the request, the SEALDD server performs an authorization
check and responds with a regular SEALDD data transmission subscription
response.
5\. The VAL server (as an EAS) registers to the EES as described in clause
8.4.3.2.2 of 3GPP TS 23.558 [10] with the associated SEALDD server information
(i.e. SEALDD service and SEALDD server address) as associated EAS ID and EAS
Endpoint in the EAS profile.
This procedure reuses the current procedure described in clause 8.4.3.2.2 of
3GPP TS 23.558 [10]. The VAL server (as an EAS) registers to the EES with the
associated SEALDD server information (i.e. SEALDD service and SEALDD server
address) as associated EAS ID and EAS Endpoint in the EAS profile. Then the
EEC can use the EAS discovery procedure defined in clause 8.5 of 3GPP TS
23.558 [10] to find the VAL server\'s address and associated SEALDD server\'s
address. The VAL client can initiate SEALDD service via SEALDD client with the
SEALDD server\'s address. For scenario (b), the VAL client can also establish
the connection with VAL server using the VAL server\'s information for
application signalling transfer and only use the SEALDD connection for
application data transfer.
##### 9.4.3.2.3 VAL server and SEALDD server registered to EES
Figure 9.4.3.2.3-1: VAL server and SEALDD server registered to EES
1\. The VAL server (acting as an EAS) registers to the EES.
2\. The SEALDD server (acting as an EAS) registers to the EES.
3\. The EEC performs service provisioning procedure as described in clause
8.3.3.2.2 of 3GPP TS 23.558 [10]. The EEC is responded with the EES which
supports the SEALDD server and the VAL server. The EEC sends the EAS discovery
request for EAS bundle including VAL service and SEALDD service. The EES may
collect the performance of VAL server and SEALDD server (e.g. E2E latency
between the SEALDD server and client and load information of SEALDD and VAL
server) from the ADAE server when receiving the EAS discovery request.
NOTE: It is assumed that the ADAE sever can collect load and transmission
quality information from EAS.
4\. The EES identifies the VAL server and the associated SEALDD server based
on the performance of VAL server and the performance of SEALDD server (e.g. to
satisfy the AC service KPI).
5\. The EES sends the EAS discovery response to EEC, including the SEALDD
server address, the VAL server address.
Upon receiving the SEALDD server address, the VAL server address, the VAL
client can initiate SEALDD service via SEALDD client with the SEALDD server\'s
address. The data transmission between the VAL client and the VAL server can
be enabled via the SEALDD connection, as specified in clause 9.2.2.
### **9.4.4 Information flows**
The information flow about the SEALDD server discovery for VAL server/SEALDD
server can reuse the defined information flow in CAPIF (e.g. service API
publish in clause 8.3.2, Service API discover in clause 8.7.2), as specified
in 3GPP TS 23.222 [3].
For SEALDD server discovery for VAL client in EDN scenario, the information
flows for EAS registration and EAS discovery in caluse 8.4.3.3 and clause
8.5.3 of 3GPP TS 23.558 [10].
The information flow about regular SEALDD data transmission subscription can
refer to the SEALDD enabled regular transmission request/response in clauses
9.2.3.1 and 9.2.3.2.
### 9.4.5 APIs
The APIs about SEALDD server discovery for VAL server/SEALDD server can reuse
the defined APIs in CAPIF (e.g. CAPIF_Publish_Service_API in clause 10.3,
CAPIF_Discover_Service _API in clause 10.2), as specified in 3GPP TS 23.222
[3].
The APIs about SEALDD server discovery for VAL client in EDN scenario, can
reuse the defined APIs in EDGEAPP (e.g. Eees_EASRegistration API in clause
8.4.3.4, Eees_EASDiscovery API in clause 8.5.4), as specified in 3GPP TS
23.558 [10].
The APIs about regular SEALDD data transmission subscription can refer to the
Sdd_RegularTransmission API, as defined in clause 9.2.4.
## **9.5 SEALDD enabled data storage**
### 9.5.1 General
The following clauses specify procedures, information flows and APIs for
SEALDD enabled data storage, the stored data can be queried by the creator or
the other network functions for context or content transfer.
### 9.5.2 Procedure
#### 9.5.2.1 Data storage creation
Pre-conditions:
1\. The VAL server has discovered and selected the SEALDD server by CAPIF
functions.
2\. The SEALDD client has discovered and selected the SEALDD server as
specified in clause 9.4.3.
Figure 9.5.2.1-1: Storage service creation
1\. The VAL client/server determines to use SEALDD storage service, which
could store/host data on behalf of the VAL client/server. The consumer (e.g.
SEALDD client, VAL server) send a Sdd_DataStorage_Creation request to the
SEALDD server. The request includes the data to be stored and information
associated with the data, such as access control policy, expiration time of
the storage, etc. The consumer may also specify in the request the management
or status information of the data storage that is required (e.g., information
about how often the stored data is accessed or managed).
NOTE 1: If the VAL client determines to use SEALDD storage service, the
request is first sent to the SEALDD client hosted on the same UE, and then the
SEALDD client send the Sdd_DataStorage_Creation request to the SEALDD server.
NOTE 2: The detailed request between VAL client and SEALDD client is out of
scope of this release of this specification.
2\. The SEALDD server checks for the authorization of the storage service
creation request. If the request is successfully authorized, then the SEALDD
server configures the storage service based on the request and stores the data
at the storage server. If status information of the stored data is requested,
the SEALDD server will start to monitor the status of the stored data, such as
to track the accesses to the data for the data access status.
3\. The SEALDD server sends a response to the requesting consumer (e.g. SEALDD
client, VAL server). The response indicates if the request is accepted and the
identifier of the stored data (if applicable). Upon receiving the response,
the requesting consumer may create a record for the stored data.
#### 9.5.2.2 Data storage reservation
Pre-conditions:
1\. The VAL server has discovered and selected the SEALDD server by CAPIF
functions.
2\. The SEALDD client has discovered and selected the SEALDD server as
specified in clause 9.4.3.
Figure 9.5.2.2-1: Storage service reservation
1\. The consumer (e.g. SEALDD client, VAL server) send a
Sdd_DataStorage_Creation request to the SEALDD server. The request includes
the VAL service ID and the data length.
2\. The SEALDD server checks for the authorization of the storage service
Creation request. If the request is successfully authorized, then the SEALDD
server allocates and reserves the address for data storage.
3\. The SEALDD server sends a response to the requesting consumer (e.g. SEALDD
client, VAL server). The response indicates if the request is accepted and the
address for data storage. Upon receiving the response, the stored data may be
delivered via push mode from the requesting consumer to the SEALDD server.
#### 9.5.2.3 Data storage query
Pre-conditions:
1\. VAL client/server has stored data in SEALDD server.
2\. The consumer (e.g. SEALDD client/VAL server/other SEALDD server)
requesting the stored data has got the identifier of the stored data (e.g. via
application layer signalling or other mechanisms).
Figure 9.5.2.3-1: Access to stored data in SEALDD server
1\. The consumer (e.g. SEALDD client/VAL server/other SEALDD server) sends a
Sdd_DataStorage_Query request to the SEALDD server with the identifier of the
stored data.
NOTE: The consumer requesting for the stored data can be the data storage
creator or other network functions.
2\. Upon receiving the request, the SEALDD server performs an authorization
check to verify if the requested data (according to the data access control
policy) can be accessed by the consumer. The SEALDD server will also check
whether the stored data is expired.
3\. If the verification was successful, the SEALDD server responds with the
requested data.
#### 9.5.2.4 Data storage management
Pre-conditions:
1\. The SEALDD service is configured to track and maintain data storage access
information (i.e. status information).
2\. A storage service creation request procedure from the consumer (e.g.
SEALDD client, VAL server) to the SEALDD server has been performed. The
request includes a subscription to data storage access information (i.e.
status information).
Figure 9.5.2.4-1: Storage management procedure
1\. Based on the received stored data status information, the requesting
consumer (e.g. SEALDD client, VAL server) determines to perform a management
operation, such as to update, refresh, or delete the stored data. The VAL
client/server sends a Sdd_DataStorage_Management request to the SEALDD server
to perform the determined management operation.
2\. The SEALDD server processes the storage management request. If the request
is accepted, the SEALDD server performs the required management operation on
the stored data.
NOTE: Based on the data management or storage status information available in
SEALDD server as per the procedure in clause 9.5.2.1, the SEALDD server may
send a notification to the requester (e.g. SEALDD client, VAL server) with the
collected management or storage status information.
3\. The SEALDD server sends a response to the requesting consumer (e.g. SEALDD
client, VAL server) with the result of the management operation, which may
include updated information of the stored data.
#### 9.5.2.5 Stored data transfer between VAL servers via SEALDD server
Pre-conditions:
1\. The source VAL server already obtains the serving target SEALDD server of
the target VAL server.
2\. The source VAL server may have stored data to the source SEALDD server and
obtained the identifier of the stored data by invoking
Sdd_DataStorage_Creation API in clause 9.5.2.1.
Figure 9.5.2.5-1: Stored data transfer procedure between VAL servers
1\. The VAL server sends a SEALDD data storage delivery subscription request
to its serving SEALDD server with the VAL server information, and the VAL
server address to receive the stored data delivery.
2\. The SEALDD sever responds to the requested VAL server with the
subscription result, if successful, the response includes the subscription ID,
expiration time.
3\. The source VAL server determines to use the stored data transfer service
provided by the serving SEALDD server. The source VAL server invokes a SEALDD
data storage delivery request, the request includes the identifier of the
stored data needed to be delivered, or the stored data (i.e., the source VAL
server does not use data storage creation to store data to the source SEALDD
server before), the target VAL server information and the target SEALDD server
information.
4\. The source SEALDD server sends a SEALDD delivery connection establish
request towards the target SEALDD server with the source SEALDD server
information, the target VAL server information, and the supporting transport
layer protocols for data delivery.
5\. The target SEALDD server responds to the source SEALDD server with the
traffic descriptor of target SEALDD server (e.g. address/port, transport layer
protocol). The target SEALDD server may allocate the storage for the target
VAL server.
NOTE: The transport layer protocol between SEALDD server connection can be
different depending on the specific application scenarios, compared with the
connection between SEALDD client and SEALDD server in clause 9.2.
6\. Upon receiving the traffic descriptor of target SEALDD server, the source
SEALDD server sends the requested data corresponding to the identifier of the
stored data to the target SEALDD server.
7\. The source SEALDD server responds to the source VAL server with the result
of data delivery.
8\. The target SEALDD server sends the received data to the target VAL server
via the notification message. Optionally, the target SEALDD server may only
send the identifier of the received data to the target VAL server in the
notification message, the target VAL server can obtain the stored data
originated from the source VAL server, by invoking the Sdd_DataStorage_Query
API to the target SEALDD server, as specified in clause 9.5.2.2.
### **9.5.3 Information flows**
#### 9.5.3.1 SEALDD data storage creation request
Table 9.5.3.1-1 describes the information flow from the requesting consumer
(e.g., VAL server, SEALDD client) to the SEALDD server for requesting the data
storage creation.
Table 9.5.3.1-1: SEALDD data storage creation request
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +==========================+==============+==========================+ | Application data | M | The application data | | | | needed to be stored in | | | (See NOTE 1) | the SEALDD server | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Access control policy | O | The control policy for | | | | the requested data | | | (See NOTE 1) | access from other | | | | consumers (e.g. SEALDD | | | | client, VAL server, | | | | other SEALDD server) | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Storage expiration time | O | The expiration time for | | | | the stored data | | | (See NOTE 1) | | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Storage management or | O | Management or status | | status information | | information of the | | | (See NOTE 1) | stored data to be | | | | tracked or monitored by | | | | SEALDD server (e.g. | | | | statistics of the stored | | | | data, Indications of how | | | | often the stored data is | | | | accessed or managed) for | | | | corresponding | | | | notifications. | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | VAL service ID | M | Identify of the data | | | | type to be stored, e.g. | | | (See NOTE 2) | video, voice | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Data length | O | Identify of the data | | | | length to be stored | | | (See NOTE 2) | | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | NOTE 1: These IEs are | | | | used for stroing | | | | application data to the | | | | SEALDD server directly, | | | | as specified in clause | | | | 9.5.2.1. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: These IEs are | | | | used for requesting the | | | | SEALDD server to reserve | | | | the data storage | | | | resource and address, as | | | | specified in clause | | | | 9.5.2.2. | | | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
#### 9.5.3.2 SEALDD data storage creation response
Table 9.5.3.2-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD server to the
requesting consumer (e.g., VAL server, SEALDD client) for responding the data
storage creation request.
Table 9.5.3.2-1: SEALDD data storage creation response
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +==========================+==============+==========================+ | Result | M | Success or failure. | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Identifier of the stored | O | Identify of the stored | | data | | data | | | (See NOTE 1) | | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Address for data storage | O | The reserved address for | | | | data storage | | | (See NOTE 2) | | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | NOTE 1: This IE is used | | | | for returning the | | | | identifier of the stored | | | | data, as specified in | | | | clause 9.5.2.1. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: This IE is used | | | | for returning the | | | | reserved address for | | | | data storage, as | | | | specified in clause | | | | 9.5.2.2. | | | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
#### 9.5.3.3 SEALDD data storage status notification
Table 9.5.3.3-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD server to the
requesting consumer (e.g., VAL server, SEALDD client) for sending
notifications of the data storage status, as configured in the data storage
creation request.
Table 9.5.3.3-1: SEALDD data storage status notification
Information element Status Description
* * *
Management or status information of stored data M The management or status
information of the stored data requested in the storage creation request.
#### 9.5.3.4 SEALDD data storage query request
Table 9.5.3.4-1 describes the information flow from the requesting consumer
(e.g., SEALDD client, VAL server, other SEALDD server) to the SEALDD server
for requesting the data storage query.
Table 9.5.3.4-1: SEALDD data storage query request
Information element Status Description
* * *
Identifier of the stored data M Identify the stored data queried by the
requesting consumer
#### 9.5.3.5 SEALDD data storage query response
Table 9.5.3.5-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD server to the
requesting consumer (e.g., SEALDD client, VAL server, other SEALDD server) for
responding the data storage query request.
Table 9.5.3.5-1: SEALDD data storage query response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Result M Success or failure. The queried application data O The queried
application data returned to the requesting consumer
#### 9.5.3.6 SEALDD data storage management request
Table 9.5.3.6-1 describes the information flow from the requesting consumer
(e.g., SEALDD client, VAL server) to the SEALDD server for requesting the data
storage management.
Table 9.5.3.6-1: SEALDD data storage management request
Information element Status Description
* * *
Storage management operation M The operation (e.g. update, refresh, or delete)
to manage the stored data
#### 9.5.3.7 SEALDD data storage management response
Table 9.5.3.7-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD server to the
requesting consumer (e.g., VAL server, SEALDD client) for responding the data
storage management request.
Table 9.5.3.7-1: SEALDD data storage management response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Result M Success or failure. The updated information of stored data O The
updated management or status information of the stored data
#### 9.5.3.8 SEALDD data storage delivery subscription request
Table 9.5.3.8-1 describes the information flow from the VAL server to the
SEALDD server for data storage delivery subscription.
Table 9.5.3.8-1: SEALDD data storage delivery subscription request
Information element Status Description
* * *
VAL server information M Identify the requested VAL server to subscribe data
delivery VAL server address M Address/port of the VAL server to receive the
data delivery from the SEALDD server
#### 9.5.3.9 SEALDD data storage delivery subscription response
Table 9.5.3.9-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD server to the
VAL server for responding the data storage delivery subscription request.
Table 9.5.3.9-1: SEALDD data storage delivery subscription response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Result M Success or failure. Subscription ID O Subscription identifier
corresponding to the subscription. Expiration time O Indicates the expiration
time of the subscription.
#### 9.5.3.10 SEALDD data storage delivery notification
Table 9.5.3.10-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD server to the
VAL server for notifying the received stored data.
Table 9.5.3.9-1: SEALDD data storage delivery notification
+---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +===========================+============+===========================+ | Subscription ID | M | Subscription identifier | | | | corresponding to the | | | | subscription. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Stored data | O | The received data | | | | corresponding to the VAL | | | (See NOTE) | server | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Identifier of the stored | O | Identify of the received | | data | | stored data in SEALDD | | | (See NOTE) | server | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | NOTE: One of these IEs | | | | shall be present in the | | | | message. | | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+
#### 9.5.3.11 SEALDD data storage delivery request
Table 9.5.3.11-1 describes the information flow from the VAL server to the
SEALDD server for requesting the data storage delivery.
Table 9.5.3.11-1: SEALDD data storage delivery request
+---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +===========================+============+===========================+ | Target VAL server | M | Identify the target VAL | | information | | server | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Target SEALDD server | O | Identify the target | | information | | SEALDD server | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Identifier of the stored | O | Identify of the stored | | data | | data needed to be | | | (See NOTE) | delivered | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Stored data | O | The data from the VAL | | | | server | | | (See NOTE) | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | NOTE: One of these IEs | | | | shall be present in the | | | | message. | | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+
#### 9.5.3.12 SEALDD data storage delivery response
Table 9.5.3.12-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD server to the
VAL server for responding the data storage delivery request.
Table 9.5.3.12-1: SEALDD data storage delivery response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Result M Success or failure.
### 9.5.4 APIs
#### 9.5.4.1 General
Table 9.5.4.1-1 illustrates the APIs exposed by SEALDD server for data
storage.
Table 9.5.4.1-1: List of SEALDD server APIs for data storage
API Name API Operations Operation Semantics Consumer(s)
* * *
Sdd_ DataStorage_Creation Request Request/Response SEALDD client, VAL server
Sdd_ DataStorage_Query Request Request/Response SEALDD client, VAL server,
other SEALDD server Sdd_ DataStorage_Management Request Request/Response
SEALDD client, VAL server Sdd_DataStorage_Delivery_Subscription Request
Request/Response VAL server Sdd_DataStorage_Delivery_notification Notify
Subscribe/notify VAL server Sdd_DataStorage_Delivery Request Request/Response
VAL server
#### 9.5.4.2 Sdd_DataStorage_Creation Request operation
**API operation name:** Sdd_DataStorage_Creation Request
**Description:** The consumer requests for one time for data storage creation
or data storage reservation.
**Inputs:** See clause 9.5.3.1.
**Outputs:** See clause 9.5.3.2
See clause 9.5.2.1 and clause 9.5.2.2 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.5.4.3 Sdd_DataStorage_Query Request operation
**API operation name:** Sdd_DataStorage_Query Request
**Description:** The consumer requests for one time for data storage query.
**Inputs:** See clause 9.5.3.4.
**Outputs:** See clause 9.5.3.5.
See clause 9.5.2.3 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.5.4.4 Sdd_DataStorage_Management Request operation
**API operation name:** Sdd_DataStorage_Management Request
**Description:** The consumer requests for one time for data storage
management.
**Inputs:** See clause 9.5.3.6.
**Outputs:** See clause 9.5.3.7.
See clause 9.5.2.4 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.5.4.5 Sdd_DataStorage_Delivery_Subscription Request operation
**API operation name:** Sdd_DataStorage_Delivery_Subscription Request
**Description:** The consumer requests for one time for data storage delivery
subscription.
**Inputs:** See clause 9.5.3.8.
**Outputs:** See clause 9.5.3.9.
See clause 9.5.2.5 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.5.4.6 Sdd_DataStorage_Delivery_Notification operation
**API operation name:** Sdd_DataStorage_Delivery_Notification
**Description:** The consumer is notified with the received stored data from
SEALDD server.
**Inputs:** See clause 9.5.3.10.
**Outputs:** None.
See clause 9.5.2.5 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.5.4.7 Sdd_DataStorage_Delivery Request operation
**API operation name:** Sdd_DataStorage_Delivery Request
**Description:** The consumer requests for one time for data storage delivery.
**Inputs:** See clause 9.5.3.11.
**Outputs:** See clause 9.5.3.12.
See clause 9.5.2.5 for details of usage of this operation.
## **9.6 SEALDD server relocation**
### 9.6.1 General
The SEALDD server may be relocated due to UE mobility or load re-balance.
If SEALDD server is adapted to EDGEAPP as an EAS, the EAS relocation procedure
can be used to support SEALDD server relocation for both UE mobility and
SEALDD server load re-balance. If SEALDD is not adapted to EDGEAPP, for UE
mobility, the SEALDD client can discover (e.g. using DNS) a new SEALDD server
in the target area and establish a new SEALDD communication channel including
the old SEALDD communication channel information. For load re-balance, the
SEALDD server can discover (e.g. using DNS) an equivalent SEALDD server and
communicate with the new SEALDD server.
Based on existing service continuity mechanism supported by 3GPP core network
(e.g. BP/ULCL), during SEALDD server relocation with UPF change, the new UPF
takes care of the existing unfinished application traffic flow towards the old
VAL server and inter-UPF tunnel is used to forward the traffic. For new
application traffic flow which may have UE\'s new IP address as source IP
address, the new SEALDD server sends it directly to the new VAL server.
For SEALDD server relocation, the inter-SEALDD server communication via
SEALDD-E reference point is needed, which transfers the SEALDD context from
the old SEALDD server to the new SEALDD server.
The following procedures detail the EDGEAPP ACT part between old SEALDD server
(i.e. S-EAS) and new SEALDD server (i.e. T-EAS) as described in 3GPP TS 23.558
[10], clause 8.8.2.2 to clause 8.8.2.6. Also, a high-level flow is provided to
show the scenario used in EDN.
NOTE 1: The way to provide SEALDD server endpoint can be via VAL server or via
EES, and discovery of the new SEALDD server can utilize procedure described in
clause 9.4. The ACT procedure in the VAL server is also executed according to
EDGEAPP ACR scenario but its detail is out of scope of SA6.
NOTE 2: The SEALDD context scope (e.g. service level and/or UE level) has the
same granularity with SEALDD transmission request information in clause
9.2.3.1.
NOTE 3: How context synchronization is performed between SEALDD server and VAL
server in context transfer is out of scope in this document.
### 9.6.2 Procedures
#### 9.6.2.1 SEALDD context transfer
Figure 9.6.2.1-1 describes SEALDD context transfer procedure in pull (step 1a
and 2a) or push (step 1b and 2b) operation.
Pre-conditions:
1\. For pull operation, the old SEALDD server endpoint is available in the new
SEALDD server
2\. For push operation, the new SEALDD server endpoint is available in the old
SEALDD server.
Figure 9.6.2.1-1: SEALDD context transfer
The transferred SEALDD context includes the service subscription information
created upon VAL server\'s interaction for requesting SEALDD transmission
service (e.g. step 1 and 2 in Figure 9.2.2.1-1), and also the SEALDD client
and SEALDD server communication tunnel management information (e.g. UE IP
address) which is created upon SEALDD client\'s interaction for requesting
data transmission (e.g. step 5 and 6 in Figure 9.2.2.1‑1). If new SEALDD
server supports transportation layer service continuity, additional transport
layer context (e.g. TCP/TLS/QUIC) is transferred from old SEALDD server to new
SEALDD server. If the new SEALDD Server is not provisioned with the VAL server
configured SEALDD policy, then it can pull from the Old SEALDD server via the
pull operation. The push operation does not support the transfer of the VAL
server configured SEALDD policy between Old and New SEALDD server.
The new SEALDD server, after receiving the SEALDD context from the old SEALDD
server, allocates IP address and port for SEALDD-Uu user plane communication.
The new SEALDD server also sends back to the old SEALDD server with the
allocated endpoint information If operation is push. Then the old SEALDD
server can request 5GC to perform IP replacement procedure, as defined in
clause 6.3.3 of 3GPP 23.548 [8]. The request includes the traffic descriptor
of old SEALDD server (i.e., SEALDD-UU address/port), the traffic descriptor of
new SEALDD server (i.e., SEALDD-UU address/port) and/or the target DNAI.
Optionally, after receiving the SEALDD context with the SEALDD-UU endpoint
from the old SEALDD server, the new SEALDD server can request 5GC to perform
IP replacement procedure.
NOTE: The TCP/TLS/QUIC context transfer is required to support the SEALDD
server relocation with IP replacement procedure, as described in clause
9.6.2.2.
#### 9.6.2.2 SEALDD relocation in EDN
Pre-conditions:
1\. VAL Server 1 and 2 are adapted to the EDGEAPP as EAS.
2\. VAL Server 1 and 2 register its associated SEALDD server in EES as
described in clause 9.4.3.2.
Figure 9.6.2.2-1: SEALDD support of UE\'s service continuity
1\. An application client on a UE, acting as a VAL client, establishes a
SEALDD flow over SEALDD-UU to send application data to VAL Server 1. SEALDD
client and SEALD server 1 maintain SEALDD flow information (e.g., SEALDD flow
ID, VAL IDs/addresses, VAL requirements).
2\. Application data is sent via the SEALDD flow between the VAL Client and
VAL Server 1.
3\. The UE moves and generates a mobility event in the 5GC.
4\. The UE\'s mobility event triggers the execution of an Application Context
Relocation (ACR) procedure as described in 3GPP TS 23.558 [10]; or VAL server
1 triggers ACR due to load re-balancing reason. Any of the ACR scenarios
detailed in 3GPP TS 23.558 [10] clauses 8.8.2.2-8.8.2.6 may occur. In this
step, the first three phases of the ACR procedure are performed, up to ACT. In
this step VAL Server 1 acts as EAS 1 and VAL Server 2 as EAS 2, therefore
participating in corresponding signaling. VAL server 2 has been selected as
SEALDD-enabled server meeting the ACR criteria to be the target EAS. The
associated SEALDD server 2 has also been selected and may support
transportation layer (e.g. UDP/TCP/QUIC) service continuity.
5a. Before triggering ACT, VAL Server 1 sends a SEALDD notification of ACR
event to SEALDD Server 1.
5b. Before triggering ACT, VAL Server 2 sends a SEALDD notification of ACR
event to SEALDD Server 2.
6a. SEALDD server 1 transfers the SEALDD context to the SEALDD server 2 which
serves VAL Server 2 as described in clause 9.6.2.1, with push operation. The
SEALDD server 1 can obtain the SEALDD server 2 endpoint for SEALDD-Uu user
plane to the SEALDD client, as specified in clause 9.6.2.1.
6b. SEALDD server 2 can obtain the SEALDD context from the SEALDD server 1 by
using the pull operation, as described in clause 9.6.2.1.
7\. SEALDD server 1 applies the functionality specified in 3GPP TS 23.502 [6]
clause 5.2.6.7 for AF traffic influence, providing the N6 routing information
for the SEALDD client and SEALDD server 2. The SEALDD server 1 may:
\- If the SEALDD server 2 supports transportation layer service continuity,
additionally includes SEALDD IP replacement information (i.e. SEALDD server 1
endpoint and SEALDD server 2 endpoint for SEALDD-Uu user plane) in the AF
traffic influence. Since the UE is not aware of SEALDD server change, the new
SEALDD traffic (due to new VAL traffic sent by VAL client) is sent by UPF
towards the new SEALDD server, this handling in UPF is agnostic to the SEALDD
server 2. Or,
\- send AF traffic influence with target DNAI of SEALDD server 2, and
simultaneous connectivity indicator, to request 5GC to maintain the
simultaneous connectivity over source PSA and target PSA with source SEALDD
server and target SEALDD server, as described in clause 6.3.4 of 3GPP TS
23.548 [8].
8\. If the SEALDD server 2 has no transportation layer service continuity
support, a SEALDD Connection info update notification is sent to SEALDD
client, e.g. to update the allocated IP address and port for SEALDD-Uu user
plane communication. Then the SEALDD client acknowledges the received SEALDD
Connection info update notification. After SEALDD client is aware of the new
SEALDD-Uu IP address and port, it starts to send new SEALDD traffic (received
from the VAL client) over the new connection. The new SEALDD server maps the
received SEALDD traffic to the application traffic according to the SEALDD
traffic descriptor and VAL service ID. The new SEALDD server sends the
recovered application traffic to new VAL server. The downlink application
traffic sent from the new VAL server to VAL client is processed similarly.
9\. SEALDD Server 1 notifies VAL Server 1 of the completion of the SEALDD flow
transfer.
10\. VAL Server 1 (acting as EAS1) and VAL Server 2 (acting as EAS 2) execute
the Application Context Transfer (ACT) procedure step corresponding to the
pending ACR scenario (3GPP TS 23.558 [10] clauses 8.8.2.2‑8.8.2.6), which is
out the 3GPP scope.
11\. The post-ACR clean-up phase is executed, as described in the
corresponding ACR scenario (3GPP TS 23.558 [10] clauses 8.8.2.2-8.8.2.6).
12\. The application data from the VAL Client is sent via the SEALDD flow
(with SEALDD server 2) to VAL Server 2.
NOTE: The SEALDD-UU client endpoint of the SEALDD flow in this step is
maintained the same as in step 1
### 9.6.3 Information flows
#### 9.6.3.1 SEALDD context push request
Table 9.6.3.1-1 describes the information flow from the old SEALDD server to
the new SEALDD server to push the SEALDD context.
Table 9.6.3.1-1: SEALDD context push request
Information element Status Description
* * *
Requestor ID M Identifies the requestor (i.e. old SEALDD server). SEALDD-Uu
Context M Identifies the context related to SEALDD-Uu connection, which is
created upon SEALDD connection establishment. SEALDD-S Context M Identifies
the context related to SEALDD-S subscription. Transport layer context O
Identifies the context related to Transport layer (e.g. TCP/TLS/QUIC) for
SEALDD-Uu user plane communication.
#### 9.6.3.2 SEALDD context push response
Table 9.6.3.2-1 describes the information flow from the new SEALDD server to
the old SEALDD server for responding to the SEALDD context push request.
Table 9.6.3.2-1: SEALDD context push response
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +=============================+========+=============================+ | Result | M | Success or failure. | | | | | | | (NOTE) | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | New SEALDD server endpoint | O | The endpoint (IP address | | | | and port) on the new SEALDD | | | | for SEALDD-Uu user plane | | | | communication. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | NOTE: The result is failed | | | | if the new SEALDD server | | | | rejects the relocation for | | | | SEALDD client. | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
#### 9.6.3.3 SEALDD context pull request
Table 9.6.3.3-1 describes the information flow from the new SEALDD server to
the old SEALDD server to pull the SEALDD context.
Table 9.6.3.3-1: SEALDD context pull request
Information element Status Description
* * *
Requestor ID M Identifies the requestor (i.e. new SEALDD server). SEALDD
policy indication O Indicates the need to transfer the VAL server configured
SEALDD policy.
#### 9.6.3.4 SEALDD context pull response
Table 9.6.3.4-1 describes the information flow from the new SEALDD server to
the old SEALDD server for responding to the SEALDD context pull request.
Table 9.6.3.4-1: SEALDD context pull response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Result M Success or failure. SEALDD-Uu Context M Identifies the context
related to SEALDD-Uu connection, which is created upon SEALDD connection
establishment. SEALDD-S Context M Identifies the context related to SEALDD-S
subscription. Transport layer context O Identifies the context related to
Transport layer (e.g. TCP/TLS/QUIC) for SEALDD-Uu user plane communication.
SEALDD policy O Indicates the VAL server configured SEALDD policy.
### 9.6.4 APIs
#### 9.6.4.1 General
Table 9.6.4.1-1 illustrates the APIs exposed by SEALDD server for UE's service
continuity.
Table 9.6.4.1-1: List of SEALDD server APIs for UE's service continuity
API Name API Operations Operation Semantics Consumer(s)
* * *
Sdd_DDContext Push Request Request/Response SEALDD server Pull Request
Request/Response SEALDD server
#### 9.6.4.2 Sdd_DDContext_Push Request operation
**API operation name:** Sdd_DDContext_Push Request
**Description:** The consumer requests to push SEALDD context.
**Inputs:** See clause 9.6.3.1.
**Outputs:** See clause 9.6.3.2
See clause 9.6.2.1 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.6.4.3 Sdd_DDContext_Pull Request operation
**API operation name:** Sdd_DDContext_Pull Request
**Description:** The consumer requests to pull SEALDD context.
**Inputs:** See clause 9.6.3.3.
**Outputs:** See clause 9.6.3.4
See clause 9.6.2.1 for details of usage of this operation.
## **9.7 SEALDD enabled data transmission quality measurement**
### 9.7.1 General
The following clauses specify procedures, information flows and APIs for
SEALDD enabled data transmission quality measurement.
### 9.7.2 Procedures
#### 9.7.2.1 Data transmission quality measurement
Figure 9.7.2-1 illustrate the procedure for SEALDD enabled data transmission
quality measurement. The SEALDD client and SEALDD server is enhanced to carry
out the data transmission quality measurement.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The SEALDD server and SEALDD client are synchronized to the time source
provided by 5GS as specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [5].
2\. The VAL server discovers and selects the SEALDD server by CAPIF functions.
Figure 9.7.2.1-1: SEALDD enabled data transmission quality measurement
procedure
1\. An on-going regular data transmission connection is established according
to clause 9.2.2.2.
2\. The VAL server sends a SEALDD transmission quality measurement
subscription request to the SEALDD server. The request includes the
identifiers of the application traffic (e.g. VAL service ID, VAL server ID),
requirement of transmission quality measurement (e.g. latency, jitter,
bitrate, packet loss rate) and measurement target UE (e.g. a single UE, a
group of UEs or all UEs), and may also include reporting criteria, reporting
frequency, spatial condition and temporal condition.
NOTE: The spatial and/or temporal condition can be used by SEALDD server to
apply when and where the measurement is performed. For instance, the
measurement is expected to be done for a group of VAL UEs with a scheduled
route (from city A to city B via highway A2 and A3), from 9:00 a.m. to 11:00
a.m. on Tuesday and from 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. on Thursday.
3\. Upon receiving the request, the SEALDD server performs an authorization
check. If authorization is successful, the SEALDD server sends a response to
the VAL server with the subscription ID, expiration time.
4\. If the transmission quality measurement requirement list provided by VAL
server in step 2, indicates that the latency is needed to be measured, the
SEALDD server initiates the DL packet delay measurement. The SEALDD server
encapsulates the DL monitoring packet (i.e. DL SEALDD packet with SEALDD DL
monitoring header and VAL traffic as payload, or dummy DL SEALDD packet
generated for data transmission quality monitoring) with local time T1 when
the SEALDD server sends out the DL monitoring packets. The SEALDD server
considers the spatial and/or temporal conditions when starting/resuming the
transmission quality measurement. If the conditions are not satisfied, the
SEALDD server stops/suspends the transmission quality measurement.
NOTE: For other metrics in transmission quality measurement requirement list
(e.g. bitrate), the transmission quality result can be obtained by performance
detection on the SEALDD server within a period of time.
5\. The SEALDD client receives the DL monitoring packet, and records the local
time T2.
6\. Similarly, the SEALDD client encapsulates the UL monitoring packet (i.e.
UL SEALDD packet with SEALDD UL monitoring header and VAL traffic as payload,
or dummy UL SEALDD packet generated for data transmission quality monitoring)
with local time T2 recorded in step 5 and local time T3 when the SEALDD client
sends out the UL monitoring packet.
7\. The SEALDD server records the local time T4 when the SEALDD server
receives the UL monitoring packet and calculates the latency with T1, T2, T3,
T4. The SEALDD server can also calculate the bitrate, jitter and packet loss
rate over a certain period over a specific SEALDD connection by recording the
status of the SEALDD packets carrying VAL traffic or dummy SEALDD packets
generated for transmission quality measurement reports. The SEAL DD server
also evaluates the reporting criteria if present in the SEALDD transmission
quality measurement subscription request in order to generate the transmission
quality measurement report.
8\. The SEALDD server reports the data transmission quality measurement
results (e.g. latency, jitter, bitrate, packet loss rate) to the VAL server
via the notification message.
When a VAL group ID or a list of VAL UE IDs or all VAL UEs indication is
received in step 2, step 4 to step 7 is repeated for VAL UEs in the group/list
or for all VAL UEs. The SEALDD server maps the VAL UE group ID to a list of
VAL UE IDs if a VAL group ID is received. The SEALDD server identifies SEALDD
connections corresponding to the desired VAL UE(s) to trigger measurement. And
depending on the reporting requirement for multiple UEs, the SEALDD server
calculates the needed report for the VAL server.
#### 9.7.2.2 Data transmission quality query
Figure 9.7.2.2-1 illustrate the procedure for SEALDD enabled data transmission
quality query. This procedure is used to obtain the historical transmission
quality result already measured as described in clause 9.7.2.1.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The SEALDD server performs the data transmission quality measurement
procedure, as described in clause 9.7.2.1.
Figure 9.7.2.2-1: SEALDD enabled data transmission quality query procedure
1\. The consumers (e.g. VAL server, SEALDD server, NSCE server) can send a
SEALDD transmission quality query request to the SEALDD server to obtain the
transmission quality measurement result. The request includes the identifiers
of the application traffic (e.g. VAL service ID, VAL server ID), VAL UE ID or
VAL UE group ID.
2\. The SEALDD server responds with the transmission quality measurement
result (e.g. packet delay, bitrate, packet loss rate).
#### 9.7.2.3 Data transmission quality measurement reported by SEALDD client
Figure 9.7.2.3-1 illustrate the procedure for SEALDD enabled data transmission
quality measurement for VAL traffic. The SEALDD client receives transmission
quality measurement requirement, decides to start VAL data transmission
monitoring and generates measurement reports.
Figure 9.7.2.3-1: VAL data transmission quality measurement reported by SEALDD
client
1\. An on-going regular data transmission connection is established according
to clause 9.2.2.2.
The transmission quality measurement can be triggered by VAL server or VAL
client, which is described in step 2 to step 5 and step 6, correspondingly.
2\. The VAL server sends a SEALDD transmission quality measurement
subscription request to the SEALDD server. The request includes the
identifiers of the application traffic (e.g. VAL service ID, VAL server ID),
requirement of transmission quality measurement (e.g. latency, jitter,
bitrate) and measurement target UE (e.g. a single UE, a group of UEs or all
UEs), and may also include reporting criteria, reporting frequency, spatial
condition and temporal condition.
NOTE 1: The spatial and/or temporal condition can be used by SEALDD client to
apply when and where the measurement is performed. For instance, the
measurement is expected to be done for a group of VAL UEs with a scheduled
route (from city A to city B via highway A2 and A3), from 9:00 a.m. to 11:00
a.m. on Tuesday and from 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. on Thursday.
3\. Upon receiving the request, the SEALDD server performs an authorization
check. If authorization is successful, the SEALDD server responds to the VAL
server.
4-5. The SEALDD server sends a SEALDD transmission quality measurement
subscription request to the SEALDD client and the SEALDD client responds to
the SEALDD server. The SEALDD client, based on the received service quality
guarantee policy including thresholds and action, can take corrective action
as described in clause 9.7.2.3.
6\. The VAL client triggers the SEALDD transmission quality measurement
procedure to the SEALDD client, in order to collect the measurement report
information.
7\. After SEALDD client determines to start measurement process, upon UL
packet arrival, the SEALDD client initiates the UL packet delay measurement.
The SEALDD client encapsulates the UL monitoring packet (i.e. UL SEALDD packet
with SEALDD UL monitoring header and VAL traffic as payload for VAL data
transmission quality monitoring) with local time T1 when the SEALDD client
sends out the UL monitoring packet. The SEALDD client considers the spatial
and/or temporal conditions when starting/resuming the transmission quality
measurement. If the conditions are not satisfied, the SEALDD client
stops/suspends the transmission quality measurement.
8\. The SEALDD server receives the UL monitoring packet, and records the local
time T2.
9\. Similarly, the SEALDD server encapsulates the DL monitoring packet (i.e.
DL SEALDD packet with SEALDD DL monitoring header and VAL traffic as payload,
or dummy UL SEALDD packet generated for data transmission quality monitoring
in case there is no DL VAL traffic for DL packet delay monitoring) with local
time T2 recorded in step 8 and local time T3 when the SEALDD server sends out
the DL monitoring packet.
NOTE 2: When the SEALDD server sends the dummy UL packet as monitoring
response to the SEALDD client depends on SEALDD server implementation.
10\. The SEALDD client records the local time T4 when the SEALDD client
receives the DL monitoring packet and calculates the latency with T1, T2, T3,
T4. The SEALDD client can also calculate the bitrate and jitter over a certain
period over a specific SEALDD connection by recording the status of the SEALDD
monitoring packets. The SEALDD client also evaluates the reporting criteria if
present in the SEALDD transmission quality measurement subscription request in
order to generate the transmission quality measurement report.
Depending on which entity triggers the data transmission quality measurement,
step 11 and step 12 corresponds to step 2 to step 5, step 13 corresponds to
step 6.
11-12. The SEALDD client reports the data transmission quality measurement
results (e.g. latency, jitter, bitrate) to the VAL server via the SEALDD
server.
13\. The SEALDD client reports the data transmission quality measurement
results to the VAL client.
When a VAL group ID or a list of VAL UE IDs or all VAL UEs indication is
received in step 2, step 4 to step 11 is repeated for VAL UEs in the
group/list or for all VAL UEs. The SEALDD server maps the VAL UE group ID to a
list of VAL UE IDs if a VAL group ID is received. The SEALDD server identifies
SEALDD connections corresponding to the desired VAL UE(s) to trigger
measurement. And depending on the reporting requirement for multiple UEs, the
SEALDD server collects and aggregates the needed report for the VAL server.
### **9.7.3 Information flows**
#### 9.7.3.1 SEALDD enabled data transmission quality measurement subscription
request
Table 9.7.3.1-1 describes the information flow from the VAL server to the
SEALDD server for subscribing to the data transmission measurement service.
Table 9.7.3.1-1: SEALDD transmission quality measurement subscription request
+---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +===========================+============+===========================+ | Application traffic | M | Identify of the | | identifiers | | application traffic (e.g. | | | | VAL server ID, VAL | | | | service ID) | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | VAL UE identity | O | Identifier of the VAL UE | | | | for which measurements | | | (See NOTE) | need to be provided, e.g. | | | | UE ID, UE address | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | VAL UE group ID | O | Identifier of a specific | | | | VAL UE group, as defined | | | (See NOTE) | in clause 7.5 of 3GPP TS | | | | 23.434 [4]. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | VAL UE identity list | O | Identifies a list of VAL | | | | UEs. | | | (See NOTE) | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | All VAL UEs Indication | O | Indicates all VAL UEs of | | | | the application | | | (See NOTE) | identified by application | | | | traffic identifiers. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Measurement conditions | O | Indicates the temporal | | | | and/or spatial | | | | conditions. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Transmission quality | M | The measurement | | measurement requirements | | requirement information | | list | | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | > Measurement ID | M | Measurement identifiers, | | | | e.g. latency, bitrate, | | | | packet loss rate, jitter | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | > Reporting frequency | O | The reporting frequency | | | | of measurement results | | | | (e.g. periodic | | | | reporting). If not | | | | present, it implies | | | | periodic reporting. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | > Reporting periodicity | O | If the reporting | | | | frequency is periodic, | | | | the reporting periodicity | | | | shall be provided. For | | | | multiple UEs, it is | | | | recommended to give | | | | sufficient time to allow | | | | report aggregation. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | > Reporting granularity | O | The reporting granularity | | | | indicates whether the | | | | measurement report is for | | | | individual VAL UE or for | | | | VAL UE group or for all | | | | VAL UEs, if VAL UE group | | | | or all VAL UEs is the | | | | measurement target. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | > Measurement period | O | Indicates the measurement | | window | | period window for | | | | transmission quality | | | | measurements | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | > Measurement expiration | O | Indicates the measurement | | time | | expiration time | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | > Reporting criteria | O | Indicates the criteria | | | | for reporting measurement | | | | results, e.g. if the | | | | latency or bitrate | | | | reaches below or above a | | | | certain value. It also | | | | includes a unique | | | | identifier for each | | | | criteria of more than one | | | | criteria is specified. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | NOTE: One of them shall | | | | be present as the | | | | measurement target UE. | | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+
#### 9.7.3.2 SEALDD enabled data transmission quality measurement subscription
response
Table 9.7.3.2-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD server to the
VAL server for responding to the transmission quality measurement subscription
request.
Table 9.7.3.2-1: SEALDD transmission quality measurement subscription response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Result M Success or failure. Subscription ID O Subscription identifier
corresponding to the subscription. Expiration time O Indicates the expiration
time of the subscription. Applicable for successful result.
#### 9.7.3.3 SEALDD enabled data transmission quality measurement notification
Table 9.7.3.3-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD server to the
VAL server for notifying the transmission quality measurement reports.
Table 9.7.3.3-1: SEALDD transmission quality measurement notification
Information element Status Description
* * *
Subscription ID M Subscription identifier corresponding to the subscription.
Transmission quality measurement reports list M The generated transmission
quality results in SEALDD server, as specified in Table 9.7.3.3-2.
Table 9.7.3.3-2 describes the information elements for the transmission
quality measurement reports list, provided by the SEALDD server after
performing transmission quality measurement.
Table 9.7.3.3-2: SEALDD transmission quality measurement reports list
Information element Status Description
* * *
> Measurement ID M Measurement identifiers, e.g. latency, bitrate, packet loss
> rate, jitter > VAL UE ID(s) O It indicates the VAL UE(s) under SEALDD
> measurement. For a single VAL UE, it can be omitted and the associated
> measurement values are for the single VAL UE. For multiple VAL UEs with
> reporting granularity set to individual UE, the associated measurement
> values are for individual VAL UE as indicated in this IE. For multiple VAL
> UEs with reporting granularity set to VAL UE group/list or all VAL UEs, the
> associated measurement values are aggregation for all VAL UEs or the VAL UE
> group/list and this IE includes the measured VAL UEs. > Average measurement
> value O The average measurement value of measurement results > Minimum
> measurement value O The minimum measurement value of measurement results >
> maximum measurement value O The maximum measurement value of measurement
> results > Standard deviation measurement value O Standard deviation
> measurement value of measurement results > kPercentile measurement value O
> Indicates the kpercentile measurement value of measurement results >
> Measurement period O Indicates the measurement period > Timestamp O
> Indicates the timestamp of measurement results
#### 9.7.3.4 SEALDD enabled data transmission quality query request
Table 9.7.3.4-1 describes the information flow from the other consumers (e.g.
SEALDD server, NSCE server, etc) to the SEALDD server for querying the data
transmission quality measurement result.
Table 9.7.3.4-1: SEALDD transmission quality query request
Information element Status Description
* * *
Application traffic identifiers M Identify of the application traffic (e.g.
VAL server ID, VAL service ID) VAL UE ID(s) O Identifier of VAL UE(s) need to
be queried, e.g. single VAL UE, multiple VAL UEs, or VAL UE group
#### 9.7.3.5 SEALDD enabled data transmission quality query response
Table 9.7.3.5-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD server to the
other consumers (e.g. SEALDD server, NSCE server, etc) for returning the data
transmission quality reports.
Table 9.7.3.5-1: SEALDD transmission quality query response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Result M Success or failure. Transmission quality measurement reports list M
The generated transmission quality results in SEALDD server, as specified in
Table 9.7.3.3-2.
#### 9.7.3.6 Transmission quality measurement subscription request
Table 9.7.3.6-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD server to the
SEALDD client for data transmission measurement subscription.
Table 9.7.3.6-1: Transmission quality measurement subscription request
Information element Status Description
* * *
SEALDD flow ID M Identifier of the SEALDD flow. Measurement conditions O
Indicates the temporal and/or spatial conditions. Transmission quality
measurement requirements list M The measurement requirement information >
Measurement ID M Measurement identifiers, e.g. latency, bitrate, jitter >
Reporting frequency O The reporting frequency of measurement results (e.g.
periodic reporting). If not present, it implies periodic reporting. >
Reporting periodicity O If the reporting frequency is periodic, the reporting
periodicity shall be provided. > Measurement period window O Indicates the
measurement period window for transmission quality measurements > Measurement
expiration time O Indicates the measurement expiration time > Reporting
criteria O Indicates the criteria for reporting measurement results, e.g. if
the latency or bitrate reaches below or above a certain value. It also
includes a unique identifier for each criteria of more than one criteria is
specified. > Service policy O Specifies quality guarantee policies associated
with the SEALDD connection >> Quality guarantee event M Indicates the event
(e.g. measurement threshold) that triggers performing the quality guarantee
action. >> Quality guarantee action M Indicates the action to be performed
when the measurement event occurs, in order to meet the quality guarantee.
#### 9.7.3.7 Transmission quality measurement subscription response
Table 9.7.3.7-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD client to the
SEALDD server for responding to the transmission quality measurement
subscription request.
Table 9.7.3.7-1: Transmission quality measurement subscription response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Result M Success or failure. Expiration time O Indicates the expiration time
of the subscription. Applicable for successful result.
#### 9.7.3.8 Transmission quality measurement notification
Table 9.7.3.8-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD client to the
SEALDD server for notifying the transmission quality measurement reports.
Table 9.7.3.8-1: Transmission quality measurement notification
Information element Status Description
* * *
Transmission quality measurement reports list M The generated transmission
quality results in SEALDD server > Measurement ID M Measurement identifiers,
e.g. latency, bitrate, jitter > Average measurement value O The average
measurement value of measurement results > Minimum measurement value O The
minimum measurement value of measurement results > maximum measurement value O
The maximum measurement value of measurement results > Standard deviation
measurement value O Standard deviation measurement value of measurement
results > kPercentile measurement value O Indicates the kpercentile
measurement value of measurement results > Measurement period O Indicates the
measurement period > Timestamp O Indicates the timestamp of measurement
results
### 9.7.4 APIs
#### 9.7.4.1 General
Table 9.7.4.1-1 illustrates the APIs exposed by SEALDD server for data
transmission quality measurement.
Table 9.7.4.1-1: List of SEALDD server APIs for transmission quality
measurement
API Name API Operations Operation Semantics Consumer(s)
* * *
Sdd_TransmissionQualityMeasurement_subscription Request Request/Response VAL
server Sdd_TransmissionQualityMeasurement_notification Notify Subscribe/notify
VAL server Sdd_TransmissionQualityQuery Request Request/Response Other
consumers (e.g. SEALDD server, NSCE server, etc)
#### 9.7.4.2 Sdd_ TransmissionQualityMeasurement_subscription Request
operation
**API operation name:** Sdd_ TransmissionQualityMeasurement_subscription
Request
**Description:** The consumer requests for one time for subscribing
transmission quality measurement service.
**Inputs:** See clause 9.7.3.1.
**Outputs:** See clause 9.7.3.2
See clause 9.7.2.1 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.7.4.3 Sdd_ TransmissionQualityMeasurement_notification operation
**API operation name:** Sdd_ TransmissionQualityMeasurement_notification
**Description:** The consumer is notified with the transmission quality
measurement reports.
**Inputs:** See clause 9.7.3.3.
**Outputs:** None.
See clause 9.7.2.1 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.7.4.4 Sdd_TransmissionQualityQuery Request operation
**API operation name:** Sdd_TransmissionQualityQuery Request
**Description:** The consumer requests for one time for transmission quality
query.
**Inputs:** See clause 9.7.3.4.
**Outputs:** See clause 9.7.3.5.
See clause 9.7.2.2 for details of usage of this operation.
## **9.8 SEALDD enabled bandwidth control for different VAL users**
### 9.8.1 General
The following clauses specify procedures, information flows and APIs for
SEALDD enabled bandwidth control transmission.
NOTE: In clause 9.8, the terms bandwidth control and data transmission rate
control are interchangeable.
### 9.8.2 Procedures
The SEALDD layer can provide the differentiated data delivery service with
different bandwidth experience for VAL users, where the VAL server can provide
the bandwidth limit (i.e., minimum bandwidth requirement and maximum bandwidth
limit) for VAL users. Figure 9.8.2-1 illustrates the procedure for bandwidth
control for different VAL users.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The VAL server has discovered and selected the SEALDD server by CAPIF
functions as specified in clause 9.4.2.
2\. The SEALDD server has subscribed to 5GC for QoS monitoring of the specific
UE related to the VAL user, as defined in clause 5.2.6.9 in 3GPP TS 23.502
[6].
3\. The SEALDD policy (i.e, the bandwidth control policy) has been configured
in SEALDD server, as described in clause 9.10.
Figure 9.8.2-1: SEALDD enabled bandwidth control transmission procedure
1\. The VAL server sends a Sdd_regularTransmission request to the SEALDD
server. The request includes the identifiers of the application traffic (e.g.
VAL service ID, VAL server ID), the VAL server's total bandwidth limit and the
bandwidth limits (i.e. minimum bandwidth requirement and maximum bandwidth
limit) for VAL users.
2\. Upon receiving the request, the SEALDD server performs an authorization
check. If authorization is successful, the SEALDD server sends a response to
the VAL server.
3\. The VAL client sends a SEALDD service request to SEALDD client.
4\. The VAL/SEALDD client discover and select the proper SEALDD server for the
VAL application. After this step, the VAL server is discovered and selected
along with the associated SEALDD server, the SEALDD client can get the SEALDD
server\'s address.
5\. The SEALDD client sends Sdd_RegularTransmissionConnection_Establish
request to SEALDD server with the SEALDD client ID, the VAL user or UE
identity.
6\. The SEALDD server performs bandwidth limit check according to the VAL
user's bandwidth limit, the current SEALDD traffic delivery status, the VAL
server's total bandwidth limit and/or the related UE's current network status
(i.e. via QoS monitoring report from the 5GC). If the available bandwidth
(i.e. the remaining bandwidth that can be used for the VAL user without
exceeding the VAL server's total bandwidth limit) cannot meet the VAL user's
minimum bandwidth requirement, the SEALDD server will reject the SEALDD
client's connection establishment request.
7\. When the available bandwidth can meet the VAL user's requirement, the
SEALDD client can establish the SEALDD connection with the SEALDD server. The
SEALDD server can calculate the suggested traffic transmission bandwidth to
the SEALDD client according to the VAL user's bandwidth limit and the related
UE's current network status (i.e. via QoS monitoring report or ECN marking for
L4S report from the 5GC).
8\. If the bandwidth limit check is failed (i.e., the available bandwidth
cannot meet the VAL user's minimum bandwidth requirement) in step 6, the
SEALDD server can send Sdd_RegularTransmissionConnection_Establish response
with the failed result (i.e., reject the connection establishment) and the
pending timer to trigger the re-connection from SEALDD client. If the
bandwidth limit check is successful (i.e., the available bandwidth can meet
the VAL user's requirement) in step 6, the SEALDD server can send
Sdd_RegularTransmissionConnection_Establish response with the successful
result and/or the suggested traffic transmission bandwidth.
NOTE: The SEALDD server can re-allocate the available bandwidth resource to
different VAL users according to the configured bandwidth control policy, as
described in clause 9.10.
If the connection establishment is rejected, the SEALDD client can re-
establish SEALDD connection by performing steps 5-8, when the pending timer is
expired.
For the uplink application traffic, the SEALDD client can buffer or drop some
packets when the uplink traffic from VAL client exceeds the suggested traffic
transmission bandwidth. Similarly, for the downlink application traffic, the
SEALDD server can buffer or drop some packet when the downlink traffic from
VAL server exceeds the suggested traffic transmission bandwidth.
### **9.8.3 Information flows**
See clause 9.2.3 for the details of information flow.
### 9.8.4 APIs
See clause 9.2.4 for the details of API.
## **9.9 SEALDD enabled data transmission quality guarantee**
### 9.9.1 General
The following clauses specify procedures, information flows and APIs for
SEALDD enabled data transmission quality guarantee.
### 9.9.2 Procedures
#### 9.9.2.1 SEALDD enabled QoS guarantee by switching SEALDD server
Figure 9.9.2.1-1 illustrate the procedure for QoS guarantee based on
transmission quality report from SEALDD server and QoS monitoring from 5GS.
The procedure is applicable to the scenario where there is a single path
between UE and SEALDD server.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The VAL server discovers and selects the SEALDD server by CAPIF functions.
2\. The VAL server has requested the transmission quality measurement to the
SEALDD server by invoking the Sdd_TransmissionQualityMeasurement_subscription
API in clause 9.7.4.2.
3\. A SEALDD service policy (i.e., the necessary SEALDD layer actions for
meeting the service policy requirements) has been configured in SEALDD server
and shared with the SEALDD client.
Figure 9.9.2.1-1: SEALDD enabled transmission quality guarantee procedure by
switching SEALDD server
1\. The VAL server sends a Sdd_RegularTransmission request to the SEALDD
server, as specified in clause 9.2.2.2. The request includes the identifiers
of the application traffic (e.g. VAL service ID, VAL server ID), and
optionally, the QoS information for the application traffic, e.g. QoS
requirements.
2\. Upon receiving the request, the SEALDD server performs an authorization
check. If authorization is successful, the SEALDD server sends a response to
the VAL server. The QoS information may be allocated by SEALDD server
according to VAL service ID for different service type of application traffic
if the QoS information is not provided by VAL server.
3\. The regular data transmission connection is established according to
clause 9.2.2.2.
4\. The S-SEALDD server (i.e., SEALDD server#1) can generate the transmission
quality measurement report according to the SEALDD enabled transmission
quality measurement procedure in clause 9.7.2.1, and detect whether the
current transmission quality can satisfy the QoS requirements of VAL
application.
5\. The S-SEALDD server subscribes to 5GC for QoS monitoring of the specific
UE related to the VAL user, as defined in clause 5.2.6.9 in 3GPP TS 23.502 6].
If the S-SEALDD server diagnoses that QoS deterioration is caused by N6/SEALDD
overload (i.e., based on QoS monitoring between UE and UPF, and the E2E
transmission quality measurement). The S-SEALDD server can determine to
trigger the data transmission quality guarantee procedure (i.e., switching the
connected SEALDD server according to SEALDD service policy) based on the QoS
monitoring and QoS measurement.
NOTE 1: The QoS monitoring subscription request may be triggered after step 4
when the current transmission quality cannot satisfy the QoS requirements of
VAL application.
NOTE 2: This procedure cannot solve the QoS deterioration issue caused by NG-
RAN (e.g. RAN congestion).
6\. The S-SEALDD server performs target SEALDD server discovery procedure by
using EEL, as specified in clause 9.4.
7\. The S-SEALDD server can select the T-SEALDD server (i.e., SEALDD server
#2) based on N6 traffic and/or SEALDD server load from performance of the
available target SEALDD servers in step 6.
8\. The SEALDD relocation procedure is performed for the switched SEALDD
servers and the switched VAL servers, as specified in clause 9.6.2.2.
After the SEALDD relocation procedure, the SEALDD client can connect to the
selected T-SEALDD server to obtain the transmission quality guarantee service.
#### 9.9.2.2 SEALDD enabled data transmission quality guarantee with redundant
transport
Figure 9.9.2.2-1 illustrates the procedure of using redundant transmission as
the action to meet connection reliability requirements specified by a SEALDD
service policy.
Pre-conditions:
1\. A SEALDD service policy, which includes data transmission quality
guarantees, is available to SEALDD server. The policy can be used to configure
measurements and determine the necessary SEALDD layer actions for meeting the
service policy requirements.
2\. The SEALDD Client is authorized to request redundant transport services on
behalf of the VAL client.
Figure 9.9.2.2-1: SEALDD data transmission quality guarantee with redundant
transmission
1\. A VAL client and server establish a SEALDD connection to transport the
application data. As part of the connection establishment, the SEALDD service
policy in precondition 1 is shared so that it is available to both the SEALDD
client and the SEALDD Server. The SEALDD Server may use the data transmission
quality requirements of this policy in conjunction with other local policies
pre-provisioned at the SEALDD server. The SEALDD server determines whether to
start data transmission quality measurement by itself or by the SEALDD client.
As a result, SEALDD measurements (e.g. packet loss rate, latency) are
configured either at the SEALDD client as described in clause 9.7.2.3 or at
the SEALDD server as described in clause 9.7.2.1 and started accordingly. Then
either the SEALDD client or server receives measurement reports.
2\. Based on measurement reports and the SEALDD service policy, depending on
the which entity started the measurement, either the SEALDD client or server
determines to perform an action so that the data transmission quality
requirements of the policy are met.
3\. Specifically, if the measurement was started by the SEALDD client, the
SEALDD client triggers the establishment of redundant transmission services.
If the measurement was started by the SEALDD server, the SEALDD server
triggers the establishment of redundant transmission services by sending a
Transmission quality guarantee request to the SEALDD client requesting to
establish redundant transmission path.
NOTE: The request can be sent to SEALDD client via Application Triggering
(specified in clause 4.13.2 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [6]) with payload indicating a
trigger of a redundant connection setup for SEALDD packet transmission.
4\. The SEALDD client uses steps 6 to 9 of the procedure in clause 9.3.2.1 to
request the use of redundant transmission service from the SEALDD server. As
part of this step, the UE may end the initial PDU session and establish
redundant PDU sessions.
5\. The SEALDD client updates the SEALDD connection with the redundant
transmission information, i.e., the UE addresses and ports for the redundant
PDU sessions, the SEALDD flow identifier, and the application traffic
descriptors. The SEALDD client or server also configures the parameters for
enabling any necessary SEALDD measurements for the new SEALDD flow.
6\. The SEALDD server may subscribe to receive notifications from the 5G
network for user plane measurements (e.g., the network latency requirements
specified in 3GPP TS 28.541 [12]), network analytics (as specified in 3GPP TS
28.104 [11], etc.).
7\. The SEALDD client and server handle data duplication and elimination of
application traffic on the redundant SEALDD flows and the necessary
measurements are collected by the SEALDD client or server.
When the SEALDD measurement results indicating that the SEALDD data
transmission has good performance according to policy guarantee threshold, if
the measurement was started by the SEALDD client, the SEALDD client may
release one transmission path and return back to single SEALDD connection
mode, otherwise the SEALDD server may send a request to the SEALDD client
requesting to use single transmission, then the SEALDD client releases one
transmission path and returns to single SEALDD connection mode.
### **9.9.3 Information flows**
#### 9.9.3.1 Transmission quality guarantee request
Table 9.9.3.1-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD server to the
SEALDD client for requesting data transmission quality guarantee.
Table 9.9.3.1-1: Transmission quality guarantee request
Information element Status Description
* * *
SEALDD flow ID M Identifier of the SEALDD flow. Transmission quality guarantee
action M Indicates the data transmission quality guarantee action (e.g.
redundant transmission path, re-establish transmission path, switch to backup
transmission path) that triggering by event (e.g. measurement threshold).
NOTE: The triggering event (e.g. measurement threshold) is changeable with the
transmission quality guarantee event.
Editor\'s Note: The Transmission quality guarantee action is to be changed to
the quality guarantee policy in Table 9.7.3.6. The SEALDD policy configuration
request in table 9.10.3.1-1 is to be aligned by adding the Transmission
quality guarantee policy in this table.
#### 9.9.3.2 Transmission quality guarantee response
Table 9.9.3.2-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD client to the
SEALDD server for responding to the transmission quality guarantee request.
Table 9.9.3.2-1: Transmission quality guarantee response
Information element Status Description
* * *
Result M Success or failure.
### 9.9.4 APIs
#### 9.9.4.1 General
Table 9.9.4.1-1 illustrates the APIs exposed by SEALDD client for data
transmission quality guarantee.
Table 9.9.4.1-1: API list for transmission quality guarantee
API Name API Operations Operation Semantics Consumer(s)
* * *
Sdd_TransmissionQualityGuarantee Request Request/Response SEALDD server
#### 9.9.4.2 Sdd_ TransmissionQualityGuarantee Request operation
**API operation name:** Sdd_ TransmissionQualityGuarantee Request
**Description:** The consumer requests for one time for transmission quality
guarantee.
**Inputs:** See clause 9.9.3.1.
**Outputs:** See clause 9.9.3.2
See clause 9.9.2.2 for details of usage of this operation.
## **9.10 SEALDD policy configuration**
### 9.10.1 General
The following clauses specify procedures, information flow for SEALDD policy
configuration. In clause 9.10, the VAL server is a specific server for
configurating SEALDD policy, and is different from the VAL server used for VAL
application processing in other clauses.
### 9.10.2 Procedures
#### 9.10.2.1 SEALDD policy configuration
Figure 9.10.2.1-1 illustrates the procedure for SEALDD policy configuration
from the VAL server used for SEALDD policy configuration to the SEALDD server.
Figure 9.10.2.1-1: SEALDD policy configuration
1\. The VAL server sends the SEALDD policy configuration request to the SEALDD
server. The request includes the identifiers of the application traffic (e.g.
VAL service ID, VAL server ID), VAL UE identify, and the SEALDD policy.
2\. The SEALDD server performs authorization check to verify whether the VAL
server can be accepted/authorized to configure the SEALDD policy.
3\. Upon successful authorization, the SEALDD server stores the SEALDD policy
for later use (e.g. for bandwidth control, transmission quality guarantee) and
replies to the VAL server with the SEALDD policy configuration response.
#### 9.10.2.2 SEALDD policy configuration update
Figure 9.10.2.2-1 illustrates the procedure for SEALDD policy configuration
update from the VAL server used for SEALDD policy configuration to the SEALDD
server.
Figure 9.10.2.2-1: SEALDD policy configuration update
1\. The VAL server used for SEALDD policy configuration determines that the
existing SEALDD policy needs to be updated, the VAL server sends the SEALDD
policy configuration update request to the SEALDD server.
2\. The SEALDD server performs authorization check to verify whether the VAL
server can be accepted/authorized to update the SEALDD policy configuration.
3\. Upon successful authorization, the SEALDD server updates the SEALDD policy
configuration and replies to the VAL server with the SEALDD policy
configuration update response.
#### 9.10.2.3 SEALDD policy configuration delete
Figure 9.10.2.3-1 illustrates the procedure for SEALDD policy configuration
delete from the VAL server used for SEALDD policy configuration to the SEALDD
server.
Figure 9.10.2.3-1: SEALDD policy configuration delete
1\. The VAL server used for SEALDD policy configuration determines that the
existing SEALDD policy needs to be deleted, the VAL server sends the SEALDD
policy configuration delete request to the SEALDD server.
2\. The SEALDD server performs authorization check to verify whether the VAL
server can be accepted/authorized to delete the SEALDD policy configuration.
3\. Upon successful authorization, the SEALDD server deletes the SEALDD policy
configuration and replies to the VAL server with the SEALDD policy
configuration update response.
### 9.10.3 Information flows
#### 9.10.3.1 SEALDD policy configuration request
Table 9.10.3.1-1 describes the information flow from the VAL server to the
SEALDD server for requesting the SEALDD policy configuration.
Table 9.10.3.1-1: SEALDD policy configuration request
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +==========================+==============+==========================+ | Application traffic | M | Identify of the | | identifiers | | application traffic | | | | (e.g. VAL server ID, VAL | | | | service ID) | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | VAL UE identity | O | Identifier of the VAL UE | | | | for which SEALDD policy | | | | applies | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | SEALDD policy | M | The SEALDD policy | | | | associated with | | | | application traffic | | | | identifiers, VAL UE | | | | identify | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | > Quality guarantee | O | Indicates the action to | | policy | | be performed when the | | | (See NOTE 1) | measurement event (e.g. | | | | measurement threshold) | | | | occurs, in order to meet | | | | the quality guarantee. | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | > Bandwidth control | O | The bandwidth control | | policy | | policy from VAL server, | | | (See NOTE 2) | e.g. re-allocating the | | | | bandwidth limit between | | | | different VAL users, | | | | including UL/DL | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | NOTE 1: This IE is used | | | | for the SEALDD enabled | | | | transmission quality | | | | guarantee, as specified | | | | in clause 9.9. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: This IE is used | | | | for the SEALDD enabled | | | | bandwidth control, as | | | | specified in clause 9.8. | | | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
#### 9.10.3.2 SEALDD policy configuration response
Table 9.10.3.2-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD server to the
VAL server for responding to the SEALDD policy configuration.
Table 9.10.3.2-1: SEALDD policy configuration response
+---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | **Information element** | **Status** | **Description** | +===========================+============+===========================+ | Result | M | Success or failure. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | > Configuration ID | O | Identifier of the SEALDD | | | | policy configuration. | | | (See NOTE) | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | > Expiration time | O | Indicates the expiration | | | | time of the configured | | | (See NOTE) | SEALDD policy | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | NOTE: These IEs are used | | | | for the successful case | | | | for SEALDD policy | | | | configuration request. | | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+
#### 9.10.3.3 SEALDD policy configuration update request
Table 9.10.3.3-1 describes the information flow from the VAL server to the
SEALDD server for requesting the SEALDD policy configuration update.
Table 9.10.3.3-1: SEALDD policy configuration update request
Information element Status Description
* * *
Configuration ID M Identifier of the SEALDD policy configuration. Updated
SEALDD policy O The updated SEALDD policy as described in Table 9.10.3.1-1.
#### 9.10.3.4 SEALDD policy configuration update response
Table 9.10.3.4-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD server to the
VAL server for responding to the SEALDD policy configuration update.
Table 9.10.3.4-1: SEALDD policy configuration update response
+---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | **Information element** | **Status** | **Description** | +===========================+============+===========================+ | Result | M | Success or failure. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | > Expiration time | O | Indicates the expiration | | | | time of the configured | | | (See NOTE) | SEALDD policy | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | NOTE: This IEs is used | | | | for the successful case | | | | for SEALDD policy | | | | configuration update | | | | request. | | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+
#### 9.10.3.5 SEALDD policy configuration delete request
Table 9.10.3.5-1 describes the information flow from the VAL server to the
SEALDD server for requesting the SEALDD policy configuration delete.
Table 9.10.3.5-1: SEALDD policy configuration delete request
Information element Status Description
* * *
Configuration ID M Identifier of the SEALDD policy configuration.
#### 9.10.3.6 SEALDD policy configuration delete response
Table 9.10.3.6-1 describes the information flow from the SEALDD server to the
VAL server for responding to the SEALDD policy configuration delete.
Table 9.10.3.6-1: SEALDD policy configuration delete response
**Information element** **Status** **Description**
* * *
Result M Success or failure.
### 9.10.4 APIs
#### 9.10.4.1 General
Table 9.10.4.1-1 illustrates the APIs exposed by SEALDD server for SEALDD
policy configuration.
Table 9.10.4.1-1: List of SEALDD server APIs for policy configuration
**API Name** **API Operations** **Operation Semantics** **Consumer(s)**
* * *
Sdd_PolicyConfiguration Request Request/Response VAL server Update  
Delete
#### 9.10.4.2 Sdd_PolicyConfiguration operation
**API operation name:** Sdd_PolicyConfiguration_Request
**Description:** The consumer requests for one time for SEALDD policy
configuration.
**Inputs:** See clause 9.10.3.1.
**Outputs:** See clause 9.10.3.2.
See clause 9.10.2.1 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.10.4.3 Sdd_PolicyConfiguration update operation
**API operation name:** Sdd_PolicyConfiguration_Update
**Description:** The consumer requests for one time for SEALDD policy
configuration update.
**Inputs:** See clause 9.10.3.3.
**Outputs:** See clause 9.10.3.4.
See clause 9.10.2.2 for details of usage of this operation.
#### 9.10.4.4 Sdd_PolicyConfiguration delete operation
**API operation name:** Sdd_PolicyConfiguration_Delete
**Description:** The consumer requests for one time for SEALDD policy
configuration deletion.
**Inputs:** See clause 9.10.3.5.
**Outputs:** See clause 9.10.3.6.
See clause 9.10.2.3 for details of the usage of this operation.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Deployment models
The SEALDD service can be deployed as a generic SEAL service and hence the
deployment models for SEALDD service utilizes the deployment models specified
in clause 8 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [4]. In the context of SEALDD service the
following rules apply:
\- The SEAL server is the SEALDD server;
\- The SEAL-S reference point is the SEALDD-S reference point; and
\- The SEAL-E reference point is the SEALDD-E reference point.
###### ## Annex B (Informative): Message delivery option: Utilizing MSGin5G
# B.1 General
MSGin5G provides a data delivery messaging service in 5GS especially for
enabling IoT device communications. It has been specified starting with Rel-17
in 3GPP TS 23.554 [9]. SEALDD is proposed as a generic data delivery enabler
layer for all the verticals utilizing SEAL. It is beneficial to deploy one
unified data delivery system suitable for all kinds of terminals to reduce the
complexity of vertical applications.
# B.2 SEALDD utilizing MSGin5G
MSGin5G functionalities described in 3GPP TS 23.554 [9] are integrated in
SEALDD enabler layer. As shown in Figure B.2-1, MSGin5G client functionality
is integrated in SEALDD client, and MSGin5G server functionality is integrated
in SEALDD server. SEALDD server and SEALDD client can use MSGin5G
functionalities to send SEALDD traffic in MSGin5G message format.
Figure B.2-1 SEALDD utilizing MSGin5G
###### ## Annex C (Informative): Overall lifecycle of SEALDD service
Figure C-1: Overall lifecycle of SEALDD
As shown in Figure C-1, the whole lifecycle of SEALDD to establish the SEALDD
connection for the VAL client and VAL server includes two phases:
1\. SEALDD server Service Preparation Phase (This Phase is used by the VAL
server to get SEALDD server prepared for SEALDD client access):
(1) When the VAL server decides to use the SEALDD service for data
transmission enhancement, it discovers the SEALDD server (e.g. by CAPIF).
(2) Then the VAL server triggers SEALDD service subscription procedure to the
discovered SEALDD server, in that procedure, SEALDD server is associated with
the VAL server, and specific SEALDD server resource (e.g. address/port of the
SEALDD server for redundant transmission) is allocated for the VAL server\'s
service to transfer SEALDD traffic.
(3) For EDN scenario, the SEALDD server or VAL server will register the
association information to the EES.
2\. SEALDD client Service Consuming Phase (When SEALDD server is prepared in
SEALDD server Service Preparation Phase, the VAL client(s) can trigger SEALDD
client to connect to specific prepared SEALDD server for SEALDD service):
(1) When VAL client request to use SEALDD service to transmit the VAL traffic
to VAL server, the VAL client or SEALDD client can discover the proper SEALDD
server associated with the VAL server (e.g. via EAS discovery, DNS query, pre-
configuration or Application layer signalling).
(2) Then SEALDD client can interact with SEALDD server to negotiate for SEALDD
data transfer. If Address/Port is allocated in SEALDD service subscription
phase, it will be notified to SEALDD client in this step.
(3) Data transmission connection is established between the SEALDD client and
SEALDD server for SEALDD traffic transfer.
(5) The whole configuration is accomplished and the VAL traffic is transferred
via the SEALDD connection.
#