# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
An MC gateway UE has the functionality of providing service access with the MC
service system for multiple MC service clients. The MC gateway UE enables MC
service access for those MC service clients operating on devices that have no
MC service capabilities (incl. 3GPP transport). This technical report
identifies the key issues and corresponding solutions with recommendations for
the normative work.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies solutions to satisfy the requirements for a
Gateway UE function. It identifies enhancements to be included in the
technical specifications for MCPTT, MCVideo, MCData and in the common
functional architecture to support mission critical communications.
Requirements for this study are taken from stage 1 requirements, including
3GPP TS 22.179 [2] and 3GPP TS 22.280 [3].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.179: \"Mission Critical Push to Talk (MCPTT); Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.280: \"Mission Critical Services Common Requirements
(MCCoRe)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.280: \"Common functional architecture to support mission
critical services; Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.379: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT); Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.281: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
Mission Critical Video (MCVideo); Stage 2\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.282: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
Mission Critical Data (MCData); Stage 2\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers for LTE (GCSE_LTE);
Stage 2\".
> [10] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS)\".
>
> [11] 3GPP TS 29.244: \"Interface between the Control Plane and the User
> Plane Nodes\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**MC gateway UE:** A UE that can be simultaneously shared between multiple MC
service clients using the same or different MC services.
**MC client:** A client that represents a set of clients (i.e. Group
management client, Configuration management client, Identity management
client, Key management client, Location management client and MC service
client).
**MC server:** A server that represents a set of servers (i.e. MC service
server and servers of the Common services core).
**Non-3GPP device:** A device that enables local connectivity towards an MC
gateway UE using an access method not specified by 3GPP. A subset of these
devices can host an MC client specified by 3GPP.
**CSC client:** A client that represents a set of clients for group
management, configuration management, identity management, key management, and
location management.
**CSC server:** A server that represents a set of servers for group
management, configuration management, identity management, key management, and
location management.
**MC gateway client:** A client on a non-3GPP device that requests connection
authorisation with an MC gateway UE server.
**MC gateway UE server:** A server on an MC gateway UE that controls
connection authorisation received from an MC gateway client.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Scenarios
## 4.1 MC gateway UE services and the relationship to MC service users/clients
### 4.1.1 General
The MC gateway UE service may provide the following necessary functions:
\- Allowing an MC service client to connect to a MC gateway UE.
> \- Allowing an MC service client to choose between multiple Mc GW UEs for
> the required MC service capability.
>
> \- Support of MC service continuation while the MC service client changes
> the MC gateway UE association.
\- Ensure that the content of communications between the MC system and MC
service client connected to an MC gateway UE is unaltered.
\- Ensure that the communication traffic attributes, e.g. priority and QoS, of
an MC service client connected to an MC gateway UE remains independent from
other MC service clients concurrently connected to the same MC gateway UE.
\- Independent MC service client identification, authorisation and service
profile association using the gateway MC UE functionality.
\- Sharing of an MC gateway UE transport resources with multiple connected MC
service clients.
\- Indication of potential MC gateway UE anomalies sent towards the connected
MC service clients.
\- MC service client is serving an MC service user on a device which is
connected to the MC gateway UE via non-3GPP transport.
# 5 Key issues
## 5.1 Key issue 1 -- Functional Architecture for an MC gateway UE
The MC gateway UE may provide several sub-functions like an MC gateway UE user
device connecting function, an MC gateway UE network function, an MC gateway
UE user QoS handling function, an MC gateway UE exposure function, an MC
gateway UE MBMS support function and other functions.
A functional architecture for the MC gateway UE may help to develop proper
mechanisms and procedures.
List of key issues:
\- Clarify the need to define a functional architecture for the MC gateway UE.
\- Describe the overall functional architecture and the details of the single
elements from that architecture.
## 5.2 Key issue 2 -- Authorisation for connection of non-3GPP devices with an
MC gateway UE
A control mechanism for connecting non-3GPP devices with an MC gateway UE is
needed as not all devices should be connected with all MC gateway UEs. An
authorized usage of an MC gateway UE by clients and users is needed as well as
a control mechanism on how many MC gateway UEs can be used by the same MC
service user/client. If a connection related temporary identifier and an
explicit login procedure is required (e.g. for traffic routing) needs to be
clarified.
List of key issues:
\- Clarify how to authorize the use of non-3GPP devices by the MC gateway UE.
\- Clarify how to control MC service user/client use of multiple MC gateway
UEs and to control the related traffic aggregation.
\- Clarify whether there is a need for an explicit login procedure and
assignment of a connection related temporary non-3GPP device ID.
## 5.3 Key issue 3 -- Identification of MC service users behind an MC gateway
UE residing on non-3GPP devices
The mission critical user identity (or MC ID) is the identity that an MC
service user presents to the identity management server during a user
authentication transaction (not necessarily tied to a single mission critical
service).
The MC service user identity (or MC service ID) is used as a globally unique
identifier within the MC service that identifies an MC service user.
The MC ID and the MC service ID may be the same.
The SIP signalling control plane uses a private user identity to authenticate
the signalling user agent and one or more public user identities for routing
of signalling messages in the SIP core.
There are several relationships between the MC service ID(s) and the public
user identity(ies).
List of key issues:
\- Clarify whether the MC ID can be used on non-3GPP devices connected to the
MC system via an MC gateway UE. Identify impacts to existing authentication
procedures.
\- Clarify whether the MC service ID can be used on non-3GPP devices connected
to the MC system via an MC gateway UE. Identify impacts or limitations on
existing procedures in the application plane.
\- Elaborate how and if SIP signalling plane identities can be used by
non-3GPP devices connected to the MC system via an MC gateway UE.
\- Elaborate the impacts regarding the current relationships between SIP
signalling plane identities and application plane identities.
\- Investigate whether there is a need for additional application plane
identities to support non-3GPP devices connected to network via an MC gateway
UE.
## 5.4 Key issue 4 -- MBMS support
If non-3GPP devices are connected to the MC system via an MC gateway UE, then
MBMS support should be supported. MBMS support is required for both, MC
service clients residing on a UE acting as MC gateway UE and for MC service
clients residing on a non-3GPP device.
List of key issues:
\- Clarify how MBMS transmissions can be supported for MC service clients
operating on non-3GPP devices via an MC gateway UE.
\- Clarify whether there any implications on switching between unicast and
multicast.
\- Clarify how the MC gateway UE forwards the MBMS downlink traffic to the
corresponding MC service clients behind the MC gateway UE.
\- Clarify whether the MBMS support for MC service client residing on a
non-3GPP devices should be transparent for network, i.e. the network need not
consider whether the MC service client residing on a non- 3GPP device is
connected via an MC gateway UE or not while using MBMS bearers, to minimize
the impact on the existing MC system.
## 5.5 Key issue 5 -- User traffic handling
User data traffic and signalling information needs to be routed to/from
user/clients residing on non-3GPP devices. The MC gateway UE needs to deal
with multiple non-3GPP devices on one side and with multiple bearers (LTE) and
5G QFIs on the network side. The communication content should be unchanged,
E2E encryption should be supported.
List of key issues:
\- Clarify how the MC gateway UE routes and maps the traffic data and
signalling information between non-3GPP devices and the network.
\- Clarify whether there are any limitations in the MC gateway UE network
connectivity aspects like max. number of PDU sessions, max. QFIs per PDU
session etc.
\- Elaborate how independent QoS and priority treatment of each communication
per MC service client is enabled for a MC service user behind an MC gateway
UE.
\- Clarify how the content of a MC service user/client communication beyond an
MC gateway UE remains unchanged.
\- Clarify how end-to-end encryption (E2EE) is enabled for MC service
users/clients residing on non-3GPP devices.
## 5.6 Key issue 6 -- Use of multiple MC gateway UEs
An MC service client can use multiple MC gateway UEs that are bound to the
same MC system while using the associated MC service per gateway. Potential
impacts to the functional architecture and/or the MC service client
capabilities are to be studied to develop proper mechanisms and procedures.
List of key issues:
\- Clarify the potential impact to the MC service client capabilities when
using multiple MC gateway UEs.
\- Clarify the potential impact to the MC gateway UE capabilities in a multi
MC gateway UE environment.
\- Describe the functional architecture supporting more than one MC gateway
UE, as extension of the single MC gateway UE functional architecture.
5.7 Key issue 7 -- 3GPP access network related location management by MC
Clients
Location management server may not be aware whether the MC service clients are
residing on 3GPP devices or non 3GPP-devices when providing the location
reporting configuration and when requesting the location information from the
location management client. The MC clients residing on the non-3GPP devices
may get the Location reporting configuration containing the trigger criteria
related to 3GPP access network related location parameters. There may be some
issues if the MC clients detects that it cannot handle the location reporting
trigger criteria related to the 3GPP access network information or if it
cannot provide the requested location information related to the 3GPP access
network.
List of key issues:
\- Whether and how the 3GPP access network related location trigger criteria
are handled
\- Clarify how the 3GPP access network related location information of MC
service clients residing on non-3GPP devices is known to the MC system when
required.
# 6 Architectural requirements
NOTE: No architectural requirements were identified.
# 7 Solutions
## 7.1 Functional architecture
### 7.1.1 General
This solution addresses the key issue 1 described in clause 5.1 on defining a
functional architecture when using an MC gateway UE.
### 7.1.2 Solution description
#### 7.1.2.1 Functional architecture
The MC gateway UE offers access to the MC server for several MC clients (see
Figure 7.1.2-1). The MC clients can be either located in the MC gateway UE or
in non-3GPP devices connected to the MC gateway UE via non-3GPP access.
For non-3GPP devices which can host an MC client, the MC gateway UE enables
connectivity to the MC server. For non-3GPP devices which cannot host the MC
client, the MC gateway UE hosts the instantiation of the MC client for the
non-3GPP device.
Figure 7.1.2.1-1: Functional architecture
The MC gateway UE provides MC service capabilities and 3GPP access
capabilities using 3GPP network credentials for authorized access with an MC
server.
For non-3GPP devices which cannot host MC clients, the MC gateway UE shall
control the access and manage the communication between the non-3GPP devices
and the MC server. Upon reception of connection authorisation request from a
non-3GPP device, the MC gateway UE instantiates an MC client, acting on behalf
of the non-3GPP device, to provide the requested services (e.g. emergency
call, group calls, short data messages services, etc.). The communication
interworking and the definition of associated procedures between the MC client
(initiated at the MC gateway UE) and the non-3GPP devices is out of scope of
this document.
NOTE 1: MC clients residing on a non-3GPP device cannot use UICC credentials
to perform authorisation with the 3GPP transport system.
For MC clients getting MC service access via the MC gateway UE, the MC gateway
UE forwards (unmodified) signalling and media from the individual MC clients
to the MC server and vice versa.
If the MC service user on the non-3GPP device utilizes multiple MC services
simultaneously, the MC service access may also be provided by one or multiple
MC gateway UEs (see figure 7.1.2.1-2) while restricting each MC service to one
MC gateway UE (e.g. MCPTT via MC gateway UE1, MCData via MC gateway UE2).
Figure 7.1.2.1-2: Simultaneous multiple MC gateway UE use by a single non-3GPP
device
NOTE 2: Even not shown in the above figure, the same principle of simultaneous
use of multiple MC gateway UEs is applied for non-3GPP devices which cannot
host an MC client.
#### 7.1.2.2 Reference points
For application level signaling between the MC client on the non-3GPP device
and the MC gateway UE a new reference point called CSC-GW is introduced. The
MC gateway UE uses existing reference points (CSC-n) toward the MC server.
Figure 7.1.2.2-1: Reference points
The reference points CSC-n belonging to the application plane and the
reference points SIP-1 and HTTP-1 belonging to the signaling control plane are
used by the MC client on the non-3GPP device towards the MC gateway UE and the
MC gateway UE relays the application and control plane signaling further to
the MC server.
CSC-n, SIP-1 and HTTP-1 reference points are specified in 3GPP TS 23.280 [5].
The corresponding MCX-n reference points are specified in 3GPP TS 23.379 [6],
3GPP TS 23.281 [7] and 3GPP TS 23.282 [8].
The CSC-GW reference point, which exists between the MC gateway client and the
MC gateway UE client residing on the non-3GPP device and the MC gateway UE
server residing on the MC gateway UE, is used for connection authorisation of
non-3GPP devices with an MC gateway UE. For connection authorisation, the
connection authorisation request will be forwarded by the MC gateway UE server
via the corresponding MC service client residing on the MC gateway UE (see
clause 7.3.4). CSC-GW is also used to request the forwarding of the media from
the MC gateway UE by the MC client (see figure 7.1.2.3-1) using corresponding
identifiers, e.g. TMGI, applicable for multicast/broadcast-based
communication.
For signalling, the MC clients utilize the allocated resources (default bearer
for EPS or QoS flow in 5GS) between MC gateway UE and MC server. The MC
gateway UE maps the signaling traffic between MC clients and MC server.
#### 7.1.2.3 Media plane
On the media plane a communication between the MC client on the non-3GPP
device and is distributed both via non-3GPP access and via 3GPP access.
Traffic from multiple MC clients may be transferred on the 3GPP access branch,
depending on how many MC clients are served by the MC gateway UE. For that,
the MC gateway UE has a media distribution function to relay the traffic on
the non-3GPP access and the 3GPP access branch for unicast and multicast
communications and multiple MC clients properly.
Figure 7.1.2.3-1: Media plane
### 7.1.3 Solution evaluation
The functional architecture describes how non-3GPP devices, which are
connected via non-3GPP access to an MC gateway UE, are connected to the MC
system. One type of non-3GPP devices can host MC clients, where a second type
cannot host MC clients and so the MC gateway UE hosts them for the non-3GPP
device. The use of multiple MC gateway UEs simultaneously by an MC client is
described.
The reference points for the signalling control plane and the media plane,
including MBMS, are described.
## 7.2 Connection authorisation with the MC gateway UE
### 7.2.1 General
This solution addresses the key issue 2 described in clause 5.2 on
authorisation for connection of non-3GPP devices with an MC gateway UE. The
solution only applies to non-3GPP devices which can host an MC client.
With this procedure the MC gateway UE performs authorization for the use of
the MC gateway UE by the MC client, i.e. the binding between the MC gateway UE
and the MC client is authorized and controlled by the MC gateway UE. The
solution implies that authorisation functionality is provided by the MC
gateway UE.
### 7.2.2 Information flows
#### 7.2.2.1 Connection authorization request
Table 7.2.2.1-1 describes the information flow connection authorization
request sent from the MC client, which resides on a non-3GPP device, to the MC
gateway UE.
Table 7.2.2.1-1: Connection authorization request
* * *
Information element Status Description GW MC service ID (see NOTE) M The GW MC
service ID of the requesting MC service user. NOTE: The GW MC service ID
indicates for which MC service the connection is to be authorised.
* * *
NOTE: The MC service ID used for MC service authorisation and the GW MC
service ID used for connection authorization may have different values. Both
identities are configured by the Mission Critical Organisation.
#### 7.2.2.2 Connection authorization response
Table 7.2.2.2-1 describes the information flow connection authorization
response sent from the MC gateway UE to the MC client.
Table 7.2.2.2-1: Connection authorization response
* * *
Information element Status Description GW MC service ID M The GW MC service ID
of the requesting MC service user. Response M Result of the connection
authorization request, service feasibility, and connection evaluation.
* * *
### 7.2.3 MC service UE configuration data
Table 7.2.3-1 describes the MC service UE configuration data which must be
known by an MC service UE after MC service authorization.
**Table 7.2.3-1: UE configuration data (on network)**
**Reference** **Parameter description**
* * *
Subclause 5.15 of 3GPP TS 22.280 [3] List of permitted GW MC service ID > GW
MC service ID
### 7.2.4 Initial MC gateway UE configuration data
The initial MC gateway UE configuration data is essential to the MC gateway UE
to successfully connect MC clients to the MC system. The initial MC gateway UE
configuration data can be the same or different across MC gateway UEs.
Data in table 7.2.4-1 is provided to the MC gateway UE during the bootstrap
process and can be configured on the MC gateway UE offline using the CSC-11
reference point or via other means.
Table 7.2.4-1: Initial MC gateway UE configuration data (on-network)
Reference Parameter description
* * *
Subclause 5.15 of 3GPP TS 22.280 [3] List of permitted GW MC service IDs for
MCPTT > GW MC service ID Subclause 5.15 of 3GPP TS 22.280 [3] List of
permitted GW MC service IDs for MCVideo > GW MC service ID Subclause 5.15 of
3GPP TS 22.280 [3] List of permitted GW MC service IDs for MCData > GW MC
service ID
NOTE: Configured MC service IDs indicate the support of an MC service.
### 7.2.5 Procedure
The procedure for connection authorisation with an MC gateway UE is shown in
figure 7.2.5-1.
Pre-conditions
\- The MC service user wishes to have access to MC services by using a
non-3GPP device.
\- The MC client has been configured with the necessary parameters needed for
connectivity with the MC gateway UE.
\- The MC client has been provided with an appropriate GW MC service ID.
\- The MC gateway UE has performed service authorization for one or more MC
services with the MC system.
\- The MC service user has selected an MC gateway UE or alternatively, the MC
client has performed a selection by internal criteria.
NOTE 1: The internal criteria are outside the scope of the present document.
Figure 7.2.5-1: Connection authorisation with the MC gateway UE
1\. The MC client requests connection authorization with the MC gateway UE.
The MC client of the MC service user provides the GW MC service ID.
2\. The MC gateway UE performs an authorization check by using the provided GW
MC service ID to verify that the MC service user is permitted to use the MC
gateway UE to access an MC server.
In addition, the MC gateway UE checks whether:
\- the requested MC service, as indicated by the GW MC service ID, is
supported by the MC gateway UE;
\- a network status information is available, the MC gateway UE should check
if the resources and network coverage are sufficient for the requested service
at the current location for the specific MC client sending the connection
authorization request;
\- a roaming scenario has been identified (e.g. switch between EPC and 5GC),
then depending on operator policy, roaming agreements, and on
national/regional regulatory requirements further check on the received
request should be performed (e.g. a decision on how to handle the IP
connectivity, the QoS Flows, etc.);
\- the number of UEs present in a geographical area indicates that the maximum
capacity is reached or a congestion status is occurred (i.e. in such situation
pre-defined access control, access identities & access category rules will be
used to handle the communication priority);
\- the requested QoS can be provided under the current network operating
conditions;
\- a release mismatch is identified between the MC gateway UE and MC client or
has been identified between the MC gateway UE and the MC server.
NOTE 2: The authorization check mechanism is outside the scope of the present
document. Further checks, for example. could be based on a pre-configured list
of users who are expected to request connection authorization with the MC
gateway UE.
3\. The MC gateway UE sends the connection authorization response to the MC
client.
After successful connection with the MC gateway UE, the MC client has now
access to an MC server and may continue with user authentication and service
authorization.
If the MC service user wishes to have access to another MC service, the above
procedure is repeated. The MC service user may select a different MC gateway
UE for the new MC service, if multiple MC gateway UEs are available.
### 7.2.6 Solution evaluation
The authorization check performed by the MC gateway UE requires up to date
information which must be pre-configured.
The MC gateway UE acts as an MC application connection node which enables and
handles user signalling traffic and media plane traffic individually, i.e. on
a per MC service user basis, between the MC client and the corresponding MC
server.
## 7.3 Connection authorisation with an MC server via an MC gateway UE
### 7.3.1 General
This solution addresses the key issue 2 described in clause 5.2 on
authorisation for connection of non-3GPP devices with an MC gateway UE. The
solution only applies to non-3GPP devices which can host an MC client.
With this procedure the MC server performs authorization for the use of the MC
gateway UE by the MC client, i.e. the binding between the MC gateway UE and
the MC client is authorized and controlled by the MC server. The MC gateway UE
is not acting as the authorisation instance which authenticates MC clients.
### 7.3.2 Information flows
#### 7.3.2.1 Connection authorization request
Table 7.3.2.1-1 describes the information flow connection authorization
request sent from the MC client, which resides on a non-3GPP device, to the MC
gateway UE, and from the MC gateway UE to the MC server.
Table 7.3.2.1-1: Connection authorization request
* * *
Information element Status Description GW MC service ID M The GW MC service ID
of the requesting MC service user. NOTE: The GW MC service ID indicates for
which MC service the connection is to be authorised.
* * *
NOTE: The MC service ID used for MC service authorisation and the GW MC
service ID used for connection authorization may have different values. Both
identities are configured by the Mission Critical Organisation.
#### 7.3.2.2 Connection authorization response
Table 7.3.2.2-1 describes the information flow connection authorization
response sent from the MC server to the MC gateway UE, and from the MC gateway
UE to the MC client residing on a non-3GPP device.
Table 7.3.2.2-1: Connection authorization response
* * *
Information element Status Description GW MC service ID M The GW MC service ID
of the requesting MC service user. Response M Result of the connection
authorization request, service feasibility, and connection evaluation.
* * *
### 7.3.3 MC server configuration data
Table 7.3.3-1 describes configuration data to be stored in the MC server to
perform an authorization check to verify that access via the MC gateway UE is
permitted.
Table 7.3.3-1: MC service configuration data (on‑network)
Reference Parameter description MC client MC server Configuration management
server
* * *
Subclause 5.15 of 3GPP TS 22.280 [3] List of permitted GW MC service ID(s) N Y
Y > GW MC service ID N Y Y
### 7.3.4 Initial MC gateway UE configuration data
The initial MC gateway UE configuration data is essential to the MC gateway UE
to successfully connect MC clients to the MC system. The initial MC gateway UE
configuration data can be the same or different across MC gateway UEs.
Data in table 7.3.4-1 is provided to the MC gateway UE during the bootstrap
process and can be configured on the MC gateway UE offline using the CSC-11
reference point or via other means.
Table 7.3.4-1: Initial MC gateway UE configuration data (on-network)
Reference Parameter description
* * *
Subclause 5.15 of 3GPP TS 22.280 [3] List of permitted GW MC service IDs for
MCPTT > GW MC service ID Subclause 5.15 of 3GPP TS 22.280 [3] List of
permitted GW MC service IDs for MCVideo > GW MC service ID Subclause 5.15 of
3GPP TS 22.280 [3] List of permitted GW MC service IDs for MCData > GW MC
service ID
NOTE: Configured MC service IDs indicate the support of an MC service.
### 7.3.5 Procedure
The procedure for connection authorisation via an MC gateway UE towards an MC
server is shown in figure 7.3.5-1.
Pre-conditions
\- The MC service user wishes to have access to MC services using a non-3GPP
device.
\- The MC client has been configured with the necessary parameters needed for
connectivity with the MC gateway UE.
\- The MC client has been provided with an appropriate GW MC service ID.
\- The MC gateway UE has performed service authorization for one or more MC
services with the MC system.
\- The MC service user has selected an MC gateway UE or alternatively, the MC
client has performed a selection by internal criteria.
NOTE: The internal criteria are outside the scope of the present document.
Figure 7.3.5-1: Connection authorisation with an MC server via an MC gateway
UE
1\. The MC client requests connection authorization via the MC gateway UE with
an MC server. The client of the MC service user provides the GW MC service ID.
2\. The MC gateway UE checks whether:
\- the requested MC service, as indicated by the GW MC service ID, is
supported by the MC service gateway --
\- a network status information is available; the MC gateway UE should check
if the resources and network coverage are sufficient for the requested service
at the current location for the specific MC client sending the connection
authorization request;
\- a roaming scenario has been identified (e.g. switch between EPC and 5GC),
then depending on operator policy, roaming agreements, and on
national/regional regulatory requirements further check on the received
request should be performed (e.g. a decision on how to handle the IP
connectivity, the QoS Flows, etc.);
\- the number of UEs present in a geographical area indicates that the maximum
capacity is reached or a congestion status is occurred (i.e. in such situation
pre-defined access control, access identities & access category rules will be
used to handle the communication priority);
\- the requested QoS can be provided under the current network operating
conditions;
\- a release mismatch is identified between the MC gateway UE and MC client or
has been identified between the MC gateway UE and the MC server.
If the MC service is supported, the procedure continues with step 3, otherwise
the procedure proceeds with step 7.
3\. The MC gateway UE sends the connection authorization request to the MC
server.
4\. The MC server performs an authorization check, to verify that access via
the MC gateway UE is permitted.
5\. The MC server sends the connection authorization response to the MC
gateway UE.
6\. The MC gateway UE marks the MC client as authorized to have MC service
access via the MC gateway UE.
7\. The MC gateway UE sends the connection authorization response to the MC
client.
After successful connection with the MC gateway UE, the MC client has now
access to the MC server and may continue with user authentication and service
authorization.
If the MC service user wishes to have access to another MC service, the above
procedure is repeated. The MC service user may select a different MC gateway
UE for the new MC service, if multiple MC gateway UEs are available.
### 7.3.6 Solution evaluation
The MC gateway UE is not required to check whether the MC service user can
have MC service access via the MC gateway UE.
The MC gateway UE acts as an MC application connection node which enables and
handles user signalling traffic and media plane traffic individually, i.e. on
per MC service user basis, between the MC client and the corresponding MC
server.
## 7.4 Using IMS identities behind the MC gateway UE
### 7.4.1 General
This solution addresses the key issue 3 described in clause 5.3 on
identification of MC service users behind an MC gateway UE residing on
non-3GPP devices.
### 7.4.2 Solution description
The MC gateway UE offers access to the MC system for several MC service
clients. The MC service clients can be either located in the MC gateway UE or
in non-3GPP devices connected to the MC gateway UE via non-3GPP access.
Simultaneous sharing of an MC gateway UE by various MC service clients
requires a relationship between the MC service identities used by the MC
service clients with media streams passing the MC gateway UE towards the MC
system to share the network transport resources of the MC gateway UE.
It is assumed that the MC service user behind the MC gateway UE has no 3GPP
transport access credentials (i.e. no UICC), whereas the MC system relies on
IMS identities (i.e. IMPUs/IMPIs) needed for authorisation with the IMS. In
addition, in MC systems there exist a one-to-one correspondence of MC service
IDs with IMPUs for enabling routing of signalling traffic between the MC
service server and the MC service client.
Taking the above into account two options are considered.
Option 1 (see figure 7.4.2-1) relies on MC service IDs provided by the MC
gateway UE. The MC service clients behind the MC gateway UE share the
credentials from the IMS subscription of the MC gateway UE. The number of MC
service clients behind the MC gateway UE is determined by the number of
subscribed MC service IDs that are associated with the IMS subscription of the
MC gateway UE.
Figure 7.4.2-1: Sharing the MC gateway UE\'s IMS subscription
Option 2 (see figure 7.4.2-2) relies on the use of the IMS Credentials (IMC)
application specified in 3GPP TS 23.228 [4]. The MC service clients behind the
MC gateway UE use their own IMS subscription and do not rely on the IMS
subscription from the MC gateway UE. The number of MC service clients behind
the MC gateway UE is independent from the number of subscribed MC service IDs
that are associated with the IMS subscription of the MC gateway UE.
Figure 7.4.2-2: Using independent IMS subscriptions
Both options support an unambiguous identification of MC service clients
behind the MC gateway UE. Option 2 also has the degree of freedom that the
user profiles associated with the devices behind the MC gateway UE are
independent of the MC gateway user profile.
### 7.4.3 Solution evaluation
Both options support an unambiguous identification of MC service clients
behind the MC gateway UE and multiple simultaneous MC gateway UE use. Option 2
offers the degree of freedom that the user profiles used on the non -3GPP
devices behind the MC gateway UE are independent from those of the MC gateway
user profile. Whereas the pre-configuration of IMPUs for option 1 is not very
flexible and sharing of IMPUs between different MC clients might have
additional implications (e.g. managing of available IMPUs between MC clients).
Option 2 seems not to have any significant drawbacks, has less implications
regarding pre-configuration and is more future proof (e.g. parallel use of
multiple MC gateway UEs).
Option 2 is selected as way forward, i.e. on MC clients capable to host MC
service clients separate IMS subscriptions are used, while for non-3GPP
devices which cannot host MC client(s) the use IMS subscription(s) provided by
the serving MC gateway UE(s) is applied.
## 7.5 Connection authorisation for non-3GPP devices that do not host an MC
client
### 7.5.1 General
This solution addresses the key issue 2 described in clause 5.2 on
authorisation for connection of non-3GPP devices with an MC gateway UE. The
solution is applied to non-3GPP devices which cannot host an MC client.
With this procedure the MC server performs authorization for the use of the MC
gateway UE by the MC client, i.e. the binding between the MC gateway UE and
the MC client is authorized and controlled by the MC server.
NOTE: The interworking between the MC client hosted at the MC gateway UE and
an MC service user is out of scope of the present document, nevertheless, the
connection authorisation performed by the MC gateway UE shall enable the
non-3GPP devices to get the access to MC services requested by the service
user.
### 7.5.2 Information flows
#### 7.5.2.1 Connection authorization request
Table 7.5.2.1-1 describes the information flow connection authorization
request sent from the MC client, which resides on a MC gateway UE, to the MC
server.
Table 7.5.2.1-1: Connection authorization request
* * *
Information element Status Description GW MC service ID M The GW MC service ID
of the requesting MC service user. NOTE: The GW MC service ID indicates for
which MC service the connection is to be authorised.
* * *
NOTE: The MC service ID used for MC service authorisation and the GW MC
service ID used for connection authorization may have different values. Both
identities are configured by the Mission Critical Organisation.
#### 7.5.2.2 Connection authorization response
Table 7.5.2.2-1 describes the information flow connection authorization
response sent from the MC server to the MC client residing on the MC gateway
UE.
Table 7.5.2.2-1: Connection authorization response
* * *
Information element Status Description GW MC service ID M The GW MC service ID
of the requesting MC service user. Result M Success or failure of the
connection authorization request (authorization successful/failed; service not
supported).
* * *
### 7.5.3 MC server configuration data
Table 7.5.3-1 describes configuration data to be stored in the MC server to
perform an authorization check to verify that access via the MC gateway UE is
permitted.
Table 7.5.3-1: MC service configuration data (on‑network)
Reference Parameter description MC client MC server Configuration management
server
* * *
Subclause 5.15 of 3GPP TS 22.280 [3] List of permitted GW MC service ID(s) N Y
Y > GW MC service ID N Y Y
### 7.5.4 Initial MC gateway UE configuration data
The initial MC gateway UE configuration data is essential to the MC gateway UE
to successfully connect MC clients to the MC system. The initial MC gateway UE
configuration data can be the same or different across MC gateway UEs.
Data in Table 7.5.4-1 is provided to the MC gateway UE during the bootstrap
process and can be configured on the MC gateway UE offline using the CSC-11
reference point or via other means.
Table 7.5.4-1: Initial MC gateway UE configuration data (on-network)
Reference Parameter description
* * *
Subclause 5.15 of 3GPP TS 22.280 [3] List of GW MC service IDs for MCPTT > GW
MC service ID Subclause 5.15 of 3GPP TS 22.280 [3] List of GW MC service IDs
for MCVideo > GW MC service ID Subclause 5.15 of 3GPP TS 22.280 [3] List of GW
MC service IDs for MCData > GW MC service ID
NOTE: Configured MC service IDs indicate the support of an MC service.
7.5.5 Procedure
The procedure for connection authorisation of an MC client hosted by the MC
gateway UE towards an MC server is shown in figure 7.5.5-1.
Pre-conditions
\- The MC service user wishes to have access to MC services using a non-3GPP
device, where the MC client is hosted by the MC gateway UE.
\- The MC service user has selected an MC gateway UE or alternatively, the
non-3GPP has performed a selection by internal criteria.
NOTE: The internal criteria are outside the scope of the present document.
\- The MC client, which is hosted by the MC gateway UE, has been configured
with the necessary parameters needed for connectivity with the MC gateway UE.
\- The MC gateway UE has performed service authorization for one or more MC
services with the MC system.
Figure 7.5.5-1: Connection authorisation of an MC client hosted by an MC
gateway UE
1\. The MC client, hosted by the MC gateway UE, requests connection
authorization with an MC server by providing the GW MC service ID. The MC
gateway UE sends the connection authorization request to the MC server.
2\. The MC server performs an authorization check, to verify that access using
the MC gateway UE is permitted.
3\. The MC server sends the connection authorization response to the MC client
residing on the MC gateway UE.
The MC client has now access to the MC server and may continue with user
authentication and service authorization.
If the MC service user wishes to have access to another MC service, the above
procedure is repeated. The MC service user may select a different MC gateway
UE for the new MC service, if multiple MC gateway UEs are available.
### 7.5.6 Solution evaluation
The non-3GPP device is not required to host an MC client, instead the MC
gateway UE hosts the MC client for the non-3GPP device.
The MC gateway UE acts as an MC application connection node which enables and
handles user signalling traffic and media plane traffic individually, i.e. on
per MC service user basis, between the non-3GPP device and the corresponding
MC server.
## 7.6 3GPP access network related location information management
### 7.6.1 General
This solution addresses the key issue 7 described in the clause 5.7 on 3GPP
access network related location management by MC clients. The solution only
applies to non-3GPP devices which can host an MC client, and which cannot
handle the location reporting configuration related to the 3GPP access network
by itself.
With this procedure the MC client requests the MC gateway UE to handle the
location reporting configuration related to the 3GPP access network. Also, MC
clients can fetch the 3GPP access network related location information if it
requires to report the same to the MC system.
### 7.6.2 Information flows
#### 7.6.2.1 MC GW Location reporting configuration
Table 7.6.2.1-1 describes the information flow from the MC client, which
resides on a non-3GPP device, to the MC gateway UE for the location reporting
configuration.
Table 7.6.2.1-1: MC GW Location reporting configuration
+-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | GW MC service ID | M | The GW MC service ID of | | | | the requesting MC | | | | service user | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | Requested location | O (see NOTE 1) | Identifies what | | information | | location information is | | | | requested | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | Triggering criteria | O (see NOTE 1) | Identifies when the | | | | location management | | | | client will send the | | | | location report (see | | | | NOTE 2) | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | Minimum time between | O (see NOTE 1) | Defaults to 0 if absent | | consecutive reports | | | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | NOTE 1: If none of the | | | | information elements is | | | | present, this | | | | represents a | | | | cancellation for | | | | location reporting, if | | | | configured. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The triggering | | | | criteria contains only | | | | the events related to | | | | the 3GPP access | | | | network. | | | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+
#### 7.6.2.2 MC GW Location information report
Table 7.6.2.2-1 describes the information flow from the MC gateway UE to the
MC client residing on a non-3GPP device for the location information
reporting.
Table 7.6.2.2-1: MC GW Location information report
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | GW MC service ID | M | The GW MC service ID of the | | | | requesting MC service user | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Triggering event | O | Identity of the event that | | | | triggered the sending of | | | | the report | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Location information | O | Location information of the | | | | MC gateway UE | | (see NOTE) | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | NOTE: The following | | | | location information | | | | elements which are related | | | | to 3GPP access network | | | | shall be present | | | | (configurable): Serving and | | | | neighbouring ECGI, MBMS | | | | SAIs, MBMSfnArea, PLMN ID. | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
#### 7.6.2.3 MC GW Location information request
Table 7.6.2.3-1 describes the information flow from the MC client residing on
a non-3GPP device to the MC gateway UE for requesting an immediate location
information report.
Table 7.6.2.3-1: MC GW Location information request
* * *
Information element Status Description GW MC service ID M The GW MC service ID
of the requesting MC service user
* * *
### 7.6.3 Procedure
#### 7.6.3.1 Event-triggered location reporting procedure
The procedure for how the MC clients residing on non-3GPP devices handling the
location reporting configuration containing the trigger criteria related to
the 3GPP access network related location information is shown in the figure
7.6.3.1-1.
Pre-conditions
\- The MC service user wishes to have access to MC services by using a
non-3GPP device.
\- The MC client successfully completed service authorization via MC gateway
UE.
Figure 7.6.3.1-1: Event-triggered location reporting procedure
1\. MC client receives the location reporting configuration request from LMS
which contains the triggering criteria of 3GPP access network related location
information changes.
2\. MC client sends the MC GW Location reporting configuration to the MC
gateway UE containing the 3GPP access network related location information
triggers and the requested location information. MC Gateway UE stores the
location reporting configuration and starts monitoring for the triggers as
received in the MC GW location reporting configuration.
3\. A location reporting event occurs, triggering step 4.
4\. MC gateway UE sends the MC GW Location information report containing the
location information requested by the MC client.
5\. MC client updates the locally available location information with the
location information received from the MC gateway UE.
6\. The MC client sends a location information report to the location
management server, containing location information identified by the location
management server and available to the MC client.
#### 7.6.4.2 On-demand location reporting procedure
The MC client may need to immediately send the location report to the location
management sometimes and the requested location information may be related to
the 3GPP access network. Under these circumstances the MC client can request
the MC gateway UE to report its location information as described in the
figure 7.6.4.2-1.
Pre-conditions
\- The MC service user wishes to have access to MC services by using a
non-3GPP device.
\- The MC client successfully completed service authorization via MC Gateway
UE.
Figure 7.6.4.2-1: On-demand location reporting procedure
1\. MC client receives the location information request from LMS to send the
location information immediately or any other events where it has to send the
location report to the location management server immediately like initial
login, group call etc. Requested location information includes the location
information related to 3GPP access network.
2\. MC service user is notified and asked for permission to share location
information. MC service user can accept or deny the request.
3\. MC client sends the MC GW Location information request to the MC Gateway
requesting for the location information related to the 3GPP access network of
the MC Gateway UE.
4\. MC gateway UE sends the MC GW Location information report containing the
location information requested by the MC client.
5\. MC client updates the locally available location information with the
location information received from the MC gateway UE.
6\. The MC client sends a location information report to the location
management server, containing location information identified by the location
management server and available to the MC client.
#### 7.6.5.3 Location reporting cancel procedure
The location reporting cancel procedure reuses the information flow of
location reporting configuration.
Pre-conditions
\- The MC service user wishes to have access to MC services by using a
non-3GPP device.
\- The MC client successfully completed service authorization via MC gateway
UE.
\- The MC client no longer needs the location information report from MC
gateway UE.
Figure 7.6.5.3-1: On-demand location reporting procedure
1\. The location management client sends MC GW location reporting
configuration without any information element to the MC gateway UE to stop
location reporting from the MC gateway UE.
2\. The MC gateway UE stops sending location information reports to the MC
client.
### 7.6.4 Solution evaluation
This solution provides an additional information flows which are exchanged
between the MC gateway UE and the MC clients residing on non‑3GPP devices to
ensure that the MC clients can handle the location reporting configuration
containing the triggering criteria related to the 3GPP access network
information and also provide the location information related to the 3GPP
access network when requested.
## 7.7 Routing of data and signalling by the MC gateway UE
### 7.7.1 General
This solution addresses the key issue 5 described in clause 5.5 on clarifying
how the MC gateway UE routes and maps the traffic data and signalling
information between non-3GPP devices and the network.
Two different options are envisaged.
### 7.7.2 MC client uses the IP address from the MC gateway UE
The connection authorization process takes place centrally with the inclusion
of the MC service server (see clause 7.3). The MC gateway UE stores the
correlation between the GW MC service ID and the IP address used by the MC
client once it receives the connection authorisation request. The assigned IP
address of the MC gateway UE (used for 3GPP transport) is used to forward the
connection authorization request from the MC client to the MC server, since
the MC client IP address is unknown to the MC system. The connection
authorization response is sent back accordingly from the MC server towards the
MC gateway UE, which then forwards it to the corresponding MC client.
Subsequent procedures initiated by the MC client, i.e. SIP registration, user
authentication and service authorisation, would also use the MC gateway UE\'s
IP address. The MC gateway UE\'s IP address would then also be used in the
case of local connection authorization (see clause 7.2).
The drawback of the approach is when the IP address of the MC gateway UE
changes, all active MC clients would be affected with their communication with
the MC server.
Figure 7.7.2-1: MC client uses MC gateway UE\'s IP address
### 7.7.3 MC client uses an own IP address
For communications between the MC client and the MC server via an MC gateway
UE, the MC client\'s IP address is also used for communications between the MC
gateway UE and the MC server. For this, the IP address range must be known by
the MC service environment beforehand to enable the MC client\'s host
(non-3GPP device) routing. In addition, it requires a correlation between the
MC client\'s IP address and the MC gateway UE\'s IP address as the next hop.
The advantage would be the independence between an MC gateway UE IP address
and the MC client IP address.
Figure 7.7.3-1: MC client uses local IP address
The approach below is referred to as routing behind the UE on an APN/DNN basis
enables the routing of packets to IP addresses that do not belong to the PDN
session or PDU session, but exist behind it. The routing behind (framed
routing) the UE functionality enables the routing of packets to IP addresses
that do not belong to the PDN/PDU session of the UE. The IP address of the MC
client associated with the non-3GPP device can be different than the MC GW UE
address.
The approach of framed routing (3GPP TS 23.501 [10], clause 5.6.14) in which
the prefix, i.e. IPv6 prefix, of the route to the corresponding host IP adress
is marked behind the UE. The corresponding UPF may indicate support of framed
routing by setting the FRRT flag in accordance to 3GPP TS 29.244 [11].
### 7.7.4 Solution evaluation
The options described in clause 7.7.2. and clause 7.7.3 take different
approaches. In the first approach, only the IP address of the MC gateway UE is
used for CP and UP traffic of the MC clients in relation to the SIP core and
the MC service servers. The MC gateway UE must provide additional functions
for routing and address mapping. Another disadvantage is that when the MC
gateway UE changes its IP address, all MC clients behind the MC gateway UE are
always affected. The use of the MC gateway UE IP address also requires the
detection of characteristics unique to a MC client, e.g. port mapping, in
order to be able to differentiate between the MC clients.
The second approach, using framed routing, enables the MC clients to act
independently of the MC gateway UE IP address. This also eliminates the
necessary IP address mapping function in the MC gateway UE and any type of
traffic, CP and UP, is uniquely associated with the MC client\'s IP address.
This option has been available since Rel-15 and is available for the use of
PDN session and PDU session.
## 7.8 MBMS Support for MC clients residing on non‑3GPP devices
### 7.8.1 General
This solution addresses the key issue #4 described in the clause 5.4 on MBMS
support. This solution in particular addresses the MBMS support for the MC
clients residing on the non-3GPP devices. The MC gateway UE learns the MBMS
bearer details from the MC clients and starts listening on them. MC gateway UE
forwards the data received over MBMS bearer to the MC clients residing on
non‑3GPP access and have requested MC gateway UE to listen on the MBMS bearer.
With this procedure MBMS bearer can be supported for the MC clients residing
on non-3GPP devices without requiring any changes at the MC system side.
Changes required are confined to the interface between MC gateway UE and the
MC clients residing on non‑3GPP devices. MC service server may rely on the
location information received from the MC clients as defined in clause 7.6
while deciding to establish MBMS bearer.
### 7.8.2 Information flows
#### 7.8.2.1 MC GW MBMS bearer announcement
Table 7.8.2.1-1 describes the information flow from the MC client which
resides on a non‑3GPP device to the MC gateway UE for sharing the details of
MBMS bearer announcement received by the MC Client from the MC Service server.
Table 7.8.2.1-1: MC GW MBMS bearer announcement
* * *
Information element Status Description MC GW service ID M The GW MC service ID
of the requesting MC service user. TMGI M TMGI information List of service
area identifier M A list of service area identifier for the applicable MBMS
broadcast area. Frequency O Identification of frequency if multi carrier
support is provided SDP information M SDP with media and floor control
information applicable to groups that can use this bearer (e.g. codec,
protocol id, FEC information) Monitoring state O The monitoring state is used
to control if the client is actively monitoring the MBMS bearer quality or
not. ROHC information O Indicate the usage of ROHC and provide the parameters
of the ROHC channel to signal to the ROHC decoder.
* * *
#### 7.8.2.2 MC GW MBMS listening status report
Table 7.8.2.2-1 describes the information flow from the MC gateway UE to the
MC client which resides on a non‑3GPP device for the MC GW MBMS listening
status report.
Table 7.8.2.2-1: MC GW MBMS listening status report
Information element Status Description
* * *
TMGI(s) M TMGI(s) information. MBMS listening status(s) M The MBMS listening
status per TMGI. MBMS reception quality level O The reception quality level
per TMGI Non 3GPP transport channel establishment parameters (See NOTE) O This
element contains the details of the non‑3GPP channel establishment parameters
(IP address, Port etc.) which is used by the MC gateway UE to forward the MC
service communication data received over 3GPP MBMS bearer to the MC client
NOTE: These parameters are implementation specific and are dependent on the
non 3GPP transport mechanism used between the MC client and MC gateway UE.
This parameter shall be present mandatorily if the MBMS bearer listening
status is success.
#### 7.8.2.3 MC GW MapGroupToBearer request
Table 7.8.2.3-1 describes the information flow from the MC client which
resides on a non‑3GPP device to the MC gateway UE for sharing the details of
MapGroupToBearer message received from the MC service server.
Table 7.8.2.3-1: MC GW MapGroupToBearer request
Information element Status Description
* * *
MC GW service ID M The GW MC service ID of the MC service user. MCPTT group ID
M This element identifies the MCPTT group, in which the call is started. Media
stream identifier M This element identifies the media stream of the SDP used
for the group call (e.g. MBMS subchannel). TMGI M The MBMS bearer identifier.
#### 7.8.2.4 MC GW MapGroupToBearer response
Table 7.8.2.4-1 describes the information flow from the MC gateway UE to the
MC client which resides on a non‑3GPP device for the MC GW MapGroupToBearer
response.
Table 7.8.2.4-1: MC GW MapGroupToBearer response
Information element Status Description
* * *
MapGroupToBearer Status M Success or failure response Non 3GPP transport
channel establishment parameters (See NOTE) M This elements contains the
details of the non 3GPP channel establishment parameters(IP address, Port
etc.,) which is used by the MC gateway UE to forward the MC service Group
communication data received over 3GPP MBMS bearer to the MC client NOTE: These
parameters are implementation specific and are dependent on the non 3GPP
transport mechanism used between the MC client and MC gateway UE
#### 7.8.2.5 MC GW MBMS bearer quality report
Table 7.8.2.5-1 describes the information flow from the MC gateway UE to the
MC client which resides on a non‑3GPP device for the MC GW MBMS bearer quality
report.
Table 7.8.2.5-1: MC GW MapGroupToBearer response
Information element Status Description
* * *
TMGI(s) M TMGI(s) information. MBMS listening status(s) M The MBMS listening
status per TMGI. MBMS reception quality level O The reception quality level
per TMGI
#### 7.8.2.6 MC GW MBMS bearer suspension indication
Table 7.8.2.6-1 describes the information flow from the MC gateway UE to the
MC client which resides on a non‑3GPP device for the MC GW MBMS bearer
suspension indication.
Table 7.8.2.6-1: MC GW MBMS bearer suspension indication
Information element Status Description
* * *
TMGI(s) M TMGI(s) information. MBMS suspension status(s) M The MBMS suspension
status per TMGI.
### 7.8.3 Procedure
#### 7.8.3.1 MBMS bearer announcement handling procedure
Whenever the MC clients residing on non-3GPP devices receives the MBMS bearer
announcements from the MC system, the MC clients shares the details of the
MBMS bearer received in MBMS bearer announcement to the MC gateway UE. This
enables the MC gateway UE to start monitoring the MBMS bearer.
Figure 7.8.3.1-1 illustrates the procedure for handling the MBMS bearer
announcement by the MC client and the MC gateway UE.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The MC client has been configured with the necessary parameters needed for
connectivity with the MC gateway UE.
2\. The MC client successfully completed service authorization via MC gateway
UE.
Figure 7.8.3.1-1: Handling of MBMS bearer announcement
1\. The MC service server establishes the MBMS bearer(s) according to the
procedures defined in 3GPP TS 23.468 [9]. Service description associated with
the MBMS bearer(s) is returned from the BM-SC.
2\. The MC service server provides service description information associated
with the MBMS bearer to the MC client residing on non‑3GPP devices via MC
gateway UE.
3\. The MC client sends the MC GW MBMS bearer announcement to the MC Gateway
UE containing the MBMS bearer related information.
4\. The MC Gateway UE stores the information associated with the TMGI(s). The
MC Gateway UE uses the TMGI and other MBMS bearer related information to
activate the monitoring of the MBMS bearer.
5\. The MC Gateway UE that enters or is in the service area of at least one
announced TMGI notifies to the MC client that it can receive data over MBMS by
sending the MC GW MBMS listening status report. The MC GW MBMS listening
status report also contains the details of the non‑3GPP transport
communication related parameters. The MC Gateway UE may choose to send the
details of existing communication channel information as part of Non 3GPP
transport channel establishment parameters IE if existing communication
channel can be reused.
6\. The MC client establishes the communication channel with the MC gateway UE
based on the parameters received in step 5 to receive the MC service data from
the MC gateway UE, if these parameters are not referring to any of the already
established communication channel. The MC Gateway UE forwards the MC service
data it received over the MBMS bearer from the MC service server to the MC
client over this communication channel.
7\. The MC Client sends the MBMS Listening Status Report to the MC Server
indicating that it is able to receive the media over MBMS.
#### 7.8.3.2 Procedure for handling MapGroupToBearer message
Whenever the MC client detects that the data received from MC service server
is MapGroupToBearer message and if the MC client participates in the group
session or communication identified by the MapGroupToBearer message then it
should inform the details contained in the MapGroupToBearer message to MC
gateway UE. When the association of group call, MBMS bearer and the MC GW
service ID of the MC client is known to the MC gateway UE, it can forward the
data received over MBMS bearer accordingly.
Figure 7.8.3.2-1 illustrates the procedure for handling the MapGroupToBearer
message by the MC client and the MC gateway UE.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The MC client has been configured with the necessary parameters needed for
connectivity with the MC gateway UE.
2\. The MC client successfully completed service authorization via MC gateway
UE.
Figure 7.8.3.2-1: Handling of MapGroupToBearer message
1\. The MC service server sends a MapGroupToBearer message over a previously
activated MBMS bearer to all users that will receive the call over an MBMS
bearer. The MapGroupToBearer message includes association information between
the group call and MBMS bearer. The MapGroupToBearer message includes MC
service group ID and information about the media stream identifier of the
activated MBMS bearer and may include the identifier (i.e. the TMGI) of the
MBMS bearer broadcasting the call.
2\. If the MC client is participating in the MC group communication identified
by the MapGroupToBearer message, it sends the details contained in the
MapGroupToBearer message to the MC gateway UE through MC GW MapGroupToBearer
request message.
3\. The MC gateway UE on receiving the MC GW MapGroupToBearer Request message
from the MC client it maintains the association between the GW MC Service ID
and the corresponding MBMS sub channel.
4\. The MC gateway UE sends the MC GW MapGroupToBearer response message to the
MC client which contains the details of the non‑3GPP transport communication
related parameters.
5\. The MC client establishes the communication channel with the MC gateway UE
based on the parameters received in step 4 to receive the MC service group
communication data from the MC gateway UE.
6\. The MC service server sends the downlink media for the group communication
session over the MBMS bearer.
7\. The MC gateway UE checks which MC clients should receive the media of the
MC group communication based on Step 3.
8\. The MC gateway UE forwards the downlink media to the intended MC clients
over the communication channel established as in step 5.
#### 7.8.3.3 Procedure for MBMS bearer suspension notification
The MC service server can choose to instruct some MC clients to send the MBMS
bearer suspension report when notified by RAN. When the MC clients are
residing on non‑3GPP devices, MC gateway UE would be the one listening on the
MBMS bearers. When RAN decides to suspend the MBMS bearer it indicates the MC
gateway UE. MC gateway UE to notify the MC clients it is serving so that MC
clients can report the same to the MC service server. This procedure is
applicable only if the MC client is instructed to report the MBMS bearer
suspension. Irrespective of whether the MC clients need to send the MBMS
bearer suspension report to the MC service server, MC gateway can choose to
notify the MC clients it is serving whenever RAN suspends the MBMS bearer. MC
clients can then decide to send the MBMS bearer suspension report to the MC
service server only if they are instructed by the MC service server.
Figure 7.8.3.3-1 illustrates the procedure for MC clients residing on non-3GPP
devices reporting the MC service server about the MBMS bearer suspension.
Figure 7.8.3.3-1: MBMS bearer suspension notification
#### 7.8.3.4 Procedure for reporting MBMS bearer quality
The MC Gateway UE listening on the MBMS bearer has to report the MBMS bearer
quality to the MC clients so that MC clients can report the same to the MC
service server. MC Gateway UE monitors an MBMS bearer to receive MC service
media. Based on the received quality (e.g. radio level quality) the MC Gateway
UE needs to inform the MC Clients which requested the MC Gateway UE to listen
on MBMS bearer, whether it is able to receive the MC service media on the MBMS
bearer with sufficient quality or not the MC Clients can inform the MC service
server accordingly.
Figure 7.8.3.4-1 illustrates the procedure for MC clients residing on non‑3GPP
devices reporting the MC service server about the MBMS bearer quality.
Pre-conditions:
1\. There is an MBMS bearer activated and the MBMS bearer information is
announced to the MC gateway UE.
2\. The MC gateway UE is located in the MBMS broadcasting area
3\. The MC gateway UE monitors SIB-13 (or SIB-20) and (SC-)MCCH to receive the
modulation and coding scheme.
4\. The MC gateway UE monitors the cell specific reference signal and when
MBSFN transmission is used, the MBSFN specific reference signals.
Figure 7.8.3.4-1: Reporting MBMS bearer quality
1\. The MC gateway UE follows the Step 1 of the procedure as described in 3GPP
TS 23.280 [5] clause 10.7.3.6.2 for the MC service UE. Instead of reporting
the bearer quality to the MC service server it has to inform all the MC
clients which has asked the MC gateway UE to listen on the particular MBMS
bearer.
2\. If the MBMS bearer quality reaches a certain threshold, the MC gateway UE
sends an MC GW MBMS Bearer Quality report to the MC Client. The threshold is
used to define the MBMS listening status, which indicates if the MBMS bearer
quality has been acceptable or not to receive a specific MC service media. If
the MBMS bearer quality is mapped to a different MBMS reception quality level,
the MC gateway UE may send an MBMS Bearer Quality report including the MBMS
reception quality level to the MC Client.
3\. The MC Client sends the MBMS listening status report to the MC Service
server via MC Gateway UE containing the information received in the MC GW MBMS
Bearer Quality report.
4\. The MC service server may send additional proposal for measurements e.g.
information about neighbouring MBMS bearers. This message may be an MBMS
bearer announcement message.
### 7.8.4 Solution Evaluation
This solution provides additional information flows and procedures required to
support MBMS transmissions for the MC service clients operating on non‑3GPP
devices and accessing the MC system through MC gateway UE. Changes required to
support MBMS transmissions are confined to the interface between the MC
service clients and the MC gateway UE. Existing information flows and
procedures which are defined for supporting the MBMS transmissions for the MC
service clients operating on a 3GPP devices remains unaltered and same is re-
used for MC service clients operating on a non‑3GPP devices.
# 8 Overall evaluation
## 8.1 Key issue and solution evaluation
### 8.1.1 Introduction
All the key issues and solutions specified in this technical report are listed
in table 8.1.2-1. It includes the mapping of the key issues (clause 5) to the
solutions (clause 7) and corresponding solution evaluations.
In addition, table 8.1.2-1 lists the impacts to other working groups that will
need consideration during the Rel-18 normative phase.
### 8.1.2 Results
Table 8.1.2-1: Key issues, solutions and solution evaluations
Key issues Solution Evaluation (clause reference) Dependency on other working
groups
* * *
Key issue #1: Functional Architecture for an MC gateway UE Solution #1:
Functional architecture Clause 7.1.3 None Key issue #2: Authorisation for
connection of non-3GPP devices with an MC gateway UE Solution #2: Connection
authorisation with the MC gateway UE Clause 7.2.6 None Solution #3: Connection
authorisation with an MC server via an MC gateway UE Clause 7.3.6 None
Solution #5: Connection authorisation for non-3GPP devices that do not host an
MC client Clause 7.5.6 None Key issue #3: Identification of MC service users
behind an MC gateway UE residing on non-3GPP devices Solution #4: Using IMS
identities behind the MC gateway UE Clause 7.4.3 None Key issue #4: MBMS
support Solution #1: Functional architecture Clause 7.1.3 None Solution #8:
MBMS Support for MC clients residing on non 3GPP devices Clause 7.8.4 None Key
issue#5: User traffic handling Solution #2: Connection authorisation with the
MC gateway UE Clause 7.2.6 None Solution #3: Connection authorisation with an
MC server via an MC gateway UE Clause 7.3.6 None Solution #7: Routing of data
and signalling by the MC gateway UE Clause 7.7.4 None Key issue #6: Use of
multiple MC gateway UEs Covered by solutions #1, #2, #3, #4 and #5 Covered by
the solution specific evaluation clauses As stated by the specific solution
Key issue #7: 3GPP access network related location management by MC Clients
Solution #6: 3GPP access network related location information management
Clause 7.6.4 None
# 9 Conclusions
This technical report fulfills the objective to study solutions to satisfy the
stage 1 requirements for a MC gateway UE function. It identifies enhancements
to be included in the technical specifications for MCPTT, MCVideo, MCData and
in the common functional architecture to support mission critical
communications.
The results from the study will be considered for follow-up normative work in
Rel-18 as follows:
1) The functional architecture (clause 7.1) is used as starting point to
develop a proper functional model to support the MC Gateway UE functionality.
2) The solution connection authorisation with an MC server via an MC gateway
UE (clause 7.3) will be used to define the authorisation procedure for an MC
client hosted by a non-3GPP device.
3) The solution connection authorisation for non-3GPP devices that do not host
an MC client (clause 7.5) will be used to define the authorisation procedure
for an MC client which cannot be hosted by a non-3GPP device.
4) Option 2 of solution on using IMS identities behind the MC gateway UE
(clause 7.4) will be used, where MC clients capable to host MC service clients
use dedicated IMS subscriptions, and non-3GPP devices which cannot host an MC
client make use of the IMS subscription provided by the serving MC gateway UE.
5) The solution 3GPP access network related location information management
(clause 7.6) will be used to define the 3GPP access network related location
management procedures for MC clients hosted by non-3GPP devices.
6) The solution MC client uses an own IP address which relies on framed
routing (clause 7.7.3) will be used to describe the mechanism for routing of
data and signalling by the MC gateway UE.
7) The solution MBMS Support for MC clients residing on non-3GPP devices
(clause 7.8) will be used to support MBMS bearers for MC clients residing on
non-3GPP devices without requiring any changes at the MC system side.
No dependencies to other 3GPP groups were identified in the overall evaluation
(clause 8) which are required for fulfilling the solutions listed above.
# Annex A (informative): Gateway UE requirements
The gateway requirements are captured in 3GPP TS 22.179 [2] clause 4.5.4 (see
clause A.1) and 3GPP TS 22.280 [3] clause 5.15 (see clause A.2).
## A.1 Shareable McPTT UEs and gateway UEs
The conceptual model for shareable McPTT UEs is that of a pool of UEs, each UE
being interchangeable with any other, and users randomly choosing one or more
UEs from the pool, each user for his temporary exclusive use. A shareable
MCPTT UE can be used by user who can gain access to the MCPTT client
application stored on it and can become an authenticated MCPTT User. A
shareable MCPTT UE can serve only one MCPTT User at a time. An MCPTT User who
signs into a shareable MCPTT UE that is already in-use causes the sign-off of
the previous MCPTT User.
An MCPTT User can simultaneously have several active McPTT UEs, which, from an
MCPTT Service point of view, are addressable individually and/or collectively
within the context of their association to the MCPTT User.
The conceptual model for a gateway UE is that of a UE capable of providing
service to an MCPTT User employing a non-3GPP device. A gateway UE is usable
simultaneously by multiple MCPTT Users. Unlike a shareable MCPTT UE, if a new
person enters his valid credentials towards signing in the MCPTT Service, his
successful signing in and becoming an MCPTT User does not affect the initial
MCPTT Users already served by the gateway UE.
A gateway UE is typically installed in a vehicle (e.g., a police car, fire
truck) and has wired and/or wireless connections to various devices in use by
the MCPTT Users.
A gateway UE differs functionally from a ProSe relay node. In the ProSe
paradigm, the relay node and the devices served by it are all (ProSe enabled)
3GPP UEs and are \"visible\" to the 3GPP system as UEs. In the gateway UE
paradigm, only the gateway UE is an 3GPP device and only it is \"visible\" at
the 3GPP network layer.
Figure A.1-1 shows schematically some of the relationships between MCPTT Users
and McPTT UEs.
Figure A.1-1: Relationships between MCPTT Users and McPTT UEs
## A.2 Gateway requirements
[R-5.15-001] The MCX Service system shall be accessible via gateway MCX UEs by
MCX Users.
[R-5.15-001a] The MCX Service system shall provide a mechanism to uniquely
identify a gateway MCX UE.
[R-5.15-002] Gateway MCX UEs shall ensure that the content of communications
between the MCX Service System and an MCX User attached to the gateway MCX UEs
is unaltered.
[R-5.15-003] Gateway MCX UEs shall handle the communication traffic
attributes, e.g. priority and QoS, of an MCX User attached to a gateway MCX UE
independently of other MCX Users concurrently attached to the same gateway MCX
UE.
[R-5.15-004] Multiple Gateway MCX UEs shall be able to operate within the same
area (e.g., site of an incident or accident, overlapping coverage, adjacent
cells, etc.).
[R-5.15-005] MCX Users shall be able to select gateway MCX UEs, in case
multiple, accessible gateway MCX UEs are available.
[R-5.15-006] An MCX User shall be able to access multiple gateway MCX UEs
simultaneously from a single device while restricting a MCX Service to one
gateway (e.g., MCPTT on gateway UE 1, MCData and MCVideo on gateway UE 2).
# Annex B (informative): Change history
* * *
**Change history**  
**Date** **Meeting** **Tdoc** **CR** **Rev** **Cat** **Subject/Comment** **New
version** 2020-05 SA6#37-e TR skeleton 0.0.0 2020-06 SA6#37-e S6-200655,
S6-200656, S6-200657 0.0.1 2020-08 SA6#38-e S6-201195, S6-201196, S6-201257,
S6-201198, S6-201199, S6-201200 0.1.0 2020-10 SA6#39-BIS-e S6-201738,
S6-201888, S6-201889, S6-201890, S6-202022 0.2.0 2020-11 SA6#40-e S6-202138,
S6-202236; S6-202237, S6-202238, S6-202239 0.3.0 2021-03 SA6#42-e S6-210401,
S6-210410, S6-210411, S6-210413, S6-210415, S6-210416, S6-210582, S6-210583,
S6-210584, S6-210585 0.4.0 2021-06 SA6#43-e S6-211184, S6-211185, S6-211186,
S6-211187, S6-211188, S6-211189, S6-211190, S6-211191, S6- 211222, S6- 211394,
S6-211413, S6-211414 0.5.0 2021-06 SA#92-e SP-210475 Presentation for
information at SA#92-e 1.0.0 2021-07 SA6#44-e S6-211596, S6-211598, S6-211621,
S6-211624, S6-211733, S6-211748, S6-211773, S6-211790 1.1.0