# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In drafting the TS/TR, pay particular attention to the use of modal auxiliary
verbs! TRs shall not contain any normative provisions.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies and evaluates the application architecture
aspects and solutions to address potential new and enhanced location
capabilities for vertical application enabler, including the following
aspects:
\- Enabling location performance (accuracy, availability and latency)
enhancements through combined use and fusion of 3GPP and non-3GPP location
technologies at the application layer;
\- Identification and classification of location related requirements
(including location QoS) for vertical application services;
\- Architecture enhancement leveraging 5G positioning and location services;
\- Enabling location sources and positioning methods selection based on the
requested location QoS;
\- Initialization and configuration for fused location service;
\- Enabling value-added location service capabilities exposure to vertical
applications;
\- Enhancements on SEAL location management addressing the aspects above.
NOTE: This study will not duplicate solutions already available in Core
Network and RAN.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for next generation new services
and markets; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.271: \"Functional stage 2 description of Location Services
(LCS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.273: \"5G System (5GS) Location Services (LCS); Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 38.305: \"Stage 2 functional specification of User Equipment (UE)
positioning in NG-RAN\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.104: \"Service requirements for cyber-physical control
applications in vertical domains; Stage 1\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.125: \"Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) support in 3GPP; Stage 1\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.071: \"Location Services (LCS); Service description; Stage 1\".
[10] Open Mobile Alliance, OMA AD SUPL: \"Secure User Plane Location
Architecture\", (http://www.openmobilealliance.org).
[11] Open Mobile Alliance, OMA AD MLS: \"Mobile Location Service
Architecture\", (http://www.openmobilealliance.org).
[12] 3GPP TS 23.502: \" Procedures for the 5G System (5GS); Stage 2\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.434: \"Service Enabler Architecture Layer for Verticals
(SEAL); Functional architecture and information flows\".
> [14] 3GPP TS 29.572: \"Location Management Services; Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in TS 22.261 [2] apply:
**5G enhanced positioning area:** see TS 22.261 [2].
**5G positioning service area:** see TS 22.261 [2].
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in TS 23.271 [3] apply:
**Current Location:** see TS 23.271 [3].
**LCS Server:** see TS 23.271 [3].
**Location Estimate:** see TS 23.271 [3].
**Velocity:** see TS 23.271 [3].
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in TS 23.273 [4] apply:
**LCS Client:** see TS 23.273 [4].
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in TS 23.501 [5] apply:
**5G Access Network:** see TS 23.501 [5].
**5G Core Network:** see TS 23.501 [5].
**5G System:** see TS 23.501 [5].
**NG-RAN:** see TS 23.501 [5].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
GMLC Gateway Mobile Location Centre
LCS LoCation Services
LDR Location Deferred Request
LMF Location Management Function
LPP LTE Positioning Protocol
MO-LR Mobile Originated Location Request
MT-LR Mobile Terminated Location Request
NI-LR Network Induced Location Request
SLP SUPL Location Platform
SUPL Secure User Plane Location
TNAN Trusted Non-3GPP Access Network
UNAN Untrusted Non-3GPP Access Network
# 4 Architectural assumptions and requirements
## 4.1 Architectural assumptions
For discussions of architecture aspects of application enablement in this
document, the following architectural assumptions apply:
\- The positioning methods include the standard positioning methods supported
for NG-RAN access as specified in clause 4.3 in 3GPP TS 38.305 [6], and the
positioning methods supported for non-3GPP access as specified in clause 5.3.1
in 3GPP TS 23.273 [4].
\- The source of location may include other standard location service
(non-3GPP location service of e.g. OMA) from the third party.
\- The PLMN operator must be able to protect user location data and privacy
when the application enablement architecture is within the PLMN operator
domain.
## 4.2 Architectural requirements
The following is the architectural requirements to support 5G-enabled fused
location service.
\- The application layer architecture should take the baseline location
management server specified in 3GPP TS 23.434[13] and the location resources
and positioning methods should not conflict with the existing one in TS
23.501[5] and 23.502[12].
\- The application layer architecture shall provide mechanisms to enable
location performance (accuracy, availability and latency) enhancements through
combined use and fusion of 3GPP and non-3GPP location technologies;
\- The application layer architecture shall enhance the SEAL location-related
architecture to provide more accurate UE location report. And enhance the LM-
UU interface to transfer the fused location information.
# 5 Key issues
## 5.1 Key issue #1: Architecture enhancement of application enablement for
location
The 3GPP TS 22.261 [2], 3GPP TS 22.104 [7], 3GPP TS 22.125 [8] have specified
high accuracy positioning requirements of 5G for the support of various
vertical applications. The major aspects of the study are the support of
fusion or combination of different location technologies and the value added
location capabilities at the application enabler, so that to enable the
enhanced performance and meeting the vertical\'s needs.
It should be studied whether and how the SEAL location-related architecture
enhancement or new architecture model is needed based on evaluations of
existing location management architectures, functional entities and
capabilities with following aspects:
\- Functional entit(ies) supporting the combined use and fusion of different
location technologies at the application layer;
\- Architecture enhancement addressing the consideration of flexibility,
scalability and reliability;
\- Support for high-accuracy positioning based on LCS and 5G network exposure;
\- Providing value-added location servicies to accommodate new service
requirements and the evolving application enablement capabilities;
\- Architecture aspects that make sure UE provided location is not spoofed;
\- Architecture aspects that comply with local, national, and regional
location privacy requirements;
\- Architecture aspects exploiting edge computing capabilities including
EDGEAPP and 5GC edge capabilities.
The MNO may deploy both LCS and SUPL due to deployment and cost considerations
while achieving consistent location performances. It is for further study:
\- The possible application layer architectural models to support both SUPL
and LCS.
\- The potential scenarios that LCS and SUPL location towards the same target
UE are received by application layer at the same time.
\- The architectural aspects to support selection or coordination between LCS
and SUPL at the application layer when both location services are supported.
## 5.2 Key issue #2: Support of LCS QoS
According to 3GPP TS 23.273 [4] and 3GPP TS 22.071 [9], the LCS QoS which is
characterised by LCS QoS Class, Accuracy and Response Time may be required by
the application (LCS client) for location requests. For certain LCS services
the LCS QoS Class is non-negotiable.
To support the LCS QoS the following aspects need to be studied:
\- How to support invocation of LCS service (as defined by SA2) with a
required LCS QoS, including how and when the LCS QoS attributes are specified
in an application scenario, and how to potentially use the LCS QoS attributes
differently for different vertical scenarios;
\- How to support the identification of an appropriate LCS QoS requirement
between all interested parties.;
\- How to potentially retrieve the continuity and consistency of LCS QoS for
the vertical applications;
\- How to potentially support the negotiation of required LCS QoS that is
application driven.
## 5.3 Key issue #3: Location service differentiation
Within the core network the LCS client has been categorized (as LCS client
type) such that the privacy check, potitioning methods schemes and other
procedures can be differentiated.
Within the application enabler layer there are also the dimensions to
distinguish location services so that the service handling (e.g. priority
information, service coverage, geographical area and other information used to
invoke LCS service, the selection of location source, etc.) is differentiated.
Also the location services distinguished based on use cases and regulation
need to be considered.
It is for further study:
\- The possible dimensions to distinguish location service in application
enabler layer and how to enable the location service differentiation.
## 5.4 Key issue #4: Void
## 5.5 Key issue #5: Initialization and configuration for fused location
service
The application enabler needs to consider how the location service based on
multiple or various location sources is initiated and configured.
This key issue aims to study:
\- How to initiate and start the fused location service for a target UE in
different scenarios, environment, network condition, type of service and etc.
\- How to initiate and start the fused location service such that the location
capabilities of target UE and the application layer location service can be
coordinated.
\- What configurations are needed for the initialization of fused location
service and how.
\- What application layer sessions are established for the fused location
service and how.
5.6 Key issue #6: Value-Added Location Services
How does the FLS/SEAL LMS get the UE location from 3GPP and non-3GPP defined
accesses are described in this TR, TS23.273 and TS23.434. A lot of value-added
location services provide location enhanced functions to the upper layer
consumer. Mobile internet and industrial application can use one or more
value-added location services. Different value-added location services may
require different architectures, interfaces, functions and procedures.
The following aspects can be addressed in the study:
\- Identify which value-added service is to be studied and provide the
functional description?
The following value-added location services can be studied, and more value-
added services can be further included and studied in the solution part (not
exhausted):
\- Location format mapping
\- Location Event Trigger provision, invoke, revoke
\- Periodic and or event Triggered location reporting
\- Real time location information Pushing
\- Geofencing
\- (Indoor) Map provision
\- Location Alerting
\- Real time Tracing request or playback (continuous locations in a map)
\- History Trace request or playback
\- Time information of the first entering and the last leaving an area (e.g.
working campus)
\- The length of time to stay in an area
\- The times to re-enter and re-leave an area
\- Location information analysis
\- Heatmap
\- Speed
\- Heading Direction
\- Identify whether the value-added service as listed above can be supported
based on the procedures defined for the SEAL LMS and FLS.
> NOTE: Existing location service may be enhanced if not fully supported.
# 6 Void
# 7 Solutions
## 7.0 Mapping of solutions to key issues
Table 7.0-1 Mapping of solutions to key issues
            KI \# 1   KI \# 2   KI \# 3   KI \# 4   KI \# 5   KI \# 6
* * *
Sol #1 **X**  
Sol #2 **X**  
Sol #3 **X**  
Sol #4 **X**  
Sol #5 **X**  
Sol #6 **X**  
Sol #7 **X**  
Sol #8 **X**
## 7.1 Solution #1: Standalone functional architecture for fused location
service
### 7.1.1 Solution description
This solution addresses key issue #1: Architecture enhancement of application
enablement for location.
#### 7.1.1.1 Functional architecture
The figure 7.1.1.1-1 identifies the architecture of fused location service
enabled by 5GS.
Figure 7.1.1.1-1: Functional architecture of fused location service
The architecture is composed of logical function modules that are not
necessarily physical entities and can reside in or co-locate with existing
application layer entities as appropriate.
In the architecture, the Fused Location Server (FLS) and Application Specific
Server can be within the MNO domain or third party service provider domain.
The FLS architecture supports multiple possible sources of location
information including:
\- AMF location service exposed by NEF (as defined in 3GPP TS 23.502 [12]);
\- LCS location retrieved from either NEF or GMLC (as defined in 3GPP TS
23.273 [4]);
\- SUPL location retrieved from SLP (as defined in OMA AD SUPL [10]);
NOTE: Whether and how the SUPL location service can be exposed by 5GC is
within the remit of SA2.
\- Certain RAT-independent positioning retrieved from 3^rd^ party location
server or Fused Location Client.
\- Retrieve the target UE Positioning via the FLS-1 interface.
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS to show the relationship of Fused Location Function
with SEAL-LM.
#### 7.1.1.2 Functional components and reference points
The Fused Location Server provides location information of the target UE based
on positioning or location data retrieved from one or multiple location
sources. The Fused Location Server can get the location information via the
non-3GPP defined access from the Fused Location Client and additionally can
get location information via the 3GPP access. The Fused Location Server
selects one or more access types, one or more location methods, and Control
Plane /User Plane (e.g. SUPL [10]) methods based on the requested location
QoS. The Fused Location Server provides a normalized description of location
data to the application-specific server (e.g. of ecosystem partners) through
the northbound API.
For the non-3GPP defined accesses, the FLS also needs to support the five
types of interaction with the Fused Location Client to retrieve the location
information via the non-3GPP defined accesses:
\- Get the UE location information;
\- Provide location notification to the FLC in the target UE and get a
guarantee to get location information from the target UE;
\- Install location event triggers in the FLC in the target UE to support the
target UE terminated deferred location information;
The 3^rd^ Party Location Server provides the location of a certain location
technology (typically the network-based positioning) e.g. Bluetooth.
The Fused Location Client represents the client of the target UE providing the
UE-based positioning via the non-3GPP defined access and location-related
information and provides the UE location information via the non-3GPP defined
access to the Fused Location Server via an IP connection.
NOTE 1: How does the Fused Location Client get the UE location information via
the non-3GPP defined access is out of scope of 3GPP.
The NEF (as defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [5]) exposes location service of 5GC
when Fused Location Server is external to MNO domain.
The GMLC (as defined in 3GPP TS 23.273 [4]) provides LCS when Fused Location
Server is within the MNO domain.
The SLP (as defined in OMA AD SUPL [10]) provides location of SUPL network.
The interfaces are described as followed:
**FLS-1:** Reference point supporting location reporting, location
determination, location management and exchange of location contextual
information (e.g. UE ID, location capabilities of the non-3GPP defined access,
the available non-3GPP defined accesses ) over application layer transactions
between the Fused Location Server and the Fused Location Client of the target
UE. The FLS-1 may support HTTP or WebSocket and the IP connection between the
Fused Location Client and Fused Location Server
NOTE 2: The IP connection between the Fused Location Client and Fused Location
Server can be provided by the 5GS PDU Session.
**FLS** -**2:** Service-based interface exposing fused location data to the
applications (e.g. the vertical applications, the applications of ecosystem
partners, etc.). The FLS-2 may support HTTP or WebSocket.
**FLS-3: R** eference point between the FLS and a database for storing and
retrieving location information for the target UE and user profile for the
target UE.
NOTE 3: The definition of FLS-3 is out of scope of this specification.
**FLS** -**4:** The reference point is used for location retrieval of the
target UE from that 3^rd^ party location server. The FLS-X can be a service-
based interface. The FLS-4 may support HTTP or WebSocket.
NOTE 4: The definition of FLS-4 is out of scope of this specification.
**Nnef:** Service-based interface as defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [5].
**Le:** Reference point as defined in OMA AD MLS [11].
**LM-UU:** Reference point as defined in 3GPP TS 23.434 [13].
**LM-S:** Reference point as defined in 3GPP TS 23.434 [13].
NOTE 5: If the UE supports MUSIM, the FLS can get the UE location information
from the PLMNs via the LM-S reference of each PLMN.
#### 7.1.1.3 Merged Architecture to support interaction between FLS and SEAL
LMS
FLS fuses different location information from multiple resources and provides
a better location service/information to the Application Server via its
northbound API. And the SEAL LMS can be one of its location sources as
described in figure 7.1.1.3-1.
The SEAL LMS does not support getting location information from the non-3GPP
defined access, the FLS needs to have the interface FLS-1 to get location
information from the non-3GPP defined access.
The FLS needs to get the location information from other PLMNs if the target
UE is with multiple PLMN accesses, in such cased, the FLS-1 and or the LM-S
reference point is to provide such location information from different PLMNs.
The FLS-3 reference point is defined for storing and retrieving location
information for the target UE and user profile for the target UE.
Figure 7.1.1.3: Merged architecture with Interaction between Fused Location
Server and SEAL LMS
### 7.1.2 Solution evaluation
The merged architecture defined in figure 7.1.1.3-1 is the architecture to
merge the Fused Location Server.
Based on the merged architecture, the SEAL LMS needs to upgrade to support Le
interface.
SEAL LMS only gets the location information for the target UE via the 3GPP
defined accesses and provides the location information to the FLS via the LM-S
interface, additionally, the FLS gets the location information via the
non-3GPP defined accesses from the FLS-1 reference point.
## 7.2 Solution #2: Support of both LCS and SUPL at Fused Location Function
### 7.2.1 Solution description
This solution addresses key issue #1 in respect of application layer support
of both LCS and SUPL.
#### 7.2.1.1 Architectural models
According to OMA AD SUPL [10], Secure User Plane Location (SUPL) is an Enabler
which utilizes existing standards where available and possible, to transfer
assistance data and positioning data over a User Plane bearer, such as IP, to
aid network and SUPL Enabled Terminal (SET) based positioning technologies in
the calculation of a SET\'s position.
When MNO deploys both LCS and SUPL, the 3GPP TS 23.271 [3] defines the
operation of SUPL in EPC, in which the location of SUPL can be retrived from
GMLC. The potential interworking of control plane LCS and OMA SUPL both
deployed by an MNO is outside the scope of that specification. For 5G LCS the
support for SUPL is not defined in 3GPP TS 23.273 [4]. The 3GPP TS 38.305 [6]
Annex A (informative) provides an architecture for interworking between LCS
and OMA SUPL, in which the location of SUPL is directly exposed from SLP
without the involvement of core network entities.
Considering the existing specifications regarding architecture aspects of
SUPL, the potential architectural models of application layer consisting the
location source of LCS and SUPL are shown in below figure .
Figure 7.2.1.1-1: Possible Fused Location Function architectural models
consisting location source of LCS and SUPL
The potential architectural models include:
a) LCS and SUPL locations are exposed by 5GC (from GMLC) through the same
interface (Le) to the LCS client which is within the MNO domain.
b) LCS and SUPL locations are exposed by 5GC (from GMLC) and OMA SLP
separately, the LCS client and SUPL agent are within the MNO domain.
NOTE: The SLP can belong to the operators\' management and also can under the
3rd party location server\'s control. The LMS retrieves SUPL from SLP within
the 3rd party location server via LM-3P reference point if the SLP belongs to
the 3rd party location server.
c) LCS and SUPL locations are exposed by 5GC (from NEF) and OMA SLP separately
to the AF and SUPL agent that are external to the MNO domain.
### 7.2.2 Solution evaluation
This solution is based on the architecture in solution 8 of KI#1 and defines
how to fuse the location information from different sources via different
interfaces and the possible architecture models.
## 7.3 Solution #3: Functional architecture for fused location service
leveraging SEAL location management
### 7.3.1 Solution description
This solution leverages SEAL to address key issue #1: Architecture enhancement
of application enablement for location.
#### 7.3.1.1 Functional architecture
The figure 7.3.1.1-1 identifies the architecture of fused location service
enabled by 5GS leveraging SEAL.
Figure 7.3.1.1-1: Functional architecture of fused location service leveraging
SEAL location management
Editor\'s note: Representing LMC offering service (e.g. clause 9.3.4 in
23.434) to LMS is FFS.
Editor\'s note: How to prevent the loop communication between the FLF and LMS
when Application Specific Server is consuming their services is FFS
In the architecture, the SEAL Location management server (LMS) interacts with
the Fused location function for fusion of different location technologies.
The architecture supports multiple sources of location information including:
\- Location of AMF service exposed by NEF (as defined in 3GPP TS 23.502 [12]);
\- LCS location retrieved from either NEF or GMLC (as defined in 3GPP TS
23.273 [4]);
\- SUPL location retrieved from SLP (as defined in OMA AD SUPL [10]);
\- Location retrieved from 3^rd^ party location server or location management
client.
#### 7.3.1.2 Functional components and reference points
The Location management server provides location information of the target UE
based on positioning or location data retrived from one or multiple location
sources.
Fused location function provides normalized description of location data to
the Location management server through the API.
The 3^rd^ Party Location Server provides the location of a certain location
technology (typically the network-based positioning) e.g. Bluetooth.
The Location management client represents the client of the requestor/sender
UE for location reporting as defined in 3GPP TS 23.434 [13].
The Fused location client represents the client of the sender UE for location
reporting via non-3GPP access over FLS-X1 interface.
The location management server is a functional entity that receives and stores
user location information and provides user location information to the
vertical application server as defined in 3GPP TS 23.434 [13]. The location
management server acquires location information from one or more sources
including:
\- the NEF (as defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [5] and 3GPP TS 23.273 [4]) via N33
reference point;
\- the GMLC (as defined in 3GPP TS 23.273 [4]) via Le reference point;
\- the SLP (as defined in OMA AD SUPL [10]) of SUPL network;
\- the Fused location function; and
\- the location management client.
The VAL client and VAL server (vertical application layer entities) are as
defined in 3GPP TS 23.434 [13].
The interfaces are described as followed:
**LM-UU:** Reference point as defined in 3GPP TS 23.434 [13].
**LM-S:** Reference point as defined in 3GPP TS 23.434 [13].
**FLS** -**X2:** The reference point is used for location retrieval of the
target UE from 3^rd^ party location server.
NOTE: The definition of FLS-X2 is out of scope of this specification.
**N33:** Service-based interface as defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [5].
**Le:** Reference point as defined in OMA AD MLS [11].
**FLS-S:** Reference point used for fused location retrieval from Fused
location function either by VAL Server or by Location management server.
Editor\'s note: Impacts of architectural changes to existing SEAL LM
procedures in 3GPP TS 23.434 [13] are FFS.
Editor\'s note: The enhancements to location management client, LM-UU and LM-S
providing fused location service are FFS.
#### 7.3.1.3 Deployment models
In deployments where Fused Location Function resides outside of SEAL LMS is
shown by Figure 7.3.1.1-1. In another deployment the Fused Location Function
can be collocated within SEAL LMS. Such function model is as shown in Figure
7.3.1.3-1.
NOTE: This deployment option could be considered as the functional
architecture diagram for 5GFLS during normative specification.
Figure 7.3.1.3-1: Functional architecture of fused location service collacted
within SEAL location management
Editor\'s note: Moving deployment model to another clause is FFS
### 7.3.2 Solution evaluation
Editor\'s Note: This clause provides an evaluation of the solution. The
evaluation should include the descriptions of the impacts to existing
architectures.
## 7.4 Solution #4: Location service registration
### 7.4.1 Solution description
This solution addresses key issue #5: Initialization and configuration for
fused location service.
The procedure for location service registration is illustrated in figure
7.4.1-1. This procedure is based on the fused location architecture of KI#1.
The purpose of this procedure is for the Location Management Client (LMC) to
register to the location services available at the Fused Location Function
(FLF) which is part of Location Management Server (LMS) while ensuring the
privacy of the user.
If the Multi-USIM is supported by the LMC, the LMC performs the registration
procedure for each PLMN of the Multi-USIM PLMNs.
Figure 7.4.1-1: Location service registration procedure
1\. The LMC of a target UE sends location service registration request to the
FLF which is part of LMS via the LM-UU interface over non-3GPP access,
carrying the identifier of the UE (e.g. GPSI, UUID, etc.) and non-3GPP defined
access location capabilities(e.g. the available non-3GPP defined access types,
the location methods, the location accuracy and latency of the non-3GPP
defined access types).
NOTE: The LMC does not directly communicate with the FLF but communicate with
LMS directly, and LMS will coordinate with FLF internally after receiving LMC
requests.
To access the FLF via the LM-UU interface over non-3GPP access, the LMC can
use any available non-3GPP defined accesses to send the location service
registration request.
The LMS with FLF can be pre-configured in the UE or be discovered via the DNS
query.
2\. The FLF checks authorization for the UE\'s request. If the FLF supports
privacy checking it also performs or assists with e.g. 5GC on privacy check.
3\. The FLF, upon successful authorization and privacy check (if any),
responds to the LMC with registration result and stores the UE identifier
information and non-3GPP defined access location capabilities into the UE
location context.
If the Multi-USIM is supported by the LMC, the LMC performs steps 1 to 3 to
register its identifier (e.g. MSISDN) associated with each PLMN of the Multi-
USIM PLMNs.
### 7.4.2 Solution evaluation
This solution is based on the new architecture proposed in KI#1. The location
management client can provide its UE IDs and the location capabilities of the
available non-3GPP defined accesses to the fused location function which is
part of location management server through LM-UU interface over non-3GPP
access, and the fused location function can generate and store this
information as the UE location context, and also can use these UE location
contexts in the subsequent location procedures.
## 7.5 Solution #5: Location profiling for supporting fused location service
enablement
### 7.5.1 Solution description
#### 7.5.1.1 General
This solution addresses key issue #3 Location service differentiation. The
solution discusses the creation of Location profiles at a fused location
service at the application enablement layer; and the mapping of Location
profiles to one or more vertical applications. Such profiling is based on a
variety of factors which correspond to use-case / vertical driven hybrid
positioning requirements and policies. This notion of profiling (which is
different from the service profile) is based on the various factors which may
affect the positioning methods and QoS, and fixes also the communication
parameters per vertical requirement-use case, without providing any additional
information at the 3rd party app. The attributes that can be used for the
Location profile can be some of the following (however how the Location
profiles are constructed can be up to implementation):
\- the vertical / application service type;
\- the environment (indoor/outdoor, urban/suburban,);
\- the QoS requirements, e.g. accuracy;
\- the capabilities of the UEs involved;
\- the energy constraints for the devices;
\- preference on certain positioning methods, e.g. RAT-dependent or RAT-
independent methods;
\- LCS service level (in case of IIOT vertical);
\- priorities of location methods;
\- whether location augmentation is required;
\- whether location prediction is required;
\- whether sidelink positioning assistance is required;
\- whether proximity-based location estimate is required;
\- whether location verification is required.
An example Location profile can be shown in Table 7.5.1.1-1 below.
Table 7.5.1.1-1: Exemplary location profile attributes
Profile ID / name Vertical / use case, environment Positioning Service Level
(for IIOT) / QoS / accuracy Positioning Method(s) / Priorities Involved 3GPP
functionalities / Priorities Involved non-3gpp access networks Required APIs /
API info Other
* * *
**Location profile #1** Industrial scenario, indoors, mobile robots/ AGVs
Service Level 6 / cm level accuracy / absolute/relative/ both 1. DL-TDOA, 2.
UL-TDOA, 3. Multi-RTT methods, 4. WLAN, 5. motion sensors, 6. Bluetooth 1.
LMF, 2. RAN-LMC, 3. SEAL LMS, .. 1. WLAN ID,... NEF APIs, SEAL APIs, ..
Verification / augmentation required **Location profile #2** V2X, outdoor, ..
Decimeter level accuracy /... absolute/relative/both 1. DL-TDOA, 2. Multi-RTT
methods, 3. GNSS-RTK, 4. Sensor fusion, 5. A-GPS 1. LMF, 2. SEAL LMS, 3. Other
UEs 2. GNSS #x, #y, 4. MEC #x NEF APIs, MEC APIs, .. Support for sidelink
positioning
Without this solution, app server needs to consolidate all measurements and
interact with different systems to get the required location. The profiling
helps the optimization of the process based on the environment, UE context,
etc., per profile checking/monitoring. Also, the configuration of combined
positioning methods to meet the LCS requirements, done with minimum exposure
to the 3^rd^ party/customer.
#### 7.5.1.2 Procedure
The procedure includes the translation of the vertical request to a Location
profile and the procedures with the involved entities to derive the requested
location report. The fused location function/client may also fetch location
reports in an iterative manner based on method priorities, to ensure that the
vertical requirement is met, with the minimum signaling/complexity.
Figure 7.5.1.2-1 illustrates **a solution for the location profiling for
supporting fused location exposure.**
Pre-conditions:
1\. The VAL server has registered to receive fused location function services.
Figure 7.5.1.2-1: Location profiling for fused location derivation and
exposure
1\. The Fused Location Function(FLF) which is part of the Location Management
Server(LMS) configures a set of location service profiles, where each location
service profile includes metrics like the positioning method, QoS parameters,
location service producers involved, environment/ area type, etc.
NOTE 1: How the profiling attributes are selected/configured is up to
implementation.
2\. The LMS receives a location request from a fused location service consumer
(VAL server), where this request may include a VAL server ID, location QoS
requirements (accuracy, response time,..), location granularity (coordinates,
cell-level, civic addresses, topological location), vertical specific support
information (planned route, road maps,...), time validity for the requirement,
area of validity, event triggering criteria (under which criteria the location
report needs to be sent), etc.
3\. The fused location enabler function within the LMS determines a mapping of
the fused location service consumer (VAL server) to a location service profile
based on the location request and the information provided within the request.
4\. The FLF within the LMS informs to the Location Management Client (LMC)
optionally the involved 3gpp functions and the configuration of the mapping of
the application to a Location profile. This may include the report
configuration per Location profile (thresholds for event triggering,
periodicity of reporting, format of reporting, minimum time between
consecutive reports) as well as the priority of positioning methods and
location report granularity (coordinates, cell-level, civic addresses,
topological location).
NOTE 2: The FLF does not directly communicate with the LMC but through the
LMS, and the LMS will coordinate with FLF internally when received LMC
requests
5a. The FLF within the LMS requests from the LMC a local fused location
estimate of the target VAL UE or for the UEs within the application in close
vicinity.
5b. The LMC responds to the FLF a local fused location estimate based on the
request.
6\. The FLF within the LMS performs a location request to one or more of the
following (based on the Location profile):
\- to GMLC directly or via NEF (see TS 23.273), acting as AF. The LCS service
request is sent to GMLC or AMF, via NEF using the service-based interface or
CAPIF API; or directly to GMLC if allowed to (e.g. fused location function is
within the MNO trust domain).
\- to 3^rd^ party location servers as described in KI#1.
7\. The FLF within the LMS calculates the fused location estimated based on
combining location reports from previous steps, and may also perform
additional processing e.g. for location augmentation, and verification based
on the Location profile. Then, it checks whether the estimate fulfills the
Location profile requirement (based on QoS parameters such as accuracy,
response time).
8-9. If the requirement is not fulfilled, the FLF within the LMS iteratively
requests further location information and re-checks whether the requirement is
met or not.
10\. The LMS sends the fused location report to the VAL server.
### 7.5.2 Solution evaluation
This solution is based on the architecture proposed in solution 8 of KI#1 and
discusses the creation of location profiles at FLF within the LMS, and the
mapping of location profiles to one or more vertical applications.The Fused
Location Function (FLF) which is part of the Location Management Server(LMS)
could enable the translation/mapping of the vertical request to a location
profile, derive the requested location report, and then fetch the
aggregated/fused location data from more data sources (such as GMLC, 3^rd^
party location servers, and etc.) in an iterative manner to ensure that the
vertical requirement is met and send the final fused location report to the
VAL server at last.
## 7.6 Solution #6: Location service configuration
### 7.6.1 Solution description
This solution addresses key issue #5: Initialization and configuration for
fused location service.
#### 7.6.1.1 Service flow for fused location service configuration
The high-level service flow for fused location service configuration is
illustrated in figure 7.6.1.1-1. This service flow is based on the fused
location architecture of KI#1.
Figure 7.6.1.1-1: Service flow for fused location service configuration
1\. The location service is initiated at the Fused Location Function(FLF)
within Location Management Server(LMS). This can be triggered by an
application through e.g. a service request or triggered by an event, by which
the location service requirements for a target UE are identified.
2\. The LMS enhanced with FLF may query the location capability of the target
UE, e.g. the location system or location service, or location methods
supported by the UE. The FLF may need to decide the location source from which
to receive location information based on the location service requirements as
well as the target UE\'s location capability.
The LMS enhanced with FLF may configure location report parameters (such as
thresholds for event triggering, periodicity of reporting, format of
reporting, minimum time between consecutive reports, etc.) and send to the
location management client of the target UE.
3a. The LMS enhanced with FLF may invoke the LCS service e.g. 5GC-MT-LR
Procedure (as defined in 3GPP TS 23.273 [4]) including location report
configuration by acting as AF or LCS client.
3b. The LMS enhanced with FLF may invoke the SUPL service from the 3^rd^ party
location server ,e.g. network initiated flows (as defined in OMA AD SUPL [10])
including location report configuration by acting as the SUPL agent.
> NOTE: The interaction between LMS and OMA is up to the implementation and
> out of 3GPP scope.
3c. If the LMS enhanced with FLF decides to receive location from the 3^rd^
party location system, the LMS enhanced with FLF configures the location
service with the 3^rd^ party location server to establish the secured data
connection and session for location reports, and to support the location
system configuration tailored for the location service requirements.
3d. The LMS enhanced with FLF interacts with the location management client of
the target UE to provide the location service configurations including
information about the fused location configuration.
### 7.6.2 Solution evaluation
This solution is based on the architecture proposed in solution 8 of KI#1. The
Fused Location Function (FLF) which is part of Location Management Server
(LMS) can acquire different location information from multiple resources. For
example, from 3GPP access (LCS location retrieved from either NEF or GMLC,
etc.), non-3GPP access (target UE location retrieved via LM-UU), or the 3rd
party location server (SUPL location retrieved from SLP, etc.) to provide an
accurate UE location. Besides, the FLF used as an additional source of the LMS
can configure the location service with the 3rd party location server and
communicate with the location management client of the target UE to provide
the location service configurations.
## 7.7 Solution #7: Location QoS based location sources and positioning
methods selection
### 7.7.1 Solution description
This solution addresses key issue #2: Support of LCS QoS.
The Fused Location Function firstly needs to produce the fused location data
from multiple sources based on the requested location QoS (e.g. the
requirements of the positioning accuracy, reliability and latency). Based on
the requested location QoS, the FLF needs to select one or more access types,
one or more location methods (as described in TS 29.572 [14] ) and related
CP/UP(SUPL) methods based on the requested location QoS (not exhausted):
\- 2G/3G/4G/5G/NR satellite access
\- Non-3GPP access connected to 5GC
\- GNSS (e.g. GPS, Galilieo, BeiDou etc.)
\- Barometric Pressure
\- WLAN
\- Bluetooth
\- Terrestrial Beacon System (TBS) positioning based on MBS signals
\- Motion Sensor
\- RFID
\- Radio finger-print
\- Cell ID
\- ECID
\- OTDOA
\- DL_TDOA
\- DL_AOD
\- Multi-RTT
\- NR_ECID
\- UL_TDOA
\- UL_AOA
\- Ultra Wide Band (UWB)
\- Fingerprint
#### 7.7.1.1 Procedure of location QoS based location sources and positioning
methods selection
Figure 7.7.1.1-1: location sources and positioning methods selection
1\. The application-specific server sends a location request to the Location
Management Server(LMS) enhanced with Fused Location Function(FLF) to request
the location information of the target Location Management Client(LMC) (e.g.
UE Identity, location QoS, etc). The location QoS can include the location
accuracy, reliability and latency,etc. as described in clause 4.1b of
TS23.273[4].
2\. The LMS enhanced with FLF queries the UE location context (e.g. in the
internal database) with the location QoS to retrieve the available access
type, positioning methods as described in TS 29.572 [14] for the targetLMC.
3\. The LMS enhanced with FLF selects the available access type (i.e.
different location sources) and positioning methods to get the UE location
information from these available access types.
NOTE: The FLF does not directly communicate with the LMC but through the LMS,
and the LMS will coordinate with FLF internally when received LMC requests.
4\. The LMS enhanced with FLF fuses the UE location information from different
sources to get a fused UE location that meets the location QoS requirements.
5\. The LMS enhanced with FLF provides the fused UE location that meets the
location QoS requirements to the application-specific server.
### 7.7.2 Solution evaluation
This solution is based on the architecture proposed in Solution 8 of KI#1.
Compared to existing On-demand usage of location information in SEAL LM (TS
23.434[13], clause 9.3.9), the FLF which is part of LMS can aggregate/fuse
location data from more data sources so that more accurate location can be
reported. Different location source can provide location information with
different location QoS, the FLF takes the different advantages of these
different location sources and decides to select which location sources based
on the required location QoS and fuses the location information from the
selected location sources to produce the final location information to meet
the location QoS.
## 7.8 Solution #8: Architecture for fused location service
### 7.8.1 Solution description
This solution addresses key issue #1: Architecture enhancement of application
enablement for location.
#### 7.8.1.1 Functional architecture
Figure 7.8.1.1-1 identifies the architecture of fused location service.
Figure 7.8.1.1-1: Functional architecture of fused location service
The architecture is composed of logical function modules that are not
necessarily physical entities and can reside in or co-locate with existing
application layer entities as appropriate.
In the architecture, the Fused Location Function (FLF) is part of the Location
Management Server (LMS), and the LMS and Application Specific Server can be
within the MNO domain or third-party service provider domain.
The FLF fuses different location information from multiple resources and
provides a better location service/information to the Application Specific
Server via the LMS northbound API.
The FLF supports multiple possible sources of location information including:
\- LCS location retrieved from SEAL LMS internally as defined in 3GPP TS
23.434 [13];
\- Retrieve the target UE positioning from 3^rd^ party location server, e.g.
the SLP (as defined in OMA AD SUPL [10]) of SUPL network;
\- Retrieve the target UE Positioning via the LM-UU interface over non-3GPP
access.
\- Retrieve target UE location information via the LM-UU interface relating to
a UE\'s other PLMN connection(s), if supported by the UE.
#### 7.8.1.2 Functional components and reference points
The FLF provides location information of the target UE based on positioning or
location data retrieved from one or multiple location sources. The FLFcan get
the location information from the target UE, the SEAL LMS and the 3^rd^ party
location server. The FLFselects one or more location sources and one or more
location methods based on the requested location QoS. The FLFprovides a
normalized description of location data to the application-specific server
(e.g. of ecosystem partners) through the northbound API LM-S.
The Location Management Client(LMC) is the SEAL Location Management Client as
defined in 3GPP TS 23.434 [13] enhanced with new functions which could-
represent the client of the target UE providing the UE-based positioning and
location-related information (e.g. the WiFi SSID list for WiFi SSID
fingerprint based UE positioning) and providing the UE location information to
the FLF within the LMSvia an IP connection through LM-UU interface over
non-3GPP access.
NOTE 1: How does the LMC get its UE location related information is out of the
scope of 3GPP.
The LMS is the SEAL Location Management Server enhanced with FLF. The SEAL
Location Management Server is a functional entity that receives and stores
user location information and provides user location information as defined in
3GPP TS 23.434 [13]. The LMS acquires location information from one or more
sources including:
\- the NEF (as defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [5] and 3GPP TS 23.273 [4]) via N33
reference point;
\- the GMLC (as defined in 3GPP TS 23.273 [4]) via Le reference point which is
not defined in 3GPP TS 23.434[13];
\- the SEAL location management client as defined in 3GPP TS 23.434[13].
The 3^rd^ Party Location Server provides the location of certain location
technology (typically the network-based positioning).
The interfaces are described as following:
**LM-UU:** Reference point as defined in 3GPP TS 23.434 [13]. The Reference
point is enhanced to support location reporting, location determination,
location management, and exchange of location contextual information (e.g. UE
ID, location capabilities of the target UE, the available positioning methods
supported by the target UE, such as the WiFi SSID list for WiFi SSID
fingerprint based UE positioning) between the FLF of the LMS and the LMC of
the target UE.
**LM-3P:** The reference point is used for location retrieval of the target UE
from that 3^rd^ party location server. The LM-3P can be a service-based
interface that may support HTTP or WebSocket.
NOTE 2: The LM-3P is assumed to be based on the well defined protocols in
location related services and the definition of LM-3P is out of scope of this
specification.
**Nnef/N33:** Service-based interface as defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [5].
**Le:** Reference point as defined in 3GPP TS23.271 [3].
**LM-S:** Reference point as defined in 3GPP TS 23.434 [13].
### 7.8.2 Solution evaluation
With this architecture, the FLF can fuse additional UE location sources to
determine a better UE location. The FLF can retrieve UE location from the LMC
via LM-UU interface over non-3GPP access and the 3^rd^ party server via LM-3P
interface. However, how the FLF gets or retrieves the UE location from the
3^rd^ party is out of scope of 3GPP. The FLF can be used as an additional
source for location information to enhance the LMS.
In this architecture, the SEAL LMS is enhanced with FLF and supports the
enhanced LM-UU interface over non-3GPP access, and LM-3P interface. The LM-3P
interface is out of scope of 3GPP. The LMC is enhanced to provide UE location
information to FLF via LM-UU interface over non-3GPP access.
# 8 Overall evaluation
## 8.1 General
The following clauses contain an overall evaluation of the solutions presented
in this technical report, including their applicability to the identified key
issues and possible dependencies to other groups.
## 8.2 Architecture enhancements
The solution #1 proposes a standalone functional architecture for fused
location service, including the functional architecture, functional
components, reference points and the merged architecture to support
interaction between FLS and SEAL LMS.
The solution #8 proposes an enhanced architecture for application enablement
for location, including the fused functional architecture, functional
components and reference points, etc.
## 8.3 Solution evaluations
### 8.3.1 General
All the key issues and solutions specified in this technical report are listed
in Table 8.3.1-1. This table includes the mapping of the key issues to the
solutions, and possible dependencies to other groups.
Table 8.3.1-1 Key issues and solutions
Key issues Solution Dependency on other working groups
* * *
Key issue #1: Architecture enhancement of application enablement for location
Solution #1: Standalone functional architecture for fused location service -
Solution #2: Support of both LCS and SUPL at Fused Location Function -
Solution #3: Functional architecture for fused location service leveraging
SEAL location management - Solution #8: Architecture for fused location
service - Key issue #2: Support of LCS QoS Solution #7: Location QoS based
location sources and positioning methods selection - Key issue #3: Location
service differentiation Solution #5: Location profiling for supporting fused
location service enablement - Key issue #4: Void - Key issue #5:
Initialization and configuration for fused location service Solution #4:
Location service registration - Solution #6: Location service configuration -
Key issue #6: Value-Added Location Services -
### 8.3.2 Overall evaluation of key issue#1
The KI#1 mainly studies whether and how the SEAL location-related architecture
enhancement or new architecture model is needed based on evaluations of
existing location management architectures, functional entities, and
capabilities with the following aspects:
\- Functional entity(ies) supporting the combined use and fusion of different
location technologies at the application layer;
\- Architecture enhancement addressing the consideration of flexibility,
scalability, and reliability;
\- Support for high-accuracy positioning based on LCS and 5G network exposure;
\- Architecture aspects that make sure UE provided the location is not
spoofed;
\- Architecture aspects that comply with local, national, and regional
location privacy requirements.
To address the open issues aforementioned, there are four solutions proposed
as follows:
Solution #1 introduces a new Fused Location Server(FLS) which supports
multiple possible sources of location information and proposes a merged
architecture to support interaction between FLS and SEAL LMS. The solution
indicated FLS is the primary contact for location information queries. The
SEAL LMS only gets the location information for the target UE via the 3GPP
defined accesses and provides the location information to the FLS.
Additionally, the FLS gets the location information via the non-3GPP defined
accesses. Based on the merged architecture, the SEAL LMS needs to upgrade to
support Le interface. And this solution add the complexity for location
information queries and has no benefit compared to Solution#8.
Solution #2 defines in different deployment how to fuse the location
information from different sources via different interfaces and the possible
architecture models based on the same architecture in Solution#8.
Solution #3 proposes a functional architecture of fused location service
leveraging SEAL location management. In the architecture, the SEAL Location
Management Server (LMS) interacts with the Fused Location Function (FLF) for a
fusion of different location technologies. And the FLF can be deployed to
reside outside of SEAL LMS or to be within SEAL LMS. However, this solution is
incomplete(including 6 Editor's Notes) and does not clarify how loop
communication between LMS and FLF can be prevented.
Solution #8 proposes an enhanced architecture for SEAL LMS. In this
architecture, the SEAL LMS is enhanced with FLF, which is part of the LMS, and
supports the enhanced LM-UU interface over non-3GPP access, and the LM-3P
interface to interact with 3^rd^ party location server. The LM-3P interface is
out of the scope of 3GPP.
Based on the agreement, achitecture enhancements from solution #8 can be used
for the baseline architecture in the normative phase, and the feature
interaction between Location Management Client and Location Management Server
will be addressed in normative work. And solution 2 will act as supplement for
the the baseline architecture.
### 8.3.3 Overall evaluation of key issue#2
The KI#2 mainly studies the following open issues:
\- How to support invocation of LCS service (as defined by SA2) with a
required LCS QoS, including how and when the LCS QoS attributes are specified
in an application scenario, and how to potentially use the LCS QoS attributes
differently for different vertical scenarios;
\- How to support the identification of an appropriate LCS QoS requirement
between all interested parties.;
\- How to potentially retrieve the continuity and consistency of LCS QoS for
the vertical applications;
\- How to potentially support the negotiation of required LCS QoS that is
application driven.
Solution #7 addresses KI#2 and is based on the architecture proposed in
Solution#8. In Solution#7, as different location sources can provide different
location information with different location QoS, the Fused Location Function
(FLF) takes the advantages of these different location sources and decides to
select which location sources based on the required location QoS and fuses the
location information from the selected location sources to generate the final
location information to meet the requested location QoS.
Solution #7 can be considered in the normative work.The feature interaction
between Location Management Server and VAL server, and detailed APIs and
information flows can be discussed/addressed in the normative phase.
### 8.3.4 Overall evaluation of key issue#3
The open issue for KI#3 includes:
\- The possible dimensions to distinguish location service in the application
enabler layer and how to enable the location service differentiation.
Solution #5 addresses KI#3 and introduces the creation of location profiles at
a fused location service at the application enablement layer and the mapping
of location profiles to one or more vertical applications. In Solution#5, the
Fused Location Function (FLF) which is part of the Location Management
Server(LMS) could enable the translation/mapping of the vertical request to a
location profile, derive the requested location report, and then fetch the
aggregated/fused location data from more data sources in an iterative manner
to ensure that the vertical requirement is met and send the final fused
location report to the VAL server at last.
Solution #5 can be considered in the normative work, the detailed list of
location profiles, APIs and information flows can be discussed in the
normative phase.
### 8.3.5 Overall evaluation of key issue#4
Void
### 8.3.6 Overall evaluation of key issue#5
The open issue for KI#5 includes:
\- How to initiate and start the fused location service for a target UE in
different scenarios, environments, network conditions, types of service, etc.
\- How to initiate and start the fused location service such that the location
capabilities of target UE and the application layer location service can be
coordinated.
\- What configurations are needed for the initialization of fused location
service and how.
\- What application layer sessions are established for the fused location
service and how.
There are two solutions that address the above open issues for KI#5.
Solution #4 defines the procedure for fused location service registration from
Location Management Client (LMC) to Location Management Server (LMS). The LMC
can provide its UE IDs and the location capabilities of the available non-3GPP
defined accesses to the Fused Location Function (FLF) which is part of LMS
through the LM-UU interface over non-3GPP access, and the FLF can generate and
store this information as the UE location context, and also can use these UE
location contexts in the service flow (such as the one depicted in Figure
7.6.1.1-1) for fused location service.
Solution #6 describes the high-level service flow for fused location service
configuration. The location service is initiated at the LMS and triggered by
an application. The FLF in the LMS may query the location management client of
the target UE, and invoke the location service and/or SUPL service with 5GC,
and/or the 3^rd^ party location server, etc.
Solution #4 covers open issues#1 and #2 of KI#3, and Solution#6 covers open
issues#3 and #4 of KI#3. Both solutions can be considered in the normative
work. The feature interaction between Location Management Client and Location
Management Server for Sol#4 and the feature interaction between Location
Management Server and VAL server for Sol#6, the detailed APIs and information
flows can be discussed/addressed in the normative phase.
### 8.3.7 Overall evaluation of key issue#6
There is no solution for KI#6. However, the importance and necessity of KI#6
have been recognized and documented. As the amount of addressed
aspects/features for valued-added location service (such as Location Event
Trigger provision, invoke, revoke; Real time location information Pushing;
Location Alerting and so on) is huge, the study time for KI#6 in Rel18 is
limited, and its realization is independent of the current architecture, the
KI#6 is proposed to be investigated in future release.
# 9 Conclusions
## 9.1 General conclusions
This technical report fulfils the objectives of the study on 5G-enabled fused
location service capability exposure.
The report includes the following:
1\. Definition of terms and abbreviations used in the study (clause 3);
2\. Key issues identified by the study (clause 5);
3\. Enhancements to Service Enabler Architecture Layer for Verticals (SEAL)
specified in 3GPP TS 23.434, corresponding to the key issues and architectural
assumptions and requirements (clause 4);
4\. Individual solutions addressing the key issues (clause 7);
5\. Overall evaluations of all the solutions (clause 8).
## 9.2 Conclusions for normative work
### 9.2.1 General conclusions
The study concludes with the following general considerations for the
normative work:
1\. Definition of terms and abbreviations captured in clause 3 will be reused;
2\. Architectural requirements identified in clause 4 will be used for updated
baseline architectural requirements.
### 9.2.2 Architecture enhancement conlusions
The study concludes with the following architectural enhancements
considerations for the normative work:
1\. Architecture enhancements from solution #8 as specified in clause 7.8 will
be used for updating the baseline location management server specified in 3GPP
TS 23.434:
### 9.2.3 Solution conclusions
The study concludes with the following solution considerations for the
normative work:
1\. Following individual solutions, corresponding to the key issues, will be
considered as candidate solutions:
1) For key issue#1 (Architecture enhancement of application enablement for
location)
The solution#8 will be considered in the normative phase and used as baseline
enhanced architecture for 5G-enabled fused location service. The enhanced
architecture for SEAL LMS will be specified in TS23.434 to support solution#8.
The solution#2 will be considered in the normative phase and act as supplement
for solution#8.
The enhanced architecture for SEAL LMS will be specified in TS23.434 to
support solution#2.
2) For key issue #2 (Support of LCS QoS)
The solution#7 will be considered in the normative phase. The function and
procedure will be specified in TS23.434 to support solution#7.
The detailed APIs and information flows can be discussed in the normative
phase.
3) For key issue#3 (Location service differentiation)
The solution#5 will be considered in the normative phase. The function and
procedure will be specified in TS23.434 to support solution#5.
The detailed APIs and information flows can be discussed in the normative
phase.
4) For key issue#4(Void)
Void
5) For key issue#5(Initialization and configuration for fused location
service)
The solution#4 and solution#6 will be considered in the normative phase. The
function and procedure will be specified in TS23.434 to support solution#4 and
solution#6.
The detailed APIs and information flows can be discussed in the normative
phase.
6) For key issue#6(Value-Added Location Services)
To be studied in future release.
2\. Individual solutions, not listed under bullet 1 may be adopted in
technical specification with appropriate enhancements.
#