# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
Data analytics is a useful tool for the operator to help optimizing the
service offering by predicting events related to the network or slice or UE
conditions. 3GPP introduced data analytics function (NWDAF) [2] to support
network data analytics services in 5G Core network, and management data
analytics service (MDAS) [3] to provide data analytics at the OAM.
Considering vertical-specific applications and edge applications as the major
consumers of 3GPP-provided data analytics services, the application enablement
layer can play role on the exposure of data analytics services from different
3GPP domains to the vertical/ASP in a unified manner; and on defining, at an
overarching layer, value-add application data analytics services which cover
stats/predictions for the end-to-end application service.
This technical report identifies the key issues and corresponding application
architecture and related solutions with recommendations for the normative
work.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report which identifies the application
enabling layer platform architecture, capabilities, and services to support
data analytics enablement at the application layer.
The aspects of the study include the investigation of application data
analytics services to optimize the application service operation, edge/cloud
analytics enablement, data collection aspects per identified application data
analytics service, coordination of data collection from multiple sources and
unified exposure of data analytics to the vertical/ASP. This study will also
identify potential enhancements to existing enablement layer entities (SEAL,
eEDGEAPP, vertical specific enablers) to consume application data analytics
enablement services.
The study takes into consideration the work done for data analytics in 3GPP TS
23.288 [2] and 3GPP TS 28.104 [3] and other related work outside 3GPP.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.288: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to support
network data analytics services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.104: \"Management and orchestration; Management Data
Analytics\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.434: \"Service Enabler Architecture Layer for Verticals (SEAL);
Functional architecture and information flows\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.558: \"Architecture for enabling Edge Applications\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.531: \"Data Collection and Reporting; General Description and
Architecture\"
[8] 3GPP TR 23.700-96: \"Study on 5G-enabled fused location service capability
exposure\"
[9] 3GPP TS 23.222: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
Common API Framework for 3GPP Northbound APIs\"
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ADAE Application Data Analytics Enabler
A-ADRF Application layer - Analytical Data Repository Function
A-DCCF Application layer - Data Collection and Coordination Function
ADRF Analytical Data Repository Function
ASP Application Service Provider
DCCF Data Collection and Coordination Function
MEP Multi-access Edge Platform
MDAS Management Domain Analytics Service
NWDAF Network Data Analytics Function
OAM Operation, Administration and Maintenance
RNIS Radio Network Information Service
SEAL Service Enabler Architecture Layer
SEALDD Service Enabler Architecture Layer -- Data Delivery
VAL Vertical Application Layer
# 4 Key issues
## 4.1 Key issue #1: Support for application performance analytics
Data analytics related to the application end-to-end QoS and in particular
statistics and predictions on the application server or application session
performance and load can be useful for the application specific layer, so as
to proactively identify potential adaptations of the application service and
to trigger adaptations at the communication layer. One example is the
utilization of analytics by the application specific layer e.g. for selecting
the least loaded EAS for an application session, or for selecting the optimal
PLMN for communicating the application service in a given area.
This key issue will study:
\- whether and how the application data analytics enablement service provides
application QoS related analytics for the application session /service?
\- whether and how the application data analytics enablement service provides
application QoS related analytics tailored for different communication means
(e.g. different PLMNs, RATs, slices)?
\- what data needs to be collected from 3GPP system and application specific
layer for performing application QoS related analytics?
\- how to enable the exposure of application QoS related analytics to the
vertical / ASP in a unified manner?
## 4.2 Key issue #2: Support for edge analytics enablement
Edge deployments are vitally important for applications that require
performance levels that cannot be met by existing cloud deployments. Edge data
analytics may relate to stats/predictions on computational resources and
expected/predicted load of the platform which hosts the edge applications and
may be necessary to be exposed as a service to EAS (which can be either edge
native applications or edge enhanced applications at a centralized cloud).
Particularly, for edge native applications which need to be light designed and
high portable, the use of edge analytics at the edge platform can help
improving the application service operation.
The support for edge analytics at the enablement layer (related to the edge
performance, failure, service availability), would be useful for the edge
applications to allow for dynamically deciding to scale-in, scale-out, migrate
from the edge to the cloud in heavy load situations, or migrate from the cloud
to the edge to improve the quality of experience for the end user. Also, the
need for edge application relocation between edge platforms could be supported
by using analytics which can be leveraged by the EDGEAPP layer and could be
exposed as a service to the application developer for supporting the edge
service operation optimization.
Hence, in this key issue the following points shall be studied:
\- Whether and what edge data are needed to be collected by the application
data analytics enablement server to allow for edge analytics enablement
(related to the edge performance, failure, service availability)?
\- Whether and how the application data analytics enablement server (deployed
in an edge or centralized data network) can be utilized by the corresponding
Edge Enabler layer architecture (as specified in 3GPP TS 23.558 [6]) to
optimize edge services?
\- Whether and how the analytics enablement layer needs to align with the
EDGEAPP layer for allowing the edge services to utilize edge analytics
enablement service to optimize their operation (e.g. triggering pro-active ACR
based on edge analytics)?
\- Whether and how the application data analytics enablement server needs to
align with ETSI MEC system to utilize MEC services?
## 4.3 Key issue #3: Support for data collection for application layer
analytics
For deriving application layer analytics, the data collection may be provided
by different sources (e.g. vertical-specific server, application of the UE,
EAS, 3^rd^ party server, SEAL/SEALDD) and it needs to be identified how these
data can be collected to allow for stats/predictions by the analytics
enablement layer.
The application data analytics enablement layer needs to be capable of
receiving data from different data producers and prepare the data to be used
for deriving analytics. Such data can be measurements or analytics from the
5GS (5GC, OAM), the applications of the VAL UEs, other application enablers
etc.
For example, for application QoS related analytics, such data can be
potentially derived by the OAM, monitoring of network QoS by 5GC, subscribing
and receiving QoS and network analytics from NWDAF, performance data from the
application server, QoS data from enabler layer client-server sessions, etc.
The consumer of the ADAE service may not be aware of the data that need to be
collected from different sources, however the ADAE needs to be capable of
selecting the optimal sources to collect data, subscribe to different data
producers and also retrieve supplementary data samples based on the data
producers\' availability and load.
Hence, this key issue will discuss the following open issues:
\- How to enable the collection and preparation of data at the application
data analytics enablement service for data analytics derivation, when the data
to be collected target the same performance metrics and are originated from
different sources (UE, networking layer, application specific layer, non-3gpp
domains)?
\- Whether and how the application data analytics enablement layer needs to
collect data from multiple sources, at the DN side or locally at the VAL UE
side?
\- Whether and how to leverage the UE data collection support provided by the
SA4 EVEX study?
## 4.4 Key issue #4: Key Issue on interactions with SEAL services
SEAL is the service enabler architecture layer common to all vertical
applications over 3GPP systems. It provides the functions like location
management, group management, configuration management, identity management,
key management, network resource management and network slice capability
management as defined in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
This key issue will study:
\- the applicability of the usage of SEAL services for application data
analytics enablement services considering different deployment and business
models
\- whether any enhancements are required at the SEAL services for exposing
data to the application data analytics enablement service?
\- whether and how application data analytics at the application data
analytics enablement service can be used to optimize SEAL service operation?
NOTE: This KI does not preclude the case where ADAE service is a SEAL service.
## 4.5 Key issue #5: Support for slice-related application data analytics
Data analytics related to slicing are provided by the 5GS, from NWDAF (e.g.
slice load analytics) and MDAS (e.g. NSI/NSSI performance analytics). The
slice capability enablement layer (based on NSCALE) discusses enhancements to
NSCE SEAL service (as specified in TS 23.434 [5]). According to Solution #5 of
TR 23.700-99, the NSCE server is expected to consume 5GS services related to
analytics (from MDAS, NWDAF) and to re-expose them to the VAL server (slice
customer).
If further analytics is required on top of the consumed analytics services
(MDAS/NWDAF), the ADAES can be utilized by NSCE service to perform further
analytics related to applications for certain slice / NSI. Such analytics
service is not overlapping with NWDAF/MDAS services since it will provide at
application layer data analytics (per session or VAL server) which are bound
to a given slice or NSI (e.g. per VAL session performance statistics when
using slice #1).
This key issue will investigate:
\- what is the possible interaction between NSCE service and ADAES, for
providing application layer analytics bound to a slice or an NSI?
\- whether and what data need to be collected by NSCE layer for supporting per
slice or NSI app layer analytics?
## 4.6 Key issue #6: Support for slice configuration recommendation enablement
Slice data analysis can analyze the slice usage pattern based on the collected
network slice performance and analytics, and provide analysis-based slice
management suggestions, such as the slice scale in and scale out, which can be
exposed to VAL or provided to NSCE as a service. One example is, to support
the application layer automatic network slice lifecycle management, in which
the NSCE server is supposed to send out some management recommendation based
on the collected network slice performance analytics from the 5GC, OAM and the
application layer. The recommendation is usually an empirical value given by
experienced network operations, ADAES can help to output the recommendation
according to the analysis based on historical network slice status and network
performance.
Hence, in this key issue the following points shall be studied:
\- How ADEAS supports the slice configuration recommendation based on the
slice related information from NSCE.
## 4.7 Key issue #7: Support for location accuracy analytics
According to SA1 TS 22.261 (6.27) and TS 22.104, positioning services aim to
support verticals and applications with positioning accuracies better than 10
meters, thus more accurate than the ones of TS 22.071 for LCS. High accuracy
positioning is characterized by ambitious system requirements for positioning
accuracy in many verticals and applications, including regulatory needs. For
example, on the factory floor, it is important to locate assets and moving
objects such as forklifts, or parts to be assembled. Similar needs exist in
transportation and logistics, for example rail, road and use of UAVs. In some
road user cases, UE\'s supporting V2X application(s) are also applicable to
such needs. In cases such as guided vehicles (e.g. industry, UAVs) and
positioning of objects involved in safety-related functions, availability
needs to be very high. In SA1, different service levels are mapped to
different positioning performance attributes including vertical and horizontal
accuracies. Such accuracies (e.g. cm-level, dm-level, meter-level) may depend
on the positioning methods which are used, the LCS producers, as well as the
UE mobility and the environment.
When the VAL consumer requests a positioning service, the accuracy is
calculated at the entity which produces a location estimate and whether the
accuracy can be maintained along an application session (for a given
time/area) is challenging to answer at the time of the request/subscription.
In this scenario, there needs to be a translation of the per UE location
report accuracy to an expected /predictive location accuracy derivation for
the application requiring positioning services. Such location accuracy
analytics and in particular the sustainability of vertical and horizontal
accuracy per VAL application (e.g. group of field devices in industrial use
cases) based on per UE reported location accuracies could be needed to make
sure that LMS will meet the VAL customer location reporting requirements for a
given time/area of location request validity. Such information will help
deciding from application side whether for a particular service (e.g. process
automation, AR in factories) adaptation of the application behavior if the
accuracy cannot be maintained e.g. programs the IIOT devices to maintain a
bigger distance etc.
This key issue aims to investigate:
\- whether and how ADAES needs to be enhanced to perform analytics on vertical
and horizontal accuracy for positioning services requested by a VAL customer?
\- what criteria need to be considered (e.g. environment, UE mobility, service
type, positioning method, fusion) and what data are needed to be collected
from 5GS (e.g. NWDAF, LMF) and VAL side for performing location accuracy
analytics for the VAL application?
\- what enhancements are needed in SEAL LMS to support location accuracy
analytics/data per VAL application?
## 4.8 Key issue #8: Support for service API capability analytics
The service APIs (assuming also EAS provided APIs, enablement service APIs and
OAM API), cannot be assumed uniformly available and offering the same service
level across the entire network. For CIoT service, 3GPP SA2 has already
defined a NEF monitoring service to allow the AF to monitor the API
availability and service level (e.g. via invoking a Nnef_APISupportCapability
API as part of the Monitoring Event in TS 23.522) for the target API. However,
this doesn\'t provide analytics on NEF/SCEF APIs and doesn\'t support all
ranges of service APIs (produced or offered at the platform) and focuses on
the CIoT scenarios. Furthermore, CAPIF supports the monitoring of service API
invocations and can provide API monitoring via the _Availability of service
APIs event notification_ or _Service Discover Response_ as specified in TS
23.222.
Service API analytics (such as the statistics on the successful/failed API
invocation or predicted API availability for a given deployment) can be a tool
to be used by the API provider (ASP, ECSP, MNO) to help optimizing the API
usage by enabling him to trigger API related actions like API mashups, API
rate limitations/throttling events, or pro-actively detecting API termination
point changes which may affect service performance. Such service could be also
useful for the API invoker to allow for early notification on expected API
unavailabilities.
One example for such API analytics can be the statistics or prediction of NEF
API or SEAL API invocation request failure probability, or the predicted
number of API invocations for a particular EDN area and time of day or even
the number of unauthorized API invocation requests. Such analytics can be
matched to different APIs and API operations and can be used as a service for
example to help the service API invoker to identify what is the best time and
means to perform a request e.g. so as to avoid possible failure due to high
number of invocations expected for this service API.
This key issue will investigate:
\- whether and how the application data analytics enablement service needs to
provide data analytics for service APIs?
\- what data / API logs and from which entities need to be collected for
performing service API analytics?
\- what enhancements are needed in CAPIF (CCF, API management function) for
supporting service API analytics?
NOTE: Data/analytics related to MNO provided APIs are only possible if ADAES
is deployed by the MNO. For ADAES outside MNO domain, this key issue covers
only non-MNO provided APIs.
# 5 Architecture aspects
## 5.1 Architecture related requirements
### 5.1.1 Description
This subclause specifies the general and ADAE internal requirements for
application data analytics enablement layer functional architecture.
### 5.1.2 General Requirements
[AR-5.1.2-a] The ADAE client and the ADAE server shall support one or more VAL
applications.
[AR-5.1.2-b] Supported ADAE capabilities may be offered as APIs to the VAL
applications.
[AR-5.1.2-c] The ADAE shall support interaction with 3GPP network system to
consume network data analytics services.
[AR-5.1.2-d] The ADAE client shall be capable to communicate with one or more
ADAE servers of the same ADAE service provider.
### 5.1.3 ADAE internal architecture requirements
[AR-5.1.3-a] The ADAE layer shall be able to provide a data collection
coordination functionality to enable the collection from diverse data sources
(OAM, 5GC, UE) per application data analytics event type.
[AR-5.1.3-b] The ADAE layer shall include a data analytics repository function
to store application data analytics.
[AR-5.1.3-c] The data collection coordination and repository capabilities may
be offered as APIs to ADAE server.
## 5.2 ADAE capability related requirements
### 5.2.1 Application performance analytics requirements
#### 5.2.1.1 Description
This subclause specifies the requirements for application performance
analytics capability.
#### 5.2.1.2 Requirements
[AR-5.2.1.2-a] The ADAE server shall be capable of providing data analytics
for the VAL server performance.
[AR-5.2.1.2-b] The ADAE server shall be capable of providing data analytics
for the VAL application sessions (for both Uu-based and PC5-based sessions).
[AR-5.2.1.2-c] The ADAE server shall be able to collect application
performance measurements and analytics from one or more ADAE clients.
### 5.2.2 Edge load analytics requirements
#### 5.2.2.1 Description
This subclause specifies the requirements for edge load analytics capability.
#### 5.2.2.2 Requirements
[AR-5.2.2.2-a] The ADAE server shall be capable of collecting edge data from
one or more edge platforms
[AR-5.2.2.2-b] The ADAE server shall enable the exposure of edge data
analytics to the VAL applications
### 5.2.3 Slice related application data analytics requirements
#### 5.2.3.1 Description
This subclause specifies the requirements for slice related application data
analytics capability.
#### 5.2.3.2 Requirements
[AR-5.2.3.2-a] The ADAE server shall be capable of providing data analytics
for the VAL server or VAL session performance for a requested slice or slice
instance.
[AR-5.2.3.2-b] The ADAE server shall be able to collect slice related
measurements and analytics from one or more 3GPP network system domains (OAM,
5GC).
## 5.3 Functional Architecture
### 5.3.1 General
This clause provides the overall functional architecture description, which
includes the on-network and off-network functional models.
### 5.3.2 On-network Functional Architecture
For the on-network functional architecture, both service-based representation
and reference point representation are provided.
Figure 5.3.2-1 depicts the application data analytics enablement architecture
in the non-roaming case, using the reference point representation showing how
various entities interact with each other.
Figure 5.3.2-1: Architecture for application data analytics enablement \--
reference points representation
The application data analytics enablement client communicates with the
application data analytics enablement server over the ADAE-UU reference point.
The application data analytics enablement client provides the support for
application data analytics enablement functions to the VAL client(s) over
ADAE‑C reference point. The VAL server(s) communicates with the application
data analytics enablement server over the ADAE-S reference point. The
application data analytics enablement server, acting as AF, may communicate
with the 5G Core Network functions (over N33 reference point to NEF and N6
reference point to UPF) and OAM (over ADAE-OAM interface).
Figure 5.3.2-2 exhibits the service-based interfaces for providing and
consuming application data analytics enablement services. The application data
analytics enablement server could provide service to VAL server and ADAE
client through interface SAdaee.
Figure 5.3.2-2: Architecture for application data analytics enablement \--
Service based representation
Figure 5.3.2-3 illustrates the service-based representation for utilization of
the 5GS network services based on the 5GS SBA specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [4].
Figure 5.3.2-3: Architecture for application data analytics enablement
utilizing the 5GS network services based on the 5GS SBA -- Service based
representation
The application data analytics enablement server can be deployed as a SEAL
server; hence enhancements to SEAL architecture (as specified in TS 23.434
[5]) are needed to incorporate the ADAE service. Figure 5.3.2-4 illustrates
the service-based representation including ADAE server as part of the SEAL
framework.
Figure 5.3.2-4: SEAL functional model representation using service-based
interfaces and including ADAE function
### 5.3.3 Off-network Functional Architecture
Figure 5.3.3-1 illustrates the generic off-network functional model for ADAE.
Figure 5.3.3-1: Generic off-network functional model
In the vertical application layer, the VAL client of UE1 communicates with VAL
client of UE2 over VAL-PC5 reference point. An application data analytics
enablement client of UE1 interacts with the corresponding application data
analytics enablement client of UE2 over ADAE-PC5 reference points. The UE1, if
connected to the network via Uu reference point, can also act as a UE-to-
network relay, to enable UE2 to access the VAL server(s) over the VAL-UU
reference point.
If the ADAE server is deployed as SEAL server, the off network functional
architecture is similar to SEAL off-network architecture (as specified in TS
23.434 [5]).
### 5.3.4 ADAE internal architecture based on 3GPP data analytics framework
In 3GPP SA2 (TS 23.288 [2]), the following entities have been defined as part
of the data analytics framework:
\- NWDAF provides network data analytics services at the 5GC
\- DCCF coordinates the collection and distribution of data requested by NF/AF
consumers. Data Collection Coordination is supported by a DCCF. Data Consumers
can send requests for data to the DCCF rather than directly to the NF/AF Data
Source.
\- ADRF stores historical data and/or analytics, i.e., data and/or analytics
related to past time period that has been obtained by the consumer. After the
consumer obtains data and/or analytics, consumer may store historical data
and/or analytics in an ADRF. Whether the consumer directly contacts the ADRF
or goes via the DCCF or via the Messaging Framework is based on configuration.
ADAE server can reuse the existing 3GPP data analytics framework for the data
collection coordination, delivery and storage as provided by DCCF and ADRF
functionalities. As illustrated in Figure 5.3.4-1, A-DCCF and A-ADRF can be
defined as functionalities within the internal ADAE architecture and can offer
similar functionality as proposed in 5GC but at application layer.
Figure 5.3.4-1 illustrates the generic functional model for ADAE when re-using
the existing data analytics model.
Figure 5.3.4-1: Generic functional model based on network data analytics model
In this model, an Application layer - Data Collection and Coordination
Function (A-DCCF) is used to fetch data or put data into an Application level
entity (e.g. A-ADRF, Data Source). Such A-DCCF coordinates the collection and
distribution of data requested by ADAE server (over ADCCF-1, ADAE-X). ADAE
server can also directly interact with the Data Sources via ADAE-Y.
Also, Application layer -- Analytics and Data Repository Function (A-ADRF) can
be used to store historical data and/or analytics, i.e. data and/or analytics
related to past time period that has been obtained by the ADAE server (via
AADRF-1) or other NFs/NWDAF. ADAE server can also fetch historical data from
ADRF. Whether the ADAE server directly contacts the ADRF or goes via the
A-DCCF is based on configuration.
Data Sources can be 5GS data sources (5GC, OAM) or enablement layer data
sources (SEAL, EEL) or external data sources at the DN side (VAL server/EAS)
and VAL UEs. A-DCCF and A-ADRF can be used only for interacting with certain
data sources (e.g. 5GC, OAM) based on configuration, and can be hidden from
the VAL layer.
NOTE: If the Data Source is the VAL UE, then the data collection mechanism
shall reuse the SA4 mechanism based on EVEX study (TS 26.531 [7]).
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Mapping of solutions to key issues
Table 7.1-1: Mapping of solutions to key issues
* * *
            KI \#1   KI \#2   KI \#3   KI \#4   KI \#5   KI \#6   KI \#7   KI \#8
Sol #1 **X**  
Sol #2 **X** **X** **X** **X**  
Sol #3 **X**  
Sol #4 **X**  
Sol #5 **X**  
Sol #6 **X** **X**  
Sol #7 **X** **X**  
Sol #8 **X** **X**  
Sol #9 **X**
* * *
## 6.2 Solution #1: Support for application performance analytics
### 6.2.1 Solution description
This solution addresses Key Issue #1.
This solution introduces application layer analytics to provide insight on the
operation and performance of an application (VAL server or EAS, application
session) and in particular statistics or prediction on parameters related to
e.g. VAL server number of connections for a given time and area, VAL server
rate of connection requests, connection probability failure rates, RTT and
deviations for a VAL server or VAL UE session, packet loss rates etc.
In this solution, two procedures are described in more detail:
\- one procedure for VAL server related analytics where an example in provided
for VAL server performance,
\- one procedure for VAL session/UE related analytics.
#### 6.2.1.1 Procedure on VAL server performance analytics
Figure 6.2.1.1-1 illustrates the procedure where the VAL server performance
analytics are performed based on data collected from the ongoing VAL sessions
as well as data from the DN (VAL server, DN database or networking stack at
DN).
Pre-conditions:
1\. ADAEC is connected to ADAES
Figure 6.2.1.1-1: ADAES support for VAL server performance analytics
1\. The consumer of the ADAES analytics service sends a subscription request
to ADAES and provides the analytics event ID e.g. \"VAL perf prediction\", the
target VAL server ID, the time validity and area of the request, the required
confidence level, whether offline and/or online analytics are needed etc.
2\. The ADAES sends a subscription response as an ACK to the consumer.
**3\. The ADAES maps the analytics event ID to a list of data collection event
identifiers, and optionally a list of data producer IDs. Such mapping may be
preconfigured by OAM or may be configured at ADAES based on the analytics
event type / vertical type.**
**4\. The ADAES sends a subscription request to the Data Producers (at the DN
side or UE side) with the respective Data Collection Event ID and the
requirement for data collection. This message includes the Data Collection
event ID and/or the analytics event ID, the target VAL server ID, the ADAES
ID, the time validity and area of interest, the required confidence level
etc.**
**5\. The Data Producer(s) sends a subscription response as an ACK to the
ADAES.**
NOTE: The ADAES acting as AF may also subscribe to NEF/SMF/PCF/NWDAF to
monitor network/UE situation or network data analytics required for the
application data analytics event.
6\. The ADAES based on subscription, may receive offline stats/data on the VAL
server performance based on the analytics/data collection event ID. Such
offline data can be average/peak throughput, average/maximum e2e delay,
jitter, av. PER, availability, VAL server load, number of failed transactions,
and can be for a given area and time of the day (based on the time/area of the
request). Th edge / cloud DB depending on the deployment can be also part of
ADRF (for MNO-deployed ADAES).
A session starts between the VAL server #1 and a UE (this could happen for
more than one UEs)
7\. The Data Producer starts collecting/listening to real-time networking or
application data (from networking start at DN or VAL server itself). Such data
can be the RTT, the PER, throughput etc.
8a. The Data Producer sends the real-time data to the ADAES, where the data
correspond to the data collection ID or the analytics event ID for which the
ADAES subscribed.
8b. The ADAES may receive also data (periodically or if a threshold is reached
based on configuration) from the application of the UE within the ongoing
session (via ADAEC). Such data can be about the RTT, average/peak throughput,
jitter, QoE measurements (MOS, stalling events, stalling ratios, etc), QoS
profile load, VAL server load, etc.
9\. When the VAL UE session with VAL server finishes, the ADAEC notifies the
ADAEC of the completion of the reporting.
10\. The ADAES abstracts or correlates the data based on the analytics event
and the data collection configuration. Such correlation can be filtering of
data for the same metrics but with different granularities or be
combining/aggregating the data of segments of the end-to-end path (end to end
is between VAL client and server). The outcome is an
abstracted/correlated/filtered set of data.
11\. The ADAES derives application layer analytics on VAL server #1
performance, based on the analytics ID and type of request. Such analytics can
be stats or prediction for a given area/time and based on the event type for a
given network configuration.
12**.** The ADAES sends the analytics to the consumer, where these analytics
include the VAL server 1 predicted or statistic performance for a given area
and time horizon, including also the confidence level, whether offline/online
analytics were used.
#### 6.2.1.2 Procedure on VAL UE / session performance analytics
Figure 6.2.1.2-1 illustrates the procedure where the VAL session performance
analytics are performed based on data collected from the ongoing VAL sessions.
Pre-conditions:
1\. ADAEC is connected to ADAES
Figure 6.2.1.2-1: ADAES support for VAL session performance analytics
1\. The consumer of the ADAES analytics service sends a subscription request
to ADAES and provides the analytics event ID e.g. \"VAL UE perf prediction\",
the target VAL UE ID, VAL server ID/VAL application ID, the time validity and
area of the request, the required confidence level, exposure level for
providing UE analytics. If the consumer is the VAL server, the VAL server can
provide to ADAEC application data related to the UE expected route/trajectory
and VAL application traffic schedule / expected session time.
2\. The ADAES sends a subscription response as an ACK to the consumer.
**3\. The ADAES selects the corresponding ADAEC of the VAL UE for which the
local analytics need to be performed.**
**4a. The ADAES sends a subscription request to the ADAEC with the analytics
event ID and the configuration of the reporting required (e.g. periodic, based
on threshold or event)**
**4b. The ADAEC sends a subscription response to ADAES**
**5\. The ADAEC maps the analytics event ID to a list of data collection event
identifiers or data collected IDs at the VAL UE or other UEs within the
service and in proximity (in group-based communications)**
**6\. The** ADAEC subscribes to the VAL clients and/or requests UE local data
based on the respective Data Collection Event ID (or the analytics event ID if
they already know the mapping). This data may come from the PDU layer of the
UE (via listening the traffic), or via VAL client of one or more UEs (if an
application consists of a group of UEs).
**A session starts between the VAL UE #1 and a VAL server.**
**7\. The** ADAEC (after being aware from the VAL client that the session
started) sends a notification to ADAES that a session started, and it could be
possible to provide real-time data analytics for VAL UE performance in the
target area.
**8\. The ADAEC starts collecting data from the corresponding VAL UE(s) based
on subscription. Such data can be about the RTT, throughput, jitter, QoE
measurements, QoS profile load, etc. It can be also possible that VAL client
provides to ADAEC application data related to the UE expected route/trajectory
and VAL application traffic schedule / expected session time.**
**9\. The ADAEC** filters or correlates the data based on the analytics event
and the data collection configuration.
**10\. When the VAL UE session finishes, the ADAEC (optionally) derives VAL
session analytics to ADAES on VAL UE #1 performance, based on the analytics ID
and type of request. Such analytics (if performed at the ADAEC can be stats or
predictions on the RTT or RTT deviation, average/peak throughput, av. jitter,
QoE measurements (MOS, stalling events, buffer related events), QoS profile
load, VAL application traffic load etc. In case of prediction, a confidence
level shall be also present and a time horizon for the predicted parameters.**
**11\. The ADAEC sends the data of step 8 or the analytics of step 9 (if ADAEC
performs analytics) to the ADAES**.
12\. The ADAES derives application layer analytics on VAL session performance
(based on the data or analytics received by the ADAEC), based on the analytics
ID and type of request. Such analytics can be stats or prediction for a given
area/time and based on the event type for a given network configuration.
**Such analytics (if no analytics is performed at ADAEC) at ADAES can be stats
or predictions on the RTT or RTT deviation, average/peak throughput, av.
jitter, QoE measurements, QoS profile load, VAL application traffic load etc.
In case of prediction, a confidence level shall be also present and a time
horizon for the predicted parameters.**
13**.** The ADAES sends the analytics to the consumer, where these analytics
include the VAL UE 1 session predicted performance for a given area and time
horizon, including also the confidence level, whether offline/online analytics
were used.
### 6.2.2 Corresponding Analytics API
This subclause provides a summary on the corresponding Analytics API for
solution #1.
For VAL server performance analytics, this includes:
\- Inputs: per VAL server performance measurements (application QoS
measurements such as latency, channel losses, data rate, jitter), historical
data/stats for VAL server performance, network/KPI monitoring from 5GS
\- List of Data Sources
\- Data Source #1 information: VAL UE #1 (or more VAL UEs having a session
with VAL server #1), VAL Server #1
\- Data required from Data Source #1: application QoS measurements
\- Data Source #2 information: OAM
\- Data required from Data Source #1: PM data
\- Data Source #3 information: 5GC
\- Data required from Data Source #3: service experience analytics, network
and QoS monitoring
\- Output: Predicted application QoS metrics per VAL server, Statistics on VAL
server application QoS/performance metrics
For VAL session performance analytics, this includes:
\- Inputs: per VAL session performance measurements (application QoS
measurements such as latency, channel losses, data rate, jitter)
\- List of Data Sources:
\- Data Source information: VAL UE #1, VAL Server #1
\- Data required from Data Source: application QoS measurements
\- Output: Predicted application QoS metrics per VAL session
### 6.2.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses Key Issue #1 and introduces application layer
analytics to predict the performance of a VAL server or an application session
between a VAL UE and a VAL server. Such solution enables the VAL layer to get
statistics or predictions for expected deviations of application performance
metrics (e.g. RTT) based on data collected from the ADAE clients, as well as
from 5GS. This solution is complementary to Solution #4 which covers only the
VAL UE-to-UE sessions. Also, this Solution doesn\'t overlap with Solution #2
which provides a generic mechanism for data analytics enablement (and could be
re-used).
This solution is technically viable and doesn\'t introduce any impact on 5GS.
## 6.3 Solution #2: Data Analytics Enablement
### 6.3.1 Solution description
#### 6.3.1.1 General
The following solution corresponds to the key issue #1, 2, 3, 4 on support for
application performance analytics, data collection, edge analytics enablement,
and interaction with SEAL service.
ADAE supporting application and service enablement layer analytics collects
application or service enablement layer related information from the vertical
application layer, service enablement layer, 5GC, and/or OAM to perform data
analytics and to provide statistics or predictions.
The solution addresses the following aspects:
\- Enablement of data analytics services by the ADAES layer, by addressing the
types of interactions possible between ADAES and other service layer entities.
\- Description of how higher-level data analytic requests can be provided to
the ADAES layer, and on how analytics requests are translated into generic
data collection tasks.
\- Description of the information flows for generic data analytics and data
collection.
A data source profile is proposed for a data source which describes
capabilities related to data generation, data availability and pre-processing,
as shown in table 6.3.1.3-1.
A data analytics request from a requesting server/client to ADAE provides
criteria for the data source profile elements to indicate the applicable data
sources. The data analytics request also includes criteria for determining the
information applicable for collection via the data collection procedure. The
data analytics request also includes task processing requirements and
operations used to determine the necessary level of processing by the ADAE, as
shown in table 6.3.1.3-2
A data collection request from ADAE to a source provides information about the
original data source and the data required, as shown in table 6.3.1.3-4.
NOTE 1: Data collection tasks may be performed by ADAE using available
dedicated functionality, e.g. Application Data Collection and Coordination
Function deployed by MNO at the service layer.
NOTE 2: Further definition of the data processing operations will be provided
in the normative phase, including stage 3.
Interaction between ADAE and the vertical application layer can be done over
ADAE-S or ADAE-C reference points.
If ADAE is implemented in the SEAL layer, then:
\- interaction between ADAE server and application enabler servers can be done
over SEAL-S (e.g. for EES see TS 23.558 Figure A.4.1-1, for VAE Server see TS
23.286 Figure 6.2-2). Interactions between ADAE client and the corresponding
application enabler client can be done over SEAL-C.
\- interaction between ADAE server and SEAL server could be done over SEAL-X
(TS 23.434 Figure 6.2-3),
#### 6.3.1.2 Procedures
##### 6.3.1.2.1 Generic server-side initiated data analytics
Pre-conditions:
1\. ADAE is provisioned with data source profiles (Table 6.3.1.3-1) for data
sources in the vertical application layer, application/service enablement
layer (e.g., SEAL server/client, EES/EEC, CAPIF entities), core network (e.g.,
OAM, DCCF, NWDAF), etc. Alternatively, ADAE may perform a discovery for the
data source profiles of data sources of interest.
Figure 6.3.1.2.1-1: Server-side initiated generic data analytics request
1\. The requesting server sends a data analytics request to the serving ADAE
server to initiate data analytics, using either a one-time request or a
subscription request. The request may specify the type of data analytics and
the requirements/ preferences of the required analytics as defined in Table
6.3.1.3-2.
2\. If the request is authorized, the ADAE server may determine which input
data should be collected and the input data sources based on the request and
local policies.
> 3\. Based on the determination in step 2, the ADAE server may collect input
> data from various sources by performing data collection procedure, as
> described in clause 6.3.1.2.3.
NOTE 1: A data repository may be assumed to be available to the ADAE server
for corresponding data storage tasks, as described in clause 6.3.1.2.3. The
repository functionality may be provided e.g. by a SEALDD storage server, or
an Application -- Analytics and Data Repository Function deployed by MNO at
the service enablement layer.
Depending on the type of data source, this step can be performed with several
alternatives as follows:
(a) from other servers:
> 3a. If the requested analytics requires server-side input data, the ADAE
> server may collect input data from the server-side entities such as vertical
> application servers (and EAS, if the target application is an edge
> application) via ADAE-S reference point.
NOTE 2: In this alternative, the ADAE server may also collect input data from
SEAL server(s)and application/service enabler server(s) (e.g. EES, VAE-S).
(b) from ADAE clients:
> 3b1. If the requested analytics requires client-side input data, the ADAE
> server performs the data collection procedure with the corresponding ADAE
> client as source. The request specifies what input data is required from the
> client-side.
NOTE 3: In this alternative, the ADAE client may also collect input data from
SEAL client and application/service enabler clients(s) (e.g. EEC, VAE-C) , or
other ADAE clients (via ADAE-PC5).
(c) from other functions external to the service enablement layer (e.g. NWDAF,
OAM):
> 3c. The ADAE server performs the data collection procedure with other
> analytics functions in the system, such as NWDAF or OAM, as sources. For
> example, the ADAE server may collect input data from 5GC via monitoring
> events or via interactions with NWDAF, receive input data from OAM system,
> receive analytics result from NWDAF by subscription, etc.
4\. If the step 1 request requires data collection without higher-level
analytics, ADAE sends a data analytics response (collected data) to the
requester with the collected data or the location where the collected data is
stored, as defined in Table 6.3.1.3-5.
5\. If the step 1 request includes analytics tasks to be performed, and based
on the collected input data, the ADAE server derives the analytics result. The
ADAE server performs the analytics operations provided in the data analytics
request in step 1. The result of the analytics task on the collected data can
be optionally stored in the repositories available, such as a SEALDD storage
server, Application-ADRF, etc.
6\. Following an analytics task, the ADAE server may perform or trigger other
analytics actions (using requests to the corresponding entities) based on the
analytics result, before providing a final response to the requestor.
7\. The ADAE server provides the requested data analytics task outputs to the
requestor, using either a response or a notification message, depending on the
service used in step 1.
##### 6.3.1.2.2 Generic client-side initiated data analytics
Pre-conditions:
> 1\. ADAE is provisioned with data source profiles (Table 6.3.1.3-1) for data
> sources in the vertical application layer, service enablement layer (e.g.,
> SEAL server/client, EES/EEC, CAPIF entities), core network (e.g., OAM, DCCF,
> NWDAF), etc. Alternatively, ADAE may perform a discovery for the data source
> profiles of data sources of interest.
Figure 6.3.1.2.2-1: Client-side initiated generic data analytics procedure
1\. The requesting client sends a data analytics request to the serving ADAE
client to initiate data analytics, using either a one-time request or a
subscription request. The request may specify the type of data analytics and
the requirements/ preferences of the required analytics, as defined in Table
6.3.1.3-2.
2\. If the request is authorized, the ADAE client determines which input data
should be collected and where to collect the input data based on the request.
3\. Based on the determination in step 2, if client-side input data is
required, the ADAE client may collect input data from the client-side entities
such as vertical application clients (via ADAE-C) and other ADAE clients (via
ADAE-PC5) by performing data collection procedure, as described in clause
6.3.1.2.3.
NOTE 1: In this step, the ADAE client may also collect input data from SEAL
client and application/service enabler clients(s) (e.g. EEC, VAE-C).
4\. The ADAE client sends the data analytics request to the ADAE server, as
defined in Table 6.3.1.3-2. If client-side input data has been collected by
the ADAE client, the collected client-side input data or the location of the
data will also be sent to the ADAE server.
5\. The ADAE server may determine which input data should be collected and the
input data sources, based on the request from the ADAE client and/or local
policies
6\. Based on the request in step 4 and/or the determination in step 5, the
ADAE server may collect input data from various sources by performing data
collection procedure, as described in clause 6.3.1.2.3.
NOTE 2: A data repository may be assumed to be available to the ADAE server
for corresponding data storage tasks, as described in clause 6.3.1.2.3. The
repository functionality may be provided e.g. by a SEALDD storage server, or
an Application -- Analytics and Data Repository Function deployed by MNO at
the service enablement layer.
Depending on the type of data source, this step can be performed with several
alternatives as follows:
(a) from other servers:
> 6a. The ADAE server collects input data from server-side entities such as
> vertical application servers (and EAS, if the target application is an edge
> application) via ADAE-S reference point.
NOTE 3: In this alternative, the ADAE server may also collect input data from
SEAL server(s) and application/service enabler server(s) (e.g. EES, VAE-S).
(b) from other functions external to the service enablement layer (e.g. NWDAF,
OAM):
> 6b. The ADAE server may collect input data and/or request for analytics
> service from other analytics functions in the system.
>
> 7\. If the step 1 request requires data collection without higher-level
> analytics, ADAE server sends a data analytics response (collected data) to
> the requester with the collected data or the location where the collected
> data is stored, as defined in Table 6.3.1.3-3.
8\. If the step 1 request includes analytics tasks to be performed, and based
on the collected input data, the ADAE server derives the analytics result. The
ADAE server performs the analytics operations provided in the data analytics
request in step 4. The result of the analytics task on the collected data can
be optionally stored in the repositories available, such as a SEALDD storage
server, Application-ADRF, etc.
9\. Following an analytics task, the ADAE server sends a data analytics
response (or a notification) to the ADAE client with the analytics result or
the location where the resulting data is stored, as defined in Table
6.3.1.3-3.
10\. Following an analytics task, the ADAE server or client may perform or
trigger other analytics actions (using requests to the corresponding entities)
based on the result, before providing a final response to the requestor.
11\. The ADAE client provides the requested data analytics task outputs to the
requestor, using either a response or a notification message, depending on the
service used in step 1.
##### 6.3.1.2.3 Generic data collection procedure
Figure 6.3.1.2.3-1 describes a generic data collection procedure, i.e,. using
abstract data sources.
> Precondition: ADAE is provisioned with data source profiles (Table
> 6.3.1.3-1) for data sources in the vertical application layer, service
> enablement layer (e.g., SEAL server/client, EES/EEC, CAPIF entities), core
> network (e.g., OAM, DCCF, NWDAF), etc. Alternatively, ADAE may perform a
> discovery for the data source profiles of data sources of interest.
Figure 6.3.1.2.3-1: Generic data collection procedure
1\. ADAE determines data collection sources and processing operations based on
the requirements in the data analytics request. For example, ADAE may
determine whether data should be collected from the application layer, the
service enablement layer, the core network, or whether a data processing task
should be performed using data from multiple layers/sources.
2\. ADAE may collect existing data that can meet or partially meet the
requirements of the data analytics request from sources with the \"Data source
role\" IE set as \"repository\" in the data source profile (e.g., SEALDD
storage server, Application-ADRF). The request and response for data
collection are defined in 6.3.1.3-4 and 6.3.1.3-5.
NOTE 1: ADAE data collection requests/responses may be realized via
subscriptions/notifications.
3\. ADAE collects data from other identified data sources. The request and
response for data collection from a data source are defined in 6.3.1.3-4 and
6.3.1.3-5.
4\. ADAE performs data processing operations as determined in step 1 and/or
required by policies. For example, data samples that target the same
performance metrics but originate from different sources may be normalized and
validated. Such processing may remove samples that are inconsistent across
different sources and keep samples that achieve consensus across all sources.
5\. The collected (and optionally processed) data can be optionally stored in
available repositories, such as a SEALDD storage server, Application-ADRF,
etc.
#### 6.3.1.3 Information Flows
The data source profile includes information about the data
generation/production capability of the data source to support data collection
for data analytics service and the availability/accessibility of the
generated/produced data, as defined in Table 6.3.1.3-1.
Table 6.3.1.3-1: Data source profile
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Source ID | M | ID of the source | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Data source entity | M | Specifies the type of the | | | | entity, such as a vertical | | | | application server, a SEAL | | | | server/client, EES/EEC, | | | | EAS, etc.(NOTE 1) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information type | M | Type of information can be | | | | provided by the data | | | | source, e.g., performance | | | | indicators, resource usage | | | | data, server load data, | | | | etc. The information types | | | | may also include those | | | | obtained from NWDAF or OAM | | | | events, or from service | | | | layer original sources such | | | | as application performance | | | | (solution #1), edge load | | | | (solution #3), (NOTE 2) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Data generation schedule | O | The schedule of data | | | | generation, e.g. when the | | | | data source is active to | | | | produce data. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Data source role | O | Role of the data source, | | | | e.g., original source, | | | | repository, logging server, | | | | etc. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Original source | O | If the data source role is | | | | not original source, | | | | specifies the original data | | | | source of the data provided | | | | by this data source. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Data freshness | O | If the data source role is | | | | not original source, length | | | | of time elapsed after the | | | | data is generated until is | | | | available at the data | | | | source. Alternatively, the | | | | data collection rate | | | | supported by the source is | | | | provided | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Data storage capability | O | Indicates data storage | | | | capabilities, e.g. how long | | | | the data can be stored. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Anonymization capability | O | Indicates whether the data | | | | available at this data | | | | source can be anonymized | | | | before collection. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Pre-processing capabilities | O | Indicates capabilities of | | | | the data source to provide | | | | pre-processing | | | | functionality, such as | | | | aggregation, validation, | | | | etc. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Original source | O | Constraints of the original | | communication constraints | | source such as geographic | | | | constraints, access | | | | technology associated with | | | | the original data source, | | | | etc. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | NOTE 1: The list of | | | | possible choices may be | | | | determined in the | | | | specification phase, based | | | | on ADAES capabilities to | | | | interact with other service | | | | layer entities | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The values | | | | available for \"information | | | | type\" may be determined in | | | | the specification phase. | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
Table 6.3.1.3-2 describes information elements in the data analytics task
request from the requester to ADAE or from ADAE client to ADAE server.
Table 6.3.1.3-2: Data analytics request
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | **Requester ID** | **M** | **ID of the requesting | | | | server/client making the | | | | request** | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | **Data source profile |** M**|** List of criteria for | | criteria**| | determining the data | | | | sources, based on the IEs | | | | present in the Data source | | | | profile table 6.3.1.3-1.** | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | **Information filter** | **O** | **Parameters and | | | | constraints of the | | | | information collected for | | | | the task. For example, the | | | | filter may specify a PLMN, | | | | a service provider, area of | | | | interest, time window of | | | | interest, reporting | | | | threshold (for NWDAF | | | | subscriptions), etc....** | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | **Task processing |** O**|** Specifies data processing | | operation**| | operations that need to be | | | | performed on the collected | | | | data to produce the | | | | analytics results, such as | | | | normalization, rounding, | | | | clean-up, etc. to generate | | | | the** task results. | | | | | | | | **When the task requires | | | | data to be collected from | | | | multiple sources, this | | | | parameter may specify | | | | operations to combine/merge | | | | the data from different | | | | sources such as | | | | aggregation, validation, | | | | data alignment, etc.** | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | **Task requirements** | **O** | **Specifies requirements on | | | | the data analytics task or | | | | the resulting data, e.g., | | | | when the task results are | | | | needed, where the resulting | | | | data should be stored, | | | | required data | | | | sampling/updating rate, | | | | required number of data | | | | samples, required amount | | | | (size) of collected data | | | | (dataset), required data | | | | granularity/accuracy, | | | | required level of | | | | confidence, etc.** | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | **Existing input data** | **O** | **Specifies input data that | | | | may already be available.** | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
Table 6.3.1.3-3 describes information elements in the data analytics response
from ADAE to the requester.
Table 6.3.1.3-3: Data analytics response
* * *
Information element Status Description ADAES ID M ID of the ADAES Task results
O Output of the data analytics task.
* * *
Table 6.3.1.3-4 describes information elements in the data collection request
from ADAE to a data source.
Table 6.3.1.3-4: Data collection request
* * *
Information element Status Description ADAES ID M ID of the ADAES Original
data source M Identifies all the original data sources. Data required M
Identifies the data to be collected.
* * *
Table 6.3.1.3-5 describes information elements in the data collection response
from the data source to ADAE.
Table 6.3.1.3-5: Data collection response
* * *
Information element Status Description ADAES ID M ID of the ADAES Data
collection output O Output of the data collection request.
* * *
### 6.3.2 Evaluation
The solution addresses Key Issue #1, 2, 3, 4 on support for data collection
for application and provides generic procedures and APIs to support different
types of data analytics (e.g., application performance analytics, edge
analytics, etc.).
The solution defines generic procedures for application data analytics
enablement service enablement, including interactions with other service
enablement layer entities (e.g., SEAL, EEL) or the core network. The solution
also enables ADAES to select data sources and to collect data for the
analytics services provided. The solution specifies the API for requesting
application data analytics enablement service and for enabling the collection
and preparation of data that are originated from different sources.
## 6.4 Solution #3: Support for edge load analytics
### 6.4.1 Solution description
This solution addresses Key Issue #2.
This solution introduces edge load analytics to provide insight on the
operation and performance of an EDN and in particular statistics or prediction
on parameters related to:
\- the EAS / EES load for one or more EAS/EES
\- edge platform load parameters, which include the aggregated load per EDN or
per DNAI due to the edge support services and e.g., load level of edge
computational resources.
Such analytics can improve edge support services by allowing the pro-active
edge service operation changes to deal with possible edge overload scenarios.
For example, this can trigger EAS migration to a different EDN / central DN,
or pro-active EAS reselection for a target UE or group of UEs.
Figure 6.4.1-1 illustrates the procedure where the edge analytics are
performed based on data collected from the EDN (EAS and/or EES, edge database
or networking stack at EDN side).
Pre-conditions:
1\. ADAES has discovered the APIs to access the edge services at EDN.
Figure 6.4.1-1: ADAES support for edge analytics
1\. The consumer of the ADAES analytics service sends a subscription request
to ADAES and provides the analytics event ID e.g. edge performance prediction
or stats, the DNN / DNAI, the time validity and area of the request, the
required confidence level, whether offline and/or online analytics are needed
etc.
2\. The ADAES sends a subscription response as an ACK to the consumer.
**3\. The ADAES maps the analytics event ID to a list of data collection event
identifiers, and optionally a list of data producer IDs. Such mapping may be
preconfigured by OAM or may be configured at ADAES based on the analytics
event ID. Such Data Producers can be EASs onboarded to EDN, EESs, SEALDD
server, MEP services (e.g. RNIS).**
**4\. The ADAES sends a subscription request to the Data Producers (EASs
onboarded to EDN, EESs, SEALDD server, RNIS, N6 endpoint at EDN, NWDAF, OAM)
with the respective Data Collection Event ID and the requirement for data
collection. This message includes the Data Collection event ID and/or the
analytics event ID, the ADAES ID, the time validity and area of the request,
the required confidence level etc.**
**5\. The Data Producer(s) sends a subscription response as an ACK to the
ADAES.**
**6\. The ADAES based on subscription, may receive offline stats/data on the
edge DN load based on the analytics/data collection event ID from the data
producer or from A-ADRF (see clause 5.3.4). Such offline data can be per EDN
or per DNAI or per EAS/EES load statistics and edge computational resource
utilization stats for a given time and area of interest. One example can be
the load in terms of number of EAS or EES connections for a given area or time
window, or the average edge computational resource usage or usage ratio based
on the EDN total resource availability, EDN overload/high load indication
events, probability of EAS/EES unavailability due to high load, etc.**
**7\. The Data Producers at the edge start collecting data. Such data can be
measurements or analytics based on the data source/producer, as follows:**
\- from OAM or EAS/ASP (for EAS load info): Per EAS/EES computational resource
load, number of connections per EES/EAS
\- from SEALDD server / N6 endpoint: N6 load / SEALDD server load
\- from 5GC / NWDAF: DN performance analytics
\- from OAM / MDAS: UPF load analytics (per DNAI)
\- from MEC platform services (e.g., RNIS): per cell radio conditions / load
for all cells within EDN coverage
NOTE: How the ADAES obtains the EAS load information from EAS/ASP is up to
implementation.
**8\. The Data Producer send the data to the ADAES (based on step 7
measurements or analytics), where the data correspond to the data collection
ID or the analytics event ID for which the ADAES subscribed. Such data can be
provided one time or periodically or based on a threshold (e.g., load >X%).**
9\. The ADAES derives edge analytics on EDN / DNAI load or per EES/EAS load,
based on the analytics ID and type of request. The analytics are derived based
on the performance analytics received per DN or load analytics per DNAI/UPF;
as well as considering measurements on the computational or RAN resource load
or number of connections for the EES/EASs which are active at the EDN. Such
analytics can be stats or prediction for a given area/time and based on the
event type for a given network configuration. Such analytics can be for
example a predicted load indication for the EDN or for an EES or EAS (e.g. 50%
load or medium /high load), a predictive **load in terms of number of EAS or
EES connections for a given area or time window, or the predicted
computational resource usage or usage ratio based on the EDN total resource
availability, EDN overload/high load indication events, probability of EAS/EES
unavailability due to high load.**
10**.** The ADAES sends the edge analytics to the consumer, based on the
request and the derived analytics in step 9. Such analytics indicate a
prediction of the EDN load considering inputs from both 5GS as well as from
edge platform services. Such prediction can also be in form of a
recommendation for triggering an EAS relocation to a different platform.
### 6.4.2 Corresponding Analytics API
This subclause provides a summary on the corresponding Analytics API for
solution #3.
\- Inputs: edge platform load data, EAS/EES load data, DN performance data,
UPF load analytics.
\- List of Data Sources
\- Data Source #1 information: OAM / MDAS
\- Data required from Data Source #1: UPF load analytics
\- Data Source #2 information: 5GC / NWDAF
\- Data required from Data Source #2: DN performance analytics
\- Data Source #3 information: SEALDD server
\- Data required from Data Source #3: N6 load measurements, SEALDD
computational resource load
\- Data Source #4 information: EES
\- Data required from Data Source #4: EES computational resource load or
number of connections of EES
\- Data Source #5 information: EAS
\- Data required from Data Source #5: EAS computational resource load or
number of connections of EAS
\- Data Source #6 information: RNIS
\- Data required from Data Source #6: per cell average radio conditions and
resource utilization (for all cells within edge coverage)
\- Output: stats or predictions on the EDN load conditions, EES or EAS load
stats/predictions, recommendation for EAS relocation trigger (due to expected
high load or edge resources).
### 6.4.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses Key Issue #2 and introduces edge data analytics to
predict the load of an edge platform or an edge service. Such analytics can
improve edge support services by allowing the pro-active edge service
operation changes to deal with possible edge overload scenarios.
This solution is feasible and doesn\'t introduce any dependency to 3GPP
network systems. For the interaction to 5GC, ADAE server acts as AF, whereas
for the interaction to OAM, ADAE server can be seen as a trusted 3^rd^ party
MDA service consumer (for consuming UPF load analytics). For the data
collection related to ETSI MEC service like RNIS, this is only possible if the
EDN has deployed such service, and any interaction between ADAE server and
RNIS can be either up to ECSP implementation or by re-using EDGE-3 interface
(RNIS acting as EAS).
## 6.5 Solution #4: Support for performance analytics for UE-to-UE sessions
### 6.5.1 Solution description
This solution addresses Key Issue #1.
This solution introduces application layer analytics to predict the
performance of an application session among two or more VAL UEs within a
service or group. Such prediction relates to application QoS attributes
prediction for a given time horizon and area. This can be requested by the VAL
server during the session, or the VAL server can subscribe to receive
predicted application QoS downgrade indication for an ongoing session. Such
analytics will help improving the application service experience and allow the
VAL layer to pro-actively adapt to predicted application QoS changes.
Figure 6.5.1-1 illustrates the procedure where the VAL session performance
analytics are performed based on data collected from the ongoing VAL sessions.
Pre-conditions:
1\. ADAECs are connected to ADAES
Figure 6.5.1-1: ADAES support for VAL session performance analytics
> 1\. The consumer of the ADAES analytics service sends a subscription request
> to ADAES and provides the analytics event ID e.g. \"VAL UE to UE session
> prediction\", the target VAL UE ID or group of UE IDs, the VAL session /
> service ID, the time validity and area of the request, the required
> confidence level, exposure level for providing UE to UE analytics. Such
> request can also include whether the analytics notification shall be
> periodic or based on an expected application QoS change (in that case also
> the thresholds can be provided at the request)
>
> 2\. The ADAES sends a subscription response as an ACK to the consumer.
>
> **3\. The ADAES selects the corresponding ADAEC #1 of the VAL UE 1 where the
> session performance analytics need to be performed. Such UE can be for
> example a capable and authorized UE from the involved VAL UEs within the
> service or group, e.g. a group lead.**
>
> **4a. The ADAES sends a subscription request to the ADAEC #1 with the
> analytics event ID and the configuration of the reporting required (e.g.,
> periodic, based on threshold or event). Such request also includes the
> application QoS attributes to be analyzed (latency, jitter, PER,..)**
>
> **4b. The ADAEC #1 sends a subscription response to ADAES**
>
> **A session starts between the VAL UE #1 and a VAL UE #2 (or more VAL
> UEs).**
>
> **5\. The** ADAEC #1 (after being aware from the VAL client that the session
> started) sends a notification to ADAES that a session started, and it could
> be possible to provide real-time data analytics for VAL UE to UE session
> performance in the target area.
>
> **6\. The ADAEC #1 starts collecting data from the corresponding VAL UE(s)
> based on subscription. Such data can be about the latency, throughput,
> jitter, QoE measurements, PQI load, etc. The data can be collected by ADAEC
> #1 from other ADAECs via ADAE-C interface, or from the VAL clients (VAL
> client to VAL client interaction is out of scope).**
>
> **7\. The ADAEC** either detects or predicts an application QoS change
> (depending on the authorization of ADAEC to perform analytics). Such change
> can be for example an application QoS downgrade related to the UE-to-UE
> session latency, or the PER/channel losses higher than a predefined
> threshold, for a given time horizon with a certain confidence level.
>
> **8\. The ADAEC sends the data or the analytics (depending on whether ADAEC
> provides a prediction) to the ADAES**.
>
> 9\. The ADAES based on the received notification, confirms/verifies the
> analytics received or provides analytics (in case that data were reported)
> for the UE-to-UE session. Such analytics can be about predicting the
> application QoS change for the UE-to-UE session.
>
> 13**.** The ADAES sends the analytics to the consumer.
### 6.5.2 Corresponding Analytics API
This subclause provides a summary on the corresponding Analytics API for
solution #x
\- Inputs: per UE-to-UE session performance measurements (application QoS
measurements such as latency, channel losses, data rate, jitter)
\- List of Data Sources
\- Data Source information: VAL UE #1, VAL UE #2
\- Data required from Data Source: application QoS measurements
\- Output: Predicted application QoS metric change (downgrade or upgrade)
### 6.5.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses Key Issue #1 and introduces application layer
analytics to predict the performance of an application session among two or
more VAL UEs. Such solution enables the VAL layer to pro-actively adapt to
predicted application QoS changes for VAL UE-to-UE sessions.
This solution is technically viable and doesn\'t introduce any impact on 5GS.
## 6.6 Solution #5: Service experience to support application performance
analytics
### 6.6.1 Solution description
This solution addresses the open issues stated in Key Issue #1, specifically
on what data to be collected. This solution supplements the existing solution
#1 in clause 6.2 with service experience information.
In some scenarios, where data from Application servers (like VAL server) is
not available (overload or any other reasons) or doesn\'t show the quality of
service experience at the UE side, the ADAE server may need to rely on
alternate information sources like the application clients (like VAL clients)
that provide the visibility on application service status. ADAE server can use
this information from the clients alone, for the predictions and share with
the consumer of the analytics. This solution supports a mechanism for the ADAE
client to send service experience report to the ADAE server. ADAE server upon
receiving the service experience information from the UE side entities can use
it for predictions of application performance analytics. The service
experience information from VAL client may include end-to-end response time,
connection bandwidth, request rate, VAL server availability, etc.
This solution describes three procedures in more detail:
\- Pull service experience information
\- Push service experience information
\- Service experience information based on triggers configured by ADAE server
at ADAE client.
#### 6.6.1.1 Pull service experience information
Figure 6.6.1.1-1 illustrates the procedure where the ADAE server pulls the
service experience information from the ADAE client.
Figure 6.6.1.1-1: Pull service experience informtion from UE
The procedure can be initiated by the ADAE server upon receiving a service
experience from an ADAE client, to fetch service experience information other
ADAE clients or upon receiving VAL server performance analytics request from
application service provider (application server) or any other event that
requires the ADAE server to determine the service experience data.
1\. The ADAE server sends Pull service experience request to the ADAE client.
The request contains identity of the specific VAL server and VAL service ID,
for which the service experience report is required, as mentioned in Table
6.6.1.1-1.
Table 6.6.1.1-1: Pull service experience information request
* * *
Information element Status Description VAL server Identity M Identity of the
VAL server for which the service experience information is requested. VAL
service ID O Identity of the VAL service.
* * *
2\. Upon receiving the Pull service experience request from the ADAE server,
the ADAE client may take user consent to send the report if the user consent
is not available already.
3\. The ADAE client sends the Pull service experience response to the ADAE
server. The response contains service experience report, as specified in Table
6.6.1.1-2. The ADAE client receives the service experience related information
from the VAL client.
Table 6.6.1.1-2: Pull service experience information request response
* * *
Information element Status Description Result M Indicates whether the report
is available or not VAL UE ID M Identity of the VAL UE VAL service ID (NOTE) O
Identity of the VAL service. VAL Server Id M Identify the VAL server for which
the service experience report is sent Timestamp (NOTE) O Time stamp of the
collected report VAL service experience report (NOTE) O Information related to
VAL service experience. It may include end-to-end response time, connection
bandwidth, request rate, VAL server availability, etc. NOTE: These IEs are
included only if the result is success.
* * *
4\. The ADAE server uses the service experience report for derivation of VAL
server performance analytics.
#### 6.6.1.2 Push service experience information
Figure 6.6.1.2-1 illustrates the procedure where the ADAE client pushes the
service experience information to the ADAE server.
Figure 6.6.1.2-1: Push service experience informtion from UE
The ADAE client determines the service experience information based on
information received from the VAL client. The service experience information
includes application specific performance measurements like end-to-end
response time, connection bandwidth, request rate, server availability time,
etc. On request VAL client or any other trigger conditions, the ADAE client
sends the service experience report about a VAL server to the ADAE server.
1\. The ADAE client sends Push service experience request to the ADAE server.
The request contains service experience report about a VAL server and includes
the information elements as specified in Table 6.6.1.2-1.
Table 6.6.1.2-1: Push service experience information request
* * *
Information element Status Description VAL UE ID M Identity of the VAL UE VAL
service ID O Identity of the VAL service. VAL Server Id M Identify the VAL
server for which the service experience report is sent Timestamp O Time stamp
of the collected report VAL service experience report O Information related to
VAL service experience. It may include end-to-end response time, connection
bandwidth, request rate, VAL server availability, etc.
* * *
2\. Upon receiving the Push service experience request from the ADAE client,
the ADAE server uses the service experience report for derivation of VAL
server performance analytics.
3\. The ADAE server sends Push service experience response to the ADAE client.
The ADAE server may take further actions based on the analysis of the report
as shared by the ADAE client. A service experience information from certain
UEs, can trigger the ADAE server to fetch further service experience
information other UEs. Use the service experience information report from
other UEs, to determine/predict analytics.
\- If most of the UE side entities report a similar service experience, then
it could be the application server problem across globally.
\- If only some UEs report a bad service experience, the problem could be
localized among a group of UEs.
\- If the bad service experience from only a UE, the problem is localized to
the UE.
#### 6.6.1.3 Service experience information based on triggers
Figure 6.6.1.3-1 illustrates procedure for the ADAE server to configure
triggers to the ADAE client to send the service experience report. The
procedure can be initiated by the ADAE server upon receiving VAL server
performance analytics request from application service provider (application
server).
Figure 6.6.1.3-1: Configure service experience report trigger
1\. The ADAE server sends Configure service experience report trigger request
to the ADAE client. The request contains identity of the specific VAL
server(s) for which the service experience report is required. The request
includes the information elements as specified in Table 6.6.1.3-1.
Table 6.6.1.3-1: Configure service experience report trigger request
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | VAL Server specific | M | Identify the list of VAL | | criteria | | servers for which the | | | | service experience report | | | | is requested | | | | | | | | List of VAL server specific | | | | criteria | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | > VAL Server Id | M | Identity of the VAL server | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | > Triggering Criteria | M | Information about the | | | | triggers on which the | | | | service experience is to be | | | | reported for the VAL server | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Common Triggering criteria | O | Information about the | | | | triggers (applicable to all | | | | VAL servers) on which the | | | | service experience is | | | | fetched | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Service experience | O | Information about the | | measurement to monitor | | service experience | | | | measurements which needs to | | | | be fetched and included in | | | | the report. If not present, | | | | by default end-to-end | | | | response time is measured. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Notification Target Address | O | The Notification target | | | | address (e.g. URL) where | | | | the notifications destined | | | | for the ASM Server should | | | | be sent to. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
2\. Upon receiving the Configure service experience report trigger request
from the ADAE server, the ADAE client stores the triggering criteria for
sending service experience report and may take user consent to send the report
if the user consent is not available already.
3\. The ADAE client sends the Configure service experience report trigger
response to the ASM server, indicating the result of the request.
### 6.6.2 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses Key Issue #1 and the introduces a mechanism for the
ADAE server to use the service experience information from the UE side
entities via ADAE clients to determine the application performance analytics.
The solution proposes three mechanisms, ADAE server pulls the service
experience information from the ADAE, ADAE server pulls the service experience
information from ADAE client based on certain triggers configured on the ADAE
client by the ADAE server, and ADAE client pushes to ADAE server.
## 6.7 Solution #6: Support for slice related application data analytics
### 6.7.1 Solution description
This solution addresses Key Issue #5.
This solution introduces application layer analytics to provide insight on the
performance of the VAL applications when using a given network slice (from a
list of subscribed slices for the VAL customer). Such solution provides an
analytics service to a consumer who can be either the VAL server (for helping
to identify what slice it will use for its applications) or for other
consumers such as SEAL NSCE to support on providing analytics (since NSCE
doesn\'t contain an analytics engine for providing analytics on top of
NWDAF/MDAS).
Figure 6.7.1-1 illustrates the procedure where the VAL server performance
analytics are performed based on data collected from the ongoing VAL sessions
as well as data from the DN (VAL server, DN database or networking stack at
DN).
Pre-conditions:
1\. ADAEC is connected to ADAES
Figure 6.7.1-1: ADAES support for slice-related performance analytics
1\. The consumer of the ADAES analytics service sends a subscription request
to ADAES and provides the analytics event ID e.g. \"slice perf prediction\",
the target S-NSSAI, DNN, NSI ID, the time validity and area of the request,
the required confidence level, whether offline and/or online analytics are
needed etc.
2\. The ADAES sends a subscription response as an ACK to the consumer.
**3\. The ADAES subscribes to the Data Sources with the respective Data
Collection Event ID and the requirement for data collection related to the
request slice(s). Such requests can be towards:**
\- OAM for providing PM data related to the requested slice / NSI.
Alternatively, if the interaction to OAM happens via NSCE layer, such
subscription can be performed to NSCE (where ADAES is acting as VAL server).
\- NWDAF for providing slice related analytics for the given area and time
horizon (indicated in step 1). Such analytics can be the slice load level
related network data analytics, or the service experience related network data
analytics for a given slice
4\. The ADAES based on subscription, receives PM data notification from OAM or
from NSCE (via OAM APIs or NSCE-S APIs)
5\. The ADAES based on subscription, receives the requested NWDAF analytics
outputs. Such analytics can be:
\- network slice or NSI statistics or predictions (clause 6.3.3 of TS 23.288)
\- per slice instance service experience stats or predictions (clause 6.4.3 of
TS 23.288)
6\. The ADAES can also provide analytics on the VAL session performance based
on Solution #1 procedure 6.1.2 and filters the analytics only for the sessions
which are connected to that requested slice for the area of interest.
7\. The ADAES abstracts or correlates the data/analytics from steps 4-6 and
provides analytics on the slice or NSI performance for the the target VAL
application/server. For example, such analytics can be about the
min/average/max predicted RTT / end to end latency for the VAL
application/server if this server uses a given slice/NSI (or for a list of
given slices) within an area of interest.
8**.** The ADAES sends the analytics to the consumer.
### 6.7.2 Corresponding Analytics API
This subclause provides a summary on the corresponding Analytics API for
solution #x
\- Inputs: per slice measurements and analytics, application session
performance analytics, historical data on slice information
\- List of Data Sources:
\- Data Source #1 information: OAM or NSCE
\- Data required from Data Source #1: PM data for a given NSI
\- Data Source #2 information: NWDAF
\- Data required from Data Source #2: slice load analytics for NSI/S-NSSAI,
service experience for NSI/S-NSSAI
\- Data Source #3 information: VAL UEs (based on Solution #1)
\- Data required from Data Source #3: application QoS measurements for an
application session connected to requested slice
\- Output: Statistics or prediction for the VAL application QoS for one or
more requested S-NSSAIs/NSIs
### 6.7.3 Solution evaluation
This solution introduces application layer analytics to provide insight on the
performance of the VAL applications when using a given network slice (from a
list of subscribed slices for the VAL customer). This solution is technically
viable and does not have any dependency to other slice related analytics since
it targets the application performance for a target slice or NSI and not the
network slice related performance.
## 6.8 Solution #7: Slice configuration recommendation
### 6.8.1 Solution description
This solution addresses Key Issue #6.
This solution provides a procedure for network slice configuration
recommendation based on collected network slice performance and analytics and
historical network slice status and network performance. The consumer can be
either the VAL server or other consumers such as SEAL NSCE.
Figure 6.8.1-1 illustrates the procedure for network slice configuration
recommendation.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The ADAES is registered and capable of interacting with 5GS to collected
network slice data.
2\. The ADAES is registered and capable of interacting with NSCE to collected
network slice performance and analytic.
Figure 6.8.1-1: ADAES support for network slice configuration recommendation
> 1\. The consumer of the ADAES sends a subscription request to ADAES and
> provides the target S-NSSAI, DNN, slice requirement, area of the interest,
> interest time period of the historical data (e.g. last year), the required
> confidence level, whether offline and/or online analytic are needed etc.
>
> 2\. The ADAES sends a subscription response to the consumer.
>
> **3\. The ADAES subscribes to the Data Sources with the respective Data
> Collection Event ID and the requirement for data collection related to the
> request slice(s). Such requests can be sent to SEAL NSCE, OAM, NWDAF or the
> combination of them.**
>
> **4\. Based on subscription, the ADAES (acting as VAL server) may receive**
> performance and analytics data from SEAL NSCE (e.g. QoE metrics, as defined
> in the TS 23.435 clause 9.4.2).
>
> 5\. **Based on subscription, the ADAES may receive Network slice / NSI**
> related performance data from OAM as defined in TS 28.552 [12]**.**
>
> **6\. Based on subscription, the ADAES may receives Network slice related**
> Observed Service experience statistics, Load level information of a Network
> Slice defined from NWDAF as defined in TS 23.288[18]
>
> **7\. If the data is collected from multiple sources, the ADAES combines or
> correlates the data/analytics from steps 3-5, and stores the data into data
> repository if needed.**
>
> **8\. Collect the historical data from data repository and analyze the
> network slice usage pattern. When the amount of stored historical data does
> not cover the required** interest time period of the historical data**,
> ADAES analyze the slice usage pattern based on the existing stored
> historical data.**
>
> **9\. The ADAES provides** network slice configuration recommendation
> **based on the** slice requirement, **slice performance and derived slice
> usage pattern from step 8**.
>
> 8**.** The ADAES sends the network slice configuration recommendation to the
> consumer. The recommendation may be related to parameters in the slice
> serviceProfile if the consumer is the SEAL NSCE. Or the recommendation may
> be related to slice resource /functional configuration (e.g. slice capacity,
> coverage) if the consumer is the management system.
### 6.8.2 Corresponding Analytics API
This subclause provides a summary on the corresponding Analytics API for
solution #7
\- Inputs: per slice measurements and analytics, historical data on slice
information
\- List of Data Sources:
\- Data Source #1 information: SEAL NSCE
\- Data required from Data Source #1: performance and analytics data for a
given S-NSSAI
\- Data Source #2 information: OAM
\- Data required from Data Source #2: PM data for a given S-NSSAI
\- Data Source #3 information: NWDAF
\- Data required from Data Source #3: slice load analytics for S-NSSAI,
service experience for S-NSSAI
\- Data Source #4 information: A-ADRF
\- Data required from Data Source #4: historical slice load analytics and
service experience for S-NSSAI.
\- Output: Statistics for the network slice configuration recommendation for
one or more requested S-NSSAIs. The recommendation may be related to
parameters in the slice serviceProfile per S-NSSAI if the consumer is the SEAL
NSCE. Or the recommendation may be related to slice resource /functional
configuration per S-NSSAI / NSI (e.g. slice capacity, coverage) if the
consumer is the management system.
### 6.8.3 Solution evaluation
This solution is technically viable and does not have any dependency to other
slice related analytics since it targets the slice configuration
recommendation for a target S-NSSAI.
## 6.9 Solution #8: support for location accuracy analytics
### 6.9.1 Solution description
This solution addresses Key Issue #7.
This solution introduces application layer analytics to allow a VAL server to
be notified based on analytics whether the accuracy of a location can be met
for a given application and optionally for a given UE/group route. For
example, a VAL server may request the ADAE server to provide analytics whether
the accuracy of a location for the UEs within a VAL application is predicted
to be sustainable or is expected to downgrade in a specific area or for an
expected route from location A to location B.
Figure 6.9.1-1 illustrates the procedure for location accuracy analytics
enablement solution.
Pre-conditions:
1\. ADAES is connected to A-ADRF
2\. ADAES has discovered SEAL LMS or FLS
Figure 6.9.1 -1: Location accuracy analytics procedure
1\. The VAL server makes a request to ADAE server for location accuracy
prediction/stats, including an analytics event ID (e.g. \"location accuracy
prediction\" or \"location accuracy sustainability\"), an analytics request
type (if not identified specifically at the event ID) which can be the
location accuracy prediction for a given location X and/or for a given UE/app.
The request may include also the target area, a target VAL application, or a
VAL UE, group of UEs or the VAL service, time of day, accuracy threshold and
requirements. If the VAL UEs are provided by the VAL server, this request may
also include the expected route or a set of waypoints for the UEs of the VAL
application.
2\. The ADAE server sends a subscription response as an ACK to the VAL server.
**3\. The** ADAE server **discovers and maps the Data Sources with the
respective analytics event ID for collecting location data for the
corresponding VAL UEs or VAL service or area.**
**4a/4b. The** ADAE server **subscribes for NWDAF UE mobility analytics per
VAL UE (for all the VAL UEs) and gets notification on the per UE
location/mobility analytics based on TS 23.288 clause 6.7.2. Such analytics
may be requested for a list of waypoints per UE route (if indicated at step
1).**
**5a/5b. The** ADAE server **requests and receives from SEAL LMS location
reports for the respective VAL UEs or location reports from all VAL UEs within
the requested area. Such request may also indicate the required location
accuracy (requires enhancements to SEAL LMS procedures). In case where FLS is
deployed, it can be also possible to request and receive fused location
reports (combined location reports from 3gpp/n3gpp sources) if the** ADAE
server **identifies that higher location accuracy is required.**
**6\. The** ADAE server **may also request and receive location accuracy
historical analytics /data from A-ADRF for the corresponding VAL UEs or VAL
service area.**
**7\. The** ADAE server **abstracts or correlates the data/analytics from
steps 4-6 and provides analytics on the location accuracy for the the target
VAL application**. Depending on the event ID in step 1, the **ADAE server can
indicate whether the location accuracy is sustainable or is predicted to be
downgraded or can be upgraded and become more granular (e.g. from meter to
decimetre)**.
8\. The ADAE server sends the analytics to the consumer.
### 6.9.2 Corresponding Analytics API
This subclause provides a summary on the corresponding Analytics API for
solution #8
\- Inputs: per VAL UE or area location reports and UE mobility analytics
\- List of Data Sources:
\- Data Source #1 information: NWDAF (Nnwdaf_AnalyticsInfo service via N33, as
specified in TS 23.288 [2])
\- Data required from Data Source #1: UE mobility analytics
\- Data Source #2 information: SEAL LMS (SS_LocationMonitoring API,
SS_LocationAreaMonitoring API as specified in TS 23.434 [5])
\- Data required from Data Source #2: UE location reports and achieved
accuracy, Location reports from all UEs within a given area
\- Data Source #3 information: FLF
\- Data required from Data Source #3: fused location reports per VAL UE (via
FLS-2 as discussed in TR 23.700-96 [8])
\- Data Source #4 information: A-ADRF
\- Data required from Data Source #4: historical location accuracy statistics
for target VAL service area or VAL UE
\- Output: a predictive location accuracy sustainability or change indication,
a predictive location accuracy sustainability or change indication for a route
of the UE with the application.
### 6.9.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses Key Issue #7 and introduces location accuracy
analytics to predict possible downgrade of location accuracy for a given VAL
application. Such solution enables the VAL layer to pro-actively adapt to
predicted location accuracy changes for the VAL service (e.g. to change the
distance between VAL UEs or trigger the change of VAL UE speed if location
accuracy is changed).
This solution is technically viable and doesn\'t introduce any impact on 5GS.
This solution requires enhancements to SEAL LMS and to FLS for reporting the
accuracy as part of the location reporting.
## 6.10 Solution #9: support for service API analytics
### 6.10.1 Solution description
This solution addresses Key Issue #8.
This solution introduces service API analytics to allow a VAL server or any
other consumer (e.g. API provider) to be notified on the predicted /statistic
availability and service level for the requested service API analytics. Such
analytics may allow the API provider to perform actions to avoid service API
invocation failures or other actions like throttling/rate limitations. Also,
such analytics will support the VAL server to identify if/when to perform an
API invocation request based on the API expected status at the given area and
time horizon.
Figure 6.10.1-1 illustrates the procedure for service API analytics enablement
solution.
Pre-conditions:
1\. ADAES is registered to CCF
Figure 6.10.1 -1: Service API analytics procedure
1\. The subscribing entity (CAPIF entity, VAL server / API invoker, API
provider) sends an event subscription request to the ADAE server to receive
analytics for one or more service APIs. The event subscription request
includes the information elements as specified in Table 6.10.1-1
Table 6.10.1-1: Event subscription request
* * *
Information element Status Description Identity information M The information
to determine the identity of the subscribing entity Service API information M
The service API name or type Analytics event ID and criteria M The event
criteria include event type information relevant to the prediction or stats on
the number of failure API invocations, API availability, frequency and
occurrence of API version changes, API location changes for the target API,
etc Time Validity and horizon O Time validity of the request and time horizon
for the predictions Area of interest O Geographical or topological area for
which the subscription applies Notification reception information O The
information of the subscribing entity for receiving the notifications for the
event.
* * *
2\. Upon receiving the event subscription request from the subscribing entity,
the ADAE server checks for the relevant authorization for the event
subscription. If the authorization is successful, the ADAE server stores the
subscription information.
3\. The ADAE server sends an event subscription response indicating successful
subscription
4\. Upon sending the subscription response, the ADAE server requests to
collect API logs to be used to derive analytics and triggers API invocation
log pull request towards the CAPIF core function. The API invocation log fetch
request indicates the API (or list of APIs) for which logs are required. Based
on the ADAE server deployment, this can be performed via
CAPIF_Logging_API_Invocation API as specified in 3GPP TS 23.222 [9]. The
message may include the IEs as specified in Table 6.10.1-2.
Table 6.10.1-2: API invocation log fetch request
* * *
Information element Status Description Service API log requestor information M
Identity information of the originated application querying service API log
request ADAES ID / Security credentials M Identity information of the ADAES
Service ID or UE ID M Identity of the application service or UE for which the
API invocations apply Target API information / List of API information M
Information on target API or list of target APIs >Query information O List of
query filters such as invoker\'s ID and IP address, service API name and
version, input parameters, and invocation result > API aggregation abstraction
flag O What type of aggregation or abstraction/filtering needs to be applied
Reporting format configuration O The logs reporting configuration (frequency,
periodicity etc) Area of validity O The geographical area for which the
request applies Time or validity O The time of validity for the request
Exposure level requirement O The level of exposure requirement (e.g.
permissions on the logs like read/write/delete..) for the logs to be exposed
* * *
5\. The CCF authorizes the request and fetches the API logs from the storage
unit. CCF then sends the requested information to the ADAE server via a API
invocation log fetch response message. The message may include the IEs as
specified in Table 6.10.1.-3.
Table 6.10.1-3: API invocation log fetch response
* * *
Information element Status Description Result M Identity information of the
originated application querying service API log request Service ID or UE ID M
Identity of the application service or UE for which the API invocations apply
Target API information / List of API information M Information on target API
or list of target APIs >API Logs Collection Event O The API logs based on the
subscription event. This includes for example the number of failure API
invocations, API availability, frequency and occurrence of API version
changes, API location changes for the target API, API throttling events,
number of API invocations for a given area and time etc > reporting info O The
time and area for which the reporting applies
* * *
6\. The ADAES may also request and receive service API historical analytics
/data from A-ADRF for the corresponding service APIs.
7\. The ADAE servers authorizes and anonymizes the API logs (if not performed
by CCF) and abstracts based on exposure level. The exposure level can be known
based on pre-configuration by the OAM or based on the subscription and type of
invoker. The ADAE server then derives analytics on the target service API(s)
based on the logs received from the CCF. Such analytics are predictions/stats
for the API status based on the analytics event.
8\. The ADAE server sends the analytics as event notifications to all the
subscribing entities that have subscribed for the event matching the criteria.
If a notification reception information is available as part of the
subscribing entity event subscription, then the notification reception
information is used by the ADAE server to send event notifications to the
subscribing entity.
The notification includes the following parameters: the analytics event ID,
the service API name and/or type, stats or predictions based on abstracted or
anonymized API logs (for example number of failure API invocations, API
availability, frequency and occurrence of API version changes, API location
changes for the target API, API throttling events, number of API invocations
for a given area and time, API load statistics for a given edge network, etc),
the time and area where the reporting occurs and is valid.
### 6.10.2 Corresponding Analytics API
This subclause provides a summary on the corresponding Analytics API for
solution #9.
\- Inputs: service API logs
\- List of Data Sources:
\- Data Source #1 information: CAPIF CCF (via CAPIF_Logging_API_Invocation
API)
\- Data required from Data Source #1: Service API logs for requested APIs
\- Data Source #2 information: A-ADRF
\- Data required from Data Source #2: historical data / statistics on service
API availability and service level
\- Output: **stats or predictions for** service API(s). For example, the
failure rate of API invocations, API predicted availability, frequency and
occurrence of API version changes, API location changes for the target API,
API throttling events, number of API invocations for a given area and time,
API load statistics for a given edge data network (for edge provided service
APIs).
### 6.10.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses Key Issue #8 and introduces service API analytics to
provide stats or predict possible downgrade of performance and availability of
a service API. This solution is technically viable and doesn\'t introduce any
impact on 5GS.
# 7 Deployment scenarios
## 7.1 General
This clause provides the different deployment models for ADAE services. There
could be three deployment options:
\- ADAES can be deployed at a centralized cloud platform, and collects data
from multiple EDNs
\- ADAES can be deployed at the edge platform
\- Hierarchical ADAES deployment, where multiple ADAE services are deployed in
edge or central clouds (e.g. in hierarchical arch). Such deployment allows for
local-global analytics for system wide optimization
## 7.2 Deployment model #1: Cloud-deployed ADAES
In this deployment, as shown in Figure 7.2-1, the ADAES is centrally located
and can provide analytics services to the application and edge services
(EAS/EES, VAL server, SEAL services).
The statistics/predictions that the ADAES provides are applicable to the ADAE
server service area, which can be provided for the entire PLMN.
Figure 7.2-1 cloud deployed ADAES
## 7.3 Deployment model #2 Edge-deployed ADAES
In this deployment, as shown in Figure 7.3-1, the ADAES is located at the EDN
and provides analytics services to the EAS or other edge native applications
at the edge platform. ADAES can be deployed by the ECSP or the MNO to provide
analytics for the application or edge parameters.
The statistics/predictions that the edge deployed ADAES are applicable to the
ADAE server service areas (as shown in the example in Fig 7.2-2), which are
equivalent to the EDN service areas. Such analytics can be about the edge load
or the EAS performance and can be provided to consumers within EDN.
In this deployment the interaction between edge deployed ADAES is possible for
exchanging edge/application analytics for application mobility scenarios or
for cases when ADAES #1 and #2 service areas have overlapping coverage.
Figure 7.3-1 edge deployed ADAES
## 7.4 Deployment model #3: Hierarchical ADAES deployment
In this deployment, multiple ADAESs can be located at different EDNs/DNs and
can be deployed by the same ADAE provider. Such hierarchical deployments allow
the local -- global analytics derivation (which may be needed for improving
the analytics confidence level). The centrally deployed ADAES can also act as
ADAE analytics aggregator entity and configures the edge deployed ADAES to
derive analytics on different sub-areas.
One example is the use of analytics for the EDN#1 or EDN#2 load which will
help predicting the VAL server performance at a centrally located ADAES. Such
deployment is also applicable for ML-based analytics methods, like supervised
learning, where the centrally located ADAES acts as ML model training entity,
and the edge located ADAESs can act as ML model inference entities (using edge
data to improve the prediction accuracy).
The statistics/predictions that the edge deployed ADAES correspond to the ADAE
server service areas (as shown in the example in Fig 7.4-1), which is
equivalent to the EDN service areas. The central ADAE server covers all PLMN
area and is used to coordinate or jointly perform analytics with the
distributed ADAES. Such analytics services can be provided to consumers at the
central DN, like the VAL servers or SEAL services or even at the PLMN side
(e.g. NWDAF consuming service experience analytics).
Figure 7.4-1 hierarchical deployment of ADAES
# 8 Overall evaluation
## 8.1 General
The following clauses contain an overall evaluation of the solutions presented
in this technical report, their applicability to the identified key issues and
possible dependencies to other groups. This clause also includes a summary of
the inputs/outputs and corresponding analytics APIs to be considered for the
normative phase.
## 8.2 Solution evaluations
### 8.2.1 General
All the key issues and solutions specified in this technical report are listed
in Table 8.2.1-1. This table includes the mapping of the key issues to the
solutions and corresponding solution evaluations.
Table 8.2.1-1 Key issue and solutions
* * *
Key issues Solution Dependency on other working groups Key issue #1: Support
for application performance analytics Solution #1: Support for application
performance analytics  
Solution #2: Data Analytics Enablement  
Solution #4: Support for performance analytics for UE-to-UE sessions  
Solution #5: Service experience to support application performance analytics  
Key issue #2: Support for edge analytics enablement Solution #2: Data
Analytics Enablement  
Solution #3: Support for edge load analytics  
Key issue #3: Support for data collection for application layer analytics
Solution #2: Data Analytics Enablement  
Key issue #4: Key Issue on interactions with SEAL services Solution #2: Data
Analytics Enablement  
Solution #6: Support for slice related application data analytics  
Solution #7: Slice configuration recommendation  
Solution #8: Location accuracy analytics  
Key issue #5: Support for slice-related application data analytics Solution
#6: Support for slice related application data analytics  
Key issue #6: Support for slice configuration recommendation enablement
Solution #7: Slice configuration recommendation  
Key issue #7: support for location accuracy analytics Solution #8: Location
accuracy analytics  
Key issue #8: Support for service API capability analytics Solution #9 :
Service API analytics
* * *
More specifically,
\- For Key issue #1 (Support for application performance analytics), Solution
#1 and Solution #4 provide analytics capabilities for application performance
targeting the UE-to-network and UE-to-UE sessions respectively. Solution #2
provides a generic mechanism which can be used for data analytics enablement
and can be adopted by Solutions #1 and #4; whereas Solution #5 provides
methods for collecting/notifying service experience data from the UE and can
be seen as further elaboration of the collection/notification means based on
Solution #1. There is no identified conflict among the solutions, and the
solutions can complement each other.
\- For Key issue #2 (Support for edge analytics enablement), Solution #3
provides analytics functionality for edge load, whereas Solution #2 provides a
generic mechanism which can be used for edge load analytics enablement and can
be adopted by Solution #3 (whereas it is not mandatory). Solution #2 may
require enhancements in eEDGEAPP to allow the collection of the EES load
information.
\- For Key issue #3 (Support for data collection for application layer
analytics), Solution #2 provides a generic mechanism for data collection
enablement to be used for ADAE analytics derivation.
\- For Key issue #4 (Key Issue on interactions with SEAL services), solutions
#2, #6, #7, #8 have interactions with other SEAL services. Solution #2
provides a generic mechanism for data collection enablement to be used for
ADAE analytics derivation. Additionally, Solution #6 and #7 interact with SEAL
NSCE server for analytics derivation. Finally Solution #8 collects location
reports from SEAL LMS and may require location enhancements of SEAL LMS. There
is no identified conflict among the solutions, and the solutions can
complement each other.
\- For Key issue #5 (Support for slice-related application data analytics),
Solution #6 provides slice-related application analytics and is optionally
interacting with SEAL NSCE service (no enhancements are needed at SEAL NSCE).
\- For Key issue #6 (Support for slice configuration recommendation
enablement), Solution #7 provides a support capability for slice configuration
recommendation and is interacting with SEAL NSCE service (no enhancements are
needed at SEAL NSCE).
\- For Key issue #7 (support for location accuracy), Solution #8 provides
location accuracy analytics functionality and is optionally interacting with
SEAL LMS or FLF service (enhancements are needed at SEAL LMS if used as data
source).
\- For Key issue #8 (Support for service API capability analytics), Solution
#9 provides a support capability for service API analytics.
### 8.2.2 ADAE analytics services
Table 8.2.2-1 provides an overview of the analytics services which are
provided by ADAE layer, based on the individual solutions.
Table 8.2.2-1 ADAE analytics services
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | A | Solution | Inputs | Data | A | Type of | | nalytics | | | Co | nalytics | a | | Event | | | llection | Outputs | nalytics | | | | | Sources | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | VAL | Sol #1, | per VAL | 1. VAL | A | Pre | | server | Sol #5 | server | UE | nalytics | diction, | | per | | per | | on | st | | formance | | formance | 2. VAL | app | atistics | | a | | measu | Server | lication | | | nalytics | | rements, | | QoS | | | | | hi | 3. OAM | metrics | | | | | storical | | per VAL | | | | | da | 4. 5GC | server | | | | | ta/stats | (NWDAF, | | | | | | for VAL | NEF) | | | | | | server | | | | | | | perf | | | | | | | ormance, | | | | | | | network | | | | | | | / KPI | | | | | | | mo | | | | | | | nitoring | | | | | | | from 5GS | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | VAL | Sol #1, | per VAL | 1. VAL | A | Pr | | UE | Sol #5 | session | UE | nalytics | ediction | | /session | | per | | on | | | per | | formance | 2. VAL | app | | | formance | | meas | Server | lication | | | a | | urements | | QoS | | | nalytics | | | | metrics | | | | | | | per VAL | | | | | | | session | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | VAL | Sol #4 | per | 1. VAL | A | Pr | | UE-to-UE | | UE-to-UE | UEs | nalytics | ediction | | session | | session | | on | | | per | | per | | app | | | formance | | formance | | lication | | | a | | meas | | QoS | | | nalytics | | urements | | metric | | | | | | | change | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | UE-to-UE | | | | | | | session | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | edge | Sol #3 | edge | 1. OAM | 1. | Pre | | load | | platform | / MDAS | stats / | diction, | | a | | load | | pre | st | | nalytics | | data, | 2. 5GC | dictions | atistics | | | | EAS/EES | / NWDAF | on the | | | | | load | | EDN load | | | | | data, DN | 3. | con | | | | | per | SEALDD | ditions, | | | | | formance | server | | | | | | an | | 2. EES | | | | | alytics, | 4. EES | or EAS | | | | | UPF load | | load | | | | | a | 5. EAS | st | | | | | nalytics | | ats/pred | | | | | | 5. MEP | ictions, | | | | | | / RNIS | 3. | | | | | | | recomm | | | | | | | endation | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | o-active | | | | | | | EAS | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | trigger | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Slice | Sol #6 | per | 1. OAM | St | Pre | | related | | slice | or NSCE | atistics | diction, | | per | | meas | | / | st | | formance | | urements | 2. 5GC | pr | atistics | | a | | and | / NWDAF | ediction | | | nalytics | | an | | for the | | | | | alytics, | 3. VAL | VAL | | | | | app | UEs | app | | | | | lication | | lication | | | | | session | | QoS for | | | | | per | | one or | | | | | formance | | more | | | | | an | | r | | | | | alytics, | | equested | | | | | hi | | S-NSS | | | | | storical | | AIs/NSIs | | | | | data on | | | | | | | slice | | | | | | | inf | | | | | | | ormation | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Location | Sol #8 | UE | 1. SEAL | a | Pr | | accuracy | | mobility | LMS / | pr | ediction | | a | | an | FLS | edictive | | | nalytics | | alytics, | | location | | | | | | 2. 5GC | accuracy | | | | | UE | / NWDAF | sustai | | | | | location | | nability | | | | | reports | 3. | or | | | | | and | A-ADRF | change | | | | | achieved | | in | | | | | a | | dication | | | | | ccuracy, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | hi | | | | | | | storical | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | accuracy | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | atistics | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | target | | | | | | | VAL | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | area or | | | | | | | VAL UE | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Service | Sol #9 | Service | 1. CCF | **stats | Pre | | API | | API logs | | / | diction, | | a | | for | 2. | pre | st | | nalytics | | r | A-ADRF | dictions | atistics | | | | equested | | for** | | | | | APIs, | | service | | | | | hi | | API(s) | | | | | storical | | | | | | | data / | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | atistics | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | API | | | | | | | avai | | | | | | | lability | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | level | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Slice | Sol #7 | per | 1. SEAL | **St | St | | confi | | slice | NSCE | atistics | atistics | | guration | | meas | | for the | | | recomm | | urements | 2. OAM | network | | | endation | | and | | slice | | | | | an | 3. | confi | | | | | alytics, | NWDAF | guration | | | | | hi | | recomm | | | | | storical | 4. | endation | | | | | data on | A-ADRF | for one | | | | | slice | | or more | | | | | inf | | r | | | | | ormation | | equested | | | | | | | S- | | | | | | | NSSAIs** | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
# 9 Conclusions
## 9.1 General conclusions
This technical report fulfills the objectives of the study on application
architecture for enabling application data analytics. The report includes the
following:
1\. Definition of terms and abbreviations used in the study (clause 3);
2\. Key issues identified by the study (clause 4);
3\. Architectural requirements and detailed application architecture for
enabling Application Data Analytics (clause 5);
4\. Individual solutions addressing the key issues (clause 6);
5\. Deployment scenarios (clause 7); and
6\. Overall evaluations of all the solutions (clause 8);
## 9.2 General conclusions for normative work
For normative work in 3GPP Rel-18, it is recommended to define：
1\. Terms and abbreviations, the definition of terms and abbreviations
captured in clause 3 will be reused.
2\. Requirements on ADAE, the architectural requirements identified in clause
4 will be used as baseline architectural requirements; such requirements
include also per functionality-imposed requirements as well as requirements
for the internal ADAE architecture.
4\. Application architecture for enabling Application Data Analytics
Enablement, the architectures as specified in clause 5.3 will be used as
baseline architecture.
5\. Deployment scenarios will be considered as captured in clause. Additional
deployment models and their implications on the solutions will be considered.
6\. The definition of ADAE analytics services, data sources and corresponding
APIs as captured in clause 8.2.2 based on the concluded solutions (see clause
9.3).
## 9.2 Conclusions of solutions
The study concludes with ADAE functionality, following solution considerations
for the normative work:
1\. Following individual solutions, corresponding to the key issues, will be
considered as candidate solutions:
a. for Key issue #1 (Support for application performance analytics):
i. Solution #1 (Support for application performance analytics)
ii. Solution #2 (Data Analytics Enablement)
iii. Solution #4 (Support for performance analytics for UE-to-UE sessions)
iv. Solution #5 (Service experience to support application performance
analytics)
b. for Key issue #2 (Support for edge analytics enablement):
i. Solution #2 (Data Analytics Enablement)
ii. Solution #3 (Support for edge load analytics)
c. for Key issue #3 (Support for data collection for application layer
analytics):
i. Solution #2 (Data Analytics Enablement)
d. for Key issue #4 (Key Issue on interactions with SEAL services):
i. Solution #2 (Data Analytics Enablement)
e. for Key issue #5 (Support for slice-related application data analytics):
i. Solution #6 (Support for slice related application data analytics)
f. for Key issue #6 (Support for slice configuration recommendation
enablement):
i. Solution #7 (Slice configuration recommendation)
g. for Key issue #7 (Support for location accuracy analytics):
i. Solution #8 (Location accuracy analytics)
h. for Key issue #8 (Support for service API capability analytics):
> i. Solution #9 (Service API analytics)
#