# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The aim of this Technical Report is to study and evaluation of potential
enhancements for Access and Mobility Policy Management with the following
objective(s):
\- To study the mechanisms to provide AM policy control on RFSP Index
consistency when UE moves from 5GC to EPC, and define enhancements in R17
mechanism if needed.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G system, Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.503: \"Policy and Charging Control Framework for the 5G
System\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (EUTRAN) access\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); S1 Application Protocol (S1AP)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 38.413: \"NG-RAN; NG Application Protocol (NGAP)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[9] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; NR and NG-RAN Overall Description; Stage 2\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.288: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to
support network data analytics services\".
[11] 3GPP TS 29.563: \"Home Subscriber Server (HSS) services for interworking
with Unified Data Management (UDM); Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions of terms and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1], in
TS 23.501 [2] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1] or in TS 23.501 [2].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1], in TS 23.501 [2] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [1] or in TS 23.501 [2].
# 4 Architectural Assumptions and Principles
The architecture and framework as specified in TS 23.501 [2], TS 23.502 [3],
TS 23.503 [4], and TS 23.401 [5] are regarded as the baseline for the present
study.
Solutions shall build on the 5G interworking with EPC as in clause 4.3 and
clause 5.17 of TS 23.501 [2], System interworking procedures for 5GS to EPS as
in clause 4.11 of TS 23.502 [3], and AM policy control function description as
defined in TS 23.503 [4].
# 5 Key Issues
## 5.1 Key Issue #1: RFSP Index consistency when UE moves from 5GC to EPC
### 5.1.1 Description
Currently, most operators run 4G and 5G merged network. To promote 5G service,
the subscription data of UE may be set to 5G access first, i.e. the subscribed
RFSP Index is of the value of \"5G has higher priority than 4G\". In some
scenarios, the PCF may adjust the RFSP index to direct the UE from 5G to 4G
according to dynamic network situations, for example:
\- When network congestion prediction received from NWDAF, the PCF may move
some of the \"5G prioritized\" UEs which consuming low value applications to
4G access.
\- According to the request from AF, the PCF may move the requested UE(s) from
5G to 4G.
When UE registers to EPC, the MME chooses the RFSP Index in use based on the
subscribed RFSP Index, the locally configured operator\'s policies and the UE
related context information available at the MME. If the EPC decides the UE
needs to go back to 5G, the MME provides \"5G prioritized\" RFSP Index to eNB.
To avoid network issue, e.g. the ping-pong issue, where the 5GC keeps sending
the UE to EPC based on authorized RFSP Index from PCF, while the MME only has
the subscribed RFSP Index and kick the UE in the above scenarios back to 5G
immediately, this key issue will study AM policy control on RFSP Index
consistency when UE moves from 5GC to EPC:
\- Whether the current interworking procedure supports MME received the RFSP
Index in use from 5GC? If no, what enhancements is needed.
\- If the MME get the RFSP Index in used in handover procedure or idle mode
mobility procedure, how and when it resumes to the subscription RFSP Index.
\- When UE is under EPC, should MME receive any update of RFSP Index from 5GC
and how.
NOTE: The KI covers EPC and 5GC interworking for both with N26-based and
without N26 interface architecture.
# 6 Solutions
## 6.0 Mapping of Solutions to Key Issues
Table 6.0-1: Mapping of Solutions to Key Issues
Solution # Solution Title Key Issue #
* * *
1 Use N26 to provide PCF-updated RFSP Index from 5GC to MME 1 2 Provide
Authorized RFSP in EPC via UDM/HSS, during 5GS to EPS mobility 1 3 Enforcing
RFSP index authorized by PCF in EPC via N26 1 4 Enforcing RFSP index
authorized by PCF in EPC without N26 interface 1 5 Authorized RFSP index
provisioning from 5GC to MME without N26 interface 1 6 Provide updated RFSP
when UE is already moved to EPS with N26 interface 1 7 Provide updated RFSP
when UE is already moved to EPS without N26 interface 1 8 MME-enhancement
solution on KI#1 for 5GS to EPS mobility without N26 interface 1 9 PCF-updated
RFSP Index to MME via HSS 1 10 Provide RFSP Index via N26 interface when the
UE moves from 5GC to EPC 1
## 6.1 Solution #1: Use N26 to provide PCF-updated RFSP Index from 5GC to MME
### 6.1.1 Description
This solution is to allow MME to receive RFSP Index update from PCF when UE
moves from 5G to 4G in N26-based interworking architecture. When MME is able
to receive updated RFSP index from PCF as AMF, the RFSP index in use will be
consistent when UE moves between 5G and 4G. This is a solution for N26-based
interworking.
When N26-based interworking architecture applies, AMF and MME use N26
interface to transfer mobility management message. The parameters, subscribed
RFSP index and RFSP index in use, are transferred in:
\- Forward Relocation Request as in 5GS to EPS handover procedures using N26
interface, or
\- Context Response as in 5GS to EPS Idle mode mobility using N26 interface.
Therefore, this solution proposes that, when UE moves from 5G to 4G, the old
AMF should keep or defer to terminate the AM association of the UE within a
reasonable period, i.e. AM Policy Association maintenance timer. When the PCF
is triggered to update the RFSP Index, the updated RFSP index is delivered to
the old AMF in the existing AM Policy association, and the AMF will transfer
it to new MME use the N26 interface in a GTPv2 message.
For example, a UE may have subscribed RFSP Index of 5G prioritization in
subscription data stored in HSS/UDM.
If a UE initially attaches to 5GC with AM Policy association established:
1\. If something triggers the PCF to change the RFSP Index as of 4G
prioritization, the UE will moves from 5GC to EPC. In handover or idle mode
mobility procedure, the old AMF sends the PCF-updated RFSP Index, i.e. the
RFSP Index in use, to the new MME using N26 interface.
2\. With the received RFSP Index in use, the new MME may, as local logic,
ignore the subscribed RFSP Index and keep the RFSP index in use as 4G
prioritization. The UE will stay in 4G and will not be send right back to 5G
as the subscribed RFSP Index as 5G prioritization. The old AMF may keep the
established AM association or defer the AM policy association termination for
the UE to receive further update on RFSP Index update from PCF, just as the
old AMF will keep UE context for some time after the UE deregister. The
duration value of this timer should be pre-configured at the AMF. And the AMF
should subscribe to HSS/UDM for UE\'s serving MME update notification in case
the UE moves further to another MME.
3\. Later but before the AM Policy Association maintenance timer runs out,
based on some trigger, the PCF may update UE\'s RFSP index in order to direct
the UE back from EPC to 5GC. The update RFSP index is deliver to the old AMF.
Then the old AMF transfers it to the serving MME the UE register to through
N26 interface. Then the serving MME updates the RFSP index in use and triggers
the UE move back to 5G using current mechanism.
4\. When the AM Policy Association maintenance timer runs out, the old AMF
initiates the AM Policy Association termination and unsubscribe to the HSS/UDM
for further change on serving MME. This should be no later than the old AMF to
release the UE context.
5\. As AM Policy Association maintenance timer running in the old AMF, an
equal timer should runs in the serving MME. The initial value of the timer may
be pre-configured at the MME and no less than the value of the AM policy
Association maintenance timer at the AMF. When the MME aware that the timer
runs out, the MME will be free to select the RFSP Index in use, e.g. the
subscription value, as in current specification. Also, when handover happens
between MMEs, the remaining value of the timer should also be transfer as UE
context.
If a UE initially attaches to EPC, or the AM policy association is invalid,
that is, no exist AM policy association in PCF for that UE, the MME may update
UE\'s RFSP Index according to current mechanism. The MME may decide to direct
UE to 5GC by changing the RFSP Index. In some cases, when the EPS to 5GS
procedure is complete and soon after a new AM association is established, the
PCF may decides the UE should be in 4G. Then the EPS to 5GS procedure as
described above may take place. With the proposed mechanism, the PCF selected
RFSP Index will take over and the UE will not ping-pong between 4G and 5G.
### 6.1.2 Procedures
Figure 6.1.2 depicts the procedure of propose solution of providing PCF-
updated RFSP Index update from 5GC to MME with N26 interface.
Figure 6.1.2: PCF-updated RFSP Index update from 5GC to MME in N26-base
architecture
Step 1 and Step 2 follow the procedure already defined in TS 23.502 [3]. The
change is: the AMF, where the UE originally register to, will not initiate the
AM Policy Association termination procedure with the PCF when it received the
Nudm_UECM_DeregistrationNotification from HSS/UDM as in clause 4.11.1.5.3 of
TS 23.502 [3] (TAU of handover) nor clause 4.11.1.3.2 of TS 23.502 [3] (Idle
mode mobility). But the AM Policy Association maintenance timer starts to run
in AMF when the Nudm_UECM_DeregistrationNotification receives. A timer also
start to runs in target MME1 to indicate it should wait for further input from
AMF on RFSP Index update.
Step 3, the old AMF subscribes to HSS/UDM for the notification in case of UE
S1-handover happens to insure the old AMF always know the serving MME of the
UE.
Step 4 and Step 5, the PCF is trigger to update the RFSP Index and notify to
the old AMF according to current description in TS 23.503 [4].
Step 6 and Step 7 are the proposed new mobility management messages using N26
interface, in which the AMF transfer the updated RFSP index to MME1 and MME1
reply with an acknowledgement.
If before the AM policy association maintenance timer runs out, S1-handover or
TAU happens in EPC:
Step 8, the UE deregisters from MME1 and register to MME2 in EPC and the
remaining of the timer is transfer from MM1 to MM2 as part of UE context.
Step 9, HSS/UDM notifies the old AMF with MME2. The RFSP index in use will be
sent from MME1 to MME2 as in current specification.
For further RFSP Index update from PCF as in step 4, the old AMF transfer the
updated RFSP index to MM2 as in step 5, 6 and 7.
When the AM Policy Association maintenance timer runs out, the AMF initiates
the AM Policy Association termination as in TS 23.502 [3] and unsubscribe to
HSS/UDM for further serving MME change notification. When the timer at the MME
runs out, the MME could reselect an RFSP Index value as defined in current
specification.
Or, if the AMF receives from HSS/UDM that the UE is not registered to any MME,
i.e. deregistered from EPC, the AMF should initiates the AM Policy Association
termination before the timer runs out.
### 6.1.3 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
The solution has the following impacts:
AMF:
\- When a UE is moving from 5GS to EPS, and HSS/UDM invokes
Nudm_UECM_DeregistrationNotification to notify the AMF associated with 3GPP
access with reason as 5GS to EPS Mobility, the AMF should not initiate the AM
Policy Association termination.
\- The AMF should maintain a timer for AM Policy Association maintenance in
case of 5GS to EPS Mobility. And within that timer, the AMF subscribes to
HSS/UDM for UE\'s serving MME update notification and transfer the updated
RFSP Index to UE\'s serving MME when it is receive from PCF. When the timer
runs out, the AMF initiate the AM Policy Association termination and
unsubscribe to the HSS/UDM for further notification.
\- New procedure is needed for AMF to inform the MME of the updated RFSP after
UE moves to EPS.
MME:
\- The MME should maintain a timer after the 5GS to EPS handover procedure or
idle mode mobility complete within which it is able to receive and apply the
updated RFSP Index from AMF.
\- When S1-handover or TAU happens at EPC, the remaining value of the timer
should be transfer from the source MME to the target MME as part of UE
context.
\- New procedure is needed for the MME to receive AMF provided RFSP index
updated if the MME does not know the AMF.
HSS/UDM:
\- New service needs to be defined to allow AMF to get UE\'s serving MME
information.
\- When HSS and UDM are deploy separately, new services are needed to allow
HSS to provide serving MME information to UDM, then UDM to provide serving MME
information to AMF. In a combined UDM+HSS deployment, service between HSS and
UDM is not needed or handled in implementation specific way.
N26:
\- New mobility management message are defined to support the RFSP Index
transfer from AMF to MME.
N8 (& UDICOM interface if used)
\- New event exposed to repost the change of MME to AMF.
## 6.2 Solution #2: Provide Authorized RFSP in EPC via UDM/HSS, during 5GS to
EPS mobility
### 6.2.1 Description
The solution address KI#1 and applies to 5GC to EPC interworking when:
\- 5GS to EPS handover using N26 interface.
\- 5GS to EPS Idle mode mobility using N26 interface.
\- 5GS to EPS Mobility without N26 interface.
The PCF, in 5GC, may adjust the RFSP index to request RAN to direct the UE
from 5G to 4G according to dynamic network situations, for example:
\- Based on various analytics and prediction result from NWDAF (e.g. network
congestion in 5G) the PCF may request to move some of the \"5G prioritized\"
UEs to 4G access.
\- According to a request from AF, the PCF may request RAN to move the
requested UE(s) from 5G to 4G.
When the AMF receives \"Authorized RFSP\" in AM Policy Establishment or
modification from the PCF, the AMF notifies the HSS (via UDM) about the PCF
decision to change the RFSP value and provides the new \"Authorized RFSP\".
The notification can be sent by AMF based on implicit subscription to notify
the UDM (based on operator policies and local configuration) or alternatively,
the UDM could provide the notification endpoints to the AMF during the UE
registration procedure. Sending \"Authorized RFSP\" to UDM is only required
when N26 mobility does not apply in the local (serving) 5GS network.
Otherwise, the AMF can send the \"Authorized RFSP\" over N26.
When the UE moves from 5GS to EPS, if the HSS has received the \"Authorized
RFSP\", it shall provide both \"Authorized RFSP\" and \"Subscribed RFSP\"
values to the MME. The MME sends the \"Authorized RFSP\" as the RFSP to use to
the eNB, to avoid any possible ping-pong issue of continuously moving the UE
between the 4G and 5G access.
The MME may continue to use the \"Authorized RFSP\" over the \"Subscribed
RFSP\" for a certain duration of time based on locally configured or operator
determined validity conditions (e.g. a configured duration of time or for the
current registration time etc.). During inter MME handover, the source MME may
provide the additional information on \"Authorized RFSP\" and its validity
condition to the target MME. When the validity condition expires, the MME may
then send the \"Subscribed RFSP\" as the RFSP to use to the eNB.
### 6.2.2 Procedures
Figure 6.2.2-1: **Procedure to** Provide Authorized RFSP in EPC via UDM/HSS,
during 5GS to EPS mobility
The detailed procedure is described in Figure 6.2.2-1.
1\. The UE registers to 5GC via NG-RAN. AMF establishes AM Policy association
with PCF as in clause 4.16.1.2 of TS 23.502 [3].
2\. The PCF decides to adjust the RFSP index to direct the UE from 5G to 4G.
The PCF decision could be based on various inputs. For example:
\- Based on various analytics and prediction result from NWDAF (e.g. network
congestion in 5G).
\- According to the request from AF.
3\. The PCF provides the new \"Authorized RFSP\" for the UE by initiating AM
Policy Modification procedure as in clause 4.16.2.2 of TS 23.502 [3].
4\. The AMF provides the Authorized RFSP as the RFSP to use to the gNB by
initiating a UE CONEXT MODIFICATION procedure as in clause 8.3.4 of TS 38.413
[7].
5\. If N26 does not apply and the AMF identifies that the \"Authorized RFSP\"
is different than the \"Subscribed RFSP\", then the AMF notifies the UDM on
the \"Authorized RFSP\" received from PCF. If the UDM and HSS are deployed
separately then the UDM further notifies the \"Authorized RFSP\" to the HSS.
In a combined UDM+HSS deployment this step (5b in Figure 6.2.2-1) is not
needed or handled in implementation specific way.
6-7.When the UE was guided to 4G access, the UE performs TAU or Attach
procedure, during which the HSS provides \"Authorized RFSP\" to the MME
serving the UE, along with the \"Subscribed RFSP\".
8\. The MME stores the \"Subscribed RFSP\", the \"Authorized RFSP\" and a
validity condition for the \"Authorized RFSP\" in the UE context in MME. The
validity condition may be locally configured at the MME based on operator
policy and may contain a duration for which the \"Authorized RFSP\" is
applicable (e.g. timer or current registration etc.). During inter MME
handover, the source MME also provides the \"Authorized RFSP\" and the
validity condition to the target MME.
9\. The MME may choose to continue using the \"Authorized RFSP\" instead of
deriving the RFSP Index based on the subscribed RFSP Index. The MME provides
the \"Authorized RFSP\" as the RFSP to use to the eNB in UE CONTEXT
MODIFICATION procedure as in clause 8.3.4 of TS 36.413 [6].
10\. When the validity condition is expired the MME may review the RFSP index
and may choose the RFSP Index to use based on the subscribed RFSP Index, the
locally configured operator\'s policies and the UE related context information
available at the MME.
11\. The MME provides the RFSP to use to the eNB in UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION
procedure as in clause 8.3.4 of TS 36.413 [6].
### 6.2.3 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
This solution may have the following impacts to existing entities and
interfaces:
\- AMF: AMF creates subscription for notification of \"Authorized RFSP\" to
UDM/HSS. AMF notifies the \"Authorized RFSP\" received from PCF to the UDM/HSS
\- UDM: When UDM and HSS are deployed separately, the UDM shall create an
implicit subscription to send \"Authorized RFSP\" to HSS. When the USM
receives \"Authorized RFSP\" for a UE from the AMF, it shall send a
notification to the HSS.
\- HSS: Provides the \"Authorized RFSP\" along with \"Subscribed RFSP\" for a
UE to the MME. The \"Authorized RFSP\" may be provided during Update Location
or as a Standalone Insert Subscriber Data operation.
\- MME: MME stores the \"Authorized RFSP\" along with its validity conditions
in the UE context in MME. As long as the validity condition is satisfied the
MME uses \"Authorized RFSP\" over \"Subscribed RFSP\". The MME provides the
\"Authorized RFSP\" and its validity conditions to target MME during inter MME
mobility. When the validity condition is expired the MME decides to use
\"Subscribed RFSP\".
## 6.3 Solution #3: Enforcing RFSP index authorized by PCF in EPC via N26
### 6.3.1 Description
The solution address KI#1 for deployment scenario with N26.
In this solution,
\- The assumption is that PCF is aware of the mapping from RFSP index to cell
selection and the RAT/Frequency Priorities which is typically known by RAN
(see Annex I of TS 36.300 [8] and Annex D in TS 38.300 [9]). Note that RFSP
index is also known as \"SPID\" (Subscriber Profile ID) for RAT/Frequency
Priority.
\- When the PCF provides authorized RFSP Index, if the PCF determines that the
change of authorized RFSP index value indicates a change from prioritizing 5G
access to prioritizing 4G access for the UE, the PCF includes a validity time
(working name \"RFSPinUseExpiryTime\") indicating a time by which this RFSP
index will take effect if the UE moves to EPS. As specified in clause 6.1.1.3
of TS 23.503 [4], PCF may use the network analytics on \"Service Experience\"
for an Application Identifier, \"any RAT type\" and/or \"any Frequency value\"
to determine the \"authorized RFSP index\" value for the UE when running this
application. Furthermore, as specified in clause 6.4.3 of TS 23.288 [10], the
\"Service Experience\" analytics including a Validity period for the
Application service experience analytics. So, it is possible for the PCF to
determine the \"authorized RFSP index\" together with a validity time i.e.
RFSPinUseExpiryTime.
\- When the AMF receives the authorized RFSP Index from the PCF with the
validity time, the AMF stores also the validity time.
\- If the NG-RAN triggers handover before \"RFSPinUseExpiryTime\", the AMF
will include the new parameter \"RFSPinUseExpiryTime\" in Forward Relocation
Request to the MME. If the NG-RAN triggers release with redirect, the UE will
perform Tracking Area Request procedure, and the AMF will include new
parameter \"RFSPinUseExpiryTime\" in Context Response if time is before
\"RFSPinUseExpiryTime\".
\- When the MME receives RFSPinUseExpiryTime, the MME will use \"RFSP index in
use\". When the time indicated in RFSPinUseExpiryTime is due, the MME will do
RFSP index re-evaluation as specified in clause 4.3.6 of TS 23.401 [5].
NOTE 1: If the UE is not directed to EPS by NG-RAN before the time indicated
in RFSPinUseExpiryTime is due, no action is needed in AMF.
NOTE 2: When the 5GS to EPS mobility procedure is completed, the MME does not
interact with the old AMF as in legacy.
### 6.3.2 Procedures
Clause 4.11.1.2.1 of TS 23.502 [3] (5GS to EPS handover using N26 interface)
is reused with the following addition:
\- In step 3 when AMF sends Forward Relocation Request to the MME, the AMF
additionally includes a timestamp indicating to the MME that \"RFSP index in
use\" should be used before the indicated time is due. When the indicated time
is due, the MME re-evaluates the RFSP index as specified in clause 4.3.6 of TS
23.401 [5].
Clause 4.11.1.3.2 of TS 23.502 [3] (5GS to EPS Idle mode mobility using N26
interface) is reused with the following addition:
\- In step 6 when AMF sends Context Response to the MME, the AMF additionally
includes a timestamp indicating to the MME that \"RFSP index in use\" should
be used before indicated time is due. When the indicated time is due, the MME
re-evaluates the RFSP index as specified in clause 4.3.6 of TS 23.401 [5].
If the UE moves further from one MME to another MME before the time indicated
in RFSPinUseExpiryTime is due, the old MME includes the RFSPinUseExpiryTime in
Forward Relocation Request or Context Response from the old MME to the new
MME.
### 6.3.3 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
Impact on interface:
N15: Introduce additional IE for validity time indicating the due time of
\"RFSP index in use\" if the UE moves to EPS.
N26 and S10: Introduce additional IE for validity time (working name
\"RFSPinUseExpiryTime\") indicating the due time of \"RFSP index in use\" in
Forward Relocation Request and Context Response.
Impact on PCF:
\- Include additional validity time when PCF determines that the change of
RFSP index value indicates a change from prioritizing 5G access to
prioritizing 4G access for the UE
Impact on AMF:
\- When the AMF receives the additional validity time (in the form of due
time), the AMF stores it in the UE Context. When mobility to EPS happens, the
AMF also includes the validity time in the following GTP-C v2 messages
informing the MME that \"RFSP index in use\" should be used before the
indicated time is due:
\- Forward Relocation Request.
\- Context Response.
Impact on MME:
\- When receiving the new timer in Forward Relocation Request, or Context
Response, the MME will store it in the UE Context and use \"RFSP index in
use\" received from the AMF or an old MME. When the indicated time is due, the
MME will re-evaluate the RFSP index as specified in clause 4.3.6 of TS 23.401
[5].
## 6.4 Solution 4: Enforcing RFSP index authorized by PCF in EPC without N26
interface
### 6.4.1 Description
The solution addresses KI#1 is intended for the following interworking
scenario (but could be applied to interworking scenario with N26 deployment):
\- 5GS to EPS Mobility without N26 interface.
The PCF, in 5GC, may adjust the RFSP index to request RAN to direct the UE
from 5G to 4G according to dynamic network situations, for example:
\- Based on various analytics and prediction result from NWDAF (e.g. network
congestion in 5G), the PCF may request to move some of the \"5G prioritized\"
UEs to 4G access.
\- According to a request from AF, the PCF may request RAN to move the
requested UE(s) from 5G to 4G.
The PCF provides additional validity time if the PCF determines that the
change of authorized RFSP index value indicates a change from prioritizing 5G
access to prioritizing 4G access for the UE.
When the AMF receives \"Authorized RFSP\" and validity time in AM Policy
Establishment or modification from the PCF, the AMF, the AMF may provision the
new parameter\" RFSP index in use\" (which is applicable when UE in EPS and is
set to the authorized RFSP index from PCF) to the UDM using existing
Nudm_ParameterProvision_Update service operation. The AMF also includes new
parameter of validity time, indicating the time by which the RFSP index in use
will take effect when the UE moves to EPS. If interfaces for user data
interworking, coexistence and migration are deployed is deployed, then the UDM
provisions new \" RFSP index in use\" and the validity time to the HSS using
new service operation Nhss_ParameterProvision_Update.
When the UE moves from 5GS to EPS, if the HSS has received the \"RFSP index in
use\" and validity time is not due, the HSS provides both \" RFSP index in
use\" (together with validity time) and \"Subscribed RFSP\" values to the MME.
The MME sets the \"RFSP index in use\" as the RFSP index to use to the eNB, to
avoid any possible ping-pong issue of the UE moving between the 4G and 5G.
The MME continues to use the \"RFSP index in use\" over the \"Subscribed
RFSP\" until the validity time is due. When the validity time is due, the MME
re-evaluates the RFSP index as specified in clause 4.3.6 of TS 23.401 [5].
If the UE moves further to another MME, the source/old MME provides \"RFSP
index in use\" as in existing procedure and includes additionally the validity
time if its indicated time is not due. When the validity time for the received
RFSP in Useis due, the new MME re-evaluates RFSP index as specified in clause
4.3.6 of TS 23.401 [5] and provides the updated RFSP index to the eNB.
If the MME does not support the new parameters for \"RFSP index in use\" and
related validity time, the HSS modifies sends to MME the Subscribed RFSP index
set to the value of RFSP index in use. When the validity time is due, the HSS
modifies the Subscribed RFSP index back to the originally subscribed value and
sends it to MME.
### 6.4.2 Procedures
The detailed procedure is described in Figure 6.4.2-1.
Figure 6.4.2-1: **Procedure to** Enforcing RFSP index authorized by PCF in EPC
without N26 interface
1\. The UE registers to 5GC via NG-RAN. AMF establishes AM Policy association
with PCF as in clause 4.16.1.2 of TS 23.502 [3].
2\. The PCF decides to adjust the RFSP index to direct the UE from 5G to 4G.
The PCF decision could be based on various inputs. For example:
\- Based on various analytics and prediction result from NWDAF (e.g. network
congestion in 5G).
\- According to the request from AF.
3\. The PCF provides the new \"Authorized RFSP\" for the UE by initiating AM
Policy Modification procedure as in clause 4.16.2.2 of TS 23.502 [3]. The PCF
provides additional validity time as the PCF determines that the change of
authorized RFSP index value indicates a change from prioritizing 5G access to
prioritizing 4G access for the UE.
4\. The AMF set the Authorized RFSP as the RFSP index in use which is provided
to the gNB in _Subscriber Profile ID_ _for RAT/Frequency priority IE_ in a UE
CONEXT MODIFICATION procedure as in clause 8.3.4 of TS 38.413 [7].
5\. If N26 does not apply, and the AMF, then the AMF provisions \"RFSP index
in use\" (set to the \"Authorized RFSP\" received from PCF) (which is
applicable when UE is in EPS) and validity time to the UDM using existing
Nudm_ParameterProvision_Update service operation. If the UDM and HSS are
deployed separately then the UDM further provisions the \"RFSP index in use\"
to the HSS using new service operation Nhss_ParameterProvision_Update. In a
combined UDM+HSS deployment this step (step 5b in Figure 6.4.2-1) is not
needed or handled in implementation specific way. In
Nudm_ParameterProvision_Update service operation, the AMF includes
additionally a validity time indicating that the \"RFSP index in use\" will
take effect in EPS until the indicated time is due. The validity time will be
included in Nhss_ParameterProvision_Update as well.
6\. The UE is guided to 4G access,
**Case-1:** If MME is upgraded and supports new parameters \"RFSP index in
use\" and \"validity time\", steps 7-8 are performed
7\. The UE performs TAU or Attach procedure, during which the HSS provides
\"RFSP index in use\" together with the validity time to the MME serving the
UE, along with the \"Subscribed RFSP\".
NOTE: For the MME not upgraded, it is assumed that the MME use the subscribed
RFSP index towards the eNB.
8\. The MME stores the \"Subscribed RFSP index\", the \"RFSP index in use\"
and a validity time for the \"RFSP index in use\" in the UE context in MME.
During inter MME handover, the source MME also provides the validity condition
to the target MME.
Continue at step 9.
**Case-2:** If MME is not upgraded thus does not supports new parameters
\"RFSP index in use\" and \"validity time\", steps 7a-8a are performed
7a. The UE performs TAU or Attach procedure, the HSS sends the subscribed RFSP
index set to the value of RFSP index in use.
8a. MME chooses RFSP index as specified in clause 4.3.6 of TS 23.401 [5]
assuming that MME always chooses subscribed RFSP index.
9\. The MME provides the \"RFSP index\" in Subscriber Profile ID for
RAT/Frequency priority IE to the eNB in UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION procedure as
in clause 8.3.4 of TS 36.413 [6].
**Case-1:** If MME is upgraded and supports new parameters \"RFSP index in
use\" and \"validity time\", step 10 is performed:
10\. When the validity time is due, the MME may re-evaluate the RFSP index as
specified in clause 4.3.6 of TS 23.401 [5]. When the validity time is due, the
\"RFSP index in use\" is locally removed from the UDM/HSS.
Continue at step 11.
**Case-2:** If MME is not upgraded thus does not supports new parameters
\"RFSP index in use\" and \"validity time\", steps 10a-10b are performed:
10a. When the validity time is due, the HSS restore the subscribed RFSP index
and provides the restored subscribed RFSP index to MME.
10b. The MME re-evaluates the RFSP index in use as specified in clause 4.3.6
of TS 23.401 [5].
11\. The MME provides the updated RFSP in use in Subscriber Profile ID for
RAT/Frequency priority IE to the eNB in UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION procedure as
in clause 8.3.4 of TS 36.413 [6].
### 6.4.3 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
This solution may have the following impacts to existing entities and
interfaces:
AMF:
\- AMF invokes existing Nudm_ParameterProvision_Update service operation to
UDM but with new parameter \"RFSP index in use\" (applicable only when UE is
in EPS) and validity time by which the RFSP index in use is valid.
UDM:
\- When UDM and HSS are deployed separately, the UDM invokes new service
operation Nudm_ParameterProvision_Update with \"RFSP index in use\" and
validity time.
HSS/UDR:
\- Provides the \"RFSP index in use\", validity time along with \"Subscribed
RFSP\" for a UE to the MME in Update Location or as a Standalone Insert
Subscriber Data operation.
\- The \"RFSP index in use\" and its validity time are stored in the UDR.
\- Determine whether MME supports the new feature requiring \"RFSP index in
use\" and validity time.
MME:
\- MME stores the \"RFSP index in use\" along with its validity conditions in
the UE context in MME. As long as the validity condition is satisfied the MME
uses \"RFSP index in use\" over \"Subscribed RFSP\". The MME provides the
\"RFSP index in use\" as today and additionally includes its validity
conditions to target MME during inter MME mobility. When the validity
condition is expired, the MME re-evaluates the RFSP index as specified in
clause 4.3.6 of TS 23.401 [5].
## 6.5 Solution #5: Authorized RFSP index provisioning from 5GC to MME without
N26 interface
### 6.5.1 Description
In the current interworking procedures from 5G to 4G, when the UE moves from
5G to 4G, the PCF should provide the \"authorized RFSP index\" to the MME.
However, after the UE moves from 5G to 4G, all the UE\'s context in the 5G
side should be released (including the AM policy association for the UE
between AMF and PCF), so the PCF cannot update the RFSP index for the UE when
it finds that the \"authorized RFSP index\" is not valid, which resulted in
that the MME does not know when it should in turn to use the \"subscribed RFSP
index\" instead of the \"authorized RFSP index\".
As specified in clause 6.1.1.3 of TS 23.503 [4], PCF may use the network
analytics on \"Service Experience\" for an Application Identifier, \"any RAT
type\" and/or \"any Frequency value\" to determine the \"authorized RFSP
index\" value for the UE when running this application. Furthermore, as
specified in clause 6.4.3 of TS 23.288 [10], the \"Service Experience\"
analytics including a Validity period for the Application service experience
analytics. So, it is possible for the PCF to determine the \"authorized RFSP
index\" together with a Validity period.
When N26 interface is not supported, the authorized RFSP index and the
Validity period can be provided by the PCF to the UDM/HSS via AMF during the
without N26-based interworking procedures, then MME obtains the authorized
RFSP index and the Validity period from the HSS.
The MME continues to use the \"Authorized RFSP\" over the \"Subscribed RFSP\"
during the Validity period. When the Validity period expires, the MME may then
send the \"Subscribed RFSP\" as the RFSP to use to the eNB.
### 6.5.2 Procedures
Figure 6.5.2-1 depicts the procedure of propose solution of providing
\"authorized RFSP index\" provisioning from 5GC to MME without N26 interface.
Figure 6.5.2-1: \"authorized RFSP index\" provisioning from 5GC to MME in
without N26-base architecture
The overall procedure re-uses the 5GS to EPS mobility without N26 interface as
defined in TS 23.502 [3]. The change is:
\- Step 1 and step 2. PCF determines the \"authorized RFSP index\" together
with the Validity period e.g. based on the \"Service Experience\" analytics
from NWDAF and provides these information to AMF.
\- Step 3. If N26 does not apply and the AMF identifies that the \"Authorized
RFSP index\" is different than the \"Subscribed RFSP\", then the AMF notifies
the UDM on the \"Authorized RFSP index\" and the Validity period received from
PCF. If the UDM and HSS are deployed separately then the UDM further notifies
the \"Authorized RFSP\" and the Validity period to the HSS by triggering an
Nhss_UEContextManagement service operation as defined in TS 29.563 [11]. In a
combined UDM+HSS deployment this step is not needed or handled in
implementation specific way.
The MME continues to use the \"Authorized RFSP index\" over the \"Subscribed
RFSP index\" for the Validity period. When the Validity period expires, the
MME may then send the \"Subscribed RFSP\" as the RFSP to use to the eNB.
### 6.5.3 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
The solution has the following impacts:
PCF:
\- PCF should determine the \"authorized RFSP index\" together with the
Validity period e.g. based on the \"Service Experience\" analytics from NWDAF.
\- PCF provides the \"authorized RFSP index\" together with the Validity
period to AMF during 5GS to EPS mobility without N26 interface.
AMF:
\- When N26 interface is not supported, AMF provides the \"authorized RFSP
index\" together with the Validity period to UDM during the 5GS to EPS
mobility without N26 interface.
UDM:
\- When N26 interface is not supported, UDM receives the \"authorized RFSP
index\" together with the Validity period from AMF during the 5GS to EPS
mobility without N26 interface. Optionally, the UDM further provides the
\"authorized RFSP index\" together with the Validity period to HSS when a
combined UDM+HSS is not deployed.
MME:
\- When N26 interface is not supported, MME receives the \"authorized RFSP
index\" together with the Validity period from HSS.
\- The MME continues to use the \"Authorized RFSP\" over the \"Subscribed
RFSP\" for the Validity period. When the Validity period expires, the MME may
then send the \"Subscribed RFSP\" as the RFSP to use to the eNB.
## 6.6 Solution #6: Provide updated RFSP when UE is already moved to EPS with
N26 interface
### 6.6.1 Description
This paper reuse the concept of solution 1 to implement AM policy association
maintenance timer to send any further updated RFSP and updated validity timer
(as mentioned in solution 3) from AMF to MME when UE is already moved to EPS.
When UE moves to EPS, MME registers its address in UDM+HSS and then UDM+HSS
shall maintain UE\'s 5G registration state temporarily for some duration i.e.
AM Policy Association maintenance timer if the request from MME has some new
indication (MME will provide this indication for only those UEs for which it
has received validity condition along with RFSP Index In use from AMF). It
provides this timer while sending deregistration notification to AMF so that
both AMF and UDM+HSS will be in sync in holding this temporary registration
state for the UE. AMF after receiving this deregistration notification shall
behave as per the clause 4.2.2.2.2 step 14d of TS 23.501 [2] except for the
termination of AM policy towards PCF for the duration mentioned by UDM. The
AMF shall send the AM Policy Association maintenance timer to PCF while
sending to delete the AM policy. PCF after receiving this AM Policy delete
message shall defer the policy termination for the received time period and
only send the updated policy related to UE's RFSP Index. If the implementation
specific (guard timer) is running at AMF then AMF shall stop this timer and
start the AM Policy Association maintenance timer received in deregistration
notification from UDM.
NOTE 1: The AM Policy Association maintenance timer should be maintained at
only AMF or at both UDM and AMF is for evaluation.
NOTE 2: The exact indication from MME to UDM+HSS will be decided during
normative phase.
During this time period based on some trigger (e.g. no more congestion in
5GC), the PCF may update UE\'s RFSP index or validity timer (to extend the
timer if congestion still persist in 5G) in order to direct the UE back from
EPC to 5GC. The update RFSP index is deliver to the AMF. AMF then will query
the MME address from UDM+HSS and transfer the updated RFSP to the latest MME
(e.g. If UE has been moved from one MME to another while in EPS) through N26
interface.
During this time period if UE moves back to 5G because of some reasons (e.g.
mobility or radio conditions) and gets registered through a new AMF in 5G,
then UDM+HSS will inform old AMF and remove old AMF address which was stored
temporarily. When the AM Policy Association maintenance timer expires, the AMF
clears the UE context, PCF terminates the AM Policy and UDM+HSS removes the
AMF address which was stored temporarily.
If the AM policy Association maintenance timer expired while UE is in EPS then
if there is a need for UE to bring back to 5GS, subscribed RFSP index can be
modified in HSS and sent to MME so that MME redirect UE to 5GS.
### 6.6.2 Procedures
Figure 6.6.2-1: **Updated RFSP from 5GS to EPS with N26 interface**
The detailed procedure is described in Figure 6.6.2-1.
1\. The UE registers to 5GC via NG-RAN. AMF establishes AM Policy association
with PCF as in clause 4.16.1.2 of TS 23.502 [3].
2\. The PCF decides to adjust the RFSP index to direct the UE from 5G to 4G.
The PCF decision could be based on various inputs. For example:
\- Based on various analytics and prediction result from NWDAF (e.g. network
congestion in 5G).
\- According to the request from AF.
The PCF provides the new \"Authorized RFSP\" and validity timer for the UE by
initiating AM Policy Modification procedure as in clause 4.16.2.2 of TS 23.502
[3].
3\. UE moves to EPS via E-UTRAN
4\. AMF sends the \"RFSP Index in use\" and validity timer to MME
5\. The MME sends the ULR with single registration indication along with one
new indication and register its address in UDM+HSS.
6\. The UDM+HSS starts the \"AM Policy Association maintenanceTimer\" and
maintain the UE\'s 5G registration state and provides this timer in the
Nudm_UECM_DeregistrationNotification to AMF.
7\. The MME stores and use the received \"RFSP Index in use\" and validity
timer from AMF.
8\. The AMF didn\'t clear the UE context for the time duration received from
UDM+HSS. AMF provides \"AM Policy Association maintenance timer" in the
Npcf_AMPolicyControl_Delete to PCF. PCF shall defer the policy termination for
the received time duration and update only policy related to UE's RFSP Index
during this time period and implicitly removes the AM policy after expiry of
this timer.
9\. UE moves to new MME.
10\. The new MME sends the ULR with single registration indication and
registers its address in UDM+HSS
11\. Based on some trigger, PCF decides to update the RFSP Index or validity
timer and notify to the AMF according to current description in TS 23.503 [4].
12\. The AMF queries the new MME address from UDM+HSS and receive it.
13\. The AMF queries the serving node address for the UE from UDM using
existing Nudm_UECM_Get service operation and UDM provides serving MME (new
MME) address. The AMF sends the \"RFSP Index in use\" or validity timer to new
MME.
14\. The new MME updates the received \"RFSP Index in use\" and validity timer
and use it.
### 6.6.3 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
This solution may have the following impacts to existing entities and
interfaces:
AMF:
\- When a UE is moving from 5GS to EPS, and HSS/UDM invokes
Nudm_UECM_DeregistrationNotification to notify the AMF associated with 3GPP
access with reason as 5GS to EPS Mobility, the AMF should maintain the UE\'s
registration context for the received time period. AMF provides "AM Policy
Association maintenance timer" in the Npcf_AMPolicyControl_Delete to PCF.
UDM+HSS:
\- UDM+HSS should maintain the UE\'s 5G registration state temporarily for
some duration based on the indication received from MME. Also it will provide
this time period to AMF while sending deregistration notification.
MME:
\- MME should be able to receive and apply the updated RFSP Index from AMF
after the 5GS to EPS handover procedure or idle mode mobility complete. It
will provide one indication for those UEs it has received validity condition
along with RFSP Index In use from AMF.
PCF:
\- PCF should defer the policy termination for the received time duration and
update only policy related to UE's RFSP Index during this time period and
implicitly removes the AM policy after expiry of this timer.
## 6.7 Solution #7: Provide updated RFSP when UE is already moved to EPS
without N26 interface
### 6.7.1 Description
This paper reuse the concept of solution 1 to implement AM policy association
maintenance timer to send any further updated RFSP to MME when UE is already
moved to EPS. It retains the concept of solution 2 to send the RFSP to MME via
UDM+HSS.
When UE moves to EPS, MME registers its address in UDM+HSS and then UDM+HSS
shall maintain UE\'s 5G registration state temporarily for some duration i.e.
AM Policy Association maintenance timer if the UE is in single registration
mode. It provides this timer while sending deregistration notification to AMF
so that both AMF and UDM+HSS will be in sync in holding this temporary
registration state for the UE.
During this time period based on some trigger, the PCF may update UE\'s RFSP
index in order to direct the UE back from EPC to 5GC. The update RFSP index is
deliver to the AMF. AMF then notifies to HSS+UDM and then UDM+HSS will notify
to MME.
### 6.7.2 Procedures
Figure 6.7.2-1: **Updated RFSP from 5GS to EPS without N26 interface**
The detailed procedure is described in Figure 6.7.2-1.
1\. The UE registers to 5GC via NG-RAN. AMF establishes AM Policy association
with PCF as in clause 4.16.1.2 of TS 23.502 [3].
2\. The PCF decides to adjust the RFSP index to direct the UE from 5G to 4G.
The PCF decision could be based on various inputs. For example:
\- Based on various analytics and prediction result from NWDAF (e.g. network
congestion in 5G).
\- According to the request from AF.
The PCF provides the new \"Authorized RFSP\" for the UE by initiating AM
Policy Modification procedure as in clause 4.16.2.2 of TS 23.502 [3].
3\. AMF notifies the UDM on the \"Authorized RFSP\" received from PCF. If the
UDM and HSS are deployed separately then the UDM further notifies the
\"Authorized RFSP\" to the HSS. In a combined UDM+HSS deployment this step
(step 5b in Figure 6.2.2-1) is not needed or handled in implementation
specific way.
4\. UE moves to EPS via E-UTRAN.
5\. The MME sends the ULR with single registration or dual registration mode
indication and register its address in UDM+HSS.
6\. The UDM+HSS starts the \"AM Policy Association Timer\" and maintain the
UE\'s 5G registration state for this duration if the UE is in single
registration mode and provides this timer in the
Nudm_UECM_DeregistrationNotification to AMF.
7\. The UDM+HSS provides the Authorized RFSP to MME.
8\. The MME stores and use the received \"Authorized RFSP Index\" from
UDM+HSS.
9\. The AMF didn\'t clear the UE context for the time duration received from
UDM+HSS.
10\. Based on some trigger, PCF decides to update the Authorized RFSP and
notify to the AMF according to current description in TS 23.503 [4].
11\. The AMF notifies the Authorized RFSP to UDM+HSS
12\. The UDM+HSS provides the Authorized RFSP to MME.
13\. The MME updates the received \"Authorized RFSP\" and use it.
### 6.7.3 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
This solution may have the following impacts to existing entities and
interfaces:
AMF:
\- When a UE is moving from 5GS to EPS, and HSS/UDM invokes
Nudm_UECM_DeregistrationNotification to notify the AMF associated with 3GPP
access with reason as 5GS to EPS Mobility, the AMF should maintain the UE\'s
registration context for the received time period.
UDM+HSS:
\- UDM+HSS should maintain the UE\'s 5G registration state temporarily for
some duration. Also it will provide this time period to AMF while sending
deregistration notification.
NOTE: The impacts mentioned in solution 2 is applicable as well.
## 6.8 Solution #8: MME-enhancement solution on KI#1 for 5GS to EPS mobility
without N26 interface
### 6.8.1 Description
For 5GS to EPS mobility procedure without N26 interface, i.e. no UE context on
RFSP Index in use could be transferred from the source AMF to the target MME.
If the MME immediately select the RFSP Index following the current
specifications, it is likely that, it will select a value as \"5G
prioritized\" that conflict with the one selected by PCF in 5GC as \"4G
prioritized\" which drives the UE moving from 5GS to EPS. This may cause the
ping-pong issue.
So it is propose that, when the MME realizes that the UE is moving from 5GC
with the indication provided by the UE, and not receiving UE context
containing RFSP Index in use information as no N26 interface applies, after
successful attachment, the target MME should set the value of RFSP Index as
\"4G prioritized\" for a pre-configured timer at the MME. When the timer runs
out, the MME can re-select the RFSP Index value following the current
specifications.
This can make sure that the UE won\'t be sent back to the 5GS immediately to
trigger the ping-pong issue because of conflict on RFSP index between 5GC and
EPC, and allow the MME to select the RFSP Index considering local
configuration and subscribed RFSP Index from HSS.
### 6.8.2 Procedures
This solution has no impact on current procedures.
### 6.8.3 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
The solution has the following impacts:
MME:
\- When a MME aware that a UE is moved from 5GS and without UE context of RFSP
Index in use as no N26 interface applies, the MME locally sets the RFSP Index
in use as \"4G prioritized\" for a certain duration of time pre-configured in
the MME. When the validity condition expires, the MME selects the RFSP Index
value following the current specifications.
## 6.9 Solution #9: PCF-updated RFSP Index to MME via HSS
### 6.9.1 Description
This solution address KI#1 and applies to UE interworking between 5G and 4G,
including:
\- 5G to 4G mobility with N26 or without N26.
\- 4G to 5G mobility with N26 or without N26.
NOTE: This solution is applicable to non-roaming scenario and how PCF updates
RFSP Index to MME in roaming case will not be involved.
To direct the UE from 5G to 4G in some scenarios, the PCF may adjust the RFSP
index for the UE and notify it to the AMF to update the RFSP index in use for
the UE, for example:
\- Based on some statistics and prediction result from NWDAF F (e.g. Observed
Service Experience analytics, UE communication analytics, Network Performance
analytics for 5G, etc.), the PCF may request to move some of UEs to 4G to
reduce the 5G network congestion.
\- Bases on application in use, e.g. if the application in use for the UE is
suitable to be performed in 4G, then the PCF may request to move the UE to 4G
for better service experience.
The PCF notifies the updated RFSP index to the UDM/HSS.
The UDM/HSS will send the updated RFSP index to the MME serving the UE in the
Location Update Response message during the TAU or attach procedure, which is
initiated by the UE after accessing to 4G.
Based on the updated RFSP index received from HSS, the MME sets RFSP index in
use for the UE, which is consistent with AM policy in 5G and allows the UE to
stay in 4G.
After the UE is directed from 5G to 4G, the PCF may adjust the RFSP index
again to request 4G network to direct the UE back to 5G according to dynamic
network situations, for example:
\- Based on some statistics and prediction result from NWDAF F (e.g. Observed
Service Experience analytics, UE communication analytics, Network Performance
analytics for 5G, etc.), the PCF may request to move some of UEs to 5G when
the 5G network congestion has eased
\- Bases on application in use, e.g. if the application in use for the UE is
suitable to be performed in 5G, then the PCF may request to move the UE to 5G
for better service experience.
In a similar way, the PCF notifies the updated RFSP index to the UDM/HSS, and
the UDM/HSS will notify the updated RFSP index to the MME by reusing the
Insert Subscribe Data procedure. Then based on the updated RFSP index received
from HSS, the MME sets RFSP index in use for the UE. The RFSP index in use
will be sent to eNB, which will guide the UE to move from 4G to 5G.
### 6.9.2 Procedures
#### 6.9.2.1 Procedure for triggering UE to move from 5G to 4G
Figure 6.9.2.1-1: PCF-updated RFSP Index update from 5GC to MME in N26-base
architecture
1\. The UE registers to 5GC via NG-RAN. AMF establishes AM Policy association
with PCF as in clause 4.16.1.2 of TS 23.502 [3].
2\. The PCF decides to adjust the RFSP index to direct the UE from 5G to 4G.
The PCF decision could be based on various inputs. For example:
\- Based on various analytics result from NWDAF (e.g. Observed Service
Experience analytics, UE communication analytics, Network Performance
analytics for 5G, etc.).
\- Bases on application in use, e.g. the application in use is suitable to be
performed in 4G.
3\. The PCF updates RFSP index for the UE to RFSP index value 1, and provides
the RFSP index vaule1 to the AMF by initiating AM Policy Modification
procedure as in clause 4.16.2.2 of TS 23.502 [3].
4\. The AMF provides the RFSP index vaule1 as the RFSP index in use to the gNB
by initiating a UE CONEXT MODIFICATION procedure as in clause 8.3.4 of TS
38.413 [7].
5\. Then the PCF notifies the UDM/HSS the RFSP index vaule1. If the UDM and
HSS are deployed separately then the UDM further notifies the RFSP index
vaule1 to the HSS. In a combined UDM+HSS deployment this step (5b in Figure
6.9.2.1-1) is not needed or handled in implementation specific way.
6-7. When the UE accesses to 4G, the UE performs TAU or Attach procedure,
during which the HSS provides RFSP index vaule1 to the MME serving the UE.
8\. The MME updates RFSP index in use for the UE from subscribed RFSP Index
value to RFSP index vaule1.
9\. The MME provides the RFSP index vaule1 as the RFSP in use to the eNB in UE
CONTEXT MODIFICATION procedure as in clause 8.3.4 of TS 36.413 [6].
10\. Based on RFSP index value 1, the ENB keeps the UE in 4G, and will not
direct the UE to 5G bases on subscribed RFSP Index value.
#### 6.9.2.2 Procedure for triggering UE to move from 4G to 5G
Figure 6.9.2.2-1: Procedure for triggering UE to move from 4G to 5G
0\. After procedure depicted in clause 6.9.2.1, the UE moves from 5G and
registers to EPC via E-UTRAN. The PCF doesn\'t release AM Policy association
for the UE.
1\. The PCF decides to adjust the RFSP index to direct the UE from 4G to 5G.
The PCF decision could be based on various inputs. For example:
\- Based on various analytics result from NWDAF (e.g. Observed Service
Experience analytics, UE communication analytics, Network Performance
analytics for 5G, etc.).
\- Bases on application in use, e.g. the application in use is suitable to be
performed in 5G.
The PCF updates RFSP index for the UE to RFSP index value 2.
2\. Then the PCF notifies the UDM/HSS the RFSP index vaule2. If the UDM and
HSS are deployed separately then the UDM further notifies the RFSP index
vaule1 to the HSS. In a combined UDM+HSS deployment this step (step 2b in
Figure 6.9.2.2-1) is not needed or handled in implementation specific way.
3\. The HSS notifies RFSP index vaule2 to the MME serving the UE, e.g. by
reusing the Insert Subscribe Data procedure as in clause 5.3.9.2 of TS 23.401
[5].
4\. The MME updates RFSP index in use for the UE from RFSP index vaule1 to
RFSP index vaule2.
5\. The MME provides the RFSP index vaule2 as the RFSP in use to the eNB in UE
CONTEXT MODIFICATION procedure as in clause 8.3.4 of TS 36.413 [6].
6\. Based on RFSP index value 2, the eNB initiates RRC release procedure,
which will trigger the UE access to 5G, then UE performs mobility registration
procedure to 5GC.
### 6.9.3 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
The solution has the following impacts:
PCF:
\- Notifies the updated RFSP index to the UDM/HSS.
\- Remains the AM policy association for the UE in the 5G&4G interworking
scenario when the UE moves from 5G to 4G.
UDM/HSS:
\- Receives the updated RFSP index from the PCF and notifies it to the MME
serving the UE during Update Location or as a Standalone Insert Subscriber
Data operation.
MME:
\- Receives the updated RFSP index from the HSS and set the RFSP index in use
for the UE based on it.
AMF:
\- Remains the AM policy association for the UE in the 5G&4G interworking
scenario when the UE moves from 5G to 4G.
## 6.10 Solution #10: Provide RFSP Index via N26 interface when the UE moves
from 5GC to EPC
### 6.10.1 Description
This solution is applicable only when N26-based interworking is used.
When N26-based interworking architecture applies, AMF and MME use N26
interface to transfer mobility management message. The parameters, subscribed
RFSP index and RFSP index in use, are transferred in:
\- Forward Relocation Request as in 5GS to EPS handover procedures using N26
interface, or
\- Context Response as in 5GS to EPS Idle mode mobility using N26 interface.
Subscribed RFSP Index CO This IE shall be included by the source MME/SGSN/AMF,
if received from the HSS or UDM. RFSP Index 0
* * *
RFSP Index in Use CO This IE shall be included by the source MME/SGSN/AMF, if
it supports the feature. RFSP Index 1
During UE registration in 5GC, the AMF may report to the PCF the subscribed
RFSP Index received from the UDM for further evaluation as described in clause
6.1.2.1 of TS 23.503 [4]. When receiving the \"authorized RFSP Index\" from
the PCF, the AMF replaces the \"subscribed RFSP Index\" with the \"authorized
RFSP Index\" as specified in clause 5.3.4.3.1 of TS 23.501 [2]. So the
\"subscribed RFSP Index\" stored in the UE context in AMF may be different
than the \"subscribed RFSP Index\" received from the UDM as the AMF may
replace the \"subscribed RFSP Index\" with the \"authorized RFSP Index\"
received from the PCF.
Therefore, this solution proposes that, when UE moves from 5G to 4G, the MME
shall compare the \"subscribed RFSP Index\" received from the AMF (which could
be the \"Authorized RFSP Index\" provided by the PCF) with the \"RFSP Index\"
received from the HSS. If they are different, the MME shall store the
\"subscribed RFSP Index\" received from AMF in a new IE \"5GC Authorized RFSP
Index\" and store the RFSP Index received from the HSS in \"subscribed RFSP
Index\".
The difference in \"5GC Authorized RFSP Index\" and \"subscribed RFSP Index\"
is an indication to the MME that 5GC has dynamically assigned an RFSP Index to
the UE and the MME shall, based on operator\'s policies, ignore the RFSP Index
received from the HSS e.g. for a configured duration. This policy/duration
could be operator determined e.g.:
\- \"5GC Authorized RFSP Index\" is used only for the current registration in
the MME and is not used when the UE moves to another MME due to mobility.
\- \"5GC Authorized RFSP Index\" is used only for a configured duration (e.g.
T). When the UE moves to another MME due to mobility (e.g. after a period
\"t\"), the source MME then provides the remaining duration (i.e. T-t) for
which \"5GC Authorized RFSP Index\" shall be used by the destination MME.
\- Or it could be a combination of both of the above.
When the configured duration is reached, the MME may remove the \"5GC
Authorized RFSP Index\" from its context for the UE and start using the
\"subscribed RFSP Index\" that was received from the HSS.
### 6.10.2 Procedures
There is no additional procedure needed to update the RFSP Index when the UE
is served by the EPC. MME uses the 5GC authorized RFSP Index for a
configuration duration as explained in clause 6.10.1.
### 6.10.3 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
The solution has the following impacts:
PCF:
\- No impact.
AMF:
\- No impact.
MME:
\- MME shall compare the \"subscribed RFSP Index\" received from the AMF
(which could be the \"Authorized RFSP Index\" provided by the PCF) with the
\"RFSP Index\" received from the HSS.
\- If they are different, the MME shall store the \"subscribed RFSP Index\"
received from AMF in a new IE \"5GC Authorized RFSP Index\" and store the RFSP
Index received from the HSS in \"subscribed RFSP Index\".
\- MME shall ignore the RFSP Index received from the HSS for a configured
duration.
\- When the configured duration is reached, the MME may remove the \"5GC
Authorized RFSP Index\" from its context for the UE and start using the
\"subscribed RFSP Index\" that was received from the HSS.
N26:
\- No impact.
# 7 Overall Evaluation
Editor\'s note: This clause will provide evaluation of different solutions.
## 7.1 Evaluation on Key Issue #1: RFSP Index consistency when UE moves from
5GC to EPC
### 7.1.1 For deployment without N26 interface interworking
NOTE: Below evaluation assumes that solution for deployment without N26 is
needed.
According to clause 5.3.4.3.1 of TS 23.501 [2], when receiving the authorized
RFSP Index from the PCF, for non-roaming subscribers, the AMF chooses the RFSP
Index in use according to one of the following procedures, depending on
operator\'s configuration:
\- the RFSP Index in use is identical to the authorized RFSP Index; or
\- the AMF chooses the RFSP Index in use based on the authorized RFSP Index,
the locally configured operator\'s policies, the Allowed NSSAI and the UE
related context information available at the AMF, including UE\'s usage
setting, if received during Registration procedures.
The above would mean that the \"RFSP Index in use\" chosen by AMF may be
different from the authorized RFSP Index from PCF, therefore it is the RFSP
Index in use (but not the authorized RFSP Index) that should be sent to the
EPC. Besides, when the PCF provides modified/authorized RFSP Index (e.g. based
on network congestion analytics), PCF has the knowledge how long the
congestion may last, therefore it should be the PCF (but not the EPC/MME) that
determines the validity time, as the EPC/MME does not have the necessary
information.
There are following solutions addressing the deployment scenario without N26
interface:
Sol#2, Sol#4, Sol#5, Sol#7, Sol#8, Sol#9.
Among the above solutions, except Sol#8, the other solutions propose to
involve UDM+HSS either by modifying the existing Subscribed RFSP Index in HSS
or add new parameter (either \"Authorized RFSP Index\" or \"RFSP Index in
use\" for MME to use.
Table 7.1.1-1 below list the comparison in the following aspects:
#1 PCF or AMF notifies or provisions UDM of the RFSP Index chosen by the AMF?
#2 Which NF determines the validity time?
#3 Is a new parameter introduced in the subscription data provided by HSS? If
yes, what parameter name?
Table 7.1.1-1: Evaluation on principles of KI#1 candidate solutions on without
N26 interface scenario
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Sol# | PCF or | Which NF | New | UDM+HSS | Ev | | | AMF | de | p | mai | aluation | | | not | termines | arameter | ntaining | | | | ifies/pr | validity | in | UE\'s 5G | | | | ovisions | time? | subs | regi | | | | UDM? | | cription | stration | | | | | | data in | as in | | | | | | HSS | legacy? | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | #2 | AMF | MME | \"Au | Yes | - | | | notifies | (when | thorized | | Conc | | | UDM of | r | RFSP | | eptually | | | new | eceiving | Index\" | | i | | | p | \"Au | | | ncorrect | | | arameter | thorized | | | as | | | \"Au | RFSP | | | \"Au | | | thorized | Index\" | | | thorized | | | RFSP | from | | | RFSP | | | Index\" | HSS) | | | Index\" | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ifferent | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | \"RFSP | | | | | | | Index in | | | | | | | use\". | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | #5 | AMF | PCF | \"Au | Yes | - Data | | | notifies | | thorized | | entry to | | | UDM, | | RFSP | | be | | | with | | Index\" | | managed | | | validity | | + | | by UDM, | | | time | | validity | | better | | | | | time | | to use | | | | | | | PP | | | | | | | instead | | | | | | | of AMF | | | | | | | Notify. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | unclear | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | | Op | | | | | | | eration. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | #4 | AMF use | PCF | \"RFSP | Yes | | | | PP | | Index in | | | | | service, | | use\" + | | | | | new para | | \" | | | | | \"RFSP | | validity | | | | | Index in | | time | | | | | use\" | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | validity | | | | | | | time | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | #7 | Similar | Similar | Similar | No, | UDM+HSS | | | as | as | as | UDM+HSS | b | | | Sol#2 | Sol#2 | Sol#2 | maintain | ehaviour | | | | | | UE's 5G | not BW | | | | | | state | com | | | | | | tem | patible, | | | | | | porarily | see | | | | | | for some | NOTE 1. | | | | | | d | | | | | | | uration. | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | #8 | NA | NA | NA | Yes | Changes | | | | | | | also the | | | | | | | handling | | | | | | | of 5GS | | | | | | | to EPS | | | | | | | mobility | | | | | | | due to | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | reasons | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | KI#1, | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | NOTE 2. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | #9 | - PCF | No timer | Use | Yes | - | | | notifies | m | \"su | | Unclear | | | UDM of | entioned | bscribed | | how PCF | | | \"Au | | RFSP | | not | | | thorized | | Index\" | | r | | | RFSP | | | | eleasing | | | Index\" | | Prere | | AM | | | | | quisite: | | policy | | | - PCF | | MME must | | asso | | | does not | | use | | ciation. | | | release | | \"Su | | | | | AM | | bscribed | | - | | | Policy | | RFSP | | Li | | | ass | | Index\" | | mitation | | | ociation | | | | that MME | | | for the | | | | must use | | | UE | | | | su | | | | | | | bscribed | | | | | | | RFSP | | | | | | | Index. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Sol#7 | | | | | | | proposes | | | | | | | that at | | | | | | | 5GS to | | | | | | | EPS | | | | | | | mobility | | | | | | | without | | | | | | | N26, the | | | | | | | MME its | | | | | | | address | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | UDM+HSS | | | | | | | and then | | | | | | | UDM+HSS | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | maintain | | | | | | | UE\'s 5G | | | | | | | regi | | | | | | | stration | | | | | | | state | | | | | | | tem | | | | | | | porarily | | | | | | | for some | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | uration. | | | | | | | Such | | | | | | | proposal | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | (b | | | | | | | ackward) | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | mpatible | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | existing | | | | | | | system | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | ehaviour | | | | | | | that the | | | | | | | MME | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | ndicates | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | UDM+HSS | | | | | | | not to | | | | | | | cancel | | | | | | | the AMF | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | pecified | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | lause 4. | | | | | | | 11.2.4.1 | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | TS 23.50 | | | | | | | 2 [3]. | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | that no | | | | | | | addition | | | | | | | address | | | | | | | of MME | | | | | | | needs to | | | | | | | be sent | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | HSS+UDM. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | As RFSP | | | | | | | Index | | | | | | | change | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | the only | | | | | | | reason | | | | | | | for UE | | | | | | | mobility | | | | | | | from 5GS | | | | | | | to EPS, | | | | | | | the MME | | | | | | | will not | | | | | | | be able | | | | | | | to tell, | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | herefore | | | | | | | Sol#8 | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | below) | | | | | | | changes | | | | | | | also the | | | | | | | handling | | | | | | | of 5GS | | | | | | | to EPS | | | | | | | mobility | | | | | | | due to | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | reasons | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | KI#1 | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | imp | | | | | | | lication | | | | | | | needs | | | | | | | further | | | | | | | analysis | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | eva | | | | | | | luation. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | _\ | | | | | | | "...when | | | | | | | the MME | | | | | | | realizes | | | | | | | that the | | | | | | | UE is | | | | | | | moving | | | | | | | from 5GC | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | dication | | | | | | | provided | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | UE, and | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | eceiving | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | context | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | ntaining | | | | | | | RFSP | | | | | | | Index in | | | | | | | use | | | | | | | inf | | | | | | | ormation | | | | | | | as no | | | | | | | N26 | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | nterface | | | | | | | applies, | | | | | | | after | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | ccessful | | | | | | | att | | | | | | | achment, | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | target | | | | | | | MME | | | | | | | should | | | | | | | set the | | | | | | | value of | | | | | | | RFSP | | | | | | | Index as | | | | | | | \"4G | | | | | | | prior | | | | | | | itized\" | | | | | | | for a | | | | | | | pre-co | | | | | | | nfigured | | | | | | | timer at | | | | | | | the MME. | | | | | | | When the | | | | | | | timer | | | | | | | runs | | | | | | | out, the | | | | | | | MME can | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | e-select | | | | | | | the RFSP | | | | | | | Index | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | ollowing | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | current | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | ificatio | | | | | | | ns...\"_ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | | | operator | | | | | | | can | | | | | | | accept | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | imp | | | | | | | lication | | | | | | | that MME | | | | | | | sets a | | | | | | | timer | | | | | | | for 5GS | | | | | | | to EPS | | | | | | | mobility | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | gardless | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | reason, | | | | | | | this can | | | | | | | be done | | | | | | | without | | | | | | | standard | | | | | | | ization. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### 7.1.2 For deployment with N26-based interworking
There are 4 solutions proposed for Key Issue #1, targeting to provide RFSP
Index consistency when UE moves from 5GC to EPC for N26-based interworking
scenario.
Table 7.1.2-1 compares the principles between the proposed solutions.
Table 7.1.2-1: Evaluation on principles of KI#1 candidate solutions on
N26-based interworking scenario
* * *
Sol# Need to keep AM Policy Association Impacts to Existing Nodes and Proposed
Enhancements Use of Validity Condition(s)
* * *
          after UE Moves from 5GC to EPC       AMF                                                                                                              MME                            HSS+UDM                                                                                                       PCF for a UE
1 X X X X\ - New timer for AM association maintenance at AMF and equivalent
new timer for MME to use RFSP Index from AMF. (AMF be aware of the change of
serving MME from HSS/UDM)
3 - X X - X\ MME re-evaluates the RFSP Index when the timer expires. (PCF for
a UE generates a timer along with the authorized RFSP Index)
6 X X X X\ - HSS+UDM maintain UE\'s 5G registration state for AM Policy
Association maintenance timer and provides it to AMF. During the validity
timer, if PCF for a UE updates RFSP index, AMF queries the MME address from
HSS+UDM and send the updated RFSP index to MME. (maintain the UE\'s 5G
registration state temporarily for some duration and provide the MME address
to AMF)
10 - X\ X - - When the configured duration is reached, the MME may remove the
\"5GC Authorized RFSP Index\" from its context for the UE and start using the
\"subscribed RFSP Index\" that was received from the HSS. (AMF replaces
\"subscribed RFSP Index\" with \"authorized RFSP Index\" from PCF in UE
context and send to MME)
* * *
All these solutions are trying to answer the following 3 questions for
N26-based interworking in KI#1:
_Q1: Whether the current interworking procedure supports MME received the RFSP
Index in use from 5GC? If no, what enhancements is needed._
For N26-based interworking: (Solution #1, #3, #6 and #10) the current
specification already supports the RFSP Index in use transferred to MME in UE
context during handover/TAU.
**If there is any enhanced information, it should also be transferred via
N26.**
_Q2: If the MME get the RFSP Index in used in handover procedure or idle mode
mobility procedure, how and when it resumes to the subscription RFSP Index._
\- (Solution #1 and #6) The PCF for a UE maintains the AM Policy Association
when UE move from 5G to 4G and updates the authorized RFSP Index according to
triggers and conditions defined in current specification. The MME re-selects
the RFSP Index in use considering the dynamic input from PCF at the cost of
network overhead and extra procedures.
\- When MME realizes a UE is moving from 5GC, it starts a timer within which
value of the RFSP Index in use will not be changed. When the timer expires,
the MME will be free to re-select the RFSP Index in use according to current
method. The value of this timer may be set to:
\- (Solution #10) A local value preconfigured in MME, which is same to all UE
and not adjustable.
\- (Solution #3) A value selected by PCF when it generates an authorized RFSP
Index value indicating the UE to move from 5G to 4G. So the timer is per UE
from 5G and not adjustable after the UE in 4G. PCF can decide that timer based
on information, e.g. from UDR or NWDAF. If the AMF modifies the authorized
RFSP Index from PCF, i.e. the AMF selects a different value of RFSP Index in
use, whether the timer value from PCF should still be sent to MME is clarified
in S2-2205525 (ongoing discussion).
**Considering the trade-off of system impact and flexibility, the PCF-selected
timer seems to solve the problem in a more agreeable way. Preconfigured timer
in MME can implementation specific without standardization as such timer will
apply to EPS to 5GS mobility scenario not targeted in the KI.**
_Q3: When UE is under EPC, should MME receive any update of RFSP Index from
5GC and how._
\- (Solution #1 and #6) Yes. The PCF is able to update the RFSP Index In Use
or the timer according to, e.g. AF\'s influence request. And MME is able to
change the RFSP Index in use in a timely manner.
\- (Solution #3 and #10) No. The MME is able to re-select the RFSP Index only
after the validity time provided by the AMF (decided by PCF) expires.
**The evaluation of Q2 also applies to Q3.**
# 8 Conclusions
Editor\'s note: This clause will list conclusions that have been agreed during
the course of the study item activities.
## 8.1 Conclusion on Key Issue #1: RFSP Index consistency when UE moves from
5GC to EPC
### 8.1.1 For deployment without N26 interface interworking
For deployment scenario without N26 interface it is concluded that no
normative work is required at this point.
### 8.1.2 For deployment with N26-based interworking
The following conclusion are agreed:
\- When a UE moves from 5GC to EPC, the MME sets the \"RFSP Index in use\"
value the same as the value in the UE context received from AMF via N26 if the
UE context in AMF also contains a validity period.
\- When the validity period expires, the MME re-evaluates the RFSP Index value
according to current specification (see clause 4.3.6 of TS 23.401 [5]).
\- The validity period, i.e. \"RFSPinUseExpiryTime\" is selected by PCF for a
UE. When the PCF for a UE provides the Authorized RFSP Index indicating the UE
to move to 4G, it may also provide the value of \"RFSPinUseExpiryTime\". If
the AMF selects the RFSP Index in use identical to the authorized RFSP Index,
it should store the received \"RFSPinUseExpiryTime\" in UE context in AMF and
further also send the received \"RFSPinUseExpiryTime\" to MME in UE context
along with the \"RFSP Index in use\" when N26 interface applied.
\- When mobility happens between MMEs before the \"RFSPinUseExpiryTime\"
expires, the remaining value of the \"RFSPinUseExpiryTime\" should also be
sent to the new MME. The new MME handles RFSP Index in the same way as for
mobility from the AMF to the MME as described above.
\- When a UE is served by the EPC, there is no use case or requirement to
provide updated RFSP Index from 5GC to the EPC.
#