# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report which identifies the application
enabling layer platform architecture, capabilities and services to efficiently
support distribution, storage and delivery for the application content/data
for vertical applications.
The study takes into consideration the existing stage 1 and stage 2 work
within 3GPP related to data delivery and 3GPP system user plane aspects
specified in 3GPP TS 22.261 [2], 3GPP TS 23.501 [6] and 3GPP TS 23.247 [4].
This document will provide recommendations for normative work.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system; Stage 1\".
> [3] 3GPP TS 23.222: \"Functional architecture and information flows to
> support Common API Framework for 3GPP Northbound APIs; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.247: \"Architectural enhancements for 5G multicast-broadcast
services\".
> [5] 3GPP TS 23.434: \"Service Enabler Architecture Layer for Verticals
> (SEAL); Functional architecture and information flows\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS)\".
> [7] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.548: \"5G System Enhancements for Edge Computing; Stage 2\".
> [9] 3GPP TS 23.554: \"Application architecture for MSGin5G Service\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.558: \"Architecture for enabling Edge Applications\".
[11] 3GPP TR 23.700-60: \"Study on XR (Extended Reality) and media services \"
[12] 3GPP TS 28.104: \"Management and orchestration; Management Data
Analytics\".
[13] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[14] IEEE 802.1CB-2017: \"IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area
networks--Frame Replication and Elimination for Reliability\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
None
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AC Application Client
ACR Application Context Relocation
ACT Application Context Transfer
AF Application Function
API Application Programming Interface
CAPIF Common API Framework for northbound APIs
DD Data Delivery
EAS Edge Application Server
EDN Edge Data Network
EEL Edge Enabler Layer
FRER Frame Replication and Elimination for Reliability
NEF Network Exposure Function
NRM Network Resource Management
NSACF Network Slice Admission Control Function
NWDAF Network Data Analytics Function
PCF Policy and Charging Function
QUIC Quick UDP Internet Connections
SBA Service Based Architecture
SCEF Service Capability Exposure Function
SEAL Service Enabler Architecture Layer
SEALDD SEAL Data Delivery
URLLC Ultra Reliable and Low Latency Capability
URSP UE Route Selection Policy
VAL Vertical Application Layer
# 4 Key issues
## 4.1 Key issue #1: Support for E2E redundant transport
Industrial requirements for supporting redundant transports for URLLC are
specified in clause 5.33.2.1 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [6] with dual connectivity
based end to end redundant user paths. Rel-16 URLLC work in 5GS is limited to
URSP solutions assuming that the UE\'s application layer or operating system
supports duplication of the traffic and provides two distinct traffic
descriptors for the two redundant traffic. How to initiate the establishment
procedure and how to use the redundant user plane path are not defined yet
(now they are up to the upper layer implementation). For example, the UE may
use the implementation of FRER (Frame Replication and Elimination for
Reliability), IEEE 802.1CB-2017 [14], in the UE\'s upper layer protocols (i.e.
application layer or operating system layer), to establish two redundant PDU
Sessions and manage the replication and elimination of redundant
packets/frames. However, redundant implementation on upper layer protocols is
not always available for application clients and application servers. In those
cases where application client and application server support is not available
for redundant implementation, the application enablement layer (with SEALDD
client and SEALDD server) can support this functionality for the application.
For the verticals/enterprises, it is a better choice to use the SEALDD service
for the interaction with 5GC and management of the replication and elimination
of redundant packets so as to remove the complication from the application.
The following open issues can be studied to support E2E redundant transmission
aspects as enabler capabilities:
1\. Whether and how to support the packet/data duplication and elimination
between client (UE) and server (Network) at enabler layer for E2E redundant
transport?
2\. Whether and how to support the interaction between the enabler service and
5GC to establish the E2E redundant transmission path?
## 4.2 Key issue #2: Support for Transport layer enhancement for UE\'s service
continuity
3GPP TS 23.548 [8] and 3GPP TS 23.558 [10] specifies that, service continuity
is required for EAS relocation and service continuity relies on application
layer support of seamless context/status relocation between the EAS servers.
Transport layer connection re-establishment also causes service interrupts.
Thus EAS IP replacement is also discussed in 3GPP TS 23.548 [8], assuming that
real-time transport layer relocation is supported between the source EAS and
target EAS. However, the real-time context/status relocation and transport
layer real-time relocation are not always supported for the
verticals/enterprises. In those cases where network support is not available,
the application enablement layer can support this functionality for the
application. The data delivery enabler service in network can maintain the
transport layer connection with corresponding client in the UE. EAS can use
such data delivery enabler service for EAS relocation (including context
transfer and lossless packet transfer). Such data delivery enabler can ensure
the UE\'s service continuity including seamless data delivery and enhanced
transport layer management.
For example, two basic scenarios can be considered involving the data delivery
enabler:
{width="6.166666666666667in" height="2.4756944444444446in"}
Figure 4.2-1: EAS relocation due to EAS load balancing
{width="6.25625in" height="2.448611111111111in"}
Figure 4.2-2: EAS relocation due to UE location change
Figure 4.2-1 shows the EAS relocation due to EAS load balancing, in this
scenario, UPF and SEALDD server are not changed. SEALDD server should support
the seamless EAS relocation to ensure UE service continuity. SEALDD server may
provide transport layer enhancement (i.e. transport layer packets processing
to ensure the S-EAS and T-EAS can receive/send the packets properly without
re-establishment of transport layer connection).
Figure 4.2-2 shows the EAS relocation due to UE location change, in this
scenario, UPF and SEALDD server are changed. SEALDD server may provide
transport layer enhancement (i.e. lossless packet transfer and transport layer
status coordination during the whole relocation procedure).
The following aspects can be studied to support SEALDD enabled transport layer
enhancement for UE continuity:
\- How to support EAS relocation scenarios involving SEALDD server (e.g. EAS
relocation initiated by the AF/AS for load balancing or EAS relocation
initiated by the 5GC because of UE location change).
\- How SEALDD enabler provides support for seamless relocation and lossless
data delivery?
## 4.3 Key issue #3: Support for data transmission quality measurement and
guarantee
SEAL data delivery enabler can provide detailed end to end quality measurement
reports and end to end transport optimization since the application data is
processed in SEAL data delivery enabler layer and transmitted between SEALDD
clients and SEALDD servers.
NOTE 1: It is assumed that SEALDD server should be co-located with application
server or deployed close to the application server.
SEAL data delivery enabler can employ data transmission quality measurement
mechanisms (e.g. packet loss, network performance, connectivity status, data
stream analytics) to analyse the end to end (UE to SEALDD server(s) supporting
the Application Server) data transmission quality. SEAL data delivery enabler
can then provide analytics as inputs to application layer e.g. for maintaining
user experience. SEALDD service can also be used to support data transmission
for different types of application data. As per the data type, SEALDD layer
may apply different transport optimizations (e.g. adaption of transmission to
varying transmission speed due to network situation). The following can be
studied to support data transmission quality measurements aspects as enabler
capabilities:
1\. How to support the data transmission quality measurements in SEALDD
server/client?
2\. What APIs should SEALDD enabler provide to application clients/servers to
support receiving transmission quality measurements?
3\. What APIs should SEALDD enabler provide to application clients/servers to
support configuration of transmission quality measurements?
4\. How to support data transmission in SEALDD enabler layer with guaranteed
quality?
## 4.4 Key issue #4: SEALDD and MSGin5G
MSGin5G is specified in 3GPP TS 23.554 [9] to provide messaging communication
capability in 5GS especially for Massive Internet of Things (MIoT). MSGin5G
provides a data delivery method for application clients/servers in message
format for industrial devices. And it can be implemented by PLMN/third party
as one enablement service and exposes related API to application provider. As
a data delivery enabler layer for general cases, SEAL data delivery enabler
layer functions can also utilize MSGin5G to provide services for UEs in
industrial environments.
Hence, it is required to study how to leverage MSGin5G service in SEALDD and
integration possibility.
## 4.5 Key issue #5: SEALDD enabled Data Storage
Applications can employ data storage service to increase performance by
reducing the need for data retrieval over the 3GPP network and backhaul
network towards application server. In this case, data requested by the
clients or application servers can be received from 3GPP network or specific
application servers only once and then be stored in the data storage server.
The subsequent requests for the stored data can be handled locally and the
data can be retrieved directly from the data storage server to save the
processing time and transferring resources cost on interacting with 3GPP
network or application server. SEALDD can provide data storage service for VAL
applications.
The data stored in the SEALDD server can be content data. In this case, the
SEALDD server provides data storage service to enable cache services for a VAL
server. Then the data storage server can provide to the VAL user with stored
application content once requested by other users in the same area according
to the interaction with VAL server. Meanwhile, for constrained devices, e.g.
battery driven low-power IoT devices, while is sleeping, the SEALDD server
could help to do some data storage and then send the stored data out after.
The data stored in the SEALDD server can also be contexts, status reports or
analytics collected from application server or 5GS. It will save processing
resources and transferring resources of 5GC and application servers. Also, the
SEALDD server can be an interchange server for consumers which do not have
direct connections with the data providers (e.g. for application context
transfer between EAS without connections).
The following aspects can be studied for this Key Issue:
\- What capability should the SEALDD server provide to support the data
storage service?
\- What APIs should SEALDD enabler provide to enable the VAL server and VAL
client to use the data storage service provided by SEALDD, such as the
creation, refreshing, update, and deletion of the stored data?
\- What APIs should SEALDD enabler provide to VAL clients/servers to monitor
the status of the stored data?
\- What management information or analytics should be provided to configure
the storage service?
\- Whether and how to provide data storage service to support application data
(e.g. application context) storage for VAL servers?
## 4.6 Key issue #6: SEALDD coordination with EEL
In SEALDD scenario, VAL application data traffic is converted to SEALDD
traffic and the SEALDD traffic ends in SEALDD server. It means the packets
sent from the UE uses the address of SEALDD server as the destination IP
address. In EDGEAPP scenario, EEC gets the address of EAS via EAS discovery
procedure from the EES, and the application data traffic sent from the
Application Client on the UE has the address of EAS as the destination
address. If the Application Client on the UE uses EEL to discover and select
EAS, while the EAS uses SEALDD to help improve data delivery, then the
coordination between SEALDD and EEL should be studied.
The following coordination aspects can be studied for this Key Issue:
\- Whether and how to enable the selection of a proper SEALDD server for an
EAS (VAL server).
> \- Whether and how to enable the discovery and selection of a proper SEALDD
> server related to a specific VAL server for a SEALDD client when both SEALDD
> server and VAL server are deployed in EDN.
## 4.7 Key issue #7: SEALDD server discovery and selection
SEALDD server is used to efficiently support distribution, storage and
delivery of the application content/data for vertical applications. For a
specific VAL server, which may be used for some specific service e.g. remote
control, and have its own service area, mechanisms should be studied on how to
discover and select the proper SEALDD server for the VAL server.
A VAL server serving a VAL client on a UE can be changed (e.g. When UE moves
out of the VAL server\'s service area or VAL server goes under maintenance).
Usually a new VAL server is replaced as the serving VAL server. In this
scenario, the SEALDD server may also be changed due to the change of VAL
server. Hence, how to discover and select a new SEALDD server to support the
change in VAL server should also be studied.
The following aspects can be studied for this Key Issue:
\- How to discover and select the proper SEALDD server for a specific VAL
server.
\- How to discover and select the proper SEALDD server related to a specific
VAL server for a SEALDD client.
\- How to discover and select a new SEALDD server due to the change in VAL
server.
## 4.8 Key issue #8: SEALDD data distribution
SEALDD server is used to provide enhanced data distribution service for
vertical applications. For a specific peer of VAL client and VAL server, data
traffic flows via the SEALDD enabler. There could be multiple types of SEALDD
traffic between the SEALDD client and SEALDD server to meet the different VAL
requirements and support different SEALDD services. Interactions between the
SEALDD client and SEALDD server for data delivery should be studied.
In another example, VAL client and VAL server are from different application
service providers and a SEALDD server provided by regulator (e.g. government)
needs to carry out traffic control for the communication between the VAL
client and VAL server for privacy/security reason. The VAL data flow is
transferred via the SEALDD layer and the SEALDD layer terminates the SEALDD
application traffic. The VAL data flow being transferred between the VAL
client and VAL server may be subject to flow control (e.g. which entity talks
with which entity, block/unblock, sensitive information screening/masking,
rate control) in the application layer under different conditions (e.g. one
hour during the night) by regulator. Different VAL server may have different
data processing limit due to the server's capability. VAL server may have the
requirements to allocate different rate limit to different users.
NOTE: Security aspects will be covered by SA3.
The following aspects can be studied for this Key Issue:
\- What are the interactions between the SEALDD client and SEALDD server to
enable the data transmission for different purposes? (e.g. redundancy, regular
transmission).
\- How to control the SEALDD data distribution between the VAL client and VAL
server.
\- How to manage the bitrate of different users dynamically to better serve
the users?
# 5 Architectural requirements
## 5.1 General requirements
### 5.1.1 Description
The general architecture requirements specified in clause 4.1 of 3GPP TS
23.434 [5] are applicable for SEALDD service. This clause specifies the
general requirements for SEALDD service.
### 5.1.2 Requirements
[AR-5.1.2-a] The SEAL shall support data delivery services towards the
Vertical Application Client(s) and Vertical Application Server(s).
[AR-5.1.2-b] The SEAL shall enable SEALDD service to utilize MSGin5G service
for supporting data delivery for Vertical applications.
[AR-5.1.2-c] The SEAL shall provide a mechanism to enable the SEALDD service
discovery to support data delivery between VAL client(s) and VAL servers(s)
considering different deployments of VAL server(s) (e.g. cloud or edge).
## 5.2 Data transmission requirements
### 5.2.1 Description
This clause specifies the data transmission requirements for SEALDD service.
### 5.2.2 Requirements
[AR-5.2.2-a] The SEALDD service shall provide a mechanism for application
signalling data transmission and application media data transmission between
VAL client(s) and VAL server(s).
[AR-5.2.2-b] The SEALDD service shall provide a mechanism to support the data
transmission quality requirement configurations and measurements for the
application data transmission between VAL client(s) and VAL server(s).
[AR-5.2.2-c] The SEALDD service shall provide a mechanism for application data
transmission between VAL client(s) and VAL server(s) with guaranteed quality.
[AR-5.2.2-d] The SEALDD service shall provide a mechanism for application data
packaging and un-packaging to support the data transmission between VAL
client(s) and VAL server(s).
[AR-5.2.2-e] The SEALDD service shall provide a mechanism for E2E redundant
data transmission between VAL client and VAL server.
[AR-5.2.2-f] The SEALDD service shall provide a mechanism to support the
packet/data duplication, elimination and error recovery between VAL client and
VAL server.
## 5.3 Data storage requirements
### 5.3.1 Description
This clause specifies the data storage requirements for SEALDD service.
### 5.3.2 Requirements
[AR-5.3.2-a] The SEALDD service shall provide a mechanism for data storage
supporting the CRUD operations.
[AR-5.3.2-b] The SEALDD service shall provide a mechanism to support the data
storage status management.
## 5.4 SEALDD server discovery and selection requirements
### 5.4.1 Description
This clause specifies the SEALDD server discovery and selection requirements
for SEALDD service.
### 5.4.2 Requirements
[AR-5.4.2-a] The SEALDD service shall provide a mechanism for supporting the
SEALDD server discovery and selection for VAL server.
[AR-5.4.2-b] The SEALDD service shall provide a mechanism to provide the
information of SEALDD server to VAL/SEALDD client.
## 5.5 MSGin5G message transfer requirements
### 5.5.1 Description
This clause specifies the MSGin5G message transfer requirements for SEALDD
service.
### 5.5.2 Requirements
[AR-5.5.2-a] The SEALDD service shall provide a mechanism to support the
SEALDD traffic transmission using MSGin5G message.
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Solution #1: Data delivery enabler service architecture
### 6.1.1 Solution description
#### 6.1.1.1 Functional architecture description
This clause describes the architecture for enabling SEAL Data Delivery
applications in the following representations:
\- A service-based representation as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5], where
the SEAL Data Delivery Enabler Layer functions (e.g. SEALDD server) enable
other authorized Vertical Application Layer functions (e.g. VAL server) to
access their services.
\- A service-based representation as specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [6], where
the Network Functions (e.g. NEF) enable authorized SEAL Data Delivery Layer
functions (e.g. SEALDD server) i.e. Application Functions, to access their
services;
\- A service-based representation, where the Core Network Northbound APIs as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [6] and 3GPP TS 23.502 [7], are utilized by
authorized SEAL Data Delivery Enabler Layer functions via CAPIF core function
specified in 3GPP TS 23.222 [3]; and
\- A reference point representation, where existing interactions between any
two functions (e.g. SEALDD client and SEALDD server) is shown by an
appropriate point-to-point reference point (e.g. SEALDD-UU).
SEAL Data Delivery Enabler Layer functions shown in the service-based
representation of the SEAL Data Delivery architecture shall only use service-
based interfaces for their interactions.
Figure 6.1.1.1-1 illustrates the service based representation of SEAL Data
Delivery function in the overall SEAL service-based representation which is
specified in clause 15 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
Figure 6.1.1.1-1 SEALDD representation in SEAL generic functional model
representation using service-based interfaces
The SEALDD function exhibits service-based interfaces which are used for
providing and consuming SEALDD services. The service-based interface for
SEALDD function is representation as Sdd.
NOTE 1: Not all entities represented in this diagram will interact with the
Sdd interface.
Figure 6.1.1.1-2 illustrates the service-based representation for utilization
of the 5GS network services based on the 5GS SBA specified in 3GPP TS 23.501
[6].
Figure 6.1.1.1-2: Utilization of 5GS network services based on the 5GS SBA --
service based representation
The SEALDD server acts as AF for consuming network services from the 3GPP 5G
Core Network entities over the Service Based Architecture specified in 3GPP TS
23.501 [6].
Figure 6.1.1.1-3 illustrates the service-based representation for utilization
of the Core Network (5GC, EPC) northbound APIs via CAPIF.
Figure 6.1.1.1-3: Utilization of Core Network Northbound APIs via CAPIF \--
service based representation
The SEALDD server acts as authorized API invoker to consume services from the
Core Network (5GC, EPC) northbound API entities like SCEF, NEF, SCEF+NEF which
act as API Exposing Function as specified in 3GPP TS 23.222 [3].
The mechanism for northbound APIs discovery using the service-based interfaces
depicted in figure 6.1.1.1-3 is as specified in 3GPP TS 23.222 [3].
Figure 6.1.1.1-4 illustrates the architecture for SEAL Data Delivery enabler
service.
Figure 6.1.1.1-4 Architecture for SEAL Data Delivery Service
For uplink traffic, VAL client sends application data traffic to SEALDD client
for SEALDD service over SEALDD-C. After data plane packet processing by SEALDD
client, the application data traffic is converted to SEALDD data traffic and
transferred to SEALDD server over SEALDD-UU. The SEALDD server restores the
application data traffic and sends it to VAL server over SEALDD-S. For
downlink traffic, VAL server sends application data traffic to SEALDD server
for SEALDD service over SEALDD-S. After data plane packet processing by SEALDD
server, the application data traffic is converted to SEALDD data traffic and
transferred to SEALDD client over SEALDD-UU. The SEALDD client restores the
application data traffic and sends it to VAL client over SEALDD-C. Optionally,
VAL deployments may choose to route application signalling traffic and
application data traffic for some or all functions it offers using SEALDD
service and figure 6.1.1.1-5 illustrates the architecture for achieving this.
In this case the VAL client and VAL server may choose not to maintain
application connection by themselves and transfer all the application traffic
over SEALDD connections for those functions.
NOTE 2: SEALDD capabilities are provided as APIs to the VAL Layer, it is up to
VAL layer to decide which traffic to be transferred (e.g. application
signalling, application data).
Figure 6.1.1.1-5: Architecture for application traffic transfer
The SEAL Data Delivery client interacts with the SEAL data delivery server to
establish application layer data transport path.
Through this path, the SEALDD server and client provides data transport
service capabilities such as data plane packet processing (e.g. packet
duplication, elimination or transport coordination), data forwarding, data
caching, background data transfer, etc. to support the VAL server and client.
Annex X describes a typical lifecycle of SEALDD to establish the SEALDD
connection for the VAL client and VAL server.
#### 6.1.1.2 Functional entities description
##### 6.1.1.2.1 SEAL Data Delivery client
The SEAL data delivery client functional entity acts as the application client
for the data delivery enablement. The SEALDD client supports the following
capabilities:
\- Discovering and selecting the proper SEALDD server.
\- Establishing data transmission connection with SEALDD server.
\- Modifying the data transmission connection with SEALDD server.
\- Establishing redundant PDU sessions with 5GS.
\- Receiving the application data from VAL client and delivering the
application data to the VAL client received from network.
\- Encapsulating the application data as per data transmission mechanism and
further transmitting the encapsulated application data over the SEALDD flow to
the SEALDD server.
\- Receiving the encapsulated application data over the SEALDD flow from the
SEALDD server, de-encapsulating the application data as per the data
transmission mechanisms used.
\- Utilizing the MSGin5G functions to send the uplink SEALDD traffic in
MSGin5G message format.
##### 6.1.1.2.2 SEAL Data Delivery server
The SEAL data delivery server functional entity acts as the application server
for the data delivery enablement. The SEALDD server supports the following
capabilities:
\- Allocating the SEALDD traffic descriptor (e.g. addresses or ports) for
regular or redundant transmission.
\- Interacting with 5GS to provide the requested parameters (e.g. URSP rules).
\- Receiving the application data from VAL server and delivering the
application data to the VAL server received from network.
\- Encapsulating the application data as per data transmission mechanism and
further transmitting the encapsulated application data over the SEALDD flow to
the SEALDD client.
\- Receiving the encapsulated application data over the SEALDD flow from the
SEALDD client, de-encapsulating the application data as per the data
transmission mechanisms used.
\- Utilizing the MSGin5G functions to send the downlink SEALDD traffic in
MSGin5G message format.
\- Storing the application data from VAL client or VAL server, and supporting
the storage query and storage management.
\- Supporting the application context transfer between VAL servers by reusing
the storage service.
#### 6.1.1.3 Reference points description
##### 6.1.1.3.1 SEALDD reference points
###### 6.1.1.3.1.1 SEALDD-UU
Reference point between SEALDD client and SEALDD server used to transfer data
content and exchange information for SEALDD service provisioning, control,
reporting etc.
###### 6.1.1.3.1.2 SEALDD-C
Reference point between SEALDD client and VAL client to enable northbound
client side API exposed by SEALDD client to VAL client for data delivery and
SEALDD service provisioning, control, reporting etc.
###### 6.1.1.3.1.3 SEALDD-S
Reference point between SEALDD server and VAL server to enable northbound
server side API exposed by SEALDD server to VAL server for data delivery and
SEALDD service provisioning, control, reporting etc.
###### 6.1.1.3.1.4 SEALDD-E
Reference point enables interactions between two SEALDD servers to transfer
data content and exchange information for SEALDD service provisioning,
control, reporting etc.
##### 6.1.1.3.2 3GPP system reference points used by SEALDD
The SEALDD server, acting as AF, may communicate with the 5G Core Network
functions via NEF (N33) reference point (for interactions with PCF, NSACF,
etc.), or interacting with PCF directly via N5, if permitted.
The N6 reference point is used by SEALDD service as the user plane path for
data transmission.
### 6.1.2 Solution evaluation
This solution provides SEALDD architecture by including the basic description
of functional entities, reference points, etc.
## 6.2 Solution #2: E2E redundant transmission path establishment
### 6.2.1 Architecture enhancements
In this solution, as shown in Figure 6.2.1-1, SEALDD client and SEALDD server
transfer SEALDD traffic via two redundant PDU sessions as specified in clause
5.33.2.1 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [6].
{width="5.725694444444445in" height="2.076388888888889in"}
Figure 6.2.1-1: E2E redundant transmission architecture
In this solution, Figure 6.2.1-2 shows the data traffic flow of E2E redundant
transmission. For uplink data delivery, VAL client sends application traffic
to SEALDD client, the SEALDD client duplicates the application packets and
maps them into two SEALDD traffic. Then the two SEALDD traffic are transferred
to SEALDD server via the two redundant PDU sessions shown in figure 6.2.1-1.
The SEALDD server eliminates the redundant packets and recovers the
application traffic. The recovered application traffic is transferred to VAL
server by the SEALDD server. For downlink data delivery, VAL server sends
application traffic to SEALDD server, the SEALDD server duplicates the
application packets and maps them into two SEALDD traffic. The two SEALDD
traffic are transferred to UE via the two redundant PDU sessions. The SEALDD
client eliminates the redundant SEALDD packets and recovers the application
traffic, then sends the application traffic to the VAL client.
Figure 6.2.1-2: E2E redundant transmission traffic flow
Especially, Figure 6.2.1-3 shows the data traffic flow of E2E redundant
transmission for multiple VAL servers. In this scenario, SEALDD server and
SEALDD client use different SEALDD flow IDs and SEALDD traffic descriptors to
identify SEALDD traffic for different VAL servers.
Figure 6.2.1-3: E2E redundant transmission traffic flow for multiple VAL
servers
### 6.2.2 Solution description
#### 6.2.2.1 General
The following solution corresponds to the key issue #1 and key issue #8 on
Support for E2E redundant transport in clause 4.1 and clause 4.8.
In this solution, SA2 mechanisms to establish redundant PDU Sessions are
utilized to help establish the E2E redundant transport path. It is assumed
that the 5GS deployment supports establishing the redundant PDU Sessions.
Figure 6.2.2.1-1: E2E redundant transmission traffic flow transition in SEALDD
enabler
Figure 6.2.2.1-1 shows the data traffic transition of E2E redundant
transmission. For outbound data delivery, VAL application traffic is sent to
SEALDD enabler layer, the SEALDD enabler duplicates the application packets
and maps them into two SEALDD traffic (with the same Flow ID). Then according
to the SEALDD traffic descriptors of the SEALDD flow, the SEALDD traffic is
sent out with different destination addresses or ports and different source
addresses or ports. For inbound data delivery, two SEALDD traffic (with
different source addresses or ports and different destination addresses or
ports) are received. According to the SEALDD traffic descriptors, SEALDD
enabler decides they belong to the same Flow. Then after packet elimination
and reordering, the two SEALDD traffic is aggregated to one VAL application
traffic.
#### 6.2.2.2 Procedure
Pre-conditions:
1\. The VAL server can discover and select the SEALDD server by CAPIF
functions.
Figure 6.2.2.2-1: E2E redundant transmission path establishment
1\. The VAL server decides to use SEALDD service to help ensuring data
transmission quality for specific users or specific traffic and send a SEALDD
service subscription request to the SEALDD server discovered by CAPIF. The
request may include e.g. UE ID/address, identifiers of the application traffic
(e.g. VAL service ID, VAL server ID, the URI/address of the VAL server), QoS
requirements.
NOTE 1: If both signalling and data traffic of the VAL server is transmitted
via SEALDD service, the URI/address of the VAL server is not needed.
2\. Upon receiving the request, the SEALDD server decides to establish
redundant transmission path according to the QoS requirements and the network
status exposed by 5GS. The SEALDD server allocates two different addresses or
ports for the two redundant transmission paths and sends an AF request to 5GS
to create or update URSP rules as described in clause 4.15.6.10 of 3GPP TS
23.502 [7] for the UE(s) going to use the redundant transmission service. The
AF request includes Identifiers of the UE(s) and application traffic
descriptor containing the addresses or ports allocated by SEALDD server.
3\. If the processing of the request was successful, the SEALDD server
responds with a SEALDD service subscription response and indicates the VAL
server that redundant transmission service should be activated.
4\. [Optional] If the redundant transmission requirement is not preconfigured
or notified to the VAL client, the VAL server may notify the VAL client(s)
which are going to use the redundant transmission service through application
layer message.
NOTE 2: The VAL client can be preconfigured that the VAL service should always
be transmitted via redundant transmission. Or this application layer
notification may be notified to the UE in other period before the VAL
application traffic is really transmitted.
5\. The VAL client sends a SEALDD service request to SEALDD client with the
identifiers of the application traffic (e.g. VAL service ID, VAL server ID,
the URI/address of the VAL server) and requests to use E2E redundant
transmission for the application traffic.
6\. The SEALDD client discover and select the proper SEALDD server for the VAL
application.
NOTE 3: How to discover and select the proper SEALDD server is discussed in KI
#6 and KI #7.
7\. The SEALDD client sends SEALDD redundant transmission request to SEALDD
server. The request includes the SEALDD client ID, SEALDD flow ID, the
identifiers of the application traffic for SEALDD server to identify the
specific application traffic.
8\. Upon receiving the request, the SEALDD server sends SEALDD traffic
descriptor for redundant transmission of the SEALDD server side (i.e. the
addresses or ports for the redundant transmission paths allocated in step 2
and the transport protocol used for the SEALDD traffic) to SEALDD client.
9\. The UE uses the SEALDD traffic descriptor of the SEALDD server side to
trigger the two redundant PDU Sessions establishment procedure via 5GS as
specified in clause 5.33.2.1 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [6].
10\. [Optional] The SEALDD client sends SEALDD redundant transmission update
request to SEALDD server. The request includes the SEALDD client ID, the
SEALDD flow ID, the SEALDD traffic descriptors for redundant transmission of
the SEALDD client side (i.e. UE addresses and ports of the two redundant PDU
Sessions). The two redundant SEALDD traffic use the same SEALDD flow ID for
identification.
11\. [Optional] The SEALDD server establishes connection with VAL server for
the VAL client to transmit application traffic mapping to the redundant SEALDD
traffic. The SEALDD server sends response to SEALDD client. After this step,
the SEALDD client and SEALDD server both get the whole SEALDD traffic
descriptors (including the UE\'s addresses/ports and SEALDD server\'s
addresses/ports for the SEALDD traffic transmission). The SEALDD client and
SEALDD server store the mapping between the application traffic and SEALDD
traffic.
12\. The SEALDD client responds with a SEALDD service response.
NOTE 4: Step 10 and Step 11 are optional. If the redundant PDU sessions are
already established before step 7, the IP addresses of the UE may be notified
to the SEALDD server in step 7. In other cases, after the establishment of the
two redundant PDU sessions, the SEALDD client may communicate with SEALDD
server through the redundant PDU sessions to let the SEALDD server know the
UE\'s address(es) of the redundant PDU session to fulfil the traffic mapping
or the SEALDD client and SEALDD server may use other mapping mechanisms, it is
up to the transport protocol used by SEALDD client and SEALDD server for the
SEALDD traffic.
Upon receiving application traffic from VAL client, the SEALDD client
duplicates the application packets and maps them into two SEALDD traffic
SEALDD traffic descriptors or ports as negotiated with SEALDD server in step 8
and step 10. The two SEALDD traffic is sent through two redundant PDU sessions
to the SEALDD server. The SEALDD server maps the two SEALDD traffic to the
same application traffic according to the stored SEALDD traffic descriptors,
SEALDD client ID and SEALDD flow ID. After packet elimination and reordering
the SEALDD server sends the aggregated application traffic to VAL server via
the connection established in step 11\. The downlink application traffic sent
from VAL server to VAL client is processed similarly.
### 6.2.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses the open issues of KI #1 and KI #8 and provides the
enhanced E2E redundant transmission architecture to support SEALDD enabled E2E
redundant transmission. The SEALDD data traffic transition is also introduced
to clearly define the SEALDD enabler layer\'s functionality. The procedure
shows the detailed SEALDD connection establishment steps for a VAL server to
request redundant transport support from the SEALDD layer.
## 6.3 Solution #3: Client initiated request for redundant transport
### 6.3.1 Solution description
#### 6.3.1.1 General
The following solution is provided for key issue #1. It complements solution
#2.
#### 6.3.1.2 Procedure
Figure 6.3.1.2-1: Client initiated request for redundant transport
1\. A VAL client determines to use SEALDD service to ensure that the data
transmission quality for the application traffic is met and makes a service
request to the SEALDD client. The request includes the identifiers of the
application traffic (e.g. application ID, the VAL server ID/address), the QoS
requirements for the application traffic, etc.
2\. Upon receiving the request, the SEALDD client decides to establish
redundant transmission path according to the QoS requirements. If necessary,
the SEALDD client discovers a SEALDD server that supports redundant transport,
provides SEALDD services to the VAL server and from which it is authorized to
request redundant transport services.
NOTE 1: If SEALDD server discovery procedures in solution #7 or solution #8
are used, a precondition to the procedure is that the VAL server has
subscribed to the SEALDD server for SEALDD service. After the discovery
procedure as described in solution #7 or solution #8 is used, the SEALDD
client can determine the SEALDD server it is authorized to request redundant
transport services from.
3\. The SEALDD client sends a request to the SEALDD server to configure
redundant transport for the application traffic. The request includes the
SEALDD client ID, the SEALDD flow ID, the application ID, the UE ID/address,
the VAL server ID/address, the QoS requirements, the UE location, and a
request for redundant transport.
NOTE 2: The step also includes any additional authorization steps necessary
(i.e., by SEALDD server, VAL server) to determine whether the redundant
transmissions can be initiated on behalf of the VAL client.
4\. The SEALDD server allocates IP addresses and ports for the redundant
transport paths and initiates the AF traffic influence procedure with the 5G
network to create or update URSP rules for the UE. The request includes the UE
ID and application descriptor for the application traffic. The UE receives the
new or updated URSP rules from the 5G core network.
NOTE 3: The normative phase will determine whether and how NRM needs to
support this SEALDD functionality (e.g. by providing allocation of address).
5\. The SEALDD server responds to the SEALDD client providing the
configuration status. The response includes the IP addresses and ports for the
redundant transmission paths allocated in step 4. The SEALDD client and SEALDD
server store the mapping between the application traffic and SEALDD traffic.
6\. The UE establishes redundant PDU sessions with the 5G network using the
new or updated URSP rules.
7\. [Optional] The SEALDD client sends a SEALDD connection modification
request. The request includes the SEALDD client ID, the SEALDD flow ID, the
application traffic descriptors for redundant transmission of the SEALDD
client side (i.e. UE addresses and ports of the two redundant PDU Sessions).
The two redundant SEALDD traffic use the same SEALDD flow ID for
identification.
8\. [Optional] The SEALDD server establishes connection with VAL server for
the VAL client to transmit application traffic mapping to the redundant SEALDD
traffic. The SEALDD server sends a response to the SEALDD client. After this
step, the SEALDD client and SEALDD server both get the application traffic
descriptors (including the UE\'s addresses/ports and SEALDD server\'s
addresses/ports for the SEALDD traffic transmission). The SEALDD client and
SEALDD server store the mapping between the application traffic and SEALDD
traffic.
9\. The SEALDD client responds with a SEALDD service response.
The VAL client sends application traffic to the SEALDD client, which
duplicates the application data on the redundant PDU sessions. The SEALDD
server receives the redundant traffic and reassembles the data to send to the
VAL server. Similarly, the SEALDD server duplicates downlink traffic from the
VAL server and sends the data to the SEALDD client on the redundant PDU
sessions. The SEALDD client eliminates the redundant data and reassembles data
to send to the VAL client.
### 6.3.2 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses KI #1 and provides a procedure for a VAL client to
request redundant transport support from the SEALDD layer.
## 6.4 Solution #4: Data storage creation
### 6.4.1 Solution description
#### 6.4.1.1 General
The following solution corresponds to the key issue #5 on SEALDD enabled data
storage. In this solution, the stored data can be queried by the creator or
the other network functions for context or content transfer.
#### 6.4.1.2 Procedures
##### 6.4.1.2.1 Storage service creation request procedure
Figure 6.4.1.2.1-1: Storage service creation request
1\. The VAL client/server determines to use SEALDD storage service, which
could store/host data on behalf of the VAL client/server. The VAL
client/server makes a storage service creation request to the SEALDD server.
If the request is initiated by the VAL client, the request is first sent to
the SEALDD client hosted on the same UE and then forwarded to the SEALDD
server. The request includes the data to be stored and information associated
with the data, such as access control policy, expiration time of the storage,
etc. The VAL client/server may also specify in the request if/what management
or status information of the data storage is required (e.g., information about
how often the stored data is accessed).
2\. The SEALDD server processes the storage service creation request. If the
request is accepted, the SEALDD server configures the storage service based on
the request and stores the data at the storage server. If status information
of the stored data is requested, the SEALDD server will start to monitor the
status of the stored data, such as to track the accesses to the data for the
data access status.
3\. The SEALDD server sends a response to the requesting VAL client/server.
The response indicates if the request is accepted and the identifier of the
stored data (if applicable). Upon receiving the response, the requesting VAL
client/server may create a record for the stored data.
##### 6.4.1.2.2 Storage service query procedure
Pre-conditions:
1\. VAL client/server has stored data in SEALDD server.
2\. The consumer (e.g. SEALDD client/VAL server/other SEALDD server)
requesting the stored data has got the identifier of the stored data (e.g. via
application layer signalling or other mechanisms).
Figure 6.4.1.2.2-1: Access to stored data in SEALDD server
1\. The consumer (e.g. SEALDD client/VAL server/other SEALDD server) sends a
storage service query request to the SEALDD server with the identifier of the
stored data.
NOTE: The consumer requesting for the stored data can be the data storage
creator or other network functions.
2\. Upon receiving the request, the SEALDD server performs an authorization
check to verify if the requested data (according to the data access control
policy) can be accessed by the consumer. The SEALDD server will also check
whether the stored data is expired.
3\. If the verification was successful, the SEALDD server responds with the
requested data.
##### 6.4.1.2.3 Storage management procedure
Pre-conditions:
1\. The SEALDD service is configured to track and maintain data storage access
information (i.e. status information).
2\. A storage service creation request procedure from a VAL client/server to
the SEALDD storage server has been performed. The request includes a
subscription to data storage access information (i.e. status information).
Figure 6.4.1.2.3-1: Storage management procedure
1\. Based on the configured subscription for data storage status information,
the SEALDD server may send a notification to the requester with the collected
information.
2\. Based on the received stored data status information, the requesting VAL
client/server determines to perform a management operation, such as to update,
refresh, or delete the stored data. The VAL client/server sends a storage
management request to the SEALDD server to perform the determined management
operation.
3\. The SEALDD server processes the storage management request. If the request
is accepted, the SEALDD server performs the required management operation on
the stored data.
4\. The SEALDD server sends a response to the requesting VAL client/server
with the result of the management operation, which may include updated
information of the stored data.
### 6.4.2 Solution evaluation
The solution addresses Key Issue #5: SEALDD enabled Data Storage.
The solution defines APIs and procedures for the SEALDD server to support data
storage service and enable the VAL client/server to use the data storage
service provided by SEALDD. With this solution, a VAL client/server would be
able to store data at a storage server, query the stored data, receive status
information (e.g., data storage access information) of the stored data, manage
the stored data, and configure the storage service.
## 6.5 Solution #5: SEALDD adaptation in CAPIF
### 6.5.1 Solution description
The SEALDD server and VAL server may support CAPIF. When CAPIF is supported:
\- The SEALDD server shall support the CAPIF API provider domain functions
(i.e. CAPIF-2/2e (SEALDD-S interface), CAPIF-3/3e, CAPIF-4/4e and CAPIF-5/5e
as specified in 3GPP TS 23.222 [3]);
\- The VAL server shall act as API invoker and support the API invoker
functions (i.e. CAPIF-1/1e and CAPIF-2/2e (SEALDD-S interface) as specified in
3GPP TS 23.222 [3]); and
\- The SEALDD server shall act as API invoker and support the API invoker
functions (i.e. CAPIF-1/1e and CAPIF-2/2e (SEALDD-E interface) as specified in
3GPP TS 23.222 [3]).
Figure 6.5.1-1: SEALDD adaptation in the CAPIF architecture
The VAL server can discover a proper SEALDD server from CAPIF core function
with different discovery filters, e.g. expected AEF location. If a VAL server
is changed during UE mobility, a new SEALDD server may be discovered and
selected.
This is also applicable for EAS to discover and select an SEALDD server to use
SEALDD-S services, if any.
### 6.5.2 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses KI#6 about how to discover and select SEALDD server
for EAS.
This solution also addresses KI#7 about how to discover and select SEALDD
server for VAL server.
## 6.6 Solution #6: SEALDD integrating MSGin5G for message transfer
### 6.6.1 Architecture enhancements
MSGin5G functions described in 3GPP TS 23.554 [9] are integrated in SEALDD
enabler layer. As shown in Figure 6.6.1-1, MSGin5G client functionality is
integrated in SEALDD client, and MSGin5G server functionality is integrated in
SELADD server. SEALDD server and SEALDD client can use MSGin5G functionalities
to send SEALDD traffic in MSGin5G message format.
Fig 6.6.1-1 SEALDD integrating MSGin5G architecture
NOTE: Whether and how the integrated or standalone MSGin5G server function
invoke SEALDD service for data transfer is in the scope of 3GPP TS 23.554 [9].
### 6.6.2 Solution description
#### 6.6.2.1 General
The following solution corresponds to the KI #4 on SEALDD and MSGin5G.
MSGin5G provides a data delivery messaging service in 5GS especially for
enabling IoT device communications. It has been specified starting with Rel-17
in 3GPP TS 23.554 [9].
SEALDD is proposed as a generic data delivery enabler layer for all the
verticals utilizing SEAL. It is beneficial to deploy one unified data delivery
system suitable for all kinds of terminals to reduce the complexity of
vertical applications.
This solution proposes that SEALDD integrates MSGin5G functionalities in
SEALDD layer and provides MSGin5G transmission as an optional SEALDD service.
SEALDD traffic can be encapsulated and transmitted in the format of MSGin5G
messages.
Enhancements and improvements of MSGin5G in Rel-18 is needed to be studied in
5GMSG Service phase 2. This study only focuses on how to integrate the MSGin5G
functions.
#### 6.6.2.2 Procedure
##### 6.6.2.2.1 General
Following procedures are supported for SEALDD integrating MSGin5G functions:
\- SEALDD integrating MSGin5G for message transfer.
##### 6.6.2.2.2 SEALDD integrating MSGin5G for message transfer
The procedure of SEALDD MSGin5G for message transfer is shown in Figure
6.6.2.2.2-1
Pre-conditions:
1\. The VAL server has subscribed for SEALDD MSGin5G transferring service.
2\. SEALDD client and SEALDD server have established SEALDD connection for
data transferring.
Figure 6.6.2.2.2-1: SEALDD integrating MSGin5G for message transfer
0\. SEALDD client registers to SEALDD server for MSGin5G services as defined
in clause 8.2.1 of 3GPP TS 23.554 [9].
1a. For Uplink traffic, VAL client sends a request to SEALDD client with
application data and optionally the indicator for invoking the MSGin5G
transferring service to send a new MSGin5G message to the VAL server to
transfer the application data.
2a. Upon receiving the request from VAL client, the SEALDD client decides to
send the application data in MSGin5G format. SEALDD client invokes the
integrated MSGin5G client functionality to send an MSGin5G message with the
application data in the message payload to SEALDD server according to the
procedure defined in clause 8.3.2 of 3GPP TS 23.554 [9].
3a. Upon receiving the MSGin5G message, the SEALDD server delivers the MSGin5G
message to VAL server or parses the message and provides the content in the
payload of the message to the VAL server with SEALDD API.
1b. For Downlink traffic, VAL server initiates an API request to SEALDD server
with application data and optionally the indicator for invoking the MSGin5G
transferring service to send a new MSGin5G message to the VAL client to
transfer the application data.
2b. Upon receiving the request from VAL server, the SEALDD server decides to
send the application data in MSGin5G format. SEALDD server invokes the
integrated MSGin5G server functionality to send an MSGin5G message with the
application data in the message payload to SEALDD client according to the
procedure defined in clause 8.3.3 of 3GPP TS 23.554 [9].
3b. Upon receiving the MSGin5G message, the SEALDD client delivers the MSGin5G
message to VAL client or parses the message and provides the content in the
payload of the message to the VAL client with SEALDD API.
### 6.6.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses KI #4 and provides the enhanced SEALDD layer
integrating MSGin5G functionality to support SEALDD enabled MSGin5G message
transfer. SEALDD traffic can be encapsulated and transmitted in the format of
MSGin5G messages. SEALDD layer reuses the functionality defined in 3GPP TS
23.554 [9] and no enhancement to MSGin5G functionality is introduced in this
solution.
## 6.7 Solution #7: SEALDD server discovery and selection for specific VAL
server
### 6.7.1 Architecture enhancements
None.
### 6.7.2 Solution description
#### 6.7.2.1 General
The following solution corresponds to the KI #7 on SEALDD server discovery and
selection.
In this solution, VAL server discovers and selects SEALDD server by CAPIF
functions.
There can be scenarios of how SEALDD service is used:
\- Scenario (a): SEALDD service is used for both signalling and data traffic
transfer.
\- Scenario (b): SEALDD service is used only for data traffic transfer.
The SEALDD client can use existing mechanisms (e.g. DNS query) to find an
appropriate SEALDD server and establish the connection for VAL client and VAL
server. (This mechanism can be used for both scenario (a) and scenario (b).
The mechanisms such as DNS query mechanisms are outside the scope of SA6.
Specifically for scenario (b), the VAL server can notify the VAL client about
the SEALDD subscription information via application layer signalling.
#### 6.7.2.2 Procedure
##### 6.7.2.2.1 General
This procedure is used for scenario (b).
##### 6.7.2.2.2 SEALDD server discovery and selection for data traffic
transfer
Pre-conditions:
1\. The VAL server can discover and select the SEALDD server by CAPIF
functions.
2\. The VAL server decides to use SEALDD service for data traffic transfer.
3\. The VAL server and VAL client maintain application layer connection for
signalling traffic.
Figure 6.7.2.2.2-1: SEALDD server discovery and selection for data traffic
transfer
1\. The VAL server decides to use SEALDD service to enhance data transmission
and send a SEALDD service subscription request to the SEALDD server discovered
by CAPIF. The request may include e.g. VAL server ID/address, application
profile and SEALDD service type.
2\. Upon receiving the request, the SEALDD server performs an authorization
check to verify if the VAL server requested SEALDD service (mainly consider
e.g. application profile, SEALDD service type) can be provided by the SEALDD
server. If the verification was successful, the SEALDD server responds with a
SEALDD service subscription response.
3\. Since the VAL server and VAL client maintain application layer connection
for signalling traffic, VAL server can notify the VAL client with the SEALDD
subscription information (including e.g. the SEALDD server address, SEALDD
service type, etc.) via application layer signalling.
NOTE: Application layer signalling mechanism is outside the scope of SA6.
4\. The VAL client sends a request to SEALDD client to request for SEALDD
service. The request may include the SEALDD server address and may include the
related SEALDD service information.
5\. Upon receiving the request, the SEALDD client establishes the connection
with the SEALDD server for the SEALDD service.
6\. The SEALDD client uses the established connection for routing of the
outgoing application traffic to VAL server, as needed, and may provide
necessary notifications/responses to the VAL client.
### 6.7.3 Solution evaluation
This solution proposes two alternative ways to find SEALDD server for
VAL/SEALDD client in general scenario (none-EDN scenario). And this solution
addresses the second and third open issues of KI #7.
## 6.8 Solution #8: SEALDD server discovery and selection in EDN
### 6.8.1 Architecture enhancements
None.
### 6.8.2 Solution description
#### 6.8.2.1 General
The following solution corresponds to the key issue #6 on SEALDD coordination
with EEL.
There can be scenarios of how SEALDD service is used:
\- Scenario (a): SEALDD service is used for both signalling and data traffic
transfer.
\- Scenario (b): SEALDD service is used only for data traffic transfer.
NOTE: For the same VAL application, VAL servers for Scenario (a) and Scenario
(b) and VAL servers without SEALDD service may coexist in the same EDN. The
three types of servers may use different EAS IDs or other information (e.g.
EAS service, additional associated SEALDD server information) to differentiate
each other for EAS discovery.
After VAL server subscribes SEALDD service from the SEALDD server, the VAL
server registers associated SEALDD server information to EES. In EAS discovery
procedure, EEC can get the associated SEALDD server(s) information of the
desired the VAL server(s). Then SEALDD client can use the SEALDD server
information to establish the data delivery connection for the VAL client (AC)
and VAL server (EAS).
#### 6.8.2.2 Procedure
##### 6.8.2.2.1 General
Following procedures are supported for SEALDD server discovery and selection
for a specific VAL server deployed in EDN:
1\. VAL server (as an EAS) registered to EES with associated SEALDD server
address as VAL server endpoint in EAS profile.
2\. VAL server (as an EAS) registered to EES with associated SEALDD server
information;
The procedure 1 can be used for scenario (a). The procedure 2 can be used for
both scenario (a) and scenario (b). Alternatively for scenario (b), the VAL
client can also discover the VAL server using existing EAS discovery mechanism
specified in clause 8.5 of 3GPP TS 23.558 [10] and establish the application
layer signalling connection, then application layer signalling mechanism
proposed in solution #7 can be used.
##### 6.8.2.2.2 VAL server registered to EES with associated SEALDD server
address as VAL server endpoint
{width="3.6333333333333333in" height="2.2583333333333333in"}
Figure 6.8.2.2.2-1: VAL server registered to EES with associated SEALDD server
address as VAL server endpoint
1\. The VAL server can discover and select the SEALDD server (e.g. by CAPIF
functions).
2\. The VAL server decides to use SEALDD service to enhance data transmission
and send a SEALDD service subscription request to the SEALDD server.
3\. Upon receiving the request, the SEALDD server performs an authorization
check and responds with a SEALDD service subscription response.
4\. The VAL server (as an EAS) registers to the EES as described in clause
8.3.3.2.2 of 3GPP TS 23.558 [10] with the associated SEALDD server address as
EAS Endpoint in the EAS profile. The EAS ID used by VAL server in registration
may indicate the application service association between the VAL service and
SEALDD service implicitly or explicitly.
This procedure reuses the current procedure described in clause 8.3.3.2.2 of
3GPP TS 23.558 [10] .The VAL server (as an EAS) registers to the EES with the
associated SEALDD server address as the EAS Endpoint in the EAS profile. Then
the EEC can use the EAS discovery procedure defined in clause 8.5 of 3GPP TS
23.558 [10] to find the VAL server\'s address which is SEALDD server\'s
address. The VAL client can initiate SEALDD service via SEALDD client with the
SEALDD server\'s address. This procedure can be used for scenario (a).
##### 6.8.2.2.3 EAS registered to EES with associated SEALDD server
information
{width="3.6333333333333333in" height="2.2583333333333333in"}
Figure 6.8.2.2.3-1: EAS register to EES with associated SEALDD server
information
1\. The SEALDD server (as an EAS) registered to EES with SEALDD profile (i.e.
EAS profile) as an API provider.
2\. The EAS (VAL) server can discover and select the SEALDD server (e.g. by
CAPIF functions).
3\. The EAS (VAL server) decides to use SEALDD service to enhance data
transmission and send a SEALDD service subscription request to the SEALDD
server.
4\. Upon receiving the request, the SEALDD server performs an authorization
check and responds with a SEALDD service subscription response.
5\. The VAL server (as an EAS) registers to the EES as described in clause
8.3.3.2.2 of 3GPP TS 23.558 [10] with the associated SEALDD server information
(i.e. SEALDD service and SEALDD server address) as associated EAS ID and EAS
Endpoint in the EAS profile.
NOTE: The SEALDD server information can reuse the format defined in linked EAS
related solutions studied in FS_eEDGEAPP.
This procedure reuses the current procedure described in clause 8.3.3.2.2 of
3GPP TS 23.558 [10] .The VAL server (as an EAS) registers to the EES with the
associated SEALDD server information (i.e. SEALDD service and SEALDD server
address) as associated EAS ID and EAS Endpoint in the EAS profile. Then the
EEC can use the EAS discovery procedure defined in clause 8.5 of 3GPP TS
23.558 [10] to find the VAL server\'s address and associated SEALDD server\'s
address. The VAL client can initiate SEALDD service via SEALDD client with the
SEALDD server\'s address. For scenario (b), the VAL client can also establish
the connection with VAL server using the VAL server\'s information for
application signalling transfer and only use the SEALDD connection for
application data transfer.
Editor\'s note: Whether EAS discovery procedure should be enhanced is FFS.
### 6.8.3 Solution evaluation
This solution proposes to enhance EAS registration procedure to enable
VAL/SEALDD client to discover and select proper SEALDD server. And this
solution addresses the second open issue of KI #6 about \"whether and how to
enable the discovery and selection of a proper SEALDD server related to a
specific VAL server for a SEALDD client when both SEALDD server and VAL server
are deployed in EDN\".
## 6.9 Solution #9: SEALDD interaction for regular application traffic
transfer
### 6.9.1 Architecture enhancements
None.
### 6.9.2 Solution description
#### 6.9.2.1 General
The following solution corresponds to the KI #8 on SEALDD data distribution
and the KI #3 on QoS guarantee.
The SEALDD client and SEALDD server interact with each other to configure the
data delivery connection for regular application layer transfer. This solution
is for the scenario that VAL server sends all the traffic (including
signalling traffic and data traffic) to VAL client via SEALDD service and the
VAL server does not maintain direct application layer connection with the VAL
client. By consuming the SEALDD service for application layer signalling
transfer, the VAL server does not need to maintain application layer
signalling connection with the clients and only communicates with SEALDD
server to serve the clients.
NOTE: This solution is used for regular connection establishment and is not
used for redundant transmission.
6.9.2.2 Procedure
Pre-conditions:
1\. The VAL server can discover and select the SEALDD server by CAPIF
functions.
Figure 6.9.2.2-1: SEALDD interaction for application traffic transfer
1\. The VAL server decides to use SEALDD service for application traffic
transfer and send a SEALDD service subscription request to the SEALDD server.
The service request includes the identifiers of the application traffic (e.g.
VAL service ID, VAL server ID), and optionally, the QoS information for the
application traffic, e.g. QoS requirements.
NOTE 1: The VAL service ID may indicate the service type of application
traffic (e.g. video, mission critical data, etc.).
2\. Upon receiving the request, the SEALDD server performs an authorization
check. If authorization is successful, the SEALDD server allocates a specific
address or port used for SEALDD traffic transfer with the incoming SEALDD
client(s) for the VAL server. The SEALDD server may send the AF request to
provide the required QoS information to 5GC via N33/N5, as defined in clause
5.2.6.9 and in clause 5.2.5.3 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [7]. The AF request includes
the application traffic descriptor containing the address or ports allocated
by SEALDD server, and the QoS information for application traffic. The QoS
information may be allocated by SEALDD server according to VAL service ID for
different service type of application traffic if the QoS information is not
provided by VAL server
3\. The SEALDD server responds with a SEALDD service subscription response.
4\. The VAL client sends a SEALDD service request to SEALDD client with the
identifiers of the application traffic (e.g. VAL service ID, VAL server ID).
5\. The VAL/SEALDD client discover and select the proper SEALDD server for the
VAL application as described for scenario (a) in sol #7 and sol #8. After this
step, the VAL server is discovered and selected along with the associated
SEALDD server, the SEALDD client can get the SEALDD server\'s address.
6\. The SEALDD client sends SEALDD connection establishment request to SEALDD
server with the SEALDD client ID, the SEALDD flow ID, and the identifiers of
the application traffic.
NOTE 2: The SEALDD flow ID is used by the SEALDD client and SEALDD server to
identify different application traffic, and it is mapped to the identifiers of
the application traffic.
7\. The SEALDD server responds to the SEALDD client with the SEALDD traffic
descriptor of SEALDD server side (e.g. address/port allocated in step 2,
transport layer protocol) mapping to the application traffic.
8\. The SEALDD client uses the SEALDD traffic descriptor of SEALDD server side
for SEALDD connection establishment. The SEALDD server stores the SEALDD
client ID, SEALDD flow ID to identify the SEALDD traffic and establishes
connection with VAL server for the VAL client to transmit application traffic
mapping to the SEALDD traffic.
NOTE 3: If the UE\'s address for SEALDD traffic transfer is different from the
address used in the control plane interaction (step 5 and 6), another SEALDD
interaction procedure may be triggered to notify the SEALDD server about the
address/port used by the SEALDD client for SEALDD traffic transfer. Or the
SEALDD server reuses the SEALDD client\'s address used in step 5 for SEALDD
traffic transfer.
After this step, the SEALDD client and SEALDD server both get the whole SEALDD
traffic descriptor (including the UE\'s address/port and SEALDD server\'s
address/port for the SEALDD traffic transmission). The SEALDD client and
SEALDD server store the mapping between the application traffic and SEALDD
traffic.
Upon receiving application traffic from VAL client, the SEALDD client maps it
into SEALDD traffic with SEALDD traffic descriptor as negotiated with SEALDD
server. The SEALDD server maps the SEALDD traffic to the application traffic
according to the stored SEALDD traffic descriptor, SEALDD client ID, SEALDD
flow ID. The SEALDD server sends the recovered application traffic to VAL
server via the connection established in step 7\. The downlink application
traffic sent from VAL server to VAL client is processed similarly.
After the connection establishment, the VAL server can communicate with VAL
client for application layer signalling traffic transfer via the established
SEALDD connection. The VAL server can also use the same connection for data
traffic transfer or initiate another SEALDD connection for data traffic
transfer, it is up to the VAL server\'s requirement.
### 6.9.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses the open issue of KI #8 for regular transmission
service and the open issue of KI #3 for guaranteed quality. This solution
proposed interactions between SEALDD client and SEALDD server to enable
regualr application traffic transfer, and also proposed interaction between
SEALDD server and 5GS to perform QoS request and QoS authorization for VAL
server via N33/N5.
## 6.10 Solution #10: SEALDD server relocation
### 6.10.1 Solution description
#### 6.10.1.1 General
As describe in Figure 4.2-2 of KI#2, the SEALDD server may be relocated due to
UE mobility or load re-balance. KI#7 also discussed open issue about SEALDD
server discovery and selection in case of SEALDD server change.
If SEALDD server is adapted to EDGEAPP as an EAS, the EAS relocation procedure
can be used to support SEALDD server relocation for both UE mobility and
SEALDD server load re-balance. If SEALDD is not adapted to EDGEAPP, for UE
mobility, the SEALDD client can discover (e.g. using DNS) a new SEALDD server
in the target area and establish a new SEALDD communication channel including
the old SEALDD communication channel information. For load re-balance, the
SEALDD server can discover (e.g. using DNS) an equivalent SEALDD server and
communicate with the new SEALDD server.
Based on existing service continuity mechanism supported by SA2 (e.g.
BP/ULCL), during SEALDD server relocation with UPF change, the new UPF takes
care of the existing unfinished application traffic flow towards the old VAL
server and inter-UPF tunnel is used to forward the traffic. For new
application traffic flow which may have UE\'s new IP address as source IP
address, the new SEALDD server sends it directly to the new VAL server.
For SEALDD server relocation, the inter-SEALDD server communication via
SEALDD-E reference point is needed, which transfers the SEALDD context from
the old SEALDD server to the new SEALDD server.
The following procedures detail the EDGEAPP ACT part between old SEALDD server
(i.e. S-EAS) and new SEALDD server (i.e. T-EAS) as described in 3GPP TS 23.558
[10], clause 8.8.2.2 to clause 8.8.2.6. The pre-condition used in the
following procedure is that new SEALDD server endpoint is discovered and
selected, and either the old SEALDD server endpoint is available in the new
SEALDD server or the new SEALDD server endpoint is available in the old SEALDD
server.
NOTE 1: The way to provide SEALDD server endpoint can be via VAL server or via
EES, and discovery of the new SEALDD server can utilize solution #8. The ACT
procedure in the VAL server is also executed according to EDGEAPP ACR scenario
but its detail is out of scope of SA6.
NOTE 2: The context transfer scope (service level and/or UE level) of SEALDD
service subscription depends on the API details of the service subscription
over SEALDD-S reference point, which will be decided in the normative work.
#### 6.10.1.2 SEALDD context transfer without IP replacement
The following figure describes SEALDD context transfer procedure in pull (step
1a and 2a) or push (step 1b and 2b) operation.
The transferred SEALDD context includes the service subscription information
created upon VAL server\'s interaction for requesting SEALDD transmission
service (e.g. step 1 and 2 in solution #9), and also the SEALDD client and
SEALDD server communication tunnel management information (e.g. UE IP address)
which is created upon SEALDD client\'s interaction for requesting data
transmission (e.g. step 5 and 6 in solution #9).
NOTE 1: Other content of the SEALDD context is to be determined in the
normative work.
The new SEALDD server, after receiving the SEALDD context from the old SEALDD
server, may update the connection info in step 3, e.g. update the allocated IP
address and port for SEALDD-Uu communication. Then the SEALDD client
acknowledges the received SEALDD Connection info update notification in step
4.
NOTE 2: The SEALDD client has subscribed to receive the connection info update
notification in SEALDD connection establishment request.
After SEALDD client is aware of the new SEALDD-Uu IP address and port, it
starts to send new SEALDD traffic (received from the VAL client) over the new
connection. The new SEALDD server maps the received SEALDD traffic to the
application traffic according to the SEALDD traffic descriptor and VAL service
ID. The new SEALDD server sends the recovered application traffic to new VAL
server. The downlink application traffic sent from the new VAL server to VAL
client is processed similarly.
NOTE 3: The new VAL server's end point for receiving uplink data from SEALDD
server can be transferred as part of the SEALDD context data as described in
solution #11.
Figure 6.10.1.2-1: SEALDD context transfer without IP replacement
#### 6.10.1.3 SEALDD context transfer with IP replacement
There is an EAS IP replacement feature defined in 3GPP TS 23.548 [8] which
allow an AF to perform server change (e.g. due to load re-balance) without
impacting the UE (i.e. UE is not aware of EAS change). In Figure 6.10.1.3-1,
the differences comparing to Figure 6.10.1.2-1 are:
\- Additional transport layer context is transferred from the old SEALDD
server to new SEALDD server in step 1 and 2; and
\- instead of notifying the SEALDD client about the new SEALDD server IP
address and port, the AF traffic influence with EAS IP replacement is
performed either by the old or new SEALDD server towards the 3GPP Core Network
as described in 3GPP TS 23.548 [8], clause 6.3.3.2.
Since the UE is not aware of EAS change, the new SEALDD traffic (due to new
VAL traffic sent by VAL client) is sent by UPF towards the new SEALDD server,
this handling in UPF is agnostic to the new SEALDD server.
Figure 6.10.1.3-1: SEALDD context transfer with IP replacement
The EAS IP replacement feature requires support of TCP/TLS/QUIC context
transfer between EASs. One possible impact for the SEALDD discovery using EEL
can be an enhanced EAS profile with such a seamless transport service
continuity capability during EAS registration procedure, so that the old
SEALDD server can discover new SEALDD servers (i.e. T-EASs in EDGEAPP context)
supporting TCP/TLS/QUIC context transfer.
### 6.10.2 Solution evaluation
This solution address KI#7 about SEALDD server discovery and selection, the
T-EAS discovery procedure is utilized to facilitate SEALDD layer service
continuity.
This solution addresses KI#2 to support SEALDD enabled transport layer status
coordination for service continuity utilizing SA2 defined feature for EAS IP
replacement. Impact for EAS registration is identified to enable a proper
T-EAS discovery supporting smooth transport service continuity.
## 6.11 Solution #11: SEALDD support of UE\'s service continuity
### 6.11.1 Solution description
#### 6.11.1.1 General
The following solution is provided for key issue #2. It complements the SEALDD
flow ID in solutions #2 and #9.
An Application Client on a UE, acting as VAL client, establishes
communications with VAL Server 1. The VAL client has established a SEALDD flow
to send application data to VAL Server 1. The UE moves and the 5GC notifies
VAL Server 1 of the UE\'s mobility. EES 1 detects that ACR is required and
initiates ACR between Val Servers acting as EASs. In addition to the ACR steps
already specified in 3GPP TS 23.558[10], two new SEALDD procedural steps are
proposed as follows:
\- A notification from VAL Server 1 to SEALDD server 1 of an ongoing ACR,
before starting ACT.
\- A procedure (termed SEALDD flow transfer) where SEALDD server 1 transfers
the SEALDD flow to SEALDD server 2 such that the application data can be sent
to VAL Server 2.
#### 6.11.1.2 Procedure
Pre-conditions:
1\. VAL Server 1, acting as EAS 1, subscribes to receive ACR notifications
from EES 1.
2\. VAL server 1 and VAL Server 2 have performed SEALDD Server discovery, and
acting as EASs, registered to corresponding EES with the associated SEALDD
server information.
Assumptions:
1\. When VAL servers are registered as EASs, EESs are able to determine,
during ACR from a SEALDD-enabled VAL server, a target VAL server which is also
SELDD-enabled. In other words, the Edge Enablement Layer can distinguish
between a VAL server which uses SEALDD (termed SEALDD-enabled) and another VAL
server for the same application which is not SEALDD-enabled.
Figure 6.11.1.2-1: SEALDD support of UE\'s service continuity
1\. An application client on a UE, acting as a VAL client, establishes a
SEALDD flow over SEALDD-UU to send application data to VAL Server 1. SEALDD
client and SEALD server 1 maintain SEALDD flow information (e.g., SEALDD flow
ID, VAL IDs/addresses, VAL requirements).
2\. Application data is sent via the SEALDD flow between the VAL Client and
VAL Server 1.
3\. The UE moves and generates a mobility event in the 5GC.
4\. The UE\'s mobility event triggers the execution of an Application Context
Relocation (ACR) procedure as described in 3GPP TS 23.558[10]. Any of the ACR
scenarios detailed in 3GPP TS 23.558[10] clauses 8.8.2.2-8.8.2.6 may occur. In
this step, the first three phases of the ACR procedure are performed, up to
ACT. In this step VAL Server 1 acts as EAS 1 and VAL Server 2 as EAS 2,
therefore participating in corresponding signaling. VAL server 2 has been
selected as SEALDD-enabled server meeting the ACR criteria to be the target
EAS (see precondition 1).
5\. Before triggering ACT, VAL Server 1 sends a SEALDD notification of ACR
event to SEALDD Server 1.
6\. In response to the SEALDD notification of ACR event, SEALDD server 1
transfers the SEALDD flow to SEALDD server 2 which serves VAL Server 2. SEALDD
server 1 sends SEALDD flow information (e.g., SEALDD flow ID, VAL
IDs/addresses, VAL requirements) to SEALDD server 2. Network connection is
established between SEALDD client and SEALDD server 2. As part of this
establishment, SEALDD server 1 or SEALDD server 2 may apply the functionality
specified in 3GPP TS 23.502 [7] clause 5.2.6.7 for AF traffic influence,
providing the N6 routing information for the SEALDD client and SEALDD server 2
(if applicable). A notification may also be sent to the SEALDD client to
notify it that the SEALDD flow has been transferred to SEALDD server 2.
NOTE 1: Other information to be exchanged between SEALDD Servers during SEALDD
context transfer are to be determined in the normative phase. The information
required enables the recipient SEALDD Server2 to establish the network
connection with SEALDD client 1 and to provide the SEALDD flow with same
value-add functionality as the source SEALDD Server 1.
NOTE 2: Solution #10 describes SEALDD context management applicable for this
step. Additional details describing how to manage SEALDD connections and
traffic flows during/after context transfer are to be determined in the
normative phase.
7\. SEALDD Server 1 notifies VAL Server 1 of the completion of the SEALDD flow
transfer.
8\. VAL Server 1 (acting as EAS1) and VAL Server 2 (acting as EAS 2) execute
the Application Context Transfer (ACT) procedure step corresponding to the
pending ACR scenario (3GPP TS 23.558[10] clauses 8.8.2.2‑8.8.2.6).
NOTE 2: The ACT procedure referenced is not in scope of SA6 specifications,
but it is implicitly defined via its use in 3GPP TS 23.558[10]. This
specification leaves unchanged the ACT assumptions and descriptions from 3GPP
TS 23.558[10].
9\. The post-ACR clean-up phase is executed, as described in the corresponding
ACR scenario (3GPP TS 23.558[10] clauses 8.8.2.2-8.8.2.6)
10\. The application data from the VAL Client is sent via the SEALDD flow
(with SEALDD server 2) to VAL Server 2.
NOTE 3: The SEALDD-UU client endpoint of the SEALDD flow in this step is
maintained the same as in step1.
### 6.11.2 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses KI#2 to support SEALDD enabled transport layer status
coordination for service continuity utilizing SEALDD flow management and
context transfer.
## 6.12 Solution #12: SEALDD enabled data transmission quality measurement
### 6.12.1 Architecture enhancements
None.
### 6.12.2 Solution description
#### 6.12.2.1 General
The following solution corresponds to the key issue #3 about Support for data
transmission quality measurement. The SEALDD client and SEALDD server is
enhanced to carry out the data transmission quality measurement.
#### 6.12.2.2 Procedure
Pre-conditions:
1\. The SEALDD server and SEALDD client are synchronized to the time source
provided by 5GS as specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [6].
2\. The VAL server discovers and selects the SEALDD server by CAPIF functions.
{width="4.7in" height="3.7333333333333334in"}
Figure 6.12.2.2-1 SEALDD enabled data transmission quality monitoring
1\. The VAL server sends a SEALDD service subscription request to the SEALDD
server. The service request includes the identifiers of the application
traffic (e.g. VAL service ID, VAL server ID), requirement of transmission
quality measurement (e.g. latency, bitrate, packet loss rate).
2\. Upon receiving the request, the SEALDD server performs an authorization
check. If authorization is successful, the SEALDD server responds with a
SEALDD service subscription response.
3\. SEALDD connection establishment steps as proposed in clause 6.9.2.2.
4\. SEALDD server initiates the UL/DL packet delay measurement based on the
subscription request from VAL server. The SEALDD server encapsulates the DL
monitoring packet (i.e. DL SEALDD packet with SEALDD DL monitoring header and
VAL traffic as payload, or dummy DL SEALDD packet generated for data
transmission quality monitoring) with local time T1 when the SEALDD server
sends out the DL monitoring packets.
5\. Similarly, the SEALDD client encapsulates the UL monitoring packet (i.e.
UL SEALDD packet with SEALDD UL monitoring header and VAL traffic as payload,
or dummy UL SEALDD packet generated for data transmission quality monitoring)
with local time T2 when the SEALDD client receives the DL monitoring packet
and local time T3 when the SEALDD client sends out the UL monitoring packet.
6\. The SEALDD server records the local time T4 when the SEALDD server
receives the UL monitoring packet and calculates the packet delay with T1, T2,
T3, T4. The SEALDD server can also calculate the bitrate and packet loss rate
over a certain period over a specific SEALDD connection by recording the
status of the SEALDD packets carrying VAL traffic or dummy SEALDD packets
generated for transmission quality measurement.
7\. The SEALDD server reports the data transmission quality measurement
results (e.g. packet delay, bitrate, packet error rate) to the VAL server
according to the subscription.
NOTE: The SEALDD server can provide the related API to allow other consumers
(e.g. VAL server, SEALDD server, SEAL server, etc) to invoke to query the
measurement result. Any SEAL server (e.g. NSCE server) can consume the
measurement service by acting like VAL server.
### 6.12.3 Solution evaluation
By encapsulating the UL/DL monitoring packet in SEALDD client and SEALDD
server, this solution addresses the first open issue of KI#3 to support the
data transmission quality measurement (e.g. latency, bitrate, packet loss
rate) in SEALDD layer. The detailed API defination of transmission quality
report will be determined in normative work.
## 6.13 Solution #13: SEALDD support for data transmission quality guarantee
with redundant transport
### 6.13.1 Solution description
#### 6.13.1.1 General
The support of data transmission quality measurements enables SEALDD clients/
servers to determine if actions are needed to meet SEALDD service guarantees.
In this solution, the redundant trasport mechanism offered by the Core Network
is used by SEALDD to improve data transmission quality.
NOTE 1: This solution assumes that SEALDD services are offered in deployments
with optimal SEALDD Server to VAL Server connections.
NOTE 2: Any neccesary mapping between data transmission quality criteria and
the measurments neccesary to be accesible to SEALDD to enable this solution
are to be addressed in the normative phase.
##### 6.13.1.2.1 Procedure
This procedure describes the use of redundant transport as an action to meet
connection reliability requirements specified by a SEALDD service policy.
Pre-conditions:
1\. A SEALDD service policy, which includes data transmission quality
guarantees, is available to SEALDD server, SEALDD client and/or VAL client.
The policy can be used to configure measurements and determine the necessary
SEALDD layer actions for meeting the service policy requirements.
2\. The SEALDD Client is authorized to request redundant transport services on
behalf of the VAL client.
Figure 6.13.1.2.1-1: SEALDD data transmission quality guarantee with redundant
transport
1\. A VAL client and server establish a SEALDD connection to transport the
application data. As part of the connection establishment, the SEALDD service
policy in precondition 1 is shared so that it is available to both the SEALDD
client and the SEALDD Server. The SEALDD Server may use the data transmission
quality requirements of this policy in conjunction with other local policies
pre-provisioned at the SEALDD server. As a result, SEALDD measurements are
configured at the SEALDD client as described in solution #12 and the SEALDD
client receives measurement reports containing SEALDD flow ID, a report
identifier, the measurement identifier, the measurement values, and a
timestamp.
2\. Based on measurement reports, the SEALDD client determines to perform an
action do that the data transmission quality requirements of the policy are
met. Specifically, the SEALDD client determines to trigger the establishment
of redundant transport services.
3\. The SEALDD client uses steps 3 to 6 of the procedure of solution #3 to
request the use of redundant transport service from the SEALDD server. As part
of this step, the UE may end the initial PDU session and establish redundant
PDU sessions.
4\. The SEALDD client updates the SEALDD connection with the redundant
transport information, i.e., the UE addresses and ports for the redundant PDU
sessions, the SEALDD flow identifier, and the application traffic descriptors.
The SEALDD client also configures the parameters for enabling any necessary
SEALDD measurements for the new transport.
5\. The SEALDD server sends a response to the SEALDD client and configures the
necessary measurements for the new transports.
6\. The SEALDD server may subscribe to receive notifications from the 5G
network for user plane measurements (e.g., the network latency requirements
specified in 3GPP TS 28.541[13]), network analytics (as specified in 3GPP TS
28.104 [12], etc.).
7\. The SEALDD client and server handle data duplication and elimination of
application traffic on the redundant transport and the necessary measurements
are collected by the SEALDD client and server.
### 6.13.2 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses the KI#3 open issue supporting data transmission in
SEALDD enabler layer with guaranteed quality. The solution uses the SEALDD
measurement capabilities (e.g. as described in solution #12) for triggering
actions determined based on SEALDD service policies. Specifically, the SEALDD
layer uses the Core Network redundant transport mechanism for maintaining
guaranteed SEALDD data transmission quality requirements.
## 6.14 Solution #14: Data distribution management in SEALDD
### 6.14.1 Solution description
#### 6.14.1.1 General
The regulator manages Data Delivery (DD) policy provisioning in its SEALDD
server. During the application communication between VAL client (provider A)
and VAL server (provider B), the DD policy is enforced by the SEALDD server
(regulator).
NOTE: Provider A and Provider B can be the same provider.
Figure 6.14.1.1-1: General communication between the VAL client and VAL server
via SEALDD
#### 6.14.1.2 DD connection establishment
Pre-conditions:
1\. The SEALDD server (regulator) has DD policies received from the VAL server
(regulator).
2\. The VAL server (provider B) and SEALDD client has subscribed to receive
notifications from SEALDD server (regulator).
Figure 6.14.1.2-1: Policy enforced by SEALDD server (regulator) for
connectivity
1\. When the time for data transmission is about to start, the SEALDD server
(regulator) enforces the policy to trigger DD connection establishment. If
spatial condition for UE is provided, the SEALDD server (regulator) also
ensures the UE's location requirement is satisfied when establishing DD
connection (e.g. by using NEF service for monitoring UE location or SEAL
location service for UE entering area of interest).
2\. If there is a special routing requirement for SEALDD user plane traffic
(e.g. running on a specific slice and DNN), the SEALDD server (regulator)
interacts with 3GPP CN to provision service specific parameters with NEF as
described in 3GPP TS 23.502 [7], clause 4.15.6.10 and clause 4.15.6.7. If
there are QoS requirement in the DD policy, the SEALDD server also apply QoS
to ensure the quality for SEALDD traffic by utilizing NEF/PCF/NRM/EES service
for QoS adjustment. If the DD policy specifies failure detection report, the
SEALDD server may subscribe to CN analytics (e.g. DN performance analytics)
from NEF/NWDAF and further notify data delivery status of application traffic
to VAL client of provider A (via SEALDD client) and VAL server (provider B)
based on analytics result.
3-4. The SEALDD server allocates an IP address and port for sending and
receiving packet over SEAL-S reference point, then SEALDD server sends DD
connection establishment notification to the VAL server (provider B) with VAL
service ID, the IP address and port. The notification is acknowledged by the
VAL server (provider B).
5-6. The SEALDD server allocates an IP address and port for sending and
receiving packet over SEAL-Uu reference point, then SEALDD server sends DD
connection establishment notification to the SEALDD client with VAL service
ID, the IP address and port. The notification is acknowledged by the SEALDD
client. UE IP address (and port) may be included by the SEALDD client in the
notification acknowledgement or sent in a separate update message by SEALDD
client if a different UE IP address is to be used in DD connection user plane.
NOTE 1: Step 3 and step 5 can be done in parallel.
NOTE 2: Step 5 can be sent via PDU session (if exist) or via application
triggering (if no PDU session exists).
7\. The SEALDD client further notifies the VAL client (provider A) about the
DD connection being established.
Upon receiving application traffic from VAL client (not shown in the figure),
the SEALDD client sends it to SEALDD server (regulator) in SEALDD traffic. The
SEALDD server (regulator) identifies application traffic based on the VAL
service ID and further sends the application traffic to VAL server (provider
B). The downlink application traffic sent from VAL server to VAL client is
processed similarly.
#### 6.14.1.3 Data delivery policy deletion
Pre-conditions:
1\. The VAL server (provider B) and SEALDD client has subscribed to receive
notifications from SEALDD server (regulator).
Figure 6.14.1.3-1: DD connection deletion
1\. SEALDD server decides to remove the connection. Such a decision may be
based on decision in SEALDD server in the following cases:
a. DD policy removal or validity time expiration;
b. DD policy specified end time reached for DD communication;
c. UE is leaving the area of interest (if spatial condition for UE is provided
in the policy).
2-3. The SEALDD server (regulator) notifies DD connection deletion to the VAL
server (provider B). The notification is acknowledged by the VAL server
(provider B). The application traffic is stopped on both sides.
4-5. The SEALDD server (regulator) notifies DD connection deletion to the
SEALDD client. The notification is acknowledged by the SEALDD client. The
application traffic is stopped on both sides.
NOTE 1: Step 2 and step 4 can be done in parallel.
NOTE 2: Step 5 can be sent via PDU session (if exist) or via application
triggering (if no PDU session exists).
6\. The SEALDD client further notifies the VAL client (provider A) about the
DD connection being removed. The application traffic is stopped on both sides.
7\. If a special routing requirement for SEALDD user plane traffic was
provided to 3GPP CN, the SEALDD server (regulator) interacts with 3GPP CN to
remove service specific parameters with NEF as described in 3GPP TS 23.502
[7], clause 4.15.6.7.
> 8\. The SEALDD server removes the DD connection (i.e. deletes the DD
> connection context).
### 6.14.2 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses KI #8 about the SEALDD data distribution control
between the VAL client and VAL server. The policy control in SEALDD helps to
manage the SEALDD connectivity for application traffic transfer with QoS and
status notification.
This solution also addresses KI #3 about how to support data transmission in
SEALDD enabler layer with guaranteed quality by providing QoS for application
traffic (i.e. using NEF/PCF/NRM/EES QoS service).
## 6.15 Solution #15: SEALDD enabled data transmission via N6 Tunnel
### 6.15.1 Architecture enhancements
None.
### 6.15.2 Solution description
#### 6.15.2.1 General
This solution addresses the key issue #3. In this solution, it is proposed to
enable the SEALDD server to transfer data via N6 tunnel and provide traffic
information in the N6 tunnelling header to provide guaranteed quality for
specific VAL services.
NOTE: This solution is based on the solution #22 of SA2\'s 3GPP TR 23.700-60
[11].
#### 6.15.2.2 Procedure
Figure 6.15.2.2-1 SEALDD enabled data transmission via N6 Tunnel
This procedure reuses the existing steps described in solution #9. The
enhancement is described as the following steps:
1-2. The VAL server may invoke a new API for N6 tunnel data transfer for
specific VAL service and the SEALDD server allocates a specific SEALDD traffic
descriptor of SEALDD server side for SEALDD traffic transferring via N6
tunnel.
6\. The SEALDD server selects a preconfigured N6 tunnel for sending the SEALDD
traffic.
7\. The SEALDD server responds to the SEALDD client with the SEALDD traffic
descriptor of SEALDD server side (e.g. address/port allocated in step 2,
transport layer protocol) mapping to the application traffic.
8\. The SEALDD client uses the SEALDD traffic descriptor of SEALDD server side
for SEALDD connection establishment. The SEALDD server stores the SEALDD
client ID, SEALDD flow ID to identify the SEALDD traffic and establishes
connection with VAL server for the VAL client to transmit application traffic
mapping to the SEALDD traffic. SEALDD server will maintain the mapping between
the SEALDD client ID, SEALDD flow ID and N6 tunnel, the mapping between N6
tunnel and VAL server.
Upon receiving application traffic from VAL server, the SEALDD server maps it
into SEALDD traffic with SEALDD traffic descriptor as negotiated with SEALDD
client. When transmitting through the 5GC network, the SEALDD server sends the
SEALDD traffic towards the UPF via N6 tunnel. The SEALDD server will also
include traffic specific information (e.g. packet priority, packet type) in
the N6 tunnel header. The UPF will extract the information from the N6 packets
header and may optimize the traffic transmission by sending that information
to the RAN side. When receiving the SEALDD traffic, the SEALDD client maps the
SEALDD traffic to the application traffic according to the stored mapping
relationship. The SEALDD server sends the recovered application traffic to VAL
server. The uplink application traffic sent from VAL client to VAL server is
processed similarly.
NOTE: Only downlink data sent from the SEALDD server will be encapsulated with
traffic specific information (e.g. packet priority, packet type) in the N6
tunnel header. Uplink data may be transmitted via the N6 tunnel without
special information in the N6 packets header.
### 6.15.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses the open issue of KI #3 on data transmission quality
guarantee. It enables the VAL server to use the SEALDD to transmit data via N6
tunnel towards the 5GC and provide traffic information in the N6 tunnelling
header to get guaranteed data transmission quality for specific VAL services.
## 6.16 Solution #16: SEALDD enabled application context transfer
### 6.16.1 Architecture enhancements
None.
### 6.16.2 Solution description
#### 6.16.2.1 General
This solution addresses the key issue #5. In this solution, the SEAL DD server
provides an application context transfer service to the application layer.
With this new delivery service, the ASP can transfer the application context
via the SEAL DD layer.
#### 6.16.2.2 Procedure
Pre-conditions:
\- The source VAL server already obtains the serving target SEAL DD server of
the target VAL server.
{width="4.025in" height="3.691666666666667in"}
Figure 6.16.2.2-1 SEALDD enabled application context transfer
1\. The target VAL server subscribes the application context transfer event
from its serving SEAL DD server.
2\. The source VAL server determines to use the application context transfer
service provided by the SEAL DD server. The source VAL server invokes the
application context transfer creation request, the target VAL server and
target SEAL DD server information is included.
3\. The source SEAL DD server determines to create a delivery connection with
the target SEAL DD server.
4\. The source SEALDD server sends the SEAL DD connection establishment
request towards the target SEAL DD server. The target VAL server is included.
Other information related to the connection is also provided, e.g., the
supporting protocols for this delivery. The target SEAL DD server accepts the
request and returns the SEAL DD connection establishment response. The
selected protocol, port number for this connection is included. The target
SEAL DD server allocates the storage for the target VAL server.
5\. The source SEALDD server allocates storage for the source VAL server and
return the URL for application context storage, if the application context URL
is not provided from the source VAL server.
6\. If the SEAL DD storage service is used, the source VAL server puts the
application context to the destination storage via the storage management
procedure as described in Sol#4.
7\. If the SEAL DD storage service is used, the application context is
delivered from the source SEAL DD server towards the target SEAL DD server,
and further fetched by the target VAL server via the storage management
procedure as described in Sol#4.
### 6.16.3 Solution evaluation
This solution enables the VAL server to use the SEAL DD provided application
context delivery service to transfer the application context.
## 6.17 Solution #17: E2E redundant transmission path establishment with dual
UE -- dual UP
### 6.17.1 Solution description
The following solution corresponds to the key issue #1 on Support for E2E
redundant transport in clause 4.1.
In this solution, the SA2 architecture of reliability group-based redundancy
concept as defined in Annex F of 3GPP TS 23.501 [6] is utilized to help
establish the E2E disjoint redundant UP paths in the MNO network. It is
assumed that the 5GS deployment supports the reliability group-based
redundancy concept.
#### 6.17.1.1 Configuration enhancements
Figure 6.17.1.1-1 shows the used architecture of E2E redundant transmission
path establishment with dual UE -- dual UP according to Annex F in 3GPP TS
23.501 [6].
The proposed configuration and procedure handles cases of UE, gNB and UPF
malfunction for device-to-DN connections by the establishment of Reliability
Groups of corresponding UEs and gNBs and by disjoint path configuration
between the device and the DN.
Figure 6.17.1.1-1: Used architecture for E2E redundant transmission path
establishment with dual UE -- dual UP paths, from "Figure F-2: Reliability
group-based redundancy concept in RAN", Annex F of 3GPP TS 23.501 [6]
In the proposed configuration multiple UEs belong to the same device. From the
UEs in the same device, multiple PDU Sessions are set up to ensure redundancy,
which use independent RAN and CN UP entities, i.e. disjoint UP paths. Each UE
sets up a PDU session to S-NSSAI/DNN.
The core network UP deployment is aligned with RAN deployment and supports
redundant user plane paths. The redundant RAN coverage is achieved by
overlapping cells, supported by multiple gNBs.
The disjoint UP path establishment including UEs, gNBs and UPFs is realized by
defining Reliability Groups (RGs) identified by S-NSSAI and RAT Frequency
Selection Priority index.
Using RGs, selection of different gNBs and different cells for each UE in the
device is realized. Once the RGs of the RAN are set up, UE selects cells from
the same RG to ensure that different UEs in the same device are assigned to
different gNBs. UE is handed over only to cells within the same RG. In case
the UE connects to a cell in the wrong RG, gNB initiates HO to a cell in the
appropriate RG whenever a suitable cell is available.
Beyond UEs and gNBs, the disjoint UP path establishment includes separate
UPFs. To achieve this, the separate RGs are identified with the requested
S-NSSAI. S-NSSAI might be received from 5GC (i.e. AMF) during the UE
registration procedure, as noted also in step 2 of the procedure in Figure
6.X.3-1. S-NSSAI is used for AMF and SMF selection. UPF is selected with
S-NSSAI/DNN.
#### 6.17.1.2 Functional architecture description
Figure 6.17.1.2-1: Functional model for E2E redundant transmission path
establishment with dual UE -- dual UP
Figure 6.17.1.2-1 indicates the application layer architecture variant for E2E
redundant transmission path establishment with dual UE -- dual UP. Differences
compared to the Data delivery enabler service architecture shown in figure
6.1.1.1-4 are the following:
\- the presence of the network resource control server and the network
resource control client for network resource management during disjoint path
establishment,
\- the presence of dual SEALDD-UU over the disjoint paths,
\- two UEs are indicated within the same device, according to Figure F-1 in
3GPP TS 23.501 [6].
SEAL NRM Server and SEAL NRM Client as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5] are
best suited for the functionality of the network resource control server and
network resource control client respectively, on adding the required
enhancements.
Following the configuration of SEALDD Server and SEALDD Client through the
network resource control server and network resource control client as shown
in figure 6.17.1.3-1, SEALDD Server and SEALDD Client are responsible for
dual-UP uplink and downlink traffic on SEALDD-UUs, shown in figure 6.17.1.2-1.
For uplink data delivery, VAL client sends application traffic to SEALDD
Client on SEAL-C, the SEALDD Client assigns a sequence number and application
flow ID to the application data packet and replicates the SEALDD packet for
transport with UDP on the redundant SEALDD-UU. Sequence number and application
flow ID are part of the SEALDD packet header. The SEALDD server eliminates the
replication to recover the application data packet; remove the SEALDD header
and sends the application data packet to VAL server on SEAL-S.
For downlink data delivery, VAL server sends application data packets to
SEALDD server that assigns a sequence number and application flow ID to each
application data packet and replicates the SEALDD packet for transport with
UDP on the redundant IP flows to the SEALDD Client. Each IP flow is identified
with UE IP address (one per UE) , SEALDD Server IP address (one per server
port), transport.
#### 6.17.1.3 Procedure
Figure 6.17.1.3-1 indicates the procedure of E2E redundant transmission path
establishment with dual UE -- dual UP.
Figure 6.17.1.3-1: Procedure of E2E redundant transmission path establishment
with dual UE -- dual UP
1.a. VAL server sends VAL connection with high availability request to the
network resource control server together with the VAL UE ID. In line with the
planned application requirements, VAL Server sends QoS and communication
service availability requirements to the network resource control server. VAL
Server also requests a list of high availability connections according to the
QoS and availability requirements.
1.b. Optionally, VAL server sends connection with high availability request to
the SEALDD server which in turn sends the request to the network resource
control server. In line with the planned application requirements, SEALDD
Server sends QoS and communication service availability requirements to the
network resource control server. SEALDD Server also requests a list of high
availability connections according to the QoS and availability requirements.
2\. Reliability Group (RG) configuration: The network resource control server
and the 5GS interact to configure RGs for Disjoint Path Redundant
Connectivity. A RG is defined based on the requested S-NSSAI by the UE. The
S-NSSAI can be received from the AMF in the 5GC in URSP during UE registration
procedure.
The UE RG parameter is encoded into RAT/Frequency Selection Priority (RFSP)
Index. PCF is configured to authorize the RFSP for each requested S-NSSAI.
Network resource control server derives the GPSIs of the UEs in the VAL client
device from the requested VAL UE ID.
3\. Network resource control server requests the establishment of PDU sessions
by UE1/GPSI1 to S-NSSAI1/DNN and by UE2/GPSI2 to S-NSSA2/DNN. Different DNNs
might be used.
4\. Network resource control server requests the SEALDD server to prepare dual
UP paths for application data from VAL server.
5 and 6. Network resource control client requests UE1 and UE2 to set up the
PDU sessions.
7 and 8. UE1 and UE2 response with UE-IP1 and UE-IP2 IP addresses of the
established PDU sessions.
9\. Network resource control client responds in the Dual PDU session response
with UE-IP1 and UE-IP2.
10\. SEALDD server responds in the Redundant UP response with IP address of
the server ports (PortIP1 and PortIP2).
11 and 12. Network resource control server configures the dual paths based on
IPflow1 (UEIP1 and PortP1) and IPflow2 (UEIP2 and PortIP2) as well as the
appflowID used by SEALDD to distinguish between the different application
flows.
13\. Network resource control client configures the SEALDD client with the
dual paths IPflow1 and IPflow2 as well as with the appflowID.
14\. SEALDD client responses with the SEALDD CL port to be used by VAL client
for sending the application data
15\. Network resource control client acknowledges in Configure dual UP
response the configuration of the dual UP path by the SEALLDD client.
16\. SEALDD server acknowledges in Configure dual UP response the
configuration of the dual UP path and the SEALDD server port to be used by VAL
server for sending application data.
17\. Network resource control client notifies VAL client with VAL connection
with high availability and the SEALDD client port to use for sending
application data.
18\. a. Network resource control server acknowledges the establishment of the
high availability VAL connection and provides the SEALDD Server Port to be
used by VAL Server for sending application data.
18.b. Optionally, network resource control server acknowledges the
establishment of the high availability SEALDD connection and provides the
SEALDD Server Port to SEALDD Server which in turn sends it to VAL Server, to
be used by VAL Server for sending application data.
### 6.17.2 Solution evaluation
Editor\'s Note: This subclause will evaluate the solution.
## 6.18 Solution #18: SEALDD enabled rate control for different VAL users
### 6.18.1 Architecture enhancements
None.
### 6.18.2 Solution description
#### 6.18.2.1 General
As described in KI #8, in some scenarios, VAL servers need to restrict the
rate of users accessing it for rate control.
The following solution corresponds to KI #8 to support SEALDD enabled rate
control for VAL applications.
#### 6.18.2.2 Procedure
SEALDD can offer rate control service for VAL applications as available API.
In this solution, when VAL server subscribes to SEALDD server for data
delivery services, it will also provide rate limit (i.e. minimum rate
requirement and maximum rate limit) for VAL users. The SEALDD layer may
provide the differentiated data delivery service with different rate
experience for VAL users.
Figure 6.18.2.2-1 SEALDD enabled rate control for different VAL users
0\. The VAL server discovers and selects the SEALDD server by CAPIF functions.
1\. The VAL server sends a SEALDD service subscription request to the SEALDD
server. The service request includes the identifiers of the application
traffic (e.g. VAL service ID, VAL server ID), the VAL server's total rate
limit and rate limits (i.e. minimum rate requirement and maximum rate limit)
for VAL users. The subscription request may also contain the rate control
policy (e.g. re-allocating the rate limit between different VAL users).
2\. Upon receiving the request, the SEALDD server performs an authorization
check. If authorization is successful, the SEALDD server responds with a
SEALDD service subscription response.
3\. The VAL/SEALDD client discovers and selects the proper SEALDD server for
the VAL application as described for scenario (a) in sol #7 and sol #8. After
this step, the VAL server is discovered and selected along with the associated
SEALDD server, the SEALDD client can get the SEALDD server\'s address.
4\. The SEALDD client sends SEALDD connection establishment request to SEALDD
server with the SEALDD client ID, the VAL user's information.
5\. The SEALDD server can subscribe to 5GC for QoS monitoring of the specific
UE related to the VAL user.
6\. The SEALDD server performs rate limit check according to the VAL user's
rate limit, the current SEALDD traffic delivery status and the VAL server's
total rate limit.
7a. If the available rate (i.e. the remaining rate that can be used for the
VAL user without exceeding the VAL server's total rate limit) cannot meet the
VAL user's minimum rate requirement, the SEALDD server will reject the SEALDD
client's connection establishment request.
7b. When the available rate can meet the VAL user's requirement, the SEALDD
client can establish the SEALDD connection with the SEALDD server.
NOTE 1: The SEALDD server can re-allocate the available rate resource to
different VAL users according to the rate control policy received in step 1.
NOTE 2: The mechanism for step 7b can be specified in normative work.
8\. The SEALDD server can provide the suggested traffic transmission rate to
the SEALDD client according to the VAL user's rate limit and the related UE's
current network status (i.e. via QoS monitoring report from the 5GC).
> 9\. The SEALDD server notify the SEALDD client about the rate control
> configuration of rate resource.
>
> 10\. The SEALDD server and SEALDD client execute the new rate control
> configuration via application layer rate control.
### 6.18.3 Solution evaluation
This solution address the KI#8 to support SEALDD enabled rate control for
different VAL users. The SEALDD server may perform the rate control actions
according to the VAL server's rate limit, traffic delivery status for
different VAL users.
# 7 Overall evaluation
## 7.1 General
The following clauses contain an overall evaluation of the solutions presented
in this technical report, their applicability to the identified key issues and
possible dependencies to other groups. This clause also includes a summary of
the SEALDD services to be considered for the normative phase.
## 7.2 Architecture enhancements
The solution #1 proposes general architecture enhancements for SEALDD enabler
layer including functional architecture, reference points and traffic flow
architecture.
Solution #2 proposes the enhanced architecture for E2E redundant transmission
including the traffic flow and traffic transition model.
## 7.3 Solution evaluations
### 7.3.1 General
All the key issues and solutions specified in this technical report are listed
in Table 7.2.1-1. This table includes the mapping of the key issues to the
solutions and corresponding solution evaluations.
Table 7.3.1-1 Key issue and solutions
* * *
Key issues Solution Dependency on other working groups SEALDD architecture
Solution #1: Data delivery enabler service architecture - Key issue #1:
Support for E2E redundant transport Solution #2: E2E redundant transmission
path establishment - Solution #3: Client initiated request for redundant
transport - Key issue #2: Support for Transport layer enhancement for UE\'s
service continuity Solution #11: SEALDD support of UE\'s service continuity -
Solution #10: SEALDD server relocation - Key issue #3: Support for data
transmission quality measurement and guarantee Solution #9: SEALDD interaction
for regular application traffic transfer SA2 (NOTE) Solution #12: SEALDD
enabled data transmission quality measurement  
Solution #13: SEALDD support for data transmission quality guarantee with
redundant transport  
Solution #14: Data distribution management in SEALDD  
Solution #15: SEALDD enabled data transmission via N6 Tunnel  
Key issue #4: SEALDD and MSGin5G Solution #6: SEALDD integrating MSGin5G for
message transfer - Key issue #5: SEALDD enabled Data Storage Solution #4: Data
storage creation - Solution #16: SEALDD enabled application context transfer -
Key issue #6: SEALDD coordination with EEL Solution #5: SEALDD adaptation in
CAPIF - Solution #8: SEALDD server discovery and selection in EDN - Key issue
#7: SEALDD server discovery and selection Solution #5: SEALDD adaptation in
CAPIF - Solution #7: SEALDD server discovery and selection for specific VAL
server - Solution #10: SEALDD server relocation - Key issue #8: SEALDD data
distribution Solution #2: E2E redundant transmission path establishment -
Solution #9: SEALDD interaction for regular application traffic transfer -
Solution #14: Data distribution management in SEALDD - Solution #18: SEALDD
enabled rate control for different VAL users - NOTE: Solution #15 will be
further aligned with the corresponding conclusion of SA2's 3GPP TR 23.700‑60
[11].
* * *
7.3.2 SEALDD services
Table 7.3.2-1 provides an overview of the SEALDD services which are provided
by SEALDD layer, based on the individual solutions.
Table 7.3.2-1 SEALDD services
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **SEALDD |** Solution**|** Impacted | **Usage** | | service**| | F | | | | | unctionality** | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | E2E redundant | Sol #2, Sol | SEALDD server, | Establishment | | transmission | #3 | | of redundant | | | | SEALDD client | E2E redundant | | | | | SEALDD | | | | | transmission | | | | | path | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | SEALDD server | Sol #5, | CAPIF | SEALDD server | | discovery | | function, | discovery for | | | Sol #8 | | proper VAL | | | | EES, EEC | server and VAL | | | | | client | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | MSGin5G | Sol #6 | SEALDD server, | Integrating | | transfer | | | MSGin5G | | | | SEALDD client | f | | | | | unctionalities | | | | | to send | | | | | MSGin5G format | | | | | data | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Data storage | Sol #4 | SEALDD server | Creation and | | | | | access to | | | | | stored data | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Connection | Sol #9 | SEALDD client, | Establishment | | establishment | | | of regular | | with SEALDD | Sol #10 | SEALDD server | SEALDD | | context | | | connection for | | management | Sol #11 | | application | | | | | traffic | | | | | transfer. | | | | | | | | | | Management of | | | | | SEALDD | | | | | connection and | | | | | SEALDD context | | | | | for service | | | | | continuity. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 7.3.3 Overall evaluation of key issue#1
The open issues of KI #1 include:
1\. Whether and how to support the packet/data duplication and elimination
between client (UE) and server (Network) at enabler layer for E2E redundant
transport?
2\. Whether and how to support the interaction between the enabler service and
5GC to establish the E2E redundant transmission path?
There are two solutions in the TR, VAL server triggered solution is described
in solution#2, and VAL client triggered solution is described in solution#3.
Both of them address the two open issues of this KI.
Solution #2 provides the enhanced E2E redundant transmission architecture to
support SEALDD enabled E2E redundant transmission. The format of the SEALDD
traffic flow and the data traffic transition are also introduced to clearly
define the SEALDD enabler layer\'s functionality. The procedure shows the
detailed SEALDD connection establishment steps.
Solution #3 complements solution #2 with VAL client triggered E2E redundant
transmission.
Both solutions reuse the current AF influence URSP mechanism to establish
redundant PDU Sessions for redundant SEALDD traffic transmission.
Solution #17 cover the case of a redundant path configuration, which uses dual
UEs and dual - separated in both at the radio interface, RAN and core network
- UP paths, which could significantly improve the service availability of a
connection between a device and a DN in case of failure due to UE or gNB
malfunction (e.g. failure of RAN CP to master gNB). This solution, however, is
for consideration in a future release.
### 7.3.4 Overall evaluation of key issue#2
The open issues of KI#2 include:
\- How to support EAS relocation scenarios involving SEALDD server (e.g. EAS
relocation initiated by the AF/AS for load balancing or EAS relocation
initiated by the 5GC because of UE location change).
\- How SEALDD enabler provides support for seamless relocation and lossless
data delivery?
There are two solutions related to this KI in the TR, the SEALDD server
relocation is proposed in solution #10 for EDN scenario and non-EDN scenario,
and in solution #11, the EDGEAPP ACR procedure is enhanced to introduce the
SEALDD context management in EDN scenario.
Solution #10 proposes that the current EDGEAPP and DNS mechnism can be used to
discover the new SEALDD server due to UE mobility and for load-balancing, and
further introduces the SEALDD context transfer procedure for the cases of non-
IP replacement and IP replacement.
Solution #11 integrates the SEALDD server discovery and the SEALDD context
transfer into the current EDGEAPP ACR procedure.
For the normative work, the following aspects need to be resolved:
\- The detailed information in SEALDD context transfer procedure.
\- Additional details about how to manage SEALDD connections and traffic flows
during/after context transfer to ensure lossless data delivery.
### 7.3.5 Overall evaluation of key issue#3
The open issues of KI #3 include:
\- How to support the data transmission quality measurements in SEALDD
server/client?
\- What APIs should SEALDD enabler provide to application clients/servers to
support receiving transmission quality measurements?
\- What APIs should SEALDD enabler provide to application clients/servers to
support configuration of transmission quality measurements?
\- How to support data transmission in SEALDD enabler layer with guaranteed
quality?
In current TR, there are five solutions (i.e., solution #9, solution #12,
solution#13, solution #14, solution #15) to address this KI.
The first three open issues are about the data transmission quality
measurement, solution #12 provides the corresponding method of transmission
quality measurement. The transmission quality measurement (e.g. latency,
bitrate, etc) can be calculated by the SEALDD server, based on the
encapsulated UL/DL monitoring packet in SEALDD client and SEALDD server. The
detailed API definition of transmission quality report will be determined in
the normative phase.
For the last open issue about transmission quality guarantee, there are four
solutions (i.e., solution #9, solution #13, solution #14 and solution #15) in
the TR.
In solution #9 and solution #14, the SEALDD server provides the required QoS
information for specific VAL server to 5GC via N33/N5. With the interaction
between SEALDD server and 5GC, the QoS request and QoS authorization can be
performed to guarantee QoS quality.
Solution #13 uses the transmission quality measurement result (i.e., as
provided in solution #12) to perform the specific actions based on the SEALDD
service policies, such as adjusting the regular transmission to redundant
transmission to maintain the guaranteed data transmission.
Solution #15 proposes that the SEALDD server can encapsulate the traffic
specific information (e.g. packet priority, packet type) in the N6 tunnel
header, and transmit the SEALDD traffic towards the UPF via the selected N6
tunnel. The information included in N6 packet header can be used by 5GS to
have better resource schedule and provide the guaranteed data transmission
quality.
### 7.3.6 Overall evaluation of key issue#4
The open issue of KI #4 is that how to leverage MSGin5G service in SEALDD and
integration possibility.
There is one solution in the TR, SEALDD integrating MSGin5G for message
transfer is proposed in solution #6 to address the open issue of KI #4.
Solution #6 provides a deployment choice for SEALDD layer to integrate MSGin5G
functionality to support SEALDD enabled MSGin5G message transfer. The solution
proposes that SEALDD integrates MSGin5G functions in SEALDD layer and utilize
MSGin5G service in SEALDD layer. SEALDD traffic can be encapsulated and
transmitted in the format of MSGin5G messages. SEALDD layer reuses the
functionality defined in 3GPP TS 23.554 [9] and no enhancement to MSGin5G
functionality is introduced in SEALDD.
### 7.3.7 Overall evaluation of key issue#5
The open issues of KI #5 include:
\- What capability should the SEALDD server provide to support the data
storage service?
\- What APIs should SEALDD enabler provide to enable the VAL server and VAL
client to use the data storage service provided by SEALDD, such as the
creation, refreshing, update, and deletion of the stored data?
\- What APIs should SEALDD enabler provide to VAL clients/servers to monitor
the status of the stored data?
\- What management information or analytics should be provided to configure
the storage service?
\- Whether and how to provide data storage service to support application data
(e.g. application context) storage for VAL servers?
There are two solutions in the TR, Data storage management is described in
solution#4and Application context transfer via data storage service is
described in solution #16.
Solution #4 defined a data storage service where the stored data can be
queried by the creator or the other network functions for context or content
transfer. The solution includes the data storage creation, data storage query
and data storage management (including status notification, storage update,
storage refresh, storage delete) procedures and functionalities.
Solution #16 defined an application context transfer service between the VAL
servers via invoking the data storage service defined in solution #4. This
solution addresses the open issue "Whether and how to provide data storage
service to support application data (e.g. application context) storage for VAL
servers?" of KI #5.
### 7.3.8 Overall evaluation of key issue#6
The open issues of KI #6 include:
\- Whether and how to enable the selection of a proper SEALDD server for an
EAS (VAL server).
\- Whether and how to enable the discovery and selection of a proper SEALDD
server related to a specific VAL server for a SEALDD client when both SEALDD
server and VAL server are deployed in EDN.
There are two solutions in the TR, Solution #5 proposes to reuse CAPIF
architecture and functionalities to enable VAL server to discover and select
SEALDD server in EDN scenario. Solution #8 proposes to enhance EAS
registration procedure to enable VAL/SEALDD client discover and select proper
SEALDD server. Solution #5 addresses the first open issue of KI #6 and
solution #8 addresses the second open issue of KI #6.
The two solutions form a complete process of SEALDD server discovery: VAL
server discovers and selects the SEALDD server. VAL server subscribes to the
SEALDD server for SEALDD service and registers to EES about the association
information with the SEALDD server. Then EEC can use current EAS discovery
procedure to find the proper SEALDD server for VAL/SEALDD client.
Solution #8 provides two alternative ways of enhancement for different SEALDD
transmission scenarios:
1\. VAL server (as an EAS) registered to EES with associated SEALDD server
address as VAL server endpoint in EAS profile.
2\. VAL server (as an EAS) registered to EES with associated SEALDD server
information;
### 7.3.9 Overall evaluation of key issue#7
The open issues of KI #7 include:
\- How to discover and select the proper SEALDD server for a specific VAL
server.
\- How to discover and select the proper SEALDD server related to a specific
VAL server for a SEALDD client.
\- How to discover and select a new SEALDD server due to the change in VAL
server.
There are two solutions in the TR, Solution #5 proposes to reuse CAPIF
architecture and functionalities to enable VAL server discover and select
SEALDD server in general scenario (non-EDN scenario). And Solution #5
addresses the first open issue of KI #7. Solution #7 proposes two alternative
ways to find SEALDD server for VAL/SEALDD client in general scenario (none-EDN
scenario). And Solution #7 addresses the second and third open issues of KI
#7.
Solution #7 proposes two scenarios about how SEALDD service is used:
\- Scenario (a): SEALDD service is used for both signalling and data traffic
transfer.
\- Scenario (b): SEALDD service is used only for data traffic transfer.
For scenario (a) solution #7 leaves it to VAL\'s implementation on enhancement
of DNS query mechanism.
For scenario (b) solution #7 proposes to let VAL server notify the VAL client
about the associated SEALDD server via application layer signalling.
In addition, solution #10 offers possibility to use EDGEAPP for target SEALDD
server discovery and selection during service continuity.
### 7.3.10 Overall evaluation of key issue#8
The open issue of KI #8 is that:
\- What are the interactions between the SEALDD client and SEALDD server to
enable the data transmission for different purposes? (e.g. redundancy, regular
transmission etc.).
There are 3 solutions related to this KI in the TR, interactions between
SEALDD client and SEALDD server to enable E2E redundant transmission is
described in solution#2, interactions between SEALDD client and SEALDD server
to enable regualr application traffic transfer is described in solution#9. And
solution #14 describes the SEALDD server triggered application traffic
transfer.
Interactions between SEALDD client and SEALDD server are defined in the two
solutions for different SEALDD services to configure the SEALDD connection
establishment parameters for application traffic transfer. Application traffic
descriptor, SEALDD traffic descriptor and the mapping relationship are
described in the solutions. The difference is that for E2E redundant
transmission service, two SEALDD traffic descriptors are needed and extra
interactions may be needed since the SEALDD traffic is transmitted in two
newly established redundant PDU Sessions.
Another open issue of KI #8 mentions:
\- How to control the SEALDD data distribution between the VAL client and VAL
server.
Solution #14 offers the possibility to control application data distribution
(via SEALDD) based on policy in SEALDD server. The policy includes temporal
and spatial conditions for data distribution to control SEALDD connection
establishment and deletion.
There is another open issue of KI#8:
\- How to manage the bitrate of different users dynamically to better serve
the users as per the servers' resource limitations?
For the above open issue, solution #18 proposes that the SEALDD layer can
perform the rate control actions for different VAL users. These rate control
actions are determined according to the VAL server\'s rate limit policy and
the network status.
# 8 Conclusions
## 8.1 General
This technical report fulfils the objectives of the study on SEAL Data
Delivery. The report includes the following:
1\. Definition of terms and abbreviations used in the study (clause 3);
2\. Key issues identified by the study (clause 4) and corresponding
architectural requirements (clause 5);
3\. Individual solutions addressing the key issues (clause 6);
4\. Overall evaluations of all the key issues and solutions (clause 7).
The study concludes with following general considerations for the normative
work:
1\. Definition of terms and abbreviations captured in clause 3 will be reused;
and
2\. Architectural requirements identified in clause 5 will be used as baseline
architectural requirements.
## 8.2 Architecture enhancement conclusions
The study concludes with following architectural enhancements considerations
for the normative work:
1\. Architecture enhancements from solution #1 will be used for the baseline
architecture.
## 8.3 Key Issue conclusions
### 8.3.1 Conclusion of key issue#1
Solution #2 and solution #3 can be considered in the normative work. Solution
#2 will be the baseline solution in normative work, and solution #3 can be
merged into solution #2 to form a general E2E redundant transmission solution.
### 8.3.2 Conclusion of key issue#2
Solution #10 and solution #11 can be considered in the normative work. The
detailed information in SEALDD context tranfer procedure and how to manage
SEALDD connections and traffic flows will be further discussed in the
normative phase.
### 8.3.3 Conclusion of key issue#3
Solution # 12 can be considered in the normative work to provide the SEALDD
enabled tranmission quality measurement. Solution #9, solution #13 and
solution #14 can be considered in the normative work to provide the
transmission quality guarantee. Solution #15 will be specified in the future
release, if using N6 tunneling header to provide traffic information is
supported by SA2. The detailed API and information flows will be determined in
the normative work.
### 8.3.4 Conclusion of key issue#4
Solution #6 can be considered as the baseline solution of KI #4 in the
normative work.
### 8.3.5 Conclusion of key issue#5
Solution #4 and solution #16 can be considered in the normative work, detailed
APIs and information flows can be discussed in normative phase.
### 8.3.6 Conclusion of key issue#6
Solution #5 and both alternative ways of solution #8 can be considered in the
normative work.
### 8.3.7 Conclusion of key issue#7
Solution #5 can be considered in the normative work. Most parts of solution #7
are up to the VAL\'s implementation and out of SA6\'s scope, the main point is
that the SEALDD client can get the SEALDD server information from the VAL
client.
NOTE: In the normative work, about solution #7, it will only be mentioned that
the SEALDD client can get the SEALDD server information from the VAL client,
how VAL client gets the SEALDD server information is up to the VAL\'s
implementation and out of SA6 scope.
Solution #10 can also be considered in the normative work for target SEALDD
server discovery and selection.
### 8.3.8 Conclusion of key issue #8
Solution #2, solution #9, solution #14 and solution #18 can be considered in
the normative work for different SEALDD services for open issues of KI #8.
###### ### Annex A: Overall lifecycle of SEALDD service
Figure A-1: Overall lifecycle of SEALDD
As shown in Figure A-1, the whole lifecycle of SEALDD to establish the SEALDD
connection for the VAL client and VAL server includes 2 phases:
1\. SEALDD server Service Preparation Phase (This Phase is used by the VAL
server to get SEALDD server prepared for SEALDD client access):
(1) When the VAL server decides to use the SEALDD service for data
transmission enhancement, it discovers the SEALDD server (e.g. by CAPIF).
(2) Then the VAL server triggers SEALDD service subscription procedure to the
discovered SEALDD server, in that procedure, SEALDD server is associated with
the VAL server, and specific SEALDD server resource (e.g. address/port of the
SEALDD server for redundant transmission) is allocated for the VAL server\'s
service to transfer SEALDD traffic.
(3) For EDN scenario, the SEALDD server or VAL server will register the
association information to the EES.
2\. SEALDD client Service Consuming Phase (When SEALDD server is prepared in
SEALDD server Service Preparation Phase, the VAL client(s) can trigger SEALDD
client to connect to specific prepared SEALDD server for SEALDD service):
(1) When VAL client request to use SEALDD service to transmit the VAL traffic
to VAL server, the VAL client or SEALDD client can discover the proper SEALDD
server associated with the VAL server (e.g. via EAS discovery, DNS query, pre-
configuration or Application layer signalling).
(2) Then SEALDD client can interact with SEALDD server to negotiate for SEALDD
data transfer. If Address/Port is allocated in SEALDD service subscription
phase, it will be notified to SEALDD client in this step.
(3) Data transmission connection is established between the SEALDD client and
SEALDD server for SEALDD traffic transfer.
(4) For some specific service (e.g. E2E redundant transmission), SEALDD server
may configure the data connection with VAL server for transferring the VAL
data mapping with the SEALDD client\'s SEALDD traffic.
(5) The whole configuration is accomplished and the VAL traffic is transferred
via the SEALDD connection.
###### ### Annex B (Informative): A Deployment example of SEALDD service
This clause provides a deployment example of SEALDD service based on the
deployment model of cloud platform.
Figure B-1 shows the deployment model of current cloud platform providing
services to Client based APP or Browser based APP users via 3GPP network. The
components of instances of application server can be classified into 3 parts:
service logical component capable of processing application specific logic
(including e.g. image recognition, video rendering or location function, and
the services can be deployed as micro services for remote API invocation),
storage component (including e.g. data storage accessing management function
and data storage function such as database or file storage server) and
External Communication component (including e.g. API gateway for API invoking
management, data transmission gateway for media data transfer and
communication endpoint service). Storage component and External Communication
component are generic to all type of application, and they are normally
provided as services in the cloud platform. SEALDD covers Storage component
and External Communication component in its scope and improves communication
service performance by employing 5G capability support.
{width="6.272916666666666in" height="2.53125in"}
Figure B-1: Deployment model of Cloud Platform
Figure B-2 shows a deployment example of SEALDD service based on the
deployment model of current cloud platform providing services with 3GPP
specific optimizations via 5G network.
{width="6.771527777777778in" height="1.3145833333333334in"}
Figure B-2: Deployment suggestion of SEALDD service
As shown in Figure B-2, SEALDD server provides generic services such as
storage service and external communication service for application server.
Specially, SEALDD server is deployed with 5G adaptation function to provide
3GPP specific optimization via 5G network. It includes control-plane
processing function which can communicate with the control plane of 5GC via
N33/N5 interfaces. And it includes user-plane processing function which does
the mapping between the application traffic and SEALDD traffic, the SEALDD
traffic is transferred via the N6 interface of the 5G network. In this
deployment model, the application server only keeps the application logical
components as Micro services and can invoke the SEALDD API for data storage
and external communication. The application server only read/write data or
signals from the SEALDD server.
This deployment model enables the developer to use the 5G exposed capability
for data transmission optimization and is aligned with the current cloud
platform architecture which is compatible with existing application developing
progress.
#