# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report which identifies the enhancements
to the application architecture to support V2X services specified in 3GPP TS
23.286 [6] considering advanced V2X services like V2P, ToD, etc and edge
computing deployments for V2X services.
The study takes into consideration the existing stage 1 and stage 2 work
within 3GPP related to advanced V2X services and edge computing in 3GPP TS
22.185 [2], 3GPP TS 22.186 [3], 3GPP TS 23.285 [5], 3GPP TS 23.287 [7], 3GPP
TS 23.548 [10] and 3GPP TS 23.558 [11].
The study also takes into consideration the V2X application specific services
and recommendations specified by automotive industry bodies (5GAA, ETSI ITS
and AECC) related to advanced V2X services for VRU, Haptics/ToD and edge
deployments for V2X services.
This document will provide recommendations for normative work.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.185: \"Service requirements for V2X services; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.186: \"Enhancement of 3GPP support for V2X scenarios; Stage
1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.222: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
Common API Framework for 3GPP Northbound APIs\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.285: \"Architecture enhancements for V2X services\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.286: \"Application layer support for Vehicle-to-Everything
(V2X) services; Functional architecture and information flows\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.287: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to support
Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) services\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.288: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to support
network data analytics services\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.436: \"Procedures for Application Data Analytics Enablement
Service\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.548: \"5G System Enhancements for Edge Computing; Stage 2\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.558: \"Architecture for enabling Edge Applications\".
[12] 3GPP TR 23.700-36: \"Study on Application Data Analytics Enablement
Service\".
[13] ETSI TS 103 300-2: \" Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS); Vulnerable
Road Users (VRU) awareness; Part 2: Functional Architecture and Requirements
definition; Release 2\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
The terms and definitions as specified in 3GPP TS 23.286 [6] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
BSM Basic Safety Message
CAM Cooperative Awareness Message
CPM Collective Perception Message
DENM Decentralized Environmental Notification Message
V2P Vehicle-to-Pedestrian
V2X Vehicle-to-Everything
VAE V2X Application Enabler
VAM VRU awareness message
VASS V2X Application Specific Server
VRU Vulnerable Road Users
VRUP Vulnerable Road User Protection
# 4 Key issues
## 4.1 Key issue #1 -- Support for high risk VRU zones
In VRU high risk zones, drivers (or automated vehicles) are delivered warnings
when they enter a high risk area where there is a likely presence of many
VRUs. The high-risk area can be static (e.g. a school during arrival and
leaving times), or dynamic (e.g. a school bus or mobile ice-cream vendor).
Dedicated roadside infrastructure could play a vital role in disseminating
warning messages to VRUs and vehicles as well.
One issue at the scenario of the VRU high risk zone areas is how to configure
the communication for the zones (which can include different types of
interfaces and transmission modes) and how to translate the zone
configurations (which are application driven) to network requirements and zone
specific provisioning parameters considering both static and dynamic zones.
Furthermore, another issue is how to assist the provisioning of zone specific
parameters to the devices which can be potential VRUs and V2X-UEs and are
expected to enter the zone.So, the key issue will study:
\- Whether and how to enhance VAE layer capabilities to support configuring
the communication parameters for the zones.
\- Whether and how to enhance VAE layer capabilities to translate the zone
configurations to network requirements and zone specific provisioning
parameters.
\- Whether and how to assist the provisioning of zone specific parameters to
the devices which can be potential VRUs and V2X-UEs.
## 4.2 Key issue #2 -- Support for V2P communications
Vehicle to Pedestrian (V2P) is one of the V2X scenarios, which enables
communication between vehicles and pedestrians for both safety and traffic
efficiency related applications. One of the key V2P applications is the
Vulnerable Road User Protection (VRUP) as specified in ETSI TS 103 300-2 [13].
VRUP provides warning to vehicles of the presence of vulnerable road users,
e.g. pedestrian or cyclist, in case of dangerous situation. In VRUP, multiple
V2X messages need to be exchanged between the pedestrian and the vehicular
UEs, originating by one or more applications. Such messages can be standard
VRU messages (e.g. VAM) and other V2X messages (CAM, DENM, BSM, CPM) and can
be exchanged via different transmission modes (unicast, groupcast, broadcast).
In such scenario, one challenge is that a pedestrian UE might have a lower
battery capacity and limited radio capability, and therefore may have to work
in a low power consumption mode, e.g. not being able to send/receive V2X
messages with the same periodicity as a Vehicular UE. Continuous
sending/receiving V2X messages by the pedestrian UE would affect UE power
efficiency. A further challenge is that multiple applications related to VRU
may be deployed, which may have differentiated traffic/QoS requirements as
well as transmission/reception schedules.
The VAE layer may provide support functionality for enabling V2P applications,
by consolidating the V2P application requirements and aligning the
communication traffic pattern with the PC5 QoS setting and the AS layer
configurations (e.g. DRX cycles).
So, the key issue will study:
\- Whether and how the VAE layer can support the V2P communications
considering the UE situation (e.g. low battery power, weak radio signals)?
\- Whether and how the VAE layer can coordinate the alignment of the
communication traffic patterns with the PC5 QoS setting and the AS layer
configurations (e.g. DRX cycles)?
## 4.3 Key issue #3 -- V2X service deployment in edge data network
The distributed deployment models for VAE layer are specified in clause 7.2.2
of 3GPP TS 23.286 [6]. It is possible that both VAE server and V2X application
specific servers are deployed in the edge data network. Several industry
bodies like 5GAA and AECC have studied the deployments of V2X services in edge
computing domain.
The edge enabler architecture is specified in 3GPP TS 23.558 [11] which
supports Edge Application Servers (EAS) deployed at EDN with enabler
capabilities like Application Context Relocation.
It is required to investigate the impact of edge deployments of V2X
application architecture considering the Edge enabler architecture. The
following open issues can be studied:
a. Whether and how V2X application architecture supports the edge enabler
architecture specified in 3GPP TS 23.558 [11].
b. Investigate the the impact on V2X enabler services for edge deployments.
## 4.4 Key issue #4 -- Enhancement to support non-simultaneous multiple
service providers control for advanced V2X services
Some capabilities (e.g. session oriented services) are specified in 3GPP TS
23.286 [6] which supports advanced V2X services (e.g. ToD service) controlled
by a V2X application specific server operated by a V2X service provider. It is
possible that a host vehicle can be controlled by multiple V2X service
providers in different regions. Example: A host vehicle may be controlled by
V2X service provider X in normal driving zone region and by V2X service
provider Y in remote parking zone region. The multiple service providers may
be utilizing the VAE services to support their ToD services. It can be
investigated whether and how VAE services (e.g. Session oriented services) can
support non-simultaneous multiple V2X service provider control for advanced
V2X services (e.g. ToD).
The following open issues can be studied:
a. Whether and how V2X enabler services (e.g. session oriented services) can
support non-simultaneous multiple V2X service provider control for advanced
V2X services.
## 4.5 Key issue #5 -- Usage of network analytics
Exposure capabilities for various network analytics information (e.g. DN
performance analytics) is specified in 3GPP TS 23.288 [8] via NWDAF (at
network layer) and 3GPP TR 23.700-36 [12] via SEAL ADAE service (at
application layer).
Some capabilities (e.g. session oriented services) are specified in 3GPP TS
23.286 [5] which supports ToD service controlled by a V2X application specific
server operated by a V2X service provider. These services require very good
and stable network performance for successful service operation. It is hence
required to study how network analytics (e.g. performance information or
performance predictions) can be used to enhance the VAE capabilities which
support advanced V2X services.
The following open issue can be studied:
a. Whether and how V2X enabler services (e.g. session oriented services, V2X
message delivery) can be enhanced to utilize the network analytics services
specified in 3GPP TS 23.288 [8] and 3GPP TS 23.436 [9].
## 4.6 Key issue #6 -- Enhanced network monitoring to support advanced V2X
services
For advanced V2X scenarios the communication service situation is very
important. The V2X UE should be able to choose the communication services
(e.g. Uu or PC5) with another V2X UE or a group of V2X UEs considering the
network situation towards the V2X UE(s) and/or the proximity of the V2X UEs
within which the V2X UEs can communicate.
In 3GPP TS 23.286 [6] clause 9.7, a V2X UE can subscribe for the network
situation monitoring events in an area of interest. Once the V2X UE receives
notification, it can further decide to switch between different modes of
operations for V2X communications. However, it does not support network
situation monitoring events for a specific V2X UE or a group of V2X UEs as
required for advanced V2X applications (e.g. ToD, platooning).
The open issue for the study is:
a. How to enhance the network monitoring procedures considering specific V2X
UE information or group of V2X UE(s) information?
# 5 Architectural requirements
## 5.1 General requirements
[AR-5.1-a] The V2X application architecture shall be able to support the V2X
applications and V2X enabler services deployments in edge data network.
## 5.2 VRU zone configuration requirements
### 5.2.1 Description
This subclause specifies the VRU zone configuration related requirements.
### 5.2.2 Requirements
[AR-5.2.2-a] The VAE capabilities shall support VRU zone configurations (e.g.
distribution of VRU zone related configuration information) to the relevant
V2X UEs.
## 5.3 V2P communications requirements
### 5.3.1 Description
This subclause specifies the V2P communications related requirements.
### 5.3.2 Requirements
[AR-5.3.2-a] The VAE capabilities shall provide mechanisms (e.g.
configurations) to support V2P communications.
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Solution #1 - VAE support for Energy Efficient V2P communications
### 6.1.1 Solution description
#### 6.1.1.1 General
Vehicle to Pedestrian (V2P) is one of the V2X scenarios, which enables
communication between vehicles and pedestrians for both safety and traffic
efficiency related applications. One of the key V2P applications is the
Vulnerable Road User Protection (VRUP) as specified in ETSI TS 103 300-2 [13].
VRUP provides warning to vehicles of the presence of vulnerable road users,
e.g. pedestrian or cyclist, in case of dangerous situation. In VRUP, multiple
V2X messages need to be exchanged between the pedestrian and the vehicular
UEs, originating by one or more applications. Such messages can be standard
VRU messages (e.g. VAM) and other V2X messages (CAM, DENM, BSM, CPM) and can
be exchanged via different transmission modes (unicast, groupcast, broadcast).
In such scenario, one challenge is that a pedestrian UE might have a lower
battery capacity and limited radio capability, and therefore may have to work
in a low power consumption mode, e.g. not being able to send/receive V2X
messages with the same periodicity as a Vehicular UE. Continuous
sending/receiving V2X messages by the pedestrian UE would affect UE power
efficiency. A further challenge is that multiple applications related to VRU
may be deployed, which may have differentiated traffic/QoS requirements as
well as transmission/reception schedules.
The VAE layer may provide support functionality for enabling V2P applications,
by consolidating the V2P application requirements and aligning the
communication traffic pattern with the PC5 QoS setting and the AS layer
configurations (e.g. DRX cycles). Such alignment may be in the form of
triggering the update of QoS / AS layer configuration based on application
requirement (procedure is shown in clause 6.1.1.2.1 for client-triggered
alignment and in clause 6.1.1.2.2 for VAE-server triggered alignment).
The different procedures correspond to different solution variants to address
different use cases.
Clause 6.1.1.2.1 provides a VAE-client enabled V2P communication schedule
configuration which could be applicable to off-network deployments and could
be triggered by the application of the V2X UE (e.g. if UE battery drops while
the V2P session is ongoing) based on prior configuration from the VAE server.
On the other hand, clause 6.1.1.2.2 provides a VAE server enabled V2P
communication schedule configuration, which could be applicable to use cases
where the VAE server after receiving the VASS requirement, it
configures/aligns the schedules for the V2X UEs (e.g. can be used within VRU
zones to avoid flooding/interference by continuous sending/receiving V2X
messages).
#### 6.1.1.2 Procedures
This subclause describes the procedures for V2P communication schedule
configuration and update support by the VAE layer. This includes an off-
network (VAE client enabled) and on-network (VAE server enabled) procedures
for V2P communication schedule configuration.
##### 6.1.1.2.1 Procedure for VAE client enabled V2P communication schedule
configuration
Figure 6.1.1.2.1-1 illustrates the procedure where the VAE client configures
the traffic schedule for V2P communications based on application requirement;
and triggers the translation to an AS layer/ QoS configurations update.
Pre-conditions:
1\. VASS or VASC has subscribed to VAE layer to provide support for V2P
communication.
2\. VAE client 1 has been configured by the VAE server to configure the
communication schedule for V2P communications.
3\. V2X UE #1 and V2X UE#2 have discovered each other based upon V2P service
and established a unicast connection using the V2X Service oriented Layer-2
link establishment procedure as specified in 3GPP TS 23.287 [7] clause 6.3.3.1
Figure 6.1.1.2.1-1: VAE client - enabled V2P communication schedule
configuration
1\. On V2X UE #1, the V2X application specific client 1 and 2 provide the V2X
application requirements to the VAE client, including delay requirements,
etc., for the PC5 communication. Here, this V2X Application specific client 1
may be requesting a groupcast communication and V2X Application specific
client 2 may be requesting a unicast communication.
2\. V2X UE #1\'s VAE client consolidates requirements from both applications
and generates a UE level transmission schedule, so that the off-duration is
maximized. The determination of the transmission schedule can be determined
based on the configuration on the UE (energy efficiency target) and the
service KPIs.
3\. V2X UE #1\'s VAE client sends a V2P communication schedule update message
which includes the generated UE level transmission schedule to other VAE
client 2 (in vicinity, or in service-based group), in order to negotiate the
optimal transmission pattern or inform on the expected reception pattern.
4\. V2X UE #2\'s VAE client either accepts or provides its transmission cycle
or negotiates the traffic pattern.
5\. VAE clients of V2X UE #2 may optionally send a V2P communication schedule
update message indicating the expected/generated UE #2 transmission pattern.
6\. V2X UE #1\'s and V2X UE #2\'s VAE clients (VAE clients are deployed at V2X
application layer), provide the updated traffic pattern as V2X Application
Requirements to V2X layer, also including QoS requirements such as delay
requirements, priority, etc., for the PC5 communication for both applications,
as specified in 3GPP TS 23.287 [7] clause 5.4.1.1. VAE client may also
indicate the transmission mode (unicast, groupcast) per application. The
V2X/AS layer of UE #1 and #2 applies/configures the DRX schedule for the
corresponding V2X communication, based on the updated traffic pattern per cast
type and/or destination Layer ID (as specified in 3GPP TS 23.287 [7] clause
5.9).
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS to identify possible dependencies to RAN2/SA2 for
the consideration of the Tx Profile which may impact the details of step 6.
7\. VAE clients of V2X UEs #1 and #2 may send a notification to the V2X
application specific client(s) to inform on the communication traffic pattern.
##### 6.1.1.2.2 Procedure for VAE server enabled V2P communication schedule
configuration
Figure 6.1.1.2.2-1 illustrates the procedure where the VAE server configures
the traffic schedule for V2P communications based on application requirement;
and communicates with the VAE clients to trigger the translation to an AS
layer/ QoS configurations update.
Pre-conditions:
1\. VASS has subscribed to VAE server to provide support for V2P
communication.
2\. VAE client of V2X UE #1 and V2X UE #2 are registered with VAE server.
Figure 6.1.1.2.2-1: VAE server - enabled V2P communication schedule
configuration
1\. One or more V2X application specific servers provide the V2X application
requirements to the VAE server, including application QoS requirements for the
V2P applications and provisioning policies and parameters for the PC5
communication.
2\. The VAE server generates a communication schedule for one or more involved
V2X UEs, so that the off duration is maximized. The determination of the
transmission schedule can be determined based on the V2P service KPIs. Such
communication schedule may include the transmission/reception schedule for the
application messages and may also include the DRX cycle configuration for out
of coverage and groupcast/broadcast communications.
3\. The VAE server sends a V2P communication schedule configuration message to
the involved VAE clients. This includes the generated UE level transmission
schedules and may also include the DRX cycle configuration for PC5
communication in out of coverage and groupcast/broadcast modes.
4\. V2X UE #1\'s and V2X UE #2\'s VAE clients provide the updated traffic
pattern as V2X Application Requirements to V2X layer, also including QoS
requirements such as delay requirements, priority, etc., for the PC5
communication for both applications, as specified in 3GPP TS 23.287 [7] clause
5.4.1.1. VAE client may also indicate the transmission mode (unicast,
groupcast) per application. The V2X layer of UEs #1 and #2 process the
requirements from VAE client and generates a UE level DRX schedule. The AS
layer of UE #1 and #2 applies/configures the DRX schedule for the
corresponding V2X communication.
5\. VAE clients of V2X UEs #1 and #2 may send an acknowledgement to the VAE
server.
6\. VAE clients of V2X UEs #1 and #2 may send a notification to the V2X
application specific client(s) to inform on the communication traffic pattern.
### 6.1.2 Solution evaluation
In this solution, the VAE layer provides a support functionality for enabling
V2P applications, by consolidating the V2P application requirements and
aligning the communication traffic pattern with the PC5 QoS setting and the AS
layer configurations (e.g. DRX cycles). Such alignment may be in the form of
triggering the update of QoS/AS layer configuration based on application
requirement.
There are two solution variants captured in this solution:
\- Client-triggered alignment in clause 6.1.1.2.1, has possible dependency on
the SA2 work (for the consideration of the Tx Profile which may impact the
details of step 6). Also, for this variant the relationship of service KPIs
and energy efficiency target (as discussed in step 2) requires further
consideration during the normative phase.
\- VAE-server triggered alignment in clause 6.1.1.2.2) has no dependencies to
SA2 and is a viable technical solution to address key issue#2.
## 6.2 Solution #2 - Support for VRU zone configuration and operation
### 6.2.1 Solution description
#### 6.2.1.1 Procedure on VAL server - triggered VRU zone creation
This procedure supports the configuration and provisioning of the VRU high
risk zone at the VAE layer based on a request from the VASS / VAL server.
Figure 6.2.1.1-1 illustrates the procedure where the VAE client configures the
VRU zone based on application requirement; and supports the run-time operation
based on an expected UE entrance to the zone.
Pre-conditions:
1\. VASS or VASC has subscribed to VAE layer to provide support for V2P
communication.
Figure 6.2.1.1-1: VAL server - triggered VRU zone creation
1\. The V2X application specific server sends a subscription request to manage
the creation and configuration of a new high-risk area zone, and requires the
VAE server support to translate it to a network-related zone configuration and
provisioning to the UEs within the requested area. The subscription request
consists of the Requestor ID (VASS ID or App ID), the VRU zone type (based on
the scenario, which type of UEs are to be considered), geographical area, time
validity and initiation trigger, types of supported messages and requirements
(e.g. requirements for VAM messages), application QoS requirement dedicated
for the VRU zone (e.g. URLLC like), whether it is a dynamic or static zone,
etc.
NOTE: If the zone is dynamically changing based on an event (e.g. school bus
mobility / route), such mobility/route information will be provided to the VAE
server, or the VASS needs to provide new configuration every time the
configuration changes.
2\. The VAE server processes the request and stores the subscription. The
processing includes the translation of the zone requirement of step 1 and
determines a set of network-related zone parameters which indicates the
configuration parameters for example: the topological area for the zone (cell
IDs, TAs), the QoS requirements within the zone, the exposure requirements
within the zone, the value added services required within the zone (e.g.
location tracking, V2X message bundling), the transmission modes (unicast,
groupcast, broadcast) within the applications within the zone, the interface
selection within the zone (Uu, PC5), the use of application relaying or not,
whether the zone is dynamic or not, and if it is dynamic to take into account
the configuration adaptation every time the configuration changes or to
provide the planning (e.g. based on a school bus route) to allow the network
to adapt the configuration.
3\. The VAE sever sends a VRU zone creation subscription response to VASS.
4\. The VAE server initiates the SEAL LMS service for location tracking both
for static location and dynamically changing location for all UEs within the
VRU zone area. VAE server obtains and initiates tracking the V2X UEs location
from the location management server 1 as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 (clause
9.3.12).
5\. The VAE server sends a notification message including the VRU zone
configuration parameters. Parameters can be based on the parameters provided
in step 2. This configuration will be provided to the V2X-UEs (and
pedestrians) within the area that will be covered by the VRU zone, and will
also indication when the zone will be activated, for how much time and if the
zone configuration will be dynamically changing (e.g. where a school bus
moves) and parameters related to the dynamicity (as discussed in steps 1, 2).
6\. The VAE server keeps monitoring the VRU zone area based on monitoring SEAL
LMS events. This includes events on whether a UE (e.g. UE1) is moving in or
out a target area of interest.
The VAE server translates the UE1 mobility event to an expected entrance to a
VRU high risk zone, and based on the configuration of the zone, it identifies
when an action needs to be taken and when to communicate this with the
involved application entities.
7\. The VAE server alerts the VASS that the UE1 is expected to move to the VRU
zone area in X time and provides also information on its mobility as well as
the UE1 capabilities (e.g. VRU capable). The notification / alert message may
include the UE ID (GPSI, or external ID), the group ID (if it is a group of
UEs), an expected start time of VRUP, an expected duration, expected
mobility/speed/direction, etc. Alternatively, when UE is leaving the zone, a
message can be sent to VASS to notify that the UE1 is expected to leave this
area and the VRUP is no longer needed.
8\. The VAE server may also alert the VAE client (if deployed at the UE1) that
it is expected to enter the VRU zone and requests the confirmation for
allowing the push of VRU messages within the zone. Such notification / request
will include zone area information and configuration parameters.
Alternatively, when UE is leaving the zone, a message can be sent to VAE
client to notify that the UE1 is expected to leave this area and the VRUP is
no longer needed.
### 6.2.2 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses KI #1 on zone configuration and provisioning for VRUP
applications. The solution supports the configuration and provisioning of the
VRU high risk zone at the VAE layer based on a request from the VASS / VAL
server. This solution enables distribution of zones and notifications related
to those zones, but any usage of this information is up to the application as
this information is not directly used by the VAE layer. This solution is
technically viable.
## 6.3 Solution #3 - Deployment of V2X application layer with Edge Enabler
Layer
### 6.3.1 Solution description
This solution corresponds to key issue#3. The architecture for edge enabler
layer is specified in 3GPP TS 23.558 [11]. This clause describes the
deployment of V2X application layer services at Edge Data Network by utilizing
the Edge Enabler Layer services.
Figure 6.3.1-1 illustrates the edge deployment example for the V2X application
layer. For simplicity, the reference points between enabler server and 5GS are
omitted, and the reference points for inter-enabler server communication in
the same enabler layer are also omitted. At UE side, V2X Application Specific
client(s) and VAE client interact with the Edge Enabler Client (EEC) via
EDGE-5 reference point. In an Edge Data Network (EDN), V2X Application
Specific Server and VAE server assume the role of EAS (Edge Application
Server) and interacts with the Edge Enabler Server (EES) via EDGE-3 reference
point, for instance, to register its profile into the EES. Upon service
provisioning, the EEC interacts with the EES via EDGE-1 reference point, for
instance, to discover V2X Application Specific Server(s) and VAE Server and
further the EEC provides the discovered V2X Application Specific Server(s) and
VAE server to the V2X Application Specific client and VAE client respectively.
Figure 6.3.1-1: Deployment of V2X application layer with Edge Enabler Layer
In an EDN, there could be several EES(s) provided by the same or different
ECSP. The V2X application specific server(s) and VAE server shall be able to
discover and register into an appropriate EES. If CAPIF is used, this can be
done by utilizing the AEF serving area and/or the AEF location as described in
3GPP TS 23.222 [4]; otherwise, local configuration of the EES endpoint may be
used.
Note that the services provided by EES over EDGE-3 are not re-exposed by the
VAE server or SEAL servers to the V2X application specific server but are
directly consumed by the SEAL servers, VAE server and V2X application specific
server(s).
### 6.3.2 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses key issue#3 for \"Whether and how V2X application
architecture supports the edge enabler architecture specified in 3GPP TS
23.558 [11]\" and provides a solution for the deployment of V2X application
layer with Edge Enabler Layer.
## 6.4 Solution #4 - UE initiated request for VRU zones
### 6.4.1 Solution description
#### 6.4.1.1 General
A cyclist training for long-distance competitions is vulnerable to road
collisions during the entire training route. The cyclist would like to create
a protection zone that tracks their route for use as part of the services
provided by the V2X service provider. The V2X infrastructure, including edge
enabler servers, receives a request to create a protection zone and
dynamically update the protection zone to follow the route of the cyclist.
When an incoming vehicle is detected, the infrastructure can alert the vehicle
and provision V2P communication configurations to enable the vehicle to
communicate with the cyclist.
The following solution is provided for key issues #1 and 2 and complements
solution #1. This solution also enhances solution #2 by providing an option to
employ the VAE layer to receive protection zone configuration requests from
the UE and notify VASS. The two solutions can coexist in any deployment, with
the VRU application determining whether solution#4 may be used based on a
policy specifying whether:
a. Use of VAE service for protection zone notification is allowed; and
b. Protection zone requests initiated by UEs are allowed.
#### 6.4.1.2 Procedure
Pre-conditions:
1\. VASS has subscribed to VAE server to provide support for V2P
communication.
2\. VAE clients of V2X cyclist UE and vehicular UE are registered with VAE
server.
3\. The VRU application (at VASS and Application client at the cyclist UE) are
pre-configured so that:
a. Use of VAE service for protection zone notification is allowed; and
b. Protection zone requests be initiated by UEs are allowed.
NOTE 1: Pre-condition 3 allows VAE server to determine that use of solution#4
mechanism is allowed.
{width="6.763888888888889in" height="4.061111111111111in"}
Figure 6.4.1.2-1: UE request for protection zone
1\. Optionally, an application client on a cyclist UE makes a request to the
VAE client to create a protection zone.
2\. A VAE client sends a request to a VAE server to create a protection zone.
The request may include V2X Service ID, UE ID, application ID, UE location and
location reporting configuration, destination location, request for dynamic
protection zone, V2P communication configuration, user consent for using user
application context information, user activity, active applications, etc.
3\. The VAE server sends a request to a VASS to authorize the creation of the
protection zone for the cyclist UE and includes the information provided by
the cyclist UE.
4\. The VASS authorizes the request and creates a protection zone based on
information received from the VAE server. The VASS provides the VAE server
with the protection zone and V2P communication configuration.
5\. The VASS responds with an authorization response to the VAE server. The
response includes the status of the authorization, the protection zone type,
geographical area, time validity and initiation trigger, types of supported
messages and requirements (e.g. requirements for VAM messages), application
QoS requirement dedicated for the protection zone (e.g. URLLC like), whether
it is a dynamic or static zone, an expiration for the protection zone, V2P
communication configuration information, etc.
6\. The VAE server configures subscriptions to obtain UE location from the 5G
system. Sources of UE mobility information may come from SEAL LMS servers,
EES, an analytics function (e.g. from ADAES or NWDAF), and the 5G core
network. For V2X UEs location obtained from the location management server,
the procedures specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 (clause 9.3.12) apply.
7\. The VAE server sends a response message to the cyclist UE with a status
for the request, the information of the protection zone, and updated V2P
communication configuration. The VAE server may also subscribe to receive
notifications from the VAE client about application context events such as
user activity, active applications, application notifications, navigation
information, etc.
8\. Optionally, the VAE client returns a response to the application client.
9\. The VAE server receives UE mobility information from the 5G network and/or
from the UEs. The cyclist UE and vehicular UE may also provide application
context information to the VAE server, such as battery level, user activity,
active applications, and routing information from a navigation app. The
battery level of the UE may help the VAE server determine the V2P
communication configuration to provide to UEs in the protection zone. For
example, if the battery level of a cyclist UE is low, the VAE server may
provide V2P communication configurations to vehicular UEs to align with when
the cyclist UE is able to receive V2P communication. Alternatively, the VAE
server can provide V2P communication parameters to vehicular UEs to
communicate with nearby UEs instead.
10\. The VAE server updates the protection zone based on information the VAE
server has obtained about the cyclist UE. For example, the protection zone may
be updated due to a change in UE location. In addition, the VAE server may
broadcast the new protection zone information to all the UEs in the protection
zone.
11\. The VAE server detects that a vehicular UE is now in the updated
protection zone and sends a notification alert to the vehicular UE and
includes the V2P communication configuration for use by the vehicular UE to
communicate directly with the cyclist UE.
6.4.2 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses KI #1 and aspects of KI #2 and provides a procedure
for a VAL client on a cyclist UE to request the creation of a dynamic
protection zone via the VAE client. The VAE server checks with a VASS to
authorize the request and if authorized, the VASS creates a protection zone
based on the information provided by the VAE client. After the creation of the
protection zone, the VAE server monitors the UE's mobility information and
updates the protection zone accordingly. If the VAE server detects the
presence of other vehicular UEs in the updated protection zone, the VAE server
sends a notification alert to the vehicular UE and includes V2P communication
configuration information.
Further agreement is needed for the scenario of this solution where UEs can
initiate VRU protection zone creation.
## 6.5 Solution #5 - Enhanced network monitoring
### 6.5.1 Solution description
#### 6.5.1.1 General
This solution corresponds to key issue#6. The network monitoring subscription
and notification procedures specified in clause 9.7 of 3GPP TS 23.286 [6] are
enhanced to allow a V2X UE for subscription and notification of network
situation monitoring events considering a single V2X UE or a group of V2X
UE(s) in addition to area information.
#### 6.5.1.2 Enhancements to subscription procedure in clause 9.7.3
In step 1, the network monitoring information subscription request from VAE
client to VAE server can include target V2X UE ID(s) in addition to area
information.
In step 2, the VAE server is enhanced to initiate network monitoring
considering the requested information in step 1.
#### 6.5.1.3 Enhancements to notification procedure in clause 9.7.4
In step 1, the network monitoring of VAE server with 5GC is enhanced to
include configuring and receiving network monitoring events for V2X UE ID(s)
also as per the subscription.
### 6.5.2 Solution evaluation
This is a viable technical solution to address key issue#6.
## 6.6 Solution #6 -- Network situation enhanced with analytics
### 6.6.1 Solution description
#### 6.6.1.1 General
This solution corresponds to key issue#5. The network situation monitoring
procedures specified in clause 9.7 and clause 9.20 of 3GPP TS 23.286 [6] are
enhanced to utilize the SEAL\'s ADAE services for application performance
analytics and prediction.
#### 6.6.1.2 Enhancements to network monitoring by V2X UE
In clause 9.7.3, step 2 of 3GPP TS 23.286 [6], the VAE server is enhanced to
utilize the SEAL\'s ADAE service for application performance analytics and
prediction.
In clause 9.7.4, step 1 of 3GPP TS 23.286 [6], the network monitoring also
includes the SEAL\'s ADAE service. In step 2, the VAE server processes the
information obtained from SEAL\'s ADAE service corresponding to the
application session. In step 3, the VAE server provides the notification to
the V2X UE about both network situation and the predicted network situation.
#### 6.6.1.3 Enhancements to monitoring and control of QoS for eV2X
communications
In clause 9.20.3, step 2 of 3GPP TS 23.286 [6], the VAE server is enhanced to
utilize the SEAL\'s ADAE service for application performance analytics and
prediction.
In clause 9.20.4, step 1 of 3GPP TS 23.286 [6], the monitoring reports also
includes the SEAL\'s ADAE service. In step 2, the VAE server processes the
information obtained from SEAL\'s ADAE service corresponding to the
application session. In step 3, the VAE server provides the service
requirement adaptation notification request to V2X application specific server
about both network situation and the predicted network situation to initiate
any application session adaptation (e.g. session oriented service update or
terminate).
### 6.6.2 Solution evaluation
This is a viable technical solution to address key issue#5 for supporting
utilization of improved analytics.
# 7 Overall evaluation
## 7.1 General
The following subclauses contain an overall evaluation of the solutions
presented in this technical report, and their applicability to the identified
key issues.
\- Clause 7.2 lists the solutions for the key issues including impact on other
working groups that will need consideration.
## 7.2 Key issue and solution evaluation
All the key issues and solutions specified in this technical report are listed
in table 7.2-1. It includes the mapping of the key issues (clause 4) to the
solutions and corresponding solution evaluations. Also it lists the impact on
other working groups that will need consideration during the Release 18
normative phase.
Table 7.2-1: Key issue and solution evaluation
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issues | Solution | Evaluation | Dependency on | | | | | other working | | | | (subclause | groups | | | | reference) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue #1 | Solution #2 - | Clause 6.2.2 | SA2, RAN2 | | -- Support for | Support for | | | | high risk VRU | VRU zone | | | | zones | configuration | | | | | and operation | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Solution #4 - | Clause 6.4.2 | - | | | UE initiated | | | | | request for | | | | | VRU zones | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue #2 | Solution #1 - | Clause 6.1.2 | - | | -- Support for | VAE support | | | | V2P | for Energy | | | | communications | Efficient V2P | | | | | communications | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Solution #4 - | Clause 6.4.2 | - | | | UE initiated | | | | | request for | | | | | VRU zones | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue #3 | Solution #3 - | Clause 6.3.2 | - | | -- V2X service | Deployment of | | | | deployment in | V2X | | | | edge data | application | | | | network | layer with | | | | | Edge Enabler | | | | | Layer | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue #4 | - | - | - | | -- Enhancement | | | | | to support | | | | | no | | | | | n-simultaneous | | | | | multiple | | | | | service | | | | | providers | | | | | control for | | | | | advanced V2X | | | | | services | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue #5 | Solution #6 | Clause 6.6.2 | - | | -- Usage of | -- Network | | | | network | situation | | | | analytics | enhanced with | | | | | analytics | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue #6 | Solution #5: | Clause 6.5.2 | - | | -- Enhanced | Enhanced | | | | network | network | | | | monitoring to | monitoring | | | | support | | | | | advanced V2X | | | | | services | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 7.3 Overall evaluation of key issue#1
Key issue#1 on support for high risk VRU zones discussed the following open
issues:
a. Whether and how to enhance VAE layer capabilities to support configuring
the communication parameters for the zones.
b. Whether and how to enhance VAE layer capabilities to translate the zone
configurations to network requirements and zone specific provisioning
parameters.
c. Whether and how to assist the provisioning of zone specific parameters to
the devices which can be potential VRUs and V2X-UEs.
Solution#2 provides a solution for network initiated VRU zone configuration
and operation. It addresses the open issues in a, b and c.
Solution#4 provides a solution for UE initiated configuration and operation of
protection zones.
## 7.4 Overall evaluation of key issue#2
Key issue#2 on support for V2P communications discussed the following open
issues:
a. Whether and how the VAE layer can support the V2P communications
considering the UE situation (e.g. low battery power, weak radio signals)?
b. Whether and how the VAE layer can coordinate the alignment of the
communication traffic patterns with the PC5 QoS setting and the AS layer
configurations (e.g. DRX cycles)?
Solution#1 provides a solution for VAE support for energy efficicent V2P
communications. It addresses the open issues in a and b. The solution#1 is
dependent on SA2 and RAN2.
## 7.5 Overall evaluation of key issue#3
Key issue#3 on V2X service deployment on edge data network discussed the
following open issues:
a. Whether and how V2X application architecture supports the edge enabler
architecture specified in 3GPP TS 23.558 [11].
b. Investigate the the impact on V2X enabler services for edge deployments.
Solution#3 addresses the open issue a of key issue#3 which further enables the
V2X service deployments to utilize edge enabler layer for V2X service
deployments. No impact on V2X enabler services for edge deployments were
identified as per open issue b.
## 7.6 Overall evaluation of key issue#4
Key issue#4 on enhancement to support non-simultaneous multiple service
providers control for advanced V2X services discussed the following open
issues:
a. Whether and how V2X enabler services (e.g. session oriented services) can
support non-simultaneous multiple V2X service provider control for advanced
V2X services.
No solutions were proposed to address this key issue.
## 7.7 Overall evaluation of key issue#5
Key issue#5 on usage of network analytics discussed the following open issues:
a. Whether and how V2X enabler services (e.g. session oriented services, V2X
message delivery) can be enhanced to utilize the network analytics services
specified in 3GPP TS 23.288 [8] and 3GPP TS 23.436 [9].
Solution#6 provides a solution for usage of network analytics offered by ADAE.
It addresses the open issue a.
## 7.8 Overall evaluation of key issue#6
Key issue#6 on enhanced network monitoring to support advanced V2X services
discussed the following open issues:
a. How to enhance the network monitoring procedures considering specific V2X
UE information or group of V2X UE(s) information?
Solution#5 provides a solution for enhanced network monitoring. It addresses
the open issue a.
# 8 Conclusions
This technical report fulfills the objectives of the study on enhancements to
application layer to support advanced V2X services like V2P, ToD, etc and edge
computing deployments for V2X services. The study includes the following:
1) Identification of key issues (clause 4) and corresponding architecture
requirements (clause 5) for enhanced V2X application enabler capabilities.
2) Individual solutions (clause 5) addressing the key issues.
3) Overall evaluation (clause 7) of all the key issues and solutions.
The results from the study will be considered for follow-up normative work in
Release 18 as follows:
1) The architecture requirements (in clause 5) will be considered as the basis
for technical specification with necessary enhancements and additions;
2) The following key issues (clause 4) and individual solutions (clause 6) are
considered to be the candidate solutions with necessary enhancements as
appropriate, according to the overall evaluation (clause 7):
\- For key issue#1, solution#2 is considered and solution#4 can be considered
based on the agreement on the use of protection zones.
\- For key issue#2, solution#1 is considered subjected to capabilities enabled
by SA2 and RAN2.
\- For key issue#3, solution#3 is considered.
\- For key issue#4, there is no solution proposed.
\- For key issue#5, solution#6 is considered.
\- For key issue#6, solution#5 is considered.
#