# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, certain modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
NOTE 1: The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the
context of normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
NOTE 2: The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as
substitutes for \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as
possible, and they are not used in a normative context except in a direct
citation from an external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain
continuity of style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a
referenced document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
NOTE 3: The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
NOTE 4: The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" shall not to be used as
substitutes for \"may\" and \"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
NOTE 5: The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The Technical Report studies and performs evaluations of potential
architecture enhancements to enhance the support of service function chaining
in the 5G Core network (5GC). Specifically, two objectives are included:
WT#2: Investigate whether traffic steering policy is sufficient to support SA
WG1 requirements in TS 22.101 [5], TS 22.261 [6] and TS 22.115 [7], study
whether and how to define Service Function Chaining (SFC) policies, and
investigate solutions and procedures for the 5G network with SFC capabilities
to identify/detect/classify user plane traffic and steer the traffic to a
chain of ordered service functions for SFC processing in non-roaming and home
routed roaming scenarios.
WT#3: Depending on the outcome of WT#2, specify possible enhancement to
northbound APIs for allowing an AF to request network capability exposure
functionalities, e.g. request a service function chain for a certain traffic
flow, etc. based on service level agreement with the third party.
NOTE 1: This study considers only traffic handled over N6 by PSA UPF(s) in 5G
network.
NOTE 2: The definition of terms in RFC 7665 [8] may be re-used when
applicable. The study targets the use of traffic steering concept, e.g.
defined by 3GPP (FMSS) and SFC mechanisms defined in IETF when applicable.
Especially the study aims at reusing user plane mechanisms (e.g. VXLAN, NSH,
GENEVE, GRE, VLAN, etc.) defined at IETF to support SFC, as applicable.
NOTE 3: The study for SFC will ensure that existing (per 3GPP Rel-17)
deployments flexibility can be preserved in deployments of SFC in 5G network.
NOTE 4: The study assumes a Home Routed roaming PDU Session does not have an
offloading point in a VPLMN.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G system, Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.503: \"Policy and Charging Control Framework for the 5G
System\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and Systems Aspects; Service aspects; Service
principles\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for next generation new services
and markets; Stage 1\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.115: \"Service aspects; Charging and billing\".
[8] IETF RFC 7665: \"Service Function Chaining (SFC) Architecture\".
[9] 3GPP TS 29.244: \"Interface between the Control Plane and the User Plane
Nodes\".
[10] IETF RFC 7665: \"Service Function Chain (SFC) Architecture\".
[11] IETF RFC 8300: \"Network Service Header (NSH)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 22.105: \"Services and service capabilities\".
# 3 Definitions of terms and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1], in
TS 23.501 [2] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1] or in TS 23.501 [2].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1], in TS 23.501 [2] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [1] or in TS 23.501 [2].
SF Service Function
SFC Service Function Chaining
# 4 Architectural Assumptions and Principles
The concept of the SFC is as shown in Figure 4-1 and the following assumptions
are applied in this study:
\- Each service function (SF) is an opaque processing element in user plane.
The SF forwarder, and SF behaviour/control are out of scope of this study that
reuses the features defined by IETF for these purposes.
\- The initial classification for the service chain to be applied to traffic
flow is performed by 5GC.
\- The management aspects of SFs, service function paths (SFP), and service
function chains are out of scope of the present TR.
\- Several service function chains can be simultaneously applied within 5GC of
an operator network to meet various business requirements with third parties
based on service level agreements. A traffic flow of a PDU Session is subject
to a single SFP at a given time.
\- The definition of terms and mechanisms in RFC 7665 [8] may be re-used when
applicable.
\- The study targets the use of traffic steering concept, e.g. defined by 3GPP
(FMSS) and SFC mechanisms defined in IETF when applicable. Especially the
study aims at reusing user plane mechanisms (e.g. VXLAN, NSH, GENEVE, GRE,
VLAN, etc.) defined at IETF to support SFC, as applicable.
Figure 4-1: Illustration of the service function chaining concepts
For all objectives, the architectural assumptions and principles include:
\- Solutions shall build on the 5G System architectural principles as in TS
23.501 [2], including flexibility and modularity for newly introduced
functionalities.
\- Service path (i.e. for traffic handled by the service functions) is
traversed over N6 after PSA UPF(s) in 5G network.
\- The case where SFC would apply for a Home Routed roaming PDU Session at an
offloading point in a VPLMN is not considered in this study.
\- Existing (per 3GPP Rel-17) deployments flexibility should be preserved in
deployments of SFC in 5G network.
# 5 Key Issues
## 5.1 Key Issue #1: Traffic Steering Policy and SFC Enhancements
### 5.1.1 Description
Currently, the SMF may be configured with the traffic steering policy related
to the mechanism enabling traffic steering to the N6-LAN, DN and/or DNAIs
associated with N6 traffic routing requirements provided by the AF. Also, UPF
with SFC capabilities need to support flexible SFC configuration for a PDU
session that requires different SFC processing for different applications.
Based on architectural assumptions and principles in clause 4 and service
requirements in clause 6.35 of TS 22.261 [6], this key issue is for WT2 to
study:
\- Whether the existing traffic steering policy is enough to fulfil the SA1
requirements or needs to be enhanced for SFC, and if it needs to be enhanced
whether SFC policy need to be defined and how it relates to traffic steering
policy. If SFC policy is defined, based on the SFC policy definition, what are
the required architecture enhancement for the network functions, interfaces,
and the procedures to enforce SFC policies and/or traffic steering policies to
identify/detect/classify user plane traffic and steer the traffic flows of the
UEs requiring SFC processing for their applications in non-roaming scenarios.
\- If SFC policy is defined, based on the SFC policy definition:
\- Whether and how the HPLMN can apply traffic steering policies and/or SFC
polices for home routed traffic for cases that UE is at VPLMN, UE returns from
VPLMN to HPLMN, or UE changes of serving VPLMN.
\- What are the relationship between traffic steering and SFC processing in
the user plane.
\- What (if any) are the new features that the UPF may support in order to
allow improved Rel-18 SFC capabilities.
\- Whether and how to enhance interfaces and procedures to support UPF with
SFC capability including how such capabilities may be available, discovered,
and controlled by the SMF.
NOTE: 5GC exposure aspects are addressed in another Key Issue.
## 5.2 Key Issue #2: Exposure to enable AF to request predefined SFC for
traffic flow(s) related with target UE(s)
### 5.2.1 Description
For allowing an AF, e.g. a third party AF, to request predefined SFC for
traffic flow(s), etc. (when the AF belongs to a third party, this is based on
service level agreement with the third party), this key issue will study
solutions on:
\- How to enable support for AF to request usage of predefined SFC/SFP(s) for
traffic flow(s) related with target UE(s).
\- Whether and if yes how to enhance network capability exposure
functionalities based on solutions of the User plane related Key issue (WT#2).
This includes leveraging that Key issue work on whether the existing traffic
steering policy is enough to fulfil the SA1 requirements.
\- Based on the requests from the AF, what are the solutions and procedures to
interact with network functions in the 5GC.
# 6 Solutions
## 6.0 Mapping of Solutions to Key Issues
Table 6.0-1: Mapping of Solutions to Key Issues
                                                                                                               Key Issues
* * *
Solutions #1 #2  
Solution based on existing TSP for N6-LAN X  
AF influence with explicit traffic steering policies per flow X  
AF influencing Service Function Chaining support by 5GC X  
SFC support in 5GS X X  
UPF enhancement with SFC capability X  
Service Function Chaining Configuration X  
Enhancing Application Function influence on traffic routing to an N6-LAN based
on pre-defined SFC policies X  
Solution X: AF to request predefined SFC for traffic flow(s) related with
target UE(s) X X
## 6.1 Solution #1: Re-use of existing TSP for N6-LAN
### 6.1.1 Description
#### 6.1.1.1 Solution Description
This solution is based on the existing Rel-17 solution for steering the
subscriber\'s traffic to appropriate operator or 3rd party service functions
(e.g. NAT, antimalware, parental control, DDoS protection) in the N6-LAN, as
described in e.g. TS 23.503 [4]. The solution is also summarized in Annex A.
The solution is based on the following key aspects, based on existing
standards:
\- The PCF determines a policy per SDF/application for the purpose of steering
the subscriber\'s traffic to appropriated N6 service functions deployed by the
operator or a 3rd party service provider. The policy is expressed in a Traffic
Steering Policy (TSP) ID that may be separate in UL and DL directions.
\- The TSP ID refers to a traffic steering behaviour that is configured in the
SMF/UPF.
\- The PCF provides the TSP ID in the PCC rules to SMF.
\- The UPF indicates its capability to support traffic steering in N4 and in
UPF profile in NRF, as described in TS 29.244 [9]. The SMF may take this
capability into account when selecting UPF.
\- The SMF instructs the UPF to perform necessary actions to enforce the
traffic steering policy referenced by the PCF. This includes the provisioning
of corresponding PDRs, FARs, QERs etc. In particular, the SMF creates a FAR
with the Forwarding Policy parameters set to the TSP ID.
\- The UPF performs the necessary actions to enforce the forwarding policy
referenced by the SMF, e.g. performing packet marking and routing the traffic
towards the service functions within the N6-LAN.
As referred in clause 6.3.3 of TS 23.501 [2], several parameter(s) and
information may be considered by the SMF for UPF selection and re-selection,
e.g.:
\- Capability of the UPF and the functionality required for the particular UE
session: An appropriate UPF can be selected by matching the functionality and
features required for a UE.
\- How the SMF determines information about the user plane network topology
and what information is considered by the SMF, is based on operator
configuration.
In this particular context, SMF shall be able to select appropriate UPF
regards specific Traffic Steering Policy based on:
\- If UPF indicated that Traffic Steering is supported by the UP function
(TRST flag already present in clause 8.2.25 of TS 29.244 [9] and part of
association procedure).
\- It is assumed that 5GC configuration is homogeneous for providing the same
set of traffic steering policies within same DNAI/ DNN/ S-NSSAI. SMF can
select then, UPF based on DNAI / DNN / S-NSSAI.
#### 6.1.1.2 Analysis of Stage 1 requirements
Below the new SA WG1 requirements introduced for SFC in Rel-18 are listed and
comparison with the current TSP based solution is provided.
Table 6.1.1-1: Analysis of Stage 1 requirements
+-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | TS | Stage 1 requirement | Comment | +=================+========================+========================+ | TS 22.101 [5] | _30 Flexible Mobile | These are pre-rel-18 | | | Service Steering_ | requirements. | | | | Fulfilled based on TSP | | | _30.1 Introduction_ | ID. | | | | | | | _In order to realize | | | | efficient and flexible | | | | mobile service | | | | steering in (S)Gi-LAN, | | | | the network operator | | | | uses information (e.g. | | | | user profile, network | | | | operator\'s policies, | | | | RAT type, application | | | | characteristics) to | | | | define traffic | | | | steering policies. | | | | These policies are | | | | used to steer the | | | | subscriber\'s traffic | | | | to appropriate | | | | enablers (e.g. NAT, | | | | antimalware, parental | | | | control, DDoS | | | | protection) in the | | | | (S)Gi-LAN._ | | | | | | | | _The term (S)Gi-LAN | | | | used in the present | | | | document represents a | | | | system which is out of | | | | 3GPP scope. | | | | Corresponding term for | | | | the 5G network is | | | | N6-LAN._ | | | | | | | | _For traffic steering | | | | to service functions | | | | in 5G network, | | | | enhancement beyond the | | | | service requirements | | | | below are defined in | | | | TS 22.261 [6]._ | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | TS 22.261 [6] | _6.35 Service Function | Current solution | | | Chaining_ | already allows to | | | | steer the traffic per | | | _6.35.1 Introduction_ | application and UE | | | | basis to appropriate | | | _In order to support | ordered service | | | enhancement of service | functions using | | | function chaining for | Traffic Steering | | | 5G networks beyond the | Policy (TSP) | | | requirements for FMSS | | | | in TS 22.101, the | PCF can send this TSP | | | network operator | to SMF. SMF can send | | | defines service | PDRs to UPF using | | | function chaining | associated FAR | | | policies for service | forwarding policies. | | | function chaining to | It can be modified and | | | steer the traffic | distinguished between | | | associated to the | upstream and | | | application and its | downstream as it is | | | users on per UE basis | needed with a specific | | | to appropriate ordered | PDR with PDI elements | | | service functions._ | for uplink matching | | | | criteria and other for | | | _A service function | downlink. | | | chain for 5G networks | | | | contains service | | | | functions such as | | | | firewall functions, | | | | NAT, antimalware, | | | | parental control, DDoS | | | | protection, TCP | | | | proxies, load | | | | balancers, KPI | | | | monitoring, and video | | | | optimization, etc._ | | | | | | | | _NOTE: these are | | | | non-exhaustive | | | | examples of service | | | | functions. Other | | | | service functions can | | | | be provided by an | | | | operator._ | | | | | | | | _6.35.2 General | | | | Requirements_ | | | | | | | | _The following | | | | requirements apply for | | | | supporting enhancement | | | | of service function | | | | chaining for 5G | | | | networks:_ | | | | | | | | _The network operator | | | | shall be able to | | | | define and modify | | | | service function | | | | chaining policies for | | | | steering traffic on | | | | per application per UE | | | | basis through required | | | | service function | | | | chaining with ordered | | | | service functions to | | | | improve the user\'s | | | | QoE._ | | | | | | | | _Service functions | | | | chaining policies | | | | shall be able to | | | | distinguish between | | | | upstream and | | | | downstream traffic._ | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | | _The coexistence of | Coexistence of traffic | | | traffic with and | with and without | | | without service | service function | | | function chaining | chaining is supported | | | shall be supported._ | as Traffic Steering | | | | Policy (TSP), routing | | | | influence, and | | | | forwarding parameters | | | | in FAR on N4 are | | | | optional. | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | | _Service function | AF can already | | | chaining shall provide | influence traffic | | | suitable means for | routing by providing | | | authorized third | routing information | | | parties to request a | with e.g. routing | | | chain of service | profile ID that may | | | functions provided by | refers to a pre-agreed | | | the network operator | policy between the AF | | | based on operator\'s | and the 5GC. However, | | | service function | an enhancement is | | | chaining policies._ | proposed in Solution | | | | #2. | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | | _In case of roaming, | Service Chaining based | | | the HPLMN shall be | on TSP ID already | | | able to apply traffic | covers HPLMN to apply | | | steering policies and | the steering policies | | | service function | for home routed | | | chaining polices for | roaming. | | | home routed traffic._ | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | | _In case of roaming | This point was scoped | | | with local breakout, | out from the SA WG2 | | | the HPLMN shall be | study. | | | able to provide the | | | | traffic steering | | | | policies and service | | | | function chaining | | | | policies to the VPLMN | | | | providing local | | | | breakout with support | | | | of service function | | | | chaining._ | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | | _Service function | This is up to operator | | | chaining shall support | deployment and SLA | | | deployments where the | with third parties. It | | | Hosted Services are | is supported by | | | provided by the | current traffic | | | operator and | steering solution as | | | deployments where the | described in | | | Hosted Services are | TS 23.503 [4]: | | | provided by a third | | | | party._ | \"The traffic steering | | | | control consists in | | | | ...\... | | | | applying a specific N6 | | | | traffic steering | | | | policy for the purpose | | | | of steering the | | | | subscriber\'s traffic | | | | to appropriated N6 | | | | service functions | | | | deployed by the | | | | operator or a 3rd | | | | party service provider | | | | as described below.\" | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+
There are also additional SA WG1 requirements related to service function
management and charging (including also clause 5.2.14 of TS 22.105 [12]).
These are not explicitly analysed above since:
\- SF deployment, management and definition are out of scope of SA WG2.
\- SF charging is out of scope of SA2. It could however be noted that the TSP
based solution allows differentiated charging per service chain, since the PCF
can select Charging Key in the PCC rule based e.g. on TSP ID.
\- Service Chains are predefined by the operator and then be referenced by TSP
ID.
\- Steering protocols to be used (e.g. for encapsulation and/or packet
marking) are configured at UPF based on SLA, and it is out of scope of 3GPP
what is already described in RFC standards.
### 6.1.2 Procedures
The procedure below shows an example with dynamic PCC Rules. It is also
possible to activate predefined PCC Rules with traffic steering policy applied
by UPF (not shown in the figure).
Figure 6.1.2-1: Procedure using traffic steering policy
1\. The PCF makes a policy decision and creates a PCC Rule with SDF filter
information or Application ID, TSP IDs, Charging Key, etc.
2\. The SMF creates N4 rules based on the PCC Rule content.
3\. The UPF applies the configured forwarding behaviour to steer the traffic
to the appropriate Service Chain based on TSP IDs, e.g. encapsulation, packet
marking, forwarding.
### 6.1.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
No impacts to current standard.
Assumptions: All UPFs in the operator network serving as PSA for the
DNN/S-NSSAI/DNAI that is used for traffic that is potentially subject to SFC
controls need to be configured with traffic steering information towards all
SFPs supported on that DNN/S-NSSAI/DNAI.
## 6.2 Solution #2: _AF influence with explicit traffic steering policies per
flow_
### 6.2.1 Description
In order to fulfill traffic steering policies using AF routing influence
directly, without re-using the existing routing profiles provided by AF, it
can be added new elements in the interface so that traffic steering policies
can be explicitly requested per flow.
The PCF then provides PCC rules including traffic steering policies based on
the traffic steering that are explicitly requested from AF (directly or
through NEF).
Note that currently in PCC rule information in 5GC, the traffic routing
policies and traffic steering policies are considered mutually exclusive (see
NOTE 18 in table 6.3.1 of TS 23.503 [4]). That means that the PCC rule either
indicates traffic steering or N6 traffic routing, but not both simultaneously.
It is also not clear how the UPF would handle a PCC Rule that contains
(potentially conflicting) Routing Profile IDs and Traffic Steering Policy IDs.
Therefore, in order to not impact further in PCF, SMF and UPF, the proposal is
to add new traffic steering rules ID(s) from AF in mutually exclusive way with
current routing info and/or routing profile ID.
This solution thus proposes to add Traffic Steering Policy ID(s) to the
existing Nnef_TrafficInfluence (and NpcfPolicyAutorization,
Nudr_DataNotification). The AF request can either contain AF-TSP-ID(s) (if two
Traffic steering policy identifiers are provided, then one is for uplink
direction, while the other one is for downlink direction) for Service Chaining
or Traffic Routes for steering to a local DN, not both. PCF may use AF-TSP
ID(s) directly, or map to locally defined TSP ID(s) provided to the SMF in the
PCC Rule to avoid that AF needs to know how TSP ID are set in the 5GC and
therefore isolate it from system configuration changes.
As referred in clause 6.3.3 of TS 23.501 [2], several parameter(s) and
information may be considered by the SMF for UPF selection and re-selection,
e.g.:
\- Capability of the UPF and the functionality required for the particular UE
session: An appropriate UPF can be selected by matching the functionality and
features required for a UE.
\- How the SMF determines information about the user plane network topology
and what information is considered by the SMF, is based on operator
configuration.
In this particular context, SMF shall be able to select appropriate UPF
regards specific Traffic Steering Policy based on:
\- If UPF indicated that Traffic Steering is supported by the UP function
(TRST flag already present in clause 8.2.25 of TS 29.244 [9] and part of
association procedure).
\- It is assumed that 5GC configuration is homogeneous for providing the same
set of traffic steering policies within same DNAI/ DNN/ S-NSSAI. SMF can then
select then, UPF based on DNAI / DNN / S-NSSAI.
### 6.2.2 Procedures
The procedure below shows an example of AF using the Traffic Influence API to
allow an AF to request a predefined SFC.
Figure 6.2.2-1: Procedure using traffic steering policy
1\. AF uses Nnef_TrafficInfluence API to influence how to route a specific
traffic on specific session, by providing the UE IP address together with the
request. The AF includes AF Traffic Steering Policy ID(s) in the request. The
NEF identifies the PCF serving the PDU Session and triggers a
Npcf_PolicyAuthorization Request, as described in clause 4.3.6.4 of TS 23.502
[3].
2\. AF uses Nnef_TrafficInfluence API to influence how to route a specific
traffic for a UE ID or a group of UEs, by providing UE ID (GPSI) or External
Group ID together with the request. The AF includes AF Traffic Steering Policy
ID(s) in the request. The NEF stores the information in the UDR, as described
in clause 4.3.6.2 of TS 23.502 [3].
3\. PCF used the AF TSP ID(s) requested by the AF and creates PCC rule(s) with
TSP ID(s).
4\. PCF sends PCC rule(s) to the SMF.
5\. SMF sends PDRs information to identify the traffic and forwards it
accordingly with the TSPs.
6\. UPF applies the PDRs with specific forwarding policies based on TSP ID.
### 6.2.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
AF: Support of providing new information in the Nnef_TrafficInfluence API, to
provide explicitly traffic steering policy ID(s) (AF-TSPs) in its requests.
NEF: Support of new information in the Nnef_TrafficInfluence API, and pass it
to UDR and PCF.
UDR: Supports storage AT-TSP IDs in the AF influence in routing parameters.
PCF: Accepts new information and use it (or maps to local TSP defined) as
traffic steering policies associated to the PCC rule(s) impacted.
No normative impacts to SMF and UPF. It is assumed that all UPFs in the
operator network serving as PSA for the DNN/S-NSSAI/DNAI that is used for
traffic that is potentially subject to SFC controls need to be configured with
traffic steering information towards all SFPs supported for that
DNN/S-NSSAI/DNAI.
## 6.3 Solution #3: AF influencing Service Function Chaining support by 5GC
### 6.3.1 Description
This solution addresses mostly Key Issue #2.
As already specified by IETF in RFC 7665 [10], Service Function Chain (SFC) is
defined as a logical representation of an ordered set (sequence) of Service
Functions that need to successively handle some traffic, e.g. traffic is first
handled by SF1 (e.g. Deep Packet Inspection (DPI)), then SF 2 (e.g. TCP/IP
optimization) and lastly by SF 3 (e.g. Firewall). Service Function Path (SFP)
is an implementation/instance of an SFC. In other words, an SFC can be
implemented as more than one different SFP instances (e.g. different
instances/SFP corresponding to different N6 interfaces between 5GS and the
DN). In an SFC the next hop SF (Service Function) may be determined based on
the result of traffic processing by the previous SF.
The solution aims at improving how an AF can better control SFC related
traffic classification in 5GC; it does not address SF control / deployment or
SFF (Service Flow Forwarding) that are out of scope of the study.
Current traffic steering allows an AF to refer to abstract traffic steering
policies that are predefined in 5GC: the AF cannot control the mapping from
these abstract traffic steering policies to the actual user plane actions
carried out by the PSA UPF (adding Vxlan/NSH/... headers to the traffic
referred to as SFP Id and metadata information in this solution). This is
suitable for SFC entirely controlled by the 5GC operators
The format of the SFP Id and of metadata (when provided) being referred to
refers to existing IETF specifications such as the IETF specifications
defining VxLAN and NSH.
Current Traffic steering control includes applying a specific N6 Traffic
Steering Policy (TSP) to steer traffic to N6. TSP ID(s) are mapped within the
5GC based on local configuration: in PCF, in SMF or in UPF; this means that AF
that can\'t influence the local configuration for TSP mapping lacks control on
service flow classification in 5GC.
NOTE: Rel-17 specification (TS 23.501 [2]) e.g. tells \"The PCF, based on
information received from the AF, operator\'s policy, optionally service
experience analytics per UP path received from NWDAF, etc. authorizes the
request received from the AF and determines for each DNAI, a traffic steering
policy ID (derived from the routing profile ID provided by the AF) and/or the
N6 traffic routing information (as provided by the AF) to be sent to the SMF
as part of the PCC rules. The traffic steering policy IDs are configured in
the SMF or in the UPF. The traffic steering policy IDs are related to the
mechanism enabling traffic steering to the DN\".
For this scenario it is desirable for the AF to be able to discover the SFC(s)
made available by the 5GC operator.
The SFC information, i.e. the available SFCs and their types, as well as the
service path related classification tag (referred to as SFP Id and metadata
information in this solution) and DNAI, is available to 5GC so that such
information can be exposed to the AF via NEF API, and the AF can therefore
associate some traffic with a certain SFC by indicating the SFC ID. This
corresponds to Rel-17 specifications where the TSP ID takes the value of the
SFC ID.
NOTE 3: When the 3^RD^ party can use SFP and SF(s) deployed by the operator
following issue can take place: if the operator changes the configuration of
the SF(s) then it can change the data service provided to the (3rd party)
users of the SFP/SF(s). When as in scenario 2, the 3^rd^ party manages the
SFC/SFP/SF(s) and uses just 5GC as traffic classifier (to identify and tag the
traffic and send it to the SFP(s)) there is no such issue as the same entity
(3^rd^ party) manages the SFP(s) and uses it.
NEF APIs is used:
(new) NEF (optional) API allowing the AF to contact 5GC to discover available
SFC/SFP. This allows the AF to discover SFC(s) that are deployed by the
operator. This is intended for the first scenario.
NOTE 4: The NEF API allowing the AF to discover available SFC/SFP is just an
optional capability to facilitate invocation of the NEF API allowing the AF to
associate certain traffic and UE(s) with 5GC defined SFC/SFP(s) identified by
traffic steering policies.
The AF provides a SFC ID to NEF in Nnef_SFCInfluence.
NOTE: As soon as a 3^RD^ party use SFP and SF(s) deployed by the operator, if
the operator changes the configuration of the SF(s) then the operator may
change the data service provided to the (3rd party) users of the SFP/SF(s).
### 6.3.2 Procedures
#### 6.3.2.0 Introduction
The SFC / SFP configuration (from the AF) aims at providing PCF with
information on:
\- Traffic classification (SFC classification role of the PSA UPF):
\- Which PDU Session should a SFC apply to, for which UE(s), DNN(s) and or
S-NSSAI(s));
\- Which traffic of such PDU Session is to be handled by the SFC.
\- (for the second scenario) the How should the UPF \"tag\" (e.g. NSH / VXLAN
tag etc.) the classified traffic for each SFP associated with the SFC (SFP Id
and metadata information to be used by the UPF).
The above information is used by PCF to create PCC rules for PDU Sessions. In
order to support the second scenario PCC rules and N4 rules (FAR) need
extension to carry the SFP Id and metadata information. For example, the FAR /
Outer header creation information needs new values corresponding to NSH /
VXLAN tag etc to be added after SFC classification done by the PSA UPF.
For the NEF, the following new northbound APIs are introduced:
\- Nnef_SFCInfluence: This API allows an AF to associate traffic that is
identified by traffic filters and UE(s) (e.g. one UE, a group of UEs, a (set
of) DNN/SNSSAI pair, etc.) with SFC and SFP(s).
When the solution refers to \"Nnef_SFCInfluence\", updates to
Nnef_TrafficInfluence may fulfill the requirements set by the solution.
When SFCInfluence targets multiple UEs the NEF stores the AF policy in an UDR
record.
The PCF(s) that have subscribed to modifications of AF requests (Data Set =
Application Data; Data Subset = SFC or traffic influence request information,
Data Key = S-NSSAI and DNN and/or Internal Group Identifier or SUPI)
receive(s) a Nudr_DM_Notify notification of data change from the UDR.
The keys for these data in UDR are:
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | AF Nnef_SFCInfluence information | AF transaction internal ID | +===================================+===================================+ | | S-NSSAI and DNN | | | | | | and/or | | | | | | Internal Group Identifier or SUPI | +-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
This is further defined in clause 6.3.2.1.
\- Nnef_SFCDefinition: This API allows an AF to discover SFCs for the first
scenario. The AF can also subscribe to be notified when new SFCs are deployed
or existing SFCs are undeployed or modified. In case of SFC discovery, the NEF
returns the Identifier of the available SFC(s) and an ordered list of service
functions in each SFC to NEF which forwards the information to the AF.
NOTE: The name of each service function should be understandable to the AF,
(allowing AF to understand that SFC 1 has Parental control first then NAT,
then FW); such naming convention may be based on SLA with the AF.
NOTE: Nnef_SFCDefinition assume that via SLA the operator and the third party
agree on a common understanding on the name of each service function and
let\'s the 5GC operator the possibility to create SFC(s) using these SF
without needing to update the SLA.
Usage of Nnef_SFCDefinition is further defined in clause 6.3.2.3.
#### 6.3.2.1 Procedure to associate SFC with certain traffic and UE(s)
Figure 6.3.2.1-1: Associating an SFC with certain traffic and UE(s)
0\. The PCF(s) subscribe to modifications of AF requests with
Nudr_DM_Subscribe (Data Set = Application Data; Data Subset = AF SFC influence
request information, Data Key = S-NSSAI and DNN and/or Internal Group
Identifier or SUPI).
1\. The AF is made aware of the available SFC(s). This may be via mechanisms
of Figure 6.3.4-1 or via mechanism out of scope (e.g. SLA).
2\. AF issues Nnef_SFCInfluence_Create request. The request may include
\- traffic filters of the traffic to which the SFC applies;
\- the identification of the target UE(s) (one UE a group of UE(s) or any UE),
possibly the target DNN, S-NSSAI (if this is not provided by the AF, the NEF
determines the target (DNN(s), S-NSSAI(s) based on the AF identifier);
\- (for the second scenario) for each SFP associated with the SFC, the SFP Id
and metadata information on how should the UPF \"tag\" (e.g. NSH / VXLAN tag
etc.) the classified traffic;
\- in scenario 1 the AF provides a SFC ID Nnef_SFCInfluence;
\- AF Transaction Id.
To update or remove an existing request, the AF invokes a
Nnef_SFCInfluence_Update or Nnef_SFCInfluence_Delete service operation
providing the corresponding AF Transaction Id.
3\. (in the case of Nnef_ SFCInfluence_Create or _Update): The NEF stores the
AF request information in the UDR (Data Set = Application Data; Data Subset =
AF SFC influence request information, Data Key = AF Transaction Internal ID,
S-NSSAI and DNN and/or Internal Group Identifier or SUPI).
NOTE: Both the AF Transaction Internal ID and, S-NSSAI and DNN and/or Internal
Group Identifier or SUPI are regarded as Data Key when the AF request
information are stored into the UDR.
(In the case of Nnef_SFCInfluence_Delete): The NEF deletes the AF requirements
in the UDR (Data Set = Application Data; Data Subset = AF SFC influence
request information, Data Key = AF Transaction Internal ID).
3b. The NEF responds to the AF.
4\. The PCF(s) that have subscribed to modifications of AF requests (Data Set
= Application Data; Data Subset = AF SFC influence request information, Data
Key = S-NSSAI and DNN and/or Internal Group Identifier or SUPI) receive(s) a
Nudr_DM_Notify notification of data change from the UDR.
5\. The PCF determines if existing PDU Sessions are potentially impacted by
the AF request. For each of existing or new PDU Sessions, the PCF updates the
SMF with corresponding policy information about the PDU Session by invoking
Npcf_SMPolicyControl_UpdateNotify Npcf_SMPolicyControl_Create service
operation as described in clause 4.16 of TS 23.502 [3].
(For the second scenario) policy information indicates for each SFP, how the
UPF should \"tag\" (e.g. NSH / VXLAN tag etc.) the classified traffic
identified by the PCC rule traffic filters.
(For the first scenario) The PCF maps the SFC ID to a TSP ID provided in the
PCC rules: policy information indicates how the UPF should \"tag\" (e.g. via
traffic steering identifiers etc.) the classified traffic identified by the
corresponding SF filter(s).
6\. When policy information about the PDU Session is received from the PCF,
the SMF may take appropriate actions to configure the User Plane of the PDU
Session (policy information received at PDU Session establishment) or
reconfigure the User Plane of the PDU Session (policy information while a PDU
Session establishment is already established).
NOTE: How the 5GC selects the PSA UPF that can support traffic classification
and tagging for SFPs corresponding to AF request of the 3rd party is discussed
in clause 6.3.2.4.
(For the second scenario) N4 rules (FAR/ Outer Header creation) indicate how
the UPF should \"tag\" (e.g. NSH / VXLAN tag etc.) the classified traffic
identified by the corresponding PDR(s).
(For the first scenario) N4 rules (FAR/ Outer Header creation) indicate how
the UPF should \"tag\" (e.g. via traffic steering identifiers etc.) the
classified traffic identified by the corresponding PDR(s).
#### 6.3.2.2 Procedure to associate SFC with an individual UE
If an SFC needs to be associated with an individual UE identified by its
address, BSF is involved to select the corresponding PCF.
Figure 6.3.2.2-1: Associating an SFC with an individual UE
1\. The AF sends the AF request via NEF, and the
Nnef_SFCInfluence_Create/Update/Delete Request targets an individual UE
address. This request corresponds to an AF request to influence the
association of an SFC to an individual UE address.
2\. NEF consumes Nbsf_Management_Discovery service operation (providing at
least the UE address) to find out the address of the relevant PCF if the PCF
address is not available on the NEF based on local configuration.
NOTE: The NEF finds the BSF based on local configuration or using the NRF.
3\. BSF provides the PCF address in the Nbsf_Management_Discovery response to
NEF.
4\. NEF invokes the Npcf_PolicyAuthorization service to the PCF to transfer
the AF request.
5\. As in steps 5 and 6 of Figure 6.3.2.1-1.
#### 6.3.2.3 Discovery of available SFCs
The AF may discover the available SFCs deployed over N6 via NEF with a new
Nnef_SFCDefinition service. This is further described in the rest of this
clause.
Figure 6.3.2.3-1: Discovering available SFC(s)
1\. The AF uses Nnef_SFCDefinition_GET to request a catalogue / list of
existing SFC(s) matching some criteria (such as SFC involving NFx and NFy; the
criteria could also list all existing SFC(s)). The NEF validates the request
and forwards it to the O&M together with information on the AF Id and on the
allowed (DNN, S-NSSAI) for the request.
2\. The O&M entity responds with a list of SFC(s) that:
\- match the criteria requested by the AF, or
\- are allowed for the AF (for example that apply to the slices and AF Id
indicated by the NEF).
The O&M entity response contains a list of SFC(s) with at least their SFC ID,
the ordered set of NFs of the SFC. This response is forwarded by the NEF using
Nnef_SFCDefinition_GET result to the AF.
After the AF selects one SFC based on its own requirement, the AF can
procedure to associate certain traffic and UE(s) to the selected SFC, as
illustrated in Figure 6.3.2.2-1.
#### 6.3.2.4 Selection of an UPF that supports the proper SFC/SFP
At PDU Session establishment (and when it selects a new PSA UPF, e.g. when
IPV6 Multi-Homing applies), the SMF needs to ensure that it selects PSA UPF(s)
that can support traffic classification and tagging that may be required by
PCC rules applying to the PDU Session where these PCC rules correspond to
corresponding to SPF related AF requests.
The operator can have SLAs with multiple 3rd parties and the predefined SFPs
for distinct 3rd parties can be deployed in distinct UPFs or in the same
UPF(s).
When a UPF is registered / registers in NRF its capability to support a (DNN,
S-NSSAI) this means that it supports the classification capability and traffic
tagging capabilities (e.g. support NSH header insertion and/or support VxLAN
addressing) required by SFP(s) applicable for this (DNN, S-NSSAI). Thus when
the SMF selects a PSA UPF that supports the DNN and slice of the PDU Session
this ensures that this PSA UPF can support traffic classification and traffic
tagging capabilities that may be needed to support SFP(s) that may be required
by an AF request that applies to this PDU Session. When PSA UPF(s) with very
specific capabilities are required to handle some traffic the URSP sent to the
UE guide the UE to use for this traffic a (DNN, S-NSSAI) leading the SMF to
select these PSA UPF(s)
This does not mean that all traffic filters values and traffic tagging values
are known in advance and defined as part of the SLA between the operator and
the Third party. Nnef_SFCInfluence allows the 3^rd^ party to define new set of
traffic filters and of traffic tagging values but within predefined
capabilities negotiated in the SLA with the third party
### 6.3.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
\- A new NEF API(s) and possibly updates to Nnef_TrafficInfluence.
\- PCC rules and N4 rules (FAR) need extension to carry the SFP Id and
metadata information (traffic tagging information) to support the second
scenario.
\- The format of the SFP Id and of metadata (when provided) being referred to
refers to existing IETF specifications such as the IETF specifications
defining VxLAN and NSH.
\- It is assumed that all UPFs in the operator network serving as PSA for the
DNN/S-NSSAI/DNAI that is used for traffic that is potentially subject to SFC
controls need to be configured with traffic steering information towards all
SFPs supported for that DNN/S-NSSAI/DNAI.
## 6.4 Solution #4: SFC support in 5GS
### 6.4.1 Description
This solution addresses Key Issue#1 (Traffic Steering Policy and SFC
Enhancements) and Key Issue#2 (Exposure to enable AF to request predefined SFC
for traffic flow(s) related with target UE(s)).
This solution proposal assumes that there is a service level agreement between
the operator and a third party that includes a list of authorized predefined
Service Function Paths (SFPs), each SFP being identified by a Service Function
Chaining Identifier (SFP ID). Each SFP implements a set of pre-agreed policies
(i.e. an ordered set of operations to be applied on the user plane packets)
whose definition is outside of SA WG2 scope. By indicating an SFP ID, the
third party can request that selected traffic flows be steered towards a
specific SFP, either at PDU Session establishment or any time after PDU
Session establishment.
The service level agreement can also contain a pre-agreed set of Metadata that
the third party is allowed to insert into the SFP. Example use of Metadata is
to allow the third party to include/exclude specific service operation in/from
the SFP (e.g. age verification, denial of using specific application, etc.)
for selected users.
The solution reuses the following definition from RFC 7665 [8].
_-__Metadata:__Provides the ability to exchange context information between
classifiers and SFs, and among SFs._
_-__Service Function Path (SFP):__The service function path is a constrained
specification of where packets assigned to a certain service function path
must go. While it may be so constrained as to identify the exact locations, it
can also be less specific. The SFP provides a level of indirection between the
fully abstract notion of service chain as a sequence of abstract service
functions to be delivered, and the fully specified notion of exactly which
SFF/SFs the packet will visit when it actually traverses the network. By
allowing the control components to specify this level of indirection, the
operator may control the degree of SFF/SF selection authority that is
delegated to the network._
_-__SFC Encapsulation:__The SFC encapsulation provides, at a minimum, SFP
identification, and is used by the SFC-aware functions, such as the SFF and
SFC-aware SFs. The SFC encapsulation is not used for network packet
forwarding. In addition to SFP identification, the SFC encapsulation carries
metadata including data-plane context information._
#### 6.4.1.1 Architecture Assumption
This solution assumes that there is a user plane function with SFC capability
(denoted as UPF-SFC), which interfaces with the PDU Session Anchor (UPF-PSA)
over the N6 reference point. The UPF-SFC includes at least the Service
Classification Function as defined in IETF RFC 7665 [8]. In addition, the UPF-
SFC may include support for SFC Encapsulation, SFC Forwarding Function, etc.
as described in IETF RFC 7665 [8]).
In the Control Plane the following network functions are impacted for handling
of the SFP ID and/or Metadata: NEF, UDR, SMF and PCF.
Figure 6.4.1-1 shows the 5G system architecture for SFC support.
Figure 6.4.1-1: 5G system architecture for SFC support (uplink traffic)
Figure 6.4.1-2: 5G system architecture for SFC support (downlink traffic)
Uplink traffic: solid orange line for traffic that is steered to the UPF-SFC;
dashed orange line for traffic that goes directly to the Data Network as
illustrated in Figure 6.4.1-1.
Downlink traffic: solid green line for traffic that is steered to the UPF-SFC;
dashed green line for traffic that goes directly to the UE as illustrated in
Figure 6.4.1-2.
In Figure 6.4.1-2, it is assumed that each SFP for downlink traffic enforces
the steering of processed traffic flows back into the same UPF-SFC.
In pre-Rel-18 3GPP specifications, the AF can provide traffic steering
information (TSI) that can contain e.g. targeted traffic descriptor, a list of
DNAI(s), a Routing Profile ID and/or N6 routing information. As an example,
the traffic steering information can instruct the UPF to select a specific
preconfigured tunnel on N6 for the traffic flows matching the traffic
descriptor.
This solution proposes that the main SFC-specific impact (i.e. SFC service
classification, SFP selection, SFC encapsulation etc.) is concentrated in the
UPF-SFC. The other impacted functions (PCF, NEF, SMF, UDR) primarily
participate in forwarding of the SFC-specific parameters (SFP ID and Metadata)
between the AF and the UPF-SFC.
An example deployment option would be where the SFC is hosted in a trusted
Edge Data Network environment and is operated by a trusted 3rd party. The AF
in the trusted Edge Data Network environment can dynamically make decisions
for steering of selected traffic flows onto a selected SFP and optionally
convey Metadata to the Service Functions on that SFP. Such a deployment
corresponds to RFC 8300 [11] Figure 10 (External Metadata and Policy), whereby
an external network can provide Metadata containing classification information
for policy enforcement and context information for forwarding packets within
an SFC.
The following are the salient features of this solution:
\- The UPF-PSA uses existing mechanisms for packet data detection (local
F-TEID and SDF filters) and forwarding (remote F-TEID) to steer the targeted
traffic flows towards the UPF-SFC. There is no specification impact on the
UPF-PSA.
\- In the presence of multiple UPF-PSAs and multiple UPF-SFCs, the traffic
forwarding between a specific UPF-PSA and a specific UPF-SFC takes place over
a pair of N6s tunnels associated with the UPF-PSA and UPF-SFC, one tunnel per
traffic direction as illustrated in Figure 6.4.1-1 and Figure 6.4.1-2. This
pair of N6s tunnels is set up dynamically by the SMF and is UE-specific. The
same pair of tunnels can be used for all traffic flows between UPF-PSA and
UPF-SFC for this UE, regardless of the SFP that is used at the UPF-SFC.
\- Note that due to the \"hairpin\" forwarding of downlink traffic over N6s,
the N6s tunnel for downlink traffic is used in both directions. In contrast,
the N6s tunnel for uplink traffic is used in one direction only.
\- The UPF-PSA is the IP anchor point for the PDU sessions. When downlink
traffic arrives at the UPF-PSA from the Data Network (see Figure 6.4.1-2), the
UPF-PSA detects the traffic that is subject to SFC and steers it towards the
UPF-SFC based on the FAR configured in the UPF-PSA. Once the service function
processing is applied in UPF-SFC, the DL traffic is sent from the UPF-SFC to
the UPF-PSA based on the FAR configuration in the UPF-SFC which is then
further forwarded towards the UE by the UPF-PSA.
NOTE 1: When the SFP for uplink traffic contains a Network Address Translation
(NAT) device, the corresponding downlink traffic will arrive directly at the
NAT device. In that case, after performing the network address translation,
the NAT device needs to steer the downlink packet towards the N6 interface of
the UPF-PSA. The steering is performed via standard IP routing because the new
IP address will automatically steer the downlink packet towards the N6
interface of the UPF-PSA.
\- Uplink traffic that is not subject to SFC can break out directly to the DN
via N6 (see Figure 6.4.1-1). Downlink traffic always enters the 5GS at the
UPF-PSA and only selected traffic is steered towards SFC (via \"hairpin\"
forwarding), while the rest of the traffic is forwarded to N3/N9.
\- The UPF with SFC capability (UPF-SFC) deploys an SFC functionality with
several SFPs corresponding to pre-defined SFC polices as indicated in Figure
6.4.1-1 and Figure 6.4.1-2.
\- The AF indicates the SFP ID and optionally Metadata for a selected target
(e.g. a traffic flow, a UE, a group of UEs, etc.) per traffic direction.
\- The PCF authorizes the requested SFP ID(s) and Metadata strings (if
provided by the AF) e.g. by checking whether it is part of a pre-agreed SFP ID
list in the service level agreement. The 5GC may need to parse or interpret
the Metadata strings e.g. to check whether the requested Metadata strings is
on the agreed SLA list, but it does not make any other use of the Metadata
strings apart from forwarding it to the UPF-SFC.
\- The SMF indicates the SFP ID(s) and optionally Metadata to the UPF-SFC via
N4 interface in a FAR. The targeted traffic flows description is provided in a
PDR.
\- The UPF-SFC steers the targeted traffic flows towards the SFP indicated by
the received SFP ID. Additionally it may perform SFC encapsulation as defined
in RFC 8300 [11] and include the received Metadata in the SFC encapsulation
header.
NOTE 2: It is also possible to rely on the existing traffic steering
information to identify a specific SFP, rather than introducing the new SFP ID
parameter. For instance, there can be several pre-defined N6 tunnels between
the UPF-PSA and the UPF-SFC, each N6 tunnels corresponding to a distinct SFC
path. However, this would create an undesired dependency between the
configuration of N6 tunnels and the configuration of SFPs. For instance, every
time an SFP is added or removed, this would imply reconfiguration of the N6
tunnels. Moreover, the use of preconfigured N6 tunnels may have scalability
issues because the SMF would need to select a specially configured UPF-PSA
upon PDU Session establishment, even if there is no SFC-related request from a
3^rd^ party during the lifetime of the PDU Session. In contrast, keeping SFP
ID as a distinct parameter allows for changes in the SFP configuration without
any impact on the 5GC user plane configuration. It also allows for selecting a
generic UPF-PSA during PDU Session establishment with no SFC-related pre-
configuration. Note also that N4 is needed to convey the Metadata information
to the UPF-SFC.
\- The UPF-SFC can support data usage reporting on per SFP basis to the SMF.
The SMF can provision the URR in UPF-SFC and the UPF-SFC can send the report
back to SMF when the threshold or trigger condition is met as described in
clause 5.2.2 of TS 29.244 [9].
### 6.4.2 Procedures
Figure 6.4.2-1 illustrates the enhancements to the procedure for processing AF
requests to influence traffic routing for PDU Sessions not identified by a UE
address, as described in clause 4.3.6.2 of TS 23.502 [3]. This procedure is
used when targeting a group of UE(s), or any UE accessing a combination of DNN
and S-NSSAI, or targeting individual UE by a GPSI. The SFP ID and Metadata
provided as part of this procedure are applied upon PDU Session establishment,
but can also result in modification of already established PDU Sessions that
are impacted by the AF request.
Figure 6.4.2-1: Procedure for AF influenced traffic routing for SFC in 5GC for
PDU Sessions not identified by a UE address
1\. The AF creates AF request that includes an SFP ID and, optionally,
Metadata corresponding to that SFP ID, in addition to existing parameters
(e.g. Traffic descriptor, Application Identifier, to the NEF for requesting
traffic routing to a SFP identified by the SFC ID. The Metadata is optional
and available only when needed for configuring required application related
information at UPF-SFC.
2\. The AF sends the AF request via Nnef_TrafficInfluence_Create/Update/Delete
message to NEF.
3a. The NEF requests to store/update/remove information of PFD(s), SFP ID and
Metadata based on Application ID/Traffic descriptor.
3b. The NEF returns Nnef_TrafficInfluence_Create/Update/Delete response
message to AF.
4\. The PCF(s) that have subscribed to modifications of AF requests (Data Set
= Application Data; Data Subset = AF traffic influence request information,
Data Key = S-NSSAI and DNN and/or Internal Group Identifier or SUPI)
receive(s) a Nudr_DM_Notify notification of data change from the UDR including
the SFP ID and the Metadata.
5\. The PCF checks if the indicated SFP ID corresponds to an authorized SFC
policy for the AF. If the check is successful, the PCF notifies SMF via
Npcf_SMPolicyControl_UpdateNotify message including PCC rules. The PCC rules
contain SFP ID and Metadata (if available), in addition to existing
parameters, such as PFD(s)
6a. The SMF selects UPF-SFC taking into account specific optional UPF
capabilities as described in clause 6.3.3 of TS 23.501 [2] and the SFP ID. In
this case the specific capabilities refer to the SFC-related capability and
configuration in the UPF.
6b. In case there is no established tunnel between UPF-PSA and UPF-SFC for
this UE, the SMF requests allocation of two tunnel endpoints at the UPF-PSA
(one tunnel per traffic direction).
6c. In case there is no established tunnel between UPF-PSA and UPF-SFC for
this UE, the SMF requests allocation of two tunnel endpoints at the UPF-SFC
(one tunnel per traffic direction).
6d. Based on the PCC rules received from the PCF, the SMF configures the UPF-
PSA via N4 message including PDR and FAR as described in Table 6.4.2-1.
Table 6.4.2-1: PDR and FAR configuration in UPF-PSA
**UPLINK traffic**
* * *
IN interface OUT interface PDR FAR N3/N9 N6s Local F-TEID (N3/N9), UL SDF
Remote F-TEID (N6s) for UL traffic **DOWNLINK traffic**  
IN interface OUT interface PDR FAR N6 N6s DL SDF Remote F-TEID (N6s) for DL
traffic N6s N3/N9 Local F-TEID (N6s) for DL traffic, DL SDF Remote F-TEID
(N3/N9) NOTE: In this table \"downlink\" refers to the global traffic
direction. In reference to N6s, it is noted that the \"downlink\" traffic is
carried in both directions.
6e. Based on the PCC rules received from the PCF, the SMF configures the UPF-
SFC with uplink and downlink PDR and FAR via N4message as described in Table
6.4.2-2.
Table 6.4.2-2: PDR and FAR configuration in UPF-SFC
**UPLINK traffic**
* * *
IN interface OUT interface PDR FAR N6s SFC Local F-TEID (N6s) for UL traffic,
UL SDF SFP ID (uplink), Metadata (uplink) **DOWNLINK traffic**  
IN interface OUT interface PDR FAR N6s SFC Local F-TEID (N6s) for DL traffic,
DL SDF SFP ID (downlink), Metadata (uplink) SFC N6s SFP ID (downlink), DL SDF
Remote F-TEID (N6s) for DL traffic NOTE: In reference to N6s, it is noted that
the DOWNLINK traffic is carried in both directions.
Figure 6.4.2-2 illustrates the enhancements to the procedure for processing AF
requests to influence traffic routing when targeting a specific UE address, as
described in clause 4.3.6.4 of TS 23.502 [3]. The SFP ID and Metadata provided
as part of this procedure are applied any time after PDU Session
establishment.
Figure 6.4.2-2: Procedure for AF influenced traffic routing for SFC in 5GC
when targeting an individual UE address
Depending on the AF deployment (see clause 6.2.10 of TS 23.501 [2]), the AF
may send the AF request to PCF directly, in which case step 1 is skipped, or
via the NEF.
4\. If step 1 was performed, NEF invokes the Npcf_PolicyAuthorization service
to the PCF to transfer the AF request. If an AF sends the AF request directly
to the PCF, AF invokes Npcf_PolicyAuthorization service and the PCF responds
to the AF. The Npcf_PolicyAuthorization service request includes the SFP ID
and (optionally) the Metadata, in addition to existing parameters e.g. UE
address and targeted traffic flows description.
5\. The PCF authorizes the AF request and performs the steps 5, 6a and 6b
described in Figure 6.4.1-1.
### 6.4.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
NEF:
\- NEF forwards the SFC-specific parameters from the AF to the PCF.
PCF:
\- PCF checks if the indicated SFP ID and Metadata corresponds to an
authorized SFC policy for the AF.
\- Includes SFP ID and Metadata (if available).
UDR:
\- The UDR stores the SFP ID and Metadata based on Application ID/Traffic
descriptor.
SMF:
\- The SMF configures the UPF-SFC with PDR and FAR via N4 message. The FAR
includes the SFP ID and the Metadata (if available).
UPF-SFC:
\- The UPF with SFC capability deploys an SFC functionality (i.e. SFC service
classification, SFP selection, SFC encapsulation etc.) with several SFPs
corresponding to pre-defined SFC polices.
## 6.5 Solution #5: UPF enhancement with SFC capability
### 6.5.1 Description
In this study, the UPF with SFC capabilities need to be enabled to offer
flexible SFC configuration for a PDU session that requires different SFC
processing for applications. This solution will resolve key issue 1 in order
to provide UPF support with SFC capabilities.
5GS performs classification and SFC encapsulation used by the SFC-aware
functions as a traffic classifier (Figure 6.5.1-1). The SFC encapsulation
offers, at a minimum, Service Function Path (SFP) identification as defined in
IETF RFC 7665 [8], such that SFC-aware functions can use it. The AF supplies
predefined SFC ID and optional metadata allowing the 5GS to transport the
classified packets along the service path via SFC encapsulation. If the AF
does not provide SFC ID, predefined SFC ID referenced by TSP ID is used for
SFC encapsulation. This solution explains how SFC capabilities in the 5GS may
be made available, identified, and controlled.
Figure 6.5.1-1: 5GS as a traffic classifier
When the AF provides predefined SFC ID, 5GS can employ AF influenced traffic
routing to detect application traffic for classification. The information
requested by the AF is shown in Table 6.5.1-1. The data can also be used to
detect traffic flows in order to perform SFC processing. The SFC
encapsulation, however, requires SFC ID and optional metadata. As a result, in
the AF influenced traffic routing, SFC ID and optional metadata are newly
defined in AF requests. Metadata includes data plane context information which
is carried in the SFC encapsulation. In this solution, metadata is an optional
addition to the SFC ID, as indicated in Table 6.5.1-1.
Table 6.5.1-1: AF request in AF influenced traffic routing
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+ | Information | Applicable for | Applicable for | Category | | Name | PCF or NEF | NEF only | | +=================+=================+=================+===========+ | Traffic | Defines the | The target | Mandatory | | Description | target traffic | traffic can be | | | | to be | represented by | | | | influenced, | AF-Serv | | | | represented by | ice-Identifier, | | | | the combination | instead of | | | | of DNN and | combination of | | | | optionally | DNN and | | | | S-NSSAI, and | optionally | | | | application | S-NSSAI. | | | | identifier or | | | | | traffic | | | | | filtering | | | | | information. | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+ | Target UE | Indicates the | GPSI can be | Mandatory | | Identifier(s) | UE(s) that the | applied to | | | | request is | identify the | | | | targeting, i.e. | individual UE, | | | | an individual | or External | | | | UE, a group of | Group | | | | UE represented | Identifier can | | | | by Internal | be applied to | | | | Group | identify a | | | | Identifier | group of UE. | | | | (NOTE 3), or | | | | | any UE | | | | | accessing the | | | | | combination of | | | | | DNN, S-NSSAI | | | | | and DNAI(s). | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+ | AF transaction | The AF | N/A | Mandatory | | identifier | transaction | | | | | identifier | | | | | refers to the | | | | | AF request. | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+ | N6 Traffic | Routing profile | N/A | Optional | | Routing | ID and/or N6 | | | | requirements | traffic routing | | (NOTE 2) | | | information | | | | | corresponding | | | | | to each DNAI | | | | | and an optional | | | | | indication of | | | | | traffic | | | | | correlation. | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+ | SFC ID | Indicates SFC | N/A | Optional | | | ID and | | | | | optionally | | | | | metadata for | | | | | the SFC | | | | | encapsulation. | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+
According to the PCC rule, traffic steering can be handled in one of the
following ways in the solution:
\- N6-LAN traffic steering (Figure 6.5.2-1).
\- AF influenced traffic steering (Figure 6.5.2-2).
The PCF decides which traffic steering can be operated in the 5GS between
N6-LAN traffic steering and AF influenced traffic steering. Therefore, SFC ID
can be decided by the PCF when the AF requests them via the NEF, or they can
be pre-configured statically in the PCF. According to the predefined SFC
policy, which is agreed upon by PLMN and a third party and specified in a SLA,
the 5GS may employ combined N6-LAN traffic steering for downlink traffic and
AF influenced traffic steering for uplink traffic.
With the addition of SFC ID and optional metadata for the SFC encapsulation in
the UPF, the PCC rule can be used to detect and steer traffic flows. SFC ID
and metadata are now defined in the PCC rule and the Forwarding Action Rule
(FAR), as shown in Tables 6.5.1-2 and 6.5.1-3. The traffic steering policies
for all SFCs supported by the DNN/S-NSSAI/DNAI should be set in the UPF with
SFC capability, which serves as the PSA for the DNN/S-NSSAI/DNAI. It is
believed that the same set of traffic steering policies are configured on the
5GS within the same DNN/S-NSSAI/DNAI. As a result, the UPF can be chosen using
DNN/S-NSSAI/DNAI. With the inclusion of SFC ID, the existing traffic steering
mechanism is reused. Predefined SFC policy may indicate SFC header (e.g.
network service header (NSH)) and transport protocol (e.g. VXLAN, GRE, MPLS,
IP-in-IP) for the traffic flow. SFC ID may be used as SFP ID for the traffic
flow to provide SFC encapsulation for the traffic flow. Alternatively, UPF may
map SFC ID to one of the SFP ID(s) in the predefined SFC policy.
Table 6.5.1-2: The elements related to traffic steering in the PCC rule
information in 5GC
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | Information | Description | Category | PCF permitted | | name | | | to modify for a | | | | | dynamic PCC | | | | | rule in the SMF | +=================+=================+===========+=================+ | Rule identifier | Uniquely | Mandatory | No | | | identifies the | | | | | PCC rule, | | | | | within a PDU | | | | | Session. | | | | | | | | | | It is used | | | | | between PCF and | | | | | SMF for | | | | | referencing PCC | | | | | rules. | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **N6-LAN | *This part | | | | Traffic | describes | | | | Steering | information | | | | Enforcement | required for | | | | Control** | N6-LAN Traffic | | | | | Steering._| | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | Traffic | Reference to a | | Yes | | steering policy | pre-configured | | | | identifier(s) | traffic | | | | | steering policy | | | | | at the SMF. | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | SFC ID | Describes SFC | | Yes | | | Identification | | | | | and optionally | | | | | metadata for | | | | | the SFC | | | | | encapsulation. | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ |__AF influenced |_ This part | | | | Traffic | describes | | | | Steering | information | | | | Enforcement | required for AF | | | | Control*_| influenced | | | | | Traffic | | | | | Steering._ | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | Data Network | Identifier(s) | | Yes | | Access | of the target | | | | Identifier | Data Network | | | | | Access (DNAI). | | | | | It is defined | | | | | in clause 5.6.7 | | | | | of | | | | | T | | | | | S 23.501 [2]. | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | Per DNAI: | Reference to a | | Yes | | Traffic | pre-configured | | | | steering policy | traffic | | | | identifier | steering policy | | | | | at the SMF. | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | Per DNAI: N6 | Describes the | | Yes | | traffic routing | information | | | | information | necessary for | | | | | traffic | | | | | steering to the | | | | | DNAI. It is | | | | | described in | | | | | clause 5.6.7 of | | | | | T | | | | | S 23.501 [2]. | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | Per DNAI: SFC | Describes SFC | | Yes | | ID | Identification | | | | | and optionally | | | | | metadata for | | | | | the SFC | | | | | encapsulation. | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
Table 6.5.1-3: Forwarding Action Rule related to traffic steering
+-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Attribute | Description | Comment | +===================+=======================+=======================+ | N4 Session ID | Identifies the N4 | | | | session associated to | | | | this FAR. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Rule ID | Unique identifier to | | | | identify this | | | | information. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Forwarding policy | Reference to a | Contains one of the | | | preconfigured traffic | following policies | | | steering policy or | identified by a TSP | | | http redirection | ID: | | | (NOTE 4). | | | | | - an N6-LAN steering | | | | policy to steer the | | | | subscriber\'s traffic | | | | to the appropriate N6 | | | | service functions | | | | deployed by the | | | | operator, or | | | | | | | | - a local N6 | | | | steering policy to | | | | enable traffic | | | | steering in the local | | | | access to the DN | | | | according to the | | | | routing information | | | | provided by an AF as | | | | described in | | | | clause 5.6.7, or | | | | | | | | - a Redirect | | | | Destination and | | | | values for the | | | | forwarding behaviour | | | | (always, after | | | | measurement report | | | | (for termination | | | | action | | | | \"redirect\")). | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | SFC ID | Indicates SFC | | | | Identification and | | | | optionally metadata | | | | for the SFC | | | | encapsulation. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
### 6.5.2 Procedures
Traffic steering can be operated in either N6-LAN traffic steering or AF
influenced traffic steering, according to the PCC rule.
#### 6.5.2.1 N6-LAN traffic steering with SFC capabilities
The traffic steering policy identifier(s) are used with N6-LAN traffic
steering to direct traffic to the relevant N6 service functions deployed by
the operator. Figure 6.5.2-1 depicts the procedure of N6-LAN traffic steering
with SFC capabilities.
Figure 6.5.2-1: The procedure of N6-LAN traffic steering with SFC capabilities
1\. The PCF provides N6-LAN traffic steering policy with additional SFC ID in
the PCC rule to the SMF during SM Policy Association Establishment, SMF
initiated SM Policy Association Modification, or PCF initiated SM Policy
Association Modification procedure as defined in clauses 4.16.4 and 4.16.5 of
TS 23.502 [3].
2\. The SMF is triggered to either provision or remove the traffic steering
policy when the PCC rule with SFC ID is provided from the PCF.
3\. The SMF sends N4 Session Establishment/Modification/Release request to the
UPF in order for the traffic steering policy with SFC capabilities to be
provisioned or removed. Then, the UPF acknowledges with N4 Session
Establishment/Modification/Release response message.
#### 6.5.2.2 AF influenced traffic steering with SFC capabilities
Figure 6.5.2-2 depicts AF influenced traffic steering with SFC capabilities.
The procedure for SFC capabilities is summarized here.
Figure 6.5.2-2: The procedure of AF influenced traffic steering with SFC
capabilities
The procedure of Processing AF requests to influence traffic routing for
Sessions not identified by an UE address in clause 4.3.6.2-1 of TS 23.502 [3]
is performed with the following modifications and clarifications:
1\. To create a new request, the AF invokes a Nnef_TrafficInfluence_Create
service operation. The content of this service operation (AF request) is
defined in clause 5.2.6.7 of TS 23.502 [3] with additional SFC ID.
2\. SFC ID is delivered in AF request from the AF to the NEF.
3\. The NEF stores the AF request information in the UDR including SFC ID.
5\. For PDU Sessions impacted by the AF request, the PCF updates the SMF with
corresponding new policy information including SFC ID.
6\. When the updated policy information about the PDU Session is received from
the PCF, the SMF may take appropriate actions to reconfigure the User plane of
the PDU Session includingSFC ID, as shown in Table 6.5.1-3.
### 6.5.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
AF:
\- Needs to support SFC ID for requesting AF influenced traffic routing.
NEF:
\- Needs to support SFC ID in order to deliver them from the AF to the PCF.
\- Needs to store SFC ID in the UDR.
PCF:
\- Needs to support SFC ID in the PCC rule, either for N6-LAN traffic steering
or for AF influenced traffic steering.
SMF:
\- Needs to use the N4 interface to provision/remove SFC ID contained in FAR.
UPF:
\- Needs to support SFC encapsulation with several SFPs corresponding to
predefined SFC polices.
## 6.6 Solution #6: Service Function Chaining Configuration
### 6.6.1 Description
This solution aims to address KI#2 (i.e. \"How to enable support for AF to
request predefined SFC/SFP(s) for traffic flow(s) related with target UE
(s)\").
To address how to enable support for AF to request predefined SFC/SFP(s) for
traffic flow(s) related with target UE (s) i.e. how to enable support for AF
to configure pre-defined SFC policy for target UE(s) to 5GS, this solution
follows the principles below:
\- From the SLA, AF already knows the granularities of SFC classification
rules and predefined SFC information (SFC IDs)
\- AF interacts with NEF to request to apply predefined SFCs for target UE(s)
by using new service operations (i.e. Nnef_SFC_ConfigCreate service operation
with SFC Configuration Parameter) or extended AF traffic influence service
operations (i.e. Nnef_TrafficInfluence_Create service operation with SFC
Configuration Parameter).
\- The service operations\' request message may contain at least the SFC
Configuration Parameter. The following table shows the SFC Configuration
Parameter:
Table 6.6.1-1: SFC Configuration Parameter
SFC Configuration Parameter Description
* * *
UE identities Target UE(s) identifier(es) (e.g. IP addresses) SFC ID Indicates
the target SFC ID that will be applied for the target UE(s) Classification
rule Indicates classification rule for detecting the flows that will be
treated by target SFC ID. This parameter is optional parameter and it is used
when the AF wants to use the certain classification rules that are not
included in the SLA results.
\- The granularity classification rule in Table 6.6.1-1 should be followed by
\"Traffic Description\" that represents the target traffic by the combination
of DNN and optionally S-NSSAI, and application identifier or traffic filtering
information.
### 6.6.2 Procedures
Figure 6.6.2-1 outlines the procedure for configuring SFC policy for target
UE(s).
Figure 6.6.2-2: Procedure for configuring SFC policy for target UE(s)
1\. AF requests a SFC policy for the target UE(s) to NEF by invoking
Nnef_SFC_ConfigCreate service operation or enhanced
Nnef_TrafficInfluence_Create service operation with SFC Configuration
Parameter.
For instance, if AF wants to use the predefined SFC 1 (e.g. Firewall  DPI)
for the traffic from UE1 (IP address: y.y.y.z) to the application server (IP
address: X.X.X.2, port number: 80), AF sends the request message with below
SFC Configuration Parameter.
[UE identities: \"y.y.y.z\", [SFC ID: \"SFC 1\", [Classification rules:
[Classification rule type: \"IP Packet Filter Set\", [Source IP address:
\"y.y.y.z\", Destination IP address: \"x.x.x.2\", Source Port: \"any\",
Destination Port: \"80\"]]]].
2\. NEF interacts with PCF to configure SFC policy for target UE(s).
3\. NEF responds with the Nnef_SFC_ConfigCreate or
Nnef_TrafficInfluence_Create response.
### 6.6.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
AF:
\- Needs to support SFC Configuration Parameter for requesting SFC policy.
NEF:
\- Needs to support SFC Configuration Parameter in order to configure SFC
policy in the PCF.
## 6.7 Solution #7: Enhancing Application Function influence on traffic
routing to an N6-LAN based on pre-defined SFC policies
### 6.7.1 Description
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the solution principles and
architecture assumptions for corresponding key issue(s) which should be
explicitly stated. (Sub) clause(s) may be added to capture details.
The present solution addresses the following:
\- How an AF is aware of the available pre-defined SFC policies in a 3GPP
network.
\- How an AF influences traffic steering for application traffic to an N6-LAN.
The solution supports both scenarios where network operator owns/deploys SFCs
that are hosted in the 5GC network (Scenario 1) and SFCs hosted by 3rd party
network.
Two options are proposed:
**Option 1: AF is aware via SLA agreements the SFC policy identifier(s) that
corresponds to a specific Service Function Chaining.**
This option assumes that AF is aware of the SFC Policy identifier(s)
corresponding to a service function chain based on SLA agreements.
**Option 2: AF requesting an SFC policy based on the available /pre-configured
Service Function Chain policies supported by the 5GS network.**
The AF then requests from the 3GPP network if there are available/pre-
configured an SFC policies based on the Service Functions required, via a new
SBI interface. The AF request to the 3GPP network (via NEF) can include the
following information:
\- An ASP identifier.
\- Optionally a UE identifier (or Group identifier).
\- A list of one or more SF service identifier. The SF identifier is a scalar
value that identifies a particular service of the Service Function, for
example, Firewall, Video Transcoding etc. The SF Service Identifiers are
negotiated between the 3rd party AF and network operator based on SLA
agreements.
The 3GPP network authorises the AF request and provides the SFC policies to
the AF where each SFC policy is identified by a specific SFC policy
identifier.
When the AF requires to enable SFC policies the AF can re-use the
Nnef_TrafficInfluence SBI including in the request the target UEs, service
data flow information of the traffic to be routed an SFC policy identifier. To
address scenario 2 the AF additionally includes:
\- DNAI information allowing the SMF to select a UPF capable to interface with
a 3rd party SFC.
\- Metadata information allowing a UPF to identify how to tag user plane
traffic sent to an external 3rd party SFC.
### 6.7.2 Procedures
Editor\'s note: This clause describes high-level procedures and information
flows for the solution.
#### 6.7.2.1 AF requesting SFC policies in a 3GPP network
The procedure for requesting N6-LAN services is as follows:
Figure 6.7.2.1-2: AF requesting pre-defined SFC policies
The procedure is as follows:
0\. OPTION 1: The AF is aware of the available SFCs and corresponding SFC
policy identifier(s) in a network. This can be based on SLA agreements.
OPTION 2: AF requesting SFC policies based on pre-defined SF services
available either in the 5GC or hosted by a 3rd party.
1\. The AF is triggered to discover an SFC policy. For example, enable voice
transcoding.
2\. The AF invokes an Nnef_SFC_Policy_Get_Request including an identifier of
the ASP, optionally external identifiers (GPSI) and a list of SF service
ID(s).
3\. The NEF forwards the request to the PCF invoking an Npcf_SFC_Policy_Create
request.
4\. The PCF may check in the UDR if there are available SFC policies for the
ASP.
5\. The PCF makes a policy decision and determines the SFC policies for the
ASP.If there in no SFC policy available for the requested service the PCF
rejects the request.
6\. The PCF includes the SFC policy according to the AF request identified by
an SFC policy identifier.
7\. The NEF forwards the response to the AF.
Editor\'s note: Whether Option 1 or Option 2 will be used for configuration of
SFC policies when the SFC is hosted by the 5GC operator is to be determined at
conclusions phase.
#### 6.7.2.2 AF influence on traffic routing by including pre-defined SFC
policies
When the AF is triggered to enable an N6-LAN service the AF invokes an
Nnef_TrafficInfluence_Create that includes the UE ID or Group ID of the
affected UEs and N6-LAN steering information.
The N6-LAN steering information includes:
\- Application ID or Traffic Filters of the affected application.
\- SFC policy identifier according to the N6-LAN service requested by the AF
as described in Figure 6.7.2.1-1.
\- Applicable S-NSSAI/DNN information.
If S-NSSAI/DNN is included the policy is applicable for all UEs that have
established a PDU session at this DNN and/or S-NSSAI.
The NEF determines the internal identifier of the UE(s) (i.e. SUPI) and update
the subscription in the UDR by invoking an Nnef_DM_Update request service
operation. The NEF updates the subscription data in the UDR.
The UDR notifies the PCF of the updated subscription information. The PCF
determines the affected UEs, PDU sessions and application traffic and
determines new or updated PCC rules where the PCC rule includes traffic
descriptors of the traffic that needs to be routed to the operator\'s N6-LAN
network and corresponding traffic steering policy identifier of the associated
SFC policy (identified by the SFC policy identifier). The PCF then provides
updated PCC rules to the SMF. The SMF configures the UPF with the traffic
steering policy identifier corresponding to the SFC policy identifier that
allows the UPF to route application traffic to the N6-LAN network.
The detailed procedure is illustrated below:
Figure 6.7.2.2-1: AF requesting to enable an N6-LAN service for a UE
1\. The AF is triggered to enable an SFC policy for a UE or group of UEs.
2\. The AF invokes an Nnef_TrafficInfluence Create including in the request
the external identifier of the UE (or Group of UEs) and in a container SFC
steering information that includes, an application id or traffic filters of
the application and an SFC policy identifier. The AF may include a DNAI and
metadata information for the case where SFC are owned by a 3rd party.
3\. The NEF determines the SUPI of the UE by interfacing with the UDM. The NEF
may also determine if the ASP is authorized to use the SFC policy by
interfacing with the UDR.
4\. The NEF updates the subscription data in the UDR by invoking an
Nudr_DM_Update service operation including SFC steering information as a data
subset under the Application Data Set and adding the SUPI of the affected UEs
as a Data Key.
5\. The UDR notifies the PCFs that have subscribed to be notified of the
changes in the subscription profile
6\. The UDR invokes an Nudr_DM_Notify service operation including the updated
subscription information.
7\. The PCF determines the affected UEs, traffic and PDU sessions where the
SFC policy needs to be included/updated.
8\. The PCF provides updated PCC rules including the corresponding pre-defined
traffic steering policy identifier for N6-LAN to the SMF. If metadata
information is provided in step 2 the PCF forwards the information to the SMF.
9\. The SMF selects a UPF based on existing mechanisms and configures the UPF
according to the PCC rules. The SMF sends over N4 a Forward Action Rule
request including in the request traffic filters and the traffic steering
policy identifier. The SMF includes the metadata if provided by the PCF in
step 8.
NOTE: SMF selects a UPF based on DNAI if provided by the AF in step 2.
10\. The UPF and routes traffic corresponding to the traffic filters to
N6-LAN. If metadata information is provided by the SMF, the UPF classifies the
packet, e.g. by adding VxLAN information according to the metadata
information, before routing the packet to the SFC function.
### 6.7.3 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
Editor\'s note: This clause captures impacts on existing 3GPP nodes and
functional elements.
\- New SBI supporting an AF to discover the available SFC policies.
\- Enhancing Nnef_TrafficInfluence SBI supporting steering of traffic to
N6-LAN.
\- If metadata is supported:
AF including metadata information in traffic influence request;
\- NEF, PCF, SMF forwarding metadata information to UPF;
\- UPF tagging the packet according to metadata information before routing the
packet to the N6-LAN network.
## 6.8 Solution #8: AF request predefined SFC for traffic flow(s) related with
target UE(s)
### 6.8.1 Description
The AF-influenced traffic steering enforcement control information is used to
influence SMF routeing decisions for an identified traffic of PDU Session. It
steers the user traffic to a local access to a Data Network (identified by a
DNAI) per AF request. The AF-influenced traffic steering enforcement control
information can be derived by the PCF based on the N6 Traffic Routing
requirements provided by the AF. Until Rel-17 this is supported in non-roaming
scenarios and to LBO deployments only.
The N6-LAN traffic steering enforcement control steer the identified traffic
to appropriate operator 3rd party service functions in the N6-LAN. When the
PCF generate the PCC rule for the SMF, the N6-LAN traffic steering enforcement
control information is generated based on the operator\'s policy. This is
supported in non-roaming and home-routed scenarios only. However that
information is not generated or derived based on AF request.
The AF-influenced traffic steering enforcement control is only applied to the
uplink traffic in the existing specification. The N6-LAN traffic steering
enforcement control can be applied to the downlink traffic, uplink traffic or
both. The N6-LAN Traffic steering policy identifiers can be different for
uplink and downlink direction.
Table 6.3.1 of TS 23.503 [4] indicates that either N6-LAN Traffic Steering
Enforcement Control or AF influenced Traffic Steering Enforcement Control can
be included within a PCC rule. It means that traffic steering and SFC can\'t
be applied to the same application traffic simultaneously.
From above analysis, it can be concluded that the N6-LAN traffic steering
control (i.e. SFC policy) is different from the AF-influenced traffic steering
enforcement control (i.e. traffic steering policy).
It is proposed that SFC policy and traffic steering policy is separated. An
Application Function may send a request to influence SFC enforcement for the
application traffic. In the request, the AF shall include the N6-LAN traffic
steering control information, which includes target UE Identifier(s), DNN,
S-NSSAI, SFC identifier (uplink and/or downlink), to the 5GC based on the SLA
between the operator and the 3rd party. The PCF authorizes the N6-LAN traffic
steering control information received from AF based on the SFC identifier
(uplink and/or downlink) and operator\'s policy when generating the PCC rule.
And then the N6-LAN traffic steering enforcement control information
provisioning and enforcement defined in clauses 6.1.3.14 and 6.2.2.6 of TS
23.503 [4] can be applied, i.e. installing the related rule at UPF.
Figure 6.8.1-1: Architecture and traffic steering control flow
NOTE 1: based on the local configuration, the UPF can differentiate the packet
coming from N6-LAN or from N6 interface as described in clause 5.4.8 of TS
29.244 [9]
It is possible that N6-LAN traffic steering control and AF-influenced traffic
steering control are both applied to the same application traffic
simultaneously.
\- If the N6-LAN traffic steering enforcement control in downlink is applied
when the AF-influenced traffic steering enforcement control is applied, the
PCF include N6-LAN traffic steering policy identifier in downlink, and AF-
influenced traffic steering policy identifier or N6 traffic routing
information per DNAI within a PCC rule.
\- If the N6-LAN traffic steering enforcement control in uplink is applied
simultaneous as the AF-influenced traffic steering enforcement control is
applied, the PCF shall include N6-LAN traffic steering policy identifier in
uplink and AF-influenced traffic steering policy identifier or N6 traffic
routing information per DNAI within a PCC rule.
Similar with the AF influenced traffic steering control defined in clause
4.3.6.1 of TS 23.503 [4], the following cases can be distinguished:
\- AF requests targeting an individual UE by a UE address; these requests are
routed (by the AF or by the NEF) to an individual PCF using the BSF. This is
described in clause 6.8.2.1.
\- AF requests targeting a group of UE(s), or any UE accessing a combination
of DNN and S-NSSAI, or targeting individual UE by a GPSI. This is defined in
clause 6.8.2.2.
Same general handing as described in clause 4.3.6.1 of TS 23.502 [3] are
executed, e.g. how the NEF map the AF request to the DNN, S-NSSAI.
NOTE 2: The solution assumes that the 5GC and the AF have agreed via SLA on
the mapping between a SFC identifier and for each DNAI/ N6 interface: the
corresponding SFP, the metadata that the UPF should send to the SFP once it
has done its SFC related classification.
### 6.8.2 Procedures
#### 6.8.2.1 Handling an AF request targeting an individual UE address
Figure 6.8.2.1-1: Handling an AF request targeting an individual UE address
1\. Step 1 to step 5 of figure 4.3.6.4 of TS 23.502 [3] are performed with
following modifications and exceptions:
\- In step 1, the AF provides the N6-LAN traffic steering control information
in the request. If the AF-influenced traffic steering control for the same
application traffic is required simultaneously, the AF-influenced traffic
steering control are provided additionally in the request.
\- In step 4, the AF or the NEF provides the N6-LAN traffic steering control
information in the request. If the AF-influenced traffic steering control for
the same application traffic is required simultaneously, the AF-influenced
traffic steering control are provided additionally in the request.
In both cases the N6-LAN traffic steering control information includes SFC
identifier (uplink and/or downlink).
\- In step 5, the PCF authorizes the N6-LAN traffic steering enforcement
control information based on the received the N6-LAN traffic steering control
information and the operator\'s policy. The N6-LAN traffic steering
enforcement control information includes the appropriate N6-LAN Traffic
steering policy identifier(s) (uplink and/or downlink), which is derived from
the AF provided SFC identifier (uplink and/or downlink). If both the N6-LAN
traffic steering control information and AF-influenced traffic steering
control information are provided, the PCF authorizes the N6-LAN traffic
steering enforcement control information and AF-influenced Traffic Steering
Enforcement Control information separately.
2\. Step 1 to Step 4 of Figure 6.8.2.3-1 is performed.
#### 6.8.2.2 Handling an AF request not identified by an UE address
Figure 6.8.2.2-1: Handling an AF request not identified by an UE address
1\. Step 1 to step 5 of Figure 4.3.6.2 of TS 23.502 [3] are performed with
following modifications and exceptions:
\- In step 1, the AF provides the N6-LAN traffic steering control information
in the request, which includes SFC identifier (uplink and/or downlink). If the
AF-influenced traffic steering control for the same application traffic is
required simultaneously, the AF-influenced traffic steering control
information are provided additionally in the request.
NOTE: The AF that issues the AF-influenced traffic steering control
information may be different from the AF that issues N6-LAN traffic steering
control information. When the PCF receives the kind of information via N5 or
via UDR notifications, it is up to the PCF to create PCC results that result
from the aggregation of both information.
\- In step 3, the NEF stores the AF request information in the UDR (Data Set =
Application Data; Data Subset = N6-LAN traffic steering control information,
Data Key = AF Transaction Internal ID, S-NSSAI and DNN and/or Internal Group
Identifier or SUPI).
\- In step 4, the PCF(s) that have subscribed to modifications of AF requests
(Data Set = Application Data; Data Subset = N6-LAN traffic steering request
information, Data Key = S-NSSAI and DNN and/or Internal Group Identifier or
SUPI) receive(s) a Nudr_DM_Notify notification of data change from the UDR.
\- In step 5, the PCF authorizes the N6-LAN traffic steering enforcement
Control information based on the received N6-LAN traffic steering control
information and the operator\'s policy. The N6-LAN traffic steering
enforcement control information includes the appropriate N6-LAN Traffic
steering policy identifier(s) (uplink and/or downlink), which is derived from
the AF provided SFC identifier (uplink and/or downlink).
2\. Step 1 to Step 4 of Figure 6.8.2.3-1 is performed.
#### 6.8.2.3 Traffic steering enforcement control
Figure 6.8.2.3-1: Traffic steering enforcement control
1\. The PCC rule which include the N6-LAN traffic steering enforcement control
information is installed at the SMF as described in clause 6.8.2.1 or clause
6.8.2.2.
2\. If both the N6-LAN traffic steering enforcement control information and
AF-influenced traffic steering enforcement control information are provided by
the same AF, the SMF may inserts/reselect an I-UPF/L-PSA according to current
procedure.
NOTE 1: It is assumed that 5GC configuration is homogeneous for providing the
same set of traffic steering policies within same DNAI/ DNN/ S-NSSAI. SMF can
select then, UPF based on DNA/DNN/ S-NSSAI.
3\. The SMF generates the N4 rule based on the received PCC rule as follows:
\- if only N6-LAN traffic steering enforcement control is enforced, besides
the PDR SMF derives the forwarding policy identifier (uplink and/or downlink)
within the FAR based on the authorized the N6-LAN traffic steering enforcement
control information.
\- if only AF-influenced traffic steering enforcement control is enforced,
besides the PDR SMF derives the forwarding policy within the FAR based on the
authorized the AF-influenced traffic steering enforcement control information.
\- if both N6-LAN traffic steering enforcement control and AF-influenced
traffic steering enforcement control are enforced:
\- If the N6-LAN traffic steering enforcement control in downlink is applied
when the AF-influenced traffic steering enforcement control is applied, the
SMF generates two PDR and FAR pairs. The first PDR and FAR pair is associated
the downlink N6-LAN traffic steering policy handing. The second PDR and FAR is
associated with the uplink AF influenced traffic steering policy handling.
\- If the N6-LAN traffic steering enforcement control in uplink is applied
when the AF-influenced traffic steering enforcement control is applied, the
SMF generates two PDR and FAR pairs. The first PDR and FAR pair is associated
the N6-LAN traffic steering policy handing. The second PDR and FAR is
associated with the AF influenced traffic steering policy handling for traffic
after N6-LAN traffic steering handling.
NOTE 2: The UPF enforce the first PDR and FAR pair to steer the uplink traffic
to the N6-LAN and then enforce the second PDR and FAR pair to steering the
uplink traffic, which has been processed by the SF(s) and routed back to the
UPF, to the local network.
The SMF provisions the N4 rule to the UPF (PSA) by initiating the N4 session
establishment or modification.
4\. Per the received forwarding policy, when the UPF (PSA) detects the related
traffic, the UPF steers the corresponding traffic to the service function(s)
deployed in the N6-LAN if applicable, and further steer the traffic to the
local data network if applicable. How to steering the traffic is out of 3GPP
scope.
### 6.8.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The solution has impacts in the following entities:
AF:
\- Needs to support to include the N6-LAN traffic steering control request
information in the request.
NEF:
\- Needs to support to transfer the N6-LAN traffic steering control request
information.
UDR:
\- Needs to support to store the N6-LAN traffic steering control request
information.
PCF:
\- Needs to support to authorize the N6-LAN traffic steering enforcement
control information based on the received the N6-LAN traffic steering control
information.
SMF:
\- Needs to support to derive two PDR and FAR pairs. The first PDR and FAR
pair is associated the N6-LAN traffic steering policy handing. The second PDR
and FAR is associated with the AF influenced traffic steering policy handling.
It is assumed that all UPFs in the operator network serving as PSA for the
DNN/S-NSSAI/DNAI that is used for traffic that is potentially subject to SFC
controls need to be configured with traffic steering information towards all
SFPs supported for that DNN/S-NSSAI/DNAI.
# 7 Overall Evaluation
Editor\'s note: This clause will provide evaluation of different solutions.
Evaluation of solutions for KI1 and KI#2:
Solutions are so far split into the following categories:
\- AF influencing steering of subscriber traffic to SFC deployed by the 3GPP
operator or 3rd party service provider. Solutions propose to re-use the
Nnef_TrafficInfluence API where the AF includes an identifier that denotes
steering the traffic to specific N6 service functions/Service Function Chain.
The solutions can be further categorized into:
\- Solutions where the AF includes a new SFC Policy Identifier corresponding
to specific Service Function chain based on SLA agreements (Solutions 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, 7, 8). AF is aware of the SFC policy identifier based on SLA agreements
between the AF and 3GPP operator.
\- In solution 1 it is assumed that the same existing Traffic Steering Policy
identifier can be used.
\- Some solutions also propose the AF to include additionally metadata
information denoting specific SFC classification. (Solutions 3, 4, 5, 7).
\- Solutions where the AF discovers the available Service Function Chain
policies (and corresponding SFC Policy Identifier(s) of a 3GPP operator
(Solutions 3, 6, 7). A new API is proposed where the AF gets a list of
available SFC matching some criteria (e.g. SFC involving specific Service
Function) (Solutions 3,6) or the AF requesting configuration of an SFC policy.
\- Procedure in the 3GPP network to steer traffic to corresponding Service
Function Chain over N6-LAN:
\- All solutions propose the PCF to construct PCC rules taking into account
the information in the AF request. The PCC rule includes a SFC Policy
Identifier (potentially different for UL and DL traffic). The SMF based on the
PCC rule, provides appropriate N4 rules (e.g. FAR, PDR etc) for the
application traffic including the SFC policy identifier. The UPF based on the
N4 rules and SFC Policy Identifier routes traffic to appropriate SFC in
N6-LAN.
\- One solution proposes to re-use the existing Traffic Steering Policy
Identifier to steering traffic to N6-LAN (Solution 1).
\- There are different proposals on how to handle UPF selection for SFC. Some
solutions propose the SMF to select a UPF based on existing mechanisms (e.g.
based on DNN/S-NSSAI, DNN) (Solutions 1, 2, 3, 7, 8), or the SMF ensures that
an SFC-capable UPF is selected (Solutions 4). An SFC-capable UPF meaning a UPF
that is able to do service classification as defined in IETF specifications.
An SFC-capable UPF is able to use metadata information (if provided by the AF)
to carry out the service classification.
\- Some proposals also denote that if the AF includes metadata information,
then the PCC and SMF provide the metadata transparently to the UPF for service
classification (Solutions 3, 4, 5, 7).
# 8 Conclusions
Conclusions for KI#1 are as follows:
It is recommended to use the following principles and procedures as the basis
for the normative work.
\- 5GC may receive from the AF policies associating for one UE, a group of
UE(s) or all UE(s) some traffic (filter) with SFC policy IDs together with
optional metadata.
\- PCF checks whether the indicated SFC policy IDs and Metadata correspond to
an authorized SFC policy.
\- Based on AF request, the PCF determines a policy per SDF/application for
the purpose of steering the subscriber\'s traffic to appropriated N6-LAN
service functions deployed by the operator or a 3rd party service provider.
The policy is expressed in a Traffic Steering Policy (TSP) IDs that may be
different in UL and DL directions.
\- The PCF maps the SFC ID(s) into a TSP ID(s) (possibly one per direction)
that refers to a traffic steering behaviour that is configured in the SMF/UPF.
The SMF/UPF do not need to be aware of SFC IDs.
\- The PCF provides the TSP ID(s) and the metadata (if available) in the PCC
rules to SMF. The TSP ID refers to a traffic steering behaviour that is
configured in the SMF/UPF.
\- The SMF provisions corresponding PDRs, FARs, QERs to support SFC.
\- The SMF creates a FAR with the Forwarding Policy parameters set to the TSP
ID, and the FAR includes the metadata (if available).
\- The UPF serving as PSA uses TSP ID to steer traffic over N6-LAN. The UPF
performs the necessary actions to enforce the Forwarding Policy, e.g.
performing packet encapsulation, packet marking and routing the traffic
towards the service functions in the N6-LAN. The UPF provides the metadata (if
available) together with the traffic sent to the N6-LAN service functions.
NOTE 1: How the UPF transforms the metadata into actual information sent with
the traffic (e.g. NSH header, etc.) is based on local policies related with
the TSP ID and not specified.
NOTE 2: The NEF, PCF and SMF do not need to understand the metadata.
\- It is assumed that all UPFs in the operator network serving as PSA for the
DNN/S-NSSAI/DNAI subject to SFC control need to be configured with the same
traffic steering information for SFC processing.
Conclusions for KI#2 are as follows:
To enable the AF to request pre-defined SFC for traffic flow(s) related with
target UEs.
\- The Nnef_TrafficInluence API is enhanced to include additionally an SFC
policy identifier corresponding to a pre-defined Service Function Chain
policy. The request may include separate SFC policy identifiers for Uplink and
Downlink traffic of the subscriber traffic.
\- Only following information of Nnef_TrafficInfluence API are reused with N6
Traffic Routing requirements containing the SFC related additions described in
this clause.
Table 8-1
Information Name
* * *
Traffic Description Target UE Identifier(s) Spatial Validity Condition AF
transaction identifier
\- The AF is aware of SFC policy identifiers based on SLA agreements.
\- The PCF maps the SFC policy identifier to a corresponding identifier within
the PCC rule. This mapping is defined in the conclusions of KI1.
\- Support the N6-LAN traffic steering control and AF-influenced traffic
steering control to be applicable to the same traffic simultaneously.
\- The procedure for the Nnef_TrafficInluence service in TS 23.502, clause
4.3.6 is re-used, for example, in case the AF is not providing UE address the
NEF stores the AF request information in UDR.
###### ### Annex A: Pre-Rel-18 Traffic Steering Control
This Annex provides the excerpts referring to the existing traffic steering
control as well as general PCC and edge computing related concepts in TS
23.501 [2], TS 23.502 [3] and TS 23.503 [4].
**1\. TS 23.503 [4], clause 4.3.7: Traffic steering control.**
Traffic Steering Control refers to the capability to activate/deactivate
traffic steering policies from the PCF in the SMF for the purpose of:
\- steering the subscriber\'s traffic to appropriate operator 3rd party
service functions (e.g. NAT, antimalware, parental control, DDoS protection)
in the N6-LAN. This is supported in non-roaming and home-routed scenarios
only.
\- AF influence on traffic routing which enables the routing of the user
traffic matching the traffic filters provided in the PCC rule to a local Data
Network identified by the DNAI per AF request. This is supported in non-
roaming and LBO scenarios only, as described in clause 5.6.7 of TS 23.501 [2].
**2\. TS 23.503 [4], clause 4.2.4 and 6.1.2.3: PFD management.**
Management of Packet Flow Descriptions (PFDs) refers to the capability to
create, update or remove PFDs in the NEF (PFDF) and the distribution from the
NEF (PFDF) to the SMF and finally to the UPF. This feature may be used when
the UPF is configured to detect a particular application provided by an ASP.
The Management of Packet Flow Descriptions enables the UPF to perform accurate
application detection when PFD(s) are provided by an ASP and then to apply
enforcement actions as instructed in the PCC Rule.
**3\. TS 23.503 [4], clause 6.1.3.14: Traffic steering control.**
Traffic steering control is triggered by the PCF initiated request and
consists of steering the detected service data flows matching application
detection filters or service data flow filter(s) in PCC Rules. The traffic
steering control consists in:
\- diverting (at DNAI(s) provided in PCC rules) traffic matching traffic
filters provided by the PCF, as described in clause 5.6.7 of TS 23.501 [2].
\- applying a specific N6 traffic steering policy for the purpose of steering
the subscriber\'s traffic to appropriated N6 service functions deployed by the
operator, or a 3rd party service provider as described below.
The PCF uses one or more pieces of information such as network operator\'s
policies, user subscription, user\'s current RAT, network load status,
application identifier, time of day, UE location, DNN, related to the
subscriber session and the application traffic as input for selecting a
traffic steering policy.
The PCF controls traffic steering by provisioning and modifying traffic
steering control information in PCC rules. Traffic steering control
information consists of a traffic description and a reference to a traffic
steering policy that is configured in the SMF.
The SMF instructs the UPF to perform necessary actions to enforce the traffic
steering policy referenced by the PCF. The actual traffic steering applies at
the UPF. For enforcing the traffic steering policy, the UPF may support
traffic steering related functions as defined by other standard organizations.
The mechanism used for routing the traffic over N6 is out of 3GPP scope.
**4\. TS 23.503 [4], clause 6.2.2.6: Traffic steering.**
The SMF shall support traffic steering control as defined in clause 6.1.3.14
of TS 23.503 [4].
The SMF may be configured with the traffic steering policy IDs related to the
mechanism enabling traffic steering to the N6-LAN, DN and/or DNAIs associated
with N6 traffic routing requirements.
Upon receiving a PCC rule which contains the traffic steering control
information, the SMF shall provide the information to the UPF for the
enforcement. The traffic steering control information in the PCC rule may
include a set of DNAI(s) and for each DNAI a traffic steering policy ID and/or
N6 traffic routing information dynamically provided by the AF.
NOTE: The UPF can, for example, perform marking packets in order to indicate a
certain type of traffic to the DN side of the N6 reference point which enables
those packets to be steered in the DN. As another example the UPF can forward,
i.e. offload, traffic identified by the traffic descriptor to a local tunnel.
**5\. TS 23.501 [2], clause 5.8.2.8: for the PCC related functions.**
**\- Clause 5.8.2.8.1: Activation/Deactivation of predefined PCC rules which
is configured in the SMF.**
\- The traffic detection filters, e.g. IP Packet Filter, required in the UP
function can be configured either in the SMF and provided to the UPF, as
service data flow filter(s), or be configured in the UPF, as the application
detection filter identified by an application identifier. For the latter case,
the application identifier has to be configured in the SMF and the UPF.
\- The traffic steering policy information can be only configured in the UPF,
together with traffic steering policy identifier(s), while the SMF has to be
configured with the traffic steering policy identifier(s).
**\- Clause 5.8.2.8.2: Enforcement of Dynamic PCC Rules in which the SMF shall
maintain the mapping between a PCC rule received over Npcf and the flow level
PDR(s) used on N4 interface.**
\- The application detection filters required in the UPF can be configured
either in the SMF and provided to the UPF as the service data flow filter, or
be configured in the UP function identified by an application identifier.
\- When receiving a dynamic PCC rule from the PCF which contains an
application identifier and/or parameters for traffic handling in the UPF:
\- if the application detection filter is configured in the SMF, the SMF shall
provide it in the service data flow filter to the UPF, as well as parameters
for traffic handling in the UPF received from the dynamic PCC rule;
\- otherwise, the application detection filters is configured in UPF, the SMF
shall provide to UPF with the application identifier and the parameters for
traffic handling in the UPF as required based on the dynamic PCC rule.
**\- Clause 5.8.2.8.4: for the Support of PFD Management.**
**6\. TS 23.501 [2], clause 5.6.7.1 and clause 6.3.7.2: for AF influence on
traffic routing.**
\- For AF influence on traffic routing, the information can be either
determined by the PCF when requested by AF via NEF or statically pre-
configured in the PCF.
\- The AF request sent by the AF can provide the following information to
influence traffic routing towards N6-LAN:
\- the information to identify the traffic.
\- Potential Locations of Applications: Indicates potential locations of
applications, represented by a list of DNAI(s) or AF-Service-Identifier.
\- N6 Traffic Routing requirements: contains Routing profile ID and/or N6
traffic routing information corresponding to each DNAI and an optional
indication of traffic correlation.
NOTE 1: The N6 traffic routing requirements are related to the mechanism
enabling traffic steering in the local access to the DN. The routing profile
ID refers to a pre-agreed policy between the AF and the 5GC. This policy may
refer to different steering policy ID(s) sent to SMF and e.g. based on time of
the day, etc.
NOTE 2: The mechanisms enabling traffic steering in the local access to the DN
are not defined.
**7\. TS 23.502 [3], clause 4.4 and 4.18: for SMF and UPF interactions
including N4 session management procedures and N4 PFD management procedures.**
**8\. TS 23.502 [3], clause 5.6.7: Packet Flow Descriptions (PFDs) for
application detection and AF request information for multiple UEs.**
\- When a PDR is provided for an application identifier corresponding to the
PFD(s), the SMF shall provide either the PFDs retrieved from NEF (PFDF) as
described in TS 23.503 [4], or the pre-configured PFDs for an application
identifier to the UPF. If the PFDs are managed by local O&M procedures, PFD
retrieval is not used; otherwise, the PFDs retrieved from NEF (PFDF) override
any PFDs pre-configured in the SMF.
**9\. TS 23.502 [3], clause 4.3.6: AF influence on traffic routing.**
Clause 4.3.6 describes the procedures between an Application Function and the
SMF to maintain an efficient user plane path for Application Functions that
require it.
As described in clause 5.6.7 of TS 23.501 [2], an Application Function may
send requests to influence SMF routeing decisions for User Plane traffic of
PDU Sessions. The AF requests may influence UPF (re)selection and allow
routeing of user traffic to a local access (identified by a DNAI) to a Data
Network. The AF may also provide in its request subscriptions to SMF events.
#