# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions "shall" and "shall not" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions "must" and "must not" are not used as substitutes for
"shall" and "shall not". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and they
are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**Should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction "may not" is ambiguous and is not used in normative elements.
The unambiguous constructions "might not" or "shall not" are used instead,
depending upon the meaning intended.
**Can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions "can" and "cannot" are not substitutes for "may" and "need
Not".
**Will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions "is" and "is not" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
As part of Rel-17, 3GPP TS 23.255 [3] specified the overall application layer
architecture to enable application support for UAS applications over 3GPP
networks, generic support for UAS applications were specified in the SEAL
layer as outlined in 3GPP TS 22.434 [5], while general UAS-related aspects for
the 3GPP-architecture were specified in 3GPP TS 23.256 [4].
In Rel-18, the UAS application layer architecture requires enhancements to
further improve and enhance functionality in 3GPP for improved support
assisting the aviation industry.
# 1 Scope
The present document analyze requirements and identify key issues and develop
potential enhancements to the UAS application architecture. The study includes
identification of potential enhancements to the UAS architecture, potential
enhancements to the Service Enabler Architecture Layer (SEAL) and
corresponding application requirements.
The study bases its work on the existing stage 1 work within 3GPP related to
UAS as specified in 3GPP TS 22.125 [2].
The conclusions of the study will be aligned with 3GPP TR 23.700-58 [6]. The
recommendations from the study include solutions for the UAS architecture and
SEAL that will be considered for normative work.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.125: "Uncrewed Aerial System (UAS) support in 3GPP".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.255: "Application layer support for Uncrewed Aerial System
(UAS); Functional architecture and information flows".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.256: "Support of Uncrewed Aerial Systems (UAS) connectivity,
identification and tracking; Stage 2".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.434: "Service Enabler Architecture Layer for Verticals (SEAL);
Functional architecture and information flows".
[6] 3GPP TR 23.700-58: "Study of further architecture enhancements for
uncrewed aerial systems and urban air mobility".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.304: "Proximity based Services (ProSe) in the 5G System (5GS)".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.502: "Procedures for the 5G System (5GS)".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.303: "Proximity-based services (ProSe); Stage 2".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
No symbols are introduced in this Technical Report.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
DAA Detect And Avoid
DN Data Network
EDN Edge Data Network
LUN Local USS Network
SEAL Service Enabler Architecture Layer
UAE UAS Application Enabler
UAS Uncrewed Aerial System
UAV Uncrewed Aerial Vehicle
UAV-C Uncrewed Aerial Vehicle-Controller
USS UAS Service Supplier
UTM UAS Traffic Management
# 4 Key issues
## 4.1 Key issue #1: Direct communication between UAVs
In the current version of 3GPP TS 23.255 [3], the UAVs (UAV -- UAV and UAV --
UAV-C) communicate over Unicast Uu. Communication over a direct link between
the UAVs can improve performance and connectivity. Enhanced PC5 is the
expected solution for direct communication between UAVs.
Solutions for direct communication between UAVs is based on and must be
coordinated with the work outlined by 3GPP TR 23.700-58 [6].
It is required to study the following:
a) How the UAE layer can be enhanced to support usage of direct communication
between UAVs.
b) Whether and how the UAE layer functionality related to C2 communication
support can be enhanced if PC5 is used for direct communication.
## 4.2 Key issue #2: Support for multi-USS deployments
In the current version of 3GPP TS 23.255 [3], it is assumed that the UE
communicate with a single USS/UTM during a flight. However, it is not unlikely
that a single flight can span the service area of more than one USS/UTM.
In some scenarios, a UAS can be served by more than one USS, or by more USSs
in a USS network. A USS network can be considered a set of connected USSs for
exchanging information and sharing relevant details to ensure shared
situational awareness for UTM participants. USSs could have several geographic
areas and times for which they are providing services.
It must be secured that change of USS/UTM during an ongoing session (flight)
is supported by the UAE layer. In multi-USS scenarios, each USS can also be
located in different clouds and potentially deployed at the edge.
Solutions for UAE layer support for UAS operation in multi-USS deployments
must be coordinated with the work outlined by 3GPP TR 23.700-58 [6].
The key issue will investigate:
a) Whether and how the UAE layer can be enhanced to support change of USS/UTM
during flight.
b) Whether and how the UAE layer needs to be enhanced to assist the traffic
steering of UAS application traffic to different DN/EDN to avoid application
service disruption while in-flight.
NOTE: Liability/legal responsibility for UAV operation stays with UTM/UAS
operator.
## 4.3 Key issue #3: Coordination between Uu and PC5 for direct UAV-to-UAV or
UAV-to-UAV-C communication
In the current version of 3GPP TS 23.255 [3], the UAVs (UAV -- UAV and UAV --
UAV-C) can communicate over Unicast Uu interface. Besides this, ProSe/PC5
Communication over a direct link mentioned in 3GPP TS 23.304 [7] can also be a
solution for communications between UAVs. Communication over Uu and PC5 can be
used in parallel between UAVs for redundancy or for different kinds of service
scenarios. In some cases, the UAV needs to distinguish which traffic use which
kind of interface. In addition, the mechanisms for communications between UAVs
using multicast/broadcast Uu and ProSe/PC5 scenarios need further study.
Solutions for coordination between Uu and PC5 is based on and must be
coordinated with the work outlined by 3GPP TR 23.700-58 [6].
Therefore, it is required to study the following:
a) How the UAE layer can be enhanced to make coordination between network
based communication (Uu) and direct communication (PC5) for communications
between UAVs or between UAV and UAV-C.
## 4.4 Key issue #4: Support for detect and avoid services and applications
Development of the Support for Detect and Avoid Mechanism in 3GPP system is
being studied in 3GPP TR 23.700-58 [6]. The 5GC enhancement work for DAA
includes services for network assisted DAA and direct DAA via PC5.
Considering the stage 1 requirements and also 5GC enhancements for DAA, it is
required to study the aspects that UAE layer and SEAL can be supported for
DAA.
Further study is also required for UAE layer to support DAA scenarios where
UAVs belong to multiple PLMNs.
It is required to study the following:
a) Whether and how the UAE layer and/or SEAL services can be enhanced to
support DAA services and applications for collision avoidance considering the
Stage 1 requirements.
b) How the UAE layer can support DAA scenarios where UAVs belong to multiple
PLMNs.
NOTE: Solutions for DAA will be coordinated with the conclusions of the work
outlined by 3GPP TR 23.700-58 [6] and based on requirements for DAA specified
in 3GPP TS 22.125 [2].
# 5 Architecture requirements
## 5.1 General
This clause specifies all requirements related to enhanced application
architecture for UAS applications.
## 5.2 Support for multi-USS deployments
### 5.2.1 Description
This clause specifies the requirements related to support for multi-USS
deployments.
### 5.2.2 Requirements
[AR-5.2.2-a] The UAE Server shall provide a mechanism for configuring of
multi-USS capabilities from the USS.
[AR-5.2.2-b] The UAE Server shall provide a mechanism for configuring the
multi-USS capabilities at the UAE Client (UAV).
[AR-5.2.2-c] The UAV Server shall provide a mechanism to support change of USS
during UAS operations.
[AR-5.2.2-d] The UAE Client (UAV) shall provide a mechanism to support change
of USS based on the multi-USS capabilities when an immediate change of USS is
needed.
NOTE: The details of multi-USS capabilities will be specified during the
normative work.
## 5.3 Support for C2 direct mode feasibility reporting
### 5.3.1 Description
This clause specifies the requirements related to support for C2 direct mode
feasibility reporting.
### 5.3.2 Requirements
[AR-5.3.2-a] The UAE Server shall provide a mechanism for monitoring the
feasibility of ProSe/PC5 link for C2 communications.
[AR-5.3.2-b] The UAE Client shall be capable of reporting the feasibility of
ProSe/PC5 link for C2 communications.
## 5.4 Support for detect and avoid services and applications
### 5.4.1 Description
This clause specifies the requirements related to support for detect and avoid
services and applications.
### 5.4.2 Requirements
[AR-5.4.2-a] The UAE Server shall provide a mechanism for configuring of DAA
capabilities from the USS.
[AR-5.4.2-b] The UAE Server shall provide a mechanism for configuring the DAA
capabilities at the UAE Client (UAV).
[AR-5.4.2-c] The UAS application enabler layer shall provide a mechanism for a
UAS application specific server to obtain events for a UAV that can be
relevant for DAA.
[AR-5.4.2-d] The UAS application enabler layer shall provide a mechanism for a
UAS application specific client to obtain events for a UAV that can be
relevant for DAA.
# 6 Architecture
## 6.1 General
Figure 6.1-1 illustrates the detailed UAS application layer functional model
as outlined in 3GPP TS 23.255 [2].
Figure 6.1-1: UAS application layer functional model
## 6.2 Architecture enhancement
No enhancement to the Release 17 architecture is identified.
# 7 Solutions
## 7.1 General
The proposed solutions in this clause attempt to resolve all, or part of one
or more Key Issues provided in clause 4. As part of the proposed solution, the
proposed solution is also evaluated against the key issue(s) it attempts to
resolve.
## 7.2 Mapping of solutions to key issues
Table 7.2-1 Mapping of solutions to key issues
            KI \#1   KI \#2   KI \#3   KI \#4
* * *
Sol #1 X  
Sol #2 X  
Sol #3 X X  
Sol #4 X Sol #5 X
## 7.3 Solution #1: Change of USS during flight
### 7.3.1 Architecture enhancements
None.
### 7.3.2 Solution description
#### 7.3.2.1 General
This solution aims to address the gaps identified in Key Issue #2 "Support for
multi-USS deployments".
The solution covers registration of the UAE clients and the UAE servers multi-
USS capabilities to the USS, provision of the capabilities and policies of the
USS to the UAE client and the UAE server, and assistance by the UAE layer at
change of USS.
The functions of the USS are out of scope of the solution.
#### 7.3.2.2 Registration of multi-USS capabilities
Pre-conditions:
\- The UAE client has discovered the UAE server and is aware of the address of
the UAE server (e.g., FQDN).
NOTE: How the UAE client is provisioned with the UAE server information is
outside the scope of the current document.
\- The UAV has already been assigned with the UAV ID.
Figure 7.3.2.2-1: Registration of multi-USS capabilities of UAE client and UAE
server
> 1\. The UAE client sends a registration request to the UAE server. The UAE
> client includes its Multi-USS capabilities.
2\. The UAE server performs authentication and authorization check (e.g.,
based on pre-provisioned security information or by interacting with UAS
application specific server (e.g., USS/UTM)).
3\. The UAE server sends a registration response to the UAE client indicating
success or failure of the registration.
#### 7.3.2.3 Provision of multi-USS capabilities
##### 7.3.2.3.1 Multi-USS management
Figure 7.3.2.3.1-1 illustrates the procedure where the UAE server receives an
application request for managing the multi-USS capabilities from the UAS
application specific server.
Pre-condition:
\- The UAV has received its UAS ID from the UAS application specific server.
\- The UAV has performed the UAS UE registration procedure.
Figure 7.3.2.3.1-1: Multi-USS management procedure
1\. The UAS application specific server sends to the UAE server a Multi-USS
management request with the USS policies. The UAE server receives a Multi-USS
management request from a serving USS for managing the support for multi-USS.
The request includes the UAV (UAE client) identification information and
Multi-USS configuration parameters. The configuration includes: list of
allowed USSes information (e.g. FQDN), current serving USS information, USS-
change-initiation information (whether the UAE layer can initiate change of
USS), a Multi-USS support policy (when/how to initiate a change of USS). The
UAE server stores the Multi-USS support configuration parameters in the UAE
client context. In the case of removal of Multi-USS configuration parameters
for a USS from the UAE server, then the request shall include the UAV
identifier and a USS identifier (e.g. FQDN) for the USS that will be removed.
2\. The UAE server sends to the UAS application specific server a Multi-USS
management response with a positive or negative acknowledgement of the
request.
3\. UAE server executes the multi-USS configuration according to clause
7.3.2.3.2.
4\. After successful execution of USS management configuration, the UAE server
notifies the UAS application specific server with a Multi-USS management
complete based on the configured capabilities of the UAE client and the UAE
server.
##### 7.3.2.3.2 Multi-USS configuration
This procedure enables the configuration of the UAE client, based on a request
from UAS application specific server (which can be the USS/UTM) to configure
multi-USS capabilities to the UAE client.
Figure 7.3.2.3.2-1 illustrates the USS management configuration procedure.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The UAS UEs are connected to 5GS and authenticated and authorized by UAS
application specific server as specified in clause 5.2 of 3GPP TS 23.256 [4].
2\. UAE server has established a UAE session with the respective UAE clients
as the UAE clients are successfully registered to the UAE server.
3\. UAE server has performed the initiation of USS management capabilities as
in clause 7.3.2.2.2.
Figure 7.3.2.3.2-1: Multi-USS configuration procedure
1\. The UAE server sends a Multi-USS configuration request to the UAE client.
The UAE client receives a Multi-USS configuration request from the UAE server
that includes the Multi-USS configuration parameters. In the case of removal
of Multi-USS configuration parameters for a USS from the UAE client, then the
request shall only include a USS identifier (e.g. FQDN) for the USS that will
be removed.
NOTE: Further details on the elements and other procedures of multi-USS
configuration will be specified during the normative work in stage 2 and stage
3.
2\. The UAE client stores or removes the Multi-USS configuration parameters as
per the information received in step 1.
3\. The UAE client sends a Multi-USS configuration response to the UAE server.
#### 7.3.2.4 UAE layer assisted change of USS
Figure 7.3.2.4-1 illustrates the procedure where the UAE server initiates
change of USS.
Change of DN/EDN to avoid disruption while in flight due to change of USS is
not covered by this solution.
Pre-conditions:
1\. UAE client and UAE server have indicated Multi-USS support.
2\. UAS application specific server has provided Multi-USS capabilities and
policies to the UAE client and the UAE server.
Figure 7.3.2.4-1: UAE layer assisted change of USS
1\. The UAE server receives a USS change request from a UAS application
specific server. The request includes the UAV (UAE client) identification
information, a new serving USS information and USS change authorization
information (e.g. authorization token), USS change constraints parameters
(e.g. delay or geo location/area threshold for change). The UAE server
verifies that the request is authorized (e.g., Multi-USS capability is
enabled, new USS part of the allowed USS list).
Alternatively, the UAE server initiates the change of USS (i.e. on behalf of
the USS) based on USS provided Multi-USS configuration parameters (e.g. USS-
change-initiation parameter, Multi-USS support policy). If the UAE server is
allowed to initiate a change of USS according to the Multi-USS configuration,
the UAE server may select a new USS from the allowed USS list for the UAE
client to connect to without reception of an USS change request from the UAS
application specific server.
2\. The UAE server sends a USS change request to the UAE client including the
new serving USS information. The UAE client initiates the communication with
the new serving USS based on the USS change request and Multi-USS
configuration parameters.
3\. Perform change of USS.
If an emergency change of USS is deemed necessary by the UAE Client (e.g.
sudden loss of contact with the serving USS), the UAE client initiates the
change of USS (i.e. on behalf of the USS) based on USS provided Multi-USS
configuration parameters. In this case, the steps 1-2 are not performed.
4\. The UAE client sends a USS change response/notification message indicating
that a change of USS has been performed.
5\. The UAE server sends a USS change response/notification to the UAS
application specific server indicating that a change of USS has been
performed.
### 7.3.3 Solution evaluation
Key Issue #2 outlines the following to be investigated further with respect to
the impact on the application layer functional model for UAS:
a) Whether and how the UAE layer can be enhanced to support change of USS/UTM
during flight.
b) Whether and how the UAE layer needs to be enhanced to assist the traffic
steering of UAS application traffic to different DN/EDN to avoid application
service disruption while in-flight.
This solution fully addresses the bullet a) in Key Issue #2:
A summary of the UAE layer capabilities are:
1) UAE server and UAE client provide support for application specific layer
message exchanges related to change of USS/UTM during flight.
2) UAE client change USS/UTM during flight as per Multi-USS configuration
parameters.
NOTE: Change of DN/EDN to avoid disruption while in flight due to change of
USS is not covered by this solution.
The solution enables the USS/UTM to take or give back control of the change of
USS/UTM from/to the UAE server and/or the UAE client at any time.
## 7.4 Solution #2: Support for USS re-mapping for a UAS
### 7.4.1 Architecture enhancements
None.
### 7.4.2 Solution description
#### 7.4.2.1 General
This solution aims to address one of the gaps identified in Key Issue #2
"Support for multi-USS deployments".
The solution covers the assistance by the UAE layer at change of USS based on
partially overlapping multi-USS deployments, based on UAV location tracking.
UAE layer assists on the mapping and traffic steering of UAS traffic to
different DNAI based on the deployment of the USSs in different edge/cloud
networks.
In multi-USS scenarios, each USS can be physically located in different
clouds, and it is also possible that a USS is deployed at the edge. In such
multi-USS/LUN scenarios, the interaction with the communication network for
supporting a UAS session which requires the interaction to more than one USS
e.g. due to UAV mobility to different geographical area covered by different
edge cloud, needs to be specified.
One example is shown below, where USSs are deployed in different edges/clouds
and are clustered in different LUNs. In these cases, the interaction with 5GS
can be via different DNAIs, and the UAV/UAV-C can be travelling to any
location which is allowed to be based on the UAV route and the UAS operator
wishes/restrictions.
Figure 7.4.2.1-1: Example multi-USS deployment
#### 7.4.2.2 Procedure
Figure 7.4.2.2-1 illustrates the procedure where the UAE server supports the
change of USS.
Pre-conditions:
\- The UAV has performed the UAS UE registration procedure.
\- UAE client and UAE server have indicated Multi-USS support.
Figure 7.4.2.2-1: UAE layer assisted change of USS
1\. The UAE server has performed the USS management procedure of clause
7.3.2.3.1; however at the Multi-USS management request, UAE server also
receives from UAS application specific server the USS service areas
(geographical) for all allowed USSs, and optionally the USS to DNAI mapping
and a USS list per given Local USS network (LUN).
NOTE: If USS to DNAI mapping is not provided in step 1, it is assumed that
such mapping is available / pre-configured at UAE server (e.g. mapping of
geographical area to DNAI).
2\. The UAE server maps each USS with different topological areas based on the
USS to DNAI mapping (based on step 1), for all USSs which are allowed for a
target area where the UAV is allowed to fly (this for example can be within
the LUN). Then it also maps and stores all pairs of \ per LUN
or for the areas of interest for the UAV (e.g. based on the allowable routes).
3\. The UAE server tracks the location of the UAV, by requesting on-demand
location monitoring from SEAL LMS (acting as VAL server in procedure of clause
9.3.4 or clause 9.3.5 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [5]) or via subscribing for monitoring
the UAV location deviation (discussed in clause 9.3.11 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [5]).
4\. The UAE server if detects an expected UAV location change to an area
covered by a different USS (based on SEAL LMS monitoring subscription/request
as in step 3), it generates a trigger event indicating that the UE moves to an
area where the USS is overlapping with other USS or another overlapping USS
within LUN area is not available.
If it is an overlap, the UAE server checks whether the performance of serving
USS is expected to get impacted (e.g. by requesting DN performance analytics
for the target area) or if the serving USS is not supported at target area,
checks what is the best available USS and whether this can provide the same
services. The criteria for the best available USS are mainly the location of
the UAV, but it can be also the priorities of the USS (based on the policies
received) at the target area and the capabilities (services) provided by the
target USS to be equivalent.
5\. The UAE server sends to the UAS application specific server a trigger
message indicating the recommendation for a USS change for the UAS and
provides the target USS ID or just a need for changing USS. Alternatively, the
trigger message indicates a UAV mobility event, based on steps 3/4.
6/7. The UAS application specific server, based on the trigger and after
coordinating with source and target USSs (coordination is out of scope) sends
to the UAS application specific server a USS change command message indicating
the new USS information for the UAS.
8\. The UAE server translates this to a UP path change and interacts with NEF
as AF for influence UP path (switching to target DNAI). In particular UAE
server (acting as AF) checks whether it can serve the target DNAI
corresponding to the target USS based on the mapping of USS to DNAI which was
performed in step 3. Interaction with 5GC is performed according to
functionality for application function influence on traffic routing, see 3GPP
TS 23.502 [8] clause 4.3.6.3.
9\. The UAE server sends a USS change command to the UAV, indicating the UAV
(UAE client) ID, a new serving USS information and optionally USS change
authorization information.
10\. The UAE server receives a positive or negative acknowledgement for the
USS change.
11\. The UAE server sends a USS change notification to the UAS application
specific server upon successful USS change.
### 7.4.3 Solution evaluation
Key Issue #2 outlines the following to be investigated further with respect to
the impact on the application layer functional model for UAS:
a) Whether and how the UAE layer can be enhanced to support change of USS/UTM
during flight.
b) Whether and how the UAE layer needs to be enhanced to assist the traffic
steering of UAS application traffic to different DN/EDN to avoid application
service disruption while in-flight.
This solution addresses bullet a) and bullet b) in Key Issue #2. Management
aspects based on solution #1 are provided by the USS and used by the UAE
server to provide additional information for multi-USS configuration, like
service areas of the USSes, etc.
A summary of the UAE layer capabilities are:
1) UAE server handles USS service area mapping to DNAI configuration to
support application function influence on traffic routing as defined in 3GPP
TS 23.502 [8] clause 4.3.6.
2) UAE server provides assistance at change of USS for partially overlapping
multi-USS deployments based on UAV location tracking support related to change
of USS/UTM during flight.
3) UAE server forwards the commands for change of USS from the USS/UTM.
The solution enables the USS/UTM to be in control of the USS changes and
utilizes the UAE layer's assistance to track the UAV and trigger change of
USS.
## 7.5 Solution #3: Support for C2 direct mode feasibility reporting
### 7.5.1 Architecture enhancements
None.
### 7.5.2 Solution description
#### 7.5.2.1 General
This solution aims to address Key Issue #1 "Direct communication between UAVs"
and in particular enhancements related to C2 communication monitoring over
PC5. This solution addresses also Key Issue #3 since the outcome of such
solution can trigger some coordination between PC5 and Uu for C2 mode
switching.
The network-assisted mode (in-direct) is used to facilitate the C2
communication in BLOS; however when the PC5 is feasible/available UAVs needs
to switch to direct fast and without any loss of data. The
feasibility/availability of PC5 can be e.g. when the UAV returns towards the
UAV-C or when the expected QoS over PC5 is better than Uu (due to possible
congestions/QoS degradation/resource starvation in one or both Uu links).
The PC5 availability/feasibility indication for a C2 communication, will
provide the awareness to the UAE server to switch to direct C2 communication
if it is possible. The PC5 availability/feasibility can be captured at the
UAV/UAV-C, e.g. the UAV-C can periodically broadcast signals in different
frequencies, and upon reception of an ACK from the UAV to understand (based on
the received signal) whether direct C2 is possible. The UAE server based on
this indication can perform the procedure specified in 3GPP TS 23.255 [3] for
C2 mode switching if possible.
NOTE: This solution will not be considered for normative work unless SA2
provides the required functionality that aligns with this solution.
#### 7.5.2.2 Procedure
Figure 7.5.2.2-1 illustrates the procedure where the UAE server supports C2
direct mode feasibility checking.
Pre-conditions:
\- The UAV has performed the UAS UE registration procedure.
\- The UAV and UAV-C are both connected to 3GPP network and operate in
network-based C2 mode.
\- UAE Server has performed the C2 mode switching/selection capability
initiation as in clause 7.4.2.1 of 3GPP TS 23.255 [3].
Figure 7.5.2.2-1: Support for C2 direct mode feasibility reporting
1\. The UAE server sends a C2 direct mode feasibility request including the
ProSe codes for direct C2 operation, the UAV and UAV-C IDs and addresses, and
the time and area for which the monitoring of feasibility will apply. Also,
the request can include configuration of the expected reporting and
periodicity/frequency of reporting required.
2\. The UAE client of the UAV sends a feasibility response for the C2
communication.
3\. The UAE client performs PC5 discovery between UAV and UAV-C UEs, as
specified in ProSe Direct Discovery Models A, B defined in clause 5.3 of 3GPP
TS 23.303 [9]. The PC5 discovery information can be exchanged between UAE
clients, based on the configured ProSe announcements (e.g., based on codes
received in step 1).
4\. When the UAE clients are aware of the PC5 discovery, one or more clients
sends a PC5 feasibility report to the UAE server, to notify on the PC5
possibility. This PC5 feasibility report message can include the UE
identifiers, the UAS identification, a PC5 availability/feasibility
notification indication, PC5 capabilities/configuration. The PC5 feasibility
report can also include a preference/priority of the C2 operation mode, e.g.,
based on application requirements at the UAV-C and/or UAV.
5\. The UAE server triggers a dynamic C2 mode switching operation as in clause
7.4.2.4 of 3GPP TS 23.255 [3].
### 7.5.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses Key Issue #1 and Key Issue #3 and provides an
enhancement of C2 related functionality specified in Release 17, by allowing
the PC5 feasibility monitoring. This solution is dependent on SA2 Release 18
support for ProSe/PC5 for C2 communication (3GPP TR 23.700-58 [6]).
NOTE 1: This solution will be considered feasible only if the SA2 provided
concluded solution (as in 3GPP TR 23.700-58 [6]) works in the same manner as
required by this solution.
NOTE 2: The enhancements to procedures in clause 7.4.2 of 3GPP TS 23.255 [3]
to fulfill the objectives of this solution will be considered during normative
work (if concluded).
## 7.6 Solution #4: UAE layer support for DAA
### 7.6.1 Architecture enhancements
None.
### 7.6.2 Solution description
#### 7.6.2.1 General
This solution aims to address the gaps identified in Key Issue #4 "Support for
detect and avoid services and applications".
The solution covers registration of the UAE clients' DAA capability to the UAE
server, provisioning of the DAA policies from the UAS application specific
server to the UAE server and the UAE client and support for DAA from the UAE
layer to the UAS application layer.
The DAA capability of the UAE client is provided to the network to inform the
network that the UAE client support reception of DAA-policies from the network
and has functionality in the UAE layer to assist and coordinate support for
DAA in the UE
A DAA policy has two components:
a) The DAA application policy. This policy is used by the application and
transparently provided from the UAS application specific server to the UAS
client. The DAA application policy is timestamped and may be stored at the UAE
server, to let the operator know when and optionally what information was
provided to the UAS application.
b) The DAA support policy. This policy is used by the UAE layer, and contains
information pertaining to the UAE layer. This is parameters/rules for the UAE
layer to provide support for DAA applications.
NOTE: The complete list of parameters for the DAA support policy will be
specified during the normative work.
The Detect and Avoid operations performed by the UAS application layer is out
of scope of the solution.
#### 7.6.2.2 Registration of DAA capability
Pre-conditions:
\- The UAE client has discovered the UAE server and is aware of the address of
the UAE server (e.g., FQDN).
NOTE: How the UAE client is provisioned with the UAE server information is
outside the scope of the current document.
\- The UAV has already been assigned with the UAV ID.
Figure 7.6.2.2-1: Registration of DAA capability of the UAE client
> 1\. The UAE client sends a registration request to the UAE server. The UAE
> client includes an indication of its DAA capability.
2\. The UAE server performs authentication and authorization check (e.g.,
based on pre-provisioned security information or by interacting with UAS
application specific server).
3\. The UAE server sends a registration response to the UAE client indicating
success or failure of the registration for DAA support.
#### 7.6.2.3 Provision of DAA policies
##### 7.6.2.3.1 DAA support management procedure
Figure 7.6.2.3.1-1 illustrates the DAA support management procedure where the
UAE server receives an application request for managing the DAA configuration
parameters from the UAS application specific server.
Pre-condition:
\- The UAV has received its UAS ID from the UAS application specific server.
\- The UAV has performed the UAS UE registration procedure.
Figure 7.6.2.3.1-1: DAA support management procedure
1\. The UAS application specific server sends to the UAE server a DAA support
management request. The request includes the UAV (UAE client) identifier and
the DAA policies.
2\. The UAE server sends to the UAS application specific server a DAA support
management response with a positive or negative acknowledgement of the
request.
3\. The UAE server executes the DAA configuration according to clause
7.6.2.3.2.
4\. After successful execution of DAA configuration, the UAE server notifies
the UAS application specific server with DAA support management complete.
##### 7.6.2.3.2 DAA support configuration procedure
Figure 7.6.2.3.2-1 illustrates the DAA support configuration procedure. This
procedure enables the configuration of the UAE client, based on a request from
UAS application specific server to configure DAA policies to the UAE client.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The UAS UEs are connected to 5GS and authenticated and authorized by UAS
application specific server as specified in clause 5.2 of 3GPP TS 23.256 [4].
2\. UAE server has established a UAE session with the respective UAE clients
as the UAE clients are successfully registered to the UAE server.
3\. UAE server has performed the DAA support management procedure according to
clause 7.6.2.2.2.
Figure 7.6.2.3.2-1: DAA support configuration procedure
1\. The UAE server sends a DAA support configuration request to the UAE
client. The UAE client receives a DAA support configuration request from the
UAE server that includes the DAA configuration parameters.
NOTE: Details in case of e.g. removal of DAA policies will be specified during
the normative work.
2\. The UAE client stores or removes the DAA configuration parameters as per
the information received in step 1.
3\. The UAE client sends a DAA support configuration response to the UAE
server.
#### 7.6.2.4 UAE layer support for DAA applications
##### 7.6.2.4.1 Client initiated DAA support
Figure 7.6.2.4.1-1 illustrates the procedure with client initiated DAA
support.
Pre-conditions:
1\. UAE server has provided DAA policies to the UAE client.
Figure 7.6.2.4.1-1: Client initiated DAA support
1\. The UAE layer has, e.g. based on the DAA support policy and/or information
provided by the U2X layer (see 3GPP TR 23.700-58 [6]) detected UAVs in
proximity.
2\. The UAE client sends a DAA support information (i.e. U2X layer detected
information) to the UAE server indicating a detected flight path conflict with
one or more UAVs in proximity.
If the UAE client considers an emergency situation (e.g., due to lack of
response from the UAE server and/or UAS application specific server), the UAE
client shall inform the application layer (i.e. UAS Client) based on the DAA
support policy.
3\. The UAE server records the DAA support event with current timestamp. UAE
server requests UAE client location information from the SEAL location
services. The UAE server records the received location information with
current timestamp. The UAE server sends the DAA support information to the UAS
application specific server.
NOTE: The UAE server needs to provide trusted and timely network based
location information to the USS which can be used as critical input for USS to
handle or record DAA situations. The USS can provide deconflicting
instructions to the UAV based on provided location information or handle
properly potential flight path deviation due to DAA that is deconflicted
locally.
4\. The UAS application specific server provides a DAA support information
acknowledgement to the UAE server. The UAS application specific server may
include more information in the acknowledgement (e.g. other UAVs detected
information by network).
5\. The UAE server provides a DAA support information acknowledgement to the
UAE client, and the UAE client provides the application layer (i.e. UAS
Client) with the consolidated information from the UAS application specific
server.
##### 7.6.2.4.2 Server initiated DAA support
Figure 7.6.2.4.2-1 illustrates the procedure with UAS application server
initiated DAA support.
Pre-conditions:
1\. UAS application specific server has provided DAA configuration parameters
to the UAE client.
Figure 7.6.2.4.2-1: Server initiated DAA support
1\. The UAS application specific server has discovered a conflict related to
DAA (e.g. presence of other UAVs in proximity of the UAV), and will provide
the UAE client with relevant information.
NOTE: An example of such a conflict is that an UAV with U2X capabilities, see
clause 7.6.2.4.1 step 0, provides information about objects in proximity to
the UAS application specific server. The UAS application specific server can,
based on this, e.g. provide information to one or more surrounding UAVs that
does not have U2X capability.
2\. The UAS application specific server sends a DAA support information to the
UAE server which includes information of other UAVs in the proximity of the
UAV. The UAE server verifies that the request is authorized as described above
before sending the DAA support information to the UAE client.
3\. The UAE server sends a DAA support information from the UAS application
specific server to the UAE client. Coordination with Real-Time UAV connection
status monitoring and location reporting is performed by the UAE server, see
3GPP TS 23.255 [3] clause 7.5 and 3GPP TS 23.434 [5], clause 9.3.
Further, UAE client provides the application layer with the consolidated
information from the UAS application specific server.
4\. The UAE client sends to the UAE server a DAA support information
acknowledge.
5\. The UAE server sends the DAA support information acknowledge to the UAS
application specific server.
### 7.6.3 Solution evaluation
Key Issue #4 outlines the following to be investigated further with respect to
the impact on the application layer functional model for UAS:
a) Whether and how the UAE layer and/or SEAL services can be enhanced to
support DAA services and applications for collision avoidance considering the
Stage 1 requirements.
b) How the UAE layer can support DAA scenarios where UAVs belong to multiple
PLMNs.
This solution addresses the bullet a) and bullet b) in Key Issue #4:
A summary of the UAE layer capabilities are:
1) Management for provison of DAA-policies from the UAS application specific
server the UAS application client is provided by the UAE layer.
2) UAE layer provides support for handling of DAA support information.
3) Provision of support for DAA is PLMN-agnostic.
## 7.7 Solution #5: Support for DAA applications
### 7.7.1 Architecture enhancements
None.
### 7.7.2 Solution description
#### 7.7.2.1 General
This solution aims to address the gaps identified in Key Issue #4 "Support for
detect and avoid services and applications". The solution proposes two aspects
for the UAE layer support for DAA applications:
\- Providing real-time location update about UAVs to UASS (UTM/USS).
\- Providing dynamic information of UAVs in an application defined area to the
host UAV and/or UASS (UTM/USS).
It is considered that the DAA application logic which mainly includes decision
making for collision avoidance and its related signalling between the UAV and
UASS (USS) is out of scope of 3GPP.
#### 7.7.2.2 Enhanced real-time tracking of location information of UAVs to
USS
This procedure enables the USS to subscribe for real-time location information
of UAVs from UAE server.
1\. UASS (UTM/USS) performs the subscription with UAE server to obtain real-
time location information from UAE server as specified in clause 7.5.2.2 of
3GPP TS 23.255 [3] with the following modifications:
a. In step 1, the subscription request can be enhanced such that the UASS can
subscribe for a list of UAV IDs instead of a single UAV ID.
2\. Upon successful step 1 operation, the UAE server provides the
notifications to UASS (USS) as per the subscription request as specified in
clause 7.5.2.3 of 3GPP TS 23.255 [3] with the following modifications:
a. The notification message from UAE server to UASS (USS) can be enhanced to
contain one or more location information of the UAVs instead of the location
information of a single UAV.
#### 7.7.2.3 Tracking dynamic UAVs in an application defined area relative to
a host UAV
##### 7.7.2.3.1 General
The UAE server can be responsible for tracking a host UAV's dynamic
information (i.e., information of other dynamic UAVs in an application defined
area relative to a host UAV). As per a proximity range set by the application
layer, the UAE layer supports providing the dynamic information (i.e. other
UAVs' location information) to the UASS (UTM/USS) and/or to the host UAV.
This feature utilizes the following procedures:
\- UASS or the host UAV subscription for host UAV's dynamic information with
UAE server.
\- UAE server tracking host UAV's UE location with support from SEAL's
location management server.
\- UAE server management of dynamic UE location based group.
\- UAE server obtaining dynamic information from the UAVs in proximity range
of the host UAV.
\- UAE server notification of host UAV's dynamic information to the UASS
and/or to the host UAV.
NOTE: The details of the usage of dynamic information of host UAV by UASS or
by the host UAV is out of scope of this specification.
##### 7.7.2.3.2 Subscription for host UAV dynamic information
Figure 7.7.2.3.2-1 describes the procedure for subscription for host UAV's
dynamic information.
Pre-condition:
\- UASS has registered with UAE server 1 which is responsible for the host
UAV.
\- The UAV ID and application defined proximity range information are
configured on the host UAV.
Figure 7.7.2.3.2-1: Subscription for host UAV dynamic information
1\. The UASS or UAE client of host UAV sends a subscribe host UAV dynamic
information request to the UAE server 1. The request includes the UAV ID of
the host UAV, application defined proximity range information.
2\. The UAE server 1 stores the subscription information.
3\. The UAE server 1 sends subscription response to the UASS.
4\. The UAE server 1 obtains and initiates tracking the host UAV location from
the location management server 1 as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
##### 7.7.2.3.3 Management of dynamic UE location based group
Figure 7.7.2.3.3-1 describes the procedure for management of dynamic UE
location based group.
Pre-condition:
\- UAE server 1 has received an updated location of the host UAV as per
procedure specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
\- UAE server 1 is configured with UAE server 2..N information of other UAS
operator and their supported region of operation.
Figure 7.7.2.3.3-1: Management of dynamic UE location group
1\. Dynamic UE location based group creation or update is triggered (e.g.
notified of the UE location of host UAV) via the step 4 in clause 7.7.2.3.2
for the UAV ID of the host UAV.
2\. UAE server 1 uses its associated LMS 1 to obtain the dynamic UE list and
the corresponding location information in the proximity area of the host UAV
by providing the application defined proximity range and the UE location of
the host UAV as specified in clause 9.3.10 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
3\. UAE server 1 determines the list of other UAE servers 2..N operating in
the same location.
4\. For each UAE server determined in step 3, UAE server 1 requests the
dynamic UE list and its corresponding location information for the application
defined proximity range by providing the UE location of the host UAV.
5\. The UAE server(s) 2..N obtain UE information corresponding to the UE
location and application defined proximity range from its corresponding LMS
2..N as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [5].
6\. As per the agreement between the UAS operators, if the UAV IDs are not
shareable, then UAE server(s) 2..N may replace the UAV IDs with temporary UAV
IDs.
7\. The UAE server(s) 2..N sends get response with UE list in the UE location
and application defined proximity range to UAE server 1.
8\. If UAE server 1 has no dynamic UE location group for the UAV ID, the UAE
server 1 creates a dynamic UE location based group with the UE list received
from its LMS and other UAE server(s) 2..N. Further UAE server 1 stores the
dynamic UE location based group. Otherwise, the UAE server 1 updates the
dynamic UE location group with the latest UE information. The UAVs whose
locations are no more within the application defined proximity range are
removed from the dynamic UE location group.
##### 7.7.2.3.4 Obtaining dynamic information of the UEs in proximity range
###### 7.7.2.3.4.1 Subscription procedure within UAS operator
Figure 7.7.2.3.4.1-1 describes the subscription procedure within UAS operator
to obtain dynamic information from the UEs in application defined proximity
range.
Pre-condition:
\- UAE server 1 is tracking the host UAV and has created the dynamic UE
location based group as per procedure in clause 7.7.2.3.3.
Figure 7.7.2.3.4.1-1: Subscription procedure within UAS operator
1\. The UAE server 1 managing the dynamic UE location group sends subscribe
dynamic information request to the UAE clients who are part of the dynamic UE
location group. These UAE clients (UAVs) belong to the same UAS operator as
the host UAV. The request consists of reporting configuration (e.g. frequency
of reporting, event based).
2\. The UAE client(s) store the subscription information.
3\. The UAE client(s) send a subscription response to the UAE server 1.
###### 7.7.2.3.4.2 Subscription procedure across UAS operators
Figure 7.7.2.3.4.2-1 describes the subscription procedure across UAS operators
to obtain dynamic information from the UEs in application defined proximity
range.
Pre-condition:
\- UAE server 1 has created the dynamic UE location based group as per
procedure in clause 7.7.2.3.3.
Figure 7.7.2.3.4.2-1: Subscription procedure across UAS operators
1\. The UAE server 1 managing the dynamic UE location group sends subscribe
dynamic information request to the UAE server(s) who's UAVs are part of the
dynamic UE location group. The request consists of temporary UAV IDs,
reporting configuration (e.g. frequency of reporting, event based).
2\. As per the agreement between UAS operators, if UAV IDs are not shareable,
then UAE server 2 determines the UAV IDs corresponding to the temporary UAV
IDs provided in step 1.
3\. The UAE server 2 performs subscription procedure as specified in clause
7.7.2.3.4.1 with the UAE client(s).
4\. The UAE server 2 sends a subscription response to the UAE server 1.
NOTE: UAE server 1 initiates this procedure with other UAE servers operating
in the area.
##### 7.7.2.3.5 Notification procedure
Figure 7.7.2.3.5-1 describes the notification procedure of dynamic information
from the UEs in application defined proximity range.
Pre-condition:
\- UAE server 2 has received the notification of dynamic information from its
subscribed UAE client(s).
Figure 7.7.2.3.5-1: Notification procedure
1\. As per subscription procedure in clause 7.7.2.3.4.1 and clause
7.7.2.3.4.2, the UAE client(s) and UAE server 2 (of another UAS operator) send
notification of dynamic information to the UAE server 1. The notification
includes the nearby UE information (e.g. UAVs), distance with nearby UEs, UEs
location information. As per agreement between UAS operators, if UAV IDs are
not shareable, then UAE server 2 includes the temporary UAV IDs in the
notification.
2\. The UAE server 1 aggregates information from different UAE clients to
create the host UAV dynamic information.
##### 7.7.2.3.6 Notification of host UAV dynamic information
Pre-conditions:
\- UASS has performed subscription as per procedure in clause 7.7.2.3.2 with
UAE server 1.
\- UAE server 1 has prepared the host UAV dynamic information as per procedure
in clause 7.7.2.3.5.
Figure 7.7.2.3.6: Notification for host UAV dynamic information
1\. The UAE server 1 sends notification of host UAV dynamic information to the
subscribed entity (i.e. UASS and/or to the subscribed UAE client of the host
UAV). The notification includes the aggregated information of all the UEs in
the application defined proximity range of the host UAV and the location of
the host UAV.
2\. The UASS or the UAE client of the host UAV updates the host UAV dynamic
information with the host UAV dynamic information received in step 1. The UAE
client provides the host UAV dynamic information to the UAS Client.
### 7.7.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses Key Issue #4 by defining UAV(s) tracking capabilities
at UAE layer. It is a viable solution for the UASS (UTM/USS) or host UAV to
manage DAA scenarios by utilizing the UAE layer capabilities of real time UAV
location tracking and availing host UAV dynamic information in an application
defined area.
# 8 Deployment scenarios
## 8.1 General
There is no deployment scenario described in this Technical Report.
# 9 Overall evaluation
There is no architecture enhancement described in this Technical Report.
## 9.1 Architecture enhancements
## 9.2 Key issue evaluations
### 9.2.1 General
_This clause compares and evaluates all proposed solutions against each of the
key issues listed in clause 4._
All the key issues, solutions and architecture enhancements specified in this
technical report are listed in Table 9.2.1-1.
Table 9.2.1-1 provides a mapping of the key issues to the related solutions.
It also indicates whether the solution requires enhancement to the Release-17
architecture and lists the dependencies on other working groups.
Table 9.2.1-1 Key issue and solutions
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Key issues\ | Solution | Ar | E | Dependency | | (evaluation | | chitectural | nhancements | on other | | clause | | enhancement | required | working | | reference) | | | | groups | | | | (clause | | | | | | reference) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **KI #1 | So |_7.5 _|_ None _|__SA2_ _| | Direct | lution #3: | | | | | co | Support for | | | | | mmunication | C2 direct | | | | | between | mode | | | | | UAVs_ _| feasibility | | | | | | reporting | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |_ KI #2: | _Sol |_ 7.3 _|_ None* | _**None ___| | Support for | ution #1:\ | | | | | multi-USS |_ Change of | | | | | d | USS during | | | | | eployments_ | flight\ | | | | | | _NOTE _| | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | |_ So | _7.4_ | _None_ | _None_ | | | lution #2: | | | | | | Support for | | | | | | USS | | | | | | re-mapping | | | | | | for a UAS _| | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI #3: | So |_ 7.5 _|_ None _|_ SA2 _| | C | lution #3: | | | | | oordination | Support for | | | | | between Uu | C2 direct | | | | | and PC5 for | mode | | | | | direct | feasibility | | | | | UAV-to-UAV | reporting | | | | | or | | | | | | U | | | | | | AV-to-UAV-C | | | | | | co | | | | | | mmunication | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI #4: |_ So | _7.6_ | _None_ | _None_ | | Support for | lution #4: | | | | | detect and | UAE layer | | | | | avoid | support for | | | | | services | DAA _| | | | | and | | | | | | a | | | | | | pplications | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | |_ So | _7.7_ | _None_ | _None_ | | | lution #5: | | | | | | Support for | | | | | | DAA | | | | | | ap | | | | | | plications* | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | Change of | | | | | | DN/EDN to | | | | | | avoid | | | | | | disruption | | | | | | while in | | | | | | flight due | | | | | | to change | | | | | | of USS is | | | | | | not covered | | | | | | by this | | | | | | solution. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 9.2.2 Evaluation of key issue #1: Direct communication between UAVs
Key Issue #1 outlines the following to be investigated:
a) How the UAE layer can be enhanced to support usage of direct communication
between UAVs.
b) Whether and how the UAE layer functionality related to C2 communication
support can be enhanced if PC5 is used for direct communication.
Solution #3 is selected as the basis for normative work, based on the
following principles and with the following constraints:
1) Provision of enhancement of C2 related functionality.
2) Allowance of PC5 feasibility monitoring.
This solution is dependent on the support for ProSe/PC5 for C2 communication,
see 3GPP TR 23.700-58 [6].
This solution will be considered feasible only if the concluded solution in
3GPP TR 23.700-58 [6] works in the same manner as required by the solution
specified in clause 7.5.
Enhancements to the procedures in of 3GPP TS 23.255 [3] clause 7.4.2 to
fulfill the objectives of this solution will be considered during normative
work (if concluded).
### 9.2.3 Evaluation of key issue #2: Support for multi-USS deployments
Key Issue #2 outlines the following to be investigated:
a) Whether and how the UAE layer can be enhanced to support change of USS/UTM
during flight.
b) Whether and how the UAE layer needs to be enhanced to assist the traffic
steering of UAS application traffic to different DN/EDN to avoid application
service disruption while in-flight.
Solution #1 focuses on bullet a) including handling of management and policy
for multi-USS deployments. By the policy for multi-USS configuration
parameters, the USS will decide the level of control the UAE layer can take on
behalf of the USS.
Solution #2 re-use the management and policy-framework from solution #1, with
additions for mapping between USS service areas and 3GPP infrastructure
information (i.e., DNAI).
Solution #1 and solution #2 complements each other to address both bullet a)
and bullet b) using a common policy framework.
A policy-based approach with the execution as requested by the USS via the UAE
Client / UAE server in solution #1 and a UAE Server centric approach in
solution #2 are compatible with each other and can be combined into a "UAE
layer assisted / USS controlled" based solution covering all possible
scenarios and requirements of key issue #2. This approach is in line with the
principles and functionality specified in 3GPP TS 23.255 [3] for C2
comunication mode selection/switching.
Solution #1 and solution #2 are selected as the basis for normative work,
based on the following combined UAE layer assisted / USS controlled
principles:
1) The Multi-USS capabilities of the UAE client and the UAE server are
provided to the USS.
2) The UAE server and the UAE client are provided with policies from the USS
for multi-USS deployments.
3) The USS is always in control of the decision for USS change during flight.
The solutions enable the USS to explicitly make the decision to change the USS
or provide/revoke permissions to the UAE client to make the decision on behalf
of the USS based upon configuration provided by the USS when communication
with the USS is lost.
NOTE: Possible actions by the UAE server due to loss of contact with the USS
will be discussed during the normative phase.
4) The UAE server uses information provided by the USS in the policies for
multi-USS deployment and the UAV location from the 3GPP network when providing
a notification to the USS about a possible change of USS. This is based on the
policy from the USS. The USS can initiate change of USS if this is required.
5) The UAE client notifies the UAE server when, based on policy from the USS,
it detects condition for change of USS. The UAE server provides an indication
to the USS to enable the USS to make the decision of change of USS.
The UAE client may also trigger an immediate/autonomous change of USS, but
only in emergency situations.
6) The UAE server can, based on UAV tracking information from SEAL LMS and
detection of UAV mobility to the DNAI associated with the USS, inform the USS
about possible change of USS. Based on this, the USS can initiate a change of
USS.
7) For cases where UAE server cannot determine the conditions for change of
USS, the UAE server relies on UAE client assistance as above.
8) The UAE server performs traffic influence for the change of USS.
### 9.2.4 Evaluation of key issue #3: Coordination between Uu and PC5 for
direct UAV-to-UAV or UAV-to-UAV-C communication
Key Issue #3 outlines the following to be investigated:
1) How the UAE layer can be enhanced to make coordination between network
based communication (Uu) and direct communication (PC5) for communications
between UAVs or between UAV and UAV-C.
Due to the overlap between Key Issue #1 and Key Issue #3, a common solution
for both Kis are provided.
Solution #3 is selected as the basis for normative work, based on the
following principles and with the following constraints:
1) Provision of enhancement of C2 related functionality.
2) Allowance of PC5 feasibility monitoring.
This solution is dependent on the support for ProSe/PC5 for C2 communication,
see 3GPP TR 23.700-58 [6].
This solution will be considered feasible only if the concluded solution in
3GPP TR 23.700-58 [6] works in the same manner as required by the solution
specified in clause 7.5.
Enhancements to the procedures in of 3GPP TS 23.255 [3] clause 7.4.2 to
fulfill the objectives of this solution will be considered during normative
work (if concluded).
### 9.2.5 Evaluation of key issue #4: Support for detect and avoid services
and applications
Key Issue #4 outlines the following to be investigated:
a) Whether and how the UAE layer and/or SEAL services can be enhanced to
support DAA services and applications for collision avoidance considering the
Stage 1 requirements.
b) How the UAE layer can support DAA scenarios where UAVs belong to multiple
PLMNs.
Solution #4 addresses bullet a) by including provisioning of the policy for
DAA from the UAS server via the UAE layer to the UAS application and support
from the UAE layer to the DAA decision making process in the UAS client.
Bullet b) is also supported by Solution #4 by the fact that both the UAS
application layer and the UAE layer are PLMN-agnostic.
Solution #5 addresses bullet a) where UAE server provides capabilities for
real-time UAV(s) tracking by the UAS application specific server or UAV. The
UAS application specific server can provide an application defined area or
proximity range with respect to a host UAV to obtain host UAV dynamic
information which includes the information of other UAVs in the proximity
range which can be a potential collision object for the host UAV. This
information is utilized by UASS or the UAV to manage the DAA scenario. The
application process of DAA is up to the UAV client and the UASS (UTM/USS) and
how they use the UAE layer provided information is out of scope of the
specification.
Solution#5 adressess bullet b) where UAE server supports capabilities of UAV
tracking for the UAVs which belong to any UAS operator or connected via any
PLMN operator.
Solution #4 and Solution 5 are selected as the basis for normative work, based
on the following UAE layer assisted / USS controlled principles:
1) The DAA capability of the UAE client is provided to the server.
2) The UAS client, the UAE client and the UAE server are provided with DAA
policies from the USS.
3) UAE layer will support providing information for the DAA decision making
process.
4) The UAS application specific server can provide application defined area or
proximity range and detects potential collision object for a host UAV in
flight.
The UAS application layer is always in control of the decision for DAA.
# 10 Conclusions
## 10.1 Architecture enhancements
There is no architecture enhancement described in this Technical Report, see
subclause 9.1.
## 10.2 Solutions
The overall evaluation of Key Issue #1, is described in clause 9.2.2. This
refer to selection of Solution #3 as the basis for normative work.
The overall evaluation of Key Issue #2 is described in clause 9.2.3. This
refer to selection of Solution #1 and solution #2 as the basis for normative
work.
The overall evaluation of Key Issue #3 is described in clause 9.2.4. This
refer to selection of Solution #3 as the basis for normative work.
The overall evaluation of Key Issue #4 is described in clause 9.2.5. This
refer to selection of Solution #4 and Solution 5 as the basis for normative
work.
#