# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies sharing of administrative configuration between
interconnected MC service systems, based on stage 1 requirements specified in
3GPP TS 22.280 [2].
This study investigates related use cases and identifies solutions to support
exchange administrative configuration, security relevant data and information
between interconnected MC service systems.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.280: \"Mission Critical Services Common Requirements (MCCoRe);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TR 22.881: \"Study on sharing administrative configuration
information between interconnected Mission Critical (MCX) service systems\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.180: \"Security of the Mission Critical (MC) service\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.280: \"Common functional architecture to support mission
critical services; Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**Administrative Configuration Management eXchange (ACMX):** A term that
describes the exchange of administrative configuration management information
(e.g. MC service user profile, group management configuration, system
parameters) between interconnected MC systems.
**Primary ACMC** : Administrative Configuration Management Client of an MC
service user that is homed to the primary MC system.
**Primary ACMS** : Administrative Configuration Management Server of the
primary MC system.
**Partner ACMC** : Administrative Configuration Management Client of an MC
service user that is homed to partner MC system(s).
**Partner ACMS** : Administrative Configuration Management Server of the
partner MC system.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
> ACMX Administrative Configuration Management eXchange.
>
> ACMC Administrative Configuration Management Client
ACMS Administrative Configuration Management Server
# 4 Scenarios
## 4.1 General
3GPP TR 22.881 [3] identified some use cases under which the administrative
configurations exchange between interconnected MC systems (2 or more MC
systems) would typically take place. This will help to identify and specify
the solutions aspects in this study, in order to serve these use cases
properly.
## 4.2 Relationship between MC systems
Figure 4.2-1 describes the relationship between the interconnected MC systems
involved in exchanging the administrative configurations.
Figure 4.2-1: Relationship between interconnected MC systems
An authorized user can trigger the exchange of administrative configurations
or/and information with one or more interconnected partner MC system at the
same time, which should be regulated through the service agreements with the
partner MC systems. The interconnected partner MC systems shall have service
agreements to the primary MC system, this is mandatory for this setup. The MC
partner systems could potentially have service agreement between them, but
this is not relevant for this study.
Processing the configuration data might require the involvement of an
authorized user (manually or automatically), who can decide whether to accept,
modify or reject the configuration data.
# 5 Key issues
## 5.1 Key issue 1: functional architecture
The support of sharing administrative configurations mechanism in MC service
Systems would imply the need to provide new functions and/or sub-functions to
the existing MC functional architecture. Defining the overall architecture
would help to enhance and develop proper mechanisms, information flows and
procedures.
This key issue will:
\- Identify the functional architecture enhancements to support this
mechanism,
\- Describe the details of the single elements from that enhanced
architecture.
## 5.2 Key issue 2 -- Identification
Performing an ACMX transaction requires to identify the authorized users
managing the ACMX in the primary and the partner MC systems, as well as the MC
service user(s), i.e. the users require configuration data for migration
and/or interconnection.
List of key issues:
\- Investigate and clarify, how the authorized users in the primary and the
partner MC system are identified, as well the MC service user(s), which are
subject of configuration and information exchange between interconnected MC
systems.
\- Identify the impact on existing solutions.
## 5.3 Key issue 3 -- Change user configuration
Migration of MC service users between MC systems may require that their user
configuration data to be used in the target partner MC system has been settled
prior to attempting requesting MC service there.
List of key issues:
\- Investigate and define how to negotiate and agree user profiles (user
configuration data) that enable the owner to migrate into a partner MC system.
\- Investigate and define methods or mechanisms how an authorised MC service
user can request changes for MC service user configuration data in a partner
MC system.
## 5.4 Key issue 4 -- Group configuration data
The exchange of administrative group configuration data between interconnected
MC systems, i.e. between a primary MC system and one or more partner MC
systems needs specifying.
Solutions are required that enable the exchange of administrative group
configuration data between interconnected MC systems.
List of key issues:
\- Investigate and develop solutions, if required, which enable the exchange
of administrative group configuration data between interconnected MC systems,
which are not yet currently available.
\- Investigate and develop solutions, if required, which enable requesting
changes, such as adding or deleting group configuration data for MC service
users located in one or more partner MC systems.
Investigate and develop solutions, if required, which enable the
exchange/request of information relating to group configuration for MC service
users located in one or more partner MC systems.
## 5.5 Key issue 5 -- Service configuration data
The exchange of administrative service configuration data between
interconnected MC systems, i.e. between a primary MC system and one or more
partner MC systems needs specifying.
Solutions are required that enable the exchange of administrative service
configuration data between interconnected MC systems.
List of key issues:
\- Investigate and develop solutions, if required, which enable the exchange
of administrative service configuration data between interconnected MC
systems, which are not yet currently available.
\- Investigate and develop solutions, if required, which enable requesting
changes, such as adding or deleting service configuration data for MC service
users located in one or more partner MC systems.
\- Investigate and develop solutions, if required, which enable the
exchange/request of information relating to service configuration for MC
service users located in one or more partner MC systems.
## 5.6 Key issue 6: authorization
For sharing administrative configurations, an authorized user in the primary
MC system should be enabled to use this service; where this user should have
the corresponding/sufficient access rights to perform the required actions to
serve a certain use case.
For providing different access permissions to different authorized users, some
access control components could be used to determine the level of
authorization of each user. In addition, access control components could help
to manage requests and information exchange and to track the access activities
for user(s) to ensure their accountability for the performed actions under
different circumstances.
The involved MC systems operate independently, using control entities for
connecting and exchanging the administrative data, where these control
entities manage the parameters exchange at their own MC system
entities/servers.
This key issue will:
\- Clarify how to reuse or enhance available methods to authorize an
administrator or authorized user at primary system and;
\- clarify how to authorize the exchange between MC systems.
\- Investigate whether and how the different scenarios/use cases could
influence the authorization level for that user(s).
NOTE 1: The authorized user is not a migrated MC service user in partner MC
system, and is not changing the configurations directly in partner MC system
NOTE 2: Procedures for authentication/authorization for MC service user(s) in
inter-domain and/or migrating are defined in 3GPP TS 33.180 [4].
## 5.7 Key issue 7: Secure exchange and topology hiding
Administrative configurations exchange is performed between MC systems,
sharing the same security domain, or are located in different security
domains. This would imply the need to ensure a secure exchange between MC
systems, and at the same time without exposing the network topology of
involved MC systems.
This key issue will:
\- Investigate and clarify how to perform administrative configuration
exchange without compromising the integrity and security of the involved MC
systems.
\- Investigate and clarify how to perform administrative configuration
exchange without exposing the network topology of either MC systems.
# 6 Architecture requirements
## 6.1 General
This clause provides a general description of enhancements to the architecture
requirements.
## 6.2 Requirements
### 6.2.1 General
#### 6.2.1.1 Description
This clause specifies the general requirements for functional architecture.
#### 6.2.1.2 Requirements
[AR-6.2.1.2-01] An authorized user of an MC system shall be able to exchange
administrative configuration parameters and device information with one or
more partner MC system(s) at the same time.
[AR-6.2.1.2-02] An authorized user of an MC system shall have the capability
to address partner MC system(s) by a worldwide unique identity.
[AR-6.2.1.2-03] An authorized user of an MC system shall have appropriate
access to setup, initiate, authorize, verify and review interconnection and
migration requests between the primary MC system and the partner MC system(s).
[AR-6.2.1.2-04] The MC system receiving administrative configuration and
information requests shall have the capability to react to the requests.
[AR-6.2.1.2-05] MC system receiving a particular request shall be able to
notify the requesting MC system, including a result for this request.
[AR-6.2.1.2-06] An authorized user of an MC system shall be able to request
information from partner MC system about its available functionalities and
offered MC services.
[AR-6.2.1.2-07] MC system shall be able to provide information about its
available functionalities and offered MC services.
[AR-6.2.1.2-08] Exchange of information between MC systems shall not
compromise the security of either MC system.
[AR-6.2.1.2-09] Exchange of information shall not expose the internal
structure or configuration of either MC system.
### 6.2.2 User and group authorization
#### 6.2.2.1 Description
This clause specifies the requirements for MC service user and group
authorization by their primary MC system and the partner MC system(s) for
interconnection and migration.
#### 6.2.2.2 Requirements
[AR-6.2.2.2-01] The MC system shall be able to verify that the migration or
interconnection request is permitted (i.e. either by the primary MC system or
by partner MC system, or by both MC systems) for that MC service user.
[AR-6.2.2.2-02] The primary MC system may change or restrict the MC services
available to MC service user(s) which are provided by the system for
interconnection to particular partner MC system(s).
[AR-6.2.2.2-03] The MC system shall be able to authorize an incoming migration
or interconnection request from a particular MC service user.
> NOTE: Examples of such requests may include affiliation to groups or a
> specific group, to receive a list of interconnection groups and/or, being
> added to a group or groups.
[AR-6.2.2.2-04] The MC system shall be able to provide a user profile for a
migrated MC service user, which may change the authorizations compared with
the authorizations that the MC service user has for the same MC service within
the primary MC system.
### 6.2.3 User and group MC service registration
#### 6.2.3.1 Description
This clause specifies the requirements for MC service user and group service
registrations with partner MC system(s).
#### 6.2.3.2 Requirements
[AR-6.2.3.2-01] The MC system shall be able to request a list of
interconnecting groups from partner MC system(s).
[AR-6.2.3.2-02] The MC system shall be able to react to group modification
requests from a partner MC system(s).
[AR-6.2.3.2-03] The MC system shall be able to send a list of MC service user
ID\'s, including MC UE identification, that are proposed to be added as group
members in an interconnecting group to a partner MC system.
NOTE 1: The MC service UE label could be used as an UE identification element,
for example.
[AR-6.2.3.2-04] The MC system shall be able to receive a list of MC service
user ID\'s, including MC UE identification, that are proposed to be added as
group members in an interconnecting group from partner MC system(s).
NOTE 2: The MC service UE label could be used as an UE identification element,
for example.
### 6.2.4 Information and selection of available group communication
#### 6.2.4.1 Description
This clause specifies the requirements for MC service user information and
selection of available group communications between interconnected partner MC
system(s).
#### 6.2.4.2 Requirements
[AR-6.2.4.2-01] The MC system shall have the capability to provide information
about available group communications, which can lead to a participation
request.
[AR-6.2.4.2-02] The MC system shall have the capability to configure MC
Service User privileges to request information about available groups from
partner MC system(s).
[AR-6.2.4.2-03] An authorized user shall be able, based on the users
individual privileges, to request information about currently active and
available group communications from partner MC system(s).
[AR-6.2.4.2-04] An authorized user shall be able to request affiliation to
groups and/or currently active groups, available to the user and based on the
users individual privileges, from partner MC system(s).
[AR-6.2.4.2-05] An MC service user shall be able to receive pushed information
about available groups, based on individual privileges, from partner MC
system(s).
NOTE 1: Pushed information is information provided without sending a specific
request prior. This may be required for automatic notification if new and
relevant groups for a specific incident become available.
[AR-6.2.4.2-06] An MC system receiving the group affiliation request shall
have the capability to notify of a successful or denied affiliation request,
from partner MC system(s).
NOTE 2: Notification could be provided to the requesting MC service user or
alternatively to authorised MC service users, such as dispatchers, for
example.
### 6.2.5 Profiles for visiting MC service users
#### 6.2.5.1 Description
This clause specifies the requirements for profiles for visiting MC service
users migrating from their primary MC system into an interconnected partner MC
system.
#### 6.2.5.2 Requirements
[AR-6.2.5.2-01] MC system shall have the capability to pre-arrange visitor
user profiles.
[AR-6.2.5.2-02] MC system shall be able to provide a user profile for a
visiting MC service user.
[AR-6.2.5.2-03] MC system which hosts migrated MC service user shall have
authority over the MC service user profile changes, affecting its system.
[AR-6.2.5.2-04] MC system shall have the capability to exchange additional MC
service user information with the MC service user\'s home MC system.
# 7 Solutions
## 7.1 Common ACM procedure
### 7.1.1 Pending requests
#### 7.1.1.1 Solution description
##### 7.1.1.1.1 General
This clause provides a description of the common ACM procedure and the related
information flows used in other solutions. This procedure provides the
detailed description of the steps that are not included in other solutions for
simplicity.
This solution is not related to any specific key issue.
##### 7.1.1.1.2 Information flows
##### 7.1.1.1.2.1 ACM data notification {#acm-data-notification .H6}
Table 7.1.1.1.2.1-1 describes the information flow of the ACM data
notification from a ACM server to the ACM client.
Table 7.1.1.1.2.1-1: ACM data notification
**Information element** **Status** **Description**
* * *
MC service ID M The identity of the MC service user towards which the pending
ACM data notification is sent
##### 7.1.1.1.2.2 Get ACM data request {#get-acm-data-request .H6}
Table 7.1.1.1.2.2-1 describes the information flow of Get ACM data request
from an ACM client to the ACM server.
Table 7.1.1.1.2.2-1: Get ACM data request
**Information element** **Status** **Description**
* * *
MC service ID M The identity of the MC service user requesting for the
download of the pending ACM data (The ACM data corresponds to the user for
later delivery)
##### 7.1.1.1.2.3 Get ACM data response {#get-acm-data-response .H6}
Table 7.1.1.1.2.3-1 describes the information flow of Get ACM data response
from an ACM server to the ACM client.
Table 7.1.1.1.2.3-1: Get ACM data response
+---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | **Information Element** | **Status** | **Description** | +===========================+============+===========================+ | MC service ID | M | The identity of the MC | | | | service user requesting | | | | for the download of the | | | | pending ACM data (The ACM | | | | data corresponds to the | | | | user for later delivery) | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | ACM Data | M | Contains all ACM data | | | | that is pending for this | | (NOTE) | | user. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | NOTE: ACM Data can | | | | contain a priority which | | | | indicates the urgency of | | | | each individual pending | | | | ACM data element (e.g. | | | | priority can be high, | | | | medium, low for specific | | | | urgency). | | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+
##### 7.1.1.1.3 Procedure
Upon receiving an ACM request the ACM server should forward the request to the
authorized user at its MC system. Performing this process might require
considerable waiting time if the target authorized user is not logged on.
In addition, when an ACM server receives a response to a previously sent ACM
request, where the authorized user is not logged on, the ACM server should
store the response and notify the authorized user when the user logs on again.
The common procedure for pending ACM request/response is shown in figure
7.1.1.1.3-1
Pre-conditions
> \- The ACM server has received an ACM request, or a response, and has stored
> it.
>
> \- The ACM server has received an ACM request that should be validated by an
> authorized user
>
> \- The targeted ACM authorized user is currently not logged on.
Figure 7.1.1.1.3-1: Pending requests Procedure
> 1\. An authorized MC service user of the MC system logs on to the ACM
> client.
>
> 2\. The ACM server notifies the ACM client of the pending ACM data.
>
> 3\. The ACM client requests the ACM server to send the pending ACM data.
>
> 4\. The ACM server sends the stored ACM data to the ACM client.
NOTE: when this procedure referenced in other solutions, the individual ACM
request/response information flows are provided by the related procedures in
details.
#### 7.1.1.2 Solution evaluation
This solution provides a common procedure for handling stored ACM requests and
responses from partner MC systems.
### 7.1.2 Processing incoming requests automatically
#### 7.1.2.1 Solution description
##### 7.1.2.1.1 General
This solution provides the possibility of managing and responding to the
incoming requests automatically. It describes the automation options performed
in the ACM server or by an automated ACM client.
##### 7.1.2.1.2 Automation performed by ACM server
The partner ACM server verifies the request and send a response to the primary
MC system. Automation performed by ACM server shown in Figure 7.1.2.1.2-1.
Figure 7.1.2.1.2-1: Automation performed by ACM server
The following applies:
\- The partner ACM server audits the request and decides whether to apply the
configurations or not.
\- The partner ACM server takes whatever actions are needed to apply the
configurations to the partner MC system. The actions within the partner MC
system to apply the configurations, including the interaction with other
servers, are outside the scope of the 3GPP specification
\- The partner ACM server provides the possibility for the authorized users in
the partner MC system to update the automation rules, or to terminate this
automation, if required.
\- The partner ACM server provides tracking mechanism for the authorized users
in the MC system for all automatically performed actions.
##### 7.1.2.1.3 Automation performed by automated ACM client
The ACM server sends the received request to an automated ACM client for
processing and sending a response automatically to primary MC system without
human interaction, as shown figure 7.1.2.1.3-1.
Figure 7.1.2.1.3-1: Automation performed by an automated ACM client
The following applies:
\- The automated ACM client is enabled/logged-in and connected to ACM server
\- The automated ACM client audits and verifies the request to decide whether
to apply the configurations or not.
\- The automated ACM client takes whatever actions are needed to apply the
configurations to the partner MC system. The actions within the partner MC
system to apply the configurations are outside the scope of the 3GPP
specification
\- The MC system provides the possibility for the authorized users to update
the automation rules, or to terminate the automated ACM client and accordingly
the process automation, if required.
\- The partner ACM server provides tracking mechanism for the authorized users
in the partner MC system for all automatically performed actions by an
automated client.
#### 7.1.2.2 Solution evaluation
This solution provides description for handling stored ACM requests and
sending the responses automatically from partner MC systems.
## 7.2 Mapping of solutions to key issues
Table 7.2-1 Mapping of solutions to key issues
            KI \#1   KI \#2   KI \#3   KI \#4   KI\#5   KI\#6
* * *
Sol #1 X  
Sol #2 X  
Sol #3 X Sol #4 X  
Sol #5 X  
Sol #6 X  
Sol #7 X X  
Sol#8 X  
Sol #9 X
## 7.3 Solution #1: Functional architecture
### 7.3.1 Solution description
#### 7.3.1.1 General
This solution addresses key issue 1 defined in clause 5.1.
To allow required exchange of configuration data with a partner MC system, an
ACM server and ACM client are added to the functional model of the MC system.
This solution uses the interconnection interface and reference points as
specified in TS 23.280 [5] for the transfer of administrative configuration
information between two MC systems.
#### 7.3.1.2 Functional model
Figure 7.3.1.2-1 illustrates the generic functional model for Administrative
Configuration Management eXchange (ACMX).
Figure
An authorized user/administrator as described in 3GPP TS 23.280 [5] in clause
8.1.2 has granted special privileges and is able to use ACMC to communicate
with the ACMS in the primary MC system to perform an administrative
configuration exchange with a partner MC system.
The ACMS controls the administrative configuration exchange with partner MC
system(s) and manages at the same time the interaction with the relevant MC
service server entities within the primary MC system.
#### 7.3.1.3 Functional entities description
The Administrative Configuration Management Server (ACMS) is an MC system
entity that provides the necessary functionalities to control and perform
required transactions to exchange administrative configurations and/or
information between partner MC system(s). ACMS has the following functions:
\- Supports requests from the ACMC that result in exchanges with the partner
MC system to share administrative configurations and information.
\- Controls, processes, validates, accepts, forwards or rejects administrative
configuration exchange based on a set of pre-defined rules and policies.
The Administrative Configuration Management Client (ACMC) is a functional
entity that acts as user client that controls and performs required
transactions of administrative configurations and/or information exchange with
an Administrative Configuration Management Server.
### 7.3.2 Solution evaluation
This solution provides a generic ACMX functional model allowing the exchange
of configuration data between MC systems. It defines for this purpose the new
entities ACM server and ACM client to be used in both primary and partner MC
systems.
## 7.4 Solution #2: Enhancement to the MC service functional architecture
### 7.4.1 Solution description
This solution builds upon what is already contained in TS 23.280 functional
model for the MC services architecture.
### 7.4.2 Functional model description
### 7.4.3 On-network functional model
Each MC service can be represented by an application plane functional model.
The functional model across MC services may be similar but is described by the
individual functional entities and reference points that belong to that MC
service. Within the application plane for an MC service there is a common set
of functions and reference points. The common set is shared across services.
This common set of functions and reference points is known as the common
services core.
Figure 7.4.3.1-1 shows the functional model for the application plane for an
MC system.
Figure 7.4.3.1-1: Functional model for application plane for an MC system
The common services core functions and reference points are described in TS
23.280. The new common services core functions and interfaces are described
below.
In the model shown in figure 7.4.3.1-1, the following apply:
> \- The administrative configuration management client is an integrated
> functional entity of the configuration management client. The administrative
> configuration management client is described below.
>
> \- The administrative configuration management server is an integrated
> functional entity of the configuration management server. The administrative
> configuration management server is described below.
### 7.4.4 Administrative configuration management client
The administrative configuration management (ACM) client functional entity
acts as the application user agent for an authorized user that is responsible
for requesting, approving, and applying configurations between a primary MC
system and partner MC system. These configurations include MC service user
profile, group management configuration, and associated system parameters. The
administrative configuration management client interacts with the
administrative configuration management server.
The administrative configuration management client functional entity is
supported by the signalling user agent and by the HTTP client functional
entities of the signalling control plane.
### 7.4.5 Administrative configuration management server
The administrative configuration management (ACM) server functional entity
provides the temporary storage of configuration changes when requests are
received from a partner MC system. These configuration changes include MC
service user profile, group management configuration, and associated system
parameters. The administrative configuration management server validates
requests from the administrative configuration management (ACM) client. The
ACM client in the partner system is responsible for applying any changes in
the MC system once the configurations changes have been validated and
approved.
The administrative configuration management server functional entity is
supported by the SIP AS and by the HTTP server functional entities of the
signalling control plane.
### 7.4.6 Administrative configuration management server and client in a
primary MC system and partner MC system
The diagram in Figure 7.4.6-1-1 shows how an administrative configuration
management client in the primary MC system communicates with and
administrative configuration management client in a partner MC system.
Figure 7.4.6.1-1: Administrative configuration management between a primary
and partner MC system
### 7.4.7 Solution evaluation
This solution provides an enhancement to the existing functional architecture
to allow for the administrative configuration exchange between interconnected
MC systems by re-using existing communications constructs for interfaces and
functional entities.
## 7.5 Solution #3: ACMC authorisation
### 7.5.1 Solution description
#### 7.5.1.1 Overview
This solution addresses key issue 6 defined in clause 5.6. It describes the
general authorisation concept, triggered by an authorised user via ACMC to
enable performing administrative configuration management exchange (ACMX) with
partner MC system(s).
An authorised user (i.e. administrator) has the required privileges to use the
ACM client to communicate with the primary ACM server for performing an ACMX
with a partner MC system(s). The ACM server is in charge of control, process,
validate, accept, forward or reject administrative configuration exchange
based on a set of pre-defined rules and policies. The primary and the partner
ACM servers authorise the exchange between their MC systems.
NOTE: Security aspects including specification of the authorisation procedures
are to be decided in SA3.
#### 7.5.1.1a User profile configurations for using ACMX
Table 7.5.1.1a-1 describes the necessary ACM configuration data in the MC
service user profile to enable an authorised user to perform ACM transactions
with a partner MC system. Configuration and download of the MC service user
profile data, which is used by the ACM client and the ACM server, is defined
in TS 23.280[5].
Table 7.5.1.1a-1: MC service user profile configurations for authorisation of
ACMX (on-network)
**Reference** **Parameter description** **ACMC** **ACMS**
* * *
Subclause 5.16.4 of 3GPP TS 22.280 [2] Authorised to perform ACM transactions
Y Y Subclause 5.16.4 of 3GPP TS 22.280 [2] List of partner MC systems for
which user is authorised to perform ACM transactions (NOTE)  
> Identity of partner MCPTT system Y Y NOTE: Connectivity between ACM servers
> in a primary MC system and a partner MC system can be defined using existing
> mechanism as described in Solution #2 of this document.
NOTE: ACMX can only be performed while on-network.
#### 7.5.1.2 ACMX authorisation for an authorised user
Figure 7.5.1.2-1 describes high level user authorisation flow.
Pre-conditions:
> \- The primary and partner ACM servers validate the exchange between the MC
> systems (i.e. by out of band sharing of signing certificate);
NOTE 1: A similar procedure is defined in 3GPP TS 33.180 [4] in clause
5.1.4.2,
> \- The ACM client can communicate and is authorised to access the ACM server
> at the primary MC system
Figure 7.5.1.2-1: ACMX authorisation for an authorised user (ACMC)
Procedure:
1\. The ACMC of an authorised user requires authorisation from primary ACMS,
prior to any exchange with the partner MC system.
NOTE 2: The ACM server will check whether the user of the ACM client is
authorised at each transaction.
2\. Upon successful authorisation check, the ACMC can start the ACMX session,
3\. The partner ACMS verifies the received ACMX requests to decide whether to
continue the process.
### 7.5.2 Solution evaluation
This solution provides the authorisation mechanism to control and to enable an
authorised user to perform administrative configurations exchange with one or
more MC partner systems. The authorisation check of an ACMC is performed by
the primary ACMS for each transaction. The primary ACMS is responsible to
perform the exchange with the ACMS in the partner MC system.
## 7.6 Solution #4: Group configuration change
### 7.6.1 Solution description
#### 7.6.1.1 General
This solution addresses the following aspects:
\- Key issue 4 - change group configuration
\- The second precondition in 3GPP TS 23.280, clause 10.2.7.2:
\- One or more MC service group members are defined in the partner MC system.
#### 7.6.1.2 Procedure
##### 7.6.1.2.1 Group membership update by authorized user from a partner MC
system
The procedure for an authorized MC service user in a partner MC system to
request the primary MC system of the MC service group to modify group
membership to an interconnection group is shown in figure 7.6.1.2.1-1.
Pre-conditions
\- MC system A and MC system B are interconnected
\- MC system A and MC system B have implemented an ACMS
\- MC system B is the primary MC system of an interconnection group
\- The authorized MC service user of MC system A (the partner MC system) wants
to modify the membership of MC users of system A in the interconnection group
for which MC system B is the primary MC system.
\- When a functional alias is used as the target of the request by an ACM
client in the MC system A, it is required that the ACM server of MC system A
has subscribed to the MC service functional alias controlling server within
the MC system A, and that the ACM server of MC system B has subscribed to the
MC service functional alias controlling server within the MC system B.
Figure 7.6.1.2.1-1: Group membership update by authorized user from a partner
MC system
1\. The ACM client in MC system A sends a group membership update request to
the ACM server in MC system A, requesting to modify the membership of users
from MC system A in an interconnection group for which MC system B is the
primary MC system.
2\. The ACM server of system A checks whether the MC service user at ACM
client A is authorized for the request.
3\. The ACM server of MC system A sends the group membership update request to
the ACM server of MC system B, the primary MC system of the interconnection
group.
> 4\. The ACMS of MC system B sends a process indication to MC system A, and
> stores, verifies and assesses the incoming request.
>
> 4a. Based on local policy, the ACMS of system B may automatically handle the
> request as described in clause 7.1.2 and send a response to the ACMS of MC
> system A (i.e. perform step 8).
>
> 4b. Otherwise, the ACM server requests verification by an ACM client,
> following the pending request procedure in clause 7.1.1 if the user is not
> logged on, and steps 5, 6 and 7. If the request targets a functional alias
> the ACM server resolves the functional alias (based on the current state of
> the functional alias) and proceeds as follows:
>
> \- if the functional alias is active for one ACM client, the request is sent
> to the ACM client;
>
> \- if the functional alias is active for more than one ACM client, the ACM
> server sends the request to one of these ACM clients based on the local
> policy;
\- if the functional alias is not currently active, the ACM server stores the
request.
5\. The ACM server of MC system B sends the stored group membership update
request to the ACM client of MC system B.
6\. The authorized MC service user of MC system B (manually) screens the
content of the group membership update request and decides to approve it or
not. The authorized user in the MC system B takes whatever actions are needed
to apply the group membership update. The actions within the MC system B to
apply this configurations are outside the scope of the 3GPP specifications.
7\. The ACM client of MC system B sends a group membership update response to
the ACM server of MC system B.
8\. The ACM server of MC system B sends the group membership update response
to the ACM server of MC system A.
9\. The ACM server of MC system A stores the group membership update response.
If the ACMC of MC system A is not logged on the ACMS of MC system A will
follow the pending request procedure as described in clause 7.1.1.
10\. The ACM server of MC system A sends the group membership update response
to the ACM client of MC system A.
### 7.6.2 Solution evaluation
This solution introduces a procedure for group membership updates by an
authorized user from a partner MC system.
## 7.7 Solution #5: Request to add users for migration to a partner MC system
### 7.7.1 Solution description
#### 7.7.1.1 General
This solution addresses the following aspects:
\- Key issue 3 - change user configuration
#### 7.7.1.2 Information flows
##### 7.7.1.2.1 User configuration request
Table 7.7.1.2.1-1 describes the information flow of the user configuration
request sent from the primary ACMC to the partner ACMS(s) and, if required,
the relevant partner ACMC(s).
Table 7.7.1.2.1-1: User configuration request
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +==========================+==============+==========================+ | MC service ID | M | The identity of the MC | | | | service user at the | | | | primary MC system who | | | | triggers the information | | | | update. | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Functional alias | O | The functional alias of | | | | the MC service user at | | | | the primary MC system | | | | who triggers the | | | | information update. | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | MC service ID | O | The identity of the MC | | | | service user at the | | | (see NOTE 1) | partner MC system | | | | towards which the | | | | information update is | | | | sent | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Functional alias | O | The functional alias of | | | | the MC service user at | | | (see NOTE 1) | the partner MC system | | | | towards which the | | | | information update is | | | | sent | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | MC service ID list | M | Set of identities of the | | | | migrating MC service | | | | user(s). | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Request category | O | A set of request | | | | notification | | | | identifiers, e.g. high, | | | | medium, low for alerting | | | | partner MC system of | | | | specific urgencies. | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Request duration | O | A set of time and date | | | | information for each MC | | | | service user to inform | | | | the partner MC system | | | | when the user is | | | | expected to attain | | | | service at the partner | | | | MC system and for how | | | | long that MC service | | | | user is expected to | | | | receive service(s). | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Additional Information | O | Additional set of MC | | (see NOTE 2) | | service user or UE | | | | identification | | | | information, such as | | | | labels, hardware UE | | | | identifiers or other | | | | identifying information, | | | | which may include device | | | | descriptions and user | | | | capability information. | | | | This information is | | | | linked to a particular | | | | MC service user and/or | | | | UE. | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | NOTE 1: Either the MC | | | | service ID or the | | | | functional alias must be | | | | present. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Further details | | | | on what elements need to | | | | be included in this | | | | message are FFS | | | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
##### 7.7.1.2.2 User configuration response
Table 7.7.1.2.2-1 describes the information flow of the user configuration
response sent from a primary ACMS to a primary ACMC or a partner ACMC to a
partner ACMS and primary ACMS, ACMC.
Table 7.7.1.2.2-1: User configuration response
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +=============================+========+=============================+ | MC service ID | M | The identity of the MC | | | | service user at the partner | | | | MC system which handled the | | | | received update. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Functional alias | O | The functional alias of the | | | | MC service user at the | | | | partner MC system which | | | | handled the received | | | | update. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | MC service ID list | M | Set of MC service IDs used | | | | in the primary MC system of | | | | the migrating MC service | | | | user(s) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | MC service ID list | M | Set of MC service IDs of | | (see NOTE) | | the migrating MC service | | | | user(s) created by the | | | | partner MC system of the | | | | migrating MC service user, | | | | corresponding to the MC | | | | service IDs above. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | MC service user profile | M | Set of MC service user | | | | profiles that corresponds | | | | to each MC service ID in | | | | the list above. | | | | | | | | The user profile contains | | | | the initial UE | | | | configuration to access the | | | | partner MC system as | | | | defined in table A.6-1 of | | | | 3GPP TS 23.280 [5], and | | | | limited information for | | | | migration for each MC | | | | service user. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Response | M | Result information of the | | | | user configuration request. | | | | When sent within the | | | | primary MC system, this IE | | | | contains the result of the | | | | authorization check. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | NOTE: The primary MC system | | | | of the migrated MC service | | | | user keeps a mapping of the | | | | MC service IDs used by MC | | | | service user(s) in the | | | | partner MC system(s). | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
#### 7.7.1.3 Procedure
The procedure for an authorized MC service user in a primary MC system to
request a partner MC system to authorize a list of MC user IDs from its MC
System to migrate to that partner MC System is shown in figure 7.7.1.3-1.
Pre-conditions
\- The primary and partner MC system(s) are configured to accept connections
from relevant ACMCs via the respective ACMSs in each of the connected MC
service system(s) and have been configured and authorized successfully to
allow exchange of administrative configuration information
\- The relevant ACMC(s) and ACMS connection authorizations have been
established successfully
\- The primary ACMC(s) have access to the MC service user database in the
primary MC system -- not shown in the procedure below for simplicity reasons
\- When a functional alias is used as the target of the request by an ACM
client in the primary MC system, it is required that the primary ACM server
has subscribed to the MC service functional alias controlling server within
the primary MC system, and that the partner ACM server has subscribed to the
MC service functional alias controlling server within the partner MC system.
Figure 7.7.1.3-1: User configuration request in partner MC system
1\. The primary ACMC sends user configuration request to the primary ACMS,
requesting to authorize a list of MC users from the primary MC System to
migrate to the partner MC System.
2\. The primary ACMS performs an authorization check to verify that the MC
service user is authorized to perform this action. A successful authorization
check results in the user configuration request being forwarded to the
relevant partner ACMS.
3\. The primary ACMS sends the user configuration request to the partner ACMS.
NOTE 1: Step 3 is not followed if the authorization was unsuccessful.
> 4\. The partner ACMS sends a process indication to the primary MC system,
> and stores, verifies and assesses the incoming request.
>
> 4a. Based on local policy, the partner ACMS may automatically handle the
> request as described in clause 7.1.2 and send a response to the primary ACMS
> (i.e. perform step 8).
>
> 4b. Otherwise, the ACM server requests verification by an ACM client,
> following the pending request procedure in clause 7.1.1 if the user is not
> logged on, and steps 5, 6 and 7. If the request targets a functional alias
> the ACM server resolves the functional alias (based on the current state of
> the functional alias) and proceeds as follows:
>
> \- if the functional alias is active for one ACM client, the request is sent
> to the ACM client;
>
> \- if the functional alias is active for more than one ACM client, the ACM
> server sends the request to one of these ACM clients based on the local
> policy;
\- if the functional alias is not currently active, the ACM server stores the
request.
5\. The partner ACMS sends the stored user configuration request to the
partner ACMC.
6\. The authorized MC service user of partner MC system checks the content of
the user configuration request and decides whether to approve it or not. The
authorized user in the partner MC system takes whatever actions are needed to
apply the configurations. The actions within the partner MC system to apply
the configurations are outside the scope of the 3GPP specifications.
7\. The partner ACMC sends user configuration response to the partner ACMS.
8\. The partner ACMS sends user configuration response to the primary ACMS.
9\. The primary ACMS stores the user configuration response. If the primary
ACMC is not logged on the primary ACMS will follow the pending request
procedure as described in clause 7.1.1.
10\. The primary ACM S sends the user configuration response to the primary
ACMC.
### 7.7.2 Solution evaluation
This solution introduces a solution to request to add users for migration to a
partner MC system. The solution returns to the primary system the status of
the request, and all necessary information that is needed in the primary MC
system to configure the migrating users.
## 7.8 Solution #6: Request to remove users for migration from a partner MC
system
### 7.8.1 Solution description
7.8.1.1 General
This solution addresses the following aspects of Key issue 3 -- Change user
configuration.
When certain users no longer are needed for migration to a partner system,
there should be a means for an authorized user in the primary MC system to
request that certain users be removed from migration access in the partner MC
system. This maintenance activity is necessary, as once users are added for
migration, it cannot be assumed that their migration access will be
indefinite.
#### 7.8.1.2 Information flows
##### 7.8.1.2.1 Remove user configuration request
Table 7.8.1.2.1-1 describes the information flow of the remove user
configuration request sent from a primary MC system ACM client to a partner MC
system ACM client.
Table 7.8.1.2.1-1: Remove user configuration request
**Information element** **Status** **Description**
* * *
MC service ID M The identity of the authorized user in the primary MC system
who is sending the remove user configuration request. Functional alias O The
functional alias of the MC service user at the primary MC system who triggers
the Group information provision request. MC service ID O (see NOTE) The
identity of the authorized user in the partner MC system that is the target of
the request. Functional alias O (see NOTE) The functional alias of the MC
service user at the partner MC system towards which the Group information
provision request is sent MC service ID list M The list of users in the
partner MC system that are being requested to be removed for migration.
Additional information list O Additional information describing the reason for
removing each requested user in the list for migration from the primary MC
system to the partner MC system. NOTE: Either the MC service ID or the
functional alias must be present.
##### 7.8.1.2.2 Remove user configuration response
Table 7.8.1.2.2-1 describes the information flow of the remove user
configuration response sent from from a partner MC system ACM client to a
primary MC system ACM client.
Table 7.8.1.2.2-1: Remove user configuration response
**Information element** **Status** **Description**
* * *
MC service ID M The identity of the authorized user in the partner MC system
who is sending the remove user configuration response. Functional alias O The
functional alias of the MC service user at the partner MC system who is
sending the remove user configuration response. MC service ID O (see NOTE) The
identity of the authorized user in the primary MC system that is the target of
the response. Functional alias O (see NOTE) The functional alias of the MC
service user in the primary MC system that is the target of the response. MC
service ID list M The list of users in the partner MC system that were
requested to be removed for migration. Response M Result information for each
user in the list for removal. Success or fail. Reason O Additional information
that explains the response for each user in the list. NOTE: Either the MC
service ID or the functional alias must be present
#### 7.8.1.3 Remove user configuration request from a partner MC system
The procedure for an authorized MC service user in the primary MC system, that
is sent to an authorized user in the partner MC system, to request that
certain users be removed from migration access in the partner MC system is
shown in figure 7.8.1.3-1.
Pre-conditions
> \- The primary MC system and the partner MC system are interconnected.
>
> \- The MC service user in the primary MC system is authorized to request a
> list of MC service users be removed from the partner MC system for migration
> from the primary MC system.
>
> \- At the start of the procedure the target authorized user in the partner
> MC System is logged on.
>
> \- The users that are targetted to be removed by this procedure are no
> longer migrated to the partner MC system. The need for these users to
> migrate to the partner MC system no longer exists.
>
> \- When a functional alias is used as the target of the request by an ACM
> client in the primary MC system, it is required that the primary ACM server
> has subscribed to the MC service functional alias controlling server within
> the primary MC system, and that the partner ACM server has subscribed to the
> MC service functional alias controlling server within the partner MC system.
Figure 7.8.1.3-1: Remove user configuration request from a partner MC system
> 1\. The ACM client in the primary MC system sends a remove user
> configuration request to the ACM server in the primary MC system. This
> request includes a list of MC service users to be removed for migration
> access in the partner MC system.
>
> 2\. The ACM server in the primary MC system validates whether the MC service
> user is authorized for the request.
>
> 3\. The ACM server in the primary MC system sends the remove user
> configuration request to the ACM server in the partner MC system.
>
> 4\. The partner ACMS sends a process indication to the primary MC system,
> and stores, verifies and assesses the incoming request.
>
> 4a. Based on local policy, the partner ACMS may automatically handle the
> request as described in clause 7.1.2 and send a response to the primary ACMS
> (i.e. perform step 8).
>
> 4b. Otherwise, the ACM server requests verification by an ACM client,
> following the pending request procedure in clause 7.1.1 if the user is not
> logged on, and steps 5, 6 and 7. If the request targets a functional alias
> the ACM server resolves the functional alias (based on the current state of
> the functional alias) and proceeds as follows:
>
> \- if the functional alias is active for one ACM client, the request is sent
> to the ACM client;
>
> \- if the functional alias is active for more than one ACM client, the ACM
> server sends the request to one of these ACM clients based on the local
> policy;
>
> \- if the functional alias is not currently active, the ACM server stores
> the request.
>
> 5\. The ACM server in the partner MC System sends the remove user
> configuration request to the ACM client in the partner MC system.
>
> 6\. The authorized MC service user of partner MC system checks the content
> of the request and decides whether to approve it or not. The authorized MC
> service user in the partner MC system takes whatever actions are needed to
> remove the requested user from migration access to the partner MC system
> from the primary MC system. The actions within the partner MC system to
> remove users are outside the scope of the 3GPP specifications.
>
> 7\. The ACM client of the partner MC system sends a remove user
> configuration response to the ACM server in the partner MC system. The
> target of this response is the original MC service user in the primary MC
> system that sent the remove user configuration request.
>
> 8\. The ACM server in the partner MC system sends the remove user
> configuration response to the ACM server in the primary MC system.
>
> 9\. The ACM server in the primary MC system stores the remove user
> configuration response. If the primary ACMC is not logged on the primary
> ACMS will follow the pending request procedure as described in clause 7.1.1.
>
> 10\. The ACM server in the primary MC system sends the remove user
> configuration response to the ACM client in the primary MC system.
>
> 11\. The authorized MC service user in the primary MC system takes whatever
> actions are needed (if any) to update the user profiles in the primary MC
> system for those users that no longer have migration access to the partner
> MC system.
### 7.8.2 Solution evaluation
This solution provides a means for an authorized user in the primary MC system
to request that certain users be removed from migration access in the partner
MC system. Such a solution is needed because once users are added for
migration, it cannot be assumed that their migration access to the partner MC
system will be indefinite.
## 7.9 Solution #7: Update MC service UE initial configuration
### 7.9.1 Solution description
#### 7.9.1.1 General
This solution addresses the following aspects:
\- Key issue 3 - change user configuration
\- Key issue 5 -- Service configuration data
This solution enables an authorized user to provide configuration data to a
partner MC system needed to update the initial MC service UE configuration
data to be stored in an MC service UE enabling migration to a partner MC
system. The initial MC service configuration is a pre-condition for
authentication and authorization for MC services in a partner MC system.
Initial MC service UE configuration data can be exchanged between the MC
systems using ACMX entities as described in the following procedure. This
solution allows to keep a partner MC system up to date with regard to the
required initial MC service UE configuration date needed for migration.
#### 7.9.1.2 Information flows
##### 7.9.1.2.1 Update MC service UE initial configuration
Table 7.9.1.2.1-1 describes the information flow from the primary ACMC to the
primary ACMS, and from the primary ACMS to the partner ACMS, for updating
initial MC service UE configuration data information that is required by the
partner MC system for preparing migrating MC service UEs.
Table 7.9.1.2.1-1: Update MC service UE initial configuration
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | **Information element** | **Status** | **Description** | +==========================+==============+==========================+ | MC service ID | M | The identity of the MC | | | | service user at the | | | | primary MC system who | | | | triggers the information | | | | update. | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Functional alias | O | The functional alias of | | | | the MC service user at | | | | the primary MC system | | | | who triggers the | | | | information update. | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | MC service ID | O | The identity of the MC | | | | service user at the | | | (see NOTE 1) | partner MC system | | | | towards which the | | | | information update is | | | | sent | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Functional alias | O | The functional alias of | | | | the MC service user at | | | (see NOTE 1) | the partner MC system | | | | towards which the | | | | information update is | | | | sent | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | MC service ID list | M | Set of MC service IDs of | | | | the migrating MC service | | | | users that belong to the | | | | primary MC system. | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | MC service UE initial | M | This information element | | configuration data (see | | contains the information | | NOTE 2) | | as specified in table | | | | A.6-1 of 3GPP TS | | | | 23.280 [5] | | | | corresponding to the MC | | | | service IDs above. | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | NOTE 1: Either the MC | | | | service ID or the | | | | functional alias must be | | | | present. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The MC service | | | | UE label defined in TS | | | | 23.280 [5], Annex 6 is | | | | sent in this information | | | | element only in case the | | | | request is targeting a | | | | certain MC service | | | | UE(s), otherwise this | | | | information is not | | | | present. | | | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
##### 7.9.1.2.2 Update MC service UE initial configuration response
Table 7.9.1.2.2-1 describes the information flow from the partner ACMC to the
partner ACMS and from partner ACMS to primary ACMS.
Table 7.9.1.2.2-1: Update MC service UE initial configuration response
**Information element** **Status** **Description**
* * *
MC service ID M The identity of the MC service user at the partner MC system
which handled the received update. Functional alias O The functional alias of
the MC service user at the partner MC system which handled the received
update. Result M Result information of the update MC service UE initial
configuration.
#### 7.9.1.3 Procedure
The procedure for an authorized MC service user in a primary MC system to
update the partner MC system with the initial MC service UE configuration data
information is shown in figure 7.9.1.3-1.
Pre-conditions
\- The primary and partner MC system(s) are configured to accept connections
from relevant ACMCs via the respective ACMSs in each of the connected MC
service system(s) and have been configured and authorized successfully to
allow exchange of administrative configuration information
\- The relevant ACMC(s) and ACMS connection authorizations have been
established successfully
\- The set of MC service IDs and the MC service UE initial configuration of
the migrating MC service users have been already sent by the primary MC system
to the partner MC system, as specified in solution #5.
\- When a functional alias is used as the target of the request by an ACM
client in the primary MC system, it is required that the primary ACM server
has subscribed to the MC service functional alias controlling server within
the primary MC system, and that the partner ACM server has subscribed to the
MC service functional alias controlling server within the partner MC system.
Figure 7.9.1.3-1: Update MC service UE initial configuration
1\. The primary ACMC sends an update MC service UE initial configuration to
the primary ACMS, providing the initial MC service UE configuration data as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.280 [5], Annex 6 to the primary MC System.
2\. The primary ACMS performs an authorization check to verify that the MC
service user is authorized to perform this action. A successful authorization
check results in the Update MC service UE initial configuration being
forwarded to the relevant partner ACMS. If the authorization check is failed
the next steps are not followed
3\. The primary ACMS sends the update MC service UE initial configuration to
the partner ACMS.
4\. The partner ACMS processes the incoming update. Based on local policy, the
partner ACMS may automatically handle the request and send an update MC
service UE initial configuration response to the primary ACMS. Otherwise the
ACM server should request verification by an ACM client.
If the request targets a functional alias the ACM server resolves the
functional alias (based on the current state of the functional alias) and
proceeds as follows:
> \- if the functional alias is active for one ACM client, the request is sent
> to the ACM client;
>
> \- if the functional alias is active for more than one ACM client, the ACM
> server sends the request to one of these ACM clients based on the local
> policy;
>
> \- if the functional alias is not currently active, the ACM server stores
> the request.
5\. The partner ACMS may send a process pending indication to the primary MC
system.
NOTE 1: There may be a considerable pause between step 4 and 7.
6\. The partner ACMS forwards the stored update MC service UE initial
configuration to the partner ACMC.
7\. The authorized MC service user of partner MC system processes the received
update MC service UE initial configuration.
NOTE 2: It is out of the scope of this document how the received initial MC
service UE configuration data is applied to MC service UEs (before migration).
8\. The partner ACMC sends update MC service UE initial configuration response
to the partner ACMS.
9\. The partner ACMS sends update MC service UE initial configuration response
to the primary ACMS.
10\. The primary ACMC stores the update MC service UE initial configuration
response.
NOTE 3:There may be a considerable pause between step 10 and 11.
11\. The primary ACMS forwards the update MC service UE initial configuration
response to the primary ACMC.
### 7.9.2 Solution evaluation
This solution enables an authorized user of the primary MC system to provide
an update of the MC service UE initial configuration to be stored in the MC
service user profiles in a partner system, enabling migration to the primary
MC system. The solution addresses key issue 3 and key issue 5.
## 7.10 Solution #8: MC service user profile update request while receiving MC
service from a partner MC system
### 7.10.1 Solution description
#### 7.10.1.1 General
This solution addresses the following aspects:
\- Key issue 5 -- Service configuration data
For an MC service user, when migrating and receiving MC service from a partner
MC system, it will use the user profile resulted from profile exchange between
the primary and partner MC systems as specified in 3GPP TS 23.280, clause
10.1.4.3.2. This solution enables an authorized user in primary MC system to
request changes to MC service user profile, while these user(s) are migrated
to a partner MC system.
The update of MC service user profile can be done between the MC systems using
ACMX entities as described in the following procedure.
#### 7.10.1.2 Information flows
##### 7.10.1.2.1 MC service user profile update request
Table 7.10.1.2.1-1 describes the information flow from the primary ACMC to the
primary ACMS, and from the primary ACMS to the partner ACMS.
Table 7.10.1.2.1-1: MC service user profile update request
**Information element** **Status** **Description**
* * *
MC service ID M The identity of the MC service user at the primary MC system
who triggers the request. Functional alias O The functional alias of the MC
service user at the primary MC system triggers request. MC service ID O (see
NOTE) The identity of the MC service user at the partner MC system towards
which the request is sent Functional alias O (see NOTE) The functional alias
of the MC service user at the partner MC system towards which the request is
sent MC service ID M MC service ID of the migrated MC service user, which has
been created by the partner MC system. MC service user profile M The suggested
updated MC service user profile on the partner MC system. Additional
Information O Additional information regarding the suggested updated MC
service user profile on the partner MC system. NOTE: Either the MC service ID
or the functional alias must be present.
##### 7.10.1.2.2 MC service user profile update response
Table 7.10.1.2.2-1 describes the information flow from the partner ACMC to the
partner ACMS and from partner ACMS to primary ACMS.
Table 7.10.1.2.2-1: MC service user profile update response
**Information element** **Status** **Description**
* * *
MC service ID M The identity of the MC service user at the partner MC system
which handled the received request. Functional alias O The functional alias of
the MC service user at the partner MC system which handled the received
request. MC service ID M MC service ID of the migrated MC service user. Result
M Result information of the MC service user profile update request,
#### 7.10.1.3 Procedure
The procedure for an authorized MC service user in a primary MC system to
request MC service user profile update from a partner MC system is shown in
figure 7.10.1.3-1.
Pre-conditions
\- The primary and partner MC system(s) are configured to accept connections
from relevant ACMCs via the respective ACMSs in each of the connected MC
service system(s) and have been configured and authorized successfully to
allow exchange of administrative configuration information
\- The relevant ACMC(s) and ACMS connection authorizations have been
established successfully
\- The authorized user at the primary MC system needs to update the MC service
user profile, for an MC service user already migrated and receiving services
in a partner MC system.
\- When a functional alias is used as the target of the request by an ACM
client in the primary MC system, it is required that the primary ACM server
has subscribed to the MC service functional alias controlling server within
the primary MC system, and that the partner ACM server has subscribed to the
MC service functional alias controlling server within the partner MC system.
Figure 7.10.1.3-1: MC service user profile update
1\. The primary ACMC sends MC service user profile update request to the
primary ACMS providing the required changes for the MC service user that is
migrated to the partner MC System.
2\. The primary ACMS performs an authorization check to verify that the MC
service user is authorized to perform this action. A successful authorization
check results in the MC user profile update request being forwarded to the
relevant partner ACMS. If the authorization was unsuccessful, step 3 is not
followed and the procedure is stopped.
3\. The primary ACMS sends the MC service user profile update request to the
partner ACMS.
> 4\. The partner ACMS sends a process indication to the primary MC system,
> and stores, verifies and assesses the incoming request.
>
> 4a. Based on local policy, the partner ACMS may automatically handle the
> request as described in clause 7.1.2 and send a response to the primary ACMS
> (i.e. perform step 8).
>
> 4b. Otherwise, the ACM server requests verification by an ACM client,
> following the pending request procedure in clause 7.1.1 if the user is not
> logged on, and steps 5, 6 and 7. If the request targets a functional alias
> the ACM server resolves the functional alias (based on the current state of
> the functional alias) and proceeds as follows:
>
> \- if the functional alias is active for one ACM client, the request is sent
> to the ACM client;
>
> \- if the functional alias is active for more than one ACM client, the ACM
> server sends the request to one of these ACM clients based on the local
> policy;
\- if the functional alias is not currently active, the ACM server stores the
request.
5\. The partner ACMS forwards the stored MC service user profile update
request to the partner ACMC.
6\. The authorized MC service user of partner MC system checks the content of
the MC service user profile update request and decides whether to approve it
or not. The authorized user in the partner MC system takes whatever actions
are needed to apply the MC service user profile update. The actions within the
partner MC system to apply this configuration are outside the scope of the
3GPP specifications.
7\. The partner ACMC sends MC service user profile update response to the
partner ACMS.
8\. The partner ACMS sends MC service user profile update response to the
primary ACMS.
9\. The primary ACMS stores the MC service user profile update response. If
the primary ACMC is not logged on the primary ACMS will follow the pending
request procedure as described in clause 7.1.1.
10\. The primary ACMS forwards the MC service user profile update response to
the primary ACMC.
### 7.10.2 Solution evaluation
This solution enables an authorized user in the primary MC system to request
an update to the MC service user profile while the MC user is migrated and
served by the partner MC system. This solution addresses key issue 5.
## 7.11 Solution #9: Provide Interconnection Group IDs
### 7.11.1 Solution description
#### 7.11.1.1 General
This solution addresses the following aspects:
\- Key issue 4 -- Group configuration data
"The MC service group is configured in the MC service user profiles ... "
This solutions enables an authorized user to provide a list of interconnection
group ID(s) to a selected authorized user of a partner MC system.
#### 7.11.1.2 Information flows
##### 7.11.1.2.1 Group information provision request
Table 7.11.1.2.1-1 describes the information flow of the Group information
provision request sent from the primary ACMC to the partner ACMS(s) and
partner ACMC(s).
Table 7.11.1.2.1-1: Group information provision request
* * *
**Information element** **Status** **Description** MC service ID M The
identity of the MC service user at the primary MC system who triggers the
Group information provision request. Functional alias O The functional alias
of the MC service user at the primary MC system who triggers the Group
information provision request. MC service ID O (see NOTE) The identity of the
MC service user at the partner MC system towards which the Group information
provision request is sent Functional alias O (see NOTE) The functional alias
of the MC service user at the partner MC system towards which the Group
information provision request is sent MC service group ID list M A list of one
or more MC service group IDs Group description per MC service group ID O A
text description indicating the intended operational use for every MC service
group ID in the list NOTE: Either the MC service ID or the functional alias
must be present.
* * *
##### 7.11.1.2.2 Group information provision response
Table 7.11.1.2.2-1 describes the information flow of the Group information
provision response from a partner ACMC to a partner ACMS, the primary ACMS and
the primary ACMC.
Table 7.11.1.2.2-1: Group information provision response
* * *
**Information element** **Status** **Description** MC service ID M The
identity of the MC service user at the partner MC system who generates the
Group information provision response. Functional alias O The functional alias
of the MC service user at the partner MC system who generates the Group
information provision response. Provision status M Indicates the provisioning
result
* * *
#### 7.11.1.3 Procedure
##### 7.11.1.3.1 Authorized user providing interconnection group ID(s) to
authorized user of a partner MC system
The procedure, which enables an authorized MC service user of a primary MC
system to provide a list of interconnection group ID(s) to a selected
authorized user of a partner MC system, is shown in figure 7.11.1.3.1-1.
Pre-conditions
> \- primary MC system and partner MC system are interconnected
>
> \- both MC systems have implemented an ACMS functionality
>
> \- the primary MC system is the MC service group home system for one or more
> interconnection groups
>
> \- The MC service user of the primary MC system is authorized to provide a
> list of interconnection group IDs to a selected authorized user of the
> partner MC system .
>
> \- When a functional alias is used as the target of the request by an ACM
> client in the primary MC system, it is required that the primary ACM server
> has subscribed to the MC service functional alias controlling server within
> the primary MC system, and that the partner ACM server has subscribed to the
> MC service functional alias controlling server within the partner MC system.
Figure 7.11.1.3.1-1: Group information provision to an authorized user of a
partner system
> 1\. The ACM client in the primary MC system sends a group information
> provision request to the ACM server in the primary MC system, providing a
> list of interconnection group IDs and the ID of the selected authorized user
> in the partner MC system.
>
> 2\. The ACM server of the primary MC system checks whether the MC service
> user at ACM client is authorized for the request.
>
> 3\. The ACM server of the primary MC system forwards the group information
> provision request to the ACM server in the partner MC system.
>
> 4\. The partner ACMS sends a process indication to the primary MC system,
> and stores, verifies and assesses the incoming request.
>
> 4a. Based on local policy, the partner ACMS may automatically handle the
> request as described in clause 7.1.2 and send a response to the primary ACMS
> (i.e. perform step 8).
>
> 4b. Otherwise, the ACM server requests verification by an ACM client,
> following the pending request procedure in clause 7.1.1 if the user is not
> logged on, and steps 5, 6 and 7. If the request targets a functional alias
> the ACM server resolves the functional alias (based on the current state of
> the functional alias) and proceeds as follows:
>
> \- if the functional alias is active for one ACM client, the request is sent
> to the ACM client;
>
> \- if the functional alias is active for more than one ACM client, the ACM
> server sends the request to one of these ACM clients based on the local
> policy;
>
> \- if the functional alias is not currently active, the ACM server stores
> the request.
>
> 5\. The ACM server of the partner MC system forwards the stored group
> information provision request to the ACM client of the partner MC system.
>
> 6\. The selected authorized user of the partner MC System processes the
> interconnection group IDs, e.g. by saving the information for future use.
> The authorized user in the partner MC system takes whatever actions are
> needed to handle the request. The actions taken within the partner MC system
> are outside the scope of the 3GPP specifications.
>
> 7\. The ACM client of the partner MC system sends a group information
> provision response to the ACM server of the partner MC system.
>
> 8\. The ACM server of the partner MC system forwards the group information
> provision response to the ACM server in the primary MC system.
>
> 9\. The ACM server of the primary MC system stores the group information
> provision response. If the primary ACMC is not logged on the primary ACMS
> will follow the pending request procedure as described in clause 7.1.1.
>
> 10\. The ACM server of the primary MC system forwards the group information
> provision response to the ACM client of primary MC system, informing the
> authorized user of the primary MC system that the list of interconnection
> group IDs has been provided to the selected authorized user of the partner
> MC system.
### 7.11.2 Solution evaluation
This solution enables an authorized user from a primary MC system to provide
interconnection group IDs to a selected authorized user of a partner MC
system.
# 8 Evaluation
## 8.1 Overview
All the key issues and solutions specified in this technical report are listed
in table 8.1-1. It includes the mapping of the key issues to the solutions and
corresponding solution evaluations. In addition, table 8.1-1 lists the impacts
to other working groups that will need consideration during the normative
phase.
Table 8.1-1: Key issue and solution evaluation
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Key issues** | **Solution** | **Evaluation** | **Dependency | | | | | on other | | | |**(subclause | working | | | | reference)**| groups** | +================+================+================+================+ | Key issue 1: | Solution #1: | 7.3.2 | - | | functional | Functional | | | | architecture | architecture | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Solution #2: | 7.4.7 | - | | | Enhancement to | | | | | the MC service | | | | | functional | | | | | architecture | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue 2 -- | - | | - | | Identification | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue 3 -- | Solution #5: | 7.7.2 | - | | Change user | Request to add | | | | configuration | users for | | | | | migration to a | | | | | partner MC | | | | | system | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Solution #6: | 7.8.2 | - | | | Request to | | | | | remove users | | | | | for migration | | | | | from a partner | | | | | MC system | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Solution #7: | 7.9.2 | - | | | Update MC | | | | | service UE | | | | | initial | | | | | configuration | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue 4 -- | Solution #4: | 7.6.2 | - | | Group | Group | | | | configuration | configuration | | | | data | change | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Solution #9: | 7.11.2 | - | | | Provide | | | | | I | | | | | nterconnection | | | | | Group IDs | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue 5 -- | Solution #7: | 7.9.2 | - | | Service | Update MC | | | | configuration | service UE | | | | data | initial | | | | | configuration | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Solution #8: | 7.10.2 | - | | | MC service | | | | | user profile | | | | | update request | | | | | while | | | | | receiving MC | | | | | service from a | | | | | partner MC | | | | | system | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue 6: | Solution #3: | 7.5.2 | SA3 | | authorization | ACMC | | | | | authorization | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue 7: | - | | - | | Secure | | | | | exchange and | | | | | topology | | | | | hiding | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 8.2 Overall evaluation of key issue#1
Solution #1 and solution #2 together fulfil the needs of key issue #1.
Solution#1 describes the basic functional model required to support the
administrative configuration exchange between MC systems. It introduces the
new entities ACM client and ACM server in charge of performing the required
actions and describes their functionalities.
Solution #2 provides the new common services core functions for administrative
configuration management, as an integrated functional entity of the
configuration management client (ACMC), and as an integrated functional entity
of the configuration management server (ACMS). It also uses the
interconnection interface and reference points as specified in TS 23.280 [5]
for the transfer of ACMX between the MC systems.
## 8.3 Overall evaluation of key issue#2
The solutions in this study use the MC service user identities defined and
used for common services in an MC system (i.e. MC service ID and functional
alias) as specified under clause 8 in 3GPP TS 23.280 [5].
## 8.4 Overall evaluation of key issue#3
Solution #5, solution #6 and solution #7 provide solutions for adding users
for migration to a partner MC system, updating the MC service user
configuration information and removing certain users from migration access in
the partner MC system.
## 8.5 Overall evaluation of key issue#4
Solution #4 and solution #9 provide procedures for exchanging and updating the
group configuration information between interconnected MC systems.
## 8.6 Overall evaluation of key issue#5
Solution#7 and solution #8 provide procedures for updating and exchanging
service configuration data for an MC service user before, and after the MC
user has migrated and is served by the partner MC system.
## 8.7 Overall evaluation of key issue#6
Solution#3 provides the general authorization concept and the necessary
configurations to enable performing administrative configuration management
exchange between interconnected MC systems.
## 8.8 Overall evaluation of key issue#7
Solution #2 provides an architecture solution that reuses existing interfaces
and functional entities that utilize technical security mechanisms that
already exist to communicate between the involved MC systems while hiding the
network topology.
The procedures in solutions #4 through #9 enable the authorized user in the MC
system, where the changes are to be applied, the control to accept or reject
the changes before they are applied.
# 9 Conclusions
This technical report fulfils the objective to develop solutions for sharing
of administrative configuration between interconnected MC service systems. It
identifies enhancements to be included in the technical specifications for MC
services and in the common functional architecture.
The results from the study will be considered for follow-up normative work in
Rel-19 as follows:
> \- Definition of terms and abbreviations captured in clause 3 will be
> reused;
>
> \- The common ACM procedures in clause 7.1 will be reused;
>
> \- The following key issues (clause 5) and individual solutions (clause 7)
> are considered to be the candidate solutions with necessary enhancements as
> appropriate:
>
> \- For key issue#1, solution #1 provides an overview of the required
> functional model for ACM, and solution#2 applies this enhancement to the
> existing functional model in TS 23.280 [5].
>
> \- For key issue#3, solution#5, solution#6 and solution#7.
>
> \- For key issue#4, solution#4 and solution#9.
>
> \- For key issue#5, solution#7 and solution#8.
\- For key issue#6, solution#3.
#