# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report which identifies SEAL functionality
to support application capability exposure to general purpose servers or 3rd
party IoT applications via IoT Platforms. Key issues and corresponding
solutions necessary to ensure efficient use and deployment of IoT Platforms in
the 5G network are included.
The study takes into consideration the existing work for Core Network exposure
in 3GPP TS 23.502 [2] and provides recommendations for normative work.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TR 23.503: \"Policy and charging control framework for the 5G System
(5GS)\".
[4] 3GPP TR 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.522: \"5G System; Network Exposure Function Northbound APIs\"
[6] 3GPP TS 23.434: \"Service Enabler Architecture Layer for Verticals (SEAL);
Functional architecture and information flows\"
[7] 3GPP TS 23.682: \"Architecture enhancements to facilitate communications
with packet data networks and applications\"
> [8] 3GPP TS 23.222: \"Functional architecture and information flows to
> support Common API Framework for 3GPP Northbound APIs; Stage 2\".
>
> [9] 3GPP TR 23.700-98: \"Study on Enhanced architecture for enabling Edge
> Applications\".
>
> [10] 3GPP TS 29.122: \" T8 reference point for Northbound APIs\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
Internet of Things (IoT): Network supporting interconnection of devices,
machines, and low complexity entities.
IoT Application: An application catering to one or more vertical domains which
includes communication functionality for the Internet of Things.
IoT Client: An entity that provides the client-side functionalities
corresponding to a specific IoT Application.
IoT Platform: An entity hosting a collection of services and enabling
capabilities that supports IoT Applications.
IoT Platform service: A generic name for a common service or enabling
capability provided by an IoT Platform.
IoT Platform Provider: A mobile network operator or a 3rd party service
provider offering IoT Platform services to multiple 3rd party service
providers or ASPs.
IoT Server: An entity that provides the server side functionalities
corresponding to a specific IoT Application.
NOTE: The normative phase work will determine the mappings between these
entities and SEAL entities.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ASM Application Service Management
ASP Application Service Provider
BDT Background Data Transfer
CAPIF Common API Framework for northbound APIs
CIoT Cellular IoT
CP Control Plane
CPP Communication Patterns Parameters
MIoT Massive IoT
NEF Network Exposure Function
NIDD Non-IP Data Delivery
SEAL Service Enablement Application Layer
SCEF Service Capability Exposure Function
TAU _Tracking Area Update_
VAL Vertical Application Layer
# 4 Key Issues
## 4.1 Key issue #1: Background Data Transfer negotiation
The cellular network provides background data transfer (BDT) capabilities
which save network resources and reduce device energy consumption. The 5GS
provides procedures for BDT negotiation services as described in 3GPP TS
23.502 [2] clause 4.16.7. The corresponding NEF services (see 3GPP TS 23.502
[2] clause 5.2.6.6) allow the servers to provide parameters for requesting or
optimizing the background data traffic for a set of UEs.
Scenarios in which an IoT Platform interfaces with the Core Network to request
future Background Data Transfer (BDT) Policies on behalf of IoT Servers need
to be investigated further. In such scenarios the IoT Platform Provider
leverages for its services a different business relationship with the MNO than
the ASPs providing the individual IoT Applications. For example, a Smart City
Platform may be configured to understand the reference to a charging rate
based on the agreement with the operator (see 3GPP TS 23.503 [3] clause
6.1.2.4). At the same time, the ASP providing green building IoT applications
hosted by the IoT Platform may rely on no special operator agreements.
In such scenarios, the IoT Servers provide the IoT Platform information such
as expected data volume per UE, preferred time window or optional location,
for a set of targeted IoT Clients. The IoT Platform negotiates future BDT
policies with the Core Network as detailed in 3GPP TS 23.502[2] clause 4.16.7.
Then the relevant information from the selected BDT policy is provided to the
initiating IoT Servers, in order to initiate the data transfer.
Hence, it is required to study:
\- How the SEAL functional model and deployment options may be leveraged for
the implementation of IoT Platforms supporting such scenarios.
\- Whether and how the IoT Platform in this scenario can:
\- determine the reference to the charging rate (based on agreement with the
operator) without exposure of this information to the IoT Servers.
\- aggregate requirements/ requests from multiple IoT Servers resulting in a
single future BDT negotiation request, e.g., when the same group of UEs is
targeted.
\- select a BDT Policy from a set of Possible Transfer Policies provided by
the Core Network, based on IoT Server input.
## 4.2 Key issue #2: Application server monitoring and control of traffic
Clause 31 of 3GPP TS 22.101 [4] has provided requirements for control of
traffic from UE-based applications toward associated server. When an
application on a third-party server or the third-party server itself becomes
congested or fails, the traffic towards that server needs to be controlled to
avoid/mitigate potential issues caused by resulting unproductive use of 3GPP
network resources. Following are some of the requirements:
_The 3GPP network shall be able to control (i.e., block and/or prioritize)
traffic from UEs to an application on a third-party server or the third-party
server itself without affecting traffic to other applications on the third-
party server or to other third-party servers._
_The 3GPP network shall be able to receive a status indication from the third-
party server when an application on it is experiencing congestion or failure,
and when normal operation resumes. Such a status indication may be sent
periodically, and/or when the status of the application changes._
_The 3GPP network shall be able to detect and monitor a third-party server\'s
operational status e.g., congestion levels, failure, and unavailability of the
third-party server._
Consider a scenario where an IoT application server serves millions of
devices. In an event where the application server\'s response time is
increased due to high traffic congestion at the application server, it is
required to able to control (i.e., block and/or prioritize) the traffic from
the UEs or IoT devices towards the application server.
Hence, it is required to study:
1) How to enhance the enabler layer (e.g., SEAL, CAPIF) to support service
monitoring of third-party application servers?
2) How to monitor a third-party server\'s operational status e.g., congestion
levels, failure, and unavailability of the third-party server? How to
control/influence the traffic when the third-party application server is
experiencing congestion or failure, and when normal operation resumes?
## 4.3 Key issue #3: IoT Platform PSM monitoring and configuration
The cellular network exposes the capabilities for IoT Servers _to provide
network parameters such as: maximum response time, maximum latency, and
suggested number of downlink packets. These parameters may then be used by the
Core Network to derive periodic_ _TAU Timer and Active time for the PSM mode,
or to configure in-network extended buffering._
_IoT Platforms provide services to multiple IoT Servers with different
services for the same UEs using PSM mode. Each IoT Sever is aware only of its
own communication requirements, e.g., communication schedules, delay tolerance
for regular or high-priority messaging. Based on these communication
requirements, some IoT Servers may be able to derive how long the UE should be
unreachable for power saving purposes, or how long the UE should stay active
before returning to PSM. In the meantime, other IoT Servers may be agnostic of
the of underlying network used, therefore unable to derive such information._
_If separate Core Network parameter configurations are derived individually by
each IoT Server for the same UE, the CN determines the final value. However,
this determination does not have any service-level context information. In
some cases, the greatest optimizations are achieved when the calculations take
in consideration the current network parameter configuration, which currently
can be inferred only through the use of device monitoring._
_When extended buffering is employed, the Network Parameter configuration can
also be used by the application layer for retransmission timer configuration._
Scenarios in which an IoT Platform interfaces with the Core Network to provide
optimal configuration of network parameters determined based on the
communication characteristics from multiple IoT Servers need to be
investigated further.
Hence, it is required to study whether and how the needs of multiple IoT
servers can be satisfied via a single SEAL IoT Platform for the following:
\- Capability to determine optimal network parameter values based on
communication characteristics (e.g., communication schedules, delay tolerance)
of services from multiple IoT Servers.
\- Capability to configure device monitoring and receive Monitoring Event
notifications via exposure APIs.
\- Capability to provide the network parameter values (e.g., maximum response
time) via exposure APIs, to the Core Network.
\- Capability to expose the derived network parameter configuration (e.g.,
from monitoring events) to the application layer.
## 4.4 Key issue #4: Configuration of Communication Patterns
Many IoT devices have predicable communication behaviour. The Communication
Pattern Parameters (CPP) Provisioning network exposure API has been introduced
to make this information available to the network for resource planning and
optimizations (see 3GPP 29.522 [5] clause 4.4.5). This capability provides
optimizations for the devices as well, by way of reduction of signalling,
energy saving, fewer sleep/awake transitions, etc.
IoT Servers should be able to provide the IoT Platform information on the
communication behavior of the application(s) supported. In turn, the IoT
platform should be able to aggregate the communication patterns of multiple
applications interacting with the same UE before providing them to the
underlying network.
Given the scale and the importance of this functionality, the CPP Provisioning
capability also supports providing single configurations for UE groups, e.g.,
for support of MIoT. An IoT platform implemented using SEAL services should be
enabled to implement CPP Provisioning for groups of UE, along with performing
group management. However, the IoT Platform needs to be enabled to be provided
with corresponding input by the individual IoT Servers.
Hence, it is required to study:
\- whether and how use of the CPP Provisioning API can be enabled on IoT
Platforms implemented using SEAL services, using configurations provided by
multiple IoT Servers for the same UE.
\- whether and how use of CPP Provisioning API use can be enabled on IoT
Platforms implemented using SEAL services to provide configurations for UE
groups managed via the IoT Platform.
## 4.5 Key issue #5: NIDD configuration
Since Release 13, 3GPP introduced the ability to send data to and from the UE
in NAS messaging though the \"Control Plane (CP) CIoT Optimizations\" feature.
Since no data plane set up is required, using the CP CIoT optimizations
results in a reduced total number of control plane messages that are required
to send short data transactions. CIoT Optimizations include the option of
exchanging NEF-anchored Non-IP Data.
Use of Non-IP Data Delivery (NIDD) requires an initial NEF configuration step,
which includes MTC Provider Information and Reliable Data Service
Configuration, both of which usually require a pre-established relationship
with the MNO. In addition, for the purpose of sending mobile-terminated Group
NIDD messages, the NIDD Configuration procedure is used by the NEF to resolve
the mapping of External Group Identifier to individual UEs. Therefore, an IoT
platform implemented using SEAL services should be enabled to perform NIDD
configuration for UE groups on behalf of the IoT Servers.
Hence, it is required to study whether and how NIDD configuration services by
the IoT Platform implemented using SEAL services, on behalf of one or more IoT
Servers, may be enabled. Configuration of group NIDD services should be also
included in the study.
## 4.6 Key issue #6: Device Triggering services.
Currently, the SEAL specification in 3GPP TS 23.434 [6] does not include
functionality for leveraging the Device Triggering network exposure API.
Typically, commercial IoT Platforms store and maintain a \"digital twin\" of
the device. Such digital twin is accessed and used by the device (e.g., to
publish sensor readings to the IoT Platform or to receive commands from the
IoT Platform) as well as by the IoT Applications to retrieve sensor readings
of a device or to issue commands to a device. This digital twin has several
benefits since it allows the IoT Platform to reduce communication loads and
allows devices to go to sleep. This can be done without impacting the
availability of device information to the IoT Applications.
The communication between the IoT Applications and the device is asynchronous
and is managed by the IoT platform. The IoT platform needs to perform device
triggering when synchronization between the digital twin is needed and the UE
needs to establish connectivity.
Hence, it is required to study whether the IoT Applications should directly
use the existing network exposure capability for device triggering or whether
the IoT Platform should be enhanced to provide device triggering support on
behalf of the IoT Applications.
# 5 Solutions
## 5.1 Solution #1: Application Service Management Service
### 5.1.1 Functional model for application service management
#### 5.1.1.1 General
The Application Service Management (ASM) service provides application service
monitoring and traffic control service. The functional model for the
application service management is based on the generic functional model
specified in clause 6 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [6]. It is organized into functional
entities to describe a functional architecture which addresses the support for
application service management aspects for vertical applications. The on-
network functional model is specified in this clause.
#### 5.1.1.2 On-network functional model description
Figure 5.1.1.2-1 illustrates the generic on-network functional model for
application service management.
Figure 5.1.1.2-1: On-network functional model for application service
management
NOTE: The normative phase work will determine whether and how service-based
interfaces are used in this architecture.
The interface between ASM client and ASM server is ASM-UU interface. The ASM
client interacts with VAL client using ASM-C interface and ASM server
interacts with VAL server using ASM-S interface.
The ASM server communicates with the SCEF via T8 reference point or
communicates with the NEF via N33 reference point to control application
specific traffic from the underlying 3GPP network system.
### 5.1.2 Functional entities description
#### 5.1.2.1 General
The functional entities for application service management SEAL service are
described in the following subclauses.
#### 5.1.2.2 Application service management client
The application service management client acts as a SEAL client for
application service monitoring and traffic control function.
#### 5.1.2.3 Application service management server
The ASM server is a functional entity used to configure one or more
application servers related to 3GPP system information as well as the network.
It also acts as a co-ordination layer in subscribing to the VAL sever and 3GPP
network for any changes in the configuration and inform the other in order to
perform necessary actions (like blocking or controlling traffic).
### 5.1.3 Configuring VAL server
To monitor status of the application service, the ASM server can configure the
VAL server to monitor status information.
Figure 5.1.3-1: Configuring VAL server
1) In order to configure the VAL server, the ASM server sends ASM
Configuration request towards VAL server including all parameters to be
monitored the VAL server. The parameters include average request queue length,
average time to process request, CPU usage, memory usage, etc.
2) Upon received the request, the VAL server sends response and starts
monitoring all activities.
NOTE: It is to be addressed in the normative phase whether configuring VAL
server procedure is required or not.
### 5.1.4 Request-response model
#### 5.1.4.1 ASM server requesting for on-demand status
The ASM server can request the VAL server to provide its status information.
The ASM server may choose to request status information periodically, which
can give the ASM server the possible trend of the VAL server status. Figure
5.1.4.1-1 shows the procedure for the ASM server to request on-demand status
request from the VAL server.
Figure 5.1.4.1-1: ASM server requesting for on-demand status
> 1) Based on configurations such monitoring status information request from
> other entities (e.g., VAL service provider), ASM server initiates the on-
> demand status request towards the VAL server.
>
> 2) The ASM server sends an on-demand status request to the VAL server. The
> request includes the configuration parameters whose status needs to be
> included in the response.
>
> 3) The VAL server immediately responds to the ASM server with a report
> containing status information identified by the ASM server and available to
> the VAL server.
>
> 4) Upon receiving the report, the ASM server updates the monitoring status
> of the VAL Server to the other VAL UE(s), VAL Client(s) or 3GPP network as
> required.
#### 5.1.4.2 ASM Client pushes service experience report to the ASM Server
The ASM client keeps monitoring the different service KPIs as experienced for
the application service. The KPIs include application specific performance
measurements like end-to-end response time, connection bandwidth, request
rate, server availability time, etc. On request from user or VAL client or any
other trigger conditions, the ASM client sends the service experience report
about a VAL server to the ASM server. Figure 5.1.4.2-1 illustrates a scenario
of ASM Client pushes service experience report to the ASM Server.
Pre-condition:
1). ASM client determines to send service experience report based on certain
criteria (e.g. VAL User request, VAL client request, any preconfigured or
explicit configured triggering event, periodic event, like so)
Figure 5.1.4.2-1: ASM Client pushes service experience report to the ASM
Server
1). The ASM client sends Push service experience request to the ASM server.
The request contains service experience report about a VAL server (e.g. end-
to-end response time as experienced by client, connection bandwidth, request
rate by client, VAL server availability, etc) and includes the VAL UE ID, VAL
service ID, VAL server identity for which the report is being sent and time
stamp of the report.
2). Upon receiving the Push service experience request from the ASM client,
the ASM server stores the report in to the database or permanent storage.
3). The ASM server may take further actions based on the analysis of the
report as shared by the ASM client.
> a) Based on service experience report, the ASM server may decide to collect
> additional information from other UEs or ASM clients which use the same VAL
> server (e.g. by using pull service experience procedure as specified in
> clause 5.1.4.3).
4). The ASM server sends Push service experience response to the ASM client.
NOTE: Step 3 and 4 can be performed in parallel.
5). The ASM server may determine the corrective action as specified in clause
5.1.4.4. If the issue is identified with the VAL UE, the ASM server may inform
the corrective actions to be taken by the VAL UE.
#### 5.1.4.3 ASM Server pulls service experience report from the ASM Client
Figure 5.1.4.3-1 illustrates the procedure for the ASM server to pull the
service experience report from the ASM clients. The procedure can be initiated
by the ASM server upon receiving a Push service experience request from an ASM
client or upon receiving a request from application service provider
(application server) to get the service experience report from the clients or
any other event that requires the ASM server to determine the service
experience data.
Figure 5.1.4.3-1: ASM Server pulls service experience report from the ASM
Client
1). The ASM server sends Pull service experience request to the ASM client.
The request contains identity of the specific VAL server for which the service
experience report is required. The request includes the VAL service ID and VAL
server identity for which the report is requested.
2). Upon receiving the Pull service experience request from the ASM server,
the ASM client takes user consent to send the report if the user consent is
not available already.
3). The ASM client sends the Pull service experience response to the ASM
server. The response contains result indicating whether the report is
available or not. If report is available, the response contains service
experience report about a VAL server (e.g. end-to-end response time as
experienced by client, connection bandwidth, request rate by client, VAL
server availability, etc) and includes the VAL UE ID, VAL service ID, VAL
server identity for which the report is being sent and time stamp of the
report.
4). The ASM server stores the service experience report into the database or
permanent storage.
5). The ASM server may takes the corrective action as specified in clause
5.1.4.4.
#### 5.1.4.4 ASM Server determines corrective action
Based on the collective analysis of all reports, the ASM server performs
following actions:
1) Determining the entity producing the issue, i.e. whether the reported issue
is at VAL client or VAL server or 3GPP network.
> NOTE 1: How the ASM server determines whether the issue is at the VAL
> client, VAL server or the 3GPP network is implementation specific
2) Once the entity causing the issue is identified, the ASM Server need to
determine the corrective action for that entity.
> NOTE 2: The ASM server may subscribe for monitoring events (e.g. UE
> reachability, Communication failure, PDU Session Status) to 5GC as specified
> in clause 5.2.6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.502 [2] and may uses the information
> received via notification (along with the service experience reports
> received from ASM client) in determining the entity producing the issue and
> the possible corrective action for that entity.
>
> NOTE 3: ASM server logic and algorithm to determine the corrective action
> based on the entity causing the issue (i.e. issue is at VAL client or VAL
> server or the 3GPP network), is out of scope of this specification and
> implementation specific.
3) ASM server informs the corrective action towards the entity causing the
issue.
NOTE 4: How ASM server indicates the suggestion for action to VAL layer
entities is implementation specific.
### 5.1.5 Subscribe-notify model
#### 5.1.5.1 ASM server subscribes to the monitoring status information
Figure 5.1.5.1-1 shows the procedure for the ASM server to subscribe to the
monitoring status information of the VAL server. The ASM server does not need
to configure the VAL server in advance.
Figure 5.1.5.1-1: ASM server requesting for on-demand status
1) Based on configurations request from other entities to provide monitoring
status information periodically or based on event, ASM server decides to
initiate the monitoring information subscribe request to the VAL server.
2) The ASM server sends a monitoring information subscribe request to the VAL
server. The request includes all parameters to be monitored for UE and VAL
server. The parameters include average request queue length, average time to
process request, CPU usage, memory usage, etc. The request also includes
events when the VAL server needs to send the notification.
3) The VAL server sends a monitoring information subscribe response to the ASM
server containing success or failure of the request.
#### 5.1.5.2 VAL server notifies the monitoring status information
Figure 5.1.5.2-1 shows the notification from VAL server towards the ASM server
on occurrence of the event.
Pre-conditions:
> 1) The ASM server is subscribed to the monitoring status information.
Figure 5.1.5.2-1: VAL server notifies the monitoring status information
1) When the event occurs as specified by the ASM server in the subscription
request, the VAL server sends monitoring information notification to the ASM
server with a report containing status information identified by the ASM
server and available to the VAL server.
2) Upon receiving the report, the ASM server updates the monitoring status of
the VAL to the other VAL UE(s), VAL Client(s) or 3GPP network as required.
### 5.1.6 Reference Points
#### 5.1.6.1 General
This clause describes the reference points of the architecture for application
service management.
#### 5.1.6.2 ASM-C
This is the interface between ASM Client and VAL Client. It is used by ASM
client to share information regarding application service monitoring and
provisioning of UE clients.
#### 5.1.6.3 ASM-UU
This is the interface between ASM Client and ASM Server. It is utilized by ASM
Server to configure UE and provide policies related to the application
service. The ASM server uses this interface to provide notifications about
possible actions to control the traffic.
#### 5.1.6.4 ASM-S
This is the interface between ASM Server and VAL Server. It is used for
provisioning and monitoring of VAL AS as per the policies and profiles of the
VAL service. The 3GPP network status for the VAL service is monitored by ASM
Server and notified to the VAL server if changes for it to take suitable
action. This is service-based interface where VAL server and ASM Server
exposes services as APIs, to be invoked by other entities.
5.1.7 Evaluation
The solution addresses KI#2 related to Application server monitoring. The
solution proposes functional model for application service management, where
ASM server collects data from VAL server or ASM client (along with VAL client)
and if required, it decides corrective action to take for VAL client or VAL
server. ASM server logic and algorithm to determine the corrective action is
implementation specific. The solution proposes data collection procedures
using request-response model and also subscribe-notify model.
## 5.2 Solution #2: IoT Platform deployment options
### 5.2.1 General
IoT Platforms enable applications and services from multiple verticals by
providing a set of common services for deploying dynamic, performant, scalable
and resilient services which may be underlying-network agnostic.
Fig 5.2.1-1 depicts a generic IoT Platform with IoT Platform Common Services
(IoT-PCS) servers enabling a set of applications deployed using corresponding
servers (IoT-App), which may belong to different verticals. On the device
side, corresponding IoT-PCS and IoT-App clients enable the client-side
functionality.
Figure 5.2.1-1: Generic representation of services enabled via IoT Platforms
The following clauses introduce functional models for supporting a variety of
IoT Platform deployments based on the generic functional model specified in
clause 6.2 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [6].
NOTE: The IoT Platform functional and deployment models in this document focus
only on SEAL functionality to support application capability exposure to
general purpose servers or 3rd party IoT applications.
### 5.2.2 Deployment models in single PLMN operator domain
#### 5.2.2.1 General
IoT Platform deployment models for single PLMN operator domain case are
described in this clause.
The following models are differentiated primarily based on which entities have
network exposure access and may implement the necessary functionality.
Therefore, for the purpose of network exposure, IoT-PCS servers are
implemented as SEAL servers. While some IoT-PCS services may be implemented as
VAL services, the representation of that implementation option is abstracted
in the following models.
#### 5.2.2.2 Single network exposure access model
Figure 5.2.2.2-1 illustrates the single network exposure access deployment
model in single PLMN operator domain
Figure 5.2.2.2-1: Single network exposure access deployment model in single
PLMN operator domain
In this model network interfaces are available to the IoT-PCS servers
providing SEAL services via the SEAL-S reference point to IoT Application
(IoT-App) servers as VAL servers. The IoT-PCS servers communicate with the
SCEF via T8 reference point or with the NEF via N33 reference point.
The interface between the IoT-PCS client and IoT-PCS server is an instance of
a SEAL-UU reference point, e.g., CM-UU. The IoT-PCS client interacts with IoT-
App client (as a VAL client) using an instance of a SEAL-C reference point.
The IoT-PCS server interacts with IoT-App server(s) over instance(s) of SEAL-S
reference point(s).
#### 5.2.2.3 Distributed network exposure access model
Figure 5.2.2.3-1 illustrates the distributed network exposure access
deployment model in single PLMN operator domain
Figure 5.2.2.3-1: Distributed network exposure access deployment model in
single PLMN operator domain
In this model network interfaces are available to the IoT-PCS servers as well
as to the IoT-App severs, therefore they both implement SEAL services.
The IoT Application uses both SEAL and VAL servers and clients. The IoT-PCS
server(s) provides additional SEAL services via the SEAL-S reference point to
IoT-App VAL servers.
The IoT-PCS and IoT-App SEAL severs communicate with the SCEF via T8 reference
point or with the NEF via N33 reference point. It is assumed that each SEAL
service deployed may be provided to a given IoT Application by either or both
SEAL servers and that the IoT Platform provider can configure the PCS and IoT
Applications in the IoT Platform with policies determining unambiguously which
SEAL service to be used for the IoT application operations. The IoT-PCS and
IoT-App SEAL servers may interact over an instance of SEAL-X reference point.
The interface between the IoT-PCS SEAL client and IoT-PCS SEAL server is an
instance of a SEAL-UU reference point, e.g., GM-UU. The interface between the
IoT-App SEAL client and IoT-App SEAL server is also instance of a SEAL-UU
reference point, e.g., CM-UU.
The SEAL clients interact with VAL clients using SEAL-C reference points. The
IoT-PCS SEAL server interacts with IoT-App VAL server over an instance of a
SEAL-S reference point.
## 5.3 Solution #3: IoT Platform Functional Models
### 5.3.1 General
The functional model for IoT Platform services is based on the generic SEAL
functional model specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [6] clause 6. It is organized
into functional entities to describe a functional architecture which addresses
the support for IoT Platforms.
### 5.3.2 On-network functional models
Figure 5.3.2-1 illustrates the generic on-network functional model for IoT
Platform services in single network exposure access deployment mode.
Figure 5.3.2-1: Functional model for IoT-PCS (single network exposure access)
The IoT-PCS client communicates with the IoT-PCS server over the IP-UU
reference point, which is an instance of the SEAL-UU generic reference point.
The IoT-PCS client provides IoT platform common services functionality to the
IoT-App client(s) over IP- C reference point, which is an instance of the
SEAL-C reference point. The VAL IoT-App server communicates with the IoT-PCS
server over the IP-S reference point, which is an instance of the SEAL-S
generic reference point.
The IoT-PCS server communicates with the SCEF via T8 reference point. The IoT-
PCS server communicates with the NEF via N33 reference point by mechanisms
defined in clause 5.2.6.2 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [2].
When IoT Applications are deployed in a stand-alone mode, without the use of
an IoT Platform service, the functional model in Figure 5.3.2-2 applies. In
this case, SEAL services and network exposure may be implemented internally to
IoT-App.
Figure 5.3.2-2: Functional model for stand-alone IoT Applications (without
IoT-PCS services)
For stand-alone IoT applications, the IoT-App client communicates with the
IoT-App server over the IP-UU reference point, which is an instance of the
SEAL-UU generic reference point. The IoT-App client provides application-
specific services to the IoT-App client(s) over IP- C reference point, which
is an instance of the SEAL-C reference point. The VAL IoT-App server(s)
communicate with the IoT-App SEAL server over the IP-S reference point, which
is an instance of the SEAL-S generic reference point.
The IoT-App server communicates with the SCEF via T8 reference point and with
the NEF via N33 reference point.
When an IoT Application designed based on a stand-alone model, is deployed in
conjunction with an IoT platform, inter-service communication is required
between the two SEAL servers. Figure 5.3.2-3 illustrates the functional model
for inter-service communications between an IoT-PCS SEAL Server and an IoT-App
SEAL Server.
Figure 5.3.2-3: Inter-service communication between IoT-App and IoT-PCS SEAL
servers
For inter-service communications, an IoT-App SEAL Server communicates with the
IoT-PCS server over the SEAL-X3 reference point. In this deployment, both SEAL
servers provide network exposure access, resulting in a distributed network
exposure access deployment. Figure 5.3.2-4 depicts the resulting deployment.
Note that this deployment aligns with the distributed network exposure access
model introduced by the solution in clause 5.2, while using the proposed IoT-
PCS-specific instances of SEAL reference points.
Figure 5.3.2-4: Functional model for IoT-PCS (distributed network exposure
access)
## 5.4 Solution #4: Device triggering
### 5.4.1 General
An IoT-PCS Server may initiate a device trigger to a UE to cause it to
establish a connection to the IoT-PCS Server, to connect to another server on
the platform, to provide updated information, etc. The IoT-PCS Server may
initiate the device trigger itself (implicit) or it may be initiated by a
request that the IoT-PCS Server receives from IoT-App VAL Servers (explicit).
### 5.4.2 Procedures and information flows
#### 5.4.2.1 Procedure
Figure 5.4.2.1-1: Device Triggering Procedure
1). The device triggering procedure may be initiated based on an optional
interaction between the IoT-PCS Server and an IoT-App VAL Server, For example,
the IoT-App VAL Server may send an explicit API request, or the IoT-App VAL
Server may send another message based on which the IoT-PCS determines to start
the device triggering procedure.
2). The IoT-PCS Server determines to initiate the device triggering. The IoT-
PCS Server may use UE Availability and/or pre-configured information to
determine the timing of the Device Triggering request, e.g. the trigger may be
sent to ensure that a target UE in PSM mode is reachable when resuming
communications.
3). The IoT-PCS Server performs the device triggering procedure described in
3GPP TS 23.682 [7] clause 5.2. The procedure requires that the UE Identifier,
port number(s) and protocol information are available at the IoT-PCS Server.
> NOTE: It is to be addressed in the normative phase how the port number(s)
> and protocol information are being made available to the IoT-PCS Server
As part of the procedure, the IoT-PCS Server receives a Device Triggering
delivery status report from SCEF/NEF indicating the success of the delivery.
4). If a request was received in step 1, the IoT-PCS Server responds to the
request.
Based on the trigger purpose derived from the payload, the targeted IoT-PCS
Client or IoT-App Client performs the corresponding actions (e.g., connect to
the IoT-App VAL Server).
### 5.4.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses Key Issue #6, enabling the IoT-PCS to provide device
triggering support on behalf of the IoT Applications.
## 5.5 Solution #5: Application Server status monitoring via CAPIF
### 5.5.1 Description
This solution addresses KI#2 by providing enhanced CAPIF services for managing
application server (AS) status. The CAPIF core function (CCF) takes the
responsibility to monitor AS service status. The CCF may expose the monitored
AS service status to CCF service consumers (e.g. API invoker) via enhanced
service discovery and event exposure procedures.
NOTE: One AS can provide one or more AS services.
#### 5.5.1.1 AS service status monitoring
When a 3^rd^ party Application Server provides its service (also see KI#2 and
sol#8 in 3GPP TR 23.700-98 [9]), it acts as Application Exposure Function
(AEF) in CAPIF.
The application services provided by the AS can be published in the CCF so
that the services are discoverable by the API invoker. When an AS acting as an
AEF publishes its service API to the CCF, the AS updates its service API
status (active, inactive) at the CCF. Table 5.5.1.1-1 shows the impact (with
**bold** text) on the existing service API publish information flows in 3GPP
TS 23.222 [8] as example, the same addition applies for the service API update
request (e.g. to update service API status) and interconnection service API
publish request.
Table 5.5.1.1-1: Service API publish request
* * *
Information element Status Description API publisher information M The
information of the API publisher may include identity, authentication and
authorization information Service API information M The service API
information includes the service API name, service API type, **service API
status (e.g. active, inactive),** communication type, description, Serving
Area Information (optional), AEF location (optional), interface details (e.g.
IP address, port number, URI), protocols, version numbers, and data format.
Shareable information O (see NOTE) Indicates whether the service API or the
service API category can be published to other CCFs. And if sharing, a list of
CAPIF provider domain information where the service API or the service API
category can be published is contained. NOTE: If the shareable information is
not present, the service API is not allowed to be shared.
* * *
For service API discovery, the CCF consumer (e.g. API invoker) can discover
the service API status via service API discovery procedure or be notified
about the service API status change via CAPIF event exposure procedure. The
Application publishing function (APF) can update the service API status to the
CCF.
The service status exposed by CCF is supported by \"Availability of service
APIs\" event in clause 8.8.6 of 3GPP TS 23.222 [8].
### 5.5.2 Evaluation
This solution provides monitoring of service API status monitoring for the AS
using CAPIF, which addresses KI#2. The control of application traffic towards
the AS is up to the consumer of the AS service API to decide after AS service
API discovery.
## 5.6 Solution #6: BDT configuration
### 5.6.1 General
For an IoT Platform, the use of Background Data Transfer (BDT) allows IoT-App
VAL Servers to use transmission time windows that are/cost and/or throughput
favorable. The network provider is also enabled to provide better network
resource management for predictable usage of downlink data.
### 5.6.2 Procedures and information flows
#### 5.6.2.1 General
The Background Data Transfer feature requires an initial step in which
policies are requested and negotiated. BDT Policy requests to the 3GPP network
are based on an expected time window and UE set, with additional optional
information e.g., expected data volume per UE. The UE set may be indicated as
an expected number of UEs, a group ID or geographical area.
The feature allows for the server involved to negotiate the policies proposed
by the network. It also allows the server to enable notifications to be sent,
should network conditions affect future BDT policies.
Based on the BDT policies obtained using the procedures detailed in this
clause, an IoT-App VAL server can initiate a data transfer to the client at
the negotiated time and with the negotiated charging rates. The data transfer
between the IoT-App VAL Server and the IoT-App VAL Client is performed without
IoT-PCS Server enablement, but the IoT-App VAL Server may utilize
functionality exposed by SEALDD or 5GMSG Servers. Service layer functionality
for the purpose of facilitating the data transfer with the negotiated policy
is not in scope of this specification.
#### 5.6.2.2 Request and Select Background Data Transfer Policy
Figure 5.6.2.2-1 depicts a general procedure for the request and configuration
of traffic policies for BDT initiated by a request from an IoT-App VAL Server.
Figure 5.6.2.2-1: General Procedure for configuration of Background Data
Transfer
**Step 1:** An IoT-App VAL Server requests IoT-PCS Server to negotiate with
the 3GPP network a background data transfer policy.
The request includes expected data volume, expected number of UEs, expected
time window for the background data transfer. The request may also include
group ID, geographic information for the UEs, a request expiration time,
guidance for policy selection. If guidance for policy selection is not
included, the IoT-App VAL Server indicates if IoT-PCS Server may choose
independently from among multiple transfer policies.
**Step 2:** Based on the request expiration time and Service Provider
policies, IoT-PCS Server may determine to delay interactions with the 3GPP
network in order to negotiate on behalf of multiple IoT-App VAL Servers.
**The IoT-PCS Server performs the resource management of background data
transfer procedure described in 3GPP TS 23.502 [2] clause 4.16.7.2. The
procedure requires that** expected data volume, expected number of UEs, and
expected time window **are provided by the IoT-PCS Server.** If the IoT-PCS
Server determined to negotiate on behalf of multiple IoT-App VAL Servers, the
parameters included reflects a superset of the individual IoT-App VAL Server
requests.
> NOTE 1: The IoT-PCS Server determines to negotiate on behalf of multiple
> IoT-App VAL Servers based on implementation options and local policies. For
> example, if the request expiration time and expected time window are
> sufficiently large and, respectively, far away in time, the IoT-PCS Server
> may be allowed to delay the negotiations with the 3GPP network in case
> another request is received, targeting the same group of UEs. If another
> request is received with expected time windows sufficiently close and if the
> guidance for policy selection allows, a single policy/time window may be
> negotiated instead. This allows the UE group to wake up only once for
> multiple background data transfers.
**T** he 3GPP network determines one or more applicable transfer policies
based on the requesting Background Data Transfer parameters. A list of
transfer policies is provided to the IoT-PCS Server. Each transfer policy
includes mandatory Reference ID, charging rating group reference and allocated
time window and optional maximum UL and DL bandwidth. The IoT-PCS Server uses
ASP policies and the _transfer selection guidance (if available)_ to select a
policy _. The_ IoT-PCS Server informs the 3GPP Network of the selected
transfer policy.
NOTE 2: Based on 3GPP TS 23.503[3] clause 6.1.2.4. it is assumed that the IoT-
PCS server is configured to understand the charging rating group reference
based on agreements with the operator.
NOTE 3: Policy selection guidance options such as \"lowest cost\", \"highest
throughput\", etc. are to be determined in the normative phase.
NOTE 4: The IoT-PCS server sets the warning notification based on local
policies.
**Step 3: T** he IoT-PCS Server responds to the IoT-App VAL Server, providing
the Reference ID and allocated time window of the background data transfer
policy.
5.6.2.3 Reselect Background Data Transfer Policy
Figure 5.6.2.3-1 depicts a general procedure for reselecting BDT policies
after BDT warning.
Figure 5.6.2.3-1: General Procedure for reselecting BDT policies after warning
**Step 1:** The 3GPP Network, via NEF, sends the BDT warning (BDT Policy
negotiate) notification to the IoT-PCS server. The notification includes the
affected BDT policy Reference ID and list of candidate BDT policies.
Each of the BDT policies in the candidate BDT list includes mandatory
Reference ID, charging rating group reference and time window, as well as
optional maximum UL and DL bandwidth.
**Step 2: The** IoT-PCS Server checks the new BDT policies included in the
candidate list of the BDT warning notification. The IoT-PCS Server determines
whether the notification affects multiple IoT-App VAL Servers or not. The IoT-
PCS Server uses ASP policies and the _transfer selection guidance (if
available)_ _provided with the initial_ IoT-App VAL Server _request_ to select
a policy _._
_The_ IoT-PCS Server informs the 3GPP Network of the selected transfer policy
or that no new policy has been selected by using steps 11-16 of the procedure
for BDT warning notification in 3GPP TS 23.502[2] clause 4.16.7.3.
**Step 3: T** he IoT-PCS Server ends a new response to the IoT-App VAL Server,
providing information about the new policy, or that no policy is available. If
a new BDT policy is available, the information provided to the IoT-App VAL
Server includes the ID of the applicable policy and the time window.
### 5.6.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses Key Issue #1. The solution allows the IoT-PCS to
aggregate requirements/ requests from multiple IoT-App Servers and to select a
set of BDT policies after negotiation with the Core Network, based on all IoT-
App Server inputs. The solution also enables the IoT-PCS to determine the
reference to the charging rate (based on agreement with the operator) without
exposure of this information to the IoT Servers. At the same time, the
solution does not affect the ability of IoT-App VAL/SEAL Servers to directly
interact with 5GS for BDT negotiation, if so configured.
The solution addresses only BDT policy negotiation, with the data transfer
being performed without IoT-PCS Server enablement. IoT-App VAL Servers may
utilize functionality exposed by SEALDD or 5GMSG Servers for facilitating the
data transfer.
The interactions with the Core Network are fully specified and require no
changes. The request and response for BDT configuration exchanged between the
IoT-App VAL Server and IOT-PCS server (i.e., steps 1 and 3 in 5.6.2.2) require
specification. Therefore, this is a viable solution.
## 5.7 Solution #7: UE unified traffic pattern and monitoring management
### 5.7.1 General
### 5.7.2 Procedures and information flows
#### 5.7.2.1 General
UE unified traffic pattern and monitoring management procedures allow IoT-PCS
to offer services leveraging several CN exposure APIs: communication patterns
configuration, network parameter values configuration and UE monitoring event
management.
#### 5.7.2.2 UE unified traffic pattern and monitoring management subscription
procedure
An IoT-App VAL or SEAL server can indicate to the IoT-PCS server its interest
in receiving UE unified traffic patterns and monitoring management services by
sending the UE unified traffic pattern and monitoring management subscription
request.
The subscription requests from each IoT-App VAL or SEAL server also include
the traffic pattern configuration of the requester, which refers to
application-level patterns of data traffic. The IoT-PCS server aggregates the
traffic patterns obtained from the requestors (and described in Table
5.7.2.5.1-2) to determine the UE unified traffic patterns per UE. The UE
unified traffic patterns are described via Table 5.7.2.5.3-1 for the UE
unified traffic pattern update notification. These aggregated traffic patterns
per UE (termed UE unified traffic pattern) are updated/adjusted by the IoT-PCS
Server based on information obtain from UE monitoring.
Figure 5.7.2.2-1: UE unified traffic pattern and monitoring management
subscription procedure
1\. In order to subscribe to the IoT-PCS Server services, the IoT-App VAL/
SEAL server sends the UE unified traffic pattern and monitoring management
request, as detailed in clause 5.7.2.5. The subscription request may include
IoT-App traffic pattern configuration, which provides the traffic patterns of
the specific IoT-App VAL/SEAL Server. The request may also include Management
subscription indications which indicate to the IoT PCS server which management
and 5GC exposure procedures the IoT-App VAL/SEAL server allows the IoT-PCS
Server to perform on its behalf.
2\. Upon receipt of the request, the IoT-PCS server sends a UE unified traffic
pattern and monitoring management subscription response.
3\. The IoT-PCS Server aggregates UE unified traffic pattern and monitoring
management subscription requests from different IoT-App VAL/SEAL servers and
determines the UE unified traffic pattern per UE (using the traffic patterns
of all the IoT-Apps communicating with the UE). If the IoT-PCS Server
determines that additional or updated IoT-App traffic pattern configurations
are needed, it requests them from the IoT-App Servers using the Traffic
pattern configuration request procedure in clause 5.7.4.
4\. Depending on the subscription requests received and local policies, the
IoT-PCS Server executes one or more management and 5GC exposure procedure (per
UE). Management and 5GC exposure procedures are detailed in clause 5.7.3.
> The IoT-PCS Server determines the management procedures required to be
> executed on behalf of the IoT-App VAL/SEAL Servers .based on the received
> management subscription indications as follows:
\- If the CP configuration indication is provided, the IoT-PCS executes the CP
configuration procedure detailed in clause 5.7.3.2.
\- If the UE unified traffic pattern monitoring management indication is
provided, the IoT-PCS Server executes steps 1-3 of the UE unified traffic
pattern monitoring procedure detailed in clause 5.7.3.3.
\- If the UE unified traffic pattern monitoring update notification indication
is provided, the IoT-PCS Server executes the steps 1-4 of the UE unified
traffic pattern monitoring procedure detailed in clause 5.7.3.3.
\- If the Network parameter coordination indication is provided, the IoT-PCS
executes the network parameter coordination procedure detailed in clause
5.7.3.4.
NOTE 1: The IoT-PCS Server translates the management subscription indications
received from different IoT-App VAL/SEAL Servers into per-UE management
indications based on local policies and configurations. For example, an IoT-
PCS Server may be configured to execute a management procedure for a UE if at
least one IoT-App VAL/SEAL Server indicates it. Another IoT-PCS Server may be
configured to provide all the management procedures for the UEs using the
platform independent of IoT-App Server subscription indications.
NOTE 2: Corresponding subscription update request and unsubscribe request
procedures will complement this functionality in the normative phase. These
would allow the update of the subscription request parameters and the deletion
of the entire subscription, respectively.
5.7.2.3 UE unified traffic pattern update notification procedure
An IoT-PCS Server can provide updated UE unified traffic pattern information
to IoT-App VAL or SEAL servers by sending UE unified traffic pattern update
notifications as shown in figure 5.7.2.3-1. The UE unified traffic pattern
management procedure detailed in clause 5.7.3.3. is an example of procedure
which may result in UE unified traffic pattern updates at the IoT-PCS server,
based on which UE unified traffic pattern update notifications are provided.
Pre-conditions:
1) The IoT-App Val/SEAL server has subscribed for UE unified traffic pattern
and monitoring management services, requesting to receive UE unified traffic
pattern update notifications
Figure 5.7.2.3-1: UE unified traffic pattern update notification procedure
1\. The IoT-PCS server sends the UE unified traffic pattern update
notification when either of the following occurs:
\- Monitoring events lead to updates in the UE unified traffic pattern (e.g.,
to schedule elements in Table 5.7.2.5.3-1) the IoT-PCS server sends a
corresponding notification to the IoT-App VAL/SEAL server. Other notifications
may be provided, e.g., if the stationary indication changes.
\- An NP Configuration Notification is received with a new set of applied
network parameters and if the IoT-PCS Server determines that the new
configuration is incompatible with the current UE unified traffic pattern (see
also clause 5.7.3.3 step 3).
#### 5.7.2.4 Traffic pattern configuration request procedure
To obtain information about service-specific traffic patterns for a UE, the
IoT-PCS server can request traffic pattern configuration from the IoT-App
VAL/SEAL server. This procedure may be used for example to request traffic
patterns from IoT-App Servers which did not initiate UE unified traffic
pattern and monitoring management, but which nevertheless communicate with the
UE.
Figure 5.7.2.4-1: Traffic pattern configuration request
1\. In order to obtain the service-specific traffic pattern configuration for
a UE, the IoT-PCS Server sends traffic pattern configuration request to the
IoT-App VAL/ SEAL server. The request parameters indicate the UE(s) for which
the request is made.
2\. Upon receipt of the request, the IoT-App VAL/SEAL server sends a response.
The parameters include one or more traffic pattern elements.
#### 5.7.2.5 Information Flows
##### 5.7.2.5.1 UE unified traffic pattern and monitoring management
subscription request
Table 5.7.2.5.1-1 describes the information flow for the UE unified traffic
pattern and monitoring management subscription request from the IoT-App
VAL/SEAL server to the IoT-PCS server.
Table 5.7.2.5.1-1: UE unified traffic pattern and monitoring management
subscription request
* * *
Information element Monitoring Description IoT-App VAL UE ID M UEs hosting
IoT-App clients for which the subscription is requested IoT-App VAL service ID
M Identity of the VAL service for which the subscription is requested.
Management subscription indications M At least one of the following
indications is to be provided > CP configuration indication O Indicates
whether CP configuration by the IoT-PCS Server with 5GC is requested. (see
NOTE 1) > UE unified traffic pattern monitoring management indication O
Indicates that management of the UE unified traffic pattern is requested > UE
unified traffic pattern update notification indication O Indicates that
notifications for updates of the UE unified traffic pattern monitoring is
requested > Network parameter coordination indication O Indicates whether
network parameter coordination by the IoT-PCS with 5GC is requested (see NOTE
1) IoT-App traffic pattern configuration O Traffic pattern configuration of
the VAL service for this UE, as described in table 5.7.2.5.1-2. NOTE 1: The CP
configuration and the network parameter coordination functionality are also
subject to policies available at the IoT-PCS Server.
* * *
Table 5.7.2.5.1-2: IoT-App traffic pattern configuration
* * *
Information element Monitoring Description Schedule elements O List of
schedule elements applicable to the traffic patterns of the VAL service for
this UE. Each schedule element is composed from seven fields: second, minute,
hour, day of month, month, day of week and year. Each element indicates times
or durations when the service traffic occurs. Multiple schedule elements can
be used to create complex scheduling. (see NOTE 3) Expiration time O
Identifies when the IoT-App traffic pattern parameter configuration expire. If
absent, it indicates that there is no expiration time. Stationary indication O
Identifies whether the UE is expected to be stationary or mobile while
communicating using this traffic pattern configuration
* * *
NOTE 3: The following is an example of a schedule element with the fields:
second, minute, hour, day of month, month, day of week and year:
> *; 0-30 ; 2; *; Jan-Sept; Tues; *.
>
> This schedule element, when used for IoT-App VAL traffic patterns translates
> to the following in the CpProvisioning API as described in 3GPP TS
> 29.122[10] clause 5.10:
\- periodicCommunicationIndicator: TRUE
\- communicationDurationTime: 30 min
\- periodicTime: 1 week
\- scheduledCommunicationTime: Tues, 2:00-2:30
\- validityTime: calculated using the Jan-Sept range and the provided
expiration time.
NOTE: The format of this IE is to be provided in stage 3. The purpose of this
description is to clarify how the same element can contain multiple
periodicities, specify start/stop times, etc.
##### 5.7.2.5.2 UE unified traffic pattern and monitoring management
subscription response
Table 5.7.2.5.2-1 describes the information flow for the UE unified traffic
pattern and monitoring management subscription response from the IoT-PCS
server to the IoT-App VAL/SEAL server.
Table 5.7.2.5.2-1: UE unified traffic pattern and monitoring management
subscription response
* * *
Information element Monitoring Description Result M Indicates success or
failure of the subscription request
* * *
##### 5.7.2.5.3 UE unified traffic pattern update notification
Table 5.7.2.5.3-1 describes the information flow for the UE unified traffic
pattern update notification from the IoT-PCS server to the IoT-App VAL/SEAL
server.
Table 5.7.2.5.3-1: UE unified traffic pattern update notification
+---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Information element | Monitoring | Description | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | UE ID | M | UE for which the UE | | | | unified traffic pattern | | | | update notification is | | | | provided for. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Schedule elements | O | Schedule element | | | | applicable to the unified | | | | traffic patterns of the | | | | UE. A schedule element is | | | | composed from seven | | | | fields: second, minute, | | | | hour, day of month, | | | | month, day of week and | | | | year. Each element | | | | indicates times or | | | | durations of UE | | | | availability. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Stationary indication | O | Identifies whether the UE | | | | is expected to be | | | | stationary or mobile | | | | while communicating using | | | | this UE unified traffic | | | | pattern, as determined by | | | | the IoT-PCS Server | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Cause | O | This element is mandatory | | | | when the notification is | | | | provided to inform of a | | | | parameter configuration | | | | applied by the network | | | | which is incompatible | | | | with the existing Traffic | | | | Patterns. (see NOTE) | | | | | | | | The element is optional | | | | when the notification | | | | informs of UE unified | | | | traffic pattern updates, | | | | providing additional | | | | information on the reason | | | | for the UE unified | | | | traffic pattern update | | | | (e.g. monitoring events | | | | received) | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | NOTE: For notifications | | | | of incompatible | | | | configurations, the | | | | normative phase can | | | | consider whether adding | | | | an optional element with | | | | a proposed IoT-PCS Server | | | | UE unified traffic | | | | pattern update is | | | | beneficial. | | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+
##### 5.7.2.5.4 Traffic pattern configuration request
Table 5.7.2.5.4-1 describes the information flow for the Traffic pattern
configuration request from the IoT-PCS server to the IoT-App VAL/SEAL server.
Table 5.7.2.5.4-1: Traffic pattern configuration request
* * *
Information element Monitoring Description UE ID M UE for which the Traffic
pattern configuration is requested.
* * *
##### 5.7.2.5.5 Traffic pattern configuration response
Table 5.7.2.5.5-1 describes the information flow for the Traffic pattern
configuration response from the IoT-App server to the IoT-PCS server.
Table 5.7.2.5.5-1: Traffic pattern configuration response
* * *
Information element Monitoring Description UE ID M UE for which the Traffic
pattern configuration is provided IoT-App traffic pattern configuration M
Traffic pattern configuration of the VAL service for this UE, as described in
table 5.7.2.5.1-2.
* * *
### 5.7.3 Management and 5GC exposure procedures
#### 5.7.3.1 General
#### 5.7.3.2 CP configuration procedure
The CP configuration procedure uses the information received by the IoT-PCS
Server from the IoT-App regarding predictable communication behaviour of their
services to provide information to 5GC for resource planning purposes, using
an existing network exposure API.
Pre-conditions:
1\. IoT-PCS Server determines to provide the service for a specific UE after
receiving CP configuration indications in UE unified traffic pattern and
monitoring management subscription requests, subject to policy.
Figure 5.7.2.2-1: CP configuration procedure
1\. The IoT-PCS Server stores all Traffic pattern configurations received for
the UE in subsequent UE unified traffic pattern and monitoring management
subscription procedures and determines the UE unified traffic pattern. The
IoT-PCS Server can also initiate Traffic pattern configuration requests to
obtain additional configurations. The IoT-PCS Server uses the UE unified
traffic pattern to determine a CpParameterSet, as defined in 3GPP TS
29.122[10], for the CpProvisioning API.
2\. The IoT-PCS Server determines based on local policy when the
CpProvisioning API is to be invoked and executes the CP parameter provisioning
procedure described in 3GPP TS 29.122[10] clause 4.4.9.
#### 5.7.3.3 UE unified traffic pattern management procedure
The UE unified traffic pattern management procedure is used to determine and
manage a unified traffic pattern applicable to a specified UE. The IoT-PCS
Server then uses the 5GC exposure of UE monitoring events to update the UE
unified traffic pattern.
Pre-conditions:
1\. IoT-PCS Server determines to provide the service for a specific UE if
either of the following conditions is true:
a) It receives UE unified traffic pattern monitoring management indications in
UE unified traffic pattern and monitoring management subscription requests; or
b) It determines to provide Network parameter coordination services for the
UE.
Figure 5.7.3.3-1: UE unified traffic pattern and monitoring management
subscription procedure
The IoT-PCS Server determines an initial UE unified traffic pattern, e.g. by
using all Traffic pattern configurations received for the UE .
2\. The IoT-PCS Server determines, based on local policy that UE monitoring
events are to be configured and executes the corresponding Monitoring
procedure as described in 3GPP TS 29.122 [10] clause 4.4.2.
3\. The IoT-PCS Server updates the UE unified traffic pattern based on the
received monitoring events as follows:
\- If a Monitoring Notification report for UE_REACHABILITY is received, and
_idleStatusInfo_ information is provided in the report, the IoT-PCS Server
changes the _schedule element_ of the UE unified traffic pattern such that the
duration of activity is set to the value of the _activeTime_ parameter
configured in the _idleStatusInfo_.
\- If a Monitoring Notification report for AVAILABILITY_AFTER_DDN_FAILURE is
received after a UE transitions to idle mode, the IoT-PCS Server updates the
_schedule element_ of the UE unified traffic pattern such that: the start of
an activity window is based on the Idle Timestamp, with a periodicity equal to
the TAU/RAU Timer; the duration of the activity window indicates the Active
Time value.
\- If a Monitoring Notification report for COMMUNICATION_FAILURE is received
The IOT-PCS updates the schedule element of the UE unified traffic pattern to
indicate that no communications are currently available (e.g. by using a
keyword such as \"NULL\"). Local policies may specify events/ thresholds
further defining when the IoT-PCS may provide a UE unified traffic pattern
update based on monitoring events. For example, the update may be provided
only after repeated communication failures are received within a timespan, or
only if high reliability communications are expected. It is recommended that
UE Reachability monitoring is also enabled in conjunction with the
Communication Failure monitoring. This enables the IoT-PCS to provide updated
timing information once the UE becomes reachable again.
\- If a Monitoring Notification report for LOSS_OF_CONNECTIVITY is received,
the IoT-PCS Server changes the _schedule element_ of the UE unified traffic
pattern to indicate that no communications are currently available
4\. Conditional: The IoT-PCS Server notifies subscribers of the UE unified
traffic pattern updates, as described in clause 5.7.2.3
#### 5.7.3.4 Network parameter coordination procedure
The network parameter coordination procedure uses UE unified traffic pattern
information to influence aspects of UE/network behaviour such as the UE\'s PSM
and extended idle mode DRX. For this purpose, parameter values may be
suggested for Maximum Latency and Maximum Response Time for a UE. 5GC may
choose to accept, reject or modify the suggested configuration parameter
value.
Pre-conditions:
1\. IoT-PCS Server determines to provide the service for a specific UE after
receiving Network parameter coordination indications in UE unified traffic
pattern and monitoring management subscription requests, subject to policy.
2\. IoT-PCS Server determines and manages UE unified traffic patterns as
described in clause 5.7.3.3.
Figure 5.7.3.4-1: Network parameter coordination procedure
1\. The IoT-PCS Server determines to provide Network parameter configuration
to 5GC. This determination can be based on updates to the UE unified traffic
patterns resulting from interactions with IoT-App Servers (e.g. Traffic
pattern configuration updates), on local policies, etc.
The IoT-PCS Server determines parameters the needed for NpConfiguration data
structure as specified in 3GPP TS 29.122[10] from the UE unified traffic
patterns as follows:
_\- maximumLatency_ \-- This value tells the network how long the UE is
allowed to sleep. Setting it to 0 will disable PSM, extended idle mode DRX,
and extended buffering. The IoT-PCS can extract the periodicity derived from
the UE unified traffic pattern, which includes the schedule elements for the
UEs communications with all IoT-Apps. The _IoT-PCS Server_ sets _Maximum
Latency_ to be approximately the periodicity of the active periods derived
from the _schedule element_ of the UE unified traffic pattern.
_\- maximumResponseTime_ \-- When the UE uses PSM, Maximum Response Time tells
the network how long the UE should stay reachable after a transition to idle.
When the UE uses eDRX, Maximum Response Time is used by the network to
determine when to send a reachability notification before a UE\'s paging
occasion. The IoT-PCS Server extracts a duration of activity from the
_schedule element_ of the UE unified traffic pattern and sets _Maximum
Response Time_ to reflect the duration of activity, indicating how long the UE
should stay reachable for downlink communications.
2\. The IoT-PCS Server performs the Network Parameter Configuration procedure
as described in 3GPP TS 29.122[10] clause 4.4.12.
NOTE: The values provided by IoT-PCS Server to 5GC in the Network parameter
configuration procedure may or may not be accepted by the network. If they are
not accepted, 5GC responds accordingly and the previous values apply, or new
values are provided. The new values are used by IoT-PCS Server as described in
clause 5.7.3.3, when they were provided via monitoring event notifications.
5.7.3 Evaluation
The solution addresses Key Issues #3 and #4.
The solution captured in this clause except sub-clause 5.7.3.2 allows the IoT-
PCS to aggregate scheduling information and monitoring requests from multiple
IoT-App Servers. Aggregated monitoring in the application layer can greatly
reduce the signalling burden on the exposure interfaces, i.e. T8/ N33,
especially for MIoT.
In addition, the solution enables IoT Platforms to integrate network-agnostic
ASs (i.e. without SCEF/NEF APIs) and to provide them with UE monitoring and
scheduling features. IoT-PCS Server is also used to use application-level
scheduling to derive 5GC PSM configurations on behalf of multiple IoT-App
servers. At the same time, this solution does not affect the ability of IoT-
App VAL/SEAL Servers to directly interact with 5GS for UE monitoring.
Therefore, the UE unified traffic pattern management features, provide a
viable solution recommended for the normative phase.
The UE unified traffic pattern management procedure can be considered in the
normative phase as enhancement to NRM event monitoring (as an alternative to
IoT-PCS functionality).The IoT-PCS server can aggregate network parameter
configurations for its serviced IoT App servers. However, additional
coordination from different IoT-PCS servers and other AFs (not served by IoT-
PCS server) is done in the 3GPP CN.
The procedure for CP configuration in clause 5.7.3.2 addresses KI #4. However,
given the SCEF/NEF capabilities to deal with multiple CP configurations per
UE, such a solution does not provide significant advantages, therefore it is
not proposed to be considered for the normative phase.
# 6 Overall Evaluation
## 6.1 Architecture evaluation
This clause provides an evaluation of the application architecture for
enabling application capability exposure to general purpose servers or 3rd
party IoT applications via IoT Platforms.
A summary of the architecture and key issues specified in this technical
report are listed in Table 6.1-1. The architecture enhancements proposed in
clauses 5.1 and 5.3 describe the.
Table 6.1-1 Architecture evaluation
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Architecture | Applicable key | Dependency on other | | solution | issues | working groups | | | | | | | (clause reference) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 5.3 IoT Platform | Supports all key | None | | functional model | issues | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 5.1 Functional model | Supports key issue 2 | None | | for application | | | | service management | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 6.2 Solution evaluations
### 6.2.1 General
All the key issues and solutions specified in this technical report are listed
in Table 6.2.1-1. It includes the mapping of the key issues (clause 4) to the
solutions and corresponding solution evaluations. It also lists the
dependencies on other working groups that will need consideration during the
Release 18 normative phase.
Table 6.2.1-1 Key issue and solutions
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issues\ | Solution | Solution | Dependency on | | (evaluation | | | other working | | clause | | (clause | groups | | reference) | | reference) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | #1: | #2: | 5.2 | None | | Background | Provisioning | | | | Data Transfer | of Edge Data | | | | negotiation | Network | | | | | configuration | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | #2: | #1: | 5.1 | None | | Application | Application | | | | server | Service | | | | monitoring and | Management | | | | control of | Service | | | | traffic | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | #5: | 5.5 | None | | | Application | | | | | Server status | | | | | monitoring via | | | | | CAPIF | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | #3: Key issue | #7: UE | 5.7 | SA2 | | #3: IoT | unified | | | | Platform PSM | traffic | | | | monitoring and | pattern and | | | | configuration | monitoring | | | | | management | | | | | (except | | | | | 5.7.3.2) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | #4: Key issue | #7: UE | 5.7 | N/A | | #4: | unified | | | | Configuration | traffic | | | | of | pattern and | | | | Communication | monitoring | | | | Patterns | management | | | | | (clause | | | | | 5.7.3.2) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | #5 Key issue | none | N/A | N/A | | #5: NIDD | | | | | configuration | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | #6 Key issue | Solution #4: | 5.4 | None | | #6: Device | Device | | | | Triggering | triggering | | | | services. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 6.2.2 Key issue #2: Application server monitoring and control of traffic
Solution #1 (Application Service Management Service) and solution #5
(Application Server status monitoring via CAPIF) addresses the key issue#2.
Solution #1 proposes application service management using SEAL server. The
solution proposes data collection procedures using request-response model and
also subscribe-notify model. If required, the ASM server decides corrective
action to take for VAL client or VAL server.
NOTE: For solution#1, whether configuring VAL server procedure is required or
not -- will be considered in normative work.
Solution #5 proposes to enhance CAPIF service to monitoring application server
status. When an AS acting as an AEF publishes its service API to the CCF, the
AS updates its service API status (active, inactive) at the CCF. The API
invoker can discover the service API status via service API discovery
procedure or be notified about the service API status change via CAPIF event
exposure procedure.
Both solutions can be considered as a base for normative work.
# 7 Conclusions
## 7.1 Solution conclusions
This technical report completes the study on application architecture for
enabling application capability exposure to general purpose servers or third
party IoT applications via IoT Platforms, with the following considerations
for normative work:
> 1\. Definition of terms and abbreviations captured in clause 3 will be
> reused as needed.
>
> 2\. The application architecture enhancements for enabling application
> capability exposure to general purpose servers or 3rd party IoT applications
> via IoT Platforms are summarized in clause 6.1.
>
> 3\. The IoT platform deployment options detailed in clause 5.2 will be
> analysed in the normative phase, to determine whether a new IoT PCS SEAL
> service is necessary. Applicable IoT-PCS -related procedures are to be
> implemented in the normative phase using existing SEAL services (e.g. NRM)
> whenever there is relevance to other verticals or enablers.
>
> 4\. The following individual solutions, corresponding to the key issues,
> will be considered as candidate solutions:
>
> a. for Key issue #1 (Background Data Transfer negotiation):
>
> i. Solution #6 (BDT configuration) as NRM functionality.
>
> b. for Key issue #2 (Application server monitoring and control of traffic):
>
> i. Solution #1 (Application Service Management Service) as ASM SEAL
> functionality; and
>
> ii. Solution #5 (Application Server status monitoring via CAPIF) as new
> CAPIF functionality.
>
> c. for Key issue #3 (IoT Platform PSM monitoring and configuration)
>
> i. Solution #7 (UE unified traffic pattern and monitoring management) except
> clauses 5.7.3.2, 5.7.3.4, as NRM functionality.
>
> d. for Key issue #4 (Configuration of Communication Patterns):
>
> i. Clause 5.7.3.2 of Solution #7 (CP configuration procedure) addresses the
> key issue but does not provide enough enhancement over existing SCEF/NEF
> functionality. Therefore, no functionality is considered for normative
> phase.
>
> e. for Key issue #5 (NIDD configuration):
>
> i. No solutions introduced have been agreed, therefore no functionality is
> considered for normative phase.
Editor\'s Note: The conclusion for Key Issue #6 is FFS
#