# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The ad hoc group call allows authorised users to combine a set of MCX users
based on implementation-specific criteria into a group call. The main
characteristics of this ad hoc group call are:
a) The ad hoc group does not exist until it is spontaneously created during
the call.
b) The ad hoc group ceases to exist when the call terminates.
c) The ad hoc group does not support \'persistent state\' communication, e.g.
emergency state.
MCX users that are combined in an ad hoc group call can be served by the same
or different MCX systems. The ad hoc group call uses a common security level,
priority level, floor control method, and set of operational characteristics
for the participants during the call. As with any group call, the priority
level can change dynamically.
The ad hoc group is used for a single call and it does not persist when the
call is terminated. Authorized users can recreate the ad hoc group for
subsequent calls, or request creation of a permanent MCX group from the
participants in the ad hoc group call.
This technical report identifies the key issues and corresponding solutions
with recommendations for the normative work.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies solutions to satisfy the requirements identified
to support Ad hoc group communication for MCX services. It identifies
enhancements to be included in the technical specifications for MCPTT,
MCVideo, MCData and in the common functional architecture to support Ad hoc
group communications. Requirements for this study are taken from 3GPP TS
22.280 [3].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.179: \"Mission Critical Push to Talk (MCPTT); Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.280: \"Mission Critical Services Common Requirements
(MCCoRe)\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**Ad hoc Group Communication** : The combining of a multiplicity of MCX Users
into a group for the duration of a communication and when the communication is
terminated the group no longer exists.
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms given in 3GPP TS
22.280 [3] apply
**MCX UE**
**MCX User**
**Mission Critical**
**Mission Critical Service**
**Functional alias**
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Key issues
## 4.1 Key issue 1 -- Ad hoc group communication
The requirements for MCX service Ad hoc group communication are captured in
3GPP TS 22.280 [3] clause 6.15.5.
Ad hoc group communication enables authorized MCX users to combine a random
set of MCX Users into a group communication. The ad hoc group does not exist
until it is spontaneously created during the communication and it ceases to
exist once the communication is terminated. The participants of the ad hoc
group communication may be served by the same or different MC systems.
Hence it is required to study the following:
\- Procedures for establishing and release of the ad hoc group communication.
\- Procedures for establishing the ad hoc group communication with end-to-end
encryption support.
\- Identify whether new information flows are required or existing information
flows can be enhanced to support the ad hoc group communication set up.
\- How to support different mechanisms for determining the participants list
for the ad hoc group communication. It could be supplied by the initiator of
the ad hoc group call or determined by the MCX system based on some pre-
defined criteria.
\- How to support a mechanism for the initiator of an MCX Service ad hoc group
communication to request that the list of participants be determined and
updated by the MCX Service system using a specific pre-defined criteria.
\- Identify whether any changes are required to the existing MCX functional
architecture for supporting the ad hoc group communication.
## 4.2 Key issue 2 -- Network topology hiding from MC service client while
establishing Ad hoc group communication
Ad hoc group communication enables authorized MCX users to combine a random
set of MCX Users into a group communication. To best utilize the network
resources, achieve best network performance and provide service resilience, a
network operator normally deploys more than one MC service servers to serve
its customers. This is applicable for all types of group communication and
especially true in ad hoc group communications when it enables authorized
users to combine a random set of MCX users into a group communication. This
kind of deployment topology cannot be exposed and learned by the third party
and only be controlled by the network operator. Ad hoc group is created
spontaneously by the initiating client during the communication set up and
therefore it leaves no choice for the network operators to decide on where to
host the communication beforehand.
Hence it is required to study the following:
\- How the group ID used for the ad hoc group communication can be created by
MC service client and managed when establishing the ad hoc group
communication.
\- Whether and how to support the ad hoc group communication without exposing
the network topology.
\- Whether and how to support the ad hoc group communication with dynamically
allocated network resources (such as the MC service server that will host the
communication).
NOTE: This key issue also applies to existing specification of temporary
groups creation by MC service client (e.g user regroup)
## 4.3 Key issue 3 -- Configuration parameters for Ad hoc group communication
3GPP TS 22.280[3] has defined several requirements related to configuration of
parameters required for ad hoc group communication by the administrator and
initiator of the ad hoc group communication. Hence it is required to study the
following :
\- Identify the required system or service level configuration parameters and
document them.
\- Identify the user level configuration parameters and document them.
\- Identify the default parameters to be configured which will be applied when
these parameters are not supplied as part of the ad hoc group communication
request by the initiator.
\- How the MCX server shall be able to determine whether the user is
authorized to initiate ad hoc group communication.
## 4.4 Key issue 4 -- Modifying participants list of on-going ad hoc group
communication
During the course of an on-going ad hoc group communication, the initiator of
the ad hoc group communication can be able to add or remove particpants from
the communication or the MCX system can add or remove participants based on
some pre-defined criteria. This key issue is to identify the information flows
and procedures required between the MCX client and MCX server to add/remove
particpants to/from an on-going ad hoc group communication.
## 4.5 Key issue 5 -- Ad hoc group emergency alert
Ad hoc group emergency alert enables MC service users to send an MC service
emergency alert also to an ad hoc group. The participants of the ad hoc
emergency alert group may be served by multiple MC systems.
It is required to study the following:
\- How the solution for the ad hoc group communication can be reused for the
ad hoc group emergency alert.
\- Procedures for initiating and cancelling an ad hoc group emergency alert.
\- Support of a functional alias as target for sending an alert notification.
\- Whether any new information flows are required or whether existing ad hoc
group information flows can be enhanced to support ad hoc group emergency
alerts.
\- Whether the participants list for the ad hoc group emergency alert needs
any modification compared to an ad hoc group communication.
\- Whether any changes are required to the existing MC functional model to
support the ad hoc group emergency alert.
\- Clarify whether and which additional information along with the alert
indication is useful.
# 5 Architectural requirements
NOTE: No architectural requirements were identified.
# 6 Architectural enhancements
NOTE: No architectural enhancements were identified.
# 7 Solutions
## 7.1 Solution 1: Ad hoc group communication set up for MCX service
### 7.1.1 General
This solution addresses the key issue 1 described in the clause 4.1 to support
ad hoc group communication set up for MCX service. Information flows and
procedures that are required to address the key issue 1 are addressed in this
section.
### 7.1.2 Information flows
#### 7.1.2.1 Ad hoc group communication request (MC service client -- MC
service server)
Table 7.1.2.1-1 describes the information flow ad hoc group communication
request from the MC service client to the MC service server.
Table 7.1.2.1-1 Ad hoc Group communication request information elements
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information Element | Status | Description | +=============================+========+=============================+ | MC service ID | M | The MC service ID of the | | | | calling party | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Functional alias | O | The functional alias of the | | | | calling party | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | MC service ad hoc group ID | O | The MC service group ID | | (see NOTE 1) | | which is generated by the | | | | MC service user to be | | | | associated with the ad hoc | | | | group communication | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Encryption supported | O | Indicates whether this | | (see NOTE 2) | | ad hoc group communication | | | | supports end-to-end | | | | encryption | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | MC service ID list | O | MC service IDs of the | | (see NOTE 3, NOTE 6) | | participants being invited | | | | for the ad hoc group | | | | communication | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | SDP offer | M | Media parameters of MC | | | | service clients | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Implicit floor request | O | When originating client | | (see NOTE 4) | | requests the floor, this | | | | element shall be included | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Broadcast indicator | O | Indicates that the group | | | | communication request is | | | | for a broadcast group | | | | communication | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Imminent peril indicator | O | Indicates that the ad hoc | | (see NOTE 5) | | group communication request | | | | is an MC service imminent | | | | peril communication | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Emergency Indicator | O | Indicates that the ad hoc | | (see NOTE 5) | | group communication request | | | | is an MC service emergency | | | | communication | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | MC service ID list | O | List of participants | | (see NOTE 3) | | required to acknowledge the | | | | ad hoc group communication | | | | before start of the audio | | | | transmission | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Block sharing participants | O | Indicates that the | | list indicator (see NOTE 8) | | participants shall be able | | | | to determine list of other | | | | participants or not | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Location information | O | Location of the calling | | | | party. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Criteria for determining | O | Carries the details of | | the participants | | criteria or meaningful | | (see NOTE 6) | | label identifying the | | | | criteria or the combination | | | | of both which will be used | | | | by the MC service server | | | | for determining the | | | | participants e.g., it can | | | | be a location based | | | | criteria to invite | | | | particpants in a particular | | | | area | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Preconfigured ad hoc group | O | Group identity whose | | identity (see NOTE 7) | | configuration is to be | | | | applied for this ad hoc | | | | group call. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Requested priority | O | Application priority level | | | | requested for this group | | | | communication | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | NOTE 1: If this information | | | | element is not included the | | | | MC service server shall | | | | assign one to be used for | | | | the ad hoc group | | | | communication and shall | | | | return it to the calling | | | | party to use in the ad hoc | | | | group communication. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: This information | | | | element shall be present | | | | and set to true only if | | | | this ad hoc group | | | | communication is encrypted. | | | | When the ad hoc group | | | | communication is initiated | | | | with participants provided | | | | by the initiator this acts | | | | as an indicator that | | | | subsequent requests shall | | | | follow targeting the | | | | individual participants and | | | | carrying the relevant key | | | | material. If this | | | | information element is set | | | | to false or not present, | | | | then this ad hoc group | | | | communication is | | | | unencrypted. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: This element shall | | | | be included only when the | | | | originating client sends | | | | the list of participants. | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: This element shall | | | | be included only when the | | | | originating client requests | | | | the floor. | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: If used, only one | | | | of these information | | | | elements shall be present. | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: Only one of these | | | | information elements shall | | | | be present. | | | | | | | | NOTE 7: This information | | | | element shall be included | | | | if the criteria for | | | | inviting the participants | | | | information element is | | | | present and end-to-end | | | | encryption is supported. | | | | | | | | NOTE 8: This information | | | | element shall not be | | | | included if the criteria | | | | for inviting the | | | | participants information | | | | element is present. | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
#### 7.1.2.2 Ad hoc group communication request return (MC service server --
MC service client)
Table 7.1.2.2-1 describes the information flow ad hoc group communication
request return from the MC service server to the MC service client.
Table 7.1.2.2-1 Ad hoc group communication request return information elements
Information Element Status Description
* * *
MC service ID M The MC service ID of the calling party MC service ad hoc group
ID M The MC service group ID to be associated with the ad hoc group
communication which could be same as generated by the MC service client or
assigned by the MC service server Authorization result M Indicate if
authorization is success or failure
#### 7.1.2.3 AHGC share security material command (MC service client -- MC
service server)
Table 7.1.2.3-1 describes the information flow AHGC share security material
command from the MC service client to MC service server.
Table 7.1.2.3-1 AHGC share security material command information elements
Information Element Status Description
* * *
MC service ID M The MC service ID of the calling party Functional alias O The
functional alias of the calling party MC service ad hoc group ID M The MC
service group ID which is generated by the MC service user to be associated
with the ad hoc group communication MC service ID M The MC service ID of the
user being invited for the ad hoc group communication Security key material M
Key material to be shared with the target participant for use with the ad hoc
group communication if end-to-end encryption supported
#### 7.1.2.4 Ad hoc group communication request (MC service server -- MC
service client)
Table 7.1.2.4-1 describes the information flow ad hoc group communication
request from the MC service server to the MC service client.
Table 7.1.2.4-1 Ad hoc group communication request information elements
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information Element | Status | Description | +=============================+========+=============================+ | MC service ID | M | The MC service ID of the | | | | calling party | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Functional alias | O | The functional alias of the | | | | calling party | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | MC service ad hoc group ID | M | The MC service group ID to | | | | be associated with the | | | | ad hoc group communication | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | SDP offer | M | Media parameters of MC | | | | service server | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Security key material | O | Key material for use with | | (see NOTE 1) | | the ad hoc group | | | | communication if end-to-end | | | | encryption supported | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Broadcast indicator | O | Indicates that the ad hoc | | | | group communication request | | | | is for a broadcast ad hoc | | | | group communication | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Imminent peril indicator | O | Indicates that the ad hoc | | (see NOTE 2) | | group communication request | | | | is an MC service imminent | | | | peril communication | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Emergency Indicator | O | Indicates that the ad hoc | | (see NOTE 2) | | group communication request | | | | is an MC service emergency | | | | communication | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Preconfigured ad hoc group | O | Group identity whose | | identity | | configuration is to be | | | | applied for this ad hoc | | | | group call. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | NOTE 1: This information | | | | element shall be present if | | | | the participants list is | | | | provided by the initiator | | | | and if end-to-end | | | | encryption is supported. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: If used, only one | | | | of these information | | | | elements shall be present. | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
#### 7.1.2.5 Ad hoc group communication response (MC service server -- MC
service client)
Table 7.1.2.5-1 describes the information flow ad hoc group communication
response from the MC service server to the MC service client.
Table 7.1.2.5-1 Ad hoc group communication response information elements
Information Element Status Description
* * *
MC service ID M The MC service ID of the calling party Functional alias O The
functional alias of the calling party MC service group ID M The MC service
group ID to be associated with the ad hoc group communication SDP answer M
Media parameters selected Result M Result of the group communication request
(success or failure)
#### 7.1.2.6 Ad hoc group communication response (MC service client -- MC
service server)
Table 7.1.2.6-1 describes the information flow ad hoc group communication
response from the MC service client to the MC service server.
Table 7.1.2.6-1 Ad hoc group communication response information elements
Information Element Status Description
* * *
MC service ID M The MC service ID of the target MC service user Functional
alias O The functional alias of the target MC service user MC service ad hoc
group ID M The MC service group ID to be associated with the ad hoc group
communication SDP answer M Media parameters selected Result M Result of the ad
hoc group communication request (success or failure)
#### 7.1.2.7 Ad hoc group communication release request (MC service server --
MC service client)
Table 7.1.2.7-1 describes the information flow ad hoc group communication
release request from the MC service server to the MC service client.
Table 7.1.2.7-1 Ad hoc group communication release request information
elements
Information Element Status Description
* * *
MC service ID M The MC service ID of the ad hoc group communication
participant Functional alias O The functional alias of the ad hoc group
communication participant MC service ad hoc group ID M The MC service group ID
of the ad hoc group communication on which communication is released
#### 7.1.2.8 Ad hoc group communication release response (MC service client --
MC service server)
Table 7.1.2.8-1 describes the information flow ad hoc group communication
release response from the MC service server to the MC service client.
Table 7.1.2.8-1 Ad hoc group communication release response information
elements
Information Element Status Description
* * *
MC service ID M The MC service ID of the ad hoc group communication
participant Functional alias O The functional alias of the ad hoc group
communication participant MC service group ID M The MC service group ID of the
ad hoc group communication on which communication is released
#### 7.1.2.9 Ad hoc group communication get userlist (MC service server -- MC
service server)
Table 7.1.2.9-1 describes the information flow ad hoc group communication get
userlist from one MC service server to another MC service server.
Table 7.1.2.9-1: Ad hoc group communication get userlist
Information element Status Description
* * *
Criteria for determining the participants M Carries the details of criteria or
meaningful label identifying the criteria or the combination of both which
will be used by the MC service server for determining the participants e.g.,
it can be a location based criteria to invite particpants in a particular area
#### 7.1.2.10 Ad hoc group communication get userlist response (MC service
server -- MC service server)
Table 7.1.2.10-1 describes the information flow ad hoc group communication get
userlist response from one MC service server to another MC service server.
Table 7.1.2.10-1: Ad hoc group communication get userlist response
Information element Status Description
* * *
MC service ID list M List of MC service IDs meeting the criteria specified in
the ad hoc group communication get userlist
#### 7.1.2.11 Group Call Notify (MC service server -- MC service client)
Table 7.1.2.11-1 describes the information flow group call notify from MC
service server to MC service client.
Table 7.1.2.11-1: Group Call Notify
Information element Status Description
* * *
MC service ID M The MC service ID of the calling party Functional alias O The
functional alias of the calling party MC service ad hoc group ID M The MC
service group ID associated with the ad hoc group communication MC service ID
list (see NOTE) O The list of the invited MC service users who did not
acknowledge the ad hoc group call request NOTE: Only applicable to
acknowledged group calls.
### 7.1.3 Procedure
#### 7.1.3.1 Ad hoc group communication within one MC system
##### 7.1.3.1.1 Ad hoc group communication setup
Figure 7.1.3.1.1-1 below illustrates the ad hoc group communication setup
procedure initiated by an authorized user.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The authorized user at MC service client 1 wants to invite MC service
users at MC service client 2, MC service client 3 and MC service client 4 for
the ad hoc group communication.
2\. Number of participants being invited for the communication is within the
limit for non pre-configured approach.
3\. End-to-End encryption is supported for this ad hoc group communication.
4\. MC service client 1 is aware of the MC service IDs of the participants and
has all the security related information required to communicate with the
participants of the ad hoc group communication.
NOTE: Selection of MC service IDs of the participants can be manual or from
the user profile configuration data or by any other means. This is left for
the implementation.
Figure 7.1.3.1.1-1: Ad hoc group communication setup
1\. User at MC service client 1 would like to initiate an ad hoc group
communication. MC service client 1 initiates the ad hoc group communication by
sending the ad hoc group communication request containing the list of
participants to the MC service server. Encryption supported information
element shall be set to true since end-to -end encryption is supported. The ad
hoc group communication request may also contain block sharing participants
list indicator information element set to true if the originating user want to
suppress sharing of the participants list to other users. The ad hoc group
communication request may include the MC service group ID that is created by
the MC service client 1 or not include the MC service group ID that allow the
MC service server to assign one for use. An SDP offer containing the MC
service client media parameters is included. If there is a floor request to
transmit, then the ad hoc group communication request contains an indication
of an implicit floor request. If the MC service user of MC service client 1
has selected a functional alias, then the ad hoc group communication request
contains that functional alias. If the ad hoc group communication request
contains an implicit floor request it may also include location information.
If the MC service user at MC service client 1 initiates an MC service
emergency ad hoc group communication or the MC service emergency state is
already set for the MC service client 1 (due to a previously triggered MC
service emergency alert):
i. the MC service ad hoc group communication request shall contain an
emergency indicator;
ii. if the MC service emergency state is not set already, MC service client 1
sets its MC service emergency state. The MC service emergency state of MC
service client 1 is retained until explicitly cancelled by the user of MC
service client 1.
2\. The MC service server accepts the ad hoc group communication request if
the ad hoc group communication is supported and authorized. Otherwise reject
the ad hoc group communication request and do not continue with the rest of
the steps. If authorised, it validates whether the number of invited
participants is within the configured limit before proceeding with the
communication setup.
If functional alias is present, the MC service server checks whether the
provided functional alias is allowed to be used and has been activated for the
user.
If location information was included in the ad hoc group communication
request, the MC service server checks the privacy policy of the MC service
user to decide if the location information of MC service client 1 can be
provided to other users on the communication (refer to Annex A.3
\"Authorisation to provide location information to other MC service users on a
communication when talking\").
> If an emergency indicator is present in the received MC service ad hoc group
> communication request, the MC service ad hoc group is considered to be in
> the in-progress emergency state until this ad hoc group communication is
> terminated; and
>
> If an imminent peril indicator is present in the received MC service ad hoc
> group communication request, the MC service ad hoc group is considered to be
> in the in-progress imminent peril state until this ad hoc group
> communication is terminated.
>
> The MC service server considers the ad hoc group communication participants
> as implicitly affiliated to the ad hoc group.
>
> 3\. The MC service server shall send the ad hoc group communication request
> return message to MC service client 1 containing the below:
i. The MC service ad hoc group ID (e.g. either provided by MC service client 1
which is acceptable to the MC service server or generated by the MC service
server in the case where the MC service ad hoc group ID created by the MC
service client 1 is not acceptable or the case where the MC service ad hoc
group ID was not provided by MC service client 1); and
ii. Result of whether the ad hoc group communication is authorized or not
> If the ad hoc group communication request is not authorized, MC service
> client 1 shall not proceed with the rest of the steps.
4a-4c. MC service client 1 sends AHGC share security material command
targeting each of the participants containing the security material to be
shared with the participants for use in this ad hoc group communication.
NOTE 1: If end-to-end encryption is not supported, then the ad hoc group
communication security material requests are not sent.
5a-5c. The MC service server sends the ad hoc group communication requests
towards the MC service clients of the invited users based on step 1. While
sending the ad hoc group communication requests, the MC service server shall
remove the information elements that are not required to be conveyed to the
target MC service clients (e.g. Block sharing participants list indicator, MC
service ID list of the users who are required to acknowledge)
6a-6c. The receiving MC service clients are notified about the incoming ad hoc
group communication.
7a-7c. The receiving MC service clients accept the ad hoc group communication
requests and send ad hoc group communication responses to the MC service
server. The response may also contain a functional alias of the responding MC
service user, which is verified (valid and activated for the user) by the MC
service server.
8\. The MC service server sends the ad hoc group communication response to MC
service client 1 through the signalling path to inform about successful
communication establishment.
NOTE 2: Steps 5 to step 7 can start to occur before all of step 4 is completed
since the MC service server do not require to wait for the previous ad hoc
group communication request to complete before sending the ad hoc group
request to another participant.
9\. If the initiating MC service user requires the acknowledgement from the
invited MC service users, and the required MC service users do not acknowledge
the communication setup within a configured time (the \"acknowledged
communication setup timeout\"), then the MC service server may proceed with or
abandon the communication and then notify the initiating MC service user that
the acknowledgements did not include all required members according to ad hoc
group communication policy from the user profile configuration. The MC service
server may notify the initiating MC service user of all MC service users who
did not acknowledge the ad hoc group communication request within the
configured time. This notification may be sent to the initiating MC service
user by the MC service server more than once during the communication when MC
service users join or leave the MC service ad hoc group communication.
10\. MC service client 1, MC service client 2, MC service client 3 and MC
service client 4 establish media plane and floor control resources.
NOTE 3: Step 10 can occur any time following step 8 if the conditions to
proceed with the communication are met.
##### 7.1.3.1.2 Release ad hoc group communication
The procedure focuses on the case where the MC service server releases an
ongoing MC service ad hoc group communication for all the participants of that
ad hoc group communication, since at least one of the release conditions are
met e.g., due to hang time expiry, last participant leaving, second last
participant leaving, initiator leaving.
Figure 7.1.3.1.2-1 below illustrates the signalling control plane procedure
for the MC service server initiating termination an ongoing ad hoc group
communication.
Figure 7.1.3.1.2-1: Release ad hoc group communication
1\. It is assumed that MC service users on MC service client 1, client 2 and
client 3 are already part of the ongoing ad hoc group communication.
2\. MC service server would like to release the MC service ad hoc group
communication which is ongoing e.g., due to hang time expiry, last participant
leaving, second last participant leaving, initiator leaving.
3\. MC service server identifies the participants of the ongoing ad hoc group
communication and generates ad hoc group communication release request to
release ongoing session. The MC service server cancels the in-progress
emergency state or in-progress imminent peril state of the ad hoc group if the
ad hoc group communication is an emergency or imminent peril communication
respectively.
4\. MC service server sends ad hoc group communication release request via SIP
core towards each participant of the ongoing ad hoc group communication.
5\. MC service users are notified about the release of the ad hoc group
communication.
6\. MC service client(s) receiving ad hoc group communication release request,
acknowledge towards the MC service server by sending an ad hoc group
communication release response.
NOTE: If the participants list is not suppressed by the initiator of the ad
hoc group communication, the MC service client(s) may choose to store the list
of participants for easy re-initiation of another ad hoc group communication
with the same participants.
7\. MC service client 1, client 2 and client 3 have successfully released the
floor control and media plane resources associated with the ad hoc group
communication that is terminated and the ad hoc group ceases to exist (i.e.,
further communication is not possible over the same ad hoc group.
##### 7.1.3.1.3 MC service server determining the participants list for the Ad
hoc group communication setup
Figure 7.1.3.1.3-1 below illustrates the ad hoc group communication setup
procedure initiated by the MC service user and MC service client 1 wherein the
list of participants is determined by the MC service server based on the
citeria received from the MC service client.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The MC service user at MC service client 1 is authorized to initate ad hoc
group communication.
2\. The MC service user at MC service client 1 wants to invite MC service
users who are satisying certain criteria for the ad hoc group communication.
Figure 7.1.3.1.3-1: Ad hoc group communication participants determined by MC
service server
1\. User at MC service client 1 would like to initiate an ad hoc group
communication in-order to invite the participants satisfying specific
criteria. MC service client 1 initiates the ad hoc group communication by
sending the ad hoc group communication request containing the details of the
criteria to be applied by the MC service server for determining the
participants list. If end-to-end encryption is supported Encryption supported
information element shall be set to true and pre-configured ad hoc group
identity whose configuration is to be applied is included. The ad hoc group
communication request may include the MC service group ID that is created by
the MC service client 1 or not include the MC service group ID that allow the
MC service server to assign one for use. An SDP offer containing the MC
service client media parameters is included. If there is a floor request to
transmit, then the ad hoc group communication request contains an indication
of an implicit floor request. If the MC service user of MC service client 1
has selected a functional alias, then the ad hoc group communication request
contains that functional alias. If the ad hoc group communication request
contains an implicit floor request it may also include location information.
If the MC service user at MC service client 1 initiates an MC service
emergency ad hoc group communication or the MC service emergency state is
already set for the MC service client 1 (due to a previously triggered MC
service emergency alert):
i. the MC service ad hoc group communication request shall contain an
emergency indicator;
ii. if the MC service emergency state is not set already, MC service client 1
sets its MC service emergency state. The MC service emergency state of MC
service client 1 is retained until explicitly cancelled by the user of MC
service client 1.
2\. The MC service server accepts the ad hoc group communication request if
the ad hoc group communication is supported and authorized. Otherwise reject
the ad hoc group communication request and do not continue with the rest of
the steps.
If functional alias is present, the MC service server checks whether the
provided functional alias is allowed to be used and has been activated for the
user.
If location information was included in the ad hoc group communication
request, the MC service server checks the privacy policy of the MC service
user to decide if the location information of MC service client 1 can be
provided to other users on the communication (refer to Annex A.3
\"Authorisation to provide location information to other MC service users on a
communication when talking\").
If an emergency indicator is present in the received MC service ad hoc group
communication request, the MC service ad hoc group is considered to be in the
in-progress emergency state until this ad hoc group communication is
terminated; and
If an imminent peril indicator is present in the received MC service ad hoc
group communication request, the MC service ad hoc group is considered to be
in the in-progress imminent peril state until this ad hoc group communication
is terminated.
3\. The MC service server shall send the ad hoc group communication request
return message to MC service client 1 containing the below:
i. The MC service ad hoc group ID (e.g. either provided by MC service client 1
which is acceptable to the MC service server or generated by the MC service
server in the case where the MC service ad hoc group ID created by the MC
service client 1 is not acceptable or the case where the MC service ad hoc
group ID was not provided by MC service client 1); and
ii. Result of whether the ad hoc group communication is authorized or not
If the ad hoc group communication request is not authorized, MC service server
and client 1 shall not proceed with the rest of the steps.
4\. The MC service server determines the list of participants to be invited
for the ad hoc group communication based on the information present in the
information element Criteria for determining the participants. This
information element could carry either criteria or indicator identifying the
criteria or combination of both.
5\. The MC service server sends the ad hoc group communication requests
towards the MC service clients 2 and 3. While sending the ad hoc group
communication requests, the MC service server shall remove the information
elements that are not required to be conveyed to the target MC service
clients. This request carries the pre-configured group ID whose configuration
is to be applied for this ad hoc group communication if end-to-end encryption
is requested. The MC service server considers the ad hoc group communication
participants as implicitly affiliated to the ad hoc group.
6\. The receiving MC service clients are notified about the incoming ad hoc
group communication.
7\. The receiving MC service clients accept the ad hoc group communication
requests and send ad hoc group communication responses to the MC service
server. The response may also contain a functional alias of the responding MC
service user, which is verified (valid and activated for the user) by the MC
service server.
8\. The MC service server sends the ad hoc group communication response to MC
service client 1 through the signalling path to inform about successful
communication establishment.
9\. The MC service server may notify the initiating MC service user of all MC
service users who acknowledged the ad hoc group communication request and
joined the ad hoc group communication. This notification may be sent to the
initiating MC service user by the MC service server more than once during the
communication when MC service users join or leave the MC service ad hoc group
communication.
10\. MC service client 1, MC service client 2 and MC service client 3
establish media plane and floor control resources.
#### 7.1.3.2 Ad hoc group communication involving multiple MC system
##### 7.1.3.2.1 Ad hoc group communication setup -- Participants list provided
by the initiator
Figure 7.1.3.2.1-1 below illustrates the ad hoc group communication setup
procedure initiated by an authorized user involving the MC service users from
multiple MC system.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The authorized user at MC service client 1 wants to invite MC service
users at MC service client 2, MC service client 3 and MC service client 4 for
the ad hoc group communication.
2\. MC service client 1 and MC service client 2 are registered to the MC
service provider 1. MC service client 3 and MC service client 4 are registered
to MC service provider 2.
3\. Number of participants being invited for the communication is within the
limit.
4\. End-to-End encryption is supported for this ad hoc group communication.
5\. MC service client 1 has all the security related information required to
communicate with the participants of the ad hoc group communication.
Figure 7.1.3.2.1-1: Ad hoc group communication setup involving multiple MC
systems
1-5a. Same as described in sub-clause 7.1.3.1.1.
5b-5c. The MC service server sends the ad hoc group communication requests for
MC service client 3 and MC service client 4 to the MC service server 2. While
sending the ad hoc group communication requests, the MC service server shall
remove the information elements that are not required to be conveyed to the
target MC service clients (e.g. Block sharing participants list indicator, MC
service ID list of the users who are required to acknowledge) and shall
include the security key material as received in steps 4b and 4c.
6a-6b. The MC service server 2 forwards the ad hoc group communication
requests to the MC service client 3 and MC service client 4.
7a-7c. The receiving MC service clients are notified about the incoming ad hoc
group communication.
8\. The MC service client 2 accept the ad hoc group communication request and
send ad hoc group communication response to the MC service server 1.
9a-9b. The MC service client 3 and MC service client 4 accepts the ad hoc
group communication request and sends ad hoc group communication responses to
the MC service server 2.
10a-10b. The MC service server 2 forwards the responses to the MC service
server 1.
11\. The MC service server sends the ad hoc group communication response to MC
service client 1 through the signalling path to inform about successful
communication establishment.
12\. The MC service server may notify the initiating MC service user of all MC
service users who acknowledged the ad hoc group communication request and
joined the ad hoc group communication. This notification may be sent to the
initiating MC service user by the MC service server more than once during the
communication when MC service users join or leave the MC service ad hoc group
communication.
13\. MC service client 1, MC service client 2, MC service client 3 and MC
service client 4 establish media plane and floor control resources.
NOTE: How to handle the end-to-end encryption when the MC service client 1
does not have the required security related information to communicate with
the participants of the ad hoc group communication is in the scope of SA3.
##### 7.1.3.2.2 Ad hoc group communication setup -- Participants list
determined by the MC service server
Figure 7.1.3.2.2-1 below illustrates the ad hoc group communication setup
procedure initiated by an authorized user wherein the list of participants is
determined by the MC service server based on the citeria received from the MC
service client and determined MC service users are from multiple MC systems.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The MC service user at MC service client 1 is authorized to initate ad hoc
group communication.
2\. End-to-End encryption is supported for this ad hoc group communication.
**Figure 7.1.3.2.2-1: Ad hoc group communication setup involving multiple MC
systems**
1-4. Same as described in sub-clause 7.1.3.1.3.
5\. MC service server 1 if it needs to involve the partner system based on the
agreement and based on the criteria for determining the participants list,
sends the ad hoc group communication get userlist request to the MC service
server 2. This request carries the criteria specified in the step 1 .
6\. MC service server 2 evaluates the criteria and determines the particpants
satisfying the criteria and sends the response containing the list of MC
service users satisfying the criteria
7\. The MC service server 1 sends the ad hoc group communication request
towards the MC service server 2. This request carries the list of MC service
users who needs to be invited for this ad hoc group communication and are
registered with MC service server 2. It also carries the pre-configured group
ID whose configuration is to be applied for this ad hoc group communication if
end-to-end encryption is requested.
8a-8b. The MC service server 2 sends the ad hoc group communication request
towards the MC service client 3 and MC service client 4.
9\. The MC service server 1 sends the ad hoc group communication requests
towards the MC service client 2. While sending the ad hoc group communication
request, the MC service server shall remove the information elements that are
not required to be conveyed to the target MC service clients. This request
carries the pre-configured group ID whose configuration is to be applied for
this ad hoc group communication if end-to-end encryption is requested. The MC
service server considers the ad hoc group communication participants as
implicitly affiliated to the ad hoc group.
10a-10c. The receiving MC service clients are notified about the incoming ad
hoc group communication.
11\. The MC service client 2 accept the ad hoc group communication request and
send ad hoc group communication response to the MC service server 1.
12a-12b. The MC service client 3 and MC service client 4 accepts the ad hoc
group communication request and sends ad hoc group communication responses to
the MC service server 2.
13a-13b. The MC service server 2 forwards the responses to the MC service
server 1.
14\. The MC service server 1 sends the ad hoc group communication response to
MC service client 1 through the signalling path to inform about successful
communication establishment.
15\. The MC service server 1 may notify the initiating MC service user of all
MC service users who acknowledged the ad hoc group communication request and
joined the ad hoc group communication. This notification may be sent to the
initiating MC service user by the MC service server 1 more than once during
the communication when MC service users join or leave the MC service ad hoc
group communication.
16\. MC service client 1, MC service client 2, MC service client 3 and MC
service client 4 establish media plane and floor control resources.
### 7.1.4 Solution Evaluation
The procedures proposed as part of this solution handles the ad hoc group
communication setup and release as per the key issue 1. It also achieves the
end-to-end security as per the stage-1 requirements. This solution introduces
a new set of information flows required for ad hoc group communication. It
also proposes a mechanism for the ad hoc group communication setup wherein the
particpants of the communication is determined by the MC service server based
on the criteria which is either pre-defined or supplied by the initiator of
the communication.
Further the proposed solutions provide flexibility for the deployments to use
the ad hoc group ID provided by the MC service client or the MC service server
can generate and share the same to the initiator of the ad hoc group
communication. This solution may require additional deployment considerations
e.g. to configure the maximum number of participants allowed to participate in
an ad hoc group communication, to meet the Stage 1 group call KPIs.
The procedures proposed as part of this solution implicitly handles the Key
issue #2 related to network topology hiding from MC service client while
establishing Ad hoc group communication by having the ad hoc group ID
generated by the MC service server.
## 7.2 Solution 2: Ad hoc group call involving multiple MC systems
### 7.2.1 General
This solution pertains to key issue#1. The key characteristics of ad hoc group
call are the following:
\- The ad hoc group does not exist until it is spontaneously created during
the ad hoc group call setup.
\- The ad hoc group ceases to exist when the communication terminates with the
ad hoc group call release.
### 7.2.2 Solution description
#### 7.2.2.1 Procedures
##### 7.2.2.1.1 Procedure for ad hoc group call setup
Figure 7.2.2.1.1-1 illustrates the procedure for ad hoc group call setup
procedure.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The security aspects of sharing the user information between primary and
partner MC systems shall be governed as per the service provider agreement
between them. In this case, we consider the partner MC system does not share
their users\' information to the primary MC system.
2\. The authorized MC service user/dispatcher belongs to the primary MC
system.
3\. The MC service server of the primary MC system is where the authorized MC
service user/dispatcher creates the ad hoc group.
4\. Some users of the ad hoc group may belong to partner MC systems.
5\. The ad hoc group identity and ad hoc group configuration for an ad hoc
group have been preconfigured in MC service client and other participants of
ad hoc group have also received the relevant security related information to
allow them to communicate in an ad hoc group communication.
6\. The call initiating MC service client is aware of a suitable preconfigured
ad hoc group whose configuration has been preconfigured in the MC service UEs
who are the participants of the ad hoc group.
Figure 7.2.2.1.1-1: Ad hoc group call setup
1\. The MC service client of authorized user initiates a group call with
multiple users from primary and partner MC systems. A group call request
message with the information of the MC service IDs and the pre-configured ad
hoc group is routed to the MC service server of the primary MC system.
2\. The MC service server of the primary MC system forms the ad hoc group by
using MC service users\' information and the configuration of the
preconfigured ad hoc group received in step 1 and assigns a MC service group
ID for the newly formed ad hoc group. It identifies the appropriate MC service
server responsible for the MC service users of the ad hoc group. The MC
service users are automatically affiliated to the ad hoc group.
NOTE 1: The newly formed ad hoc group information including the MC service
group ID and the list of users is held in dynamic data in the MC service
server.
3\. The MC service server of the primary MC system sends the group call
request to the affiliated group members of the ad hoc group belonging to the
primary MC system.
4\. The MC service clients receive in the group call request the information
of the MC service group ID for the ad hoc group and further notify their
corresponding MC service user. The affiliated group members of the ad hoc
group of the primary MC system may accept or reject the call and respond with
the group call response.
5\. The primary MC service server further initiates a group call request
message to the MC service server of the partner MC system for the ad hoc
group\'s MC service users\' belonging to partner MC system.
6\. Upon receiving the group call request message from the MC service server
of the primary MC system, the MC service server of the partner MC system
initiates a call invitation to its MC service users and sends the group call
request to the MC service users of the partner MC system.
7\. The MC service clients receive in the group call request the information
of the MC service group ID for the ad hoc group and further notify their
corresponding MC service user. The MC service users upon receipt of the
invitation may accept or reject the call, and respond with the group call
response.
8\. The MC service server of the partner MC system provides a group call
response message to the MC service server of the primary MC system with
success or failure result and/or detailed reason information in case of
failure.
9\. The MC service server of the primary MC system provides a group call
response message to the MC service client of the authorized MC service user
upon receiving response to the corresponding group call request with the MC
service server of the partner MC system. The group call response will consist
of the success or failure result and/or detailed reason information in case of
failure. The MC service client 1 receives the MC service group ID assigned for
the ad hoc group via this step.
NOTE 2: The group call response message is triggered depending on the
conditions to proceed with the call.
10\. Upon successful group call setup, a group call is established amongst the
multiple group members from primary and partner MC systems. The media plane
and floor control resources are established.
##### 7.2.2.1.2 Procedure for ad hoc group call release
This procedure focuses on the case where an MC service server initiates the
termination of an ongoing MC service ad hoc group call for all the
participants of that group call, since at least one of the termination
conditions are met e.g., due to hang time expiry, last participant leaving,
second last participant leaving, initiator leaving, or minimum number of
affiliated MC service group members are not present.
Procedures in figure 7.2.2.2-1 are the signalling control plane procedures for
the MC service server initiating termination of an ongoing MC service ad hoc
group call.
Figure 7.2.2.2-1: Ad hoc group call release
1\. It is assumed that MC service users on MC service client 1, client 2
belonging to primary MC system and client 3 belonging to partner MC system are
already part of the ongoing ad hoc group call (e.g. as a result of ad hoc
group call setup as specified in clause 7.2.2.1.1).
2\. The MC service server would like to release the MC service group call
which is ongoing e.g., due to hang time expiry, last participant leaving,
second last participant leaving, initiator leaving, or minimum number of
affiliated MC service group members are not present.
3\. The MC service server identifies the participants of the ongoing ad hoc
group call and generates group call release request to release ongoing
session.
4\. The MC service server sends a group call release request via SIP core
towards each participant of the ongoing group call. If the participants belong
to partner MC system, then group call release request is sent to the partner
MC service server, which further sends the group call release request to the
MC service clients.
5\. The MC service users are notified about the release of the ad hoc group
call.
6\. The MC service client(s) receiving group call release request, send
acknowledgement towards the MC service server by sending a group call release
response.
7\. The MC service client 1, client 2 and client 3 have successfully released
the floor control and media plane resources associated with the group call
that is terminated. The MC service servers remove the ad hoc group information
from the dynamic data held in the MC service servers and thus the ad hoc group
ceases to exist.
#### 7.3.2.1 Information Flows
##### 7.3.2.1.1 Group call request (MC service client -- MC service server)
Table 7.3.2.1.1-1 describes the information flow group call request from the
MC service client to the MC service server. The group call request information
flow specified in MC service specifications is to be updated accordingly as
shown in **bold**.
Table 7.3.2.1.1-1 Group call request information elements
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information Element | Status | Description | +=============================+========+=============================+ | MC service ID | M | The MC service ID of the | | | | calling party | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Functional alias | O | The functional alias of the | | | | calling party | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | MC service group ID | **O** | The MC service group ID of | | **(see NOTE 1)** | | the group on which the call | | | | is requested | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | **MC service ID list |** O**|** The list of MC service | | (see NOTE 2)**| | IDs on which the group call | | | | is requested.** | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | **Preconfigured ad hoc |** O**|** Ad hoc group identity | | group identity | | whose configuration is to | | (see NOTE 2)**| | be applied on the group | | | | call.** | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | SDP offer | M | Media parameters of MC PTT | | | | clients | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Implicit floor request | O | When originating client | | | | requests the floor, this | | | | element shall be included | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Broadcast indicator | O | Indicates that the group | | | | call request is for a | | | | broadcast group call | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Location information | O | Location of the calling | | | | party. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Requested priority | O | Application priority level | | | | requested for this call | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | **NOTE 1: This IE may be | | | | included when the group | | | | call is an ad hoc group | | | | call. This IE is always | | | | included for other group | | | | calls** | | | | | | | | **NOTE 2: These IEs are | | | | included when the group | | | | call is an ad hoc group | | | | call.** | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
##### 7.3.2.1.2 Group call request (MC service server -- MC service server)
Table 7.3.2.1.2-1 describes the information flow group call request between
the MC service servers. The group call request information flow specified in
MC service specifications is to be updated accordingly as shown in **bold**.
Table 7.3.2.1.2-1 Group call request information elements
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information Element | Status | Description | +=============================+========+=============================+ | MC service ID | M | The MC service ID of the | | | | calling party | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Functional alias | O | The functional alias of the | | | | calling party | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | MC service group ID | M | The MC service group ID of | | **(see NOTE 3)** | | the group on which the call | | | | is initiated | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | **MC service ID list |** O**|** The list of MC service | | (see NOTE 2)**| | IDs of ad hoc group\'s MC | | | | service users\' belonging | | | | to partner MC system on | | | | which the group call is | | | | requested.** | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | **Preconfigured ad hoc |** O**|** Ad hoc group identity | | group identity | | whose configuration is to | | (see NOTE 2)**| | be applied on the group | | | | call.** | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | SDP offer | M | Media parameters of MC | | | | service server | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Broadcast indicator | O | Indicates that the group | | | | call request is for a | | | | broadcast group call | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Implicit floor request | O | Indicates that the | | (see NOTE 1) | | originating client requests | | | | the floor. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Requested priority | O | Priority level requested | | | | for the call. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Location information | O | Location of the calling | | | | party | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | NOTE 1: This element shall | | | | be included only when the | | | | originating client requests | | | | the floor. | | | | | | | | **NOTE 2: These IEs are | | | | included when the group | | | | call request is for ad hoc | | | | group call.** | | | | | | | | **NOTE 3: If Preconfigured | | | | ad hoc group identity IE or | | | | MC service ID list is | | | | included then MC service | | | | group ID IE indicates the | | | | MC service group ID of the | | | | ad hoc group.** | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
##### 7.3.2.1.3 Group call request (MC service server -- MC service client)
Table 7.3.2.1.3-1 describes the information flow group call request from the
MC service server to the MC service client. The group call request information
flow specified in MC service specifications is to be updated accordingly as
shown in **bold**.
Table 7.3.2.1.3-1 Group call request information elements
Information Element Status Description
* * *
MC service ID M The MC service ID of the calling party Functional alias O The
functional alias of the calling party MC service group ID M The MC service
group ID of the group on which the call is initiated. **Preconfigured ad hoc
group identity (see NOTE 1)** **O** **Ad hoc group identity whose
configuration is to be applied on the group call.** SDP offer M Media
parameters of MC service server Broadcast indicator O Indicates that the group
call request is for a broadcast group call **NOTE 1: This IE is included when
the group call request is for ad hoc group call.**
##### 7.3.2.1.4 Group call response (MC service server -- MC service client)
Table 7.3.2.1.4-1 describes the information flow group call response from the
MC service server to the MC service client. No change is expected to the group
call response information flow specified in MC service specifications.
Table 7.3.2.1.4-1 Group call response information elements
Information Element Status Description
* * *
MC service ID M The MC service ID of the calling party Functional alias O The
functional alias of the calling party MC service group ID M The MC service
group ID of the group on which the call is requested SDP answer M Media
parameters selected Result M Result of the group call request (success or
failure)
##### 7.3.2.1.5 Group call response (MC service server -- MC service server)
Table 7.3.2.1.5-1 describes the information flow group call response between
the MC service servers. No change is expected to the group call response
information flow specified in MC service specifications.
Table 7.3.2.1.5-1 Group call response information elements
Information Element Status Description
* * *
MC service ID M The MC service ID of the target MC service group member
Functional alias O The functional alias of the target MC service group member
MC service group ID M The MC service group ID of the group on which the call
is requested SDP answer M Media parameters selected Result M Result of the
group call request (success or failure)
##### 7.3.2.1.6 Group call response (MC service client -- MC service server)
Table 7.3.2.1.6-1 describes the information flow group call response from the
MC service client to the MC service server. No change is expected to the group
call response information flow specified in MC service specifications.
Table 7.3.2.1.6-1 Group call response information elements
Information Element Status Description
* * *
MC service ID M The MC service ID of the target MC service group member
Functional alias O The functional alias of the target MC service group member
MC service group ID M The MC service group ID of the group on which the call
is initiated SDP answer M Media parameters selected Result M Result of the
group call request (success or failure)
### 7.3.3 Solution Evaluation
This is a viable solution to setup and release an ad hoc group call where the
ad hoc group is created during the group call setup and the ad hoc group is
removed when the group call is released thus the ad hoc group ceases to exist.
This procedure achieves the required performance and security as per the stage
1 requirements for a group call. The group call security is achieved via the
use of a preconfigured ad hoc group information and its group security
information is applied on the ad hoc group call.
## 7.3 Solution 3: Configuration parameters required for Ad hoc group
communication
### 7.3.1 General
This solution addresses the key issue 3 described in clause 4.3 on
configuration parameters required for supporting ad hoc group communication.
This clause identifies the list of configuration parameters and which category
of the configuration data they belong to.
### 7.3.2 MC service configuration data
Table 7.3.2-1 describes MCPTT service configuration data required for the ad
hoc group communication.
Table 7.3.2-1: MCPTT service configuration data (on‑network)
Reference Parameter description MCPTT UE MCPTT server Configuration management
server
* * *
[R-6.15.5.3-005] of 3GPP TS 22.280 [17] Support of ad hoc group call Y Y Y
[R-6.15.5.3-002] of 3GPP TS 22.280 [17] Maximum number of particpants allowed
to participate in an ad hoc group communication Y Y Y [R-6.15.5.3-004] of 3GPP
TS 22.280 [17] Hang timer for ad hoc group communication N Y Y Maximum
duration for ad hoc group communication Y Y Y List of preferred voice codecs
for ad hoc group call Y Y Y
### 7.3.3 MC service user profile configuration data
Table 7.3.3-1 describes MCPTT user profile configuration data required for the
ad hoc group communication.
Table 7.3.3-1: MCPTT user profile configuration data (on‑network)
Reference Parameter description MCPTT UE MCPTT server Configuration management
server MCPTT user database
* * *
                                                Permissions related to ad hoc group communication
[R-6.15.5.3-001] of 3GPP TS 22.280 [17] > Authorised to initiate ad hoc group
call Y Y Y Y R-6.15.5.3-003] of 3GPP TS 22.280 [17] > Authorised to
participate in ad hoc group call Y Y Y Y > Authorised to initiate emergency ad
hoc group call Y Y Y Y > Authorised to initiate imminent peril ad hoc group
call Y Y Y Y
### 7.3.4 Solution Evaluation
This solution provides additional configuration parameters that are required
to support MCX ad hoc group communication procedures. Parameters proposed as
part of this solution are based on the requirements specified in 3GPP TS
22.280 [3].
## 7.4 Solution 4: Modifying participants list of on-going ad hoc group
communication
### 7.4.1 General
This solution addresses the key issue 4 described in clause 4.4 on Modifying
participants list of on-going ad hoc group communication. Information flows
and procedures that are required to address the key issue 4 are addressed in
this section.
### 7.4.2 Information flows
#### 7.4.2.1 Modify ad hoc Group call participants request (MC service client
-- MC service server)
Table 7.4.2.1-1 describes the information flow Modify ad hoc Group call
participants request from the MC service client to the MC service server.
Table 7.4.2.1-1 Modify ad hoc group call participants request information
elements
Information Element Status Description
* * *
MC service ID M The MC service ID of the calling party Functional alias O The
functional alias of the calling party MC service ad hoc group ID M The MC
service group ID of ad hoc group call whose participants list needs to be
modified MC service ID list (see NOTE 1) O List of additional MC service users
to be added to the on-going ad hoc group call MC service ID list (see NOTE 1)
O List of MC service users to be removed from the on-going ad hoc group call
NOTE 1 : Either one or both of these elements shall be present
#### 7.4.2.2 Modify ad hoc group call participants response (MC service server
-- MC service client)
Table 7.4.2.2-1 describes the information flow Modify ad hoc group call
participants response from the MC service server to the MC service client.
Table 7.4.2.2-1 Modify Ad hoc group call participants response information
elements
Information Element Status Description
* * *
MC service ID M The MC service ID of the calling party Functional alias O The
functional alias of the calling party MC service ad hoc group ID M The MC
service group ID of ad hoc group call whose participants list needs to be
modified Result M Result of the modify ad hoc group call participants request
(success of failure) MC service ID list O List of MC service users who are not
allowed to be added to the on-going ad hoc group call
#### 7.4.2.3 Ad hoc group call leave request (MC service server -- MC service
client)
Table 7.4.2.3-1 describes the information flow ad hoc group call leave request
from the MC service server to the MC service client.
Table 7.4.2.3-1 Ad hoc group call leave request information elements
Information Element Status Description
* * *
MC service ID M The MC service ID of the ad hoc group call participant leaving
the call MC service ad hoc group ID M The MC service group ID of ad hoc group
call on which call is on-going Reason to leave O Carries the reason of why the
MC service client is being asked to leave the ongoing ad hoc group call
#### 7.4.2.4 Ad hoc group call leave response (MC service client -- MC service
server)
Table 7.4.2.4-1 describes the information flow Ad hoc group call leave
response from the MC service client to the MC service server.
Table 7.4.2.4-1 Ad hoc group call leave response information elements
Information Element Status Description
* * *
MC service ID M The MC service ID of the ad hoc group call participant leaving
the call MC service ad hoc group ID M The MC service group ID of ad hoc group
call on which call is on-going
### 7.4.3 Procedure
#### 7.4.3.1 Modification of ad hoc group communication participants by the
initiator
Figure 7.4.3.1-1 below illustrates the modification of ad hoc group
communication participants procedure by the initiator of the ad hoc group
communication.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The MC service client 1 is the initiator of the ad hoc group
communication.
2\. The MC service users on MC service client 1, MC service client 3 to MC
service client n are on an ongoing ad hoc group communication.
3\. The MC service user 1 requests to remove the user of MC service client 3
from the ad hoc group communication and add user of MC service client 2 into
the on-going ad hoc group communication.
Figure 7.4.3.1-1: Modification of ad hoc group communication participants by
the initiator
1\. The MC service client 1 sends the modify ad hoc group call participants
request to the MC service server inorder to remove MC service client 3 from
the ongoing ad hoc group communication and add MC service client 2 into it.
2\. The MC service server verifies whether the MC service client 1 is
authorized to add or remove(modify) the participants of the on-going ad hoc
group communication.
3\. The MC service server sends the modify ad hoc group communication
participants response to the MC service client 1.
4\. The MC service server sends the ad hoc group call leave request to the MC
service client 3 in order to remove it from the on-going ad hoc group
communication.
5\. The MC service client 3 notifies the user of the ad hoc group call leave
request.
6\. The MC service client 3 sends the ad hoc group call leave response to the
MC service server.
7\. The MC service server removes the MC service client 3 from the ongoing ad
hoc group communication.
8\. MC service client 1 sends AHGC share security material command to the MC
service targeting MC service client 2 containing the security material to be
shared with the MC service client 2 for use in this ad hoc group
communication.
NOTE: Steps 8 to 11 can occur at any time following step 3.
9\. The MC service server sends the ad hoc group communication request towards
MC service client 2.
10\. The receiving MC service client 2 notifies the user about the incoming ad
hoc group communication.
11\. The MC service client 2 accepts the ad hoc group communication request
and send ad hoc group communication responses to the MC service server. The
response may also contain a functional alias of the responding MC service
user, which is verified (valid and activated for the user) by the MC service
server.
12\. The MC service server may notify the initiating MC service user of all
the users who are added to the on-going ad hoc group communication. This
notification may be sent to the initiating MC service user by the MC service
server more than once during the call when MC service users join or leave the
ad hoc group communication.
13\. The MC service server may notify the participants about the change in the
participants list of on-going ad hoc group communication.
#### 7.4.3.2 Modification of ad hoc group communication participants by the MC
service server
Figure 7.4.3.2-1 below illustrates the modification of ad hoc group
communication participants procedure by the MC service server.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The MC service client 1 is the initiator of the ad hoc group
communication.
2\. MC service server determined the participants for the ad hoc group
communication based on the criteria specified by the MC service client 1 while
initiating the ad hoc group communication.
3\. MC service server continuously evaluates the criteria to monitor the list
of users who meets or not meets the criteria for participating in the on-going
ad hoc group communication.
4\. The MC service server detects that the MC service client 5 satisfies the
criteria and MC service client 4 stops to meet the criteria specified by the
MC service client 1.
Figure 7.4.3.2-1: Modification of ad hoc group communication participants by
the MC service server
1\. The ad hoc group communication is established and on-going with the
participants MC service client 1, MC service client 2, MC service client 3 and
MC service client 4. The participants list is determined by the MC service
server based on the criteria specified by the MC service client 1 while
initiating the communication
2\. The MC service server detects that the MC service client 5 satisfies the
criteria specified by the MC service client.
3\. The MC service server sends the ad hoc group communication request to the
MC service client 5.
4\. The MC service client 5 notifies the user about the incoming ad hoc group
communication.
5\. The MC service client 5 accepts the ad hoc group communication request and
sends the ad hoc group communication response to the MC service server.
6\. The on-going ad hoc group communication is updated by adding MC service
client 5 which satisfies the criteria specified by the MC service client 1.
7\. The MC service server detects that the MC service client 4 is no more
satisfying the criteria to be the participant of the ad hoc group
communication.
8\. The MC service server sends the ad hoc group communication leave request
to the MC service client 4 and removes it from the on-going ad hoc group
communication.
9\. The MC service client 4 notifies the user of the ad hoc group call leave
request.
10\. The MC service client 4 sends the ad hoc group communication leave
response to the MC service server.
11\. The on-going ad hoc group communication is updated by removing MC service
client 4 which no more satisfies the criteria specified by the MC service
client 1.
### 7.4.4 Solution evaluation
The procedures proposed as part of this solution handle the modification of
participants list of the on-going ad hoc group communication. Participants can
either be added to or removed from the on-going ad hoc group communication.
This solution provides a mechanism for the initiator of the ad hoc group
communication to modify the participants list if the list of participants is
provided by the initiator and for the MC service server if the list of
participants for the on-going ad hoc group communication is determined by the
MC service server.
# 8 Overall evaluation
## 8.1 Key issue and solution evaluation
### 8.1.1 Introduction
All the key issues and solutions specified in this technical report are listed
in table 8.1.2-1. It includes the mapping of the key issues (clause 4) to the
solutions (clause 7) and corresponding solution evaluations.
In addition, table 8.1.2-1 lists the impacts to other working groups that will
need consideration during the normative phase.
### 8.1.2 Results
Table 8.1.2-1: Key issues, solutions and solution evaluations
Key issues Solution Evaluation (clause reference) Dependency on other working
groups
* * *
Key issue #1 -- Ad hoc group communication Solution #1: Ad hoc group
communication set up for MCX service Clause 7.1.4 SA3 Solution #2: Ad hoc
group call involving multiple MC systems Clause 7.2.3 SA3 Key issue #2 --
Network topology hiding from MC service client while establishing Ad hoc group
communication Solution #1: Ad hoc group communication set up for MCX service
Clause 7.1.4 None Key issue #3 -- Configuration parameters for Ad hoc group
communication Solution #3: Configuration parameters required for Ad hoc group
communication Clause 7.3.4 None Key issue #4 -- Modifying participants list of
on-going ad hoc group communication Solution #4: Modifying participants list
of on-going ad hoc group communication Clause 7.4.4 None
### 8.1.3 Overall evaluation of key issue #1
Key issue #1 is about the Ad hoc group communication, which enables authorized
MCX users to combine a random set of MCX Users into a group communication.
Following open issues are considered during the study :
1\. Procedures for establishing and release of the ad hoc group communication.
2\. Procedures for establishing the ad hoc group communication with end-to-end
encryption support.
3\. Identify whether new information flows are required or existing
information flows can be enhanced to support the ad hoc group communication
set up.
4\. How to support different mechanisms for determining the participants list
for the ad hoc group communication. It could be supplied by the initiator of
the ad hoc group call or determined by the MCX system based on some pre-
defined criteria.
5\. How to support a mechanism for the initiator of an MCX Service ad hoc
group communication to request that the list of participants are updated by
the MCX Service system using a specific pre-defined criteria.
6\. Identify whether any changes are required to the existing MCX functional
architecture for supporting the ad hoc group communication.
Both solution#1 and solution#2 addresses the open issues described above.
Based on solution#1 and solution#2, a harmonized procedure is required to
address the key issue#1. End-to-end encryption support is mandatory for the
AHGC and usage of pre-configured group to achieve end-to-end encryption as
specified in solution #2 will be adapted. New information flows except the
AHGC share security material command described as part of solution #1 will be
used. No architectural updates as specified in open issue 7 are required to
support AHGC.
### 8.1.4 Overall evaluation of key issue #2
Key issue #2 is about the network topology hiding while establishing the ad
hoc group communication. Following open issues are considered :
\- How the group ID used for the ad hoc group communication can be created by
MC service client and managed when establishing the ad hoc group
communication.
\- Whether and how to support the ad hoc group communication without exposing
the network topology.
\- Whether and how to support the ad hoc group communication with dynamically
allocated network resources (such as the MC service server that will host the
communication).
Solution #1 with the option that the network creates the ad hoc group ID for
the AHGC addresses the open issues listed above. This solution provides a
procedure for the MC service server to create the ad hoc group ID and share it
to the MC service clients that needs to be used for the ad hoc group
communication. MC service client is not allowed to create AHGC group ID in
solution #1.This way the MC service client is totally transparent of the
network topology of the MC system domain and no need to create the ad hoc
group ID by itself. As the network is the one selecting which MC service
server to host the AHGC, network resources (the MC service server that hosts
this group communication) can be dynamically allocated based on real-time
information of network resources such as availability and traffic load balance
that can be further specified in the normative work. The mechanism provided in
Solution #1 can serve as basis for the normative work when topology hiding is
required.
### 8.1.5 Overall evaluation of key issue #3
Key issue #3 is about the configuration parameters that are required to be
applied while establishing the ad hoc group communication. Following open
issues are considered :
\- Identify the required system or service level configuration parameters and
document them.
\- Identify the user level configuration parameters and document them.
\- Identify the default parameters to be configured which will be applied when
these parameters are not supplied as part of the ad hoc group communication
request by the initiator.
\- How the MCX server shall be able to determine whether the user is
authorized to initiate ad hoc group communication.
Solution #3 identifies the configuration parameters that are required to
address the open issues listed above and it can serve as basis for the
normative work. There were no default parameters identified which needs to be
configured. These configuration parameters are applied by MC service server
handling AHGC as described in the below table:
Parameter description Details
* * *
Support of ad hoc group call Value of this parameter determines whether ad hoc
group communication is supported or not. MC service server rejects the ad hoc
group communication if the value of this parameter is set to false. Maximum
number of participants allowed to participate in an ad hoc group communication
MC service server rejects the ad hoc group communication request if the number
of participants invited for the call is exceeding the value of this parameter.
Hang timer for ad hoc group communication MC service server terminates the ad
hoc group call if there is no traffic for the time duration specified by this
parameter. Maximum duration for ad hoc group communication This parameter
value determines maximum allowed time duration for the ad hoc group
communication to remain active after which the MC service server will
terminate it. List of preferred voice codecs for ad hoc group call List of
codecs, which can be used by the MC service client in the SDP offer.
Authorised to initiate ad hoc group call MC service server uses this parameter
to check whether the MC service user is authorized to initiate the ad hoc
group call Authorised to participate in ad hoc group call MC service server
uses this parameter to check whether the MC service user is authorized to
participate the ad hoc group call Authorised to initiate emergency ad hoc
group call MC service server uses this parameter to check whether the MC
service user is authorized to initiate the emergency ad hoc group call
Authorised to initiate imminent peril ad hoc group call MC service server uses
this parameter to check whether the MC service user is authorized to initiate
the imminent peril ad hoc group call
Editor\'s note: Any additional parameters related to MCVideo and MCData
services applicable for AHGC is FFS.
### 8.1.6 Overall evaluation of key issue #4
Key issue #4 is related to modification of participants list of on going ad
hoc group communication. Following open issues are considered :
\- Modifying the participants list by the initiator of the ad hoc group
communication when the participants list is provided by the initiator while
establishing the ad hoc group communication.
\- Modifying the participants list by the MC service server when the
participants list is determined by the MC service server.
Solution #4 identifies the information flows and procedures required to
address the open issues listed above and it can service as basis for the
normative work.
# 9 Conclusions
This technical report fulfils the objectives of the study on supporting ad hoc
group communication for MC services. The report includes the following:
1\. Definition of terms and abbreviations used in the study (clause 3);
2\. Key issues identified by the study (clause 4);
3\. Individual solutions addressing the key issues (clause 7); and
4\. Overall evaluations of all the solutions (clause 11).
No architectural requirements and enhancements were identified as part of the
study. Also no dependencies on other working groups within 3GPP were
identified.
The study concludes with following considerations for the normative work:
> 1\. Definition of terms and abbreviations captured in clause 3 will be
> reused;
>
> 2\. Following individual solutions, corresponding to the key issues, will be
> considered as candidate solutions:
a. for Key issue #1 (Ad hoc group communication):
i. Information flows specified in Solution #1 (Ad hoc group communication set
up for MCX service)
ii. Information flow AHGC share security material command is not required
iii. Pre-configured group as specified in Solution #2 to be used for achieving
the end-to-end security for both the cases where the participants list is
supplied by the initiator of the AHGC and participants list is determined by
the MC Service server.
iv. Pre-configured group to be used for the AHGC is determined by the MC
Service server and not by the initiating client.
b. for Key issue #2 (Network topology hiding):
i. Mechanism provided in Solution #1 (Ad hoc group communication set up for
MCX service) where the MC service group ID is created by the MC Service server
and shared to the participating clients to be adapted.
c. for Key issue #3 (Configuration parameters):
i. Solution #3 (Configuration parameters)
d. for Key issue #4 (Modifying participants list):
i. Solution #4 (Modifying participants list)
#