# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 0 Scope
The present document specifies the A5/3 and GEA3 specification.
# 0A References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP Task Force Specification: \"Specification of the A5/3 encryption
algorithms for GSM and ECSD, and the GEA3 encryption algorithm for GPRS;
Document 1: A5/3 and GEA3 specification\" version 1.1, 2002-05-30
Note: Reference [2] is available via http://portal.etsi.org/dvbandca/home.asp
and is subject to licensing conditions described at this site.
# 0B Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 0B.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and in the 3GPP Task Force Specification [2] apply. A term
defined in the latter document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 0B.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the symbols defined in the 3GPP Task
Force Specification [2] apply.
## 0B.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[2] and in the 3GPP Task Force Specification [2] apply. An abbreviation
defined in the latter document takes precedence over the definition of the
same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
# 0C Technical provisions
The technical provisons of the current document are contained in the 3GPP Task
Force Specification [2].
#