# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This Report has been produced by ETSI SAGE Task Force for the design of the
GSM A5/3 and GEA3 encryption algorithms.
The work described in this report was undertaken in response to a request made
by Security Group GSM Association. The work was done under supervision of the
ETSI Mobile Competence Centre (MCC) and the GSM Association.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Report has been prepared by the ETSI SAGE GSM A5/3 Task Force,
and gives a detailed report on the design and evaluation of the A5/3
encryption algorithms for GSM and ECSD, and of the GEA3 encryption algorithm
for GPRS (including EGPRS).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] Void
[2] Void
[3] Void
[4] Void
[5] Void
[6] Void
[7] Void
[8] Void
[9] Void
[10] Void
[11] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[12] 3GPP Task Force Report: \"Specification of the A5/3 encryption algorithms
for GSM and ECSD, and the GEA3 encryption algorithm for GPRS; Document 4:
Design and evaluation report\".
Note: Reference [2] is available via http://portal.etsi.org/dvbandca/home.asp
and is subject to licensing conditions described at this site.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [11] and in the 3GPP Task Force Report [12] apply. A term defined in
the latter document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if
any, in TR 21.905 [11].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the symbols defined in the 3GPP Task
Force Report [12] apply.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[11] and in the 3GPP Task Force Report [12] apply. An abbreviation defined in
the latter document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [11].
# 4 Technical provisions
The technical provisons of the current document are contained in the 3GPP Task
Force Report [2].
#