# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.401 Performance Management (PM); Concept and requirements
52.402 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements -- GSM
32.404 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements - Definitions and
template
32.405 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (UTRAN)
32.406 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Core Network (CN)
Packet Switched (PS) domain
32.407 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Core Network (CN)
Circuit Switched (CS) domain
32.408 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Teleservice
32.409 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements IP Multimedia
Subsystem (IMS)
**32.425 Performance Management (PM); Evolved Performance measurements
Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN)**
32.426 Performance Management (PM); Evolved Packet Core (EPC)
28.401 Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM); Performance
measurements for Core Network (CN) and non-3GPP access Interworking System
28.402 Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM); Performance
measurements for Evolved Packet Core (EPC) and non-3GPP access Interworking
System
**28.403 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Wireless Area
Network (WLAN)**
The present document is part of a set of specifications, which describe the
requirements and information model necessary for the standardised Operation,
Administration and Maintenance (OA&M) of a multi-vendor WLAN system.
During the lifetime of an E-UTRAN, its logical and physical configuration will
undergo changes of varying degrees and frequencies in order to optimise the
utilisation of the network resources. These changes will be executed through
network configuration management activities and/or network engineering, see TS
32.600 [1].
This work is based on the Study contained in TR 32.841 [2] Study on WLAN
Management.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the measurements for WLAN.
TS 32.401 [3] describes Performance Management concepts and requirements.
The present document is valid for all measurement types provided by an
implementation of a WLAN.
Only measurement types that are specific to WLAN are defined within the
present documents. Vendor specific measurement types used in WLAN are not
covered. Instead, these could be applied according to manufacturer\'s
documentation.
Measurements related to \"external\" technologies (such as WLAN or IP) as
described by \"external\" standards bodies (e.g. IEEE or IETF) shall only be
referenced within this specification, wherever there is a need identified for
the existence of such a reference.
The definition of the standard measurements is intended to result in
comparability of measurement data produced in a multi-vendor network, for
those measurement types that can be standardised across all vendors\'
implementations.
The structure of the present document is as follows:
\- Header 1: Network Element (e.g. measurements related to WLAN);
\- Header 2: Measurement function (e.g.);
\- Header 3: Measurements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\"..
[2] 3GPP TR 32.841: \"Study on WLAN Management\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Concept and requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TR 21.905, \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
...
[x] \ \[ ([up to and
including]{yyyy[-mm]\|V\}[onwards])]: \"\\".
# 3 Measurement family and abbreviations
## 3.1 Measurement family
The measurement names defined in the present document are all beginning with a
prefix containing the measurement family name (e.g. RRC.AttConnEstab._Cause_).
This family name identifies all measurements which relate to a given
functionality and it may be used for measurement administration (see TS 32.401
[3]).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[4] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [4].
\ \
# 4 Measurements related to WLAN
###### ## Annex A (informative):
Use cases for performance measurements definition
#