# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
**Ready for Converged Management**
NOTE: This specification is part of a set that has been developed for
converged management solutions.
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
28.601: **\"** Telecommunication management; Core Network (CN) and non-3GPP
access interworking system Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference
Point (IRP); Requirements**\";**
**28.602: \"Telecommunication management; Core Network (CN) and non-3GPP
access interworking system Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference
Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\";**
28.606: **\"** Telecommunication management; Core Network (CN) and non-3GPP
access Interworking system Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference
Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions**\".**
The interface Itf-N, defined in 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], is built up by a number of
Integration Reference Points (IRPs) and a related Name Convention, which
realize the functional capabilities over this interface. The basic structure
of the IRPs is defined in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] and 3GPP TS
32.103 [14].
# 1 Scope
The present document is an Integration Reference Point (IRP) named \"Core
Network (CN) and non-3GPP access interworking system Network Resource Model
IRP\", through which an \'IRPAgent\' (typically an Element Manager or Network
Element) can communicate Configuration Management (CM) information to one or
several \'IRPManagers\' (typically Network Managers) concerning interworking
network resources.
According to the structure of IWLAN defined in 3GPP TS 23.234 [5], several
nodes are defined in 3GPP (e.g. WAG, PDG, 3GPP AAA, etc). The present document
is focusing on the definition of NRM IRP IOCs for management support.
It reuses relevant parts of the generic NRM in 3GPP TS 28.622 [6], either by
direct reuse or sub-classing, and in addition to that defines I-WLAN specific
Information Object Classes.
In order to access the information defined by this NRM, an Interface IRP is
needed, such as the Basic CM IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.602 [7]) or the Bulk CM IRP IS
(3GPP TS 32.612 [8]). However, which Interface IRP that is applicable is
outside the scope of the present document.
The present document supports the Federated Network Information Model (FNIM)
concept described in 3GPP TS 32.107 [16] in that the relevant Information
Object Classes (IOCs) defined in the present document are directly or
indirectly inherited from those specified in the Umbrella Information Model
(UIM) of 3GPP TS 28.620 [17].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 25.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.234: \"3GPP system to Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
interworking; System Description\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS) \".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic Configuration Management Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.612: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 28.625: \"Telecommunication management; State Management Data
Definition Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS) \".
[10] 3GPP TS 28.705: \"Telecommunication management; IP Multimedia Subsystem
(IMS) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS)\"
[11] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM; Information service (IS)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.402: \"Architecture enhancements for non-3GPP accesses\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.103: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) overview and usage guide\".
[15] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[16] 3GPP TS 32.107: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM)\"
[17] 3GPP TS 28.620: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) Umbrella Information Model
(UIM)\"
[18] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[19] IETF RFC4949: \"Internet Security
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1], GPP TS 32.101 [2], 3GPP TS 32.102 [3], 3GPP TS 32.150 [15],
3GPP TS 28.622 [6] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [4] and the following apply.\ A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AAA Access, Authentication and Authorisation
ACL Access Control List
IOC Information Object Class
PDG Packet Data Gateway
WAG WLAN Access Gateway
# 4 Model
## 4.1 Imported information entities and local labels
Table 4.1: Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 28.622 [6], IOC, ManagedElement
ManagedElement 3GPP TS 28.622 [6], IOC, ManagedFunction ManagedFunction 3GPP
TS 28.622 [6], IOC, Top Top 3GPP TS 28.622 [6], IOC, VsDataContainer
VsDataContainer 3GPP TS 28.705 [10], IOC, HSSFunction HSSFunction 3GPP TS
28.625 [9], attribute, proceduralStatus proceduralStatus
* * *
## 4.2 Class diagram
### 4.2.1 Relationships
This clause depicts the set of classes (e.g. IOCs) encapsulating the
information relevant for this IRP.\ This clause provides an overview of the
relationships between relevant classes in UML.\ Subsequent clauses provide
more detailed specification of various aspects of these classes.
{width="6.002083333333333in" height="2.99375in"}
NOTE: The listed cardinality numbers, in particular the use of cardinality
number zero, do not represent transient states. The transient state is
considered an inherent property of all IOC instances and therefore there is no
need to represent them by individual IOC cardinality numbers.
Figure 4.2.1.1: IWLAN NRM Containment/Naming and Association diagram
### 4.2.2 Inheritance
This clause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between IOCs.
Figure 6.2.2.1 shows the inheritance hierarchy for the IWLAN NRM.
{width="3.997916666666667in" height="2.359027777777778in"}
Figure 4.2.2.2: IWLAN NRM inheritance hierarchy for ManagedFunction
{width="5.169444444444444in" height="2.872916666666667in"}
Figure 4.2.2.3: IWLAN NRM inheritance hierarchy for Link
## 4.3 Class definitions
### 4.3.1 WagFunction
#### 4.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents WLAN Access Gateway (WAG) functionality. For more
information about the WAG, see 3GPP TS 23.234 [5].
#### 4.3.1.2 Attributes
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | A | Support | is | is | isI | isNo | | ttribute | Q | Readable | Writable | nvariant | tifyable | | name | ualifier | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | aCList | M | M | M | - | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | procedur | O | - | - | - | M (see | | alStatus | | | | | Note 2) | | (see | | | | | | | Note 1) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | | No state | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | pagation | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | implied. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | change | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | conveyed | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | otifySta | | | | | | | teChange | | | | | | | notif | | | | | | | ication. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
#### 4.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.1.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid without exceptions
or additions for this IOC. In addition, the following set of notification is
also valid.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyStateChange O
* * *
### 4.3.2 PdgFunction
#### 4.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC represents Packet Data Gateway (PDG) functionality. For more
information about the PDG, see 3GPP TS 23.234 [5].
#### 4.3.2.2 Attributes
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | A | Support | is | is | isI | isNo | | ttribute | Q | Readable | Writable | nvariant | tifyable | | name | ualifier | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | procedur | O | - | - | - | M (see | | alStatus | | | | | Note 2) | | (see | | | | | | | Note 1) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | | No state | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | pagation | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | implied. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | change | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | conveyed | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | otifySta | | | | | | | teChange | | | | | | | notif | | | | | | | ication. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
#### 4.3.2.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.2.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are not valid for this IOC.
The set of notifications defined in the following table is valid.
* * *
**Name** **Qualifier** **Notes** notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS
32.111-2 [11])  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O  
notifyStateChange O
* * *
### 4.3.3 3GPPAAAServerFunction
#### 4.3.3.1 Definition
This IOC represents the 3GPP Access, Authentication and Authorisation (AAA)
Server functionality. For more information about the 3GPP AAA server, see 3GPP
TS 23.402 [13].
#### 4.3.3.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.3.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.3.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid without exceptions
or additions for this IOC.
### 4.3.4 3GPPAAAProxyFunction
#### 4.3.4.1 Definition
This IOC represents the 3GPP Access, Authentication and Authorisation (AAA)
Proxy functionality.\ For more information about the 3GPP AAA Proxy, see 3GPP
TS 23.402 [13].
#### 4.3.4.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.4.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.4.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid without exceptions or
additions for this IOC.
### 4.3.5 Link_Pdg_Wag
#### 4.3.5.1 Definition
This IOC represents the Wp reference point as defined in 3GPP 23.402 [13]
#### 4.3.5.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.5.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.5.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid without exceptions or
additions for this IOC.
### 4.3.6 Link_3GPPAAAServer_Pdg
#### 4.3.6.1 Definition
This IOC represents the Wm reference point as defined in 3GPP 23.402 [13].
#### 4.3.6.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.6.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.6.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid without exceptions or
additions for this IOC.
### 4.3.7 Link_3GPPAAAProxy_3GPPAAAServer
#### 4.3.7.1 Definition
This IOC represents the Wd reference point as defined in 3GPP 23.402 [13].
#### 4.3.7.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.7.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.7.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid without exceptions
or additions for this IOC.
### 4.3.8 Link_3GPPAAAProxy_Wag
#### 4.3.8.1 Definition
This IOC represents the Wg reference point as defined in 3GPP 23.402 [13].
#### 4.3.8.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.8.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.8.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid without exceptions
or additions for this IOC.
### 4.3.9 Link_3GPPAAAServer_HSS
#### 4.3.9.1 Definition
This IOC represents the Wx reference point as defined in 3GPP 23.402 [13].
#### 4.3.9.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.9.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.9.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid without exceptions or
additions for this IOC.
## 4.4 Attribute definitions
### 4.4.1 Attribute properties
Table 4.4.1 defines the attributes that are present in several Information
Object Classes (IOCs) of the present document.
Table 4.4.1:
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | aCList | It is an Access | type: String | | | Control List (ACL). | | | | See RFC4949 [19] for | multiplicity: 1 | | | the definition of ACL. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | As stated in TS 23.234 | | | | [5], the WAG does | isUnique: N/A | | | not have a full trust | | | | relationship with the | defaultValue: No | | | WLAN UE. | default value | | | | | | | The WAG may implement | isNullable: True | | | policy enforcement | | | | before tunnel | | | | establishment to | | | | enhance the firewall | | | | against unwanted | | | | packets go through the | | | | PLMN, for example, to | | | | forbid the roaming | | | | WLAN UE from sending | | | | tunnel establishment | | | | to PLMN other than its | | | | HPLMN; to forbid | | | | packets from | | | | unauthorized WLAN UE. | | | | | | | | The ACL configuration | | | | normally uses IP-based | | | | control, e.g. | | | | filtering | | | | IP/ICMP/UDP/TCP | | | | packets. | | | | | | | | There is also Media | | | | Access Control (MAC) | | | | based ACL | | | | configuration. | | | | However, it is hardly | | | | applied to filtering | | | | on WAG. | | | | | | | | The filtering | | | | parameter(s) applying | | | | to those | | | | configurations can be | | | | one or more of the | | | | following: | | | | | | | | - source IPv4/IPv6 | | | | address, | | | | | | | | - destination | | | | IPv4/IPv6 address, | | | | | | | | - protocol number, | | | | | | | | - source port | | | | number, | | | | | | | | - destination port | | | | number | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A.\ | | | | The allowed values | | | | could take the format | | | | as \"access-list | | | | access-list-name | | | | [deny\|permit] | | | | protocol source | | | | source-netmask | | | | destination | | | | destination-netmask\" | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | proceduralStatus | See definition in 3GPP | See 3GPP TS 28.625 | | | TS 28.625 [9] (State | [9]. | | | Management Data | | | | Definition IRP IS). | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
### 4.4.2 Constraints
None.
## 4.5 Common notifications
### 4.5.1 Alarm notifications
This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in 3GPP TS 32.111-2
[11], that the IRPManager can receive.\ The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in 3GPP TS 32.302 [18], would capture the
DN of an instance of an IOC defined in this IRP specification.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[11])  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])
* * *
### 4.5.2 Configuration notifications
This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in 3GPP TS 32.662 [12],
that IRPManager can receive.\ The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in 3GPP TS 32.302 [18], would capture the
DN of an instance of an IOC defined in this IRP specification.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O
* * *
#