# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
TS 28.611: **\"** Evolved Packet Core (EPC) and non-3GPP access interworking
system Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements**\";**
**TS 28.612: \"Evolved Packet Core (EPC) and non-3GPP access interworking
system Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS)\" ;**
TS 28.616: **\"** Evolved Packet Core (EPC) and non-3GPP access interworking
system Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Solution Set (SS) definitions**\".**
The interface Itf-N, defined in 3GPP TS 32.102 [3], is built up by a number of
Integration Reference Points (IRPs) and a related Name Convention, which
realize the functional capabilities over this interface. The basic structure
of the IRPs is defined in 3GPP TS 32.101 [2], 3GPP TS 32.102 [3] and 3GPP TS
32.103 [13].
# 1 Scope
The present document is an Integration Reference Point (IRP) named \"Evolved
Packet Core (EPC) and non-3GPP access interworking system Network resource
Model (NRM) IRP; Information Service (IS)\", through which an \'IRPAgent\'
(typically an Element Manager or Network Element) can communicate
configuration management information to one or several \'IRPManagers\'
(typically Network Managers) concerning interworking network resources.
The present document specifies the semantics and behaviour of Information
Object Class (IOC) attributes and relations visible across the reference point
in a protocol and technology neutral way. It does not define their syntax and
encoding.
It reuses relevant parts of the generic NRM in 3GPP TS 28.622 [6], either by
direct reuse or sub-classing, and in addition to that defines specific IOCs in
EPC and non-3GPP access interworking systems.
In order to access the information defined by this NRM, an interface IRP is
needed, such as the Basic CM IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.602 [7]) or the Bulk CM IRP IS
(3GPP TS 32.612 [8]). However, which interface IRP is applicable is outside
the scope of the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 25.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.402: \"Architecture enhancements for non-3GPP accesses\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic Configuration Management Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.612: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[9] Void.
[10] 3GPP TS 28.708: \"Telecommunication management; Evolved Packet Core (EPC)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 28.705: \"Telecommunication management; IP Multimedia Subsystem
(IMS) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.103: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) overview and usage guide\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[15] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM Information Service (IS)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1], TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3], TS 32.150 [14], TS 28.622 [6], TS
32.600 [4] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
DN Distinguished Name
IOC Information Object Class
# 4 Model
## 4.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 28.622 [6], IOC, Link Link 3GPP TS 28.708
[10], IOC, PGWFunction PGWFunction 3GPP TS 28.705 [12], IOC, HSSFunction
HSSFunction
* * *
## 4.2 Class diagram
### 4.2.1 Relationships
This clause depicts the set of classes (e.g. IOCs) encapsulating the
information relevant for this IRP.\ This clause provides an overview of the
relationships between relevant classes in UML.\ Subsequent clauses provide
more detailed specification of various aspects of these classes.
{width="6.500694444444444in" height="3.5875in"}
Figure 4.2.1.1 IOC containment and association diagram
### 4.2.2 Inheritance
{width="6.183333333333334in" height="2.9916666666666667in"}
Figure 4.2.2.1: IOC inheritance diagram
## 4.3 Class definitions
### 4.3.1 Link_3GPPAAAServer_PGW
#### 4.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents the S6b reference point as defined in 3GPP TS 23.402 [5].
#### 4.3.1.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.1.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid without exceptions or
additions for this IOC.
### 4.3.2 Link_3GPPAAAServer_HSS
#### 4.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC represents the SWx reference point as defined in 3GPP 23.402 [5].
#### 4.3.2.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.2.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.2.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid without exceptions or
additions for this IOC.
### 4.3.3 Link_3GPPAAAProxy_3GPPAAAServer
#### 4.3.3.1 Definition
This IOC represents the SWd reference point as defined in 3GPP 23.402 [5].
#### 4.3.3.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.3.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.3.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid without exceptions
or additions for this IOC.
### 4.3.4 3GPPAAAProxyFunction
#### 4.3.4.1 Definition
This IOC represents the 3GPP Access, Authentication and Authorisation (AAA)
Proxy functionality.\ For more information about the 3GPP AAA Proxy, see 3GPP
TS 23.402 [5].
#### 4.3.4.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.4.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.4.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid without exceptions or
additions for this IOC.
### 4.3.5 3GPPAAAServerFunction
#### 4.3.5.1 Definition
This IOC represents the 3GPP Access, Authentication and Authorisation (AAA)
Server functionality. For more information about the 3GPP AAA server, see 3GPP
TS 23.402 [5].
#### 4.3.5.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.5.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.5.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid without exceptions
or additions for this IOC.
## 4.4 Attribute definitions
### 4.4.1 Attribute properties
None.
### 4.4.2 Constraints
None.
## 4.5 Common notifications
### 4.5.1 Alarm notifications
This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in 3GPP TS 32.111-2
[11], that IRPManager can receive.\ The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in 3GPP TS 32. 302 [16], would capture the
DN of an instance of an IOC defined in this IRP specification.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[11])  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])
* * *
### 4.5.2 Configuration notifications {#configuration-notifications .Style-
Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in 3GPP TS 32. 662 [15],
that IRPManager can receive.\ The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in 3GPP TS 32. 302 [16], would capture the
DN of an instance of an IOC defined in this IRP specification.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O
* * *
#