# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**TS 28.680: Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN); Concepts and requirements**
TS 28.682: Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) Management Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)
This work is based on the Study contained in TR 32.841 [1] Study on WLAN
Management.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the concepts and requirements of WLAN
management that focus on WLAN performance monitoring and alarm notifications.
Measurements related to \"external\" technologies (such as WLAN or IP) as
described by \"external\" standards bodies (e.g. IEEE or IETF) shall only be
referenced within this specification, wherever there is a need identified for
the existence of such a reference
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 32.841: \"Study on WLAN Management\".
[2] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.101, "Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements"
[4] 3GPP TS 32.150, "Telecommunication management; IRP Concept and
definitions"
...
[x] \ \[ ([up to and
including]{yyyy[-mm]\|V\}[onwards])]: \"\\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Delete from the above heading those words which are not applicable.
Clause numbering depends on applicability and should be renumbered
accordingly.
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [x] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[2].
Definition format (Normal)
**\ :** \.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [2].
AC Access Controller
AP Access Point
# 4 Concepts and background
### 4.1 Overview
The architecture for management of WLAN AP is conformant to the Management
reference model as defined in Figure 1 of TS 32.101 [3] where the WLAN AP is
depicted as NE. The system context of the WLAN management is in compliance
with the System Context A, defined in Figure 4.7.1 in TS 32.150 [4].
### 4.2 Mapping Function
Figure 4.2-1 provides an example of 3GPP -- WLAN mapping function. The mapping
function is to map the relevant management data produced by WLAN AP in a form
suitable for distribution via the Type-2 interface to IRPManager(s). The
mapping function is a logical function. Its location, as well as its internal
and external interfaces, if any, are out the scope of 3GPP specification.
Figure 4.2-1: Example of 3GPP -- WLAN Mapping Function
# 5 Requirements
REQ-WLAN_NRM_CON-001
The NRM defined by this IRP shall contain WLAN specific classes and related
definitions.
#