# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
28.731 Transport Network (TN) interface Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements.
**28.732 Transport Network (TN) interface Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS).**
28.733 Transport Network (TN) interface Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Transport Network (TN) interface Network
Resource Model (NRM) that can be communicated between an IRPAgent and an
IRPManager for telecommunication network management purposes, including
management of converged networks.
This document specifies the semantics and behaviour of information object
class attributes and relations visible across the reference point in a
protocol and technology neutral way. It does not define their syntax and
encoding.
The \"Transport Network (TN) Interface Network Resource Model (NRM) IRP\"
comprises a set of specifications defining Requirements, a protocol neutral
Network Resource Model (NRM) and corresponding Solution Set(s).
The present document:
\- Specifies the protocol neutral Transport Network (TN) interface Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service
(IS). It reuses relevant parts of the generic NRM in TS 28.622 [6], either by
direct reuse or sub-classing, and in addition to that defines Transport
specific Managed Object Classes.
The Configuration Management (CM) area is very large. The intention is to
split the specification of the related interfaces in several IRPs - as
described in the Introduction clause above. An important aspect of such a
split is that the Network Resource Models (NRMs) defined in different IRPs
containing NRMs are consistent, and that NRMs supported by an IRPAgent
implementation can be accessed as one coherent model through one IRP
Information Service.
In order to access the information defined by this NRM, an IRP Information
Service (IS) is needed, such as the Basic CM IRP: IS (TS 32.602 [7]) or the
Bulk CM IRP: IS (TS 32.612 [8]). However, which Information Service that is
applicable is outside the scope of this document.
Finally, regarding the support of the State Management IRP: IS (TS 28.625
[16]), all NRMs of one release shall support the same State Management IRP
version.
This specification is related to 3GPP TS 28.625 [16].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication Management, Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] Void
[4] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation I.361 (11/95):\"B-ISDN ATM Layer Specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.612: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 25.430: \"UTRAN Iub interface:general aspects and principles\".
[10] 3GPP TS 25.431: \"UTRAN Iub interface Layer 1\".
[11] 3GPP TS 25.411: \"UTRAN Iu interface Layer 1\".
[12] 3GPP TS **28.652: "UTRAN Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)".**
[13] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[15] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM Information Service (IS)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 28.625: \"Telecommunication management; State Management
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[17] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) concept and definitions\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following definitions and
abbreviations apply. For definitions and abbreviations not found here, refer
to 3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [17] and 3GPP TS
28.622 [6].
**Association:** See definition in TS 28.622 [6].
**Network Resource Model (NRM):** See definition in TS 28.622 [6].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [17] and the following apply:
DN Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [4])
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
ITU-T International Telecommunication Union, Telecommunication Sector
Iub Interface between RNC and Node B
NRM Network Resource Model
RDN Relative Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [4])
RNC Radio Network Controller
UML Unified Modelling Language
# 4 Model
## 4.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 28.622 [6], IOC, ManagedElement
ManagedElement 3GPP TS 28.652 [12], IOC, IubLink IubLink 3GPP TS 28.622 [6],
IOC, VsDataContainer VsDataContainer
* * *
## 4.2 Class diagram
### 4.2.1 Relationships
This clause depicts the set of classes (e.g. IOCs) that encapsulates
information relevant for this IRP. This subclause provides the overview of the
relationships of relevant classes in UML. Subsequent subclasses provide more
detailed specification of various aspects of these classes.
Figure 4.2.1.1 shows the name-containment relation and other types of
relations of the Transport Network NRM.
{width="6.323611111111111in" height="1.7222222222222223in"}
Figure 4.2.1.1: Transport Network NRM Containment/Naming and Association
diagram
Each IOC is identified with a Distinguished Name (DN) according to 3GPP TS
32.300 [4] that expresses its containment hierarchy. As an example, the DN of
a IOC representing a ATMPathTerminationPoint could have a format like:
SubNetwork=Sweden,meContext=MEC-Gbg-1,ManagedElement=RNC-Gbg-1,
TransportNetworkInterface=ATM-1, ATMPathTerminationPoint=Gbg-1.
{width="6.066666666666666in" height="1.6659722222222222in"}
NOTE 1: The listed cardinality numbers represent transient as well as steady-
state numbers, and reflect all managed object creation and deletion scenarios.
Figure 4.2.1.2: vsDataContainer in name-containment diagram
### 4.2.2 Inheritance
This subclause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between IOCs.
Figure 4.2.2.1 shows the inheritance hierarchy for the Transport Network NRM.
{width="5.696527777777778in" height="1.417361111111111in"}
Figure 4.2.2.1: Transport Network NRM Inheritance Hierarchy
## 4.3 Class definitions
### 4.3.1 TransportNetworkInterface
#### 4.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents the Transport Network Interface technology (e.g. ATM, IP).
#### 4.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
transportNetworkType M M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.1.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.2 ATMChannelTerminationPoint
#### 4.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC represents a bi-directional ATM Virtual Channel Connection
Termination Point.
#### 4.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable usageChannel M M - - M virtualPathId M M O - M virtualChannelId M
M O - M physicalPortId M M O - M physicalInterfaceType M M O - M
serviceCategoryIn M M O - M ServiceCategoryEg M M O - M usedAAL M M O - M
peakCellRateIn M M O - M peakCellRateEg M M O - M sustainableCellRateIn O M O
- M sustainableCellRateEg O M O - M maximumBurstSizeIn M M O - M
maximumBurstSizeEg M M O - M minimumDesiredCellRateIn O M O - M
minimumDesiredCellRateEg O M O - M minimumCellRateIn O M O - M
minimumCellRateEg O M O - M **Attribute related to role**  
theATMPathTerminationPoint M M -  
theIubLink M M -
* * *
#### 4.3.2.3 Attribute constraints
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | > Name | > Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | virtualPathId, virtualChannelId, | The Write Qualifier shall be | | physicalPortId, | supported if these attributes | | physicalInterfaceType, | can be set over Itf-N. | | serviceCategoryIn/Eg, usedAAL, | | | peakCellRateIn/Eg, | | | sustainableCellRateIn/Eg, and | | | maximumBurstSizeIn/Eg | | | | | | O Write qualifier | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | sustainableCellRateIn/Eg, | Only applicable for | | maximumBurstSizeIn/Eg | ServiceCategory values RT-VBR, | | | NRT-VBR. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | minimumCellRateIn/Eg | Only applicable for Service | | | Category values ABR, GFR. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 4.3.2.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.3 ATMPathTerminationPoint
#### 4.3.3.1 Definition
This IOC represents a bi-directional ATM Virtual Path Connection Termination
Point.
#### 4.3.3.2 Attributes
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | A | Support | is | isWr | isI | isNo | | ttribute | Q | Readable | itetable | nvariant | tifyable | | name | ualifier | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | virtu | M | M | O | - | M | | alPathId | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ph | M | M | O | - | M | | ysicalPo | | | | | | | rtIdList | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | peakCe | M | M | O | - | M | | llRateIn | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | peakCe | M | M | O | | | | llRateEg | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | > **A | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | > to | | | | | | | > role** | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | > theAT | M | M | - | - | M | | MChannel | | | | | | | Terminat | | | | | | | ionPoint | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
NOTE: The attribute peakCellRateIn, peakCellRateEg of ATM Path is the maximum
Peak Cell Rate of its channels.
#### Attribute constraints
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | > Name | > Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | for attributes virtualPathId, | The Write Qualifier shall be | | physicalPortIdList, | supported if these attributes | | peakCellRateIn, peakCellRateEg O | can be written/set over Itf-N. | | Write qualifier | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 4.3.3.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
## 4.4 Attribute definitions
### 4.4.1 Attribute properties
The following table defines the attributes that are present in several IOCs of
the present document.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | transportNetworkType | The type of | type: | | | underlying transport | \> | | | network, i.e. ATM, | | | | IP | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: ATM, | isOrdered: N/A | | | IP | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | usageChannel | The logical channel | type: String | | | using the transport | | | | network connection. | multiplicity: 1 | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.430 | | | | [9] | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: | isUnique: N/A | | | examples are | | | | "Iub-NBAP", | defaultValue: None | | | "Iub-ALCAP". | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | virtualPathId | The ATM Virtual Path | type: Integer | | | Identifier (VPI). | | | | Ref. ITU-T | multiplicity: 1 | | | Recommendation | | | | I.361[5] | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | virtualChannelId | The ATM Virtual | type: Integer | | | Channel Identifier | | | | (VCI). Ref. ITU-T | multiplicity: 1 | | | Recommendation I.361 | | | | [5] | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | physicalPortIdList | The list of | type: String | | | identifiers of the | | | | ATM physical port | multiplicity: 1..* | | | containing | | | | termination points | isOrdered: False | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | physicalPortid | The identifier of | type: String | | | the ATM physical | | | | port containing | multiplicity: 1 | | | termination points | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | p | The ATM physical | type: String | | hysicalInterfaceType | interface type. Ref. | | | | 3GPP TS | multiplicity: 1 | | | 25.431[10], 3GPP | | | | TS 25.411[11] | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: | isUnique: N/A | | | Examples are 'E1', | | | | 'STM1'. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | serviceCategoryIn | The ATM Service | type: | | | Category used for | \> | | | the virtual | | | | connection Ingress | multiplicity: 1 | | | (incoming) traffic.\ | | | | Ref. ITU-T | isOrdered: N/A | | | Recommendation | | | | I.361[5] | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: CBR, | defaultValue: N/A | | | RT-VBR, NRT-VBR, | | | | ABR, UBR, GFR | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | serviceCategoryEg | The ATM Service | type: | | | Category used for | \> | | | the virtual | | | | connection Egress | multiplicity: 1 | | | (outgoing) traffic.\ | | | | Ref. ITU-T | isOrdered: N/A | | | Recommendation | | | | I.361[5] | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: CBR, | defaultValue: N/A | | | RT-VBR, NRT-VBR, | | | | ABR, UBR, GFR | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | usedAAL | The ATM Adaptation | type: | | | Layer (AAL) used for | \> | | | the virtual | | | | connection.\ | multiplicity: 1 | | | Ref. ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | isOrdered: N/A | | | I.361[5] | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | allowedValues: Null, | | | | AAL1,..... | defaultValue: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | peakCellRateIn | Peak Cell Rate (PCR) | type: Integer | | | in kbits/sec for | | | | Ingress traffic. | multiplicity: 1 | | | Ref. ITU-T | | | | Recommendation I.361 | isOrdered: N/A | | | [5] | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | peakCellRateEg | Peak Cell Rate (PCR) | type: Integer | | | in kbits/sec for | | | | Egress traffic. Ref. | multiplicity: 1 | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | I.361 [5] | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | s | Sustainable Cell | type: Integer | | ustainableCellRateIn | Rate (SCR) in | | | | kbits/sec for | Multiplicity: 1 | | | Ingress traffic. | | | | Ref. ITU-T | isOrdered: N/A | | | Recommendation I.361 | | | | [5] | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: 1...n | defaultValue: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | s | Sustainable Cell | type: Integer | | ustainableCellRateEg | Rate (SCR) in | | | | kbits/sec for Egress | Multiplicity: 1 | | | traffic. Ref. ITU-T | | | | Recommendation I.361 | isOrdered: N/A | | | [5] | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | allowedValues: 1...n | | | | | defaultValue: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | maximumBurstSizeIn | Maximum Burst Size | type: Integer | | | (MBS) for VBR | | | | Service Categories | multiplicity: 1 | | | for Ingress traffic. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | Ref. ITU-T | | | | Recommendation I.361 | isUnique: N/A | | | [5] | | | | | defaultValue: N/A | | | allowedValues: 1...n | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | maximumBurstSizeEg | Maximum Burst Size | type: Integer | | | (MBS) for VBR | | | | Service Categories | multiplicity: 1 | | | for Egress traffic. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | Ref. ITU-T | | | | Recommendation I.361 | isUnique: N/A | | | [5] | | | | | defaultValue: N/A | | | allowedValues: 1...n | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | minimumCellRateIn | Minimum Cell Rate | type: Integer | | | (MCR) in kbits/sec | | | | for ABR, GFR Service | multiplicity: 1 | | | Categories for | | | | Ingress traffic. | isOrdered: N/A | | | Ref. ITU-T | | | | Recommendation I.361 | isUnique: N/A | | | [5] | | | | | defaultValue: N/A | | | allowedValues: 1...n | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | minimumCellRateEg | Minimum Cell Rate | type: Integer | | | (MCR) in kbits/sec | | | | for ABR, GFR Service | multiplicity: 1 | | | Categories for | | | | Egress traffic. Ref. | isOrdered: N/A | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | I.361 [5] | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: N/A | | | | | | | | allowedValues: 1...n | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mini | Minimum Desired Cell | type: Integer | | mumDesiredCellRateIn | Rate (MDCR) in | | | | kbits/sec for UBR | multiplicity: 1 | | | Service Category for | | | | Ingress traffic. | isOrdered: N/A | | | Ref. ITU-T | | | | Recommendation I.361 | isUnique: N/A | | | [5] | | | | | defaultValue: N/A | | | allowedValues: 1..n | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mini | Minimum Desired Cell | type: Integer | | mumDesiredCellRateEg | Rate (MDCR) in | | | | kbits/sec for UBR | multiplicity: 1 | | | Service Category for | | | | Egress traffic. Ref. | isOrdered: N/A | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | I.361 [5] | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: 1..n | defaultValue: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Role-Attribute Name | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | theATMCha | It carries zero or | type: DN | | nnelTerminationPoint | more DNs of | | | | ATMChan | multiplicity: 1 | | | nelTerminationPoint. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | theATM | It carries zero or | type: DN | | PathTerminationPoint | one DN of | | | | ATMP | multiplicity: 1 | | | athTerminationPoint. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | theIubLink | It carries zero or | type: DN | | | more DNs of IubLink. | | | | | multiplicity: 1..* | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 4.4.2 Constraints
None.
## 4.5 Common notifications
### 4.5.1 Alarm notifications
This subclause presents a list of notifications, defined in [13], that
IRPManager can receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in [14], would capture the DN of an
instance of an IOC defined in this IRP specification.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[13])  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [13])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [13])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [13])  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [13])  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [13])  
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [13])
* * *
### 4.5.2 Configuration notifications
This subclause presents a list of notifications, defined in [15], that
IRPManager can receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in [14], would capture the DN of an
instance of an IOC defined in this IRP specification.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O
* * *
###### ## Annex A (informative): Example Configuration of ATM Transport
Network in UTRAN
Figure A.1: Virtual connection of a logical Iub interface channel over ATM
network
#