# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the result of the Multi-SDO JWG on Model Alignment
which 3GPP TSG SA WG5 (SA5) has developed jointly with TMF and NGMN, and which
does not fully follow the 3GPP templates and drafting rules.
Therefore 3GPP SA5 has desired to keep the present document as similar as
possible to the original, for comparison with the corresponding TMF version.
Thus 3GPP SA5 has done only the strictly necessary changes from the 3GPP
drafting rules perspective in order to publish the present document as a 3GPP
Technical Report.
As a result of the analysis of the requirements for the harmonization of the
3GPP and TM Forum Information Models in the context of FMC basic use cases
were developed 3GPP TR 32.833 [1], TM Forum TR 166 [2]. These use cases led to
the recognition that it would be necessary to define common operation model
elements applicable for wire-line and wireless networks. The present document
defines these common model elements.
To be noted:
\- The Umbrella Operation Model (UOM) described in the present document
provides the set of interfaces/operations etc. that have been agreed for
convergence to strengthen consistency of representation and semantics of
network management operations in the fixed and mobile environments.
\- The UOM is necessary but not sufficient for implementation.
\- The UOM cannot be used directly for implementation. Implementation classes
must be derived from those in the UOM by Inheritance or some other appropriate
mechanism.
\- Classes derived from those in the UOM (e.g. for the fixed environment) may
use different names from those used in the UOM.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 32.833: \"Telecommunication management; Study on management of
converged networks\".
[2] TM Forum TR 166: \"Information Model Federation Concepts and
Principles\".\ http://collab.tmforum.org/sf/go/doc13634?nav=1.
[3] Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM).
[4] Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC) Model Repertoire.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) [3]
apply.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the symbols given in Fixed Mobile
Convergence (FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) [3] apply.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in Fixed
Mobile Convergence (FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) [3] and
the following apply:
FFS For Further Study
FMC Fixed Mobile Convergence
FNIM Federated Network Information Model
FNOM Federated Network Operation Model
M Mandatory
ME Managed Element
NM Network Management
NW Network
O Optional
OMG Object Management Group
SC Selection Criteria
SDO Standards Developing Organization
UOM Umbrella Operation Model
XML Extensible Markup Language
XPath XML Path Language
# 4 Umbrella Operation Model (UOM)
## 4.1 Introduction
This clause introduces a number of classes and their relations that form the
UOM. These classes are defined as the OMG UML defined classifier called
interface.
The definitions of these classes are implementation neutral in that they only
capture the semantics of the operations. They do not:
a) Include syntax or representation of the operation model elements.
b) Relate to the information model elements.
Various SDOs and organizations are expected to use this interface definition
for their definitions of domain/technology-specific \"interface\" classes.
This procedure will maximize the probability of the domain/technology specific
concrete \"interface\" classes (from various SDOs) being semantically
consistent, a necessary characteristic for FMC NM purposes.
The set of \"interface\" is basic in that their definitions and usage are
necessary for the harmonization of various domain/technology-specific
\"interface\" classes, forming the so-called FNOM.
## 4.2 Interface/Signal diagram
These Interfaces are _abstract_. Other Interfaces are for further study.
The UML diagrams in figure 4.2-1 do not show operation parameters. See annex A
for the UML diagrams that do.
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="0.7958333333333333in"}
Figure 4.2-1: Interface/Signal diagram
## 4.3 Operations
### 4.3.1 Create Operations Group
#### 4.3.1.1 Operation createEntity
##### 4.3.1.1.1 Definition
The client requests the server to create an identifiable entity.
It is possible to provide an identifier of an existing entity of the same
class to be used as the template for the new entity to be created.
The operation properties are:
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | Property name | Legal values | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | isAtomic | True | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | preconditions | None | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | postconditions | Entity has been created as requested. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | bulkTransferPattern | NONE | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | emitsEvents | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | emittedEvents | -- | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | isOneWay | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | operationExceptions | All mandatory pre-defined Exceptions (see | | | Table 9 of [4]). | | | | | | Optional pre-defined Exceptions: | | | | | | CapacityExceeded | | | | | | ObjectExisting | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | supportQualifier | M | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
##### 4.3.1.1.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | Parameter Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | entityId | This parameter | type: DN | | | provides the | | | | identifier of the | isOrdered: False | | | entity to be created | | | | by the Server. | isUnique: True | | | | | | | If no identifier is | defaultValue: No value | | | provided, the Server | | | | provides a unique | multiplicity: 1 | | | identifier. | | | | | isBulkPotential: False | | | allowedValues: FFS | | | | | supportQualifier: M | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | referenceEntity | This parameter | type: DN | | | provides the | | | | identifier of an | isOrdered: False | | | existing entity that | | | | is of the same class | isUnique: True | | | as the entity to be | | | | created. | defaultValue: No value | | | | | | | Attribute values | multiplicity: 1 | | | associated with the | | | | referenced entity | isBulkPotential: False | | | become the default | | | | values for those not | supportQualifier: O | | | specified by the | | | | attributeList | | | | parameter. | | | | | | | | This parameter may | | | | contain no | | | | information. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | Distinguished Name of | | | | an existing entity of | | | | the same class known | | | | by the server. | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | attributeList | This parameter | type: | | | provides the entity | AttributeValuePair | | | attribute names and | | | | values to be populated | isOrdered: False | | | to the new entity. | | | | | isUnique: True | | | These values override | | | | the values of the | defaultValue: No value | | | referenceEntity (if | | | | the referenceEntity | multiplicity: * | | | parameter contains | | | | information) and the | isBulkPotential: False | | | default values | | | | property of the entity | supportQualifier: O | | | definition. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: For the | | | | attribute names, only | | | | the subject entity | | | | class defined | | | | attributes. For the | | | | attribute values, see | | | | the subject entity | | | | class attribute | | | | allowedValues | | | | property. | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+
##### 4.3.1.1.3 Output parameters
None.
### 4.3.2 Delete Operations Group
#### 4.3.2.1 Operation deleteEntitiesWithSc
##### 4.3.2.1.1 Definition
The client requests the server to delete entities identified by selection
criteria.
The operation properties are:
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | Property name | Legal values | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | isAtomic | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | preconditions | None | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | postconditions | Selected entities do not exist. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | bulkTransferPattern | NONE | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | emitsEvents | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | emittedEvents | -- | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | isOneWay | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | operationExceptions | All mandatory pre-defined Exceptions (see | | | Table 9 of [4]). | | | | | | Optional pre-defined Exceptions: | | | | | | None | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | supportQualifier | M | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
##### 4.3.2.1.2 Input parameters
+-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Parameter Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | selectionCriteria | This parameter | type: External | | | provides the criteria | | | | whose evaluation | isOrdered: False | | | would yield zero or | | | | more entity | isUnique: True | | | identifier(s). | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | The grammar for | value | | | selectionCriteria is | | | | not defined in the | multiplicity: 1 | | | UOM and may be | | | | dependent on the | isBulkPotential: | | | technology used (e.g. | False | | | in case of XML use | | | | XPath). | supportQualifier: M | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
##### 4.3.2.1.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Parameter Name | Documentation | Properties | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | states | This parameter provides | type: | | | information about the | Op | | | status of the | erationStatusBestEffort | | | operation. | | | | | isOrdered: False | | | allowedValues: See | | | | property::type. | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: No value | | | | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | | isBulkPotential: False | | | | | | | | supportQualifier: M | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
#### 4.3.2.2 Operation deleteEntities
##### 4.3.2.2.1 Definition
The client requests the server to delete entities identified by explicit
object identifiers.
The operation properties are:
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | Property name | Legal values | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | isAtomic | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | preconditions | None | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | postconditions | Identified entities do not exist. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | bulkTransferPattern | NONE | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | emitsEvents | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | emittedEvents | -- | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | isOneWay | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | operationExceptions | All mandatory pre-defined Exceptions (see | | | Table 9 of [4]). | | | | | | Optional pre-defined Exceptions: | | | | | | None | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | supportQualifier | M | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
##### 4.3.2.2.2 Input parameters
+----------------+-------------------------+------------------------+ | Parameter Name | Documentation | Properties | +----------------+-------------------------+------------------------+ | entityIdList | This parameter provides | type: DN | | | the identifiers of the | | | | entities to be deleted | isOrdered: False | | | by the Server. | | | | | isUnique: True | | | allowedValues: See | | | | property::type. | defaultValue: No value | | | | | | | | multiplicity: 1..* | | | | | | | | isBulkPotential: False | | | | | | | | supportQualifier: M | +----------------+-------------------------+------------------------+
##### 4.3.2.2.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Parameter Name | Documentation | Properties | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | status | This parameter provides | type: | | | information about the | Op | | | status of the | erationStatusBestEffort | | | operation. | | | | | isOrdered: False | | | allowedValues: See | | | | property::type. | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: No value | | | | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | | isBulkPotential: False | | | | | | | | supportQualifier: M | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
### 4.3.3 Get Operations Group
#### 4.3.3.1 Operation getEntityIdsWithSc
##### 4.3.3.1.1 Definition
The client requests the server to return the identifiers of the entities
identified by selection criteria.
The operation properties are:
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | Property name | Legal values | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | isAtomic | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | preconditions | None | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | postconditions | No change in the entities. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | bulkTransferPattern | NONE | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | emitsEvents | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | emittedEvents | -- | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | isOneWay | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | operationExceptions | All mandatory pre-defined Exceptions (see | | | Table 9 of [4]). | | | | | | Optional pre-defined Exceptions: | | | | | | AccessDenied | | | | | | FilterNotSupported | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | supportQualifier | M | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
##### 4.3.3.1.2 Input parameters
+-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Parameter Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | selectionCriteria | It This parameter | type: External | | | provides the criteria | | | | whose evaluation | isOrdered: False | | | would yield zero or | | | | more entity | isUnique: True | | | identifier(s). | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | The grammar for | value | | | selectionCriteria is | | | | not defined in the | multiplicity: 1 | | | UOM and may be | | | | dependent on the | isBulkPotential: | | | technology used (e.g. | False | | | in case of XML use | | | | XPath). | supportQualifier: M | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
##### 4.3.3.1.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Parameter Name | Documentation | Properties | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | entityIdList | This parameter returns | type: DN | | | a list of entity | | | | identifiers. | isOrdered: False | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isUnique: True | | | property::type. | | | | | defaultValue: No value | | | | | | | | multiplicity: * | | | | | | | | isBulkPotential: False | | | | | | | | supportQualifier: M | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | status | This parameter returns | type: | | | information about the | Op | | | status of the | erationStatusBestEffort | | | operation. | | | | | isOrdered: False | | | allowedValues: See | | | | property::type. | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: No value | | | | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | | isBulkPotential: False | | | | | | | | supportQualifier: M | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
#### 4.3.3.2 Operation getEntitiesWithSc
##### 4.3.3.2.1 Definition
The client requests the server to return information (list of attribute
values) of the entities identified by selection criteria.
The operation properties are:
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | Property name | Legal values | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | isAtomic | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | preconditions | None | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | postconditions | No change in the entities. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | bulkTransferPattern | ITERATOR | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | emitsEvents | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | emittedEvents | -- | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | isOneWay | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | operationExceptions | All mandatory pre-defined Exceptions (see | | | Table 9 of [4]). | | | | | | Optional pre-defined Exceptions: | | | | | | AccessDenied | | | | | | FilterNotSupported | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | supportQualifier | M | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
##### 4.3.3.2.2 Input parameters
+-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Parameter Name | Documentation | Properties | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | selectionCriteria | This parameter | type: External | | | provides the criteria | | | | whose evaluation | isOrdered: False | | | would yield zero or | | | | more entity | isUnique: True | | | identifier(s). For | | | | the identified | defaultValue: No | | | entities the | value | | | attribute values are | | | | to be returned. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | The grammar for | isBulkPotential: | | | selectionCriteria is | False | | | not defined in the | | | | UOM and may be | supportQualifier: M | | | dependent on the | | | | technology used (e.g. | | | | in case of XML use | | | | XPath). | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | attributeNameList | This parameter | type: String | | | provides the names of | | | | attributes whose | isOrdered: False | | | values are requested | | | | by the client. | isUnique: True | | | | | | | If no attribute name | defaultValue: No | | | is provided, all | value | | | available attributes | | | | have to be returned. | multiplicity: * | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isBulkPotential: | | | property::type. | False | | | | | | | | supportQualifier: M | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
##### 4.3.3.2.3 Output parameters
+--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Parameter Name | Documentation | Properties | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | entityInstanceList | This parameter | type: _Top__ | | | returns the list of | | | | entities together | isOrdered: False | | | with their requested | | | | attributes. | isUnique: True | | | | | | | NOTE: The type is | defaultValue: No | | | _Top__. The class of | value | | | the returned entity | | | | instances are derived | multiplicity: * | | | from _Top__. | | | | | isBulkPotential: True | | | AllowedValues: See | | | | property::type. | supportQualifier: M | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | status | This parameter | type: | | | returns information | Oper | | | about the status of | ationStatusBestEffort | | | the operation. | | | | | isOrdered: False | | | FAILURE: All | | | | identified entities | isUnique: True | | | exist. None of the | | | | entities have all | defaultValue: No | | | identified | value | | | attributes. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | SUCCESS: All | | | | identified entities | isBulkPotential: | | | exist and have all | False | | | identified | | | | attributes. | supportQualifier: M | | | | | | | PARTIAL_SUCCESS: Not | | | | FAILURE and not | | | | SUCCESS. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | property::type. | | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
#### 4.3.3.3 Operation getEntities
##### 4.3.3.3.1 Definition
The client requests the server to return information (list of attribute
values) of one or more entities identified by object identifiers.
The operation properties are:
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | Property name | Legal values | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | isAtomic | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | preconditions | None | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | postconditions | No change in the entities. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | bulkTransferPattern | ITERATOR | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | emitsEvents | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | emittedEvents | -- | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | isOneWay | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | operationExceptions | All mandatory pre-defined Exceptions (see | | | Table 9 of [4]). | | | | | | Optional pre-defined Exceptions: | | | | | | AccessDenied | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | supportQualifier | M | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
##### 4.3.3.3.2 Input parameters
+-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Parameter Name | Documentation | Properties | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | entityIdList | This parameter | type: DN | | | provides the | | | | identifiers of the | isOrdered: False | | | entities to be | | | | returned by the | isUnique: True | | | Server. | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | allowedValues: See | value | | | property::type. | | | | | multiplicity: 1..* | | | | | | | | isBulkPotential: | | | | False | | | | | | | | supportQualifier: M | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | attributeNameList | This parameter | type: String | | | provides the names of | | | | attributes whose | isOrdered: False | | | values are requested | | | | by the client. | isUnique: True | | | | | | | If no attribute name | defaultValue: No | | | is provided, all | value | | | available attributes | | | | have to be returned. | multiplicity: * | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isBulkPotential: | | | property::type. | False | | | | | | | | supportQualifier: M | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
##### 4.3.3.3.3 Output parameters
+--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Parameter Name | Documentation | Properties | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | entityInstanceList | This parameter | type: _Top__ | | | returns the list of | | | | entity identifiers | isOrdered: False | | | with their requested | | | | attributes. | isUnique: True | | | | | | | NOTE: The type is | defaultValue: No | | | _Top__. The class of | value | | | the returned entity | | | | instances are derived | multiplicity: * | | | from _Top__. | | | | | isBulkPotential: True | | | allowedValues: See | | | | property::type. | supportQualifier: M | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | status | This parameter | type: | | | returns information | Oper | | | about the status of | ationStatusBestEffort | | | the operation. | | | | | isOrdered: False | | | FAILURE: All | | | | identified entities | isUnique: True | | | exist. None of the | | | | entities have all | defaultValue: No | | | identified | value | | | attributes. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | SUCCESS: All | | | | identified entities | isBulkPotential: | | | exist and have all | False | | | identified | | | | attributes. | supportQualifier: M | | | | | | | PARTIAL_SUCCESS: Not | | | | FAILURE and not | | | | SUCCESS. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | property::type. | | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
### 4.3.4 Set Operations Group
#### 4.3.4.1 Operation setEntitiesWithScAtomic
##### 4.3.4.1.1 Definition
The client requests the server to populate information (list of attribute
values) in entities identified by selection criteria.
NOTE: If attribute property (isNotifyable) has been specified as True, an
appropriate number of attribute value change notification(s) should be sent
when this operation is successful.
The operation properties are:
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | Property name | Legal values | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | isAtomic | True | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | preconditions | None | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | postconditions | Entities have been set as requested. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | bulkTransferPattern | NONE | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | emitsEvents | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | emittedEvents | -- | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | isOneWay | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | operationExceptions | All mandatory pre-defined Exceptions (see | | | Table 9 of [4]). | | | | | | Optional pre-defined Exceptions: | | | | | | AccessDenied | | | | | | FilterNotSupported | | | | | | NotInValidState | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | supportQualifier | M | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
##### 4.3.4.1.2 Input parameters
+--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Parameter Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | selectionCriteria | This parameter | type: External | | | provides the criteria | | | | whose evaluation | isOrdered: False | | | would yield zero or | | | | more entity | isUnique: True | | | identifier(s). For | | | | the identified | defaultValue: No | | | entities, the values | value | | | of the requested | | | | attributes (see next | multiplicity: 1 | | | parameter) are to be | | | | set. | isBulkPotential: | | | | False | | | The grammar for | | | | selectionCriteria is | supportQualifier: M | | | not defined in the | | | | UOM and may be | | | | dependent on the | | | | technology used (e.g. | | | | in case of XML use | | | | XPath). | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | attributeValueList | This parameter | type: | | | provides a list of | AttributeValuePair | | | attribute names and | | | | values which shall be | isOrdered: False | | | populated. | | | | | isUnique: True | | | The listed attribute | | | | values shall entirely | defaultValue: No | | | replace the | value | | | corresponding | | | | attribute values in | multiplicity: 1..* | | | the entities. | | | | | isBulkPotential: | | | Note: Per entity, | False | | | either all or none of | | | | the requested | supportQualifier: M | | | attributes shall be | | | | replaced. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | property::type. | | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
##### 4.3.4.1.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Parameter Name | Documentation | Properties | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | status | This parameter returns | type: | | | information about the | OperationStatusAtomic | | | status of the | | | | operation. | isOrdered: False | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isUnique: True | | | property::type. | | | | | defaultValue: No value | | | | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | | isBulkPotential: False | | | | | | | | supportQualifier: M | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
#### 4.3.4.2 Operation setEntitiesWithSc
##### 4.3.4.2.1 Definition
The client requests the server to populate information (list of attribute
values) in entities identified by selection criteria.
NOTE: If attribute property (isNotifyable) has been specified as True, an
appropriate number of attribute value change notification(s) should be sent
when this operation is successful or partially successful.
The operation properties are:
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | Property name | Legal values | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | isAtomic | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | preconditions | None | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | postconditions | Entities have been set as requested. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | bulkTransferPattern | NONE | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | emitsEvents | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | emittedEvents | -- | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | isOneWay | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | operationExceptions | All mandatory pre-defined Exceptions (see | | | Table 9 of [4]). | | | | | | Optional pre-defined Exceptions: | | | | | | AccessDenied | | | | | | FilterNotSupported | | | | | | NotInValidState | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | supportQualifier | M | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
##### 4.3.4.2.2 Input parameters
+--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Parameter Name | Documentation | Properties | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | selectionCriteria | This parameter | type: External | | | provides the criteria | | | | whose evaluation | isOrdered: False | | | would yield zero or | | | | more entity | isUnique: True | | | identifier(s). For | | | | the identified | defaultValue: No | | | entities, the values | value | | | of the requested | | | | attributes (see next | multiplicity: 1 | | | parameter) are to be | | | | set. | isBulkPotential: | | | | False | | | The grammar for | | | | selectionCriteria is | supportQualifier: M | | | not defined in the | | | | UOM and may be | | | | dependent on the | | | | technology used (e.g. | | | | in case of XML use | | | | XPath). | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A. | | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | attributeValueList | This parameter | type: | | | provides a list of | AttributeValuePair | | | attribute names and | | | | values which shall be | isOrdered: False | | | populated. | | | | | isUnique: True | | | The listed attribute | | | | values shall entirely | defaultValue: No | | | replace the | value | | | corresponding | | | | attribute values in | multiplicity: 1..* | | | the entities. | | | | | isBulkPotential: | | | Note: Per entity, | False | | | either all or none of | | | | the requested | supportQualifier: M | | | attributes shall be | | | | replaced. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | property::type. | | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
##### 4.3.4.2.3 Output parameters
+--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Parameter Name | Documentation | Properties | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | modifiedEntityList | This parameter | type: _Top__ | | | returns the entities | | | | whose attribute | isOrdered: False | | | values have been | | | | changed. | isUnique: True | | | | | | | NOTE 1: If the | defaultValue: No | | | evaluation of the | value | | | criteria yields to | | | | zero entity, this | multiplicity: * | | | parameter is empty | | | | and the status is | isBulkPotential: True | | | success. | | | | | supportQualifier: M | | | NOTE 2: The type is | | | | _Top__. The class of | | | | the returned entity | | | | instances are derived | | | | from _Top__. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | property::type. | | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | status | This parameter | type: | | | returns information | Oper | | | about the status of | ationStatusBestEffort | | | the operation. | | | | | isOrdered: False | | | FAILURE: All | | | | identified entities | isUnique: True | | | exist. None of the | | | | entities have all | defaultValue: No | | | identified | value | | | attributes. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | SUCCESS: All | | | | identified entities | isBulkPotential: | | | exist and have all | False | | | identified attributes | | | | and their values are | supportQualifier: M | | | changed as requested. | | | | | | | | PARTIAL_SUCCESS: Not | | | | FAILURE and not | | | | SUCCESS. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | property::type. | | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
#### 4.3.4.3 Operation setEntities
##### 4.3.4.3.1 Definition
The client requests the server to populate information (list of attribute
values) in one or more identified entities.
NOTE: If attribute property (isNotifyable) has been specified as True, an
appropriate number of attribute value change notification(s) should be sent
when this operation is successful.
The operation properties are:
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | Property name | Legal values | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | isAtomic | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | preconditions | None | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | postconditions | Entities have been set as requested. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | bulkTransferPattern | NONE | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | emitsEvents | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | emittedEvents | -- | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | isOneWay | False | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | operationExceptions | All mandatory pre-defined Exceptions (see | | | Table 9 of [4]). | | | | | | Optional pre-defined Exceptions: | | | | | | AccessDenied | | | | | | NotInValidState | | | | | | ObjectNotExisting | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | supportQualifier | M | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
##### 4.3.4.3.2 Input parameters
+--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Parameter Name | Documentation | Properties | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | entityIdList | This parameter | type: DN | | | provides the | | | | identifiers of the | isOrdered: False | | | entities whose | | | | attribute values (see | isUnique: True | | | next parameter) are | | | | to be set. | defaultValue: No | | | | value | | | allowedValues: See | | | | property::type. | multiplicity: 1..* | | | | | | | | isBulkPotential: | | | | False | | | | | | | | supportQualifier: M | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | attributeValueList | This parameter | type: | | | provides a list of | AttributeValuePair | | | attribute names and | | | | values which shall be | isOrdered: False | | | populated. | | | | | isUnique: True | | | The listed attribute | | | | values shall entirely | defaultValue: No | | | replace the | value | | | corresponding | | | | attribute values in | multiplicity: 1..* | | | the entities. | | | | | isBulkPotential: | | | NOTE: Per entity, | False | | | either all or none of | | | | the requested | supportQualifier: M | | | attributes shall be | | | | replaced. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | property::type. | | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
##### 4.3.4.3.3 Output parameters
+--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Parameter Name | Documentation | Properties | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | modifiedEntityList | This parameter | type: _Top__ | | | returns the entities | | | | whose attribute | isOrdered: False | | | values have been | | | | changed. | isUnique: True | | | | | | | NOTE: The type is | defaultValue: No | | | _Top__. The class of | value | | | the returned entity | | | | instances are derived | multiplicity: * | | | from _Top__. | | | | | isBulkPotential: True | | | allowedValues: See | | | | properties::type. | supportQualifier: M | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | status | This parameter | type: | | | returns information | Oper | | | about the status of | ationStatusBestEffort | | | the operation. | | | | | isOrdered: False | | | FAILURE: All | | | | identified entities | isUnique: True | | | exist. None of the | | | | entities have all | defaultValue: No | | | identified | value | | | attributes. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | SUCCESS: All | | | | identified entities | isBulkPotential: | | | exist and have all | False | | | identified attributes | | | | and their values are | supportQualifier: M | | | changed as requested. | | | | | | | | PARTIAL_SUCCESS: Not | | | | FAILURE and not | | | | SUCCESS. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | property::type. | | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
## 4.4 Notifications
### 4.4.1 Notification notify
#### 4.4.1.1 Definition
The server notifies the client of information regarding the managed network
resources.
The notification properties are:
* * *
Property name Legal values isAtomic True Preconditions None Postconditions
None bulkTransferPattern NONE emitsEvents False emittedEvents -- isOneWay True
operationExceptions None supportQualifier M
* * *
#### 4.4.1.2 Input parameters
NOTE: The notification here is modelled in similar fashion as operation, i.e.
they have parameters and the Notify parameters are listed in the table below.
In some UML model tools, the notification is modelled using the \>
artefact (special kind of class), i.e. they have attributes. See annex B.
+----------------+-------------------------+------------------------+ | Parameter Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +----------------+-------------------------+------------------------+ | notificationId | This parameter provides | type: String | | | the identifier of the | | | | notification. | isOrdered: False | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isUnique: True | | | property::type. | | | | | defaultValue: No value | | | | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | | isBulkPotential: False | | | | | | | | supportQualifier: M | +----------------+-------------------------+------------------------+ | entityId | This parameter provides | type: DN | | | the identifier of the | | | | entity whose | isOrdered: False | | | information is being | | | | sent from server to | isUnique: True | | | client. | | | | | defaultValue: No value | | | allowedValues: See | | | | property::type. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | | isBulkPotential: False | | | | | | | | supportQualifier: M | +----------------+-------------------------+------------------------+ | eventTime | This parameter | type: DateTime | | | indicates the time when | | | | the entity information | isOrdered: False | | | was sent. | | | | | isUnique: True | | | allowedValues: See | | | | property::type. | defaultValue: No value | | | | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | | isBulkPotential: False | | | | | | | | supportQualifier: M | +----------------+-------------------------+------------------------+
#### 4.4.1.3 Output parameters
Notification is \'one-way\'. There is no output parameter.
###### ### Annex A: Interface/Signal diagrams
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="0.7958333333333333in"}
Figure A.1: Interface/Signal diagram
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="0.9902777777777778in"}
Figure A.2: Create Operations Interface
{width="6.322916666666667in" height="1.2395833333333333in"}
Figure A.3: Delete Operations Interface
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="0.9069444444444444in"}
Figure A.4: Get Operations Interface
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="0.8479166666666667in"}
Figure A.5: Set Operations Interface
{width="2.625in" height="1.28125in"}
Figure A.6: notify Notification
###### ### Annex B: Notification Notify attributes
In clause 4.4.1.2, the notification is modelled in similar fashion as
operation, i.e. they have parameters. The notification here is modelled using
the \> artefact (special kind of class), i.e. the Notify attributes
have attributes and are listed in the following tables.
This notification has 3 attribute(s).
**A) notificationId**
Attribute definition:
This attribute provides the identifier of the notification.
* * *
Attribute Property Property Value Property Qualifier Condition type String  
multiplicity 1  
isOrdered false  
isUnique true  
defaultValue No value  
Allowed values: See property::type.  
isInvariant true -  
isNotifyable false M  
isNullable false  
isReadable true M  
isWriteable false -  
passedById false  
supportQualifier M
* * *
**B) entityId**
Attribute definition:
This attribute provides the identifier of the entity whose information is
being sent from server to client.
* * *
Attribute Property Property Value Property Qualifier Condition type DN  
multiplicity 1  
isOrdered false  
isUnique true  
defaultValue No value  
Allowed values: See property::type.  
isInvariant true -  
isNotifyable false M  
isNullable false  
isReadable true M  
isWriteable false -  
passedById false  
supportQualifier M
* * *
**C) eventTime**
Attribute definition:
This attribute indicates the time when the entity information was sent.
* * *
Attribute Property Property Value Property Qualifier Condition type DateTime  
multiplicity 1  
isOrdered false  
isUnique true  
defaultValue No value  
Allowed values: See property::type.  
isInvariant true -  
isNotifyable false M  
isNullable false  
isReadable true M  
isWriteable false -  
passedById false  
supportQualifier M
* * *
#