# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the reference configuration for access to a
PLMN.
A user accesses a PLMN via a number of interfaces, including the MS-BS (in
A/Gb mode and GERAN Iu mode), UE-UTRAN (in UTRAN Iu mode), UE-E-UTRAN, and
UE-5G-AN interface. The purpose of this document is to indicate the possible
access arrangements that may be used in conjunction with the MS-BS (in A/Gb
mode and GERAN Iu mode), UE-UTRAN (in UTRAN Iu mode), UE-E-UTRAN, and UE-5G-AN
interface.
## 1.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] Void.
[2] Void.
[3] Void.
[4] Void.
[5] Void.
[6] Void.
[7] Void.
[8] Void.
[9] Void.
[10] Void.
[11] Void.
[12] Void.
[13] Void.
[14] 3GPP TS 44.021: \"Rate adaption on the Mobile Station - Base Station
System (MS - BSS) interface\".
[15] Void.
[16] Void.
[17] Void.
[18] Void.
[19] Void.
[20] Void.
[21] Void.
[22] Void.
[23] Void.
[24] Void.
[25] Void.
[26] Void.
[27] Void.
[28] Void.
[29] Void.
[30] Void.
[31] Void.
[32] Void.
[33] 3GPP TS 27.001: \"General on Terminal Adaptation Functions (TAF) for
Mobile Stations (MS)\".
[34] 3GPP TS 27.002: \"Terminal Adaptation Functions (TAF) for services using
asynchronous bearer capabilities\".
[35] 3GPP TS 27.003: \"Terminal Adaptation Functions (TAF) for services using
synchronous bearer capabilities\".
[36] Void.
[37] Void.
[38] Void.
[39] 3GPP TR 21.905: \" Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications \".
[40] Void.
[41] 3GPP TS 25.322: \"Radio Link Control (RLC) Protocol Specification\".
[42] ITU-T Recommendation V.24 (1996):\"List of definitions for interchange
circuits between data terminal equipment (DTE) and data circuit‑terminating
equipment (DCE)\".
[43] ITU‑T Recommendation V.28 (1993): \"Electrical characteristics for
unbalanced double‑current interchange circuits\".
[44] Infrared Data Association IrDA: \"IrPHY Physical layer signalling
standard\".
[45] Personal Computer Memory Card Association: \"PCMCIA 2.1 or PC‑Card 3.0
electrical specification or later revisions\".
[46] Void.
## 1.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905 [39].
# 2 General definitions
The following definitions 2.1-2.3 are based on those used for ISDN.
## 2.1 Reference Configurations
Reference Configurations are conceptual configurations useful in identifying
access arrangements to a network. Two concepts are used in defining reference
configurations:
reference points and functional groups.
## 2.2 Functional Groups
Functional Groups are sets of functions which may be needed in network access
arrangements. In a particular access arrangement, specific functions in a
functional group may or may not be present. Specific functions in a functional
group may be performed in one or more pieces of equipment.
## 2.3 Reference Points
Reference Points are the conceptual points dividing functional groups. In a
specific access arrangement, a reference point may correspond to a physical
interface between pieces of equipment, or there may not be any physical
interface corresponding to the reference point.
## 2.4 Interface Points
Interface Points are reference points within a PLMN at which a 3GPP specified
interface is always identified.
## 2.5 Terminal Definitions
The term \'mobile station\' ( MS ) in the present document is synonymous with
the term \'user equipment\' (UE ) in 3G terminology as defined in 3GPP TR
21.905 [39].
The term \'TE2\' in the present document is synonymous with the term \'TE\' in
3G terminology as defined in 3GPP TR 21.905 [39].
The term \'MT2\' in the present document is synonymous with the term \'MT\' in
3G terminology as defined in 3GPP TR 21.905 [39].
# 3 Reference Configuration
## 3.0 General
The reference configuration for PLMN (in A/Gb mode and GERAN Iu mode) access
interfaces is shown in figure 1.
{width="0.3854166666666667in" height="0.23958333333333334in"}: reference
point.
TE2: V -type terminal.
TA: Terminal Adaptor.
GERAN: GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network.
CN: Core Network.
Figure 1: PLMN Access Reference Configuration (in A/Gb mode and GERAN Iu mode)
There are two types of MT:
\- MT0 includes functions belonging to the functional group MT, with support
of no terminal interfaces.
\- MT2 includes functions belonging to the functional group MT, and with an
interface that complies with the 3GPP TS 27.00z series Terminal Adaptation
Function specifications [33], [34], [35]. Accordingly, the interchange circuit
mapping at the MT2 to TE interface shall comply with the ITU-T V.24 [42]
recommendation; while the physical implementation shall conform either to the
ITU-T V.28 [43], or to the IrDA IrPHY Physical signalling standard
specification [44], or to the PCMCIA 2.1 [45], or to the PC-Card 3.0 [45],
electrical specification or to later revisions.
The MT plus any TE constitutes the Mobile Station, MS.
The terminal equipment functional groups TE2 and TA are conceptually the same
functional groups as those in the ISDN.
The reference configuration for PLMN (Iu mode) access interfaces is shown in
figure 2.
{width="0.3854166666666667in" height="0.23958333333333334in"}: reference
point.
TA: Terminal Adaptor.
MT: Mobile Termination.
ME: Mobile Equipment.
UE: User Equipment
UTRAN: UMTS Radio Access Network.
E-UTRAN: Evolved UMTS Radio Access Network.
CN: Core Network.
5G-AN: 5G Access Network.
Figure 2: PLMN Access Reference Configuration (UTRAN Iu mode, E-UTRAN, or
5G-AN)
There is no reference point identified for the TA Function. The TA Function is
considered as a part of the Mobile Termination and with an interface that
complies with the 3GPP TS 27.00z series Terminal Adaptation Function
specifications [33], [34], [35].
## 3.1 Mobile Termination (MT)
The MT performs the following functions, which performs the following
functions:
\- radio transmission termination;
\- radio transmission channel management;
\- terminal capabilities, including presentation of a man-machine interface to
a user;
\- speech encoding/decoding;
\- error protection for all information sent across the radio path. This
includes FEC (forward error correction) and, for signalling and user data
(except for transparent data services), ARQ (automatic request for
retransmission);
\- flow control of signalling and mapping of user signalling to/from PLMN
access signalling;
\- flow control of user data (except for transparent data services) and
mapping of flow control for asynchronous transparent data services;
\- rate adaptation of user data (see 3GPP TS 44.021[14]) and data formatting
for the transmission SAP (3GPP TS 25.322 [41]);
\- multiple terminal support;
\- mobility management.
## 3.2 Void
# 4 Physical Realisation
In a PLMN, the reference point Um/Uu is an interface point, i.e. it is always
implemented as a physical interface (according to 3GPP Technical
Specifications in the 44, 45, 24, 25 and 36 series). The R reference point may
be optionally implemented as physical interface. The implementation of
interfaces at this reference point is according to 3GPP TS 27.001 [33], 3GPP
TS 27.002 [34] and 3GPP TS 27.003 [35].
Figure 3 gives examples of configurations illustrating combinations of
physical interfaces at the R reference point. The examples shown are not
exhaustive, but only serve to illustrate possible implementations of the
respective functional blocks.
Example (a) of figure 3 illustrates a fully integrated MS including data
terminal functions within the mobile station equipment.
Example (c) of figure 3 illustrates the connection of a TE2 by an ITU-T V
series interface according to 3GPP TS 27.002 [34] and 3GPP TS 27.003 [35].
Example (d) of figure 3 illustrates the connection of a MT2 PCMCIA card to a
TE2 by a PCMCIA 2.1 interface according to 3GPP TS 27.002 [34]and 3GPP TS
27.003 [35].
Example (f) of figure 3 illustrates the connection of a speech only MS.
+---------------------+ +-----------+
\| Mobile \| \| \|
(a) \| Data +-----//--\| Base \|
\| Terminal [MT0] \| \| Station \|
+---------------------+ +-----------+
(b) void
+----------------+ +-------+ +-----------+
\| V \| \| \| \| \|
(c) \| DTE +----------//--\| [MT2] +--//--\| Base \|
\| [TE2] \| \| \| \| Station \|
+----------------+ +-------+ +-----------+
+----------------+ +-------+ +-----------+
\| V.24 \| \| \| \| \|
\| and PCMCIA 2.1 \| \| \| \| \|
(d) \| DTE +-------------//-\| [MT2] +-//-\| Base \|
\| [TE2] \| \| \| \| Station \|
+----------------+ +-------+ +-----------+
(e) void
+---------------------+ +-----------+
\| Speech-only MS \| \| \|
(f) \| +-----//--\| Base \|
\| [MT0] \| \| Station \|
+---------------------+ +-----------+
Figure 3: Examples of physical implementations
#