# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
This TS describes procedures on the radio interface for the call deflection
supplementary service within the 3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version 3.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 1 Scope
This Global System for Mobile communications Technical Specification specifies
the procedures used at the radio interface (reference point Um as defined in
3GPP TS 24.002) for normal operation of Call Deflection (CD) supplementary
service. Provision and withdrawal of supplementary services is an
administrative matter between the mobile subscriber and the service provider
and cause no signalling on the radio interface.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.072: \"Call Deflection (CD) supplementary service Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.002: \"GSM Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) access reference
configuration\".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary services
specification; Formats and coding\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in this specification are listed in 3GPP TS 21.905.
# 4 Call Deflection (CD)
## 4.1 Normal operation
### 4.1.1 Served mobile subscriber side
The served mobile subscriber may invoke the call deflection supplementary
service if an incoming call is offered. According to 3GPP TS 22.072 this may
happen as an automatic response from the mobile station if the call is offered
or as the result of a subscriber action.
The mobile station shall invoke the call deflection supplementary service by
initiating call clearing with a DISCONNECT message including the call
deflection request (refer to figure 4.1). The call deflection request shall
contain the DeflectedToNumber which may be accompanied by a
DeflectedToSubAddress.
The MS may invoke the call deflection supplementary service at every time
after call confirmation until the call is accepted (refer to 3GPP TS 24.008).
If the network accepts the call deflection request, it shall continue call
clearing. The result indication shall be returned to the mobile station in the
RELEASE message.
If the network cannot accept the call deflection request, it shall continue
call clearing. The corresponding error indication shall be returned to the
mobile station in the RELEASE message. Error values are specified in 3GPP TS
24.080.
During the call deflection request the MS shall run a timer TCD (T305). This
timer is started when the call deflection request is sent and stopped when a
response is received from the network. If this timer expires the MS shall
assume that the call deflection request has failed, locally release the
invokeID, inform the user of the failure and continue call clearing as defined
in 3GPP TS 24.008.
MS Network
SETUP
\
•
•
•
DISCONNECT
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
Facility (Invoke = CallDeflection (DeflectedToNumber, DeflectedToSubAddress))
RELEASE
\
Figure 4.1: Call deflection invocation for an incoming call
### 4.1.2 Deflected-to mobile subscriber side
As for the call forwarding supplementary services the deflected-to mobile
subscriber will receive a NotifySS operation containing the SS Notification
indicating that the incoming call is a forwarded call. When available, the SS
Code of the Call Deflection supplementary service is included, see figure 4.2.
When multiple diversions occurs the value of the SS Code shall relate to the
last invoked diversion service.
In addition the deflected-to subscriber will receive the redirecting party BCD
number and optionally, a redirecting party subaddress.
The redirecting party BCD number information element is made up of a number of
information units as defined in 3GPP TS 24.008.
In addition to or instead of the redirecting party\'s digits, the subscriber
may be given the following information:
\- screening indicator;
\- presentation indicator.
Indicator values are given in 3GPP TS 24.008.
The redirecting party subaddress information element is made up of a number of
information units as defined in 3GPP TS 24.008.
MS Network
SETUP
\
FACILITY
\<\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (CD, SS-Notification))
Figure 4.3: Notification to the calling mobile subscriber that the call is
forwarded
#