# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
This TS specifies the procedures used at the radio interface (reference point
Um as defined in 3GPP TS 24.002) for normal operation, registration, erasure,
activation, deactivation, invocation and interrogation of Closed User Group
(CUG) supplementary services within the 3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version 3.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 0 Scope
This Technical Specification (TS) for Mobile communications specifies the
procedures used at the radio interface (reference point Um as defined in 3GPP
TS 24.002) for normal operation, registration, erasure, activation,
deactivation, invocation and interrogation of community of interest
supplementary services. The provision and withdrawal of supplementary services
is an administrative matter between the mobile subscriber and the service
provider and causes no signalling on the radio interface.
In 3GPP TS 24.010, the general aspects of the specification of supplementary
services at the layer 3 radio interface are given.
3GPP TS 24.080 specifies the formats coding for the supplementary services.
Definitions and descriptions of supplementary services are given in 3GPP TS
22.004 and 3GPP TS 22.08x and 3GPP TS 22.09x-series. 3GPP TS 22.085 is related
to the community of interest supplementary services.
Technical realization of supplementary services is described in technical
specifications 3GPP TS 23.011 and 3GPP TS TS 23.08x and 3GPP TS 23.09x-series.
3GPP TS 23.085 is related to the community of interest supplementary services.
The procedures for Call Control, Mobility Management and Radio Resource
management at the layer 3 radio interface are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007 and
3GPP TS 24.008.
Signalling interworking for supplementary services between 3GPP TS 29.002 and
3GPP TS 24.008 and between 3GPP TS 29.002 and 3GPP TS 24.080 is defined in
3GPP TS 29.011.
The following supplementary services belong to the community of interest
supplementary services and are described in this TS:
‑ Closed User Group (CUG) clause 1.
## 0.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.081: \"Line identification Supplementary Services ‑ Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) Supplementary Services ‑ Stage 1\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) Supplementary
Services ‑ Stage 1\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.084: \"Multi Party (MPTY) Supplementary Services ‑ Stage 1\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) Supplementary Services ‑ Stage
1\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) Supplementary Services ‑ Stage
1\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.087: \"User-to-User Signalling (UUS) Service description ‑
Stage 1\".
[10] 3GPP TS 22.088: \"Call Barring (CB) Supplementary Services ‑ Stage 1\".
[11] 3GPP TS 22.090: \"Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) ‑ Stage
1\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Technical realization of supplementary services\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.081: \"Line identification supplementary services ‑ Stage 2\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑ Stage
2\".
[16] 3GPP TS 23.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary
services ‑ Stage 2\".
[17] 3GPP TS 23.084: \"Multi Party (MPTY) supplementary services ‑ Stage 2\".
[18] 3GPP TS 23.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services ‑ Stage
2\".
[19] 3GPP TS 23.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) supplementary services ‑ Stage
2\".
[20] 3GPP TS 23.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services ‑ Stage 2\".
[21] 3GPP TS 23.090: \"Unstructured supplementary services operation ‑ Stage
2\".
[22] 3GPP TS 24.002: \"GSM-UMTS Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) Access
Reference Configuration\".
[23] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General
aspects\".
[24] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification\".
[25] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3; Supplementary services
specification; General aspects\".
[26] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary services
specification; Formats and coding\".
[27] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[28] 3GPP TS 29.011: \"Signalling interworking for supplementary services\".
## 0.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in this TS are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905.
# 1 Closed User Group (CUG)
## 1.1 Normal operation
### 1.1.1 Mobile originated CUG calls
#### 1.1.1.1 Successful operation
CUG calls may be invoked Implicitly or Explicitly by the calling user.
In the case of Implicit invocation, no CUG information is provided by the user
in the call set-up request and a default attribute of CUG is invoked. Normal
call establishment procedures are followed over the radio interface and no CUG
signalling is required.
In the case of Explicit CUG invocation, CUG information is provided by the
user and is included in the SETUP message using the ForwardCUG-Info operation
(see figure 1.1). User provided CUG information may consist of any combination
of the following parameters:
‑ CUG Index;
‑ Suppress Preferential CUG indicator;
‑ Suppress OA indicator.
NOTE: No more than one of each parameter may be included per call attempt.
MS Network
SETUP
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
Facility (Invoke = ForwardCUG-Info (CUG-Index, SuppressPrefCUG, SuppressOA))
Figure 1.1: Transfer of CUG information during CUG call set-up
If the network received a non-zero SS Screening indicator from the calling
user\'s mobile station, the network may optionally indicate to the MS that a
CUG has been invoked for a call (see figure 1.2). When a CUG Index is received
from the VLR the MSC shall send it immediately to the MS in a FACILITY or CALL
PROCEEDING message. If the network did not receive a non-zero SS Screening
indicator from the calling user\'s mobile station, it shall not send this
notification.
MS Network
FACILITY/CALL PROCEEDING
\<\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (CUG-Index))
Figure 1.2: Indication of CUG invocation to the calling subscriber by the
network
#### 1.1.1.2 Unsuccessful operation
When an attempted CUG call is rejected for CUG related reasons, the mobile
station is provided with an indication of the reason for failure.
The indication is passed to the calling MS in the first clearing message. The
indication may be given in one of two ways:
‑ Diagnostics information in cause value #29 \"Facility Rejected\";
‑ A standard call control cause value.
Diagnostics are used when the rejection is generated locally (the serving VLR
has rejected the call), or if they are provided in a cause value from a remote
network node (see figure 1.3). Table 1.1 gives the diagnostics information for
each potential local rejection case.
A CUG rejection from a remote network node is generally indicated using a
standard (CUG related) call control cause value contained in an ISUP clearing
message. These cause values are passed to the mobile station in the
appropriate radio interface clearing message (see figure 1.4). Table 1.2 gives
the cause values in each potential remote rejection case.
All CUG related call rejection cases are defined in 3GPP TS 23.085. Cause
values are defined in 3GPP TS 24.008 and diagnostics in 3GPP TS 24.080.
NOTE: Annex A specifies the mapping of cause values between MAP, ISUP and 3GPP
TS 24.008 for remotely generated CUG rejections.
MS Network
DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE
\<\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
.....Cause #29 (Facility Rejected (diagnostics)).....
Figure 1.3: Indication of local CUG call rejection
MS Network
DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE
\<\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cause Information Element (Cause Value)
Figure 1.4: Indication of remote CUG call rejection
Table 1.1: Use of diagnostic values for local CUG call failure indications
* * *
Reason for rejection\ Facility Rejected #29\ See 3GPP TS 23.085 Diagnostic
Field\ (Diagnostics)
Outgoing calls barred within the CUG Outgoing calls barred within the CUG
Inconsistent access info - No CUG Selected No CUG Selected
Unknown CUG Index Unknown CUG Index
Inconsistent access info -\ Index incompatible with requested basic service
Index incompatible with requested basic service
* * *
Table 1.2: Use of cause values for remote CUG call failure indications
* * *
Reason for rejection\ Cause Information Element\ See 3GPP TS 23.085 (cause
value)
Called party supplementary service interaction violation Facility Rejected
#29\ Diagnostic = CUG call failure,\ unspecified
Incompatible Destination\ Facility Rejected #29\ (see note) Diagnostic = CUG
call failure,\ unspecified
Incoming calls barred within the CUG Incoming calls barred within\ the CUG #55
Interlock mismatch User not a member of CUG #87
Requested basic service violates CUG constraints Facility Rejected #29
NOTE: In cases of interworking failures ETSI ISUP V2 clears the call with
cause value #29 \"Facility Rejected\", Diagnostic = \"Interlock Code\". This
is mapped to Facility Rejected with general diagnostic value \"CUG call
failure, unspecified\" since the interlock code has no meaning for a mobile
user.
* * *
### 1.1.2 Mobile terminated calls
If the network received a non-zero SS Screening indicator from the called
user\'s mobile station, when a CUG call is terminated by a CUG subscriber the
Index associated with the invoked CUG may be passed to the mobile station (see
figure 1.5). If the network did not receive a non-zero SS Screening indicator
from the called user\'s mobile station, it shall not send this notification.
MS Network
SETUP
\<\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (CUG-Index))
Figure 1.5: Presentation of the CUG Index to a CUG subscriber during reception
of a CUG call
## 1.2 Activation, deactivation, interrogation, registration and erasure
Activation, deactivation, interrogation, registration and erasure of the
supplementary service closed user group are not applicable.
###### ## Annex A (normative): CUG rejection cause value mapping
Table A.1 indicates how MAP, ISUP and 3GPP TS 24.008 cause values are mapped
to enable a rejection indication to be passed from the remote rejecting node
to the calling user.
Table A.1: Protocol mapping for CUG call rejection cause values
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | GSM MAP | CCITT ISUP\ | 3GPP TS 24.008\ | | | cause value | cause value | | CUG reject cause | | | | value | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | calledPartyS | #29 Facility | #29 Facility | | upplementary-Service | Rejected\ | Rejected\ | | InteractionViolation | Diagnostic = IC\ | Diagnostic = CUG | | | (see note 1) | call failure,\ | | | | unspecified | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | incoming | #55 I/C calls | #55 I/C calls | | CallsBarredWithinCUG | barred\ | barred\ | | | within CUG | within CUG | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | subs | #87 User not | #87 User not | | criberNotMemberOfCUG | member\ | member\ | | | of CUG | of CUG | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | requ | #29 Facility | #29Facility | | estedBasicService-Vi | Rejected\ | Rejected\ | | olatesCUGConstraints | (see note 2) | (no diagnostic) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: There is no | | | | specific cause value | | | | in ISUP for this | | | | rejection case. | | | | Therefore it is | | | | proposed that Cause | | | | Value #29 | | | | \"Facility | | | | Rejected\" is used | | | | with the diagnostic | | | | equal to the | | | | interlock of the | | | | call. This approach | | | | has been used in | | | | ISUP for | | | | interworking | | | | problems. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: There is no | | | | specific cause value | | | | in ISUP for this | | | | rejection case. It | | | | is therefore | | | | proposed to use | | | | cause value #29 | | | | \"Facility | | | | Rejected\" to | | | | indicate a general | | | | supplementary | | | | service failure. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#