# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
This TS specifies the procedures used at the radio interface for normal
operation, registration, erasure, activation, deactivation, invocation and
interrogation of line identification supplementary services within the 3GPP
system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version 3.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 0 Scope
The present document specifies the procedures used at the radio interface for
normal operation, registration, erasure, activation, deactivation, invocation
and interrogation of line identification supplementary services. Provision and
withdrawal of supplementary services is an administrative matter between the
mobile subscriber and the service provider and cause no signalling on the
radio interface.
In 3GPP TS 24.010 the general aspects of the specification of supplementary
services at the layer 3 radio interface are given.
3GPP TS 24.080 specifies the formats and coding for the supplementary
services.
Definitions and descriptions of supplementary services are given in 3GPP TS
22.004 and 3GPP TS 22.08x and 3GPP TS 22.09x‑series. 3GPP TS 22.081 is related
specially to line identification supplementary services.
Technical realization of supplementary services is described in 3GPP TS 23.011
and 3GPP TS 23.08x and 3GPP TS 23.09x‑series. 3GPP TS 23.081 is related
specially to line identification supplementary services.
The procedures for Call Control, Mobility Management and Radio Resource
management at the layer 3 radio interface are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007 and
3GPP TS 24.008.
The following supplementary services belong to the line identification
supplementary services and are described in the present document:
\- Calling line identification presentation (CLIP) (clause 1);
\- Calling line identification restriction (CLIR) (clause 2);
\- Connected line identification presentation (COLP) (clause 3);
\- Connected line identification restriction (COLR) (clause 4).
## 0.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications \".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.081: \"General on supplementary services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.081: \"Line identification supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary
services ‑ Stage 1\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.084: \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services ‑ Stage
1\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) supplementary services ‑ Stage
1\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[10] 3GPP TS 22.090: \"Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) \- Stage
1\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Technical realization of supplementary services\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.081: \"Line identification supplementary services ‑ Stage 2\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑ Stage
2\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary
services ‑ Stage 2\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.084 \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services ‑ Stage 2\".
[16] 3GPP TS 23.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services ‑ Stage
2\".
[17] 3GPP TS 23.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) supplementary services ‑ Stage
2\".
[18] 3GPP TS 23.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services ‑ Stage 2\".
[19] 3GPP TS 23.090: \"Unstructured supplementary services operation ‑ Stage
2\".
[20] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General
aspects\".
[21] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification\".
[22] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3; Supplementary services
specification; General aspects\".
[23] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary services
specification; Formats and coding\".
## 0.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905.
# 1 Calling Line Identification Presentation (CLIP)
## 1.1 Normal operation
The calling line identity consists of a calling party BCD number and
optionally, a calling party subaddress and/or a cause of no CLI.
The calling party BCD number information element is made up of a number of
information units as indicated in 3GPP TS 24.008.
In addition to or instead of the calling party\'s digits, the subscriber may
be given the following information:
\- screening indicator;
\- presentation indicator.
Indicator values are given in 3GPP TS 24.008.
The calling party subaddress information element is made up of a number of
information units as indicated in 3GPP TS 24.008.
The cause of no CLI information element is made up of a detailed cause of no
CLI as indicated in TS 24.008.
A called mobile subscriber subscribing to calling line identification
presentation service receives the call with the information indicated above,
see figure 1.1.
> MSb Network
>
> SETUP
>
>
> \
> Calling party BCD number (screening indicator, presentation indicator,
> calling party digits),
>
> Calling party subaddress, Cause of No CLI
NOTE: The calling party subaddress is passed to MSb if it is received from the
originating network.
Figure 1.1: Notification by the network to the called mobile subscriber
When the calling line identity is not available, the presentation indicator
which is given to the called mobile subscriber takes the value of \"number not
available\".
## 1.2 Interrogation
**Status Check**
The mobile subscriber can request the status of the supplementary service and
be informed if the service is provided to him.
> MSa Network
>
> REGISTER
>
>
> \------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
>
> Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (CLIP))
>
> RELEASE COMPLETE
>
>
> \
> Facility (Return Result = InterrogateSS (SS-Status))
>
> RELEASE COMPLETE
>
> \
> * * *
>
> Facility (Return Error (Error))
>
> RELEASE COMPLETE
>
> \
> * * *
>
> Facility (Reject (Invoke_problem))
Figure 1.2: Interrogation of calling line identification presentation
## 1.3 Activation, deactivation, registration and erasure
Activation, deactivation, registration and erasure of the supplementary
service calling line identification presentation are not applicable.
# 2 Calling Line Identification Restriction (CLIR)
## 2.1 Normal Operation
When calling line identification restriction is applicable, the originating
network provides the destination network with a notification that the calling
party\'s ISDN number, with possible additional address information, is not
allowed to be presented to the called party.
If the called mobile user subscribes to calling line identification
presentation and the calling party has calling line identification restriction
applied, the called mobile party shall receive the presentation indicator
showing \"presentation restricted\" in the calling party BCD field of the
SETUP message, see figure 1.1. In this case, the calling party\'s number
(digits) will not be sent towards the called subscriber.
## 2.2 Requesting presentation of CLI
When the CLIR presentation mode is temporary (presentation restricted), it is
possible for the subscriber to present his CLI on a per call basis. The MS
shall send a CLIR suppression information element to the network.
If the subscriber tries to override CLIR (i.e. requests that the CLI is
displayed), when he has subscribed to permanent mode a NotifySS shall be sent
to the MS in order to inform that the override has not been performed and the
call set-up shall continue.
> MSa Network
>
> SETUP
>
>
> \------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
>
> CLIR suppression
>
> FACILITY
>
> \
> * * *
>
> Facility (Invoke = NotifySS (CLIR, CLIR Suppression Rejected))
Figure 2.1: Requesting presentation of CLI
## 2.3 Requesting restriction of CLI presentation
When the CLIR presentation mode is temporary (presentation allowed), it is
possible for the subscriber to restrict the CLI on a per call basis. The MS
shall send a CLIR invocation information element to the network.
If the subscriber has not subscribed to CLIR and tries to invoke CLIR (i.e.
requests that the CLI is not displayed), the SETUP shall be rejected. The MS
and the network shall act in accordance with 3GPP TS 24.008 network initiated
call clearing procedure, see figure 2.2.
> MSa Network
>
> SETUP
>
>
> \------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
>
> CLIR invocation
>
> DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE
>
> \
> * * *
>
> Cause #50 (Facility not subscribed, diagnostic = CLIR not subscribed)
Figure 2.2: Requesting restriction of CLI presentation
## 2.4 Interrogation
**Data request**
The mobile subscriber can request the data of the supplementary service.
If the service is not provisioned the network shall sent a return result
including the SS-Status parameter.
If the service is provisioned the network shall sent a return result including
the SS-Status and the CLI Restriction Option parameters.
> MSa Network
>
> REGISTER
>
>
> \------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
>
> Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (CLIR))
>
> RELEASE COMPLETE
>
>
> \
> Facility (Return Result = InterrogateSS (SS-Status, CLI Restriction Option))
>
> RELEASE COMPLETE
>
> \
> * * *
>
> Facility (Return Error (Error))
>
> RELEASE COMPLETE
>
> \
> * * *
>
> Facility (Reject (Invoke_problem))
Figure 2.3: Interrogation of calling line identification restriction
## 2.5 Activation, deactivation, registration and erasure
Activation, deactivation, registration and erasure of the supplementary
service calling line identification restriction are not applicable.
# 3 Connected Line Identification Presentation (COLP)
## 3.1 Normal operation
The connected line identity consists of a connected number and optionally, a
connected subaddress.
The connected number is made up of a number of information units as indicated
in 3GPP TS 24.008.
In addition to or instead of the connected number digits, the subscriber may
be given the following information:
\- screening indicator;
\- presentation indicator.
Indicator values are given in 3GPP TS 24.008.
In the call set-up phase the calling mobile subscriber receives the
information at the end of the call set-up.
The connected subaddress information element is made up of a number of
information units as indicated in 3GPP TS 24.008.
A calling mobile subscriber subscribing to connected line identification
presentation receives a message with the information indicated above, see
figure 3.1.
MSa Network
CONNECT
\
Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (COLP))
RELEASE COMPLETE
\
Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (COLR))
RELEASE COMPLETE
\<\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Facility (Return Result = InterrogateSS (SS-Status))
RELEASE COMPLETE
\<\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
* * *
Facility (Return Error (Error))
RELEASE COMPLETE
\<\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
* * *
Facility (Reject (Invoke_problem))
Figure 4.1: Interrogation of connected line identification restriction
## 4.3 Activation, deactivation, registration and erasure
Activation, deactivation, registration and erasure of the supplementary
service connected line identification restriction are not applicable.
#