# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
This TS specifies the procedures used at the radio interface for normal
operation, registration, erasure, activation, deactivation, invocation and
interrogation of call completion supplementary services within the 3GPP
system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version 3.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 0 Scope
The present document specifies the procedures used at the radio interface
(Reference point Um as defined in 3GPP TS 24.002) for normal operation,
registration, erasure, activation, deactivation, invocation and interrogation
of call completion supplementary services. Provision and withdrawal of
supplementary services is an administrative matter between the mobile
subscriber and the service provider and cause no signalling on the radio
interface.
In 3GPP TS 24.010 the general aspects of the specification of supplementary
services at the layer 3 radio interface are given.
3GPP TS 24.080 specifies the formats and coding for the supplementary
services.
Definitions and descriptions of supplementary services are given in 3GPP TS
22.004 and 3GPP TS 22.08x and 3GPP TS 22.09x‑series. 3GPP TS 22.083 is related
specially to call completion supplementary services.
Technical realization of supplementary services is described in 3GPP TS 23.011
and GSM 03.8x and GSM 03.9x‑series.
3GPP TS 23.083 is related specially to call completion supplementary services.
The procedures for Call Control, Mobility Management and Radio Resource
management at the layer 3 radio interface are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007 and
3GPP TS 24.008.
The following supplementary services belong to the call completion
supplementary services and are described in the present document:
‑ Call waiting (CW) (clause 1);
‑ Call hold (HOLD) (clause 2).
## 0.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.081: \"Line identification supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary
services ‑ Stage 1\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.084: \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services ‑ Stage
1\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.086: \"Advice of charge (AoC) supplementary services ‑ Stage
1\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[10] 3GPP TS 22.090: \"Unstructured Supplementary Services Data (USSD) ‑ Stage
1\".
[11] 3GPP TS 22.091: \"ECT supplementary services operation ‑ Stage 1\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Technical realization of supplementary services\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.081: \"Line identification supplementary services ‑ Stage 2\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑ Stage
2\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary
services ‑ Stage 2\".
[16] 3GPP TS 23.084: \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services ‑ Stage 2\".
[17] 3GPP TS 23.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services ‑ Stage
2\".
[18] 3GPP TS 23.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) supplementary services ‑ Stage
2\".
[19] 3GPP TS 23.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services ‑ Stage 2\".
[20] 3GPP TS 23.090: \"Unstructured supplementary services operation ‑ Stage
2\".
[21] 3GPP TS 23.091: \"Explicit Call Transfer (ECT) supplementary service ‑
Stage 2\".
[22] 3GPP TS 24.002: \"GSM-UMTS Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) Access
Reference Configuration\".
[23] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General
aspects\".
[24] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification\".
[25] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3; Supplementary services
specification; General aspects\".
[26] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary services
specification; Formats and coding\".
[27] 3GPP TS 24.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑ Stage
3\".
## 0.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905.
# 1 Call Waiting (CW)
## 1.1 Waiting call indication and confirmation
When this service is activated for the controlling subscriber B and the
B‑subscriber has calls only in states U10 (Active) or U26 (MO Modify) as
defined in 3GPP TS 24.008, the arrival of an incoming call from subscriber C
shall, if no other call is waiting be signalled to the mobile station B by a
normal call indication. In that case the network and the mobile station shall
act in accordance with 3GPP TS 24.008. The transaction identifier shall be the
transaction identifier (C‑B) allocated to the waiting call and must not be the
same as the transaction identifier (A‑B) for the already existing call (see
figure 1.1). In the CALL CONFIRMED message sent to the network the Cause
information element shall be included with cause #17 \"user busy\" (see figure
1.1). When the ALERTING message is received by the network the call waiting
timer T2 shall be started or if call forwarding on no reply is activated for
the B‑subscriber the no reply condition timer T3 shall be started.
If the network received a non‑zero SS Screening indicator from the calling
users mobile station the ALERTING/FACILITY message sent to a calling mobile
user shall include the Facility information element with an invoke of the
Notification operation indicating that the call is waiting (see figure 1.2).
If the network did not receive a non‑zero SS Screening indicator from the
calling users mobile station it shall not send a notification, i.e. either the
ALERTING message does not include the Notification operation or the FACILITY
message is omitted.
MS Network
SETUP
\
.....Transaction identifier(C-B).....
.....Cause #17 (user busy).....
ALERTING
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
.....Transaction identifier(C-B)..... start T2/T3
NOTE: The SETUP message shall include a \"Signal Information\" element with
value #7 (call waiting tone on). This shall be used by the MS to generate an
appropriate call waiting indication.
Figure 1.1: Call indication to the mobile station on arrival of an incoming
call\ and call confirmation from the mobile station
MS Network
SETUP
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
CALL PROCEEDING
\
.....Transaction identifier(A-B).....
HOLD ACKNOWLEDGE
\
.....Transaction identifier(C-B)..... stop T2/T3
CONNECT ACKNOWLEDGE
\
Facility (Invoke = ActivateSS (CW, BasicServiceCode))
RELEASE COMPLETE
\
Facility (Invoke = DeactivateSS (CW, BasicServiceCode))
RELEASE COMPLETE
\
Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (CW))
RELEASE COMPLETE
\
HOLD ACKNOWLEDGE
\
RETRIEVE ACKNOWLEDGE
\
RETRIEVE (TI A-C)
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
HOLD ACKNOWLEDGE (TI A-B)
\<\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
RETRIEVE ACKNOWLEDGE (TI A-C)
\<\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HOLD REJECT (TI A-B)
\<\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
* * *
.....Cause.....
RETRIEVE REJECT (TI A-C)
\<\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
* * *
.....Cause.....
NOTE: TI A‑B indicates the transaction identifier allocated to the original
active call and TI A‑C indicates the transaction identifier allocated to the
original held call.
Figure 2.5: Alternate procedure
### 2.1.5 Auxiliary states for hold and retrieve
It is possible to place a call on hold in the Active state. The concept of
dimensioned state space is being introduced to ensure state synchronization
between the mobile station and the network. This concept suggests dimensioning
the call state machine into two dimensions. In other words, there would be two
states associated with each call. The first would be a 3GPP TS 24.008 call
state and the second would be an auxiliary state associated with hold. Suppose
the dimensioned state space is represented by two co-ordinates: one is a 3GPP
TS 24.008 call state co-ordinate and the other is a hold co-ordinate. If a
3GPP TS 24.008 call state transition occurs, the former co-ordinate is
updated. If a call is put on hold, the hold co-ordinate is updated. When the
held call is reconnected, the hold co-ordinate is again updated.
There are four auxiliary states associated with the hold and retrieve
functions:
‑ Idle;
‑ Hold request;
A request has been made for the hold function.
‑ Call held;
The call is held and the user information path has been reserved.
‑ Retrieve request;
A request has been made for the retrieve function.
### 2.1.6 An example of dimensioned state space
Suppose a call is in the Active state.
The dimensioned state space would be:
(Active, Idle).
Now the mobile station requests the hold function.
The dimensioned state space would become:
(Active, Hold request).
The call is then put on hold.
The mobile station becomes aware of this upon receiving the HOLD ACKNOWLEDGE
message from the network.
The dimensioned state space would now be:
(Active, Call held).
Now the mobile station requests the retrieve function.
The dimensioned state space would become:
(Active, Retrieve request).
When a call is reconnected, the dimensioned state space would be:
(Active, Idle).
## 2.2 Activation and deactivation
Activation and deactivation of the supplementary service call hold cause no
signalling on the radio path.
## 2.3 Registration, erasure and interrogation
Registration, erasure and interrogation of the supplementary service call hold
are not applicable.
#