# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
This TS specifies the procedures used at the radio interface for normal
operation and invocation of MultiParty supplementary services within the 3GPP
system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version 3.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 0 Scope
The present document specifies the procedures used at the radio interface
(Reference point Um as defined in 3GPP TS 24.002) for normal operation and
invocation of MultiParty supplementary services.
In 3GPP TS 24.010 the general aspects of the specification of supplementary
services at the layer 3 radio interface are given.
3GPP TS 24.080 specifies the formats and coding for the supplementary
services.
Definitions and descriptions of supplementary services are given in 3GPP TS
22.004 and the 3GPP TS 22.08x and 3GPP TS 22.09x‑series.
3GPP TS 22.084 is related specially to MultiParty supplementary services.
Technical realization of supplementary services is described in 3GPP TS 23.011
and the 3GPP TS 23.08x and 3GPP TS 23.09x‑series.
3GPP TS 23.084 is related specially to MultiParty supplementary services.
The procedures for Call Control, Mobility Management and Radio Resource
management at the layer 3 radio interface are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007 and
3GPP TS 24.008.
The following supplementary service belongs to the MultiParty supplementary
services and is described in the present document:
\- MultiParty service (MPTY) (clause 1).
## 0.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.081: \"Line identification supplementary services - Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services - Stage 1\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary
services - Stage 1\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.084: \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services - Stage 1\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services - Stage
1\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.086: \"Advice of charge (AoC) supplementary services - Stage
1\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services - Stage 1\".
[10] 3GPP TS 22.090: \"Unstructured Supplementary Services Data (USSD) \-
Stage 1\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Technical realization of supplementary services\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.081: \"Line identification supplementary services - Stage 2\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services - Stage
2\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary
services - Stage 2\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.084: \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services - Stage 2\".
[16] 3GPP TS 23.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services \- Stage
2\".
[17] 3GPP TS 23.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) supplementary services - Stage
2\".
[18] 3GPP TS 23.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services - Stage 2\".
[19] 3GPP TS 23.090: \"Unstructured supplementary services operation - Stage
2\".
[20] 3GPP TS 24.002: \"GSM-UMTS Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) Access
Reference Configuration\".
[21] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3\".
[22] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification\".
[23] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3; Supplementary services
specification\".
[24] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary services
specification; Formats and coding\".
[25] 3GPP TS 24.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary
services - Stage 3\".
## 0.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905.
# 1 MultiParty service (MPTY)
## 1.1 Beginning the MultiParty service
The served mobile subscriber A may initiate an active MultiParty call from an
active call C and a held call B.
The mobile station invokes the service by sending a FACILITY message to the
network containing the BuildMPTY request. This BuildMPTY request indicates to
the network that the mobile subscriber wishes all his calls to be connected
together in a MultiParty call. The network will normally accept the request
and connect the mobile subscriber with the other existing connections (active
call C and held call B). If the request is not accepted, the network will
indicate the error to the served mobile (see figure 1.1). The network confirms
with the same transaction identifier. Error values are specified in 3GPP TS
24.080.
During the BuildMPTY operation the MS shall run a timer T(BuildMPTY). This
timer is started when the operation is sent, and stopped when a response is
received from the network. If this timer expires the MS shall assume that the
operation has failed, locally release the invokeID, and may re-attempt the
operation or inform the user of the failure.
MS Network
FACILITY (TI A-B/A-C)
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
Facility (Invoke = BuildMPTY)
FACILITY (TI A-B/A-C)
\
Facility (Invoke = HoldMPTY)
FACILITY (TI A-X)
\
Facility (Invoke = SplitMPTY)
FACILITY (TI A-X)
\
Facility (Invoke = RetrieveMPTY)
FACILITY (TI A-X)
\<\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Facility (Return result)
FACILITY/DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE (TI A-X)
\<\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
* * *
Facility (Return error (Error))
FACILITY/DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE (TI A-X)
\<\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
* * *
Facility (Reject (Invoke_problem))
NOTE: X = Any remote party in MultiParty call.
Figure 1.6: Served mobile subscriber retrieves MultiParty call
No CallRetrieved notification shall be sent towards the remote parties in the
MultiParty call.
#### 1.3.1.2 Initiate a new call
This is achieved by normal call set-up procedures (3GPP TS 24.008).
#### 1.3.1.3 Process a call waiting request
This is described in 3GPP TS 24.083.
#### 1.3.1.4 Terminate the held MultiParty call
This is achieved by the same procedure as in subclause 1.2.1.3.
#### 1.3.1.5 Explicitly disconnect a remote party
This is achieved by the same procedure as in subclause 1.2.1.4.
### 1.3.2 Remote parties
During a held MultiParty call any remote party is able to perform the same
operations as described for an active MultiParty call in subclause 1.2.2.
## 1.4 Managing a single call and a MultiParty call
### 1.4.1 Served mobile subscriber
If the served mobile subscriber is connected to a MultiParty call (active or
on hold) and another single call (active or on hold), he can request the
network to:
#### 1.4.1.1 Disconnect the single call
This is achieved by using the call clearing procedure as described in 3GPP TS
24.008 with the transaction identifier corresponding to the single call.
#### 1.4.1.2 Disconnect the MPTY
This is achieved by the same procedure as disconnecting a held/active MPTY
without another call (see subclauses 1.2.1 and 1.3.1).
#### 1.4.1.3 Disconnect all calls
This is achieved by using the procedures in subclauses 1.4.1.1 and 1.4.1.2.
#### 1.4.1.4 Add the single call to the MPTY
The served mobile subscriber may request the connection of all his calls, held
and active, into an active MultiParty call at any time by sending a FACILITY
message with the transaction identifier corresponding to any remote party and
containing the BuildMPTY invoke component (see subclause 1.1). This procedure
will apply whether the MultiParty call is on hold or active, and whether the
single call is on hold or active.
If the request is successful, the new remote party, if previously held, will
receive a MPTY notification and a CallRetrieved notification as shown in
figure 1.2, and previously active remote parties will receive an MPTY
notification as shown in figure 1.3. If the network did not receive a non-zero
SS Screening indicator from the remote party\'s mobile station it shall not
send a notification.
The MSC Server controlling the server mobile subscriber A shall send an ISUP
CPG \'remote retrieval\' or/and \'conference established\' notification
towards a new remote held party; it may send an ISUP CPG \'conference
established\' notification towards a new remote active party. It may also send
an ISUP CPG \'other party added\' notification towards the other remote
parties.
NOTE: Sending a single ISUP CPG \'conference established\' notification
towards a new remote held party is possible if the remote node is able to
derive the \'retrieve\' notification from the \'conference established\'
notification.
An incoming ISUP CPG \'other party added\' notification may be mapped into a
NotifySS (MPTY indicator) as specified above.
If the request is unsuccessful e.g. because the maximum number of remote
parties has already been reached, then an error is returned to the served
mobile subscriber, as shown in figure 1.1. Error values are specified in 3GPP
TS 24.080.
#### 1.4.1.5 Alternate between the MPTY call and the single call
This procedure follows the Alternate procedure defined in 3GPP TS 24.083 with
the exception that the MPTY call is held/retrieved using HoldMPTY/RetrieveMPTY
in place of HOLD/RETRIEVE as follows:
* * *
**Single call** **MPTY call** (Facility)
HOLD Invoke (HoldMPTY) HOLD ACKNOWLEDGE Return result HOLD REJECT Return error
(error)
RETRIEVE Invoke (RetrieveMPTY) RETRIEVE ACKNOWLEDGE Return result RETRIEVE
REJECT Return error (error)
* * *
## 1.5 Adding extra remote parties
Extra remote parties are added by placing the MultiParty call on hold
(subclause 1.2.1.1), setting up a new connection (either a new call or a
waiting call) and then sending a FACILITY message to the network requesting
that the active call be joined with the MPTY, using the same signalling as for
invocation (see figure 1.1). This results in an active MultiParty call.
Notifications are sent as for the initial invocation (i.e. the new remote
party, if previously held, will receive a CallRetrieved notification and MPTY
notification; all other party only receives an MPTY notification) (see figures
1.2 and 1.3). If the network did not receive a non-zero SS Screening indicator
from the remote party\'s mobile station it shall not send a notification.
The MSC Server controlling the server mobile subscriber A shall send an ISUP
CPG \'remote retrieval\' or/and \'conference established\' notification
towards a new remote held party; it may send an ISUP CPG \'conference
established\' notification towards a new remote active party. It may also send
an ISUP CPG \'other party added\' notification towards the other remote
parties.
NOTE: Sending a single ISUP CPG \'conference established\' notification
towards a new remote held party is possible if the remote node is able to
derive the \'retrieve\' notification from the \'conference established\'
notification.
An incoming ISUP CPG \'other party added\' notification may be mapped into a
NotifySS (MPTY indicator) as specified above.
If the request is not accepted, e.g. because the maximum number of remote
parties has already been reached, then the error is indicated to the mobile
station. Error values are specified in 3GPP TS 24.080.
## 1.6 Auxiliary states for MPTY
In the call hold service (3GPP TS 24.083), a two dimensional state space is
defined, where the first dimension corresponds to the 3GPP TS 24.008 call
control state and the second dimension corresponds to the call hold state
(Idle, Hold Request, Call Held, Retrieve Request). For the purposes of the
MPTY service, it is necessary to introduce another dimension to this state
space, i.e. the MultiParty state.
There are four auxiliary states associated with the MPTY service:
\- Idle;
\- MPTY request;
A request has been made to add this call to the MPTY.
\- Call in MPTY;
This call is in the MPTY.
\- Split request;
A request has been made to remove this call from the MPTY.
These Auxiliary states apply in addition to the 3GPP TS 24.008 call control
states and the 3GPP TS 24.083 call hold states. Thus for example, an active
call in a held MPTY has the state (Active, Call held, Call in MPTY). Not all
states are allowed, for example an MPTY cannot be split while it is held, so
(Active, Call held, Split request) is forbidden.
## 1.7 Activation, deactivation, registration, erasure and interrogation
Activation, deactivation, registration, erasure and interrogation of the
MultiParty service are not applicable.
## 1.8 Simultaneous use of MultiParty operations
The operations BuildMPTY, SplitMPTY, HoldMPTY and RetrieveMPTY interact with
each other, and cannot be applied simultaneously. Once the mobile station has
initiated one of these operations, it shall not initiate another MultiParty
operation until the first operation has been acknowledged by the network, or
the MS locally determines (due to timer expiry) that the first operation has
failed.
The use of several MultiParty operations as different components in the same
message is not allowed.
#