# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
This TS specifies the procedures used at the radio interface for normal
operation, registration, erasure, activation, deactivation, invocation and
interrogation of call transfer supplementary services within the 3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version 3.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 1 Scope
The present document gives the stage 3 description of the call transfer
supplementary services.
The present document specifies the procedures used at the radio interface
(Reference point Um as defined in 3GPP TS 24.002) for normal operation,
registration, erasure, activation, deactivation, invocation and interrogation
of call transfer supplementary services. Provision and withdrawal of
supplementary services is an administrative matter between the mobile
subscriber and the service provider and cause no signalling on the radio
interface.
In 3GPP TS 24.010 the general aspects of the specification of supplementary
services at the layer 3 radio interface are given.
3GPP TS 24.080 specifies the formats and coding for the supplementary
services.
Definitions and descriptions of supplementary services are given in 3GPP TS
22.004, 3GPP TS 22.08x and 3GPP TS 22.09x‑series. 3GPP TS 22.091 is related
specifically to call transfer supplementary services.
The technical realization of supplementary services is described in 3GPP TS
23.011, 3GPP TS 23.08x and 3GPP TS 23.09x‑series. 3GPP TS 23.091 is related
specifically to call transfer supplementary services.
The procedures for Call Control, Mobility Management and Radio Resource
management at the layer 3 radio interface are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007 and
3GPP TS 24.008.
The following supplementary services belong to the call transfer supplementary
services and are described in the present document:
‑ Explicit Call Transfer (ECT) (see clause 4).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.030: \"Man‑Machine Interface (MMI) of the Mobile Station
(MS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.081: \"Line identification supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary
services ‑ Stage 1\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.084: \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services ‑ Stage
1\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) Supplementary Services ‑ Stage
1\".
[10] 3GPP TS 22.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[11] 3GPP TS 22.090: \"Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD )‑ Stage
1\".
[12] 3GPP TS 22.091: \"Explicit Call Transfer (ECT)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Technical realization of supplementary services\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.081: \"Line identification supplementary services ‑ Stage 2\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑ Stage
2\".
[16] 3GPP TS 23.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary
services ‑ Stage 2\".
[17] 3GPP TS 23.084: \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services ‑ Stage 2\".
[18] 3GPP TS 23.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services ‑ Stage
2\".
[19] 3GPP TS 23.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) supplementary services ‑ Stage
2\".
[20] 3GPP TS 23.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services ‑ Stage 2\".
[21] 3GPP TS 23.090: \"Unstructured supplementary services operation ‑ Stage
2\".
[22] 3GPP TS 23.091: \"Explicit Call Transfer (ECT) supplementary service ‑
Stage 2\".
[23] 3GPP TS 24.002: \"GSM-UMTS Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) access
reference configuration\".
[24] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General
aspects\".
[25] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification\".
[26] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3; Supplementary services
specification; General aspects\".
[27] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary services
specification; Formats and coding\".
# 3 Abbreviations
The abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905.
# 4 Explicit Call Transfer (ECT)
## 4.1 Normal operation
The Explicit Call Transfer (ECT) function should be invoked in association
with two existing calls which one is answered and in the held state and the
other is answered and active or alerting.
The Mobile Station (MS) invokes the service by sending a FACILITY message to
the network containing the ECT request (ECT request). This ECT request
indicates to the network that the mobile subscriber wishes the two calls to be
connected together. The MS shall not change the basic call state or the
auxiliary state of either call when sending ECT request.
The network will normally accept the ECT request and connect the two calls,
indicates the success of the ECT request to the served subscriber and
disconnect afterwards the served mobile subscriber from both calls (see figure
1).
If the ECT request is not accepted, the network will indicate the error to the
served subscriber (see figure 1) and leaves the two calls to the condition it
was in prior to the ECT request. The network confirms with the same
transaction identifier. The detailed coding of the different error values are
specified in 3GPP TS 24.080. Which error value is used in which error case is
described below.
During the ECT operation the MS shall run a timer T~ECT~. This timer is
started when the operation is sent, and stopped when a response is received
from the network. If this timer expires the MS shall assume that the operation
has failed, locally release the invokeID, and may re‑attempt the operation or
inform the user of the failure.
## 4.2 Explicit Call Transfer invocation
MS Network
FACILITY (TI A-B/A-C)
\--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------->
Facility (Invoke = ExplicitCT)
DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE (TI A-B/A-C)
\
Facility (Invoke = ProcessUnstructuredSS-Request (ussd-DataCodingScheme,
ussd-String = \))
RELEASE COMPLETE (PD=SS)
\))
DISCONNECT/RELEASE/RELEASE COMPLETE (TI=A-B, PD=CC)
\))
RELEASE COMPLETE (PD=SS)
\\" and \"\\" shall be defined by the network operator. Each network shall define
only one \"\\" and only one \"\\"
for each error identified in table 1.
For Phase 1 USSD the operation ProcessUnstructuredSS-Request is replaced by
ProcessUnstructuredSS-Data.
## 5.2 Notification to the remote parties
No alternative procedures are defined for sending notifications to remote
parties indicating that the call has been transferred.
#