# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
This TS specifies the procedures used at the radio interface for normal
operation, registration, erasure, activation, deactivation, invocation and
interrogation of line identification supplementary services within the 3GPP
system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version 3.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 1 Scope
This Technical Specification (TS ) specifies the procedures used at the radio
interface for normal operation, registration, erasure, activation,
deactivation, invocation and interrogation of name identification
supplementary services. Provision and withdrawal of supplementary services is
an administrative matter between the mobile subscriber and the service
provider and cause no signalling on the radio interface.
In 3GPP TS 24.010 the general aspects of the specification of supplementary
services at the layer 3 radio interface are given. 3GPP TS 24.080 specifies
the formats and coding for the supplementary services.
Definitions and descriptions of supplementary services are given in 3GPP TS
22.004 and 3GPP TS 22.08x and 3GPP TS 22.09x‑series. 3GPP TS 22.096 is related
specially to name identification supplementary services.
Technical realization of supplementary services is described in 3GPP TS 23.011
and 3GPP TS 23.08x and 3GPP TS 23.09x‑series. Technical specification 3GPP TS
23.096 is related specially to name identification supplementary services.
The procedures for Call Control, Mobility Management and Radio Resource
management at the layer 3 radio interface are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007 and
3GPP TS 24.008.
The following supplementary services belong to the name identification
supplementary services and are described in this TS:
\- Calling name presentation (CNAP);
# 2 Normative references
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
General on supplementary services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.096: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Name identification supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Technical realization of supplementary services\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.096: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system(Phase 2+);
Name identification supplementary services ‑ Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General aspects\".
[7] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification\".
[8] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Mobile radio interface layer 3; Supplementary services specification; General
aspects\".
[9] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary services specification; Formats
and coding\".
# 3 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the TS are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905.
# 4 Calling Name Presentation (CNAP)
## 4.1 Normal operation
The calling name identity is made up of calling party\'s name - up to 80
characters.
The MS shall be given one of the following in the name indicator:
\- calling name identity;
\- presentation indicator of presentation restricted;
\- presentation indicator of name unavailable; or
\- calling name identity and presentation restricted (for the case where the
CNAP override category is provisioned).
If the network has received a non-zero SS screening indicator from the MS,
then calling name information indicated above shall be sent to the MS as
defined in figure 1. If the network did not receive a non-zero SS screening
indicator form the MS, then calling name information shall not be sent to the
MS.
MS Network
SETUP
\
Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (CNAP))
RELEASE COMPLETE
\<\-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Facility (Return Result = InterrogateSS (SS-Status))
RELEASE COMPLETE
\<\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
* * *
Facility (Return Error (Error))
RELEASE COMPLETE
\<\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
* * *
Facility (Reject (Invoke_problem))
Figure 2: Interrogation of calling name identification presentation
## 4.3 Activation, deactivation, registration and erasure
Activation, deactivation, registration and erasure of the supplementary
service Calling Name presentation (CNAP) are not applicable.
#