# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document defines the IMS conferencing management object. The management
object is compatible with OMA Device Management protocol specifications,
version 1.2 and upwards, and is defined using the OMA DM Device Description
Framework as described in the Enabler Release Definition OMA-ERELD_DM-V1_2
[3].
The IMS conferencing management object consists of relevant parameters that
can be managed for IMS conferencing capabilities.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 24.147: \"Conferencing using the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network
(CN) subsystem; Stage 3\".
[3] OMA-ERELD-DM-V1_2-20070209-A : \"Enabler Release Definition for OMA Device
Management, Version 1.2\".
[4] IETF RFC 4579 (August 2006): \"Session Initiation Protocol Call Control -
Conferencing for User Agents\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] apply.
The following terms and definitions given in in IETF RFC 4579 [4] apply:
**Conference Factory URI**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CN Core Network
DDF Device Description Framework
DM Device Management
IMS IP Multimedia core network Subsystem
IP Internet Protocol
MO Management Object
OMA Open Mobile Alliance
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
SNPN Stand-alone Non-Public Network
UE User Equipment
# 4 IMS conferencing management object
The IMS conferencing management object is used to manage configuration
settings of the UE for IMS conferencing. The management object covers
parameters for IMS conferencing related capabilities. The management object
enables the management of the settings on behalf of the end user.
The Management Object Identifier is: urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-conf:1.0.
Protocol compatibility: This MO is compatible with OMA DM 1.2.
Figure 1: The 3GPP Conferencing Management Object
# 5 Management object parameters
## 5.1 General
This clause describes the parameters for the IMS conferencing management
object.
## 5.2 Node: /_\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more accounts for a fixed
node.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
The interior node is mandatory if the UE supports one or more IMS conferencing
capabilities. Support for a UE is defined by the related roles as defined by
the related IMS conferencing service.
NOTE: One node is normally used.
## 5.3 /_\ _/Name
The Name leaf is a name for the conferencing settings.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
## 5.4 /_\ _/Conf_Factory_URI
The Conf_Factory_URI leaf defines a Conference Factory URI as defined by IETF
RFC 4579 [4] that is supported by a subscriber\'s network as described in 3GPP
TS 24.147 [2].
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
## 5.5 /_\ _/Ext
The Ext is an interior node for where the vendor specific information about
the IMS conferencing management is being placed (vendor meaning application
vendor, device vendor etc.). Usually the vendor extension is identified by
vendor specific name under the ext node. The tree structure under the vendor
identified is not defined and can therefore include one or more un-
standardized sub-trees.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
## 5.6 /_\ _/SNPN_Configuration
This interior node contains configuration parameters regarding a UE operating
in SNPN access operation mode.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
## 5.7 /_\ _/SNPN_Configuration/\
This interior node acts as a placeholder for a list of:
a) SNPN identity; and
b) configuration parameters.
NOTE: For each of the elements in the list, a) must be present and at least
one parameter of b) needs to appear.
A configuration parameter in an /\/SNPN_Configuration/\ node other than
the SNPN_identifier, is applicable when the UE selects an entry of \"list of
subscriber data\":
a) with the SNPN identity of the subscribed SNPN which is the same as the SNPN
identity in the SNPN_identifier leaf.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
## 5.8 /_\ _/SNPN_Configuration/\/SNPN_identifier
This leaf indicates the SNPN identity of the subscribed SNPN for which the
list of configuration parameters are applicable.
> \- Occurrence: One
>
> \- Format: chr
>
> \- Access Types: Get, Replace
>
> \- Values: \\
The PLMN and NID are in the format defined by 3GPP TS 23.003 [5], with each
digit of the MCC and MNC of the PLMN and each digit of the assignment mode and
NID value of the NID encoded as an ASCII character.
## 5.9 /_\ _/Conf_Factory_URI
The Conf_Factory_URI leaf defines a Conference Factory URI as defined by IETF
RFC 4579 [4] that is supported by a subscriber\'s network as described in 3GPP
TS 24.147 [2].
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
###### ## Annex A (informative): Management object DDF
This DDF is the standardized minimal set. A vendor can define its own DDF for
the complete device. This DDF can include more features than this minimal
standardized version.
\
**\ **
\
**\ 1.2\**
**\ \--The device manufacturer--\**
\\--The device model--\
**\ **
**\  IMS conferencing** \**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ IMS conferencing configuration parameters\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ The IMS conferencing Management Object.\**
**\ **
**\ urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-conf:1.0\**
\
\
**\ **
**\ Name\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Name for conference settings.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Conference_Factory_URI\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
\
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ The Confernece Factory URI.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
\
**\ **
**\ SNPN_Configuration\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ SNPN Configuration.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ SNPN fonfiguration parameters.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ SNPN_identifier\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Identifier of the SNPN.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Conference_Factory_URI\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ The Confernece Factory URI.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Ext\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ A collection of all Extension objects.\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
\
\
\
#