# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) was been produced by ETSI Technical
Committee Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for
Advanced Networking (TISPAN) and originally published as ETSI TS 183 004 [19].
It was transferred to the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) in January
2008.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 3, Protocol Description of the
Communications Diversion (CDIV) supplementary services, based on stage one and
two of the ISDN Communication diversion supplementary services. It provides
the protocol details in the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem
based on the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and the Session Description
Protocol (SDP).
The present document is applicable to User Equipment (UE) and Application
Servers (AS) which are intended to support the CDIV supplementary service.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.173: \"Multimedia Telephony Service and supplementary
services\".
[2] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP Multimedia Call Control Protocol based on SIP and
SDP\".
[3] IETF RFC 7044: \"An Extension to the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) for
Request History Information\".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.623: \"Extensible Markup Language (XML) Configuration Access
Protocol (XCAP) over the Ut interface for Manipulating Supplementary
Services\".
[5] IETF RFC 4566: \"SDP: Session Description Protocol\".
[6] IETF RFC 3261: \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\".
[7] IETF RFC 3966: \"The tel URI for Telephone Numbers\".
[8] IETF RFC 3325: \"Private Extensions to the Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP) for Asserted Identity within Trusted Networks\".
[9] 3GPP TS 24.611: \"Anonymous Communication Rejection (ACR) and
Communication Barring (CB); Protocol specification\".
[10] Void.
[11] 3GPP TS 24.628: \"Common Basic Communication procedures; Protocol
specification\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network Architecture\".
[13] Void.
[14] IETF RFC 4458: \"Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) URIs for Applications
such as Voicemail and Interactive Voice Response (IVR)\".
[15] Void.
[16] 3GPP TS 24.629: \"Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT); Protocol
specification\".
[17] IETF RFC 3515: \"The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Refer Method\".
[18] IETF RFC 4745: \"Common Policy: A Document Format for Expressing Privacy
Preferences\".
[19] ETSI TS 183 004 V2.4.0: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged
Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); PSTN/ISDN simulation
services: Communication Diversion (CDIV); Protocol specification\".
[20] IETF RFC 5627 (October 2009): \"Obtaining and Using Globally Routable
User Agent URIs (GRUUs) in the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)\".
[21] OMA-TS-XDM-Core-V1_1: \"XML Document Management (XDM) Specification\",
Version 1.1.
[22] 3GPP TS 24.238: \"Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) based user
configuration\".
[23] Void.
[24] IETF RFC 3326: \"The Reason Header Field for the Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP)\".
[25] 3GPP TS 24.315: \"IMS Operator Determined Barring\".
[26] IETF RFC 3023 (January 2001): \"XML Media Types\".
[27] IETF RFC 4288 (December 2005): \"Media Type Specifications and
Registration Procedures\".
[28] IETF RFC 7090 (April 2014): \"Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP)
Callback\".
[29] IETF RFC 7647 (September 2015): \"Clarifications for the Use of REFER
with RFC6665\".
[30] IETF RFC 4694 (October 2006): \"Number Portability Parameters for the
\"tel\" URI\".
[31] 3GPP TS 24.196: \"Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Enhanced Calling Name\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 22.173 [1] and the following apply:
**CDIV Session Identifier URI:** URI created and inserted by a diverting AS
that is routed through the same AS.
NOTE 1: This is used to solve the service interaction of CDIV and ECT.
**escaped character:** see IETF RFC 3261 [6].
**diverting user:** served user of the communication diversion service
invoked.
**diverted-to party:** party that the existing communication is forwarded to.
NOTE 2: After forwarding the originating user and the diverted-to party are in
communication with each other.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ACM Address Complete Message
ACR Anonymous Communication Rejection
ANM ANswer Message
AP Authentication Proxy
AS Application Server
CB Communication Barring
CD Communication Deflection
CDIV Communication DIVersion
CFB Communication Forwarding Busy
CFNL Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in
CFNR Communication Forwarding No Reply
CFNRc Communication Forwarding on subscriber Not Reachable
CFU Communication Forwarding Unconditional
CONF CONFerence
CPG Call ProGress message
CSCF Call Session Control Function
ECT Explicit Communication Transfer
HOLD communication HOLD
IAM Initial Address Message
IFC **Initial Filter Criteria**
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IP Internet Protocol
ISDN Integrated Service Data Network
ISUP Integrated Service digital network User Part
MCID Malicious Communication IDentification
MGCF Media Gateway Control Function
MiD **Multi-iDentity**
MuD **Multi-Device**
OCB Outgoing Communication Barring
ODB Operator Determined Barring
OIP Originating Identification Presentation
OIR Originating Identification Restriction
P-CSCF Proxy-Call Session Control Function
PSAP Public Safety Answering Point
PSTN Public Switched **Telephone** Network
RTP Real-Time Transport Protocol
S-CSCF Server-Call Session Control Function
SDP Session Description Protocol
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
TIP Terminating Identification Presentation
TIR Terminating Identification Restriction
UA User Agent
UE User Equipment
URI Universal Resource Identifier
XCAP XML Configuration Access Protocol
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Communication~~s~~ Diversion (CDIV)
## 4.1 Introduction
The **Communications Diversion (CDIV)** service enables diverting user, to
divert the communications addressed to diverting user to another destination.
Procedures for the CDIV AS regarding Operator Determined Barring (ODB) are
defined in 3GPP TS 24.315 [25].
## 4.2 Description
### 4.2.1 General description
#### 4.2.1.1 Service description
The service description of the following CDIVs ervices CFU, CFB, CFNR and CD
is based on the PSTN/ISDN supplementary services, whereas CFNL is a CDIV
service based on requirements for IP based networks and CFNRc is based on
requirements for mobile networks.
Generally, the following requirements are expected to be fulfilled:
\- The service provides for the user or the network to identify an alternative
destination for an IP multimedia session or individual media of an IP
multimedia session.
\- The service provides for redirection to be initiated at various stages of
an IP Multimedia session. For example:
a) Prior to the set up of an IP Multimedia session.
b) During the initial request for an IP Multimedia session (CFU).
c) During the establishment of an IP Multimedia session (CD).
\- The service provides redirection to be applied for all Multimedia sessions
unconditionally or it can be caused by any of a set list of events or
conditions. Typical causes could be:
a) Identity of the originating user.
b) Presence of the originating or destination party.
c) If the destination party is already in a session (CFB).
d) If the destination party is unreachable or unavailable in some other way
(CFNL; CFNR, CFNRc).
e) If the destination party does not respond (CFNR).
f) After a specified alerting interval (CFNR).
g) User\'s preference on routing for specific IP Multimedia session based on
the capabilities of multiple UEs sharing the same IMS service subscription.
h) The sending party, receiving party or the network on their behalf, may
initiate redirection to alternative destinations.
i) The service provides for the user to subscribe to receive notifications of
his/her communications diversions.
The following services describe applications based on a subset of the above-
mentioned requirements to provide user different possibilities to divert a
communication.
It should be possible that a user has the option to restrict receiving
communications that are forwarded.
#### 4.2.1.2 Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
The CFU service enables a served user to have the network redirect, to another
user, communications which are addressed to the served user\'s address. The
CFU service may operate on all communications, or just those associated with
specified services. The served user\'s ability to originate communications is
unaffected by the CFU supplementary service. After the CFU service has been
activated, communications are forwarded independent of the status of the
served user.
As a service provider option, a subscription option can be provided to enable
the served user to receive a reminder indication that the CFU service has been
activated. This indication is provided when the served user originates a
communication and if the CFU service has been activated for the served user\'s
address and for the service requested for the communication.
The maximum number of diversions permitted for each communication is a service
provider option. The service provider defines the upper limit of diversions.
When counting the number of diversions, all types of diversion are included.
#### 4.2.1.3 Communication Forwarding on Busy user (CFB)
The CFB service enables a served user to have the network redirect, to another
user, communications which are addressed to the served user\'s address and
meet busy. The CFB service may operate on all communications, or just those
associated with specified services. The served user\'s ability to originate
communications is unaffected by the CFB supplementary service.
As a service provider option, a subscription option can be provided to enable
the served user to receive a reminder indication that the CFB service has been
activated. This indication is provided when the served user originates a
communication and if the CFB service has been activated for the served user\'s
address and for the service requested for the communication.
The maximum number of diversions permitted for each communication is a service
provider option. The service provider defines the upper limit of diversions.
When counting the number of diversions, all types of diversion are included.
For more information on the procedures for determination of the busy condition
see 3GPP TS 24.628 [11].
#### 4.2.1.4 Communication Forwarding on no Reply (CFNR)
The CFNR service enables a served user to have the network redirect, to
another user, communications which are addressed to the served user\'s
address, and for which the connection is not established within a defined
period of time. The CFNR service may operate on all communications, or just
those associated with specified services. The served user\'s ability to
originate communications is unaffected by the CFNR supplementary service.
The CFNR service can only be invoked by the network after the communication
has been offered to the served user and an indication that the called user is
being informed of the communication has been received.
As a service provider option, a subscription option can be provided to enable
the served user to receive a reminder indication that the CFNR service has
been activated. This indication is provided when the served user originates a
communication and if the CFNR service has been activated for the served
user\'s address and for the service requested for the communication.
The maximum number of diversions permitted for each communication is a service
provider option. The service provider defines the upper limit of diversions.
When counting the number of diversions, all types of diversion are included.
#### 4.2.1.5 Communication Forwarding on Subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc)
The CFNRc service enables a user to have the network redirect all incoming
communications, when the user is not reachable (e.g. there is no IP
connectivity to the user\'s terminal), to another user. The CFNRc service may
operate on all communications, or just those associated with specified
services. The user\'s ability to originate communications is unaffected by the
CFNRc supplementary service.
As a service provider option, a subscription option can be provided to enable
the user to receive an indication that the CFNRc service has been activated.
This indication is provided when the user originates a communication if the
CFNRc service has been activated for the user and for the service requested
for the communication.
The maximum number of diversions permitted for each communication is a service
provider option. The service provider defines the upper limit of diversions.
When counting the number of diversions, all types of diversion are included.
#### 4.2.1.6 Communication Deflection (CD)
The CD service enables the served user to respond to an incoming communication
by requesting redirection of that communication to another user. The CD
service can only be invoked before the connection is established by the served
user, i.e. in response to the offered communication (before ringing), i.e. CD
Immediate, or during the period that the served user is being informed of the
communication (during ringing). The served user\'s ability to originate
communications is unaffected by the CD supplementary service.
The maximum number of diversions permitted for each communication is a network
provider option. The network provider defines the upper limit of diversions.
When counting the number of diversions, all types of diversion are included.
#### 4.2.1.7 Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in (CFNL)
The Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in (CFNL) service enables a served
user to redirect incoming communications which are addressed to the served
user\'s address, to another user (forwarded-to address) in case the served
user is not registered (logged-in). The CFNL service may operate on all
communications, or just those associated with specified basic services.
As a service provider option, a subscription option can be provided to enable
the served user to receive a reminder [ ]{.underline} indication that the CFNL
service has been activated. This indication is provided when the served user
logs out according to procedures described in IETF RFC 3261 [6].
The maximum number of diversions permitted for each communication is a service
provider option. The service provider defines the upper limit of diversions.
When counting the number of diversions, all types of diversion are included.
#### 4.2.1.8 Void
## 4.3 Operational requirements
### 4.3.1 Provision/withdrawal
The CDIV services (Communication forwarding unconditional, Communication
forwarding busy, Communication forwarding no reply, Communication forwarding
not logged-in, Communication deflection and Communication Diversion
Notification) is provided after prior arrangement with the service provider.
The CDIV services are withdrawn at the served user\'s request or for
administrative reasons.
The CDIV supplementary services can be offered separately with subscription
options. For each subscription option, only one value can be selected. These
subscription options are part of the call diversion profile for the served
user. The subscription options are shown in table 4.3.1.1.
Table 4.3.1.1: Subscription options for CDIV services
+-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Subscription options | Value | Applicability | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | _Served user_ receives | No (default)\ | CFU\ | | indication that a | _ | CFB\ | | communication has been | ___________\ | CFNR | | forwarded (indication | ____________ | | | of communication | | CFNRc | | diversion to the | Yes | | | diverting user). | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ |_Originating_ user | No\ | CFU\ | | receives notification | _ | CFB\ | | that his communication | ___________\ | CFNR | | has been diverted | ____________ | | | (forwarded or | | CFNRc\ | | deflected). | Yes (default) | CFNL\ | | | | CD | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Served user allows the | No\ | CFU\ | | presentation of | _ | CFB\ | | diverted to URI to | ___________\ | CFNR | | _originating_ user in | ____________ | | | diversion notification. | | CFNRc\ | | | Not reveal as GRUU\ | CFNL\ | | | _ | CD | | | ___________\ | | | |_ ___________ | | | | | | | | Yes (default) | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Served user receives | No (default)\ | CFU\ | | reminder indication on | _ | CFB\ | | outgoing communication | ___________\ | CFNR | | that CDIV is currently | ____________ | | | activated. | | CFNRc\ | | | Yes | CFNL | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Served user allows the | No\ | CFU\ | | presentation of his/her | _ | CFB\ | | URI to _diverted‑to_ | ___________\ | CFNR | | user. | ____________ | | | | | CFNRc\ | | | Not reveal as GRUU\ | CFNL\ | | | _ | CD | | | ___________\ | | | | ____________ | | | | | | | | Yes (default) | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Served user allows the | No\ | CFU\ | | presentation of his/her | _ | CFB\ | | URI to _originating_ | ___________\ | CFNR | | user in diversion | ____________ | | | notification. | | CFNRc\ | | | Not reveal as GRUU\ | CFNL\ | | | _ | CD | | | ___________\ | | | | ____________ | | | | | | | | Yes (default) | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
The following network provider options are available for the CDIV services:
Table 4.3.1.2: Network provider options for CDIV services
+-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Network provider option | Value | Applicability | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Served user | Retain communication to | CFNR\ | | communication retention | the served user until | CD | | on invocation of | alerting begins at the | | | diversion (forwarding | diverted-to user\ | | | or deflection). | _ | | | | ___________\ | | | | ____________ | | | | | | | | Clear communication to | | | | the served user on | | | | invocation of call | | | | diversion | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Served user | Continue to alert the | CFNR | | communication retention | diverting user (see | | | when diverting is | note 1)\ | CD | | rejected at\ | _ | | | diverted-to user. | ___________\ | | | |_ ___________ | | | | | | | | No action at the | | | | diverting user (see | | | | note 2) | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Subscription option is | No | CFU | | provided for \"served | | | | user receives reminder | _ | CFB | | indication on outgoing | ___________\ | | | communication that CDIV | ____________ | CFNR | | is currently | | | | activated\". | Yes | CFNRc | | | | | | | | CFNL | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Total number of all | Maximum number of | CFU\ | | diversions for each | diverted connections\ | CFB\ | | communication. | (upper limit is based | CFNR | | | on operator policy) | | | | | CFNRc\ | | | | CFNL\ | | | | CD | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | AS behaviour when the | Reject the | CFU\ | | maximum number of | communication (default) | CFB\ | | diversions for a | | CFNR | | communication is | _ | | | reached. | ___________\ | CFNRc\ | | |_ ___________ | CFNL\ | | | | CD | | | Deliver the | | | | communication to the | | | | latest diverting party | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | CDIV Indication Timer. | Timer duration is a | CFU\ | | | service provider option | CFB\ | | | | CFNR | | | | | | | | CFNRc\ | | | | CFNL\ | | | | CD | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Communication | Timer default duration | CFNR | | forwarding on no reply | is a service provider | | | timer. | option (NOTE 3) | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: This applies to | | | | the retention of the | | | | communication at | | | | invocation of | | | | communication | | | | diverting. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: This applies to | | | | the clearing | | | | communication option on | | | | invocation of | | | | communication | | | | diverting. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: As a network | | | | provider option, it | | | | shall be possible to | | | | change the timer | | | | duration by the served | | | | user. | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 4.3.2 Requirements on the originating network side
No specific requirements are needed in the network.
### 4.3.3 Requirements in the network
No specific requirements are needed in the network.
Based on the Initial Filter Criteria (IFC) Rules, indicating that the served
user is subscribed to the CDIV supplementary services, the communication is
forwarded to an AS.
NOTE: An example of the use of IFC is shown in annex B.
## 4.4 Coding requirements
### 4.4.0 General
3GPP TS 24.229 [2] defines the messages and parameters for this supplementary
service. The following messages and parameters are used to support the
Communication diversion service due to fulfil the requirements.
### 4.4.1 SIP-Messages
#### 4.4.1.1 SIP messages for redirection
Table 4.4.1.1 shows the SIP messages that are used due to the coding rules in
3GPP TS 24.229 [2].
Table 4.4.1.1: SIP Header information for redirection
+---------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+ | SIP Message | Reference | SIP Header | +---------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+ | INVITE | [3] | History-Info header | | | | | | | [8] | Privacy header | | | | | | | [14] | cause-param URI parameter | | | | | | | [20] | \"gr\" URI parameter | +---------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+ | 180 (Ringing) | [3] | History-Info header | | | | | | | [8] | Privacy header | | | | | | | [14] | cause-param URI parameter | | | | | | | [20] | \"gr\" URI parameter in | | | | the Contact | +---------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+ | 181 (Call Is Being | [3] | History-Info header | | Forwarded) | | | | | [8] | Privacy header | | | | | | | [14] | cause-param URI parameter | | | | | | | [20] | \"gr\" URI parameter in | | | | the Contact | +---------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+ | 200 (OK) response | [3] | History-Info header | | | | | | | [8] | Privacy header | | | | | | | [14] | cause-param URI parameter | | | | | | | [20] | \"gr\" URI parameter in | | | | the Contact | +---------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+ | 302 (Moved Temporarily)\ | [2] | Contact header | | (see note) | | | | | [14] | cause-param URI parameter | +---------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+ | NOTE: The 302 (Moved | | | | Temporarily) response is | | | | in the present document | | | | only used for the CD | | | | services. | | | +---------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+
More information on the cause-param URI parameter is given in annex C.
An AS that implements the CDIV service shall support the REFER method IETF RFC
3515 [17] and IETF RFC 7647 [29], to be able to handle the interaction with
3GPP TS 24.629 [16].
#### 4.4.1.2 Void
### 4.4.2 Parameters
The Privacy header is described in 3GPP TS 24.229 [2]. The present document
refers for the History-Info header to IETF RFC 7044 [3], for the Privacy
header and P-Asserted-Identity to IETF RFC 3325 [8], for GRUU to IETF RFC 5627
[20] and for the cause-param to IETF RFC 4458 [14].
## 4.5 Signalling requirements
### 4.5.0 General
Configuration of supplementary services by the user should:
\- take place over the Ut interface using XCAP as enabling protocol as
described in 3GPP TS 24.623 [4]; or
\- use SIP based user configuration as described in 3GPP TS 24.238 [22].
NOTE: Other possibilities for user configuration, such as web-based
provisioning or pre-provisioning by the operator are outside the scope of the
present document, but are not precluded.
The enhancements to the XML schema for use over the Ut interface is described
in subclause 4.9.
### 4.5.1 Activation/deactivation
The services CFU, CFB, CFNR, CFNL, CFNRc and CD are individually activated at
provisioning or at the subscriber's request.
The services CFU, CFB, CFNR, CFNL, CFNRc and CD are individually deactivated
at withdrawal or at the subscriber's request.
### 4.5.1a Registration/erasure
For registration of diversion information for the services CFU, CFB, CFNR,
CFNL, CFNRc and CD, the mechanisms specified in subclause 4.5.0 should be
used. The diverted-to party address of the services CFU, CFB, CFNR, CFNL,
CFNRc and CD can individually be registered at the subscriber's request by
using the mechanisms specified in subclause 4.5.0. The registration of any
diverted-to party address that is present in an operator configurable block
list that contains forbidden diverted-to identities shall be rejected.
Emergency service identities are examples of identities that can be part of
the block list.
For erasure of diversion information for the services CFU, CFB, CFNR, CFNL,
CFNRc and CD, the mechanisms specified in subclause 4.5.0 should be used. The
diverted-to party address of the services CFU, CFB, CFNR, CFNL, CFNRc and CD
can individually be erased at the subscriber\'s request by using the
mechanisms specified in subclause 4.5.0.
### 4.5.1b Interrogation
For interrogation of the services CFU, CFB, CFNR, CFNL, CFNRc and CD, the
mechanisms specified in subclause 4.5.0 should be used.
For interrogation of the supported conditions and actions that can be used in
the network the Ut interface should be used.
### 4.5.2 Invocation and operation
#### 4.5.2.1 Actions at the originating UA
A UE supporting CDIV services shall support origination of requests in the IM
CN subsystem (as specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [2]).
When communication diversion has occurred on the served user side and the
subscription option \"_Originating_ user receives notification that his
communication has been diverted (forwarded or deflected)\" is set to \"yes\",
the originating UA may receive a 181 (Call Is Being Forwarded) response
according to the procedures described in 3GPP TS 24.229 [2].
NOTE 1: The Information given by the History-Info header field could be
displayed by the UA if it is a UE.
NOTE 2: The originating UE will find the diverted-to URI in the last hi-entry
of the History-Info header field containing a hi-target-param \"mp\" and a
cause-param as specified in IETF RFC 4458 [14]. The originating UE will find
the diverting user URI in the hi-entry having a hi-index that match the value
of the \"mp\" parameter previously identified. If the \"mp\" header field
parameter is not present in the hi-entries within the History-Info header
field, the information of the diverted-to URI will be found in the last hi-
entry containing a cause-param as specified in IETF RFC 4458 [14] and the
diverting user URI in the previous hi-entry.
#### 4.5.2.2 Void
#### 4.5.2.3 Void
#### 4.5.2.4 Void
#### 4.5.2.5 Void
#### 4.5.2.6 Actions at the AS of the diverting User
##### 4.5.2.6.0 General
If the session is subject to diversion the AS of the diverting user:
\- if modification of the To header is required as specified in the procedures
of this subclause, shall operate as an AS providing 3^rd^ party call control,
and specifically as a routeing B2BUA, as specified in subclause 5.7.5 of 3GPP
TS 24.229 [2];
\- otherwise, shall operate as either an AS acting as a SIP proxy as specified
in subclause 5.7.4 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [2] or an AS providing 3rd party call
control, and specifically as a routeing B2BUA, as specified in subclause 5.7.5
of 3GPP TS 24.229 [2].
NOTE: For the case when the session is not subject to diversion and CDIV,
according the requirements in this document, is the only service being applied
by the AS, then the AS only needs to act as a SIP proxy. If additional
services are applied, then the AS might need to act as a routeing B2BUA.
The AS shall based on local policy on how to handle PSAP callbacks suppress
diversion when the received initial INVITE request towards the served user is
identified as a PSAP callback.
The mechanism to identify an initial INVITE request as a PSAP callback depends
on local policy and can be based on the PSAP callback indicator specified in
IETF RFC 7090 [28].
The AS may initiate announcements towards the calling user in accordance with
3GPP TS 24.628 [11].
##### 4.5.2.6.1 Checking of the diversion limits
When receiving an initial INVITE request and the AS determines that the AS
shall divert a communication the AS shall check if diverting the communication
exceeds the number of diversions allowed within the network. The AS shall
calculate the number of diversions by examination of the History-Info header;
\- using the entries including a cause-param URI parameter with cause values
specified in subclause 4.5.2.6.2.2; or
\- examine the entries in the Index entries parameter,
to see if another diversion is allowed due to network provider allowed [
]{.underline} limit of diversions
If the number of diversions exceeds the given limit then:
\- if the diverted-to destination is known to be a non-retargeting destination
(e.g. Voicemail), then it is based on operator policy to allow the
communication diversion to be executed;
\- if the network option \"AS behaviour when the maximum number of diversions
for a communication is reached\" is set to \"Reject the communication\", then
the AS shall send one of the following responses to the originating user:
a) if communication diversion forwarding busy a 486 (Busy Here);
b) if communication forwarding no reply, a 480 (Temporarily Unavailable);
c) if communication forwarding unconditional a 480 (Temporarily Unavailable);
d) if communication deflection, a 480 (Temporarily Unavailable);
e) if communication forwarding not logged in, a 480 (Temporarily Unavailable);
or
f) if communication forwarding not reachable, a 480 (Temporarily Unavailable);
and
include in the response a Warning header field indicating that the
communication is released due to the extension of diversion hops (e.g. \"Too
many diversions appeared\"); and
\- if the network option \"AS behaviour when the maximum number of diversions
for a communication is reached\" is set to \"Deliver the communication to the
latest diverting party\", then the communication shall be delivered to the
latest diverting party.
##### 4.5.2.6.2 Setting of the diversion parameters by the AS
###### 4.5.2.6.2.1 Overview
After checking the limit of diversions the following sets the retargeted
initial INVITE request according to the procedures in subclause 4.5.2.6.2.
###### 4.5.2.6.2.2 Diversion where served user is not last in received
History-Info header
If an AS determines that the AS shall divert a communication and if any of the
following conditions apply for the received initial INVITE request:
\- no History-Info header received; or
\- a History-Info header is received in which the last history-info entry
contains no hi-targeted-to-uri element for the served user.
The AS shall set the following information in the retargeted initial INVITE
request:
\- the diverting parties address;
\- the diverted-to party address;
\- diversion information.
The AS shall include or modify the following header fields with the specified
values:
**a) The Request URI** \- set to the SIP URI where the communication is to be
diverted to (see \ element in subclause 4.9.1.4). In advance of this,
if the \ element contains a tel URI, the AS shall convert the tel URI
into a SIP URI as specified in RFC 3261 [6], and include a user parameter set
to \"phone\".
The AS shall set in the SIP URI the cause-param parameter (redirecting reason
and redirecting indicator) also included in the History-Info header field
according to the diversion conditions. The mapping between the diversion
conditions and the coding of the cause-param parameter is as follows:
\- if communication forwarding busy, the cause value \"486\" as defined by RFC
4458 [14];
\- if communication forwarding no reply, the cause value \"408\" as defined by
RFC 4458 [14];
\- if communication forwarding unconditional, the cause value \"302 as defined
by RFC 4458 [14];
\- if communication deflection (Immediate Response), the cause value \"480\"
as defined by RFC 4458 [14];
\- if communication forwarding not logged in, the cause value \"404\" as
defined by RFC 4458 [14];
\- if communication deflection during alerting, the cause value \"487\" as
defined by RFC 4458 [14]; and
\- if communication forwarding on subscriber not reachable, the cause value
\"503\" as defined by RFC 4458 [14];
**b) The History-Info header field** \- two hist-info entries that shall be
generated.
1) The first entry includes the hi-targeted-to-uri of the served user. The
\"rn\" and \"npdi\" tel URI parameters defined by IETF RFC 4694 [30] should be
removed from the hi-targeted-to-uri of the served user before creating the
first entry.
The AS shall include the privacy header \"history\" within the hi-targeted-to-
uri in the escaped form, if:
\- the served user wishes privacy (e.g. the served user is subscribed to the
OIR Service); or
\- the served user has the subscription option \"Served user allows the
presentation of his/her URI to diverted‑to user\" set to \"no\".
Otherwise, if the first entry contains the \"gr\" parameter and the
subscription option \"Served user allows the presentation of his/her URI to
_diverted‑to_ user\" is set to \"not-reveal-as-GRUU\", then the AS shall
change the first entry as follows:
\- replace the first entry with the public user identity of the served user.
If the diversion is based on a SIP response from the served user, a Reason
header in escaped form shall be included in accordance with IETF RFC 7044 [3].
The \"index\" header field parameter shall be set by using a new level \"1\"
according to the rules specified in subclause 10.3 \"Indexing in the History-
Info Header Field\" of IETF RFC 7044 [3].
When a Reason header field or a Privacy header field needs to be included in
the hi-targeted-to-uri, the hi-targeted-to-uri shall be a SIP URI.
2) The second entry includes the new Request URI as described under bullet a)
as hi-targeted-to-uri.
The \"index\" header field parameter shall be set by using a new level \"1\"
according to the rules specified in subclause 10.3 \"Indexing in the History-
Info Header Field\" of IETF RFC 7044 [3].
Add a hi-target-param \"mp\" set to value of the hi-index in the hi-entry with
an hi-targeted-to-uri that reflects the Request-URI that was retargeted as
described in IETF RFC 7044 [3].
NOTE: In accordance with RFC 4458 [14], hi-targeted-to-uri will contain a
cause-param in non-escaped format.
**c) The To header field** :
If the served user does not want to reveal its identity to the diverted-to
party, then the AS shall change the To header field to the URI where the
communication is diverted to. The served user does not want to reveal its
identity when one of the following conditions holds true:
\- if the served user wishes privacy (e.g. the served user is subscribed to
the OIR Service); or
\- if the served user has the subscription option \"Served user allows the
presentation of his/her URI to diverted‑to user\" set to \"no\".
Otherwise, if the To header contains the \"gr\" parameter and the served user
has the subscription option \"Served user allows the presentation of his/her
URI to diverted‑to user\" set to \"not-reveal-as-GRUU\", then the AS shall
change the To header field to a public user identity of the served user.
In all other cases the AS shall not change the To header.
###### 4.5.2.6.2.3 Diversion with served user last in received History-Info
header
If an AS determines that the communication shall be diverted the AS shall
apply the procedure in the present subclause if the received initial INVITE
request includes a History-Info header, which in the last history-info entry
includes a hi-targeted-to-uri with an entry for the served user, encoded as in
subclause 4.5.2.6.2.2. In this case the AS shall add a new history-info entry
to the History-Info header field according to the rules defined in IETF RFC
7044 [3]. The following information is added to the retargeted initial INVITE
request:
\- the diverted-to party address;
\- diversion information.
The AS shall add or modify the following header fields with the specified
values:
**a) Request URI** \- set to the SIP URI where the communication is to be
diverted to (see \ element in subclause 4.9.1.4). In advance of this,
if the \ element contains a tel URI, the AS shall convert the tel URI
into a SIP URI as specified in RFC 3261 [6], and include a user parameter set
to \"phone\".
The AS shall add the cause-param as defined by RFC 4458[14] to the request
URI. The mapping between the diversion conditions and the coding of the cause-
param parameter shall be as defined under bullet a) in sublause 4.5.2.6.2.2.
**b) History-Info header field** shall be modified in accordance with IETF RFC
7044 [3]. The history entry corresponding to previous request URI can be
modified. One history entry is added.
1) The existing history entry corresponding to the previous request URI shall
be treated as follows: if the Privacy header field does not contain
\"history\", the privacy header \"history\" in escaped format shall be added
or modified within the hi-targeted-to-uri, if:
\- the served user wishes privacy (e.g. the served user is subscribed to the
OIR Service); or
\- the served user has the subscription option \"Served user allows the
presentation of his/her URI to diverted‑to user\" set to \"no\".
If the history entry representing the served user contains the \"gr\"
parameter and the subscription option \"Served user allows the presentation of
his/her URI to _diverted‑to_ user\" set to \"not-reveal-as-GRUU\", the AS
shall change the history entry to a public user identity of the served user.
If the diversion is based on a SIP response from the served user, a Reason
header in escaped form shall be included in the hi-targeted-to-uri in
accordance with IETF RFC 7044 [3].
When a Reason header field or a Privacy header field needs to be included in
the existing hi-targeted-to-uri that is a tel URI, the hi-targeted-to-uri
shall be first converted to a SIP URI.
2) A history entry shall be added containing the new Request URI as described
under bullet a) as hi-targeted-to-uri.
The \"index\" header field parameter shall be set by using a new level \"1\"
according to the rules specified in subclause 10.3 \"Indexing in the History-
Info header field\" of IETF RFC 7044 [3].
Add a hi-target-param \"mp\" set to value of the hi-index in the hi-entry with
an hi-targeted-to-uri that reflects the Request-URI that was retargeted as
described in IETF RFC 7044 [3].
NOTE: In accordance with RFC 4458 [14], hi-targeted-to-uri will contain a
cause-param in non-escaped format.
**c) To header** :
If the served user does not want to reveal its identity to the diverted-to
party, then the To header shall be changed to the URI where the communication
is diverted to. The served user does not want to reveal its identity when one
of the following conditions holds true:
\- if the served user wishes privacy (e.g. the served user is subscribed to
the OIR Service); or
\- if the served user has the subscription option \"Served user allows the
presentation of his/her URI to diverted‑to user\" set to \"no\".
Otherwise, if the To header contains the \"gr\" parameter and the served user
has the subscription option \"Served user allows the presentation of his/her
URI to _diverted‑to_ user\" set to \"not-reveal-as-GRUU\", then the To header
shall be changed to a public user identity of the served user.
In all other cases the To header shall not be changed.
###### 4.5.2.6.2.4 Overview of the operation
Figure 4.5.2.6.2.4 shows the example of a communication path for multiple
diversions.
Figure 4.5.2.6.2.4: Originally A calls B, information transferred in the
initial INVITE request
Table 4.5.2.6.2.4 shows which parameters and header fields that are added or
modified in a diversion AS.
Table 4.5.2.6.2.4: Parameter information for multiple redirections
| HOP 1 | HOP 2 | HOP 3 | HOP 4 | HOP 5 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Number Information: P-Asserted-Identity Request URI | A B | A C | A D | A E | A F |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
hi-entry |  | B | C | B | C | D | B, C | D | E | B, C, D | E | F  
Information added: hi-targeted-to-uri (NOTE 4) Reason header (NOTE 2) cause-param (NOTE 3) Privacy Hi-index (NOTE 1) hi-target-param "mp" |  | B V W index 1 | C U index 2 index 1 | 
> No changes
| V W | D U index 3 index 2 | 
> No changes
| V W | E U index 4 index 3 | 
> No changes
| V W | F U index 5 index 4  
U = Value for the cause-param parameter as specified in 4.5.2.6.2.2 and 4.5.2.6.2.3 V = Value in accordance with the rules in RFC 7044 [3]. W = privacy value (history) or (none) or no entry. NOTE 1: The hi-index field shall be set by using a new level "1" according to the rules specified in subclause 10.3 of RFC 7044 [3]. NOTE 2: The encoding of the reason header and the contained protocol-cause parameter are specified in RFC 3326 [24]. It is embedded in the hi-targeted-to-uri of the history info header in escaped format according to the rules in RFC 7044 [3]. NOTE 3: The cause-param is specified in RFC 4458 [14]. It is embedded in the hi-targeted-to-uri of the history info header in non-escaped format according to the rules in RFC 4458 [14]. NOTE 4: If the received hi-targeted-to-uri is a tel URI, it is converted to a SIP URI if the Reason or the Privacy header field has to be embedded |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
##### 4.5.2.6.3 Diversion procedures at the diverting AS
The diverting AS shall continue the communication depending on the service
that is causing the diversion:
1) Communication Forwarding Unconditional or Communication Forwarding Busy
under network determined user busy or Communication forwarding on Not Logged
in
The AS shall continue in the following manner:
\- If the notification procedure of the originating user is supported then the
originating user shall be notified as described in the subclause 4.5.2.6.4.
\- An initial INVITE request containing the diverted-to URI shall be sent to
the (outgoing) S-CSCF. The initial INVITE request shall include the parameter
information as shown in table 4.5.2.6.2.4 and described in subclause
4.5.2.6.2.
\- If the served user has subscribed to the indication of communication
diversion to the diverting user, then the served user will be notified of the
communication diversion as described in subclause 4.5.2.6.5.
2) Communication Forwarding No Reply
After receiving the first 180 (Ringing) response the no reply timer
(definition see subclause 4.8) shall be started. If forking is provided by the
S-CSCF a further received 180 (Ringing) response does not refresh the timer.
When receiving a 480 (Temporarily unavailable) final response including a
Reason header field (see RFC 3326 [24]) with the protocol set to \"Q.850\" and
the cause set to \"19\" the AS shall not refresh the no reply timer.
When receiving any other final response, the no reply timer shall be
terminated.
When the no reply timer defined in subclause 4.8 expires:
\- The dialog(s) to the diverting user shall be terminated e.g. by sending a
CANCEL request or BYE request according to the rules and procedures in IETF
RFC 3261 [6], including a Reason header field (see RFC 3326 [24]) with the
protocol set to \"SIP\" and the cause set to \"408\".
\- If the notification procedure of the originating user is supported then the
originating user shall be notified as described in the subclause 4.5.2.6.4.
\- An initial INVITE request is sent to the (outgoing) S-CSCF towards the
diverted-to user. The initial INVITE request includes the parameter
information as shown in table 4.5.2.6.2.4.
\- If the diverting AS receives a SIP 18x response from the diverted-to user
and the SIP 18x response does not contain a P-Early-Media header field, the
diverting AS shall:
a) when sending the next SIP message towards the calling party on the existing
early dialog, include a P-Early-Media header field with value \"inactive\"; or
b) send a SIP 199 (Early Dialog Terminated) response towards calling party on
the existing early dialog, and forward the SIP 18x response on a new early
dialog.
NOTE: A SIP 199 (Early Dialog Terminated) response can only be sent if the
calling party has indicated support of it.
\- If the served user has subscribed to the indication of communication
diversion to the diverting user, then the served user will be notified of the
communication diversion as described in subclause 4.5.2.6.5.
3) Communication Forwarding No Reply (ringing continues)
After receiving the first 180 (Ringing) response the no reply timer
(definition see subclause 4.8) shall be started. If forking is provided by the
S-CSCF a further received 180 (Ringing) response does not refresh the timer.
When the no reply timer defined in subclause 4.8 expires, an initial INVITE
request is sent to the outgoing S-CSCF towards the diverted to user. The
initial INVITE request includes the parameter information as shown in table
4.5.2.6.2.4.
When the diverting AS receives a provisional response or 200 (OK) response to
initial INVITE request from diverted-to-user based on operator policy, The
dialog(s) to the diverting user shall be terminated e.g. by sending a CANCEL
request or a BYE request according to the rules and procedures in IETF RFC
3261 [6], including a Reason header field (see IETF RFC 3326 [24]) with the
protocol set to \"SIP\" and the cause set to \"408\", and if the notification
procedure of the originating user is supported, the originating user shall be
notified as described in subclause 4.5.2.6.4.
If the served user has subscribed to the indication of communication diversion
to the diverting user, then the served user will be notified of the
communication diversion as described in subclause 4.5.2.6.5.
If diverting user accepts the communication after sending the initial INVITE
request the communication path towards the diverted to user shall be released
according to the rules and procedures in RFC 3261 [6].
4) Communication Forwarding Busy under User Determined User Busy
When the Communication Forwarding Busy under User Determined User Busy is
offered to the served user, the AS shall proceed as follows:
\- The received 486 (Busy Here) shall be acknowledged with an ACK request.
\- If the notification procedures of the originating user are supported then
the originating user shall be notified as described in the subclause
4.5.2.6.4.
\- An initial INVITE request containing the diverted-to URI is sent to the
outgoing S-CSCF. The initial INVITE request includes the parameter information
as shown in table 4.5.2.6.2.4.
If the served user has subscribed to the indication of communication diversion
to the diverting user, then the served user will be notified of the
communication diversion as described in subclause 4.5.2.6.5.
5) Communication Deflection immediate response
The Communication Deflection immediate response is offered to the served user.
A 302 (Moved Temporarily) response is received.
If the notification procedures of the originating user are supported then the
originating user shall be notified as described in subclause 4.5.2.6.4.
An initial INVITE request containing the diverted-to URI is sent to the
outgoing S-CSCF. The initial INVITE request includes the parameter information
as shown in table 4.5.2.6.2.4.
If the served user has subscribed to the indication of communication diversion
to the diverting user, then the served user will be notified of the
communication diversion as described in subclause 4.5.2.6.5.
6) Communication Deflection during alerting
When Communication Deflection during alerting is invoked after the AS receives
a 180 (Ringing) \"Ringing\" response. then:
\- A 302 (Moved Temporarily) response is received; and
\- if the notification procedures of the originating user are supported then
the originating user shall be notified as described in subclause 4.5.2.6.4;
and
\- an initial INVITE request containing the URI received in the Contact header
of the 302 (Moved Temporarily) response as the diverted-to URI shall be sent
as specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [2]. The diverted-to URI could be restricted by
setting the privacy header for the entry of the diverted-to URI to
\"history\"; and
\- the initial INVITE request shall include the parameter information as shown
in table 4.5.2.6.2.4 \"Parameter information for multiple redirection\".
If the served user has subscribed to the indication of communication diversion
to the diverting user, then the served user will be notified of the
communication diversion as described in subclause 4.5.2.6.5.
7) Communication Forwarding on Subscriber Not Reachable
When the AS receives a not reachable indication (see subclause 4.5.2.6.6) on
the initial INVITE request forwarded to the served user, then the following
criteria shall apply before the Communication Forwarding on Subscriber Not
Reachable procedure is executed:
\- the served user has an active forwarding rule containing not-reachable
condition (see subclause 4.9)
The following steps shall be followed to perform Communication Forwarding on
Subscriber Not Reachable:
1) If the notification procedures of the originating user are supported then
the originating user shall be notified as described in the subclause
4.5.2.6.4.
2) An initial INVITE request with the Request-URI set to the diverted-to URI
is sent to the outgoing S-CSCF. The initial INVITE request includes the
parameter information as shown in table 4.5.2.6.2.4.
If the served user has subscribed to the indication of communication diversion
to the diverting user, then the served user will be notified of the
communication diversion as described in subclause 4.5.2.6.5.
##### 4.5.2.6.4 Notification procedures of the originating user (Subscription
Option)
When Communication Diversion occurs and if served user has the subscription
option \"_Originating_ user receives notification that his communication has
been diverted (forwarded or deflected).\" set to \"yes\" then a 181 (Call Is
Being Forwarded) response shall be sent towards the originating user.
The following header fields shall be included or modified with the specified
values:
a) The **P-Asserted-Identity** includes the URI of the diverting user.
b) The **Privacy** header with the value \"id\" shall be included, if:
\- the served user wishes privacy (e.g. the served user is subscribed to the
TIR Service); or
\- the served user has the subscription option \" Served user allows the
presentation of his/her URI to _originating_ user in diversion notification.\"
set to \"no\".
c) The following entries shall be added to the **History-Info** header field:
1) If this is the first diversion then the first entry shall be populated with
the hi-targeted-to-uri of the served user. The Index is set to index = 1
according to the rules specified in IETF RFC 7044 [3].
2) On the history entry that represents the served user:
the privacy header with value \"history\" shall be escaped within the hi-
targeted-to-uri, if:
\- the served user wishes privacy (e.g. the served user is subscribed to the
TIR Service); or
\- the served user has the subscription option \"Served user allows the
presentation of his/her URI to _originating_ user in diversion notification.\"
set to \"no\".
If the history is already in the escaped form with the correct privacy value
no modification is needed.
If the history entry representing the served user contains the \"gr\"
parameter and the served user has the subscription option \"Served user allows
the presentation of his/her URI to _originating_ user in diversion
notification\" set to \"not-reveal-as-GRUU\", it shall be changed to the
public user identity of the diverting user.
In all other cases the history entry representing the served user shall not be
changed.
3) A history entry shall be added according to the rules of subclause
4.5.2.6.2.3 item b.2. In addition, for this entry:
1) if the history entry representing the forwarded to URI contains the \"gr\"
parameter and the served user has the subscription option \"Served user allows
the presentation of diverted to URI to _originating_ user in diversion
notification\" set to \"not-reveal-as-GRUU\", it shall be changed to the
public user identity of the diverted-to user.
2) the privacy header with value \"history\" shall be escaped within the hi-
targeted-to-uri or the hi-targeted-to-uri shall be set to an anonymous value.
Additionally, the AS may initiate an announcement to be included towards the
calling user in order to inform about the diversion. Announcements may be
played according to procedures as are described in 3GPP TS 24.628 [11].
##### 4.5.2.6.5 Indication of communication diversion to the diverting user
(subscription option)
###### 4.5.2.6.5.0 General
If the subscription option \"Served user receives indication that a
communication has been forwarded (indication of communication diversion to the
diverting user)\" has been set to \"yes\", then one or a combination of the
following procedures are possible:
\- When the diverting user is registering to the communication system, the AS
sends a MESSAGE request including the information where his calls are diverted
to if any. As an option; the MESSAGE request may be sent to the user after a
period of time according to the timer value CDIV Indication Timer as defined
in subclause 4.8.3 that can be provided by the user.
\- A diverting user will be informed periodically with a MESSAGE request the
information where the call is diverted to.
NOTE 1: A diverting user could be informed via a Voicemail or Message mail
system in the communication states described above.
\- If the subscription option \"Served user receives reminder indication on
outgoing communication that CDIV is currently activated\" has been set to
\"yes\", then a diverting user will be informed with a MESSAGE request after
the diverting user has initiated a new outgoing communication. The MESSAGE
request includes the information where the call is diverted to.
NOTE 2: A diverting user could be informed via a Voicemail or Message mail
system in the communication states described above.
The description of information text contained in the MESSAGE request is out of
scope of the present document.
###### 4.5.2.6.5.1 Void
###### 4.5.2.6.5.2 Void
##### 4.5.2.6.6 Not reachable indication
It is recommended that the AS interprets the reception of one of the following
response events as not reachable indication:
\- 408 (Request timeout) response;
\- 503 (Service unavailable) response;
\- 500 (Server Internal Error) response;
and no provisional response, different than a 100 (Trying) response, has been
received on the same dialog.
NOTE: There can be other means to discover this condition. These other means
are out of the scope of the present document.
If the 480 (Temporarily unavailable) final response including a Reason header
field (see RFC 3326 [24]) with the protocol set to \"Q.850\" and the cause set
to \"19\" is used as a no reply indication (for CFNR), the AS shall exclude
this specific response from the not reachable condition.
#### 4.5.2.7 Actions at the AS of the diverted-to user
If the session is diverted, the AS of the diverted-to user shall operate
either as an AS acting as a SIP proxy as specified in subclause 5.7.4 of 3GPP
TS 24.229 [2] or an AS providing 3rd party call control, and specifically as a
routeing B2BUA, as specified in subclause 5.7.5 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [2].
NOTE 1: For the case when the session is not subject to diversion and CDIV,
according the requirements in this document, is the only service being applied
by the AS, then the AS only needs to act as a SIP proxy. If additional
services are applied, then the AS might need to act as a routeing B2BUA.
The AS shall store the History-Info header of an incoming initial INVITE
request.
If a 180 (Ringing), 181 (Call Is Being Forwarded) or 200 (OK) response does
not contain a History-Info header field, the AS shall include the stored
History-Info header field. If diverted-to user is subscribed to the TIR
service, in the Privacy header field of all responses the priv-value of the
last entry in the History-Info header field shall be set to \"history\".
NOTE 2: A response including no History-Info header field is coming from an
untrusted entity or the History-Info header field is not included due to the
privacy status within the SIP request.
#### 4.5.2.8 Void
#### 4.5.2.9 Void
#### 4.5.2.10 Void
#### 4.5.2.11 Void
#### 4.5.2.12 Void
#### 4.5.2.13 Void
#### 4.5.2.14 Void
#### 4.5.2.15 Actions at the diverted to UA
A UE supporting CDIV services shall support termination of requests in the IM
CN subsystem (as specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [2]).
NOTE 1: The Information given by the History-Info header field could be
displayed by the UA if it is a UE.
NOTE 2: The terminating UE will find the diverting URI in the hi-entry of the
History-Info header field whose hi-index matches the value of the hi-target-
param \"mp\" in the last hi-entry containing a hi-target-param \"mp\" and a
cause-param as specified in IETF RFC 4458 [14]. If the \"mp\" header field
parameter is not present in the hi-entries within the History-Info header
field, the information of the diverting user URI will be found in the hi-entry
that precede the hi-entry containing a cause-param as specified in IETF RFC
4458 [14].
#### 4.5.2.16 Actions at the diverting UA
A UE supporting CDIV services (e.g. CFU, CFB, CFNR, CD, CFNRc and CFNL) shall
support termination of requests in the IM CN subsystem (as specified in 3GPP
TS 24.229 [2]). If the UE is intended to support the user subscription option
of \"indication of communication diversion to the diverting user\", this
support shall include the receipt of MESSAGE requests (as specified in 3GPP TS
24.229 [2]).
To invoke Communication Deflection, the UA shall send a 302 (Moved
Temporarily) response to the initial INVITE request including a Contact header
field with the address where the communication is diverted to.
## 4.6 Interaction with other services
### 4.6.1 Communication Hold (HOLD)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.2 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)
When a communication has been diverted, in order to provide the originating
user with information about the diverted-to identity, the diverting AS shall
include a SIP or TEL URI of the diverted-to user into a History-Info header
field in a 181 (Call Is Being Forwarded) response message and send it to the
originating AS, unless the diverting user has selected the option to suppress
the notification of diversion. As it is not known what the diverted-to user\'s
TIR settings are, a privacy header field with a priv-value set to \"history\"
needs to be included in escaped form in the hi-entry representing the
diverted-to user; or the URI representing the diverted-to user may be set to
an anonymous value.
A P-Asserted-Identity and History-Info header field received in the diverting
AS is passed unmodified to the originating entity.
NOTE: The originating P-CSCF is responsible for the interpretation of the
privacy header field as described in 3GPP TS 24.229 [2].
### 4.6.3 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
A P-Asserted-Identity and History-Info header field received in the diverting
AS is passed unmodified to the originating entity. If TIR applies for the
served user, the diverting AS shall add a Privacy header field set to \"id\"
and if a Privacy header field set to \"none\" is received the diverting AS
shall remove it. If a Privacy header field set to \"id\" is received from the
diverted-to user, the diverting AS shall pass it unchanged to the originating
user.
NOTE: The originating P-CSCF is responsible of the interpretation of the
privacy header field as described in 3GPP TS 24.229 [2].
If the served (diverting) user selects the option that the originating user is
notified, but without the diverted-to SIP or TEL URI, then the AS shall send a
181 (Call is Being Forwarded) response and either:
\- escape a Privacy header field with a priv-value set to \"history\" in the
hi-entry representing the diverted-to user; or
\- anonymize the hi-entry representing the diverted-to user.
### 4.6.4 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
When a communication has been diverted and the diverted-to user has been
provided with the OIP service, normal procedures apply in the IMS network
serving the diverted-to user. The diverting AS shall pass all received privacy
headers unmodified. The diverting AS shall add the identity of the diverting
user in the History-Info header field with an embedded Privacy header
reflecting the served user\'s privacy settings.
### 4.6.5 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
When the OIR service has been invoked, normal procedures apply in the IMS
network serving the diverted-to user. The diverting AS shall pass all received
privacy headers unmodified. The diverting AS shall add the identity of the
diverting user in the History-Info header field with an embedded Privacy
header reflecting the served user\'s privacy settings.
NOTE: The P-CSCF executes the related privacy procedures as described in 3GPP
TS 24.229 [2].
### 4.6.6 Conference calling (CONF)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.7 Communication Diversion Services (CDIV)
CFU, CFNL, and CFB when NDUB is used are all determined immediately when an
initial INVITE request is received, and take precedence over CDIV services
that are based on a response (CD, CFNRc, CFNR, and CFB when UDUB is used). CFU
take precedence over all other CDIV services and the CDIV AS shall evaluate
the rule associated with CFU before CFNL and CFB when NDUB is used. As CFNL
and CFB cannot occur simultaneously there is no interaction. For CDIV services
that are based on a response, the response received first will invoke the
associated CDIV service.
For the indication of communication diversion to the diverting user service,
the provision and activation of at least one redirection service is a pre-
requirement to provision and activate the indication of communication
diversion to the diverting user service
### 4.6.8 Malicious Communication Identification (MCID)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.9 Anonymous Communication Rejection and Communication Barring (ACR/CB)
If the user where the communication is forwarded to has subscribed to a call
barring service \"inhibition of incoming forwarded communication\" the
procedures described in 3GPP TS 24.611 [9] shall take precedence.
If the OCB service has already been activated, the CDIV AS shall reject a
request to activate any CDIV service if the forwarding party\'s communication
to the diverted-to party would be barred by the OCB service.
If the CDIV service was activated before the activation of the OCB service,
the OCB service can still be activated. When the two services have already
been activated, the CDIV AS shall not invoke the CDIV service if the
forwarding party\'s communication to the diverted-to party would be barred by
the OCB service at the time of the invocation attempt of the CDIV service.
### 4.6.10 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
#### 4.6.10.1 Actions at the diverting AS
##### 4.6.10.1.1 Determine whether ECT is applied to the diverted
communication
See 3GPP TS 24.629 [16] on the criteria that determine that a REFER request is
to be treated as a request for transfer of an existing communication.
##### 4.6.10.1.2 Handling of transfer requests
When a REFER request is received towards the originating user in the context
of a call transfer scenario (see subclause 4.6.10.1.1), the diverting AS shall
perform the following steps:
1) Create a new CDIV Session Identifier URI addressed to this AS. The URI
shall be created in such a way that a new dialog set up towards this URI can
be easily correlated with the current REFER dialog.
2) The AS stores the value of the Refer-To header field (transfer target) from
the REFER request and links it to the CDIV Session Identifier URI.
3) The AS Replaces the Refer-To header field with the CDIV Session Identifier
URI. (This ensures that the diverting AS remains in the loop when the
transferee sets up the communication with the transfer target.).
4) The AS forwards the REFER request to the transferee using basic
communication procedures 3GPP TS 24.229 [2].
A REFER request received towards the diverted-to user is forwarded using
normal procedures.
##### 4.6.10.1.3 Actions when CDIV is invoked again by the transferred
communication
When an initial INVITE request is received targeted at the CDIV Session
Identifier URI created earlier when transfer of the diverted ongoing
communication was requested, the AS shall perform the following actions:
1) The AS replaces the request URI with the stored Refer-To header field value
linked to the specific CDIV Session Identifier URI.
NOTE: If needed the AS can generate charging events to charge for the extra
leg.
2) Void.
3) The AS forwards the initial INVITE request towards the transfer target
using basic communication procedures 3GPP TS 24.229 [2].
### 4.6.11 Communication Waiting (CW)
**Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU):** CW has no impact on CFU. The
communication will be forwarded without regard to the terminating party\'s
state. The CFU service can be activated while a call is waiting without
changing the state of the waiting call. A forwarded communication can result
in the communication waiting service.
**Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB):** No impact, i.e. neither service
affects the operation of the other service. A forwarded communication can
result in the communication waiting service.
NOTE 1: If the terminating party is NDUB, the CW service will not be invoked,
and the CFB service is invoked if it was activated.
**Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR):** If the terminating party has
activated the CFNR service, then the CW AS still shall offer a waiting
communication. If the CFNR timer expires before an answer is received, then
the CFNR service shall be invoked and the CDIV AS shall forward the
communication. The CDIV AS cancels the communitication to the served user. A
forwarded communication can result in the communication waiting service.
**Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in (CFNL):** No impact, i.e. neither
service affects the operation of the other service.
NOTE 2: If a party with an active communication waiting logs out, all active
and offered communications would be released.
**Communication Deflection (CD):** When receiving the communication waiting
indication, terminating party can invoke the CD service. A deflected
communication can result in the communication waiting service.
**Communication Forwarding on Subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc):** No impact,
i.e. neither service affects the operation of the other service.
### 4.6.12 Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
The CC AS shall not divert a CC recall. It shall provide the CC recall to the
original originating party.
### 4.6.13 Advice Of Charge (AOC)
No impact, i.e. neither service affects the operation of the other service.
### 4.6.14 Enhanced Calling Name (eCNAM)
The AS performing the CDIV service shall always send the original INVITE
message without eCNAM information when communications diversion occurs. The
enhanced CNAM service is described in 3GPP TS 24.196 [31].
### 4.6.15 Multi-Device (MuD)
No impact.
### 4.6.16 Multi-Identity (MiD)
No impact.
## 4.7 Interworking with other networks
### 4.7.1 Void
### 4.7.2 Void
### 4.7.3 Void
## 4.8 Parameter values (timers)
### 4.8.1 No reply timer
**No reply timer: t** imer default duration shall be a service provider
option. Based on a service provider option the user may set this timer to a
value within the range specified in subclause 4.9.2.
### 4.8.2 Void
### 4.8.3 CDIV Indication Timer
CDIV Indication Timer: 60 sec to 00 sec.
The timer is started when the diverting user is registering to the
communication system. Based on operator policy the user has the possibility to
choose a certain timer value within the defined range.
## 4.9 Service Configuration for redirection services
### 4.9.1 Structure of the XML Document
#### 4.9.1.0 General
Communication Diversion documents are subtrees of the _simservs_ document
specified in 3GPP TS 24.623 [4]. As such, Communication Diversion documents
use the XCAP application usage in 3GPP TS 24.623 [4].
In addition to the considerations and constraints defined by the _simservs_
document 3GPP TS 24.623 [4], we define the additional constraints and
considerations for the Communication Diversion subtree:
**XML schema:** Implementations in compliance with the present document shall
implement the XML schema that minimally includes the XML Schema defined in
subclause 4.9.2 and the _simservs_ XML schema specified in 3GPP TS 24.623 [4].
**Data semantics:** The semantics of the communication diversion XML
configuration document is specified in subclause 4.9.1.
An instance of the supplementary services configuration containing a
communication diversion configuration document.
\
\
\
_rule set_
\
\
The communication diversion service contains a rule set that specifies how the
communication diversion service shall react to external stimuli.
#### 4.9.1.1 Communication Diversion Element
The communication diversion configuration contains a noReplyTimer element, a
rule set, or a noReplyTimer element followed by a rule set.
The rule set reuses the syntax as specified by the common policy draft (see
RFC 4745 [18]).
\
\_NoReplyTimerValue_ \
\
_rule1_
_rule2_
\
\
In general, the following procedure applies:
When the service processes a set of rules it shall start executing the first
rule. If:
\- the rule has no \ element;
\- the rule has an empty \ element; or
\- conditions are present and they all evaluate to true;
then the rule matches and the specified action shall be executed.
When the rule does not match the following rule shall be selected and the same
procedure repeated, until a matching rule is found or the set of remaining
rules is empty.
However not all rules can be matched at the same moment in the call. Some
conditions imply that rules that carry them are checked at specific events in
the call, for example the no-answer condition only holds when the called party
does not answer after a while. In this case the same procedure shall apply as
above with the modification that the set of rules to process contains only the
rules applicable for that specific network event.
In subclause 4.9.1.3 all allowed conditions are specified, normally rules are
evaluated at communication setup time, for conditions where this is not the
case this is explicitly indicated.
The shown \"active\" attribute is inherited from the simservType from 3GPP TS
24.623 [4], its meaning is also specified in 3GPP TS 24.623 [4].
#### 4.9.1.1A NoReplyTimer
NoReplyTimer: An optional element that covers the time to elapse until the
communication diversion shall perform, if the served user does not answer when
alerted.
#### 4.9.1.2 Communication Diversion Rules
The Communication Diversion service is configured with an ordered set of
forwarding rules. The XML Schema reuses the rule syntax as specified by the
common policy draft (see IETF RFC 4745 [18]). The rules take the following
form:
\
\
_condition1_
_condition2_
\
\
\
\
_targetAddress1_
\
\true\
\
\
\
To give more guidance, an example of such a rule is shown below:
\
\
\
\audio\
\
\id=serveduser\@domain\
\
\
\
\
\
_targetAddress1_
\
\true\
\
\
\
When the service processes a set of rules it shall start executing the first
rule. If:
\- the rule has no \ element;
\- the rule has an empty \ element; or
\- conditions are present and they all evaluate to true;
then the rule matches and the specified action is executed. When a rule
matches remaining rules in the rule set shall be discarded. Applied to the
fragment above this means that only if the expression (_condition1_ AND
_condition2_) evaluates to true that then the _rule66_ matches and the
forward-to action is executed.
When the rule does not match the following rule shall be selected and the same
procedure repeated, until a matching rule is found or the set of remaining
rules is empty.
The \"id\" attribute value of a rule shall uniquely identify the rule within a
rule set. This can be used in XCAP usage to address one specific rule.
#### 4.9.1.3 Communication Diversion Rule Conditions
The following conditions are allowed by the XML Schema for the communication
diversion service:
**busy** : This condition evaluates to true when the called user is busy. In
all other cases the condition evaluates to false. Rules with this condition
are evaluated when a busy indication is received. Receipt of a SIP 486 (Busy
Here) response is a busy indication.
**not-registered** : This condition evaluates to true when the called user is
not registered. In all other cases the condition evaluates to false.
**presence-status** : This condition evaluates to true when the called user\'s
current presence activity status is equal to the value set for this condition.
In all other cases the condition evaluates to false.
**cp:identity** : This condition evaluates to true when the _calling_ user\'s
identity matches with the value of the identity element. The interpretation of
all the elements of this condition is described in OMA-TS-XDM-Core-V1_1 [21].
In all other cases the condition evaluates to false. The Identity shall be
matched against the value taken from the P-Asserted-Identity header field, and
in addition as an option matched against the From header field and/or the
Referred-By header field, unless both the \ element value and the
Contact header field value contain a \"gr\" parameter, then the \
element value shall be matched against the value taken from the Contact header
field.
**anonymous:** This condition evaluates to true when the P-Asserted-Identity
of the calling user is not provided or privacy restricted.
**cp:sphere** : Not applicable in the context of the Communication Diversion
service.
**cp:validity** : Specifies a period. The condition evaluates to true when the
current time is within the validity period expressed by the value of this
condition. In all other cases the condition evaluates to false.
**media** : When the incoming call request for certain media, the forwarding
rule can decide to forward the call for this specific media. This condition
evaluates to true when the value of this condition matches the media field in
one of the \"m=\" lines in the SDP (IETF RFC 4566 [5]) offered in an initial
INVITE request (IETF RFC 3261 [6]).
**no-answer** : This condition evaluates to true when the called user does not
answer. In all other cases the condition evaluates to false. Rules with this
condition are evaluated when a no-answer timeout is detected or when a no
answer indication is received.
**rule-deactivated** : This condition always evaluates to false. This can be
used to deactivate a rule, without loosing information. By removing this
condition, the rule can be activated again.
**ocp:external-list** : This condition evaluates to true when the calling
users identity is contained in an external resource list to which the value of
external-list refers. The exact interpretation of this element is specified in
OMA-TS-XDM-Core-V1_1 [21].
**ocp:other-identity** : Not applicable in the context of communication
diversion service.
**not-reachable:** This condition evaluates to true when there is a signalling
channel outage during session setup to the served user\'s UE. Receipt of a 500
(Server Internal Error) response is an indication that the served user\'s UE
is unreachable. In all other cases this condition evaluates to false.
**NOTE 1: As described in** IETF **RFC 4745 [18] the case of unconditional**
evaluates to be true in all cases where all other reasons are not applicable.
A communication diversion is performed as soon as the served user is the
called user. The indication of unconditional is the absence of any reason
element in the ss:condition element.
NOTE 2: The UE being not reachable does not include being not registered.
The condition elements that are not taken from the common policy schema (see
IETF RFC 4745 [18]) or oma common policy schema (see OMA-TS-XDM-Core-V1_1
[21]) are defined in the simservs document schema specified in 3GPP TS 24.623
[4].
Information of which of the above mentioned conditions the user is allowed to
use can be obtained from the network by using the schema defined in subclause
4.9.3.
The \"serv-cap-media\" element lists the elements that can be used in the
\"media\" rule condition.
#### 4.9.1.4 Communication Diversion Rule Actions
The action supported by the CDIV service is forwarding of calls. For this the
forward-to action has been defined. The forward-to action takes the following
elements:
**target** : Specifies the address of the forwarding rule. It should be a SIP
URI (IETF RFC 3261 [6]) or tel URI (IETF RFC 3966 [7]). If the address is a
tel URI and it is not an international number in E.164 format, the \"phone-
context\" tel URI parameter is set in accordance with subclause 7.2A.10 of
3GPP TS 24.229 [2]. An empty target element indicates that the CDIV service is
not registered but is provisioned for the user.
**notify-caller** : An optional element that can be used to disable the
default behaviour that the caller is notified that the call is being
forwarded. (see subscription option \"_Originating_ user receives notification
that his communication has been diverted (forwarded or deflected)\" in table
4.3.1.1).
**reveal-served-user-identity-to-caller** : An optional element that can be
used to disable the default behaviour that the caller, when notified that the
call is being forwarded, receives the _diverting_ party\'s identity
information. (see subscription option \"Served user allows the presentation of
his/her URI to _originating_ user in diversion notification\" in table
4.3.1.1).
**reveal-identity-to-caller** : An optional element that can be used to
disable the default behaviour that the caller, when notified that the call is
being forwarded, receives some diverted-to party\'s identity information. (see
subscription option \"Served user allows the presentation of diverted to URI
to _originating_ user in diversion notification\" in table 4.3.1.1).
**notify-served-user** : An optional element that can be used to enable that
the served user is indicated that calls are being forwarded. Default this is
switched off. (see subscription option \"_Served user_ receives indication
that a communication has been forwarded (indication of communication diversion
to the diverting user)\" in table 4.3.1.1).
**notify-served-user-on-outbound-call** : An optional element that can be used
to enable that the served user is notified that calls are being forwarded when
he makes a call attempt. Default this is switched off. (see subscription
option \"Served user receives reminder indication on outgoing communication
that CDIV is currently activated\" in table 4.3.1.1).
**reveal-identity-to-target** : An optional element that can be used to
disable the default behaviour that the diverted-to party receives some
identity information of the diverting party. (see subscription option \"Served
user allows the presentation of his/her URI to _diverted‑to_ user\" in table
4.3.1.1).
Information of which of the above mentioned actions the user is allowed to use
can be obtained from the network by using the schema defined in subclause
4.9.3. The \'serv-cap-target\' element indicates whether the user is allowed
to use any URI as target or whether the target needs to correspond to a
telephone number, i.e. a SIP URI with a \"user\" URI parameter set to
\"phone\" or a tel URI.
If a matching rule with an empty \ element is inserted, the CDIV AS
abandons the rest of the rules and continues with the terminating procedures.
NOTE: This can be used to avoid that a communication diversion based on
multiple media conditions is diverted by a later rule with only one of these
media conditions. The UE has no need for including such a rule unless it is
provided by the network.
#### 4.9.1.5 Supported Actions and Conditions for Communication Diversion
The supported actions and conditions for communication diversion are
configured with a list of action capability and condition capability elements.
These capability elements are read only and indicate which capabilities
related to communication diversion the network has provisioned for a user.
EXAMPLE: An instance of the simulation services configuration containing a
service capabilities document for communication diversion is shown in the
following example. It is based on operator policy if the restriction of
\ element to \ is needed. In this example,
the same capabilities as in call diversion in a CS network are supported.
\
\
\
\
\\
\\
\
\audio\
\video\
\
\\
\\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
### 4.9.2 XML Schema
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\This is the communication diversion configuration
document.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
### 4.9.3 XML schema for indication of supported conditions and actions
?xml version=\"1.0\" encoding=\"UTF-8\"?>
\
\
\
This schema defines elements that are used to inform the UE which conditions
and actions the
network support.
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
## 4.10 Void
###### ## Annex A (informative): Signalling Flows
# A.1 Normal cases
## A.1.1 Communication Forwarding unconditional
Figure A.1 shows an example signalling flow for a successful communication
forwarding unconditional based on an AS providing the forwarding.
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="6.572222222222222in"}
Figure A.1: CFU AS based normal case
User B has activated the CFU service.
User A is sending a communication request towards User B:
1) Initial INVITE request towards User B. **\- see example in table A.1.1-1**.
Table A.1.1-1: INVITE request (UE A to P-CSCF)
INVITE sip:user2_public1\@home1.net;gr=2ad8950e-48a5-4a74-8d99-ad76cc7fc74c
SIP/2.0
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
[5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
Max-Forwards: 70
Route: \,
\
P-Preferred-Identity: \"John Doe\" \
P-Access-Network-Info: 3GPP-UTRAN-TDD; utran-cell-id-3gpp=234151D0FCE11
Privacy: none
From: \;tag=171828
To: sip:user2_public1\@home1.net;gr=2ad8950e-48a5-4a74-8d99-ad76cc7fc74c
Call-ID: cb03a0s09a2sdfglkj490333
Cseq: 127 INVITE
Require: sec-agree
Proxy-Require: sec-agree
Supported: precondition, 100rel, gruu, 199
Security-Verify: ipsec-3gpp; q=0.1; alg=hmac-sha-1-96; spi-c=98765432;
spi-s=87654321; port-c=8642; port-s=7531
Contact:
\;+g.3gpp.icsi
\- ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
Allow: INVITE, ACK, CANCEL, BYE, PRACK, UPDATE, REFER, MESSAGE
Accept: application/sdp,application/3gpp-ims+xml
Accept-Contact: *;+g.3gpp.icsi - ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
P-Preferred-Service: urn:urn-7:3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel
Content-Type: application/sdp
Content-Length: (...)
v=0
o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
s=-
c=IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
t=0 0
m=video 3400 RTP/AVP 98 99
a=tcap:1 RTP/AVPF
a=pcfg:1 t=1
b=AS:75
a=curr:qos local none
a=curr:qos remote none
a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
a=inactive
a=rtpmap:98 H263
a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
a=rtpmap:99 MP4V-ES
m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96
a=tcap:1 RTP/AVPF
a=pcfg:1 t=1
b=AS:25.4
a=curr:qos local none
a=curr:qos remote none
a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
a=inactive
a=rtpmap:97 AMR
a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
2) Initial INVITE request towards User B. The URI-B is subscribed to the CFU
service.
3 to 4) Using the IFC the initial INVITE request is forwarded to the AS.
5) Procedures for CFU are executed.
6 to 8) Depending on the value of subscription option "_Originating_ user
receives notification that his communication has been diverted (forwarded or
deflected)", a 181 (Call Is Being Forwarded) response is sent towards the User
A indicating that the communication is diverted.
9) An initial INVITE request including URI-C as destination is sent back to
the S-CSCF. Additional the History-Info header is included. **\- see example
in table A.1.1-9.**
Table A.1.1-9: INVITE request (AS to S-CSCF)
INVITE sip:User-C\@example.com;cause=302 SIP/2.0
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP as.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK712z34.1,
SIP/2.0/UDP scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK332b23.1,
SIP/2.0/UDP pcscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK240f34.1,
SIP/2.0/UDP [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
Max-Forwards: 67
Record-Route: \,
\,\
Route: \
P-Asserted-Identity: \"John Doe\" \
Privacy:
From: \;tag=171828
To: sip:user2_public1\@home1.net;gr=2ad8950e-48a5-4a74-8d99-ad76cc7fc74c
Call-ID:
Cseq:
Require:
Proxy-Require:
Supported:
Security-Verify:
Contact:
Allow:
Accept:
Accept-Contact:
P-Asserted-Service: urn:urn-7:3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel
History-Info:
\;index=1,\;index=1.1;mp=1
Content-Type:
Content-Length:
v=
o=
s=
c=
t=
m=
a=
a=
b=
a=
a=
a=
a=
a=
a=
a=
a=
m=
a=
a=
b=
a=
a=
a=
a=
a=
a=
a=
a=
10) S-CSCF looks up to the HSS to identify the location of User-C.
11 to 12) The communication is routed towards User-C.
13 to 18) The 200 (OK) response is sent back to the User-A.
19 to 24) The ACK request is send back to User-B.
25) RTP media is established.
## A.1.2 Communication Deflection
Figures A.2a and A.2b describe the Immediate CD feature the only difference
compared to a regular CD is that in the regular CD case the \"302 (Moved
Temporarily) Moved Temporarily\" is preceded by a \"180 (Ringing) Ringing\".
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="6.457638888888889in"}
Figure A.2a
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="6.441666666666666in"}
Figure A.2b
User B has activated the CD service.
User A is sending a communication request towards User B:
1 to 2) Initial INVITE request towards User B. The URI-B is subscribed to the
CD service. - **see example in table A.1.1-1**
2a to 3) Using IFC the initial INVITE request is forwarded to the AS.
4 to 7) The initial INVITE request is forwarded to User B due to normal
communication procedures.
8 to 10) A 302 (Moved Temporarily) response with a contact header including
the URI of the forwarded to user is sent back to the AS.
11) The CD logic is executed.
12 to 14) Depending on the value of subscription option \"_Originating_ user
receives notification that his communication has been diverted (forwarded or
deflected)\", a 181 (Call Is Being Forwarded) response is sent towards the
User A indicating that the communication is diverted.
15) An initial INVITE request including URI-C as destination is sent back to
the S-CSCF. Additional the History-Info header field is included. - **see
example in table A.1.2-15.**
Table A.1.2-15: INVITE request (AS to S-CSCF)
INVITE sip:User-C\@example.com;cause=480 SIP/2.0
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP as.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK712z34.1,
SIP/2.0/UDP scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK332b23.1,
SIP/2.0/UDP pcscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK240f34.1,
SIP/2.0/UDP [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
Max-Forwards: 67
Record-Route: \,
\,\
Route: \
P-Asserted-Identity: \"John Doe\" \
P-Access-Network-Info:
Privacy:
From: \;tag=171828
To: sip:user2_public1\@home1.net;gr=2ad8950e-48a5-4a74-8d99-ad76cc7fc74c
Call-ID:
Cseq:
Require:
Proxy-Require:
Supported:
Security-Verify:
Contact:
Allow:
Accept:
Accept-Contact:
P-Asserted-Service: urn:urn-7:3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel
History-Info:
\;index=1,\;index=1.1;mp=1
Content-Type:
Content-Length:
v=
o=
s=
c=
t=
m=
a=
a=
b=
a=
a=
a=
a=
a=
a=
a=
a=
m=
a=
a=
b=
a=
a=
a=
a=
a=
a=
a=
a=
16 to 18) An initial INVITE request including URI-C as destination is routed
to UE C.
19 to 24) A 180 (Ringing) response is sent back to the originating user
including a History-Info header field as shown above. If no restriction is
given the diverted to user will be presented at the UE of user A.
25 to 30) The 200 (OK) response is sent back to the User-A.
31 to 36) The ACK request is sent back to User-B.
37) RTP media is established.
## A.1.3 Communication forwarding on no reply
Figures A.3a and A.3b shows an example signalling flow for a successful
communication forwarding on no reply based on an AS providing the forwarding
as described in bullet 2) of the subclause 4.5.2.6.3.
Figure A.3a
Figure A.3b
User B has activated the CFNR service.
User A is sending a communication request towards User B:
1 to 2) Initial INVITE request towards User B. The URI-B is subscribed to the
CFU service. - **see example in table A.1.1-1**
3) Using the IFC the initial INVITE request is forwarded to the AS.
4) The initial INVITE request is forwarded to User B due to normal
communication procedures.
5 to 6) The initial INVITE request is forwarded to User B due to normal
communication procedures.
7 to 9) A 180 (Ringing) response is sent back to the AS indicating that the
terminating UE is ringing.
10) The no-reply timer in the AS is started.
11 to 13) The previous 180 (Ringing) response is sent towards the originating
user indicating that the terminating UE is ringing.
14) The timer expires.
15 to 17) In this case, the option to not continue ringing the forwarding user
applies, therefore to release the communication to User B the AS sends a
CANCEL request
18 to 20) The 200 (OK) response for the CANCEL request is sent back to the AS.
21 to 23) Depending on the value of subscription option \"_Originating_ user
receives notification that his communication has been diverted (forwarded or
deflected)\", a 181 (Call Is Being Forwarded) response is sent towards the
User A indicating that the communication is diverted.
24 to 26) A 487 (Request Terminated) response with a ACK request finalize the
termination of the dialog between AS and UE:B.
27 to 29) The ACK for the 487 (Request Terminated) response is sent back to
User-B.
30) An initial INVITE request including URI-C as destination is sent back to
the S-CSCF. Additional the History-Info header is included. - **see example in
table A.1.3-28.**
Table A.1.3-28: INVITE request (AS to S-CSCF)
INVITE
sip:User-C\@example.com;target=sip:user2_public1\@home1.net%3bgr%362ad8950e-48a5-4a74-8d99-ad76cc7fc74;cause
408 SIP/2.0
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP as.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK712z34.1,
SIP/2.0/UDP scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK332b23.1,
SIP/2.0/UDP pcscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK240f34.1,
SIP/2.0/UDP [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
Max-Forwards: 67
Record-Route: \,
\,\
Route: \
P-Asserted-Identity: \"John Doe\" \
P-Access-Network-Info:
Privacy:
From: \;tag=171828
To: sip:user2_public1\@home1.net;gr=2ad8950e-48a5-4a74-8d99-ad76cc7fc74c
Call-ID:
Cseq:
Require:
Proxy-Require:
Supported:
Security-Verify:
Contact:
Allow:
Accept:
Accept-Contact:
P-Asserted-Service: urn:urn-7:3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel
History-Info:
\;index=1,\;index=1.1;mp=1
Content-Type:
Content-Length:
v=
o=
s=
c=
t=
m=
a=
a=
b=
a=
a=
a=
a=
a=
a=
a=
a=
m=
a=
a=
b=
a=
a=
a=
a=
a=
a=
a=
a=
32 to 34) An initial INVITE request including URI-C as destination is routed
to UE C.
34 to 19) A 180 (Ringing) response is sent back to the originating user
including a History-Info header as shown above. If no restriction is given the
diverted to user will be presented at the UE of User A.
40 to 45) The 200 (OK) response from User-C is sent back to the User-A.
46 to 51) The ACK request is sent back to User-C.
52) RTP media is established.
## A.1.4 Communication Forwarding on Busy
Figures A.4a and A.4b shows an example signalling flow for a successful
communication forwarding on busy based on an AS providing the forwarding.
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="7.1125in"}
Figure A.4a
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="7.045833333333333in"}
Figure A.4b
## A.1.5 Communication Forwarding Not Logged-in (CFNL)
Figures A.5 shows an example signalling flow for a successful communication
forwarding on not logged-in based on an AS providing the forwarding.
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="6.525in"}
Figure A.5
## A.1.6 Void
## A.1.7 Service configuration
Figure A.7: Service configuration example
**1\. HTTP GET request (UE to AP) - see example in table A.1.7-1**
The UE wants to retrieve the supported conditions and actions for
communication diversion from the AS.
Table A.1.7-1: HTTP GET request (UE to AP)
> GET
> /simservs.ngn.etsi.org/users/sip:user1\@home1.net/simservs.xml/\~\~/simservs/communication-
> diversion-serv-cap HTTP/1.1
>
> Host: xcap.mnc012.mcc345.ipxuni.3gppnetwork.org
>
> Date: Thu, 16 Jun 2011 10:50:33 GMT
>
> X-3GPP-Intended-Identity: \"sip:user1\@home1.net\"
**2\. HTTP 401 (Unathorized) response (AP to UE) - see example in table
A.1.7-2**
Upon receiving an unauthorized HTTP GET request the AP authenticates the UE.
Table A.1.7-2: HTTP 401 (Unathorized) request (AP to UE)
> HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
>
> Date: Thu, 16 Jun 2011 10:50:34 GMT
>
> WWW-Authenticate: Digest
> realm=\"xcap.mnc012.mcc345.ipxuni.3gppnetwork.org\",
> nonce=\"47364c23432d2e131a5fb210812c\", qop=auth-int
>
> Content-Length: 0
**3\. HTTP GET request (UE to AP) - see example in table A.1.7-3**
The UE repeats the HTTP GET request including the Authorization header.
Table A.1.7-3: HTTP GET request (UE to AP)
> GET
> /simservs.ngn.etsi.org/users/sip:user1\@home1.net/simservs.xml/\~\~/simservs/communication-
> diversion-serv-cap HTTP/1.1
>
> Host: xcap.mnc012.mcc345.ipxuni.3gppnetwork.org
>
> Date: Thu, 16 Jun 2011 10:50:36 GMT
>
> Authorization: Digest realm=\"xcap.mnc012.mcc345.ipxuni.3gppnetwork.org\",
> nonce=\"47364c23432d2e131a5fb210812c\", username=\"sip:user1\@home1.net\",
> qop=auth-int,\
> uri=\"/simservs.ngn.etsi.org/users/sip:user1\@home1.net/simservs.xml/\~\~/simservs/communication-
> diversion-serv-cap\", response=\"2c8ee200cec7f6e966c932a9242554e4\",
> cnonce=\"dcd99agsfgfsa8b7102dd2f0e8b1\", nc=00000001
>
> X-3GPP-Intended-Identity: \"sip:user1\@home1.net\"
**4\. HTTP GET request (AP to AS) - see example in table A.1.7-4**
The AP forwards the HTTP GET request to the AS.
Table A.1.7-4: HTTP GET request (AP to AS)
> GET
> /simservs.ngn.etsi.org/users/sip:user1\@home1.net/simservs.xml/\~\~/simservs/communication-
> diversion-serv-cap HTTP/1.1
>
> Host: xcap.mnc012.mcc345.ipxuni.3gppnetwork.org
>
> Via: HTTP/1.1 ap.home1.net
>
> Date: Thu, 16 Jun 2011 10:50:38 GMT
>
> X-3GPP-Asserted-Identity: \"sip:user1\@home1.net\"
**5\. HTTP 200 (OK) response (AS to AP) - see example in table A.1.7-5**
The AS returns the supported conditions and actions for communication
diversion.
The \ child element of the \ element
describes that audio and video media are allowed to be used as Communication
Diversion rule conditions. The other child elements of the \ element list the conditions that are not provisioned for the user.
If a service capability for a condition is not listed from the list of
conditions specified in subclause 4.9.1.3 then the condition is provisioned
for the user. The following conditions are provisioned: busy, not-registered,
no-answer, not-reachable.
The \ child element of the \ element
describes that the target needs to correspond to a telephone number. The other
child elements of the \ element list the actions that are
not provisioned for the user. If a service capability for an action is not
listed from the list of actions specified in subclause 4.9.1.4 then the action
is provisioned for the user. In this example, there are no other actions
provisioned.
Table A.1.7-5: HTTP 200 (OK) response (AS to AP)
> HTTP/1.1 200 OK
>
> Date: Thu, 16 Jun 2011 10:50:40 GMT
>
> Etag: \"eti87\"
>
> Content-Type: application/xcap-el+xml; charset=\"utf-8\"
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \\
>
> \\
>
> \\
>
> \
>
> \audio\
>
> \video\
>
> \
>
> \\ status>
>
> \\ deactivated>
>
> \\
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
**6\. HTTP 200 (OK) response (AP to UE) - see example in table A.1.7-6**
The AP routes the HTTP 200 (OK) response to the UE.
Table A.1.7-6: HTTP 200 (OK) response (AP to UE)
> HTTP/1.1 200 OK
>
> Via: HTTP/1.1 ap.home1.net
>
> Date: Thu, 16 Jun 2011 10:50:42 GMT
>
> Authentication-Info: nextnonce=\"e966c32a924255e42c8ee20ce7f6\"
>
> Etag: \"eti87\"
>
> Content-Type: application/simservs+xml; charset=\"utf-8\"
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> (...)
**7\. HTTP PUT request (UE to AP) - see example in table A.1.7-7**
The UE creates a new rule to activate the CFU service. If a rule with
id=\"rule1\" previously existed then the new rule replaces that rule. The rule
has an empty \ element.
Table A.1.7-7: HTTP PUT request (UE to AP)
> PUT
> /simservs.ngn.etsi.org/users/sip:user1\@home1.net/simservs.xml/\~\~/simservs/communication-
> diversion/ruleset/rule%5b\@id=%22rule1%22%5d HTTP/1.1
>
> Host: xcap.mnc012.mcc345.ipxuni.3gppnetwork.org
>
> Date: Thu, 16 Jun 2011 10:52:33 GMT
>
> Authorization: Digest realm=\"xcap.mnc012.mcc345.ipxuni.3gppnetwork.org\",
> nonce=\"e966c32a924255e42c8ee20ce7f6\", username=\"sip:user1\@home1.net\",
> qop=auth-int,\
> uri=\"/simservs.ngn.etsi.org/users/sip:user1\@home1.net/simservs.xml/\~\~/simservs/communication-
> diversion/ruleset\", response=\"adq3283hww88whhjw98822333ddd32\",
> cnonce=\"wqesatt874873j3gg3kk39944hhhee\", nc=00000001
>
> X-3GPP-Intended-Identity: sip:user1\@home1.net
>
> Content-Type: application/xcap-el+xml; charset=\"utf-8\"
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \tel:+15556667777\
>
> \true\
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
**8\. HTTP PUT request (AP to AS) - see example in table A.1.7-8**
The AP forwards the HTTP PUT request to the AS.
Table A.1.7-8: HTTP PUT request (AP to AS)
> PUT
> /simservs.ngn.etsi.org/users/sip:user1\@home1.net/simservs.xml/\~\~/simservs/communication-
> diversion/ruleset/rule%5b\@id=%22rule1%22%5d HTTP/1.1
>
> Host: xcap.mnc012.mcc345.ipxuni.3gppnetwork.org
>
> Via: HTTP/1.1 ap.home1.net
>
> Date: Thu, 16 Jun 2011 10:52:35 GMT
>
> X-3GPP-Asserted-Identity: sip:user1\@home1.net
>
> Content-Type: application/xcap-el+xml; charset=\"utf-8\"
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> (...)
**9.** **HTTP 200 (OK) response (AS to AP) - see example in table A.1.7-9**
The AS acknowledges the addition of the new CFU rule with a HTTP 200 (OK)
response.
Table A.1.7-9: HTTP 200 (OK) response (AS to AP)
> HTTP/1.1 200 OK
>
> Date: Thu, 16 Jun 2011 10:52:37 GMT
>
> Etag: \"efefefef\"
>
> Content-Length: 0
**10\. HTTP 200 (OK) response (AP to UE) - see example in table A.1.7-10**
The AP routes the HTTP 200 (OK) response to the UE.
Table A.1.7-10: 200 (OK) response (AP to UE)
> HTTP/1.1 200 OK
>
> Via: HTTP/1.1 ap.home1.net
>
> Date: Thu, 16 Jun 2011 10:52:38 GMT
>
> Authentication-Info: nextnonce=\"737jkjssj733hjjk3hjk3999ss3kj\"
>
> Etag: \"efefefef\"
>
> Content-Length: 0
# A.2 Interworking
## A.2.1 Communication Forwarding unconditional
Figure A.6b shows an example signalling flow for a successful communication
forwarding unconditional based on an AS providing the forwarding, with the
originating user in the PSTN.
{width="4.979861111111111in" height="4.754861111111111in"}
Figure A.6b: Call Forwarding Unconditional
## A.2.2 Communication Deflection
Figure A.7 shows an example signalling flow for a successful communication
deflection based on an AS providing the forwarding, with the originating user
in the PSTN.
{width="6.692361111111111in" height="5.0055555555555555in"}
Figure A.7
###### ## Annex B (informative): Example of filter criteria
This annex provides an example of a filter criterion that triggers SIP
requests that are subject to initial filter criteria evaluation.
An example of an IFC when the CDIV supplementary service is active at the
diverting S-CSCF is:
\- Method: INVITE.
If the AS cannot suppress CDIV for a call identified as a PSAP callback, an
IFC bypassing the CDIV AS can be used. An example IFC using the PSAP callback
indicator specified in IETF RFC 7090 [28] is:
\- Method: \"INVITE\" and Priority header field not containing a \"psap-
callback\" header field value.
###### ## Annex C (informative): Coding considerations
This annex provides an interpretation of the coding of the cause-param URI
parameter specified in RFC 4458 [14]
The cause specified in RFC 4458 [14] has the following syntax:
cause-param = \"cause=\" Status-Code
The Status-Code is originally specified in RFC 3261 [6] as a sequence of 3
digits. It is noted that the Status-Code simply indicates that it is composed
of 3 digits, without indicating the list of possible values. In particular,
Status-Code is not bound to and must not be confused with the 3 digit numbers
defined for SIP responses in RFC 3261 [6]. The Status-Code is used to hold the
redirecting reason.
For the purpose of legibility, the cause-param specified in RFC 4458 [14] is
interpreted according to the following syntax:
cause-param = \"cause=\" Status-Code
Status-Code = \"404\" ; Unknown/Not available
/ \"486\" ; User Busy
/ \"408\" ; No Reply
/ \"302\" ; Unconditional
/ \"487\" ; Deflection during alerting
/ \"480\" ; Deflection during immediate response
/ \"503\" ; Mobile subscriber not reachable
###### ## Annex D (informative): Void
###### ## Annex E (normative): Void
#