# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage three Protocol Description of the
Conference (CONF) service based on stage one and two of the ISDN CONF
supplementary service. It provides the protocol details in the IP Multimedia
(IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem based on the Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP) and the Session Description Protocol (SDP).
The present document specifies centralized conferencing, using a conference
focus, distributed conferencing is out of scope.
The present document does not cover the cases of :
a) cascading conference services; and
b) the support of the PSTN/ISDN conference service hosted in the PSTN.
The present document is applicable to User Equipment (UE) and Application
Servers (AS) which are intended to support the CONF supplementary service.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.173: \"IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem (IMS) Multimedia
Telephony Service and supplementary services; Stage 1\".
[2] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control protocol
based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol
(SDP); Stage 3\".
[3] Void
[4] Void.
[5] Void.
[6] Void.
[7] 3GPP TS 24.147: \"Conferencing using the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network
(CN) subsystem; Stage 3\".
[8] IETF RFC 3891: \"The SIP Replaces header\".
[9] Void.
[10] ETSI TS 183 043 V3.4.1 (2011-04):\"Telecommunications and Internet
converged Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); IMS - based
PSTN/ISDN Emulation; Stage 3 specification\"
[11] 3GPP TS 24.628: \"Common Basic Communication procedures using IP
Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\".
[12] 3GPP TS 24.610: \"Communication HOLD (HOLD) using IP Multimedia (IM) Core
Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\".
[13] IETF RFC 7090 (April 2014): \"Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP)
Callback\".
[14] 3GPP TS 24.166: \"3GPP IMS Conferencing Management Object (MO)\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 22.173 [1] and 3GPP TS 24.147 [7] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ACR/CB Anonymous Communication Rejection and Communication Barring
AS Application Server
CDIV Communication DIVersion
CONF CONFerence calling
CS Circuit Switch
ECT Explicit Communication Transfer
HOLD communication HOLD
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IP Internet Protocol
ISDN Integrated Service Data Network
MCID Malicious Communication IDentification
MGCF Media Gateway Control Function
MiD **Multi-iDentity**
MuD **Multi-Device**
OIP Originating Identification Presentation
OIR Originating Identification Restriction
PSAP Public Safety Answering Point
P-CSCF Proxy CSCF
PSTN Public Switched **Telephone** Network
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
TIP Terminating Identification Presentation
TIR Terminating Identification Restriction
UE User Equipment
# 4 CONFerence (CONF)
## 4.1 Introduction
The **CONFerence (CONF)** service enables a user to participate in and control
a simultaneous communication involving a number of users.
## 4.2 Description
### 4.2.1 General description
When the CONF service is invoked, conference resources are allocated to the
served user.
Once a conference is active, users can join and leave a conference, and remote
users can be added to or removed from the conference.
Conference participants can request to be informed of these actions.
The Management Object as defined in 3GPP TS 24.166 [14] provides a mechanism
for the UE to discover the Conference Factory URI to be used for the CONF
service. If the UE is not configured with the Conference Factory URI within
the Management Object then the UE shall derive a Conference Factory URI for
MMTEL as described in subclause 13.10 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [15] to be used for
the CONF service.
NOTE: Depending on the network operator, various mechanisms can be applied to
discover the Conference Factory URI (e.g., include the Conference Factory URI
in a letter written to the user or publish it on a website). A derived
Conference Factory URI might not be a valid URI.
## 4.3 Operational requirements
### 4.3.1 Provision/withdrawal
The CONF service shall be provided after prior arrangement with the service
provider.
### 4.3.2 Requirements on the originating network side
No specific requirements are needed in the network.
### 4.3.3 Requirements in the network
No specific requirements are needed in the network.
### 4.3.4 Requirements on the terminating network side
No specific requirements are needed in the network.
## 4.4 Coding requirements
For coding requirements see 3GPP TS 24.147 [7], clause 5.
## 4.5 Signalling requirements
### 4.5.1 Activation/deactivation
The CONF service is activated at provisioning and deactivated at withdrawal.
### 4.5.1a Registration/erasure
The CONF service requires no registration. Erasure is not applicable.
### 4.5.1b Interrogation
Interrogation of CONF is not applicable.
### 4.5.2 Invocation and operation
This subclause describes the usage of and the changes to the procedures of
3GPP TS 24.147 [7] for invoking and operating a conference.
#### 4.5.2.1 Actions at the originating UE
##### 4.5.2.1.1 User joining a conference
Procedures according to 3GPP TS 24.147 [7], subclause 5.3.1.4 shall apply.
##### 4.5.2.1.2 User inviting another user to a conference
Procedures according to 3GPP TS 24.147 [7], subclause 5.3.1.5 shall apply with
the following additions to subclause 5.3.1.5.3 of 3GPP TS 24.147 [7]:
\- A UE that has initiated an emergency call, shall not perform any procedures
to add the remote user in that call to a conference.
\- In order to avoid the establishment of a second communication to the
invited user, in case of an active session the UE may additionally include the
Replaces header in the header portion of the SIP URI of the Refer-to header of
the REFER request. The included Replaces header shall refer to the active
dialog that is replaced by the ad-hoc conference. The Replaces header shall
comply with RFC 3891 [8].
NOTE 1: In case of an interworking to the PSTN the routing of the INVITE
request from the conference focus to the MGCF that handles the Replaces
information is not deterministic and the replacement of the active dialog
might fail.
EXAMPLE: Refer-To: \.
NOTE 2: If a conference participant invites another user to a conference by
using a REFER request targeted at the other user (following 3GPP TS 24.147 [7]
, subclause 5.3.1.5.2), there can be cases where such REFER request is
intercepted by an AS serving the requesting user which applies special REFER
handling procedures according to 3GPP TS 24.628 [11] subclause 4.7.2.9.7.2.
The consequence of this is that the conference focus AS will receive an INVITE
from the referrers AS and not from the targeted user. This however does not
affect the conference focus procedures in any way.
##### 4.5.2.1.3 User leaving a conference
Procedures according to 3GPP TS 24.147 [7], subclause 5.3.1.6 shall apply.
##### 4.5.2.1.4 User creating a conference
Procedures according to 3GPP TS 24.147 [7], subclause 5.3.1.3 shall apply.
##### 4.5.2.1.5 Subscription for the conference event package
Procedures according to 3GPP TS 24.147 [7], subclause 5.3.1.2 shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.2 Actions at the conferencing AS
##### 4.5.2.2.1 Conference focus
Procedures according to 3GPP TS 24.147 [7] , subclauses 5.3.2 and 6.3.2 shall
apply with the following additions to subclause 5.3.2.5.2 of 3GPP TS 24.147
[7]:
\- If a Referred-By header is available in the REFER request, the AS shall
verify if the provided Referred-By header contains a valid identity of the
requesting user. If not, the AS shall replace the Referred-By header with a
valid value matching the P-Asserted-Identity header in the REFER request.
If no Referred-By header is available in the request, the AS shall add a
Referred-By header that matches the P-Asserted-Identity header in the REFER
request.
The procedures described in subclause 5.3.2.5.5 of 3GPP TS 24.147 [7] shall
not apply.
##### 4.5.2.2.1A Void
##### 4.5.2.2.2 Conference notification service
In case of the subscription of a conference participant to the conference
notification service, procedures according to 3GPP TS 24.147 [7], subclause
5.3.3 shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.2A Procedures at the AS serving the originating user
Upon receiving a REFER request in an existing dialog or outside of an existing
dialog containing a Target-Dialog header field identifying an existing dialog,
from a user involved also in a conference, the AS serving the originating user
shall first check that the REFER request is valid:
\- the Request-URI in the REFER request is targeted to the same UE instance
(remote UE) that is involved in the dialog; and
\- the Refer-To header in the REFER request contains an URI so that the method
constructed from the URI is equal to an INVITE request to the Conference
focus.
Otherwise, the AS may, depending on operator policy:
\- reject the REFER request; or
\- handle the REFER request with another service; or
\- proxy the REFER request on.
If any of the following is true:
\- the dialog on which the REFER request is received or the dialog which is
identified by the Target-Dialog header field in the REFER request, was that
established by an initial INVITE request that was identified as a PSAP
callback request; or
\- the Refer-To header field in the REFER request contains a URI with which
the referor is involved in a dialog where the initial INVITE request was
identified as a PSAP callback request.
the AS shall based on local policy on how to handle PSAP callbacks reject the
REFER request.
The mechanism to identify an INVITE request as a PSAP callback depends on
local policy and can be based on the PSAP callback indicator specified in IETF
RFC 7090 [13].
If the AS determines that the REFER request shall not be sent to the remote UE
and the AS decides to apply 3pcc the AS shall follow the special REFER
handling procedures in 3GPP TS 24.628 [11] with the following addition:
\- the AS shall include the \"isfocus\" header field parameter in the Contact
header field in the INVITE request sent towards the remote UE.
#### 4.5.2.3 Void
#### 4.5.2.4 Void
#### 4.5.2.5 Void
#### 4.5.2.6 Void
#### 4.5.2.7 Actions at the destination UE
Upon receipt of an INVITE request that includes a Replaces header, the UE
shall apply the procedures described in RFC 3891 [8] to the INVITE request.
#### 4.5.2.8 Void
#### 4.5.2.9 Void
## 4.6 Interaction with other services
### 4.6.1 Communication HOLD (HOLD)
The AS supporting the CONF service shall support the procedures for the held
UE as specified in 3GPP TS 24.610 [12]
### 4.6.2 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.3 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
For the conferencing AS implementing the conference focus, the following
applies:
\- If a participant is added to the conference and if TIR is active for the
terminating party of this session, then the identity information of that
participant shall not be included in conference notifications to other
participants.
### 4.6.4 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.5 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
For the conferencing AS implementing the conference focus, the following
applies:
\- If a participant joins the conference and if OIR is active for the
originating party of this session, then the identity information of that
participant shall not be included in conference notifications to other
participants.
\- If a REFER request is received and if the Privacy header field is set to
\"header\" or \"user\", then for the INVITE request to the refer-to target,
the conference AS shall:
a) not insert the Referred-by header field, if it does not exist in the REFER
request; or
b) remove the Referred-By header field, if the Privacy header field of the
REFER request is set to \"user\".
\- If an INVITE request with \"recipient-list\" body is received, and if the
Privacy header field is set to \"user\", then the conference AS shall
anonymize the From header field of resulting reINVITE request, if there is
established dialog between the conference controller and the target of the
reINVITE request.
### 4.6.6 CONFerence calling (CONF)
Not applicable.
NOTE: Cascading conference services are out of scope of the present
specification.
### 4.6.7 Communication DIVersion services (CDIV)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.8 Malicious Communication IDentification (MCID)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.9 Anonymous Communication Rejection and Communication Barring (ACR/CB)
The focus AS shall not accept REFER requests with a refer-to target that is
barred by the conference creators Outgoing Communication Barring (OCB) rules.
The focus AS shall remove the URI that is barred by the conference creator
Outgoing Communication Barring (OCB) rules from the list of URIs in the
\"recipient-list\" body of INVITE request.
### 4.6.10 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.11 Multi-Device (MuD)
No impact.
### 4.6.12 Multi-Identity (MiD)
No impact.
## 4.7 Interworking with other networks
### 4.7.1 Void
### 4.7.2 Void
### 4.7.3 Void
## 4.8 Parameter values (timers)
Not applicable.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Signalling flows
# A.0 Scope of signalling flows
This annex gives examples of signalling flows related to the Conference (CONF)
service.
These signalling flows are simplified in that they do not show the AS to MRFC
interactions nor the AS and MRFC functional split.
# A.1 CONF interworking signalling flow in case of an active communication
between IMS and PSTN
Figure A.1 depictures a flow where two UEs are engaged in a call, and one of
the users is located in the PSTN. At some point in time, UE A decides to
activate the CONF service and move the call to a centralized conference. UE A
creates the conference, and provides instructions to the conference server to
contact UE B and replace the initial communication with a communication to the
conference server.
Figure A.1: CONF interworking signalling flow in case of an active
communication\ between IMS and PSTN
\- Description figure A.1
NOTE: Only the most relevant messages are shown in figure A.1
UE-A is in an active voice session with a PSTN/ISDN TE (SIP dialog with Call-
ID, to-tag and from-tag between UE-A and MGCF). It then creates a conference
and invites the PSTN/ISDN TE to the conference by sending a REFER to the
conference focus, which invites the PSTN/ISDN TE to the conference by sending
an INVITE which includes the Replaces header to the MGCF. The MGCF confirms
the session, switches the existing bearer channel to the new RTP session, and
terminates the session which is replaced.
1\. to 3. UE-A initiates a voice session with a PSTN/ISDN TE by sending an
INVITE request to the MGCF.
Table A.1: 1.INVITE (UE-A to P-CSCF)
INVITE tel:+1-212-555-2222 SIP/2.0
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
[5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
Max-Forwards: 70
Route: \,
\
P-Preferred-Identity: \"John Doe\" \
P-Access-Network-Info: 3GPP-UTRAN-TDD; utran-cell-id-3gpp=234151D0FCE11
Privacy: none
From: \;tag=171828
To: \
Call-ID: cb03a0s09a2sdfglkj490333
Cseq: 127 INVITE
Require: sec-agree
Proxy-Require: sec-agree
Supported: precondition, 100rel, gruu, 199
Security-Verify: ipsec-3gpp; q=0.1; alg=hmac-sha-1-96; spi-c=98765432;
spi-s=87654321; port-c=8642; port-s=7531
Contact:
\;+g.3gpp.icsi-
ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
Allow: INVITE, ACK, CANCEL, BYE, PRACK, UPDATE, REFER, MESSAGE
Accept:application/sdp,.application/3gpp-ims+xml
Accept-Contact: *;+g.3gpp.icsi-ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
P-Preferred-Service: urn:urn-7:3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel
Content-Type: application/sdp
Content-Length: (...)
v=0
o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
s=-
c=IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
t=0 0
m=video 3400 RTP/AVP 98 99a=tcap:1 RTP/AVPF
a=pcfg:1 t=1
b=AS:75
a=curr:qos local none
a=curr:qos remote none
a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
a=inactive
a=rtpmap:98 H263
a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
a=rtpmap:99 MP4V-ES
m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96a=tcap:1 RTP/AVPF
a=pcfg:1 t=1
b=AS:25.4
a=curr:qos local none
a=curr:qos remote none
a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
a=inactive
a=rtpmap:97 AMR
a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
4: Interaction to reserve resources.
5: SS7: IAM.
7: SS7: ANM.
8: Interaction for session establishment.
9 to 11: The MGCF sends a final response back to the session originator.
Table A.2: 9. 200 OK (MGCF to S-CSCF)
SIP/2.0 200 OK
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP bgcf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK6546q2.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK332b23.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
pcscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK431h23.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
[5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
Record-Route: \, \
P-Asserted-Identity: \
P-Charging-Vector:
Privacy: none
From:
To: \;tag=314159
Call-ID:
CSeq:
Require: 100rel, precondition
Contact: \
Allow: INVITE, ACK, CANCEL, BYE, PRACK, UPDATE
RSeq: 9021
Content-Type: application/sdp
Content-Length: (...)
v=0
o=- 2987933623 2987933623 IN IP6 5555::eee:fff:aaa:bbb
s=-
c=IN IP6 5555::eee:fff:aaa:bbb
t=0 0
m=video 0 RTP/AVP 98 99
m=audio 6544 RTP/AVPF 97 96a=acfg:1 t=1
b=AS:25.4
a=curr:qos local none
a=curr:qos remote none
a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
a=inactive
a=conf:qos remote sendrecv
a=rtpmap:97 AMR
a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
12 to 14: The Calling party acknowledges the final response with an ACK
request.
15 to 24: UE-A creates a conference by sending an INVITE request to the
Conference Factory URI and connects to the conference.
Table A.3: 15. INVITE request (UE-A to P-CSCF)
INVITE sip:conference-factory1\@mrfc1.home1.net SIP/2.0
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
[5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
Max-Forwards: 70
Route: \,
\
P-Preferred-Identity: \"John Doe\" \
P-Access-Network-Info: 3GPP-UTRAN-TDD; utran-cell-id-3gpp=234151D0FCE11
Privacy: none
From: \; tag=171829
To: \
Call-ID: cb03a0s09a2sdfglkj490444
Cseq: 127 INVITE
Require: sec-agree
Proxy-Require: sec-agree
Supported: precondition, 100rel, gruu, 199
Security-Verify: ipsec-3gpp; q=0.1; alg=hmac-sha-1-96; spi-c=98765432;
spi-s=87654321; port-c=8642; port-s=7531
Contact:
\;+g.3gpp.icsi-
ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
Accept:application/sdp,.application/3gpp-ims+xml
Accept-Contact: *;+g.3gpp.icsi-ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
P-Preferred-Service: urn:urn-7:3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel
Allow: INVITE, ACK, CANCEL, BYE, PRACK, UPDATE, REFER, MESSAGE, SUBSCRIBE,
NOTIFY
Content-Type: application/sdp
Content-Length: (...)
v=0
o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
s=-
c=IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
t=0 0
m=video 3400 RTP/AVP 98 99a=tcap:1 RTP/AVPF
a=pcfg:1 t=1
b=AS:75
a=curr:qos local none
a=curr:qos remote none
a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
a=inactive
a=rtpmap:98 H263
a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
a=rtpmap:99:MPVMP4V-ES
m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96a=tcap:1 RTP/AVPF
a=pcfg:1 t=1
b=AS:25.4
a=curr:qos local none
a=curr:qos remote none
a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
a=inactive
a=rtpmap:97 AMR
a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
25 to 27: UE-A invites the PSTN/ISDN TE to the conference by sending a REFER
request to the conference focus, the \"method\" parameter set to \"INVITE\".
The Refer-To header of the REFER request includes the Replaces parameter with
Call-ID, to-tag and from‑tag from the existing SIP dialog.
Table A.4: 25. REFER request (UE-A to P-CSCF)
REFER sip: conference1\@mrfc1.home1.net SIP/2.0
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
[5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
Max-Forwards: 70
Route: \,
\
P-Preferred-Identity: \"John Doe\" \
P-Access-Network-Info: 3GPP-UTRAN-TDD; utran-cell-id-3gpp=234151D0FCE11
Privacy: none
From: \; tag=171829
To: \
Call-ID: cb03a0s09a2sdfglkj490555
Cseq: 127 REFER
Require: sec-agree
Refer-To: \
Referred-By: \
Proxy-Require: sec-agree
Security-Verify: ipsec-3gpp; q=0.1; alg=hmac-sha-1-96; spi-c=98765432;
spi-s=87654321; port-c=8642; port-s=7531
Contact:
\;+g.3gpp.icsi-
ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
Content-Length: 0
27a: Interactions to reserve resources for an additional participant in the
conference.
28 to 30: The conference focus sends a NOTIFY request containing information
about the progress of the REFER request processing. The Subscription-State is
set to \"active\".
31 to 32: The conference focus invites the PSTN/ISDN TE by sending an INVITE
request to the MGCF. The INVITE request includes the Replaces header with
Call-ID, to-tag and from-tag from the existing SIP dialog.
Table A.5: 31. INVITE request (MRFC/AS to S-CSCF)
INVITE sip:mgcf1.home1.net SIP/2.0
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP mrfc1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK23273846
Max-Forwards: 70
P-Asserted-Identity: \
P-Charging-Vector: icid-value=\"AyretyU0dm+6O2IrT5tAFrbHLso=023551024\"; orig-
ioi=home1.net
Privacy: none
From: \;tag=171123
To: \
Call-ID: bc03a0s09a2sdfglkj490333
Cseq: 127 INVITE
Require: replaces
Replaces: cb03a0s09a2sdfglkj490333;to-tag=314159;from-tag=171828
Supported: precondition, 100rel
Referred-By: \
Contact: \;isfocus
Allow: INVITE, ACK, CANCEL, BYE, PRACK, UPDATE, REFER, MESSAGE, SUBSCRIBE,
NOTIFY
Allow-Events: conference
Content-Type: application/sdp
Content-Length: (...)
v=0
o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::abc:def:abc:abc
s=-
c=IN IP6 5555::abc:def:abc:def
t=0 0
m=video 10001 RTP/AVP 98
a=tcap:1 RTP/AVPF
a=pcfg:1 t=1
b=AS:75
a=curr:qos local none
a=curr:qos remote none
a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
a=inactive
a=rtpmap:98 H263
a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
m=audio 6544 RTP/AVP 97 96a=tcap:1 RTP/AVPF
a=pcfg:1 t=1
b=AS:25.4
a=curr:qos local none
a=curr:qos remote none
a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
a=inactive
a=rtpmap:97 AMR
a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
33: Interaction for switching existing bearer channel to new RTP.
34 to 35: The MGCF sends a final response back to the session originator.
35a: Interaction to add the participant to the conference.
36 to 37: The Calling party acknowledges the final response with an ACK
request.
38 to 40: The conference focus sends a NOTIFY request containing information
about the progress of the REFER request processing. The Subscription-State is
set to \"terminated\".
41: The MGCF replaces the existing RTP stream to UE-A with the new RTP stream
to the conferencefocus.
42 to 44: The MGCF releases the session with UE-A by sending a BYE request to
UE-A.
45 to 47: UE-A responds with a 200 OK response.
# A.2 Call flow for 3PTY CONF
## A.2.1 Invite other user to 3PTY CONF by sending REFER request
Figure A.2 depictures a flow where two UEs, UE-1 and UE-2, are engaged in a
call. At some point in time, UE-1 decides to involve UE-3 into the
communication and activate the 3PTY CONF service. UE-1 puts UE-2 on hold,
initiates a session toward UE-3 to get the user\'s permission to start 3PTY
call, creates the conference, and moves the original communication with both
UE-2 and UE-3 to the conference server.
Figure A.2: Call flow for 3PTY conference
UE-1 and UE-2 are in an active call. UE-1 decides to add UE-3 to make it a
3-way conferencing call.
1\. UE-1 and UE-2 are in an active call.
2\. UE-1 puts UE-2 on hold before invoking the 3-Way Calling with UE-3.
3\~11. UE-1 establishes a call with UE-3 following normal call setup procedure
and gets UE-3\'s permission to start the 3-Way Calling.
12\~14. UE-1 sends an INVITE request to the conference server to establish a
conference session.
15\. The CS coordinates with MRFP to allocate conference resources.
16\~21. The CS sends a 200 (OK) response and receives an ACK request from
UE-1.
22\~27. UE-1 sends a REFER request to UE-2 with the Refer-To header set to the
address of the CS; UE-2 accepts the REFER request.
28\~33. UE-2 sends a NOTIFY request to UE-1 to indicate that UE-2 is acting on
the REFER request.
34\~35. UE-2 sends an INVITE request to the CS to join the conference.
36\. The CS coordinates with MRFP to allocate more resources.
37\~40. The CS sends a 200 (OK) response to UE-2 and receives an ACK request.
41\~46. UE-2 sends a NOTIFY request to UE-1 to indicate that it has finished
action required by the REFER request.
47\~52. UE-1 sends a BYE request to terminate the call between itself and
UE-2.
53\~58. In parallel to step 22\~52, UE-1 sends a REFER request to UE-3 with
the Refer-To header set to the address of the CS; UE-3 accepts the REFER
request.
59\~64. UE-3 sends a NOTIFY request to UE-1 to indicate that UE-3 is acting on
the REFER request.
65\~66. UE-3 sends an INVITE request to the CS to join the conference.
67\. The CS coordinates with MRFP to allocate more resources.
68\~71. The CS sends a 200 (OK) response to UE-3 and receives an ACK request.
72\~77. UE-3 sends a NOTIFY request to UE-1 to indicate that it has finished
action required by the REFER request.
78\~83. UE-1 sends a BYE request to terminate the call between itself and
UE-3.
## A.2.2 Invite other user to 3PTY CONF by sending INVITE request with URI
list
Figure A.3 depictures a flow where UA-A is involved in 2 communications with
UA-B and UA-C, both 2 communications are on-hold. The AS is involved in both 2
communications as a B2BUA.
When user A intends to start the 3PTY conference, UA-A sends an INVITE request
to the AS to create the conference and indicates that certain dialogs will be
re-used for this conference, The AS sends re-INVITEs in the indicated dialogs
and connects the media to the conference bridge. The dialogs can be indicated
by adding the Call-ID header field, the From header field and the To header
field to the entries in the URI list of the initial INVITE request.
Figure A.3: Call flow for 3PTY conference
1: Both dialogs are in the held condition. This assumes that the AS has the
correct interactions between the services call HOLD and CONF i.e. when the
conference is finished the origin dialogs 1c and 2c with Session-ID 1 and
Session-ID 2 will be resumed. This is needed to allow resuming the held
dialogs.
2: UA-A creates a conference and invites user B and user C to the conference
by sending an INVITE request to the Conference Factory URI and including URI
list in the INVITE request, UA-A indicates the dialogs which be re-used for
this conference in the uri list by the mechanism described in 3GPP TS 24.147
[7].
INVITE CONF AS
To: CONF AS
From: A
Require: recipient-list-invite
Content-Type: application/resource-lists+xml
Content-Disposition: recipient-list
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
2: AS verifies if the dialogs in URI list matches to a partial dialog which AS
already involved, In the case of a match the AS use this dialog ID information
to send re-INVITE request to UA-B and UA-C in the partial dialogs between the
AS and the invited users in order to connect the media of the invited users to
the MRFP.
3: After the establishment of the conference a couple of possibilities exist:
\- Release the two held and the active dialogs.
\- Release the active dialog between UA-A and the AS and resume one of the
held dialogs to active. And let the other dialog either to user B or C in
status HOLD.
\- Release one of the connections either to user B or user C. Which includes
the release of the UA-A to AS dialog and resume the held connection.
NOTE: There are different behaviours between mobile and fixed access devices.
While mobile devices are not able to provide more than two dialogs (e.g. one
held one active) while the fixed line access has no restrictions. TISPAN
defined in ETSI TS 183 043 [10] the IMS-based PSTN/ISDN emulation where a
couple of examples are given.
# A.3 Void
###### ## Annex B (informative): Example of filter criteria
An example of an IFC Trigger Point configuration where the S-CSCF invokes the
MMTel AS:
\- Method=\"INVITE\".
An example of an IFC Trigger Point configuration where the S-CSCF does not
invoke the MMTel AS for a PSAP callback:
\- Method=\"INVITE\" and not Priority header field with a \"psap-callback\"
header field value.
NOTE: Not invoking the MMTel AS assumes that the CONF invocation request can
be handled elsewhere in the network, e.g. in the PSAP itself.
#