# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
This technical report studies the key issues and the respective solutions
related to the support for network selection procedure that accommodates 5G
systems using satellite radio access networks. The objective is to:
\- identify the specifics of the satellite access networks with respect to the
legacy 3GPP access networks that are relevant to the PLMN selection procedure;
and
\- consider the need to modify the legacy PLMN selection procedure to address
the identified specifics.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 24.501: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for 5G System (5GS);
Stage 3\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.122: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) functions related to Mobile
Station (MS) in idle mode\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS); Stage 2\"
[5] 3GPP TR 23.737: \"Study on architecture aspects for using satellite access
in 5G\".
[6] ITU-T E.212 The international identification plan for public networks and
subscriptions (09/2016).
[7] ITU RR-2020-00013-Vol.1-EA5 Radio Regulations, Edition of 2020
[8] S3i200056 Response LS on the \"LS OUT on Location of UEs and associated
key issues\"
[9] 3GPP TS 31.102: \"Characteristics of the USIM Application\"
[10] 3GPP TS 24.368: \"Non-Access Stratum (NAS) configuration Management
Object (MO)\"
[11] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\"
[12] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\"
[13] S3i210129 Reply LS on selecting a PLMN not allowed in the country where a
UE is physically located
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**3GPP satellite access:** access network using satellite-mounted transmitters
and one of the following RAT types: NR(LEO), NR(MEO), NR(GEO) and
NR(OTHERSAT). 3GPP satellite access is considered a 3GPP access.
**International areas:** geographical areas, international waters and
international airspace that are not under the jurisdiction of any country.
## 3.2 Symbols
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
NTN non-terrestrial network
PLMN public landline mobile network
PLMN ID PLMN identity
TN terrestrial network
# 4 Deployment scenarios for PLMN selection
## 4.1 Scenario A
In Scenario A, shown in Figure 4.1.-1, a satellite access cell is contained
within a single country (Country A). This scenario is expected to be deployed
frequently. It would happen when a country is large enough to accommodate an
entire satellite beam within its borders. The PLMN ID broadcast in the cell
has MCC of Country A. There is a possibility of un-intended cross-border
leakage into adjacent countries (Country B and Country C).
Figure 4.1-1: Deployment scenario A
## 4.2 Scenario B
In Scenario B, shown in Figure 4.2-1, a satellite access cell spans across
multiple countries (Country A, Country B and Country C). There is a
possibility of un-intended cross-border leakage into adjacent countries
(Country D). This scenario is expected to be deployed often in parts of the
world where smaller countries are bordering each other, such as in Europe,
Central America, Middle East.
Figure 4.2-1: Deployment scenario B
There are the following options for the PLMN ID broadcast in the cell:
**Scenario B1** : Three PLMN IDs are broadcast, with three different MCCs
corresponding to Country A, Country B and Country C, respectively. This
scenario assumes that the PLMN operator is registered and obtains MNC in each
country.
**Scenario B2** : Single PLMN ID corresponding to one country (Country A) is
broadcast. Extra-territorial use of a PLMN ID, along with the conditions for
such use, is defined in ITU-T E.212 [6] (see Annex E).
**Scenario B3** : PLMN ID with a global/shared PLMN ID (with MCC 9xx) is
broadcast. The use of global/shared PLMN ID, along with the associated
conditions, is defined in ITU-T E.212 [6] (see Annex A and clause F.6).
## 4.3 Scenario C
In Scenario C, shown in Figure 4.3-1, a satellite access cell spans across a
country (Country A), its contiguous area (water or airspace) and leaks into
adjacent international area. The leakage into international area may be
intentional or unintentional. This scenario is expected to be deployed in
larger countries that have access to oceans and large seas.
Figure 4.3-1: Deployment scenario C
The PLMN ID broadcast in the cell has MCC of Country A.
## 4.4 Scenario D
In Scenario D, shown in Figure 4.4-1, a satellite access cell is dedicated to
the coverage of international areas. There may be leakage into Country A or
its contiguous area.
Figure 4.3-1: Deployment scenario D
There are the following options for the PLMN ID broadcast in the cell:
**Scenario D1** : The PLMN ID broadcast in the cell is a global/shared PLMN ID
(with MCC 9xx)
**Scenario D2** : The PLMN ID broadcast in the cell is the PLMN ID of the
operator of the PLMN. The MCC will be the MCC of the home country of the PLMN.
This scenario presents several (non-exhaustive) challenges:
1) frequency band used in international areas: according to ITU Radio
Regulations [7], the frequency bands allocated to maritime mobile-satellite
services is small relative to other types of mobile satellite services;
2) interference management; and
3) low power efficiency, due to beaming satellite signals into vast areas with
very low subscriber density.
Due to the above challenges, it needs to be determined whether this deployment
scenario should be considered. However, it should be noted that item1), 2) and
3) are not related to PLMN selection for satellite access.
# 5 Key issues
## 5.1 Key issue #1: Determination of the country of the UE\'s location
**In** [8], SA3-LI has established the requirement that \" Any solution shall
support the ability to enforce the use of a Core Network of PLMN in the
country where the UE is [physically located]{.underline}\". This means that,
if the UE is able to determine the country of its **physical location** , it
use this to select a PLMN. This goes beyond the requirements in the legacy
PLMN selection procedure in 3GPP TS 23.122 [3], where the country is defined
by the MCC or a range of MCCs (see 3GPP TS 23.122 [3]), of the serving PLMN.
NOTE: Where relaxation of regulation requiring UE to select PLMN of country it
is physically located in exist, how UE can learn about this relaxation and if
it is needed can also be part of this study
MCC-based determination of the country would not work for satellite access
because:
\- a 3GPP satellite access cell may span across multiple countries;
\- there are global/shared PLMN IDs with MCC that does not correspond to any
country (MCC 9xx); and
\- in international areas, the UE cannot rely on the MCC.
The following questions are expected to be studied within this key issue:
\- how the UE determines the country of its physical location and whether it
is in the scope of 3GPP;
▪ what assumptions can/should be made about the methods for determining UE
location (e.g. GNSS availability etc.) and the UE capabilities;
▪ how the UE maps its physical geo-location (e.g. lat/long) into a country of
its location; and
▪ determination that the UE is located in international areas; and
\- to what extent and under which conditions the UE could still rely on the
MCC of the serving PLMN to determine the country of its physical location.
## 5.2 Key issue #2: Use of core network of PLMN in country where UE is
located
**In** [8] and [13], SA3-LI has established the requirement that \"Any
solution shall support the ability to enforce [the use]{.underline} of a Core
Network [of PLMN in the country where the UE is **physically**
located]{.underline}\". The \"ability to enforce\" implies that the network
takes any laws and regulation for the area it serves into account to determine
whether enforcement of the use of a Core Network in the country where the UE
is physically located is required or not. From the UE point of view, it
implies that, if the UE is capable to determine that a PLMN is allowed in the
country of the UE location, the UE should select such PLMN.
The core network location verification can take place during the registration
procedure (by AS or NAS). However, from the protocol efficiency and resource
utilization efficiency point of view, CT1 can study if there are ways to
minimizes the possibility of registration rejection due to selection onto
PLMNs whose CNs are not in same physical country as the UE.
The following questions are expected to be studied within this key issue:
\- how the UE determines which PLMN(s) can be selected in determined country
of its physical location (if it is determined that the UE is not in an
international area);
\- what information could be available to the UE to help in selecting, in a
given country, a PLMN whose CN is physically located in the same country as
the UE:
▪ pre-configured in the UE; and
▪ provided by PLMN.
The regulatory requirement mentioned in [8] cannot apply to PLMN selection in
international areas (e.g. international waters and airspace) as international
areas are not under the jurisdiction of any country, see definition in clause
3.1. Hence this key issue is not relevant for international areas.
This key issue is related to Key issue #1.
## 5.3 Key issue #3: PLMN selection in international areas
**Satellite access networks are expected to cover large portions of the globe.
This includes international areas. Additionally, in** [8], SA3-LI also
provided requirements specific to international areas: \"Any [solution
addressing extraterritorial (e.g. international maritime zone and
aeronautical) use cases]{.underline} should provide means to notify the HPLMN
on roaming in and out of those areas\".
The legacy PLMN selection procedure in 3GPP TS 23.122 [3] does not address
international areas, i.e. areas that do not belong to any country.
The following questions are expected to be studied within this key issue:
\- how the UE selects PLMN if it is determined that the UE is in an
international area; and
\- what information could be available to aid in the PLMN selection in
international areas:
▪ pre-configured in the UE; and
▪ provided by PLMN;
This key issue is related to Key issue #1.
## 5.4 Key issue #4: Handling of shared/global PLMN IDs
PLMN IDs with MCC = 9xx are shared/global PLMN IDs. They are not associated
with any country and are assigned by ITU. Satellite access networks providing
coverage globally are expected to use these PLMN IDs.
The legacy PLMN selection procedure does not fully accommodate shared/global
PLMN IDs:
\- the definition of the \"country\" in 3GPP TS 23.122 [3] is based on MCC or
a range of MCCs; and
\- According to the current definition in 3GPP TS 23.122 [3], clause 4.4.3.3,
the UE in a VPLMN shall limit its searches for higher priority PLMN of the
same country (as defined in 3GPP TS 23.122 [3], Annex B) as the serving VPLMN.
So a UE served by a VPLMN with a MCC not in the global/shared MCC range would
not be able to re-select to a PLMN using global/shared MCC, and vice-versa.
The following questions are expected to be studied within this key issue:
\- what modifications are needed to the PLMN selection procedure to handle
shared/global PLMN IDs;
\- should these changes also apply to the legacy PLMN selection procedure;
\- what information could be available to aid in handling shared/global PLMN
IDs:
▪ pre-configured in the UE; and
▪ provided by PLMN; and
\- how to accommodate LI requirements when handling shared/global PLMN IDs.
## 5.5 Key issue #5: Handling of new satellite RAT
SA1 has specified a new Access Technology Identifier \"satellite NG-RAN\" to
be used in the Operator Controlled PLMN Selector list and the User Controlled
PLMN Selector list in USIM (see 3GPP TS 22.011 [11]). SA2 has specified
deployment scenarios in which a PLMN deploys both terrestrial and satellite
access with overlapping coverage (see 3GPP TR 23.737 [5]).
NOTE: SA2 has agreed on introducing new core network RAT types for satellite
access: NR(LEO), NR(MEO), NR(GEO) and NR(OTHERSAT). The core network RAT types
are not expected to have an impact on the PLMN selection procedure.
The impact of the new satellite RAT in USIM on PLMN selection procedure needs
to be evaluated.
The following questions are expected to be studied within this key issue:
\- what is the prioritization of the new RAT and how it is implemented in the
PLMN selection procedure?
\- what information is configured in the UE related to RAT prioritization.
## 5.6 Key issue #6: PLMN search for satellite access
The range for the search interval for periodic search for higher priority
PLMNs is specified in TS 23.122 [3]. Currently, there are two different search
interval ranges: for non-NB-IoT UE, and for NB-IoT UE, respectively. What
interval will be used for PLMN search in satellite access needs to be studied.
In the legacy PLMN selection procedure, the UE searches for higher priority
PLMN only among PLMNs with the same country as the RPLMN. It needs to be
studied whether this rule should remain for satellite access.
The following questions are expected to be studied within this key issue:
\- Whether there are different priority levels for available PLMNs in
satellite access?
\- Whether the periodic search for higher priority PLMNs in satellite access
is needed?
\- Whether the need to have a separate range of values for the search interval
for periodic search for higher priority PLMNs in satellite access; and
\- Whether the search for higher priority PLMN should be limited to PLMNs
where MCC matches the MCC or country of the RPLMN.
## 5.7 Key issue #7: Emergency calls
Satellite access networks are expected to cover the large geographical areas
which cover some countries and several PLMNs from the legacy communication
system perspective. To support emergency call services for UE might be
influenced by adopting satellite access. Therefore, it is needed to study for
the routing of emergency call to appropriate PSAP in the case of adopting
satellite access.
The following questions are expected to be studied within this key issue:
\- What modifications in automatic PLMN selection mode are necessary for a UE
using satellite access unable to obtain normal service from a PLMN?
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Mapping of solutions to key issues
Table 6.1-1: Mapping of solutions to key issues
             **Key issue**
* * *
Solution 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 1 X  
2 X  
3 X  
4 X  
5 X  
6 X  
7 X  
8 X  
9 X  
10 X  
11 X  
12 X  
13 X  
14 X  
15 X  
16 X 17 X  
18 X 19 X  
20 X  
21 X X
## 6.2 Solution 1
### 6.2.1 Target key issue
This solution addresses key issue #1.
### 6.2.2 Solution description
The salient features of the solution are as follows.
a) How the UE determines the country of its physical location and whether it
is in the scope of 3GPP
The solution relies on various locating methods, which are specific to UE
implementation.
The mapping (physical location to a country/international area) information
provisioned in the UE is used to determine the country/international area of
its physical location. How to provision this information to the UE is outside
the scope of 3GPP in this solution.
b) To what extent and under which conditions the UE could still rely on the
MCC of the serving PLMN to determine the country of its physical.
A UE can rely on the MCC of the serving PLMN to determine the country of its
physical location if the MCC of the serving PLMN is not in the 9xx range. If
the MCC of the serving PLMN is in the 9xx range, a UE should use its GNSS
capability to determine the country of its physical location because being
served by a PLMN whose MCC is in the 9xx range does not necessarily mean that
the UE is in an international area.
NOTE 1: The UE can rely on the MCC of the serving PLMN, as network
requirements are assumed such that a PLMN only keep registrations for UEs
verified to be physically located in a location the network is allowed to
serve and the broadcast MCC corresponds to this location, e.g. the MCC of the
serving PLMN corresponds to the country the PLMN serves.
NOTE 2: There can be temporary periods of time when the UE can be located in a
different country than the country corresponding to the MCC of the serving
PLMN, e.g. before the network or the UE can determine UE mobility to a
different country, but the UE can assume the MCC to correctly reflect the
country of its physical location when service is provided by the serving PLMN.
### 6.2.3 Impacts to existing procedures due to the solution
UE
If a UE is served by a satellite NG-RAN cell belonging to a PLMN with MCC in
range 9xx, the UE needs to determine the country of its physical location
using its own capability.
## 6.3 Solution 2: Determining PLMNs that can be selected in the country of UE
location based on USIM configuration
### 6.3.1 Target key issue
This is a candidate solution to Key Issue 2. It is relevant to the deployment
scenario A and B (B1 through B3).
### 6.3.2 Solution Description
It is assumed that the UE knows in which country it is located. How this is
achieved is a topic in Key Issue 1.
For each PLMN in the \"HPLMN selector with Access Technology\" and \"User
Controlled PLMN Selector with Access Technology\" and \"Operator Controlled
PLMN Selector with Access Technology\" files in USIM, there can be configured
a list of countries in which the PLMN can be selected. This list is optional
for each PLMN. If the list is not configured for a PLMN, the PLMN is
considered as selectable only in the country of its MCC, unless the PLMN has a
shared PLMN ID (MCC 9xx), in which case the PLMN is considered as selectable
in all countries.
NOTE: How the list of countries in which the PLMN can be selected is encoded
in USIM is left to CT6 to discuss. The encoding should suppport all the
relevant deployment scenarios.
Below is an example of the proposed USIM configuration. In this example, the
new proposed list of countries is implemented as an additional column D in the
existing Operator Controlled PLMN Selector with Access Technology file. How
exactly it ends up being implemented would be up to CT6 to decide.
Table 6.3-1: HPLMN selector with Access Technology file in USIM according to
the solution
A. Priority B. PLMN ID C. RAT(s) supported D. Allowed in following countries
(MCC)
* * *
1 310 070 (AT&T USA) E-UTRA, NR, NR_GEO Canada (302), Mexico (334) (NOTE 1)
NOTE 1: A PLMN is always allowed in its home country
Table 6.3-2: Operator Controlled PLMN Selector with Access Technology file in
USIM according to the solution
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | A. Priority | B. PLMN ID | C. RAT(s) | D. Allowed in | | | | supported | following | | | | | countries | | | | | (MCC) | +================+================+================+================+ | 1 | 310 270 | E-UTRA, NR | Empty (NOTE 1) | | | (Verizon USA) | | (NOTE 2) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 2 | 302 720 (AT&T | E-UTRA, NR, | USA (310) | | | Canada) | NR_GEO | (NOTE 1) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 3 | 334 50 (AT&T | E-UTRA, NR, | USA (310) | | | Mexico) | NR_GEO | (NOTE 1) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 4 | 901 44 (AT&T | NR_GEO | Empty (NOTE 3) | | | global) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 5 | 901 88 (XYZ) | NR_GEO | China (460) | | | | | (NOTE 1) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: A PLMN | | | | | is always | | | | | allowed in its | | | | | home country | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Column | | | | | D may not be | | | | | applicable to | | | | | PLMNs that do | | | | | not support | | | | | NTN access | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: If | | | | | column D is | | | | | empty, a PLMN | | | | | with a shared | | | | | MCC is allowed | | | | | in all | | | | | countries | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 6.3.3 Impacts
UE impacts:
\- New optional UE configuration in USIM and as part of SoR IEs indicating the
countries in which each PLMN can be selected.
Network impacts:
\- New optional UE configuration indicating the countries in which each PLMN
can be selected. Impact on SP-AF, SOR-AF, UDM and AMF. E.g. SOR-AF and UDM
need the UE location information to determine the operator list of PLMN/Access
Technologies.
NOTE: Enhancements of Steering of Roaming functionality to include information
on countries in which each PLMN can be selected and additional UE location
information, need updates to Steering of Roaming stage 2 requirements. Such
updates are to be assessed and agreed in the normative phase.
## 6.4 Solution 3
### 6.4.1 Target key issue
This solution addresses key issue #2.
### 6.4.2 Solution description
The salient features of the solution are as follows.
a) How the UE determines which PLMN(s) can be selected in determined country
of its physical location (if it is determined that the UE is not in an
international area); and
The mapping (a country to one or more PLMNs information provisioned in the UE
is used to determine the PLMN(s) which is allowed to operate in the determined
country. How to provision this information to the UE is outside the scope of
3GPP in this solution;
NOTE 1: The mapping information can indirectly map a country to one or more
PLMNs, i.e. a country can be mapped to different elements and the different
elements can be mapped to PLMNs.
b) What information could be available to the UE to help in selecting, in a
given country, a a PLMN whose CN is physically located in the same country as
the UE;
The mapping (a country to one or more PLMNs information provisioned in the UE.
Any LI requirements are under network and operator responsibility and
implicitly met, but not explicitly known, by the UE by following information
provisioned in the UE.
If the UE does not have valid information received from the network (i.e. 5GMM
cause value and optionally MCC), the UE deprioritizes PLMNs with satellite NG-
RAN access technology not mapped to the country of its physical location based
on the mapping information.
If the UE has information received from the network (i.e. 5GMM cause value and
optionally MCC) and the received information is valid, the UE shall not select
a PLMN with satellite NG-RAN access technology which is not aligned with the
information received from the network.
NOTE 2: By following the mapping information provisioned in the UE and the
information provided by the network, the UE implicitly meets any LI
requirements that may apply for the network.
### 6.4.3 Impacts to existing procedures due to the solution
UE:
\- If the UE does not have valid information received from the network (i.e.
5GMM cause value and optionally MCC), the UE deprioritizes PLMNs with
satellite NG-RAN access technology not mapped to the country of its physical
location based on the mapping information.
If the UE has information received from the network (i.e. 5GMM cause value and
optionally MCC) and the received information is valid, the UE shall not select
a PLMN with satellite NG-RAN access technology which is not aligned with the
information received from the network.
NOTE 1: The HPLMN can have means to (pre)configure the UE to use or not use
the MCC(s) of the country of the UE location provided by the VPLMN as
assistance information for the PLMN selection.
\- Receipt and handling of the information provided by the network has to be
supported.
Network:
\- The network should be able to send the list of recommended.
NOTE 2: The PLMN operator can have means to configure its AMFs to provide or
not provide the MCC(s) list of the country of the UE location to the UE.
## 6.5 Solution 4: PLMN selection inside international areas
### 6.5.1 Target key issue
This is a candidate solution to Key Issue 3. It is relevant to deployment
scenarios C and D, i.e. in international areas.
### 6.5.2 Solution description
It is assumed that the UE knows when it is located inside international areas.
How this is achieved is a subject of Key Issue 1.
PLMN selection in international areas should include the following adjustments
w.r.t. the legacy PLMN selection procedure:
1\. A transition in and out of international areas should trigger a PLMN
selection. The same procedure as for a PLMN selection upon switch-on should be
followed. Additionally:
a) the equivalent PLMN list is deleted; and
b) the RPLMN is not considered.
NOTE: As soon as the UE determines it is in an international area, the UE can
give higher priority or lower priority to searching for PLMNs on bands which
are used in NTN depoyments.
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS if such priortization is appropriate given that
there can be scenarios where the UE is in international areas onboard a vessel
which offers mobile services through onboard \"basestation\" operating as 3GPP
access through 3GPP Terrestrial Radio Access.
2\. During periodic search for higher priority PLMN inside international
areas, the UE does not eliminate PLMNs whose MCC is different from the MCC of
the serving PLMN; and
3\. UE configuration should optionally indicate:
a) whether or not a PLMN is selectable inside international areas; and
b) PLMN\'s priority inside international areas.
If no indication is provided for 3.a), the UE should assume that the PLMN is
selectable inside international areas.
If no indication is provided for 3.b), the UE should assume that the PLMN\'s
priority is the same inside and outside international areas.
The UE configuration in item 3.a) above can be implemented using a new
indication for each PLMN entry in the \"User Controlled PLMN Selector with
Access Technology\" and \"Operator Controlled PLMN Selector with Access
Technology\" files in USIM.
The UE configuration in item 3.a) and 3.b) above can be implemented using
separate \"User Controlled PLMN Selector with Access Technology\" and
\"Operator Controlled PLMN Selector with Access Technology\" files for
international areas.
### 6.5.3 Impacts
UE impacts for UE supporting satellite radio access:
\- New PLMN selection trigger (transition in/out of international area)
\- Changes to the UE logic for eliminating candidate PLMNs during PLMN
selection:
▪ the equivalent PLMN list is deleted;
▪ the RPLMN is considered not available; and
▪ PLMN with MCC is different from the MCC of the serving PLMN is not
eliminated
\- New optional UE configuration in USIM indicating:
▪ whether or not a PLMN is selectable inside international areas; and
▪ PLMN\'s priority inside international areas.
Network impacts:
\- provisionng and updating of new optional UE configuration in USIM.
\- new optional UE configuration: impact on SP-AF, SOR-AF, UDM and AMF.
NOTE: Enhancements of Steering of Roaming functionality to include information
on whether or not a PLMN is selectable inside international areas and PLMN\'s
priority inside international areas, need updates to Steering of Roaming stage
2 requirements. Such updates are to be assessed and agreed in the normative
phase.
## 6.6 Solution 5
### 6.6.1 Target key issue
This solution addresses key issue #3.
### 6.6.2 Solution description
The salient features of the solution are as follows.
a) How the UE selects PLMN if it is determined that the UE is in an
international area
The UE selects a PLMN according to the legacy PLMN selection process. The LI
requirement \"Any solution addressing extraterritorial (e.g. international
maritime zone and aeronautical) use cases should provide means to notify the
HPLMN on roaming in and out of those areas\" is not related to the PLMN
selection process.
b) What information could be available to aid in the PLMN selection in
international areas
Existing lists, e.g. \"HPLMN Selector with Access Technology\",
\"User/Operator Controlled PLMN Selector with Access Technology\", \"Forbidden
PLMNs\", \"Equivalent HPLMN\".
### 6.6.3 Impacts to existing procedures due to the solution
No impact.
## 6.7 Solution 6: Handling of PLMNs with shared MCC
### 6.7.1 Target Key Issue
This is a solution to the following questions in Key Issue 4:
\- what modifications are needed to the PLMN selection procedure to handle
PLMN IDs with shared MCC (e.g. 9xx);
\- should these changes also apply to the legacy PLMN selection procedure.
It is relevant to deployment scenarios B3 and D1 in which the serving PLMN
uses shared MCC.
### 6.7.2 Solution description
When the UE is performing periodic search for higher priority PLMN, the UE
should not eliminate any candidate PLMN due to the value of its MCC being
different from the MCC of the serving PLMN if:
1) The candidate PLMN has a PLMN ID with shared MCC; or
2) The serving PLMN has a PLMN ID with shared MCC.
### 6.7.3 Impacts
Impact on the UE logic for eliminating candidate PLMNs during periodic search
for higher priority PLMN when the UE is using satellite access.
## 6.8 Solution 7
### 6.8.1 Target key issue
This solution addresses key issue #4.
### 6.8.2 Solution description
The salient features of the solution are as follows.
a) What modifications are needed to the PLMN selection procedure to handle
shared/global PLMN IDs
No change is required in addition to modifications to the PLMN selection
procedure to take the LI requirement into account (which is addressed in key
issues #2) because in order for the UE to implicitly satisfy the LI
requirement addressed in the key issue, the UE follows information provisioned
in the UE and information provided by the network. If a UE cannot determine
the country of its physical location (due to its physical location in an
international area) or a PLMN belonging to the country of the UE\'s physical
location is not available or allowable, the UE can select a PLMN according to
the legacy algorithm. In this case, selection of a shared/global PLMN ID is
not prohibited.
b) Should these changes also apply to the legacy PLMN selection procedure
No.
c) What information could be available to aid in handling shared/global PLMN
IDs
Existing lists can be used. For example, \"User Controlled PLMN Selector with
Access Technology\" can be used to (de)prioritize selecting a shared/global
PLMN ID if a UE cannot determine the country of its physical location or a
PLMN belonging to the country of the UE\'s physical location is not available.
d) How to accommodate LI requirements when handling shared/global PLMN IDs
A shared/global PLMN ID can be selected if:
\- a UE cannot determine the country of its physical location (due to its
physical location in an international area); or
\- a PLMN belonging to the country of the UE\'s physical location is not
available or allowable (i.e. if the UE is in a situation where the LI
requirement cannot be fulfilled).
Or even if:
\- the UE can determine the country of its physical location; and
\- a PLMN belonging to the country of the UE\'s physical location is available
and allowable;
if one or more shared/global PLMN IDs are allowed to be selected from the
country (which can be known from the mapping information discussed in key
issue #2) according to information provisioned in the UE, a shared/global PLMN
IDs can be selected.
### 6.8.3 Impacts to existing procedures due to the solution
No impact.
## 6.9 Solution 8: Range of values for timer T for UE in satellite access
### 6.9.1 Introduction
This solution is intended to resolve the range of value for timer T, described
within KI#6(PLMN search for satellite access).
Presently, for the purpose of setting the value of Timer T (see 3GPP TS 23.122
[3], the UE is considered to be a non-NB-IoT UE or a NB-IoT UE. This
differentiation came about from a request from RAN2 detailed in C1-161743 and
subsequent CT1 agreed CR in C1-163109.
NOTE: The stage 1 requirement for the different range of values for timer T
was introduced in 22.011CR0235 (S1-161301).
As detailed in C1-161743 and C1-163109, the need for a longer range of values
for timer T, is to meet the expectation that NB-IoT devices have a 10+years of
battery life and is not about NB-IoT UEs operating under restricted or limited
NB coverage.
However, a UE operating in satellite access mode face no such battery lifetime
expectations. Indeed UEs in satellite access mode are not like NB-IoT devices
but more like UEs in normal everyday use by the average human user who can
charge their mobile phones from time to time.
In this solution, for the purpose of setting timer T, a UE in satellite access
mode can be considered as a non-NB-IOT UE. Moreover, the same use of any
setting for timer T in the USIM as specified in 3GPP TS 31.102 [9] and the
MinimumPeriodicSearchTimer as specified in 3GPP TS 24.368 [10] can be reused
as it is today.
### 6.9.2 Solution description
The principle of this solution is to consider that UE in satellite access
mode, be considered for the purpose of setting the value of timer T, as a non-
NB-IoT UE as described in 3GPP TS 23.122 [3], clause 4.4.3.3.1.
Thus, for a UE that is accessing the 5GC through satellite access, T is either
in the range 6 minutes to 8 hours in 6 minute steps or it indicates that no
periodic attempts shall be made. If no value for T is stored in the SIM, a
default value of 60 minutes is used for T.
If the UE is configured with the MinimumPeriodicSearchTimer as specified in
3GPP TS 24.368 [10] or 3GPP TS 31.102 [9], the UE shall not use a value for T
that is less than the MinimumPeriodicSearchTimer. If the value stored in the
SIM, or the default value for T (when no value is stored in the SIM), is less
than the MinimumPeriodicSearchTimer, then T shall be set to the
MinimumPeriodicSearchTimer.
### 6.9.3 Impacts
This solution has no impacts to what is already specified for the range and
value of timer T.
## 6.10 Solution 9: Determination of the country of the UE\'s location
### 6.10.1 Target key issue
This solution addresses key issue #1.
### 6.10.2 Solution description
There are two steps in the determination of the country of the UE location:
Step 1: determine the UE geolocation (lat, long)
Step 2: determine the country that corresponds to the UE location
#### 6.10.2.1 Determination of the UE geolocation
In the RAN WID on Solution for NR to support non-terrestrial access (NTN) in
RP-201256, the following is stated (emphasis added):
> _The work item aims to specify the enhancements identified for NR NTN (non-
> terrestr_ _ial networks_ _) especially LEO and GEO with implicit
> compatibility to support HAPS (high altitude platform station) and ATG (air
> to ground) scenarios according to the following principles:_
>
> _\- FDD is assumed for core specification work for NR-NTN._
>
> _\- NOTE: This does not imply that TDD cannot be used for relevant scenarios
> e.g. HAPS, ATG_
>
> _\- Earth fixed Tracking area is assumed with Earth fixed and moving cells_
>
> _[- UEs with GNSS capabilities are assumed.]{.underline}_
>
> _\- Transparent payload is assumed_
Based on the underlined text, a UE supporting satellite access is assumed to
have GNSS capabilities. Furthermore, if the UE has satellite access coverage
strong enough to camp on it, it is more likely than not to be able to
determine its location using GNSS. The inverse logic also applies: if the UE
cannot determine its location using GNSS signals then it is unlikely to
successfully camp on a PLMN using satellite access. In the unlikely scenario
where the UE camps on a PLMN using satellite access and is not able to
determine its location using GNSS, the UE could attempt to determine its
geolocation by other, implementation specific means.
#### 6.10.2.2 Determination of the country of the UE location
Once the UE geolocation is known, the UE determines the country of the UE
location in an implementation-specific way. Since GNSS capabilities are
assumed, it is not necessary to rely on the MCC of the serving PLMN to
determine the country of UE\'s physical location.
### 6.10.3 Impacts to the existing procedures due to the solution
UE impacts:
\- If a UE is served by a satellite NG-RAN cell, the UE needs to determine the
country of its physical location using its own capability.
NW impacts:
\- none
## 6.11 Solution 10
### 6.11.1 Target key issue
This solution addresses key issue #1 and is based on solution 1.
### 6.11.2 Solution description
The salient features of the solution are as follows.
a) How the UE determines the country of its physical location (if needed, see
bullet b) and whether it is in the scope of 3GPP:
The solution relies on various locating methods, which can be legacy or
specific to UE implementation.
If the UE supports TN access, the UE can rely on (legacy) procedures to
determine a country using an MCC of a TN PLMN serving the same area:
i) A UE can use the MCC of a TN PLMN for determining a country and for
selecting an NTN PLMN of that country, if the TN PLMN serving the area where
the UE is located is a PLMN:
1) broadcasted by an TN cell; or
NOTE: While cross-border TN-cell leakage can occur, an MCC broadcasted by the
TN cell generally minimizes the possibility of registration rejection due to
wrong country (see key issue #2).
2) received as part of the procedures for determining whether the visited
country mandates the selection of the N3IWF or ePDG in this country, when
accessing the network via non-3GPP access.
When a TN PLMN serving the area where the UE is located has not been
determined, solutions specific to UE implementation for determining the
country of the UE\'s physical location apply.
The mapping (physical location to a country/international area) information
provisioned in the UE is used to determine the country/international area of
its physical location. How to provision this information to the UE is outside
the scope of 3GPP in this solution.
b) to what extent and under which conditions the UE could still rely on the
MCC of the serving PLMN to determine the country of its physical location.
Editor\'s note: A solution for item b) is FFS.
### 6.11.3 Impacts to existing procedures due to the solution
No impact.
## 6.12 Solution 11: PLMN selection inside international areas
### 6.12.1 Target key issue
This is a candidate solution to Key Issue #1 to determine which country the UE
is physically located.
The solution is also relevant to Key Issue #3 to determine when the UE enters
to international area in deployment scenario C.
### 6.12.2 Solution description
The UE may indicate its capability for PLMN Selection Assistance (PSA)
information. Based on UE\'s support for PSA information, the HPLMN may
provision the PSA information to the UE as part of the steering of roaming
procedures. Alternatively, PSA may be configured in the ME or USIM.
Editor\'s Note: The requirement for PSA capability indication needs to be
provided by SA2.
Editor\'s Note: Architectural impacts on determining the PSA, if any, need to
be discussed in SA2.
The PSA information includes a polygon geofence to assist the UE in knowing
the geographical boundaries for country A or its contiguous waters.
Editor\'s Note: Whether there is a need to dynamically update PSA has to be
studied.
The UE shall derive its current location based on UE implementation method
outside of the scope of 3GPP. If the UE computes that its current location is
inside the polygon geofence, the UE shall consider to be within a country A\'s
territorial area. If the UE computes that current location is outside the
polygon geofence, UE shall consider to be within country A\'s extraterritorial
area.
In order to address the SA3-LI requirement mentioned in KI#3 description in
clause 5.3, if the UE detects that it transits between the extraterritorial
area and the territorial area, the UE shall inform the serving network via
dedicated NAS signalling, the serving network should then inform the HPLMN. In
order to avoid frequent indications, geographical or timer-based hysteresis
should be applied.
### 6.12.3 Impacts
UE supporting satellite NG-RAN access: indicate capability for PSA
information, need to derive UE\'s location periodically and apply the PSA
information.
AMF: provision the PSA information to the UE.
UDM: include the PSA information in the steering of roaming information.
NOTE: Enhancements of Steering of Roaming functionality to include PLMN
Selection Assistance information, need updates to Steering of Roaming stage 2
requirements. Such updates are to be assessed and agreed in the normative
phase.
## 6.13 Solution 12
### 6.13.1 Target key issue
This solution addresses key issue #5. It is applicable for the deployment
scenario A/B/C/D.
### 6.13.2 Solution Description
According to 3GPP TS 22.011 [11] clause 3.2.2.1:
_\"It shall be possible to have an associated Access Technology identifier
e.g., NG-RAN, satellite NG-RAN, E-UTRAN (WB-S1 mode), E-UTRAN (NB-S1 mode),
UTRAN, GERAN or GERAN EC-GSM-IoT associated with each entry in the PLMN
Selector lists.\"_
and in S1-204379 (the SA1\'s reply to CT1\' LS), there was an agreement in SA1
on adding \"satellite NG-RAN\" to the set of possible associated access
technology identifiers.
In addition, the agreed SA1 CR assumes that one identifier \"satellite NG-
RAN\" is sufficient.
Therefore, the solution to the key issue #5 is as follows:
a) An access technology identifier \"satellite NG-RAN\" is used for PLMN
selection.
b) \"satellite NG-RAN\" is applicable as an access technology identifier in
the \"Operator Controlled PLMN Selector list\", \"HPLMN Selector with Access
Technology\" and \"User Controlled PLMN Selector list\", \"satellite NG-RAN\".
c) \"satellite NG-RAN\" needs to be considered in the \"SOR transparent
container\" for 5G steering of roaming scenario.
The existing prioritization mechanism for different RATs(i.e., the new
satellite NG-RAN and old RATs e.g., NG-RAN, E-UTRAN, ...etc) is a general
design and can accommodate many new RATs; thus it can be extended (to include
the new satellite NG-RAN) and reused. No new prioritization mechanism is
needed, the PLMN+ACT selection shall follow the original \"prioritization\"
mechanism as specified in TS 23.122 [3].
### 6.13.3 Impacts
UE impacts:
\- New Access Technology identifier \"satellite NG-RAN\" needs to be supported
during PLMN selection.
_-_ New Access Technology identifier \"satellite NG-RAN\" in \"SOR transparent
container\" IE needs to be supported.
Network impacts:
\- New Access Technology identifier \"satellite NG-RAN\" in \"SOR transparent
container\" IE needs to be supported.
NOTE: Enhancements of Steering of Roaming functionality to include information
New Access Technology identifier, need updates to Steering of Roaming stage 2
requirements. Such updates are to be assessed and agreed in the normative
phase.
## 6.14 Solution 13
### 6.14.1 Target key issue
This solution addresses key issue #6.
### 6.14.2 Solution Description
The solution to the key issue #6 d) is as follows:
d) Whether the search for higher priority PLMN should be limited to PLMNs
where MCC matches the MCC or country of the RPLMN.
Based on the following consideration, the search for higher priority PLMN
should not be limited to PLMNs where MCC matches the MCC or country of the
RPLMN:
\- For users near or in the international area(e.g.sea , Scenario C/D), a
global/shared PLMN ID (with MCC 9xx) is broadcast. If the search for higher
priority PLMN is limited to PLMNs where MCC matches the MCC or country of the
RPLMN, the PLMN with MCC 9XX will not be considered in borders.
\- For users in a scenario mentioned in TR 23.737 [5] KI#10 (Multi-national
cell coverage area can span over multiple countries) and the Multi-national
cell of satellite NG RAN broadcast multi-PLMN ID with different MCC, only
searching for \"same country as the current serving VPLMN\" will keep the UE
registered in the same VPLMN even though the UE is moving between countries A,
B and C.
The search for higher priority PLMN should consider the MCCs allowed from the
UE\'s location as a precondition. It is suggested the following mechanism:
1) Enable a UE using satellite NG RAN to determine its location and support
location-MCC mapping, following a solution to KI#1 and KI#2.
2) During periodic search, the UE using satellite NG RAN checks it\'s location
and does the MCC mapping. The mapped MCC needs to be considered together with
the priority/order list of PLMNs(e.g. HPLMN/EHPLMN/EPLMN).
Editor\'s note: It is FFS whether the PLMNs on the priority/order list
matching the mapped MCC have the higher priority or the PLMNs on the
priority/order list not matching the mapped MCC are excluded.
3) The UE using satellite NG RAN can also check it\'s location periodically
and record the mapped MCC change for periodic search.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS how the UE implements the periodic checking and
whether the periodic checking works together with the periodic search.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS how MCC(9xx) and the international areas case are
considered for periodic search.
NOTE: The MCC allowed from the UE\'s location for periodic search may also be
provided by the network. How to provide MCC information from the network is
not in the scope of this TR/study of PLMN selection.
### 6.14.3 Impacts
UE impacts:
\- Consider the MCCs allowed from the UE\'s location as a precondition during
periodic search.
\- Consider the MCCs allowed from the UE\'s location as a precondition.
\- A UE configuration indicating, whether or not the received MCC(s) list of
the country of the UE location provided by the VPLMN shall be used as
assistant information for the PLMN selection.
Network impacts: For PLMN Selection: none.
NOTE 1: Network impact to support configuring and providing MCCs is expected
and is not in the scope of this TR, but in the scope of 5GSAT_ARCH WI in SA2,
see NOTE 2.
NOTE 2: The PLMN operator can have means to configure its AMFs in the network
to provide or not provide the MCC(s) list of the country of the UE location to
the UE. The HPLMN can have means to configure the UE to use or not use the
MCC(s) list of the country of the UE location provided by the VPLMN as
assistance information for the PLMN selection.
## 6.15 Solution 14
### 6.15.1 Target key issue
This solution addresses key issue #6.
### 6.15.2 Solution Description
The solution to the key issue #6 a) and b) is as follows:
a) Whether there are different priority levels for available PLMNs in
satellite access?
According to 3GPP TS 22.011 [11], SA1 only defines one identifier \"satellite
NG-RAN\" for satellite access and assumes it is sufficient. RAT types for
satellite access: NR(LEO), NR(MEO), NR(GEO) and NR(OTHERSAT) are not
differentiated in Access technology for satellite access.
In addition, according to 3GPP TS 23.122 [3], the NAS only focuses on PLMN and
PLMN/Access technology combination instead of RAT type during PLMN selection.
Therefore, it is no need to divide available PLMNs in satellite access into
different groups by RAT types and consider different priority levels for each
group.
b) Whether the periodic search for higher priority PLMNs in satellite access
is needed?
Based on the same consideration( i.e, satellite access is one of access
technologies for 5GCN, whether to a satellite only PLMN or a PLMN containing
satellite and terrestrial RAN), the periodic search for higher priority PLMNs
in satellite access ranking by RAT types(e.g. NR(LEO), NR(MEO), NR(GEO) and
NR(OTHERSAT)) is not needed. It is suggested periodic search for higher
priority PLMNs follow the original \"prioritization\" mechanism as specified
in TS 23.122 [3] (e.g. HPLMN/EHPLMN/EPLMN).
### 6.15.3 Impacts
UE impacts: None
Network impacts: None
## 6.16 Solution 15: Access technology selection based on PLMN Selector list
with wildcarded PLMN ID
### 6.16.1 Target key issue
This is a candidate solution to Key Issue 5. It is applicable for the
deployment scenario A/B/C/D.
### 6.16.2 Solution Description
It is assumed that access technology preference during PLMN Selection can be
indicated using the PLMN Selector lists. Note that, as per existing
requirements, a PLMN in a Selector list may have multiple occurrences with
different access technology identifiers. This allows indication of preference
of particular access technologies (e.g. Sat NG-RAN) over other access
technologies.
Whilst it is possible to indicate a preference for e.g. \"any network that
provides NG-RAN\" this way, this may lead to unduly long PLMN Selector lists.
It is therefore proposed to allow introduction of \'wildcarded\' PLMN IDs in
the User Controlled PLMN Selector list and the Operator Controlled PLMN
Selector list. The interpretation of an entry on a PLMN Selector list with a
wildcarded PLMN ID shall be: \"any PLMN ID that has any of the listed (R)AT
technologies\".
NOTE: How a wildcarded PLMN ID is encoded in the USIM file can be discussed in
normative phase. The simplest way, with least impact, would be to interpret a
specific MCC+MNC (e.g. 999 00) combination as a wildcarded PLMN ID. Another
way could be to encode a specific wildcard indication that can be added for an
entry on the PLMN Selector list. This would have impact on the file structure
of the PLMN Selector lists.
The tables below show some examples of the use of wildcarded PLMN IDs in
Operator Controlled PLMN Selector lists. Note that the wildcarded PLMN IDs can
also be used in conjunction with other than Satellite (R)AT indicators. This
makes the solution future-proof for when additional (R)AT indicators are
specified.
Table 6.16-1: Example PLMN Selector list: any satellite network (e.g. for
mission critical)
A. Priority B. PLMN ID C. RAT(s) supported
* * *
1 Operator A GERAN, UTRA, E-UTRA, NG-RAN, Sat NG-RAN 2 Operator B GERAN, UTRA,
E-UTRA, NG-RAN, Sat NG-RAN 3 * (wildcard) Sat NG-RAN 4 Operator C GERAN, UTRA,
E-UTRA, NG-RAN 5 Operator D GERAN, UTRA, E-UTRA, NG-RAN
Table 6.16-2: Example PLMN Selector list: non satellite networks first (e.g.
for IoT devices)
A. Priority B. PLMN ID C. RAT(s) supported
* * *
1 Operator A GERAN, UTRA, E-UTRA, NG-RAN 2 Operator B GERAN, UTRA, E-UTRA, NG-
RAN 3 * (wildcard) GERAN, UTRA, E-UTRA, NG-RAN 4 Operator C Sat NG-RAN 5 *
(wildcard) Sat NG-RAN
Table 6.16-3: Example PLMN Selector list: 5G capable networks only
A. Priority B. PLMN ID C. RAT(s) supported
* * *
1 Operator A NG-RAN, Sat NG-RAN 2 Operator B NG-RAN, Sat NG-RAN 3 Operator C
NG-RAN, Sat NG-RAN 4 Operator D NG-RAN, Sat NG-RAN 5 * (wildcard) NG-RAN, Sat
NG-RAN
Editor\'s Note: Encoding of wildcard is under CT6 responsibility and is FFS.
Editor\'s Note: The choice on which unique PLMN ID to use need to be referred
to GSMA or to ITU or both and is thus FFS.
Editor\'s Note: confirmation from SA1 on the use of a wildcarded PLMN ID is
FFS.
When processing an entry on the PLMN Selector list with a wildcarded PLMN ID,
the UE shall search for any PLMN that provides service with any of the (R)AT
associated with that entry, with in case of Sat NG-RAN (R)AT the conditions as
defined by the present study. It shall not search using other (R)ATs, even if
these may be available at the UE location.
Note that after PLMN selection and registration, the UE may move or may be
moved by the network to other (R)ATs that the serving PLMN also provides;
using normal procedures. This may include selecting a (R)AT that was not
included on the PLMN Selector list.
### 6.16.3 Impacts
UE impacts:
\- Encoding for the wildcard PLMN ID needs to be specified, i.e. specify a
PLMN ID value that is to be interpreted as wildcarded PLMN ID.
\- New behavior for interpreting a wildcard PLMN ID needs to be specified.
\- Existing UEs will not be impacted, in case the wildcard is represented by a
unique PLMN ID value, as UEs that do not find that unique PLMN ID will
continue with the next entry on the list.
Network impacts: none.
\- The HPLMN can configure and update the Operator Controlled PLMN Selector
with Access Technology file in the USIM in the same way as currently done.
## 6.17 Solution 16: Restrictions in camping on an acceptable cell
### 6.17.1 Target key issue
This solution addresses key issue #7.
### 6.17.2 Solution description
When a UE is unable to obtain normal service from a PLMN and needs to attempt
to camp on an acceptable cell and the UE is capable of determining whether a
PLMNs is allowed in the country where the UE is physically located, the UE can
camp on an acceptable cell with RAT satellite NG-RAN only if the acceptable
cell with RAT satellite NG-RAN belongs to a PLMN allowed in the country where
the UE is physically located.
If only PLMN not allowed in the country where the UE is physically located
associated with satellite NG-RAN is available and the UE is capable of
determining whether a PLMN is allowed in the country where the UE is
physically located, the UE shall enter the 5GMM-DEREGISTERED.NO-CELL-AVAILABLE
state.
If the UE is not capable of determining whether a PLMN is allowed in the
country where the UE is physically located, the UE shall select an acceptable
cell irrespective of the PLMN identity.
NOTE: How a UE can determine whether a PLMN is allowed in the country where
the UE is physically located is covered by Key Issues #1 and #2.
### 6.17.3 Impacts to existing procedures due to the solution
UE
If only PLMN not allowed in the country where the UE is physically located
associated with satellite NG-RAN is available and the UE is capable of
determining whether a PLMN is allowed in the country where the UE is
physically located, a UE enters the 5GMM-DEREGISTERED.NO-CELL-AVAILABLE state.
## 6.18 Solution 17: PLMN search for satellite access
### 6.18.1 Target key issue
This is a candidate solution to Key Issue #6 and relevant for a UE supporting
satellite NG-RAN access technology.
### 6.18.2 Solution description
The UE needs to be configured with a scaling factor either in the ME or USIM.
Alternatively, the scaling factor may be provisioned by the HPLMN via steering
of roaming procedures.
Editor\'s Note: Architectural impacts, if any, need to be discussed in SA2.
When searching for higher priority PLMNs only available via satellite NG-RAN
access, the UE should increase the periodic search timer T by the scaling
factor.
Editor\'s Note: The requirement for the periodic search timer T adjusted by
the scaling factor depends on SA1\'s assessment and feedback whether changes
to the background search timer are needed and if so, what the acceptable range
is. The adjustment to the periodic search timer also needs to be verified with
RAN2.
The UE shall continue to use existing periodic search timer T for higher
priority PLMN search via terrestrial access, while the use of the scaled
periodic search timer T is limited to the cases when only PLMNs with satellite
NG-RAN access are of higher priority than the current RPLMN.
An example is provided to demonstrate the use of the scaling factor:
Table 6.18-1: Example 1 for Operator Controlled PLMN Selector with Access
Technology file in USIM according to the solution
Priority PLMN ID RAT(s) supported Note
* * *
1 310-410 satellite NG-RAN PLMN allowed via satellite NG-RAN access 3 310-210
NR UE camped on this PLMN 4 311-211 NR Low priority PLMN of the same country
When the UE is camped on PLMN 310-210, and the high priority PLMN search is
only for satellite NG-RAN access, the UE uses a **periodic search timer = T
(EF~HPPLMN~) * scaling factor.**
Table 6.18-2: Example 2 for Operator Controlled PLMN Selector with Access
Technology file in USIM according to the solution
Priority PLMN ID RAT(s) supported Note
* * *
1 910-410 satellite NG-RAN Shared MCC, valid candidate for HPPLMN search as
per solution #6 2 310-266 E-UTRA, NR Higher priority terrestrial network 3
310-210 NR UE camped on this PLMN 4 316-211 NR Low priority PLMN of the same
country
When the UE is camped on PLMN 310-210, and the higher priority PLMN(s) include
both E-UTRA, NR as well as satellite NG-RAN access, then the **periodic search
timer** remains **T (EF~HPPLMN~)**.
### 6.18.3 Impacts
UE supporting satellite NG-RAN access: ability to store the scaling factor and
support for configurable periodic search timer.
AMF: provision the scaling factor to the UE via steering of roaming
procedures.
UDM: include the scaling factor in the steering of roaming procedures.
## 6.19 Solution 18
### 6.19.1 Target key issue
This solution addresses key issue #7.
### 6.19.2 Solution Description
This is a solution to the issue in Key Issue 7.
According to the clause 2 of the TS 23.122[3], if the MS is unable to find a
suitable cell to camp on, or the SIM is not inserted, or if it receives
certain responses to an LR request, it attempts to camp on a cell irrespective
of the PLMN identity, and enters a \"limited service\" state in which it can
only attempt to make emergency calls or to access RLOS.
On the other hand, for a UE using satellite access, according to TR 23.737[5]
solution #13, which is selected as the way forward for key issue #10, the
network should verify the UE location first during registration procedure over
satellite access to route either the normal service or the emergency service.
So, camping on a cell irrespective of the PLMN identity may cause a rejection
to the registration request. In addition, receiving a cause other than the one
telling the UE the selected PLMN is not allowed in the present UE location
means the selected PLMN has already verified the UE\'s location and the cell
UE camps on is an acceptable cell.
Based on the above considerations, it is suggested to distinguish the
situations listed in the clause 3.5 of the TS 23.122 [3] when UE attempting to
camp on an acceptable cell to enter a \"limited service\" state in which it
can make emergency calls:
\- For the UE using satellite access and unable to find a suitable cell to
camp on, it may camp on an acceptable cell with the PLMN identity containing
the MCC matching the country it locates;
\- For the UE using satellite access and the USIM is not inserted, while a new
PLMN selection is not triggered, it may camp on an acceptable cell
irrespective of the PLMN identity;
\- For the UE using satellite access and receiving a REGISTRATION REJECT
during the registration procedure, it may camp on an acceptable cell of the
selected PLMN or the one with the PLMN identity containing the MCC matching
the country it locates.
NOTE: Whether the UE using satellite access and receiving a REGISTRATION
REJECT during the registration procedure may camp on an acceptable cell of the
selected PLMN depends on the cause included in the REGISTRATION REJECT.
### 6.19.3 Impacts
UE impacts:
\- Distinguish the situations listed in the clause 3.5 of the TS 23.122[3]
when UE attemping to camp on an acceptable cell to enter a \"limited service\"
state in which it can make emergency calls.
Editor\'s note: The impacts on camping on acceptable cell and the definition
of an acceptable cell need to be confirmed by RAN2.Network impacts:
\- Need to verify the UE location first during registration and emergency
registration procedure over satellite access.
\- Need to respond with REGISTRATION REJECT, including suitable cause value to
tell the UE that the selected PLMN is not allowed in the present UE location,
as it is requesting registration and emergency registration in a country that
is different from its location.
## 6.20 Solution 19: _Use of network indication of MCC(s)_
### 6.20.1 Target key issue
This is a candidate solution to Key Issue 2.
### 6.20.2 Solution Description
NOTE 1: The following behavior of PLMN selection procedures rely on the
assumption that NAS signaling procedures are updated such that the network can
provide a list of possible MCCs that could be used by the UE during a
subsequent PLMN selection, given the UE location. The agreement of such update
is the SA2 area of responsibility.
Solution assumption also considers that the objective of the list of MCCs sent
by the network is to inform the UE of the country the UE is currently located
in, as determined by the network.
If the UE receives an optional list of MCCs for use during subsequent PLMN
selection, the UE shall consider this list together with USIM files content as
valid for subsequent selection of PLMNs providing satellite NG-RAN.
NOTE 2: The PLMN operator can have means to configure its AMFs in the network
to provide or not provide the MCC(s) list of the country of the UE location to
the UE. The HPLMN can have means to configure the UE to use or not use the
MCC(s) list of the country of the UE location provided by the VPLMN as
assistance information for the PLMN selection.
During this period, PLMN procedures as defined in 3GPP TS 23.122 [3] are
applied, but excluding PLMNs which MCC is not present in list of MCCs, with
following exception:
\- shared/global PLMN
Editor\'s note: extra-territorial MCC use case is FFS, depending on C1-210437
and C1-210439 LS responses.
Editor\'s note: the MCC list provided by the network, its semantics, and the
procedures by which it is provided is subject to confirmation by SA2.
At the end of the period, UE shall discard any list of possible MCCs received
from the AMF.
Editor\'s note: the complete definition of the period in which UE makes use of
MCCs received from AMF and the duration of validity of the received list of
MCCs are FFS.
### 6.20.3 Impacts
UE impacts:
\- Use of a new optional list of possible MCCs in PLMN selection, if
available.
\- A UE configuration indicating, whether or not the received MCC(s) list of
the country of the UE location provided by the VPLMN shall be used as
assistant information for the PLMN selection.
Network impacts:
For PLMN Selection:.
NOTE 1: Network impact to determine an MCC list and provision this list to the
UE is expected to impact the UE to network procedures and is not in the scope
of this TR.
NOTE 2: The PLMN operator can have means to configure its AMFs to provide or
not provide the MCC(s) list of the country of the UE location to the UE. This
is expected to impact the network configuration and is not in the scope of
this TR.
## 6.21 Solution 20: Handling or RAT prioritization
### 6.21.1 Target key issue
This solution addresses key issue #5.
### 6.21.2 Solution description
To address the need for more flexible prioritization of satellite access wr.t.
terrestrial access, we propose to allow to configure the UE that supports both
terrestrial and satellite access as:
\- TN-prefered: terrestrial access preferred over satellite access; or
\- NTN-prefered: satellite access preferred over terrestrial access.
To illustrate the impact of the configuration of the UE as TN-prefered vs.
NTN-prefered, consider this example:
EFOPLMNwACT (or EFPLMNwACT) file in USIM lists PLMNs in the following order:
**Priority** **PLMN** **RATs supported**
* * *
**1** A NR **2** A Satellite NG-RAN **3** B NR, Satellite NG-RAN **4** C
Satellite NG-RAN
TN-prefered roaming UE would derive the following prioritization:
**Priority** **PLMN** **RATs supported**
* * *
**1** A NR **2** B NR **3** A Satellite NG-RAN **4** B Satellite NG-RAN **5**
C Satellite NG-RAN
NTN-prefered roaming UE would derive the following prioritization:
**Priority** **PLMN** **RATs supported**
* * *
**1** A Satellite NG-RAN **2** B Satellite NG-RAN **3** C Satellite NG-RAN
**4** A NR **5** B NR
NOTE: The tables above are just an illustration. No new lists need to be
configured or provisioned. The only configuration is \"TN-preferred\" vs.
\"NTN-preferred.\"
TN-prefered and NTN-prefered prioritization would also apply to the HPLMN
(i.e. EF~HPLMNwAcT~ file) and to PLMNs not listed in USIM (i.e. \"any PLMN\").
The UE could be configured as TN-prefered or NTN-prefered by the user and/or
by the network. Network configuration could be achieved using a new
configuration parameter and provisioned in the UE using the following methods:
a) pre-configured in the ME;
b) pre-configured in the USIM; or
c) sent to the UE by the network using the Steering of Roaming procedure.
User configuration would override the network configuration.
NOTE: In the UE that supports both terrestrial and satellite access, it
assumed that either access can be disabled by the user, such that a \"TN-
only\" and \"NTN-only\" configuration is also possible. A UE configured in
such way would follow the legacy PLMN prioritization.
### 6.21.3 Impacts to the existing procedures due to the solution
UE impacts:
\- support for new UE configuration as TN-prefered vs. NTN-prefered
\- during PLMN selection, the UE filters out PLMNs based on the configuration
NW impacts:
\- support for UE configuration as TN-prefered vs. NTN-prefered (optional)
## 6.22 Solution 21: Use of user and device settings for searching Satellite
access or Terrestrial access PLMNs prior to PLMN selection
### 6.22.1 Target key issue
This solution addresses key issue #4 (Handling of shared/global PLMN IDs) and
key issue #5 (Handling of new satellite RAT).
### 6.22.2 Solution description
This solution consider that mobile handsets of today are dominantly multi-mode
devices and that device and user settings are available to indicate which
radio technologies supported by those multi-mode devices are the preferred
one. That device or user setting or both allows the multi-mode device to
efficiently search for available PLMNs in an orderly manner according to
preferred radio technology and thus assist in timely selection of a PLMN to
provide service to the user.
For instance, out of the box, a UE could be set to \"LTE only\" or \"LTE
preferred/UMTS secondary\" or \"UMTS preferred/LTE secondary\"or \"UMTS
preferred\" or \"5G preferred/LTE secondary\" etc, etc. And when such settings
are there in multi mode devices, if those devices need to make a search for
PLMNs they will search using those preset or (user) adjusted preferences to
first search on what is preferred and after that (when nothing of the
preferred radio technology can be found) to search for the secondary
technology.
NOTE 1: The allowance of user setting in today\'s mobile hansets to indicate
the preference of radio access technology already exist without any need to
specifically document these setting in CT1\'s Technical Specifications.
This solution envisage that for a multi-mode handset with satellite radio
capabilities, such preset or user adjusted settings will exist. So a satellite
capable multi-mode handset will have means to set a preference for terrestrial
access or satellite access. In this solution, use of such presets of
\"Terrestrial Access only\" or \"Terrestrial Access preferred/Satellite
secondary\" or \"Satellite only\" or \"Satellite preferred/Terrestrial Access
secondary\" will guide the UE\'s search for available PLMNs in the preferred
radio technology. And if a UE is set to \"Satellite only\" or \"Satellite
preferred\", then satellite radio/frequency bands will first be search before
other modes.
NOTE 2: The actual semantics of the MMI display denoting \"satellite\" or
\"terrestrial is a UE implementation issue. It is borne in mind that any such
MMI display need to consider that the average user are likely to not know the
technical distinction between GEO, MEO or LEO configurations of satellites.
Thus it is not a matter of a search for global/shared PLMN IDs but a search
for what [available PLMNs]{.underline} one can find under the radio technology
chosen or set within that UE. However, having this device or user setting,
overcomes the concern that the UE can mistakenly search for terrestrial access
PLMNs that have global/shared PLMN IDs.
With this solution, once the [available PLMNs]{.underline} under a preferred
technology (or required technology) are found then it is a matter of
prioritising those [available PLMNs]{.underline} using the existing USIM and
ME files such as EF~PLMNwAcT~ (User controlled PLMN selector with Access
Technology), EF~OPLMNwACT~ (Operator controlled PLMN selector with Access
Technology), EF~HPLMNwAcT~ (HPLMN selector with Access Technology).\ In this
way of working - i.e. first use the device settings of radio technology to
perform a search for available PLMNs, then utilise the USIM files to establish
the priority of the available PLMNs -- there are no impacts to the currently
specified PLMN selection procedures other than having to introduce the extra
NR radio access technology identifier which in any case has to be done in
accordance to SA1\'s indication in incoming LS C1-210041.
Additionally, by separately looking for available PLMNs in dedicated radio
access technology, the concern that terrestrial access PLMNs with share/global
PLMN IDs might be mixed into the search and selection of satellite access
PLMNs with shared/global PLMN IDs is avoided.
### 6.22.3 Impacts
UE impacts:
\- Introduction within UE device settings -- as implementation options - the
indications of satellite access or terrestrial access as a radio technology
preference.
\- Introduction of the new Access Technology Identifier to the required EF
files (under the responsibilities of CT6). This introduction is already
necessary under KI#5 and by SA1\'s LS in C1-210041.
Network impacts: None
NOTE 3: No specification impacts expected.
## 6.23 Solution 22: UE unawareness of LI requirements
### 6.23.1 Target key issue
This solution addresses Key issue #2, Use of core network of PLMN in country
where UE is located.
### 6.23.2 Solution description
It is assumed that the UE can determine its physical location and map this
location to a country or international area. How this is achieved is a topic
in Key issue #1.
Key issue #2 deals with the ability of the 3GPP system supporting NTN access
to enforce use of a PLMN with a core network physically located in the country
where the UE is located, subject to laws and regulations that apply in this
country. In Key issue #2 it is to be studied what information can be available
at the UE to use at PLMN selection related to this requirement.
As as the ability to enforce use of a core network of a PLMN in the country
where the UE is physically located is an LI property that may be mandated by
laws and regulation it is not allowed to be known by the UE as criteria to
select a specific PLMN. Other information that does not reveal network LI
capabilities, and laws/regulations that mandate support of such LI
capabilities, may be provided by the network for use at PLMN selection, e.g.
what country a PLMN can serve. What considerations, including possible LI
requirements, are taken into account by the satellite network/operator in
providing information to aid the UE to select prioritized PLMNs is not visible
to the UE.
It is assumed that in the registration procedure, the UE location is
determined by the selected CN and UE registration is rejected if the selected
PLMN does not match the location determined by the network in cases where laws
and regulation require use of a core network in the country where UE is
located. Alternatively, the network can accept the registration if the UE
location cannot be determined, and decide whether to deregister the UE or not
upon completion of UE location determination in the network.
Thus, no modifications are needed to the PLMN selection procedure to add UE
knowledge of the physical location of the PLMN\'s core network, or any other
information that may reveal LI capabilities of the PLMN. From the UE point of
view, it suffices to know only whether a PLMN can operate, i.e. serve the UE,
at the UE location or not, without revealing to the UE any reasons behind such
designation.
### 6.23.3 Impacts to existing procedures due to the solution
UE impacts:
\- None.
NOTE 1: UE impact is expected to select PLMNs based on its location and
possibly information available at the UE as captured in solutions for other
Key issues of this TR. Such information is used at the UE to determine whether
a PLMN can operate, i.e. serve the UE, at the UE location or not. These
solutions, and stage 3 implemetations thereof, however cannot rely on UE
knowledge of the PLMN\'s core network physical location, or any other
information that may reveal LI capabilities of the network.
Network impacts:
For PLMN Selection: none.
NOTE 2: Network impacts to support the ability to enforce the use of a Core
Network located in the same country as where the UE is physically located is
expected to be defined in the stage 2 specifications under SA2 remit and
therefore is not in the scope of this TR. Stage 3 work is done when normative
stage 2 specification is available.
# 7 Evaluation
## 7.1 Evaluation of Solutions for Key Issue #1
Table 7.1-1: Evaluation of the solutions to KI#1
+----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | Solution | Description | Evaluation | +==========+============================+============================+ | 1 | a) Locating methods are | This solution covers all | | | specific to UE | items a.1, a.2, a.3, | | | implementation. | assuming that the mapping | | | | between the physical | | | The mapping (physical | location and the country | | | location to a | is | | | country/international | implementation-specific. | | | area) information is | | | | provisioned in the UE. How | This solution covers item | | | to provision this | b) as per the network | | | information to the UE is | based solution proposed by | | | outside the scope of 3GPP | SA2. Assuming that the UE | | | in this solution. | can rely on the MCC of the | | | | serving PLMN over | | | b) A UE can rely on the | satellite to determine the | | | MCC of the serving PLMN to | country of its location. | | | determine the country of | | | | its physical location. | For item a) Geographical | | | (assuming PLMN only keep | countries definition in | | | registrations for UEs | the UE may need to be | | | verified to be physically | updated due to border | | | located in a location the | changes. This will lead to | | | network is allowed to | download of configuration | | | serve and the broadcast | data inside the UE. | | | MCC corresponds to this | | | | location) | If a UE is served by a | | | | satellite NG-RAN cell | | | | belonging to a PLMN with | | | | MCC in range 9xx, the UE | | | | needs to determine the | | | | country of its physical | | | | location using its own | | | | capability | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 9 | a) UE supporting | This solution covers all | | | satellite access is | items a.1, a.2, a.3, | | | assumed to have GNSS | assuming that the mapping | | | capabilities. | between the physical | | | | location and the country | | | Once the UE geolocation is | is | | | known, the UE determines | implementation-specific. | | | the country of the UE | | | | location in an | If a UE is served by a | | | implementation-specific | satellite NG-RAN cell, the | | | way. | UE needs to determine the | | | | country of its physical | | | b) Since GNSS | location using its own | | | capabilities are assumed, | capability. | | | it is not necessary to | | | | rely on the MCC of the | | | | serving PLMN to determine | | | | the country of UE\'s | | | | physical location | | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 10 | This solution adds to sol1 | Same remarks apply as for | | | part a) the following | Solution#1, part a) | | | aspects: | | | | | This solution#10 does not | | | If the UE supports TN | covers part b) (FFS) | | | access, the UE can rely on | | | | (legacy) procedures to | Solution is then specific | | | determine a country using | to the UEs that support | | | an MCC of a TN PLMN | terrestrial access or | | | serving the same area, | non-3GPP access | | | broadcasted by an TN cell; | | | | or received as part of the | For UEs supporting also | | | procedures for determining | terrestrial access or | | | whether the visited | non-3GPP access, relying | | | country mandates the | on an MCC broadcasted by | | | selection of the N3IWF or | the TN cell generally | | | ePDG in this country, when | minimizes the possibility | | | accessing the network via | of registration rejection | | | non-3GPP access. | due to wrong country | | | | | | | | There are cases (e.g: | | | | local gNB on a ship, fake | | | | gNB) where using a TN | | | | broadcasted MCC could lead | | | | to wrong country | | | | determination. | | | | | | | | UEs supporting both TN and | | | | NTN access may need to | | | | consider the case of a gNB | | | | emitting an incorrect MCC | | | | (local gNB on a ship, fake | | | | gNB) when determining the | | | | country using this method | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 11 | a) The UE may indicate | Solution covers a.1) | | | its capability for PLMN | | | | Selection Assistance (PSA) | Solution covers a.2) and | | | information. Based on | a.3) with PSA geofence | | | UE\'s support for PSA | polygon information. | | | information, the HPLMN may | | | | provision the PSA | Soluton covers b) | | | information to the UE as | implicitly. | | | part of the steering of | | | | roaming procedures. | This solution is based on | | | Alternatively, PSA may be | new PSA feature that | | | configured in the ME or | requires SA2 work not part | | | USIM. The PSA information | of NTN study today. | | | includes a polygon | | | | geofence to assist the UE | This solution seems like | | | in knowing the | out of scope of CT1 and | | | geographical boundaries | 3GPP. Country boundaries | | | for country A or its | do not change often and | | | contiguous waters. The UE | the border polygon files | | | shall derive its current | are small. | | | location based on UE | | | | implementation method | | | | outside of the scope of | | | | 3GPP. If the UE computes | | | | that its current location | | | | is inside the polygon | | | | geofence, the UE shall | | | | consider to be within a | | | | country A\'s territorial | | | | area. If the UE computes | | | | that current location is | | | | outside the polygon | | | | geofence, UE shall | | | | consider to be within | | | | country A\'s | | | | extraterritorial area. In | | | | order to address the | | | | SA3-LI requirement | | | | mentioned in KI#3 | | | | description in clause 5.3, | | | | if the UE detects that it | | | | transits between the | | | | extraterritorial area and | | | | the territorial area, the | | | | UE shall inform the | | | | serving network via | | | | dedicated NAS signalling, | | | | the serving network should | | | | then inform the HPLMN. In | | | | order to avoid frequent | | | | indications, geographical | | | | or timer-based hysteresis | | | | should be applied | | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
Questions for discussion:
1\. Should the mapping between the UE\'s physical location and the country of
the UE location be provisioned using means specified by CT1 or should the
mapping be implementation specific?
## 7.2 Evaluation of Solutions for Key Issue #2
Table 7.2-1
+----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | Solution | Summary | Evaluation | +==========+============================+============================+ | 2 | For each PLMN in the | HPLMN controls the PLMN | | | \"HPLMN selector with | selection for satellite | | | Access Technology\" and | access via USIM and, | | | \"User Controlled PLMN | optionally, which | | | Selector with Access | countries each PLMN is | | | Technology\" and | allowed in. | | | \"Operator Controlled PLMN | | | | Selector with Access | It allows for various | | | Technology\" files in | deployment scenarios for a | | | USIM, there can be | PLMN (country-specific | | | configured a list of | MCC, extraterritorial MCC, | | | countries in which the | global/shared MCC). | | | PLMN can be selected. This | | | | list is optional for each | The UE impact is new | | | PLMN. If the list is not | optional USIM | | | configured for a PLMN, the | configuration. | | | PLMN is considered as | | | | selectable only in the | In other aspects, the UE | | | country of its MCC, unless | follows the legacy PLMN | | | the PLMN has a shared PLMN | selection procedure. | | | ID (MCC 9xx), in which | | | | case the PLMN is | This solution is not | | | considered as selectable | compatible with solutions | | | in all countries. | 3 and 19. | | | | | | | In other aspects, the UE | | | | follows the legacy PLMN | | | | selection procedure. | | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 3 | The mapping (a country to | The solution allows for | | | one or more PLMNs) | various deployment | | | information provisioned in | scenarios for a PLMN | | | the UE is used to | (country-specific MCC, | | | determine the PLMN(s). How | extraterritorial MCC, | | | to provision this mapping | global/shared MCC). | | | information to the UE is | | | | outside the scope of 3GPP | The UE impact is new | | | in this solution. | optional UE configuration | | | | (outside of scope of | | | Key differences compared | 3GPP). | | | to the current PLMN | | | | selection procedure are as | It is out of the scope of | | | follows. | the solution who controls | | | | the UE provisioning for | | | 1) If the UE does not | PLMN selection for | | | have valid information | satellite access or how | | | received from the network | the HPLMN controls it. | | | (i.e. 5GMM cause value and | | | | optionally MCC), the UE | This solution is not | | | deprioritizes PLMNs with | compatible with solution | | | satellite NG-RAN access | 2. | | | technology not mapped to | | | | the country of its | | | | physical location based on | | | | the mapping information. | | | | | | | | 2) ) If the UE has | | | | information received from | | | | the network (i.e. 5GMM | | | | cause value and optionally | | | | MCC) and the received | | | | information is valid, the | | | | UE shall not select a PLMN | | | | with satellite NG-RAN | | | | access technology which is | | | | not aligned with the | | | | information received from | | | | the network. | | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 19 | If the UE receives an | The solution limits the | | | optional list of MCCs from | selected PLMN to either | | | the AMF for use during | the MCC of the country of | | | subsequent PLMN selection, | the UE location as | | | the UE shall consider this | indicated by the AMF or | | | list together with USIM | shared MCC 9xx. | | | files content as valid for | | | | subsequent selection of | The solution does not | | | PLMNs providing satellite | describe how the UE | | | NG-RAN. | determines whether a PLMN | | | | with MCC 9xx can be | | | PLMN procedures as defined | selected at the UE | | | in 3GPP TS 23.122 [3] | location or not. | | | are applied. If the UE | | | | receives an optional list | This solution is not | | | of MCCs from the AMF for | compatible with solution | | | use during subsequent PLMN | 2. | | | selection, the UE shall | | | | exclude PLMNs whose MCC is | | | | not present in the list | | | | received from the AMF, | | | | except for the | | | | shared/global PLMN. | | | | | | | | At the end of a time | | | | period, UE shall discard | | | | any list of MCCs received | | | | from the AMF. | | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
Questions for discussion:
1\. Should the UE configuration to aid the UE in determining which PLMNs are
allowed at the UE location be:
a) Configured in USIM; or
b) Provisioned in the UE (by means outside of scope of 3GPP)?
## 7.3 Evaluation of Solutions for Key Issue #3
Table 7.3-1: Evaluation of the solutions to KI#3
+----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | Solution | Summary | Evaluation | +==========+============================+============================+ | 4 | _How the UE selects PLMN | The HPLMN has the | | | if it is determined that | flexibility to assign | | | the UE is in an | different PLMN priorities | | | international area_ | inside international areas | | | | vs. outside international | | | > \- The UE determines | areas. | | | > that it is inside | | | | > international area as | The HPLMN has the | | | > per the solution to key | flexibility to designate | | | > issue #1. | some PLMNs as not allowed | | | > | to provide | | | > \- As implementation | | | | > option, upon a | service inside | | | > transition in and out of | international areas. | | | > international areas, the | | | | > UE may trigger a PLMN | The UE impact is the new | | | > selection. | USIM configuration. | | | > | | | | > \- UE selects a PLMN | This solution is not | | | > using legacy procedure, | compatible with Solution | | | > taking into account | 5. | | | > optional adiditonal | | | | > configuration in USIM | | | | > indicating if a PLMN is | | | | > allowed to provide | | | | > service inside | | | | > international areas. | | | | | | | | _What information could be | | | | available to aid the UE in | | | | the PLMN selection in | | | | international areas:_ | | | | | | | | > \- Optionally, the USIM | | | | > may carry adidtional | | | | > configuration indicating | | | | > if a PLMN is allowed to | | | | > provide service inside | | | | > international areas. | | | | > | | | | > \- Optionally, the USIM | | | | > may carry additional | | | | > configuration indicating | | | | > PLMN prioritization | | | | > inside international | | | | > areas, which could be | | | | > diferent from the | | | | > prioritization outside | | | | > international areas. | | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 5 | _How the UE selects PLMN | UE\'s presence inside | | | if it is determined that | international areas or the | | | the UE is in an | transition in/out of | | | international area_ | intenrtional areas has no | | | | impact on legacy PLMN | | | > The UE follows the | selection. | | | > legacy PLMN selection | | | | > procedure inside | The UE follows the legacy | | | > international areas. | PLMN selection procedure | | | | inside international | | | _What information could be | areas.\ | | | available to aid the UE in | The solution has no UE | | | the PLMN selection in | impact. | | | international areas_ | | | | | This solution is not | | | > None | compatible with Solution | | | | 4. | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
## 7.4 Evaluation of Solutions for Key Issue #4
Table 7.4-1: Evaluation of the solutions to KI#4
+----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | Solution | Summary | Evaluation | +==========+============================+============================+ | 6 | When the UE is performing | Solution 6 focuses on | | | periodic search for higher | adjusting the HP PLMN | | | priority PLMN, the UE | search rules in the legacy | | | should not eliminate any | PLMN selection procedure | | | candidate PLMN due to the | to be able to deal with | | | value of its MCC being | shared MCC 9xx, which is | | | different from the MCC of | currently not the case; | | | the serving PLMN if: | | | | | This solution is | | | 1) The candidate PLMN has | compatible with Solution 7 | | | a PLMN ID with shared MCC; | and incompatible with | | | or | Solution 21. | | | | | | | 2) The serving PLMN has a | | | | PLMN ID with shared MCC. | | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 7 | The UE follows the legacy | Solution 7 focuses on when | | | PLMN selection procedure. | a PLMN with shared MCC 9xx | | | | can be selected with | | | A shared/global PLMN ID | respect to the LI | | | can be selected if: | requirements. | | | | | | | > 1) the UE cannot | Whether scenario 1) and | | | > determine the country of | scenario 2) is OK needs | | | > its physical location | further discussion. | | | > (due to its physical | | | | > location in an | This solution is | | | > international area); | compatible with Solution 6 | | | > | and incompatible with | | | > 2) a PLMN belonging to | Solution 21. | | | > the country of the UE\'s | | | | > physical location is not | | | | > available or allowable | | | | > (i.e. if the UE is in a | | | | > situation where the LI | | | | > requirement cannot be | | | | > fulfilled); or | | | | > | | | | > 3) the UE can determine | | | | > the country of its | | | | > physical location and a | | | | > PLMN belonging to the | | | | > country of the UE\'s | | | | > physical location is | | | | > available and allowable, | | | | > but one or more | | | | > shared/global PLMN IDs | | | | > are allowed to be | | | | > selected from the | | | | > country according to | | | | > information provisioned | | | | > in the UE. | | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 21 | This solution envisage | It is not totally clear, | | | that for a multi-mode | from the solution, how the | | | handset with satellite | solution relates to KI#4. | | | radio capabilities, such | It appears that the | | | preset or user adjusted | solution ssumes that all | | | settings will exist. So a | PLMNs will deploy | | | satellite capable | satelltie access using MCC | | | multi-mode handset will | 9xx. As such, there is no | | | have means to set a | need for any special | | | preference for terrestrial | handling of MCC 9xx.\ | | | access or satellite | This solution is not | | | access. In this solution, | compatible with Solutions | | | use of such presets of | 6 and 7. | | | \"Terrestrial Access | | | | only\" or \"Terrestrial | | | | Access preferred/Satellite | | | | secondary\" or \"Satellite | | | | only\" or \"Satellite | | | | preferred/Terrestrial | | | | Access secondary\" will | | | | guide the UE\'s search for | | | | available PLMNs in the | | | | preferred radio | | | | technology. And if a UE is | | | | set to \"Satellite only\" | | | | or \"Satellite | | | | preferred\", then | | | | satellite radio/frequency | | | | bands will first be search | | | | before other modes. | | | | | | | | By separately looking for | | | | available PLMNs in | | | | dedicated radio access | | | | technology, the concern | | | | that terrestrial access | | | | PLMNs with share/global | | | | PLMN IDs might be mixed | | | | into the search and | | | | selection of satellite | | | | access PLMNs with | | | | shared/global PLMN IDs is | | | | avoided. | | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
Questions for discussion in the evalution phase:
1\. Can a PLMN deploy satellite access using MCC other than shared MCC 9xx?
2\. Can a PLMN with satellite access using shared MCC be selected whenever
there aren\'t any PLMNs with MCC corresponding to the country of UE location?
3\. Can a PLMN with satellite access using shared MCC be always selected
inside international area?
## 7.5 Evaluation of Solutions for Key Issue #5
The evaluation of the solution for Key Issue #5 has not been performed. The
Key Issue #5 was progressed directly to the conclusion.
## 7.6 Evaluation of Solutions for Key Issue #6
Key Issue #6 covers PLMN search for statellite access. The following are
expected to be studied within KI#6:
a) Whether there are different priority levels for available PLMNs in
satellite access?
b) Whether the periodic search for higher priority PLMNs in satellite access
is needed?
c) Whether the need to have a separate range of values for the search interval
for periodic search for higher priority PLMNs in satellite access; and
d) Whether the search for higher priority PLMN should be limited to PLMNs
where MCC matches the MCC or country of the RPLMN.
Four solutions have been proposed for KI#6, namely, solution#8, #13, #14 and
#17. These four solutions map to the above items a) to d) as follows:
Table 7.6-1
                 KI\#6, item a)   KI\#6, item b)   KI\#6, item c)   KI\#6, item d)
* * *
Solution#8 **X** **X**  
Solution#13 **X** Solution#14 **X** **X**  
Solution#17 **X**
Table 7.6-2: Evaluation of the solutions to KI#6
+----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | Solution | Solution description | Evaluation | +==========+============================+============================+ | 8 | This solution specifically | This solution does resolve | | | addresses item c) of KI#6 | KI#6 (item c) and item | | | and by its proposed | b)) | | | application also resolves | | | | item b) of KI#6. | SA1 in S1-210357/C1-212015 | | | | confirm that the current | | | Solution proposes for the | range of values for timer | | | range of values for the | T is sufficient for use in | | | timer guarding search for | satellite access.. | | | high priority PLMNs, a UE | | | | in satellite access is | Impacts to UE: none | | | considered as a non-NB-IoT | | | | UE as described in | Impacts to NW: none. | | | 3GPP TS 23.122 [3], | | | | clause 4.4.3.3.1. | No impacts to what is | | | | already specified for the | | | Because this solution | range and value of timer T | | | applies the current | in 3GPP TS 23.122 [3]. | | | defined values of T for UE | | | | in 3GPP satellite mode and | Solution#8 and | | | not differentiate use of | Solution#17 are | | | timer T or its value in | non-complementary. | | | satellite access this | | | | solution resolves KI#6 | | | | item b). | | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 13 | This solution specifically | This is the only solution | | | address item d) of KI#6. | that addresses KI#6 item | | | | d). | | | Solution consider the MCCs | | | | allowed from the UE\'s | Impacts to UE: Mapping of | | | location as a precondition | location to allowed MCCs. | | | instead of using MCC | Using the MCCs allowed | | | matches the MCC or country | from the UE\'s location | | | of the RPLMN as a | instead of MCC matches the | | | limitation for the search | MCC or country of the | | | for higher priority PLMN. | RPLMN | | | | | | | The search for higher | Impacts to NW: | | | priority PLMN should not | Configuration of or | | | be limited to PLMNs where | providing UE with allowed | | | MCC matches the MCC or | MCCs. | | | country of the RPLMN. | | | | | Specification impacts to | | | The search should also | 3GPP TS 23.122 [3], | | | include the PLMNs with | 3GPP TS 31.102 [9] and | | | MCCs that are allowed from | likely other TS. Such | | | the UE\'s location. The | impacts plus FFS of | | | MCCs allowed from the UE | Editor\'s notes might need | | | location are NW provided | involvement of other WGs. | | | or (pre)configured. UE | | | | does mapping between the | | | | UE location and MCC. | | | | | | | | The mapped to MCCs are | | | | then considered along with | | | | the prioitised entries of | | | | the EF files of | | | | HPLMN/EHPLMN/EPLMN. | | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 14 | This solution specifically | This solution resolves | | | addresses item a) and item | KI#6 (item a) and item | | | b) of KI#6. | b)) and is the only | | | | solution for KI#6 item | | | Following from having just | a). | | | one generic access | | | | technology identifier and | SA1 in S1-210357/C1-212015 | | | as it prioritization can | confirm that the current | | | then be set in the | range of values for timer | | | PLMN/Access technology | T is sufficient for use in | | | combination for the | satellite access. | | | different access | | | | technologies that can | Impacts to UE: other than | | | connect to 5GCN, the same | the introduction of the | | | existing mechanisms of in | new generic access | | | 3GPP TS 23.122 [3] to | technology identifier , | | | resolve prioritization of | none. | | | PLMNs, thus resolving item | | | | d) of KI#6 | Impacts to NW: none. | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 17 | This solution specifically | This solution resolves | | | addresses item c) of | item c) of KI#6. | | | KI#6. | | | | | This solution goes beyond | | | UE uses a scaling factor | what SA1 indicates in | | | to increase the periodic | S1-210357/C1-212015. | | | search timer T by it when | | | | searching for higher | Impacts to UE: new scaling | | | priority PLMNs only | factor for value of timer | | | available via satellite | T. decision on when to | | | NG-RAN access. | apply scaling factor. | | | | | | | The scaling factor can be | Impacts to NW -- AMF, UDM, | | | configured in the ME or | provisioning system. | | | USIM. Alternatively, the | | | | scaling factor may be | Impacts to | | | provisioned by the HPLMN | 3GPP TS 23.122 [3] | | | via steering of roaming | needed in the | | | procedures. | determination of value of | | | | timer T, procedures | | | | covering search for higher | | | | priority PLMNs and to SoR | | | | procedures. | | | | | | | | Solution#17 and | | | | Solution#8 are | | | | non-complementary. | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
## 7.7 Evaluation of Solutions for Key Issue #7
Key issue #7 \" Emergency calls \" identifies the following issue in clause
5.7:
\- What modifications in automatic PLMN selection mode are necessary for a UE
using satellite access unable to obtain normal service from a PLMN?
There are two candidate solutions for this key issue. The evalution of these
solutions is as follows.
Table 7.7-1: Evaluation of the solutions to KI#7
+----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | Solution | Solution Summary | Evaluation | +==========+============================+============================+ | 16 | When a UE needs to camp on | Both solutions cover the | | | an acceptable cell with | UE behavior of camping on | | | \"satellite NG-RAN\" | an acceptable cell with | | | access technology, it | the consideration of the | | | checks whether a candidate | PLMN ID, according to the | | | cell belongs to a PLMN | solution to KI#1 and | | | allowed in the country | KI#2. They are compatible | | | where the UE is physically | in the situations the UE | | | located, according to the | is unable to find a | | | solution to Key Issues #1 | suitable cell to camp on | | | and #2. | or receiving a | | | | REGISTRATION REJECT with | | | | the cause \"PLMN not | | | | allowed to operate at the | | | | present UE location\". | | | | | | | | The two solutions are not | | | | compatible in the | | | | following situations: | | | | | | | | - USIM not inserted; | | | | | | | | - Receiving a | | | | REGISTRATION REJECT with a | | | | cause other than \"PLMN | | | | not allowed to operate at | | | | the present UE location\". | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 18 | When a UE needs to camp on | | | | an acceptable cell with | | | | \"satellite NG-RAN\" | | | | access technology, it | | | | distinguishes the | | | | situations: | | | | | | | | - When unable to find a | | | | suitable cell to camp on | | | | or receiving a | | | | REGISTRATION REJECT with | | | | the cause \"PLMN not | | | | allowed to operate at the | | | | present UE location\", it | | | | may camp on an acceptable | | | | cell according to the | | | | solution to Key Issues #1 | | | | and #2; | | | | | | | | - When receiving a | | | | REGISTRATION REJECT with a | | | | cause other than \"PLMN | | | | not allowed to operate at | | | | the present UE location\", | | | | it may camp on an | | | | acceptable cell of the | | | | selected PLMN; | | | | | | | | - When the USIM is not | | | | inserted, it may camp on | | | | an acceptable cell | | | | irrespective of the PLMN | | | | identity, without | | | | modifying the behaviour. | | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
Questions for discussion:
1\. Should the UE with USIM not inserted behave (i.e. select a PLMN to camp on
in the limited state) the same as the UE with USIM inserted when camping on an
acceptable cell with \"satellite NG-RAN\" access technology?
# 8 Conclusion
## 8.1 Conclusion for key issue 1
There are no conclusions for this key issue.
## 8.2 Conclusion for key issue 2
KI#2 on PLMN search resulting from network informing the UE that NW is unable
to provide service to UE\'s physical location has the following study points:
a) how the UE determines which PLMN(s) can be selected in determined country
of its physical location (if it is determined that the UE is not in an
international area);
b) what information could be available to the UE to help in selecting, in a
given country, a PLMN whose CN is physically located in the same country as
the UE:
pre-configured in the UE; and
provided by PLMN.
In the normative phase, for study point a), when the UE is rejected by the NW
with the indication \"PLMN not allowed to operate at the present UE
location\", the UE shall enter PLMN selection procedures detailed in 3GPP TS
23.122 [3], sublause 4.4.3.1 on \"At switch on or recovery from lack of
coverage\" but with the following additional requirements:-
1) the PLMN that provide the reject cause \"PLMN not allowed to operate at the
present UE location\" shall not be considered as a candidate for PLMN
selection for satellite NG-RAN access. The scope and duration that this PLMN
is considered as not allowed for NTN access will be dealt with in normative
phase; and
2) if NW has provided an indication of the country of UE location in the form
of one or more MCCs, and the HPLMN has configured the UE to take the network
indicated information into account, then the UE should consider PLMN of the
same country -- as defined in 3GPP TS 23.122 [3] \- as the indicated MCCs, or
PLMNs with a shared MCC as defined in ITU-T E.212 [6] clause F.6, as
candidates for satellite NG-RAN access for PLMN selection.
For study point b), with regards to information to assist the UE in selecting
in a given country, PLMNs whose CN is physically located in same country as
the UE:-
\- no locally pre-configured information and mappings in the UE that
negatively bias operator and user PLMN selection rules and prioitization (such
as deprioitising the entries in the User Controlled PLMN selector and Operator
Controlled PLMN selector lists) as set out in 3GPP TS 22.011 [11] clause 3.2,
shall be progressed in normative phase; and
\- only the AMF provided information as detailed in SA2\'s CR in S2-2101667
shall be progressed in normative phase.
## 8.3 Conclusion for key issue 3
Key issue 3 was about PLMN selection in international areas.
The following is the list of the issues studied in this key issue and the
respective conclusions for the normative phase:
a) how the UE selects PLMN if it is determined that the UE is in an
international area; and
b) what information could be available to aid in PLMN selection in
international areas:
\- pre-configured in the UE; and
\- provided by PLMN.
For a), the following conclusion is adopted to proceed to the normative phase:
\- As implementation option, upon a transition in and out of international
areas, the UE may trigger a PLMN selection.
For b), no conclusions have been agreed to proceed to the normative phase in
Release 17.
## 8.4 Conclusion for key issue 4
Key issue 4 was about Handling of shared/global PLMN IDs.
The following is the list of the issues studied in this key issue and the
respective conclusions for the normative phase:
a) what modifications are needed to the PLMN selection procedure to handle
shared/global PLMN IDs
b) should these changes also apply to the legacy PLMN selection procedure;
c) what information could be available to aid in handling shared/global PLMN
IDs:
▪ pre-configured in the UE; and
▪ provided by PLMN; and
d) how to accommodate LI requirements when handling shared/global PLMN IDs.
For a), the following conclusion is adopted:
When the UE is performing periodic search for higher priority PLMN, the UE
should not eliminate any candidate PLMN due to the value of its MCC not
representing the same country as the MCC of the serving PLMN if:
1) The candidate PLMN has a PLMN ID with shared MCC; or
2) The serving PLMN has a PLMN ID with shared MCC.
For b), the changes should apply to non-terrestrial access only.
For c), no information needs to be pre-configured in the UE or provided by the
PLMN to aid in handling of shared/global PLMN ID within the scope of key issue
4.
NOTE: Information may be provided to the UE as part of the solutions to other
key issues.
For d), no solution is needed under key issue 4. This issue is handled under
key issue 2.
## 8.5 Conclusion for key issue 5
The following is the list of the issues studied in this key issue and the
respective conclusions for the normative phase:
a) what is the prioritization of the new RAT and how it is implemented in the
PLMN selection procedure; and
b) what information is configured in the UE related to RAT prioritization.
For a), the following conclusion is adopted:
\- Satellite NG-RAN is defined as a new radio access technology for PLMN
selection.
For b) the following conclusion is adopted:
\- New Access Technology Identifier in the appropriate EF files in USIM (under
the responsibility of CT6).
## 8.6 Conclusion for key issue 6
KI#6 on PLMN search for satellite access has the following study points:-
a) Whether there are different priority levels for available PLMNs in
satellite access?
b) Whether the periodic search for higher priority PLMNs in satellite access
is needed? and
c) Whether the need to have a separate range of values for the search interval
for periodic search for higher priority PLMNs in satellite access.
d) Whether the search for higher priority PLMN should be limited to PLMNs
where MCC matches the MCC or country of the RPLMN.
For study point a),
\- Other than CT6\'s responsibilities for introducing an access technology
identifier to for satellite NG-RAN, and the use of this new access technology
identifier in CT1 TSes, no normative work is needed by CT1.
For study point b),
\- Yes, periodic search for higher priority PLMNs in satellite access is
needed. In normative phase, requirements for periodic search for higher
priority PLMNs in satellite access will be introduced to 3GPP TS 23.122 [3].
For study point c),
\- A new range of values for the search interval for periodic search for
higher priority PLMNs in satellite access is not needed. No normative work is
needed other than documenting the resuse of existing ranges for timer T to be
used for satellite access.
For study point d),
\- Only solution#13 covers this study point d). However, solution#13 has
outstanding Editor\'s notes, leaving the proposed solution unclear.
\- In normative phase, no solution for study point d) will be pursued and thus
the search for higher priority PLMN will remain as it is currently specified
in 3GPP TS 23.122 [3].
NOTE: The search for higher priorityPLMNs when UE is in coverage of only
shared/global PLMNs is handled under KI#4. Any conclusion requiring normative
work for that serach for higher priority PLMNs is to be documented under
conclusions for KI#4.
## 8.7 Conclusion for key issue 7
For this Key issue, SA1 provided a guidance by SA1 LS reply (S1-211319) as
follows:
The UE should first determine a most suitable PLMN based on its own physical
location determination. As there may be border cases where the UE cannot
determine sufficiently accurate or sufficiently precise in which country it
is, the UE may also still attempt to obtain (emergency) services from a PLMN
that according to the UE is not allowed to operate in the country of the UE\'s
location. If the PLMN indicates it is not allowed to operate in the country of
the UE\'s location, the UE should not (re)-attempt emergency calls.
Based on the above requirements, the following conclusions are adopted:
\- If a PLMN indicates it is not allowed to operate in the country of the
UE\'s location, the UE should not (re)-attempt emergency calls in that PLMN.
\- Otherwise, if the UE is unable to obtain normal services from any PLMN, the
UE may attempt to obtain emergency services from any available PLMN.
#