# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document comprises the Technical Report for the Characterization
of the 3GPP Audio Codecs, Enhanced aacPlus (_Eaac+_) and Extended AMR-WB
(_AMR-WB+_), standardized by 3GPP in Release 6 for Packet-switched Streaming
Service (PSS), Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS), Multimedia Broadcast and
Multicast Service (MBMS), and IMS Messaging Service and Presence Service.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] ITU-R Recommendation BS.1534-1 (2003): \"Method for the subjective
assessment of intermediate quality level of coding systems\".
[2] ISO/IEC JTC1/SC29/WG11/N5571 (2003): \"Report on Informal MPEG-4 Extension
1 (Bandwidth Extension) Verification Tests\".
[3] Tech 3296 (2003): \"EBU Subjective listening tests on low bit-rate audio
codecs\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.273: \"ANSI-C code for the fixed-point Extended Adaptive Multi-
Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB+) speech codec\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.290: \"Audio codec processing functions; Extended Adaptive
Multi-Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB+) codec; Transcoding functions\".
[6] 3GPP TS 26.410: \"General audio codec audio processing functions; Enhanced
aacPlus general audio codec; Floating-point ANSI-C code\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.411: \"General audio codec audio processing functions; Enhanced
aacPlus general audio codec; Fixed-point ANSI-C code\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ACR Absolute Category Rating method
AMR-WB+ Extended AMR-WB
BLER Block Error Rate
DCR Degradation Category Rating method
DMOS Degradation Mean Opinion Score
Eaac+ Enhanced aacPlus
EBU European Broadcasting Union
EGPRS Enhanced General Packet Radio Service
FEC Forward Error Correction
FER Frame Error Rate
HRTF Head Related Transfer Function
ISF Internal Sampling Frequency
ITU-T International Telecommunications Union - Telecommunications
MBMS Multi-media Broadcast and Multicast Services
MMS Multi-media Messaging Service
MOS Mean Opinion Score
MPEG Moving Picture Experts Group
MUSHRA Multiple Stimulus with Hidden Reference and Anchors method
PLR Packet Loss Rate
PSS Packet-switched Streaming Service
ROHC Robust Header Compression
RTP Real-time transport protocol
RLC-PDU Radio Link Control - Protocol Data Unit
SEAQ System for the Evaluation of Audio Quality
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 Subjective test results
The main body of the present document summarizes the results from official
tests conducted by 3GPP.
Further subjective test results were provided into the standardization process
by various parties. Some of these results were part of the verification tasks.
Two other contributions from codec proponents assessing the codecs across
different bit rates in the low rate segment up to 24 kbps were provided in
earlier phases of the process and are also attached to the present document
(see S4-040439 and S4-040710 in attachment \"TR 26.936 Annex B2 Additional
Documents.zip\").
In addition, there are further reports from other bodies. Clause A.1 comprises
test results for the two standardized codecs carried out by ITU-T, where the
3GPP audio codecs served as reference codecs. The Annex also contains
references to tests on Eaac+ carried out in MPEG and EBU, which provide
information for configurations using the Eaac+ decoder in combination with a
non-standardized encoder.
In the reporting of subjective test results, it is generally agreed that
comparisons of results are valid only for conditions conducted within the same
experiment. It is not valid, for example, to directly or statistically compare
subjective test results for one codec across two bit-rates when those results
have been obtained from different experiments. In general, this principle will
be observed in the subjective test results presented in the following clauses.
## 4.1 Organization of the subjective test results
This report comprises data from subjective tests derived from standardization
exercises organized in 3GPP. Each of the test exercises was conducted in
accordance with a test plan and results were provided in a test report. Table
1 summarizes these test exercises including a series label, a description of
the tests, and the specific Attachments containing the appropriate test plans
and test reports.
Table 1: Subjective Test Series involved in the Technical Report
* * *
Standardization exercise Label Test plan Test report 3GPP audio codec
characterization test, phase 1 CT-P1 Attachment 1A Attachment 1B 3GPP audio
codec characterization test, phase 2 CT-P2 Attachment 1A Attachment 1C 3GPP
audio codec low rate selection test ST-LR Attachment 1D Attachment 1E 3GPP
audio codec high rate selection test ST-HR Attachment 1F Attachment 1G
* * *
Table 2 lists the subjective tests that provided the results reported in the
present document including details such as the test parameters, mode (mono vs.
stereo), and number of listening labs. All of the subjective tests described
in this report involved some common test parameters. These include the use of
15 subjects and 12 test items where the test items are sub-divided into three
classes of Audio Content - four items each for Music-only, Speech-only, and
Mixed Music+Speech audio content. All experiments in CT-P1 and CT-P2 used the
same 12 items of material. The ST-LR tests used 24 items in each experiment,
but the test items were split into two sets of 12 test items and allocated
across to different labs running the same experiment. All experiments in ST-HR
used the same 12 test items.
Table 2: Summary of subjective tests involved in the Technical Report
* * *
Series Test parameter(s) Mode # Labs CT-P1 3 bit-rates mono 2 3 bit-rates
stereo 2 CT-P2 4 PLR\'s, EGPRS mono 1 4 PLR\'s, EGPRS stereo 1 3 PLR\'s, UTRAN
- Lower rates stereo 1 3 PLR\'s, UTRAN - Higher rates stereo 1 ST-LR 14 kbps,
PSS mono 4 18 kbps, PSS stereo 4 24 kbps, PSS mono 4 24 kbps, PSS stereo 4 14
kbps, MMS, 16 kHz sampling rate mono 4 18 kbps, MMS stereo 4 14 kbps, PSS, 3 %
FER mono 4 24 kbps, MMS, 3 % FER stereo 4 ST-HR 32 kbps, PSS stereo 2 48 kbps,
PSS stereo 2 32 kbps, PSS, 1 % and 3 % FER stereo 2
* * *
It should be noted that, for both audio codecs, the codecs used in the
Characterization Test (i.e. CT-P1 and CT-P2 test series) were different (e.g.,
bug fixes, optimized configurations) from the candidate codecs used in the
earlier Selection Test (i.e. ST-LR and ST-HR test series).
The Selection test results also provide information how the selected codecs
perform in relation to Release 5 audio codecs.
The clauses of the present document are organized as follows:
  * Clause 5: Performance Characterization for Audio Content:
\- This clause comprises a quality evaluation of the codecs across audio
content. It contains results from codec characterization both without and with
packet loss. It also contains a similar evaluation from the selection tests.
  * Clause 6: Performance Characterization over Bit-rate:
\- This clause comprises the test results from codec characterization
assessing the performance of the codecs across bit rate. It highlights quality
vs. bit-rate in the lower bit-rate range. This clause contains relevant data
for PSS, MBMS and MMS services.
  * Clause 7: Performance based on Selection test results:
\- This clause comprises test results from the codec selection tests
demonstrating the performance of the selected codecs relative to that of
reference codecs (including audio and wideband speech codecs specified in
Release 5). It covers an intrinsic quality comparison of the codecs and a
quality comparison under stressed operating conditions in a lower bit-rate
segment up to 24 kbps. The intrinsic quality comparison was designed to target
PSS applications without channel impairments, and the stressed operating
conditions contained terminal-generated MMS scenarios and PSS with channel
impairments. Also included are high-rate codec selection results for a higher
bit-rate segment assessing the performance of the _Eaac+_ codec relative to
reference codecs at 32 kbps and 48 kbps. These tests were targeting PSS and
MMS applications and did not include _AMR-WB+_ codec.
  * Clause 8: Performance Characterization for Error Conditions:
\- This clause comprises the test results from codec characterization
assessing the codec performance for various packet loss rates. The tests used
the RTP packetization schemes specified for MBMS services as well as a packet
loss simulator designed for such purposes. This clause is relevant for the
design of application layer FEC and the definition of target BLER for MBMS
services without FEC.
  * Clause 9: Results of Verification Tests:
\- This clause comprises results from codec verification tasks which checked
and assessed various codec aspects such as complexity, verification of the
fixed point code, frequency response, delay, codec performance with 3D audio
signals, rate switching performance, and content dependency.
  * Annex A: Test results from other bodies:
\- Annex A includes test results carried out by ITU-T, where the two 3GPP
audio codecs participated as reference codecs. These results consist of two
parts, one part obtained by MUSHRA testing of music and mixed material, the
other part obtained by MOS and DMOS testing (ACR and DCR) using speech
material. The Annex also contains references to tests on _Eaac+_ carried out
in bodies outside of 3GPP, which provide information for configurations using
the _Eaac+_ decoder in combination with a non-standardized encoder.
All the results shown in the present document are generally valid for all
Release 6 services and applications which are based on the Release 6 audio
codecs. These are Packet switched Streaming Service (PSS), Multimedia
Messaging Service (MMS), Multimedia Broadcast and Multicast Service (MBMS),
IMS Messaging Service and Presence Service. During codec selection certain
tests were designed to target a specific application, but are generally valid
for all applications with similar constraints (e.g. bit-rate, mono/stereo).
The only exception is terminal-generated MMS for which tests with reduced
input signal bandwidth were carried out (restricted to 16 kHz sampling rate in
some tests as reported in clauses 5.3 and 7.2) and for which a particularly
low-complexity encoder for _AMR‑WB +_ was used (9.75k-lc in the results
reported in clause 6).
## 4.2 Subjective test method
The subjective test results described in the present document were derived
using the MUSHRA (**MU** ltiple **S** timulus with **H** idden **R** eference
and **A** nchors) test methodology. The MUSHRA method is an ITU-R standardized
test methodology for the subjective assessment of intermediate audio quality
[1]. On each trial in a MUSHRA test the subject is presented with an
unprocessed audio sample - the \"Open Reference\" (OR). By definition the
quality of the OR is a score of 100 on the MUSHRA quality scale. The
subjects\' task is to then evaluate the quality of the same audio sample
processed by each of the conditions involved in the test as well as the
unprocessed condition, the Hidden Reference (HR), and two or more degraded
Anchor conditions, typically low-pass filtered at 3.5 kHz and low-pass
filtered at 7.0 kHz.
Figure 1 shows an example of a subject\'s response interface for a typical
MUSHRA trial involving nine audio conditions. The subject is required to
listen, first, to the OR (**_Ref_** button in the figure) and then to each of
the test conditions (buttons **_A_** through **_I_** in the figure). The
assignment of test conditions is randomized among the buttons for each trial.
Subjects register their ratings, 1 to 100, using the scale sliders above each
button. The subject\'s task is to identify the HR condition and give it a
rating of 100 and then to rate the remainder of the conditions relative to the
HR condition. Subjects may listen to the samples as many times as they want
and adjust their ratings accordingly. Subject\'s ratings are used in test
analyses only if the subject can reliably identify the HR and correctly order
the anchors and the HR.
{width="5.270138888888889in" height="3.7104166666666667in"}
Figure 1: Example MUSHRA response interface
# 5 Performance Characterization for Audio Content
Results were extracted from three series of MUSHRA tests to characterize the
3GPP audio codecs for three different classes of audio content -- Music,
Speech, and Mixed Music+Speech. Each of the MUSHRA tests described in the
present document involved 12 test items, four items each for Music, Speech,
and Mixed audio content.
## 5.1 Results from characterization phase 1
Figures 2 and 3 shows results from the experiments conducted in the CT-P1 test
series. The Mean scores and 95 % Confidence Intervals shown in the figures are
based on scores for two labs, 15 listeners, and four test-items per class of
audio content (N = 2 × 15 × 4 = 120 votes).
Figure 2: Audio Content for audio codecs across bit-rates (mono mode)
{width="5.844444444444444in" height="3.170138888888889in"}
Figure 3: Audio content for audio codecs across bit-rates (stereo mode)
## 5.2 Results from Characterization phase 2
Results in this clause were derived in experiments containing packet losses.
Bit-rates mentioned in figures 4 to 7 represent gross bit-rates including
packetization overhead. Further information about how the packet loss
conditions were defined, can be found in clause 8.
Figures 4 and 5 show results for audio content for the tests conducted in the
CT-P2 test series for EGPRS under conditions of PLR. Figure 4 shows results
for mono mode and figure 5 for stereo mode. The Mean scores and 95 %
Confidence Intervals shown in the figure are based on scores for 15 listeners
and four test-items per class of audio content (N = 15 × 4 = 60 votes).
{width="5.225in" height="3.1319444444444446in"}
Figure 4: Audio content for audio codecs across PLR (EGPRS mono mode)
(Bit-rates given are gross rates including packetization overhead)
{width="5.199305555555555in" height="3.075in"}
Figure 5: Audio content for audio codecs across PLR (EGPRS stereo mode)
(Bit-rates given are gross rates including packetization overhead)
Figures 6 and 7 show results for audio content for the tests conducted in the
CT-P2 test series for UTRAN, stereo mode under conditions of PLR. Figure 6
shows results for lower bit-rates (_AMR-WB+_ at 20 kbps and _Eaac+_ at 32
kbps) and figure 7 for higher bit-rate (both codecs at 40 kbps). The Mean
scores and 95 % Confidence Intervals shown in the figure are based on scores
for 15 listeners and four test-items per class of audio content (N = 15 × 4 =
60 votes).
{width="4.358333333333333in" height="2.995833333333333in"}
Figure 6: Audio content for audio codecs across PLR (UTRAN stereo mode)
(Bit-rates given are gross rates including packetization overhead)
{width="4.3277777777777775in" height="3.0in"}
Figure 7: Audio content for audio codecs across PLR (UTRAN stereo mode)
(Bit-rates given are gross rates including packetization overhead)
## 5.3 Results from Selection Test
Figure 8 summarizes results for a subset of four MUSHRA experiments conducted
in the selection series of tests (ST‑LR), each experiment involving the two
audio codecs for the PSS application. Results are shown for each of the two
audio codecs in each of four MUSHRA tests for the three classes of Audio
Content. The results shown in figure 8 are based on votes from 15 subjects for
four test-items per class of audio content in each of four listening labs (N =
15 × 4 × 4 = 240 votes). In general, these results show that _AMR-WB+_ scores
better for Speech content, relatively worse for Music content, with Mixed
content between those values. On the other hand, _Eaac+_ scores better for
Music content, worse for Speech content, with Mixed content between those
values.
{width="6.836805555555555in" height="2.8513888888888888in"}
Figure 8: Results for four ST-LR tests (intrinsic quality) by class of audio
content
Figure 9 summarizes results for a second subset of four ST-LR, two experiments
for the MMS application without frame errors and two for the PSS application
with 3 % frame errors. For the 14 kbps MMS case, the input and output sampling
rate was restricted to 16 kHz. Results are shown for each of the two audio
codecs in each of four MUSHRA tests for the three classes of Audio Content.
{width="6.872916666666667in" height="2.854861111111111in"}
Figure 9: Results for four ST-LR tests (stressed operating conditions) by
class of audio content
It can be observed from figures 4 to 9 that Extended AMR-WB tends to perform
relatively better for speech than for music, while Enhanced aacPlus tends to
perform relatively better for music than for speech.
The duration of a transmission frame in AMR-WB+ depends on the Internal
Sampling Frequency. In the codec used in the selection phase, 20 ms
transmission frames were used. Thus, frame errors correspond to 20 ms frames
being lost. A transmission frame in Eaac+ corresponds to 2048 samples. Thus,
frame errors at 48 kHz sampling rate correspond to 23.4 ms portions of signal
being lost. Note that these frame error rates are different from packet loss
rates since a packet may contain one or more frames, depending on the
packetization scenario.
# 6 Performance characterization over bit-rate
Results from two experiments conducted in the CT-P1 series of tests contribute
to the performance characterization of coding bit-rate for the two selected
3GPP audio codecs.
Figure 10 shows MUSHRA results from the CT-P1 test series for mono mode. These
results are based on the MUSHRA ratings of 15 subjects, 12 test items, and two
listening labs (N = 15 × 12 × 2 = 360). The experiment was designed to
evaluate the performance of two audio codecs across bit-rates in a mono
application. The figure shows average MUSHRA scores for _AMR-WB+_ at coding
rates of 9.75 kbps, 15.2 kbps and 19 kbps (which were suitable configurations
of AMR-WB+ for the target bit-rates of 10 kbps, 16 kbps and 20kbps) plus a
low-complexity mode at 9.75 kbps and for _Eaac+_ at coding rates of 10 kbps,
16 kbps and 20 kbps. Also shown are the Mean MUSHRA scores for the three
Anchor conditions - Low Pass 3.5 kHz, Low Pass 7 kHz, and the Hidden
Reference. In addition to the Mean scores, the figure shows error brackets for
each condition indicating the 95 % Confidence Intervals. The Mean scores and
95 % Confidence Intervals are based on 360 votes as indicated above. The
results in figure 10 confirm that, for both audio codecs, MUSHRA performance
increases with increases in bit-rate. Furthermore, at 9.75 kbps, the low
complexity version of _AMR-WB+_ (9.75-lc in the figure) scored significantly
lower than the standard version. Except for the low complexity version of
_AMR-WB+_ , figure10 shows that _AMR-WB+_ achieves a better performance that
_Eaac+_ at all tested bit-rates. Moreover, both codecs show a consistent
increase in quality with growing bit-rate.
{width="5.090277777777778in" height="2.9229166666666666in"}
Figure 10: MUSHRA results for _AMR-WB+_ and _Eaac+_ across bit-rates (mono
mode)
Figure 11 shows MUSHRA results from the CT-P1 test series for stereo
applications. These results are similar to those in figure 10 except the audio
codecs and anchor conditions were tested in stereo mode. The figure shows Mean
MUSHRA scores with 95 % Confidence Intervals for _AMR-WB+_ at coding rates of
14.25 kbps, 20 kbps and 27 kbps (which were suitable configurations of AMR-WB+
for the target bit-rates of 16 kbps, 21 kbps and 28 kbps) and for _Eaac+_ at
coding rates of 16 kbps, 21 kbps and 28 kbps. Also shown are the scores for
three stereo Anchor conditions - Low Pass 3.5 kHz, Low Pass 7 kHz, and the
Hidden Reference. As in figure 10, the Mean scores and 95 % confidence
Intervals are based on 360 votes. Figure 11 shows that both codecs perform
relatively similar at all tested bit-rates. Both codecs show a consistent
quality increase with growing bit rate.
{width="4.919444444444444in" height="3.145138888888889in"}
Figure 11: MUSHRA results for _AMR-WB+_ and _Eaac+_ across bit-rates (stereo
mode)
# 7 Performance based on Selection Tests
The MUSHRA results presented in this clause for the application/service
specific experiments were conducted in the Selection Test, ST-LR and ST-HR
test series. Moreover, the Selection Test experiments involved earlier
versions of the two audio codecs, _AMR-WB+_ and _Eaac+_.
## 7.1 Intrinsic quality comparison in lower bit-rate range (up to 24 kbps)
Four MUSHRA experiments were conducted in the ST-LR series of tests which
characterize the intrinsic performance of the two 3GPP Release 6 audio codecs.
Figures 12 to 15 show the results of these experiments. Each experiment
involved the two 3GPP Release 6 audio codecs plus two reference codecs, _AMR-
WB_ and _AAC_ , operating at a common bit-rate. Each experiment was conducted
in four listening labs. The results shown in figures 12 to 15 are based on the
MUSHRA ratings of 15 subjects, 12 test items per experiment (2 different test
sets used in 2 labs each), and four listening labs (N = 15 × 12 × 4 = 720).
Two experiments were conducted to evaluate the performance of the audio codecs
for PSS applications in mono mode, two experiments in stereo mode, and two
experiments with 3 % FER.
Figures 12 and 13 show the results for the PSS application in mono mode at
coding rates of 14 kbps and 24 kbps, respectively. For the PSS application in
mono mode, _AMR-WB+_ scores higher than _Eaac+_ at 14 kbps (62.6 vs. 51.5) but
lower at 24 kbps (67.4 vs. 75.8).
* * *
{width="3.0993055555555555in" height="2.3979166666666667in"}
{width="3.088888888888889in" height="2.401388888888889in"} Figure 12: Results
at 14 kpbs for PSS (mono) Figure 13: Results at 24 kbps for PSS (mono)
* * *
Figures 14 and 15 show the results for the PSS application in stereo mode at
coding rates of 18 kbps and 24 kbps, respectively. For the PSS application in
stereo mode, _AMR-WB+_ scores higher than _Eaac+_ at 18 kbps (55.6 vs. 53.3)
but lower at 24 kbps (61.3 vs. 67.1).
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="3.1in" | | height="2.3944444444444444in"} | height="2.3944444444444444in"} | | | | | | > NOTE: For this stereo | | | > experiments there are three | | | > anchor conditions: | | | | | | _lp3500 (s12):_ original signal | | | low-pass filtered at 3.5 kHz, | | | stereo image reduced by 12 dB; | | | | | | _lp7000 (s12):_ original signal | | | low-pass filtered at 7.0 kHz, | | | stereo image reduced by 12 dB; | | | | | | _lp7000 (s6):_ original signal | | | low-pass filtered at 7.0 kHz, | | | stereo image reduced by 6 dB. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Figure 14: Results at 18 kpbs | Figure 15: Results at 24 kbps | | for PSS (stereo) | for PSS (stereo) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## 7.2 Quality comparison under stressed operating conditions at lower bit-
rates (up to 24 kbps)
Four MUSHRA experiments were conducted in the ST-LR series of tests that
characterize the performance of the two 3GPP audio codecs under stressed
operating conditions. Each experiment involved the two 3GPP Release 6 audio
codecs plus two reference codecs, _AMR-WB_ and _AAC_ , operating at a common
bit-rate for the MMS application and each experiment was conducted in four
listening labs. The results shown are based on the MUSHRA ratings of 15
subjects, 12 test items per experiment (2 different test sets used in 2 labs
each), and four listening labs (N = 15 × 12 × 4 = 720).
Figures 16 and 17 show the results for the PSS application for 3 % FER - mono
mode at 14 kbps and stereo mode at 24 kbps, respectively. In the context of
this test, the error conditions were simulated by applying a random frame
erasure rate (FER) of 3 % to both codecs. Both codecs out-perform the
reference codecs by a wide margin when operated under error conditions and
show a pattern of behaviour, relative to each other, which is similar to that
under unimpaired channel conditions.
* * *
{width="3.089583333333333in" height="2.3958333333333335in"}
{width="3.088888888888889in" height="2.3965277777777776in"} Figure 16: Results
at 14 kbps mono, 3 % FER Figure 17: Results at 24 kbps stereo, 3 % FER
* * *
Figure 18 shows the results for the terminal-generated MMS application, mono
mode at 14 kbps and figure 19 shows the results for stereo at 18kbps. Both
experiments used the low complexity encoder.
* * *
{width="3.109027777777778in" height="2.3979166666666667in"}
{width="3.089583333333333in" height="2.3993055555555554in"} Figure 18: Results
at 14 kbps for MMS (mono) Figure 19: Results at 18 kbps for MMS (stereo)
* * *
For the MMS application in mono mode at 14 kbps, _AMR-WB+_ scores higher than
_Eaac+_ (50.7 vs. 44.4). However, for the MMS application in stereo mode at 24
kbps, _Eaac+_ scores higher than _AMR-WB+_ (50.7 vs. 55.7). It should be noted
that the MMS test at 14 kbps mono was conducted using samples that were
sample-rate limited to 16 kHz.
## 7.3 Performance evaluation in higher bit-rate range (up to 48 kbps)
Three MUSHRA experiments were conducted in the ST-HR series of tests designed
to characterize the intrinsic performance of one of the two 3GPP Release 6
audio codecs, Eaac+, at higher bit-rates. Figures 20 to 22 show the results of
these experiments. Each experiment involved the _Eaac+_ audio codec plus _AAC
as a reference codec both codecs_ operating at a common bit-rate and each
experiment was conducted in two listening labs. The results shown are based on
the MUSHRA ratings of 15 subjects, 12 test items, and two listening labs (N =
15 × 12 × 2 = 360). Two test evaluated the intrinsic performance of _Eaac+_ ,
the third test evaluated error performance, again using random audio frame
losses. It can be concluded that _Eaac+_ out-performs the reference codec by a
wide margin under both unimpaired and error conditions.
* * *
{width="3.079861111111111in" height="2.2006944444444443in"}
{width="3.196527777777778in" height="2.1659722222222224in"} Figure 20: MUSHRA
results at 32 kbps (stereo) Figure 21: MUSHRA results at 48 kbps (stereo)
* * *
{width="3.8631944444444444in" height="2.7618055555555556in"}
Figure 22: MUSHRA results at 32 kbps with 3 % errors (stereo)
# 8 Performance characterization for error conditions
This clause comprises the test results from codec characterization assessing
the codec performance for various packet loss rates. This clause is relevant
for the design of application layer FEC and the definition of target BLER for
PSS and MBMS services. The chosen test cases do not imply that the codecs
should be operated under all the tested packet loss rates.
The bit-rates mentioned in this clause are **gross** rates, which include
packetization overhead. The performance relative to bit-rate and PLR depends
on the chosen packetization and interleaving configuration. All packet loss
rates mentioned in this context refer to RLC-PDU packet loss rates. Details on
packetization, interleaving configurations and source bit-rates can be found
in attachments S4-050453 for _AMR-WB+,_ S4-050544 for _Eaac+_ and S4-060099
for both codecs (in \"TR 26.936 Annex B2 Additional Documents.zip\").
Results from the CT-P2 series of subjective tests contribute to the
performance characterization of the two 3GPP audio codecs under error
conditions expressed in terms of percent Packet Loss Rate (PLR). In all, four
MUSHRA experiments were conducted in the CT-P2 series -- two tests for
Enhanced General Packet Radio Service (EGPRS), one in mono mode and one in
stereo mode; two tests for under UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(UTRAN), one in stereo mode at relatively lower bit-rates and one in stereo
mode at relatively higher bit-rates.
Figure 23 shows MUSHRA results for the two 3GPP audio codecs across PLR under
EGPRS, mono mode. Results are shown for _AMR-WB+_ operating at 16 kbps and
_Eaac+_ operating at 20 kbps for PLR of 0 %, 1 %, 6 % and 10 %. Figure 24
shows results for EGPRS, stereo mode with both codecs operating at 24 k.
{width="4.293055555555555in" height="3.11875in"}
Figure 23: Results for EGPRS at four levels of PLR (mono mode)\ (Bit-rates
given are gross rates including packetization overhead)
{width="4.270138888888889in" height="3.111111111111111in"}
Figure 24: Results for audio codecs for EGPRS at four levels of PLR (stereo
mode)\ (Bit-rates given are gross rates including packetization overhead)
Figure 25 shows MUSHRA results for the two 3GPP audio codecs across PLR under
UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network (UTRAN), mono mode with the codecs
operating at relatively lower bit-rates. Results are shown for _AMR‑WB+_
operating at 20 kbps and _Eaac+_ operating at 32 kbps for PLR of 0 %, 1 % and
5%. Figure 26 shows results for UTRAN, stereo mode with both codecs operating
at 40 k.
{width="4.7875in" height="3.490972222222222in"}
Figure 25: Results for UTRAN, lower-rate at three levels of PLR (stereo mode)\
_AMR-WB+_ was tested at 20 kbps, _Eaac+_ at 32kbps\ (Bit-rates given are gross
rates including packetization overhead)
{width="4.810416666666667in" height="3.4881944444444444in"}
Figure 26: Results for UTRAN, Higher-rate at Three Levels of PLR (stereo
mode)\ (Bit-rates given are gross rates including packetization overhead)
In general, the results in figures 23 and 24 show that, for EGPRS, MUSHRA
performance decreases with increase in PLR. Moreover, the performance profiles
across PLR for the two codecs are similar for both the mono and stereo tests,
and exhibit slightly higher quality losses for AMR-WB+ at higher PLRs. Figures
25 and 26 show a similar trend for UTRAN in stereo mode - performance
decreases with increase in PLR. However, for the 40 kbps condition shown in
figure 26 the quality loss with increasing error rate for AMR-WB+ is
significantly higher than in the lower bit-rate conditions tested. This might
be related to the use of a different RTP packetizer configuration without
interleaving for AMR-WB+ in this test case as it can be seen in document
S4-050453 (in attachment \"TR 26.936 Annex B2 Additional Documents.zip\").
A similar effect cannot be observed for Enhanced aacPlus. Again, as shown for
the EGPRS experiments (figures 23 and 24), the performance profiles across PLR
for the two codecs and for the two bit-rates are similar in the case of UTRAN.
# 9 Results of verification tests
This clause comprises results from codec verification tasks which checked and
assessed various codec aspects such as complexity, verification of the fixed
point code, frequency response, delay, codec performance with 3D audio
signals, rate switching performance, and content dependency.
## 9.1 Complexity verification
The clause provides the results of the complexity verification of the fixed-
point (FIP) code. The source code used for this verification task is that
version which was obtained after completing the verification of the format of
the C-code and correct implementation of complexity counters in agreement with
verification entity STMicroelectronics.
### 9.1.1 AMR-WB+ complexity
The complexity has been evaluated using the \"allcat.wav\" stereo file, which
covers the complete audio material used in the audio codec low-rate selection
tests. For the mono test cases the \"allcat.wav\" file was externally down-
mixed to mono.
Tables 3 and 4 show the evaluated conditions and corresponding complexity
results.
Table 3: Encoder complexity figures
* * *
Condition Command line options Complexity (wMOPS) (Average/Worst Case) 14
kbps, mono -rate 14 -mono 53.217 / 54.009 14 kbps, mono, low complexity -rate
14 -mono -lc 29.004 / 33.331 24 kbps, mono -rate 24 -mono 70.998 / 72.055 24
kbps, mono, low complexity -rate 24 -mono -lc 38.074 / 45.815 18 kbps, stereo
-rate 18 69.279 / 70.479 18 kbps, stereo, low complexity -rate 18 -lc 45.170 /
50.438 24 kbps, stereo -rate 24 80.778 / 82.183 24 kbps, stereo, low
complexity -rate 24 -lc 51.799 / 59.311
* * *
Table 4: Decoder complexity figures
* * *
Condition Command line options Complexity (wMOPS) (Average/Worst Case) 14
kbps, mono -mono 8.415 / 8.792 24 kbps, mono -mono 10.382 / 10.981 36 kbps,
mono -mono 12.463 / 13.184 18 kbps, stereo None 15.996 / 16.603 24 kbps,
stereo None 17.654 / 18.303 32 kbps, stereo None 20.288 / 21.081 48 kbps,
stereo None 22.960 / 23.927
* * *
### 9.1.2 Eaac+ Complexity
The complexity numbers for the Enhanced aacPlus audio codec can be found in
the following tables, the numbers have been derived using the \"allcat.wav\"
item, which holds all the material from the selection test concatenated in one
single item. For every test case the average and worst frame weighted MOPS
figure has been derived. The worst case wMOPS figure over all test cases has
been marked in **blue**.
The fixed-point C-code contains a pre-compiler directive named
\"ACCOUNT_ETSIOP_OVERHEAD_ SPLITWORD32\". If this pre-compiler directive is
set during compilation, the complexity figures will be as given in table 5. If
this pre-compiler directive is not set during compilation, the complexity
figures will be as given in table 6. Regarding the details of the
corresponding difference in the fixed-point C-code, please see the comments in
the SplitWord32() function in intrinsics.c.
Table 5: Weighted MOPS figures with ACCOUNT_ETSIOP_OVERHEAD_SPLITWORD32 set
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Test | Mono | Stereo | Decoder | Decoder, | | | Case | Encoder | Encoder | | Mono | | | | | | | only | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | * | 14 m | 26.51 / | 26.50 / | 19.15 / | 14.73 / | | _wMOPS_ _| | 28.87 | 31.61 | 21.20 | 16.80 | | | | | | | | |__\ | | | | | | | [average | | | | | | | /\ | | | | | | | worst | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | rame]__| | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 18 s | --- | 61.38 / | 35.18 / | 15.14 / | | | | | 65.25 | 38.04 | 17.39 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 24 m | 29.51 / | 29.51 / | 20.98 / | 15.93 / | | | | 34.28 | 34.26 | 23.84 | 18.74 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 24 s | --- | 63.47 / | 37.35 / | 15.93 / | | | | | 68.17 | 40.98 | 18.72 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 32 s | --- | 64.61 / |__38.39 | 16.47 / | | | | | 71.02 | / | 19.60 | | | | | | 42.28_ _| | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 48 s | --- |__64.17 | 32.65 / | 21.96 / | | | | | / | 38.46 | 26.83 | | | | | 77.63_ * | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table 6: Weighted MOPS figures with ACCOUNT_ETSIOP_OVERHEAD_SPLITWORD32 not
set
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Test | Mono | Stereo | Decoder | Decoder, | | | Case | Encoder | Encoder | | Mono | | | | | | | only | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | * | 14 m | 23.80 / | 23.79 / | 15.86 / | 12.38 / | | _wMOPS_ _| | 25.41 | 29.04 | 17.73 | 14.38 | | | | | | | | |__\ | | | | | | | [average | | | | | | | /\ | | | | | | | worst | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | rame]__| | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 18 s | --- | 51.14 / | 29.35 / | 12.77 / | | | | | 53.92 | 32.07 | 14.95 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 24 m | 26.52 / | 26.52 / | 17.53 / | 13.51 / | | | | 29.60 | 29.66 | 20.13 | 16.21 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 24 s | --- | 53.08 / | 31.17 / | 13.57 / | | | | | 56.06 | 34.64 | 16.22 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 32 s | --- | 54.11 / |__32.08 | 14.05 / | | | | | 58.39 | / | 17.09 | | | | | | 35.75_ _| | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 48 s | --- |__57.46 | 27.88 / | 18.53 / | | | | | / | 33.43 | 23.22 | | | | | 65.89_ * | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
## 9.2 Frequency response verification
The input signal is the concatenation of the files that have been used for the
evaluation of floating point and fixed point decoder. This file comprises 4
music items, 4 speech items and 2 mixed content items. The total length of the
file is 84 s.
### 9.2.1 Frequency response of AMR-WB+
The frequency response of the configurations of AMR-WB+ used during
characterization and in selection are different. The characterization phase
configuration operated with a signal sampling frequency of 48 kHz while the
selection test configuration operated at only 24 kHz. The resulting difference
in frequency response in shown in the following.
#### 9.2.1.1 Characterization phase configuration
This clause reports the results in computing the frequency response of the
extended AMR-WB codec in the settings used for the characterization phase.
##### Frequency response computation {#frequency-response-computation .H6}
The AMR-WB+ codec was tested at following bit rates: 13.6 kbps mono, 18 kbps
stereo, 23.85 kbps stereo and 48 kbps stereo.
The input file is stereo.The frequency response has been evaluated by
computing the spectra for input signal and processed signal.
##### Results {#results .H6}
  * 14 kbps, mono output:
\- The output is band limited to 12 kHz as shown on the following image.
Output signal is slightly attenuated in frequency range 7 kHz to 12 kHz.
{width="3.4159722222222224in" height="2.7597222222222224in"}
Figure 27
  * 18 kbps, stereo output:
\- The output is band limited to 12 kHz as shown on the following images.
Output signal is slightly attenuated in frequency range 7 kHz to 12 kHz.
{width="3.4159722222222224in" height="2.772222222222222in"}
Figure 28
{width="3.3756944444444446in" height="2.747916666666667in"}
Figure 29
  * 24 kbps, stereo output:
\- The output is band limited to 14 kHz as shown on the following images.
Output signal is slightly attenuated in frequency range 6 kHz to 12 kHz.
{width="3.423611111111111in" height="2.747916666666667in"}
Figure 30
{width="3.3916666666666666in" height="2.729861111111111in"}
Figure 31
  * 48 kbps, stereo output:
\- The output is band limited to 18 kHz as shown on the following images.
Output signal is attenuated in frequency range 9 kHz to 11 kHz.
{width="3.34375in" height="2.772222222222222in"}
Figure 32
{width="3.3833333333333333in" height="2.747916666666667in"}
Figure 33
#### 9.2.1.2 Selection phase configuration
This clause reports the results in computing the frequency response of the
extended AMR-WB codec in the settings used for the selection phase for PSS
application.
##### Frequency response computation {#frequency-response-computation-1 .H6}
The AMR-WB+ codec was tested at following bit rates: 13.6 kbps mono, 18 kbps
stereo, 24 kbps mono and 24 kbps stereo.
The input file is 24 kHz sampling frequency, mono or stereo depending on the
mode index .The command line was the one used for selection using the mode
index from 10 to 13.
The frequency response has been evaluated by computing the spectra for input
signal and processed signal.
##### Results {#results-1 .H6}
  * 14 kbps, mono output:
\- The output is band limited to 11 kHz as shown on the above image. Output
signal is slightly attenuated in frequency range 6 kHz to 11 kHz.
{width="3.5833333333333335in" height="2.54375in"}
Figure 34
  * 18 kbps, stereo output:
\- The output is band limited to 11 kHz as shown on the images. Output signal
is slightly attenuated in frequency range 4 kHz to 11 kHz.
{width="3.607638888888889in" height="2.8444444444444446in"}
Figure 35
{width="3.623611111111111in" height="2.8020833333333335in"}
Figure 36
  * 24 kbps, mono output:
\- The output is band limited to 14 kHz as shown on the following image.
Output signal is slightly attenuated in frequency range 6 kHz to 12 kHz.
{width="3.615972222222222in" height="2.790277777777778in"}
Figure 37
  * 24 kbps, stereo output:
\- The output is band limited to 11 kHz as shown on the images. Output signal
is attenuated in frequency range 6 kHz to 11 kHz.
{width="3.5833333333333335in" height="2.7777777777777777in"}
Figure 38
{width="3.607638888888889in" height="2.8201388888888888in"}
Figure 39
##### Conclusion {#conclusion .H6}
When used with the selection phase settings, the frequency response of AMR-WB+
is limited to 11 kHz.
### 9.2.2 Frequency response of Eaac+
This clause reports the results in computing the frequency response of the
Eaac+ codec.
##### Frequency response computation {#frequency-response-computation-2 .H6}
The Eaac+ codec was tested at following bit rates: 14 kbps mono, 18 kbps
stereo, 24 kbps stereo and 48 kbps stereo.
The input file is stereo. The frequency response has been evaluated by
computing the spectra for input signal and processed signal.
##### Results {#results-2 .H6}
  * 14 kbps, mono output:
\- The output is band limited to 10 kHz as shown on the following images.
Output signal is slightly attenuated in frequency range 7 kHz to 10 kHz.
{width="3.407638888888889in" height="2.7597222222222224in"}
Figure 40
  * 18kbps, stereo output:
\- The output is band limited to 12 kHz as shown on the following images.
Output signal is attenuated in frequency range 6 kHz to 12 kHz.
{width="3.4159722222222224in" height="2.7416666666666667in"}
Figure 41
{width="3.4159722222222224in" height="2.747916666666667in"}
Figure 42
  * 24 kbps, stereo output:
\- The output is band limited to 15 kHz as shown on the following images.
Output signal is slightly attenuated in frequency range 6 kHz to 15 kHz.
{width="3.407638888888889in" height="2.7597222222222224in"}
Figure 43
{width="3.3916666666666666in" height="2.729861111111111in"}
Figure 44
  * 48 kbps, stereo output:
\- The output is band limited to 17 kHz as shown on the following images.
{width="3.3833333333333333in" height="2.7416666666666667in"}
Figure 45
{width="3.3916666666666666in" height="2.747916666666667in"}
Figure 46
##### Conclusion {#conclusion-1 .H6}
The frequency response of Enhanced aacPlus is also dependent on the bit rate.
Attenuation can be observed for lowest bit rates; this attenuation is not
constant over the frequency range.
## 9.3 Codec delay verification
### 9.3.1 AMR-WB+ codec delay
##### Introduction {#introduction .H6}
This clause gives an analysis of the algorithmic delay of the extended AMR-WB
codec. Delay figures are given for both mono and stereo operation, and at
different Internal Sampling Frequencies (ISF).
##### Delay in mono operation {#delay-in-mono-operation .H6}
The delay analysis for mono operation is shown in table 7. The input signal
sampling frequency of 48 kHz is used in the analysis. The table gives the
encoder lookahead, decoder lookahead, and the superframe size. The algorithmic
delay is measured as the superframe size plus the lookahead of both encoder
and decoder. The breakdown of the delay is performed by listing the delay in
samples for given operation, then the delay is converted from samples to ms
based on the sampling frequency corresponding to that operation (in column
Fs).
Table 7: Delay in mono operation for typical ISF of 25.6 kHz and\ for maximum
ISF of 38.4 kHz, and minimum ISF of 12.8 kHz
| Typical ISF = 25.6 kHz | Min ISF = 12.8 kHz | Max ISF = 38.4 kHz |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| No of Samples | Fs (kHz) | Delay (ms) | No of Samples | Fs (kHz) | Delay (ms) | No of Samples | Fs (kHz) | Delay (ms)  
**Encoder lookahead** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Analysis lookahead | 256 | 12.8 | 20.0000 | 256 | 6.4 | 40.0000 | 288 | 19.2 | 15.0000  
Down-sampling | 24 | 48.0 | 0.5000 | 48 | 48.0 | 1.0000 | 16 | 48.0 | 0.3333  
Band-splitting | 24 | 25.6 | 0.9375 | 24 | 12.8 | 1.8750 | 24 | 38.4 | 0.6250  
**Decoder lookahead** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Postfiltering | 140 | 12.8 | 10.9375 | 140 | 6.4 | 21.8750 | 140 | 19.2 | 7.2917  
Band-merging | 12 | 12.8 | 0.9375 | 12 | 6.4 | 1.8750 | 12 | 19.2 | 0.6250  
Upsampling | 12 | 25.6 | 0.4688 | 12 | 12.8 | 0.9375 | 12 | 38.4 | 0.3125  
**Superframe size** | 1 024 | 12.8 | 80.0000 | 1024 | 6.4 | 160.0000 | 1024 | 19.2 | 53.3333  
**Total delay (ms)** |  |  | **113.7813** |  |  | **227.5625** |  |  | **77.5208**  
The algorithmic delay for the typical Internal Sampling Frequency (ISF) of
25.6 kHz is computed as 113.7813 ms. The algorithmic delay for the two extreme
cases corresponding to maximum ISF of 38.4 kHz (32 kbps mono operation) and
minimum ISF of 12.8 kHz (5.2 kbps mono operation) are also computed (77.5208
ms and 227.5625 ms, respectively).
The delay for other ISFs can be approximately estimated as 113.78 ×
(25.6/ISF), where ISF is the internal sampling frequency in kHz.
##### Delay in stereo operation {#delay-in-stereo-operation .H6}
The delay analysis for stereo operation is shown in table 8. The input signal
is assumed sampled at 48 kHz. The table gives the encoder lookahead, decoder
lookahead, and the superframe size. The algorithmic delay is measured as the
superframe size plus the lookahead of both encoder and decoder. The breakdown
of the delay is performed by listing the delay in samples for given operation,
then the delay is converted from samples to ms based on the sampling frequency
corresponding to that operation (in column Fs).
The algorithmic delay for the typical internal sampling frequency (ISF) of
25.6 kHz is computed as 162.8438 ms. The algorithmic delay for the two extreme
cases corresponding to maximum ISF of 38.4 kHz and minimum ISF of 12.8 kHz are
also computed (77.5208 ms and 227.5625 ms, respectively).
The delay for other ISFs can be approximately estimated as 162.84 ×
(25.6/ISF), where ISF is the internal sampling frequency in kHz.
Table 8: Delay in stereo operation for typical ISF of 25.6 kHz and\ for
maximum ISF of 38.4 kHz, and minimum ISF of 12.8 kHz
| Typical ISF = 25.6 kHz | Min ISF = 12.8 kHz | Max ISF = 38.4 kHz |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| No of Samples | Fs (kHz) | Delay (ms) | No of Samples | Fs (kHz) | Delay (ms) | No of Samples | Fs (kHz) | Delay (ms)  
**Encoder lookahead** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Analysis Lookahead | 512 | 12.8 | 40.0000 | 512 | 6.4 | 80.0000 | 512 | 19.2 | 26.6667  
Down-sampling | 24 | 48 | 0.5000 | 48 | 48 | 1.0000 | 16 | 48 | 0.3333  
Band-splitting | 24 | 25.6 | 0.9375 | 24 | 12.8 | 1.8750 | 24 | 38.4 | 0.6250  
**Decoder lookahead** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Postfiltering | 512 | 12.8 | 40.0000 | 512 | 6.4 | 80.0000 | 512 | 19.2 | 26.6667  
Band-merging | 12 | 12.8 | 0.9375 | 12 | 6.4 | 1.8750 | 12 | 19.2 | 0.6250  
Upsampling | 12 | 25.6 | 0.4688 | 12 | 12.8 | 0.9375 | 12 | 38.4 | 0.3125  
**Superframe size** | 1 024 | 12.8 | 80.0000 | 1024 | 6.4 | 160.0000 | 1024 | 19.2 | 53.3333  
**Total delay (ms)** |  |  | **162.8438** |  |  | **325.6875** |  |  | **108.5625**  
### 9.3.2 Eaac+ codec delay
##### Introduction {#introduction-1 .H6}
The clause holds the delay information for the Enhanced aacPlus codec.
##### Delay by component {#delay-by-component .H6}
The Enhanced aacPlus codec including pre-downsampling contains a number of
delay sources, consisting of:
  * 25 (fixed point encoder) resp. 6 (floating point encoder) samples > for a 2 : 1 downsampling filter;
  * 58 (fixed point encoder) resp. 5 (floating point encoder) samples > for a 3 : 2 downsampling filter;
  * 2 048 samples for an overlapped MDCT;
  * 1 152 samples look-ahead buffer within the psychoacoustic module;
  * 962 samples SBR encoding and decoding delay;
  * 958 samples PS encoder dowmnix;
  * 2 048 samples (1 Frame) decoder concealment;
  * Bit-rate dependant bit-reservoir.
##### Delay overview of the constant delay contributors {#delay-overview-of-
the-constant-delay-contributors .H6}
When calculating the constant algorithmic codec delay contributors, the
following additional considerations need to be taken into account:
  * The PS downmix includes also the downsampling of the downmixed input > signal, the 25 resp. 6 samples delay for the 2: 1 downsampling > filter does not apply.
  * For mono bit-rates below 12 kbps, Enhanced aacPlus operates with a > sampling rate of 32 kHz. Here the 3: 2 downsampling filter is used > for 48 kHz to 32 kHz input signal conversion.
Consequently this results in table 9.
Table 9
* * *
Encoding mode 2: 1 Down-sampler 3: 2 Down-sampler MDCT Psych look-ahead SBR
Concealment PS Overall constant delay\ [samples, fixed point enc / floating
point enc]
mono,\ Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No 6293 / 6221 br \ was applied. The internal sampling frequency was constant (25 600 > Hz) in all cases. No DTX operation was applied. In the mono case, > AMR-WB and AMR-WB+ modes were switched randomly in the mode index > range of [0 to 15], see table 21 in 3GPP TS 26.290 [5]. In the > decoder, the limiter option was turned on. The decoder was forced > to provide mono output by using the -mono flag.
  * For stereo encoding, the sampling frequency was 48 kHz. The internal > sampling frequency was switched randomly in the range of [0.5 to > 1.5] simultaneously with every mode switch. No DTX operation was > applied. In the stereo case, AMR-WB+ extension modes were switched > randomly in the mode index range of [24 to 47], see table 25 in > 3GPP TS 26.290 [5]. In combination of mode index and internal > sampling frequency switching, the bit-rate varied in the range of > 7 kb/s to 45 kb/s. In the decoder, the -limiter option was turned > on.
##### Listening {#listening .H6}
The decoded materials were examined by expert listeners for audible artifacts.
##### Results {#results-3 .H6}
The AMR-WB+ code was able to encode and decode fully the input material. No
audible artifacts could be perceived in any case. Hence it can be stated that
the AMR-WB+ codec is able to provide seamless bit-rate switching in the
framework of the experiments we conducted.
### 9.5.2 Rate switching performance of Eaac+
##### Introduction {#introduction-4 .H6}
This clause presents the results of a study of the bit rate switching
behaviour of the Eaac+ decoder.
##### Methodology {#methodology .H6}
The following procedure was used for carrying out the task:
1) Generation of configuration files for the Eaac+ encoder steering the
encoding bit rate to toggle between various rates of interest. The toggling
was done with a rate of about one rate change per second.
2) Decoding of the generated audio parameter file with Eaac+ decoder (3GPP TS
26.410 [6]).
3) Informal listening by expert listeners and further analysis.
NOTE: The investigation was limited to bit rate toggling within a given
Eaac+channel mode configuration, i.e. in between mono, in between PS stereo,
and in between conventional stereo mode not using the PS tool. Switching
across configurations, namely between mono and stereo or between PS stereo and
conventional stereo (i.e. crossing the 36 kbps border) was not investigated
since the used encoder did not provide such a functionality.
##### Audio data {#audio-data .H6}
The audio data used in the study was sound items from the selection test.
##### Experiments {#experiments .H6}
The bit rates between which the toggling was performed were chosen with the
preference to cause a change of the reconstructed audio bandwidth. In
particular, the following cases have been investigated:
  * mono: togglings between 12/17 kbps, 17/19 kbps, 21/23 kbps, 27/29 > kbps, 17/29 kbps.
  * PS stereo: togglings between 16/17 kbps, 17/19 kbps, 21/23 kbps, > 27/29 kbps, 17/29 kbps.
  * Conventional (non-PS) stereo: 43/45 kbps, 45/51 kbps.
##### Results {#results-4 .H6}
The standardized Eaac+ decoder was fully capable of decoding the bitstream
files with toggled bit rate within the given Eaac+ channel mode
configurations. No particular switching effects were encountered even though
the rate change may lead to a slight change of the spectral nature of the
reconstructed signal. In conclusion it can be stated that the Eaac+ decoder
provides seamless bit rate switching capability as long as the Eaac+ channel
mode configuration is not changed.
## 9.6 Verification of source code
The verification aims at the following objectives:
  * to verify that the algorithms are based on a fixed-point 16/32-bit > arithmetic;
  * to verify that the reference source code is instrumented with the > ETSI basic operators that are used for the AMR and AMR-WB speech > codecs;
  * to verify that the instrumentation follows the rules from document > "ETSI SMG-11 AMR#9: Complexity and delay assessment\" (included > in attachment \"TR 26.936 Annex B3 Verification test > documents.zip").
### 9.6.1 Source code verification of AMR-WB+
##### Introduction {#introduction-5 .H6}
According to the verification plan in Tdoc S4-050187 \"Source code
verification plan v1.0\" (included in attachment \"TR 26.936 Annex B3
Verification test documents.zip"), STMicroelectronics has conducted the
verification of the reference source code from the extended AMR-WB (AMR-WB+)
decoder.
##### Verification of the format of the C-code {#verification-of-the-format-
of-the-c-code .H6}
The verification laboratory has verified the following items for both
reference source codes:
  * the source code of the AMRWB+ decoder compiles on MSVC (Microsoft > Visual C);
  * there is no obvious deviation from the ANSI-C standard that would > prevent compliant ANSI-C compiler to compile the source code.
The verification laboratory has also verified that the only calls to external
libraries that happened in the reference source codes were limited to:
  * calls to libc: fwrite()/fread()/fseek() for file IO, > printf()/fprintf() for command line text display, assert() for > debug assertion, malloc()/free() for memory allocation at the > initialization stage of the decoder;
  * calls to libisomedia which is the library implementing the API for > the 3GP file format.
##### Verification of the usage of the fixed-point arithmetic {#verification-
of-the-usage-of-the-fixed-point-arithmetic .H6}
The verification laboratory has verified that the audio decoding algorithm
implemented through the reference source C code does not make usage of any
floating-point instructions. It was checked that the algorithm relies
exclusively on a 16/32-bit arithmetic. Other types of arithmetic (32/32-bit
arithmetic and floating point arithmetic) are emulated through the 16/32-bit
instructions.
The verification laboratory believes that the source code provides a full bit-
exact reference representation from the behaviour of the audio decoding
algorithm and therefore, that it is admissible for a bit-exact reference
representation of the AMR-WB+ decoder.
##### Verification of the instrumentation {#verification-of-the-
instrumentation .H6}
**Objective**
The verification laboratory has checked that the source code implements the
basic operators and the instrumentation according to the rules described in
the document "ETSI SMG-11 AMR#9: Complexity and delay assessment\". The
primary objective is to ensure that the figures of complexity (wMOPs, stack
depth) estimated at run time by the software decoder are comparable to the
figures of complexity obtained from past exercises.
The secondary objective is to ensure that the source code can easily be ported
on a DSP target by mapping basic operators or combination of basic operators
onto the native intrinsic functions from the target platform.
**General comments**
The verification laboratory has mainly verified the functions that participate
to the main loop of the decoding algorithm.
Therefore, the instrumentation of the functions corresponding to the
initialization stages of the decoder were not carefully verified since those
functions do not participate at all to the evaluation of the figure of
complexity of the algorithm (but still, the bit-exactness and the fixed-point
implementation were verified).
The verification laboratory reports also that the boundary between the file
I/O operations that require to be instrumented and the file I/O operations
that do not require to be instrumented is not very clear. In particular, the
verification laboratory had no time to check whether the AMR-WB+ decoder has
defined the same borders as limits of the source code instrumentation than
AMR-WB or Eaac+.
The verification laboratory reports also that the source code for AMRWB+ does
not fully conform to the proposed usage of the step increment. It exists cases
where the increment is not a constant and the amount of iteration in the loop
is not easy to obtain. Depending on the cases, the verification laboratory
believes that the environment of such loop statements could be re-written in
order to finally fulfill the step increment constraints; alternatively, those
loop statements could be re-cast as software loops. In any case, the impact on
the bit-exactness in null and the impact on the overall figure of complexity
will not be significant.
##### List of files verified {#list-of-files-verified .H6}
Table 11: List of files that were verified
* * *
File name Verified common_fx/ALF_emph_fx.c OK Common_fx/bits_p_fx.c OK
common_fx/Bitstream_fx.c OK common_fx/decim12k8_fx.c OK common_fx/bits_p_fx.c
OK common_fx/fft3_fx.c OK common_fx/fft9_fx.c OK common_fx/gaintcx_fx.c OK
common_fx/hf_func_fx.c OK common_fx/int_lpc_p_fx.c OK
common_fx/join_split_fx.c OK common_fx/overs12k8_fx.c OK
common_fx/q_gn_hf_fx.c OK common_fx/q_isf_hf_fx.c OK common_fx/r_fft_fx.c OK
common_fx/re8_dec_fx.c OK common_fx/Re8_dic_fx.c  
common_fx/re8_ppv_fx.c OK common_fx/Re8_util_fx.c OK common_fx/read_dat_fx.c
OK common_fx/rnd_ph16_fx.c OK common_fx/tables_plus_fx.c  
common_fx/tables_stereo_fx.c OK common_fx/util_plus_fx.c OK
common_fx/util_stereo_x_fx.c OK common_fx/wavefiletools_fx.c OK
common_fx/writ_dat_fx.c OK decoder_fx/avq_dec_fx.c OK decoder_fx/bass_pf_fx.c
OK decoder_fx/d_gain2p_fx.c OK decoder_fx/d_isf_2s_fx.c OK
decoder_fx/dec_ace_fx.c OK decoder_fx/dec_cp_state_fx.c OK
Decoder_fx/dec_hf_fx.c OK Decoder_fx/dec_if_fx.c OK Decoder_fx/dec_lf_fx.c OK
decoder_fx/dec_main_s_fx.c OK decoder_fx/dec_prm_fx.c OK
decoder_fx/dec_tcx_fx.c OK decoder_fx/dec_wbplus_fx.c OK
decoder_fx/Scale_dec_fx.c OK decoder_fx/tcx_ecu_fx.c OK
stereo_fx_eks/d_stereo_x_fx.c OK stereo_fx_eks/dec_hi_stereo_fx.c OK
stereo_fx_eks/dec_tcx_stereo_fx.c OK
* * *
##### Comments {#comments .H6}
Based on the suggestions made by the verification laboratory, the
instrumentation of the source code was slightly cleaned while keeping its bit-
exact behaviour. The resulting source code complies with the rules from the
document "ETSI SMG-11 AMR#9: Complexity and delay assessment\".
##### Conclusion {#conclusion-3 .H6}
The verification laboratory feels confident that the source code of the AMR-
WB+ decoder can serve as a bit-exact reference of the algorithm. The
verification laboratory thinks that the instrumentation of the source code is
conformed to the expectation of a 3GPP reference source code.
### 9.6.2 Source code verification of Eaac+
##### Introduction {#introduction-6 .H6}
According to the verification plan in Tdoc S4-050187 \"Source code
verification plan v1.0\" (included in attachment \"TR 26.936 Annex B3
Verification test documents.zip") , STMicroelectronics has conducted the
verification of the reference source code from the enhanced aacPlus (Eaac+)
decoder.
##### Verification of the format of the C-code {#verification-of-the-format-
of-the-c-code-1 .H6}
The verification laboratory has verified the following items for both
reference source codes:
  * the source code of the Eaac+ decoder compiles on a Linux platform, > with GNU gcc version 3.2.3 and GNU make version 3.79.1;
  * there is no obvious deviation from the ANSI-C standard that would > prevent compliant ANSI-C compiler to compile the source code;
  * the text of the specification document 3GPP TS 26.411 [7] matches > the file tree structure delivered to the verification laboratory.
The verification laboratory has also verified that the only calls to external
libraries that happened in the reference source codes were limited to:
  * calls to libc: fwrite()/fread()/fseek() for file IO, > printf()/fprintf() for command line text display, assert() for > debug assertion;
  * calls to libisomedia which is the library implementing the API for > the 3GP file format.
##### Verification of the usage of the fixed-point arithmetic {#verification-
of-the-usage-of-the-fixed-point-arithmetic-1 .H6}
The verification laboratory has verified that the audio decoding algorithm
implemented through the reference source C code does not make usage of any
floating-point instructions. It was checked that the algorithm relies
exclusively on a 16/32-bit arithmetic. Other types of arithmetic (32/32-bit
arithmetic and floating point arithmetic) are emulated through the 16/32-bit
instructions.
The verification laboratory believes that the source code provides a full bit-
exact reference representation from the behaviour of the audio decoding
algorithm and therefore, that it is admissible for a bit-exact reference
representation of the Eaac+ decoder.
##### Verification of the instrumentation {#verification-of-the-
instrumentation-1 .H6}
##### Objective {#objective .H6}
The verification laboratory has checked that the source code implements the
basic operators and the instrumentation according to the rules described in
the document "ETSI SMG-11 AMR#9: Complexity and delay assessment\" . The
primary objective is to ensure that the figures of complexity (wMOPs, stack
depth) estimated at run time by the software decoder are comparable to the
figures of complexity obtained from past exercises.
The secondary objective is to ensure that the source code can easily be ported
on a DSP target by mapping basic operators or combination of basic operators
onto the native intrinsic functions from the target platform.
##### General comments {#general-comments .H6}
The verification laboratory has mainly verified the functions that participate
to the main loop of the decoding algorithm.
Therefore, the instrumentation of the functions corresponding to the
initialization stages of the decoder were not carefully verified since those
functions do not participate at all to the evaluation of the figure of
complexity of the algorithm (but still, the bit-exactness and the fixed-point
implementation were verified).
The verification laboratory reports also that the boundary between the file
I/O operations that require to be instrumented and the file I/O operations
that do not require to be instrumented is not very clear. In particular, the
verification laboratory had no time to check whether the Eaac+ decoder has
defined the same borders as limits of the source code instrumentation than
AMR-WB or AMR-WB+.
The verification laboratory reports also that the source code of Eaac+ does
not fully conform to the proposed usage of the step increment. It exists cases
where the increment is not a constant and the amount of iteration in the loop
is not easy to obtain. Depending on the cases, the verification laboratory
believes that the environment of such loop statements could be re-written in
order to finally fulfill the step increment constraints; alternatively, those
loop statements could be re-cast as software loops. In any case, the impact on
the bit-exactness is null and the impact on the overall figure of complexity
will not be significant.
##### List of files verified {#list-of-files-verified-1 .H6}
Table 12: List of files that were verified
* * *
Directory Module name Verified src/ main.c OK fileifc.c OK spline_resampler.c
OK etsiop_aacdec/ aacdecoder.c OK streaminfo.c OK channelinfo.c OK stereo.c OK
longblock.c OK shortblock.c OK pulsedata.c OK block.c OK pns.c OK imdct.c OK
tns.c OK bitstream.c OK channel.c OK conceal.c OK datastream.c OK aac_ram.c OK
aac_rom.c OK etsiop_sbrdeclib/ env_dec.c OK aacpluscheck.c OK env_calc.c OK
lpp_tran.c OK sbrdecoder.c OK sbr_dec.c OK sbr_crc.c OK hybrid.c OK
ps_bitdec.c OK env_extr.c OK freq_sca.c OK ps_dec.c OK qmf_dec.c OK sbr_ram.c
OK sbr_rom.c OK etsiop_bitbuf/ bitbuffer.c  
etsiop_ffrlib/ fft_32x32.c OK transcendent.c OK transcendent_enc.c OK
intrinsics.c OK vector.c OK
* * *
##### Comments {#comments-1 .H6}
Based on the suggestions made by the verification laboratory, the
instrumentation of the source code was slightly cleaned while keeping its bit-
exact behaviour. The resulting source code complies with the rules from the
document "ETSI SMG-11 AMR#9: Complexity and delay assessment" (apart from the
double precision multiplication issue which is dealt in section \"16x32 and
32x32 multiplication\").
##### 16x32 and 32x32 multiplication {#x32-and-32x32-multiplication .H6}
The verification laboratory has noted that double precision multiplication is
used. Such multiplication is difficult to simulate in full accuracy with the
ETSI basic operators.
Apart for this workaround, the verification laboratory is not aware of any
full precision 16x32 workaround used in 3GPP codecs and based on the ETSI
basic operators.
The verification laboratory is aware of the workaround built in the AMR-WB
source code and known as the DPF arithmetic. This workaround provides a 16x31
multiplication for 3 wops (weighted operations). It costs 5 wops in order to
enter the DPF mode and costs 3 wops in order to exit the DPF mode.
The verification laboratory has noted that the Eaac+ has built another
workaround for the 16x31 multiplication based on a split in two arrays, LSB /
MSB, from the double precision argument. It is believed that it exists a mean
to re-organize the processing and the data storage that would validates the
proposed implementation. It is understood that if such a code and data re-
organization was provided as a reference source code, it would cause a
significant workload for a developer to revert back to the original
organization which exhibit natively the 16x31 multiplications and is easily
mapped onto DSP intrinsic functions.
Nevertheless, the current implementation does not exhibit such organization
and therefore the verification laboratory can not state whether such
workaround is valid.
##### Conclusion {#conclusion-4 .H6}
The verification laboratory feels confident that the source code of the Eaac+
decoder can serve as a bit-exact reference of the algorithm.. The verification
laboratory thinks that the instrumentation of the source code is conformed to
the expectation of a 3GPP reference source code.
### 9.6.3 General discussion
During the source code verification phase, the instrumentation of the source
code was slightly cleaned while keeping a bit-exact behaviour.
Regarding Eaac+, and more specifically the double precision multiplication,
the verification laboratory recognizes that requesting from the source code to
be clean enough so that the port on a DSP platform is straightforward (which
is one of the objective targeted by the release of a reference source code)
was in contradiction with the primary objective that requests an
instrumentation which provides figures of complexity that scales smoothly
between existing algorithms.
The verification laboratory understands that the nature of the audio codec
technology (including the Eaac+ decoder, but not only) relies heavily on the
16x31-bit multiplication. The metric of the ETSI basic operators is designed
in a way that penalizes heavily the usage of the double precision
multiplication because such features were not common on baseband DSP. As a
matter of fact, algorithms based on speech coding technology do not use
heavily this kind of arithmetic.
STMicroelectronics thinks that if the metric of the ETSI basic operator was
modified in order to lessen the penalty of the double precision
multiplication, then, first of all, it would not impact significantly the
wMOPs score of the algorithm, even if it was re-written in order to replace
the DPF arithmetic by plain 16x31 and 31x31 arithmetic; second, we believe
that the design choices, that were introduced at the very beginning of the
design of the AMR-WB and AMR-WB+, partially based on the metric that was
available at that time (penalizing the double precision multiplication), would
not have been made definitely different, if the metric had been different and
the 16x31 and 31x31 arithmetic was not penalized.
STMicroelectronics believes that the audio decoders under study will not be
implemented on platforms that do not provide a support for the double
precision multiplication. Therefore, we support the idea that the reference
source code exhibits facilities for implementing the algorithm on platform
supporting double precision multiplication.
Therefore, it is understood that the wMOPS values obtained from the current
ETSI basic operators would not scale properly from the AMR and AMR-WB to the
Eaac+.
The following way forward was agreed:
  * The reference source code provides (for instance through compilation > flags) two alternative (but bit-exact) implementations:
\- an implementation providing a source code fully based (but not necessarily
optimized) for ETSI basic operators;
\- an implementation that allows a fast and efficient port for a DSP, where
the 16x31 multiplication from the reference source code maps easily on the DSP
intrinsic functions.
  * It was agreed that in the characterization report, the wMOPs score obtained from the reference source codes is split in two values: the value that is directly due to the 16x31 and 31x31 arithmetic and the value that is due to everything else. From those two values, any manufacturer will be able to derive an actual figure of complexity that scales properly on its own platform.
## 9.7 Content dependency
One aspect of this verification item was addressed by a contribution from a
codec proponent in which a subjective test was conducted to assess the stereo
performance of _AMR-WB+_ and _Eaac+_ with real-world critical music material
having certain signal characteristics. The report on this experiment can be
found in document S4-050710 (see Attachment \"TR26.936 Annex B2 Additional
Documents.zip\" to the present document).
###### ### Annex A: Test results from other bodies
This annex comprises test results for the two standardized codecs carried out
by ITU-T, where the codecs participated as reference codecs. These results
consist of two parts, one part obtained by MUSHRA testing of music and mixed
material , the other part obtained by ACR (MOS) and DCR (DMOS) testing of
speech material. Documents S4-050260-part1 and S4-050260-part2 (see Attachment
\"TR26.936 Annex B2 Additional Documents.zip\" to the present document)
contain the complete results for the MUSHRA and ACR and DCR results from the
ITU-T tests.
Additional test results by MPEG [2] and EBU [3] provide further information
for configurations using the _Eaac+_ decoder in combination with a non-
standardized encoder.
Since those tests were conducted outside of 3GPP, test conditions, sampling
rates and/or bit-rates may not be directly applicable to use cases in a 3GPP
environment.
# A.1 Test results from ITU-T standardization of G.722-1, annex C
The results shown in figures A.1 to A.6 were derived from experiments involved
in the ITU-T standardization of codec G.722.1, annex C. All six of these
experiments were conducted under mono conditions and involved test items band-
limited from 50Hz-14kHz. Two MUSHRA experiments were conducted in the ITU-
Phase 2 series of tests that, taken together, characterize the performance of
the two 3GPP audio codecs and one reference audio codec across two bit-rates.
The MUSHRA tests were conducted with music and mixed content. Figures A1 and
A2 show the results of G722-2 MUSHRA tests involving the three audio codecs at
24 kbps and 32 kbps, respectively. These results are based on the MUSHRA
ratings of 20 subjects, 10 test items, and one listening lab (N = 20*10*1 =
200).
* * *
{width="3.1569444444444446in" height="2.0944444444444446in"}
{width="3.1347222222222224in" height="2.092361111111111in"} Figure A.1: MUSHRA
results for audio codecs operating at 24 kbps Figure A.2: MUSHRA results for
audio codecs operating at 32 kbps
* * *
Figure A.3 shows MOS results from the ACR test in mono mode conducted in the
ITU-Phase 1 test series (document "ITU-T Standardization of G.722-1C, part1
(S4-050260).doc" included in Attachment "TR26.936 Annex B2 Additional
Documents.zip").. MOS results are shown for the two 3GPP audio codecs and for
one ITU-T reference audio codec, _G.722.1-annex C_ , across two bit-rates, 24
k and 32 kbps. The MOS tests were conducted with clean speech and speech with
various types of background noises. For two of the audio codecs, MOS
performance is better at the higher bit-rate (32 kbps). However, for _AMR-WB+_
, MOS is higher for 24 kbps (4.11) than for 32 kbps (3.91). All of the test
items involved in the ACR test involved Speech-only audio content.
{width="4.126388888888889in" height="2.604861111111111in"}
Figure A.3: MOS for audio codecs at bit-rates of 24 and 32 kbps (speech-only)
Figures A.4 to A.6 show results from the three ITU-P1 series of DCR tests, all
for the mono mode. In each of these figures, DMOS results are shown for the
three audio codecs across two bit-rates, 24 k and 32 kbps. The three DCR tests
characterize the performance of the audio codecs in background noise
conditions. Figure A.4 shows DMOS results for Office Noise, figure A.5 for
Interfering Talker, and figure A.6 for Office Noise plus Interfering Talker.
All of the test items involved in the DCR tests also involved Speech-only
audio content.
* * *
{width="3.2604166666666665in" height="2.104861111111111in"}
{width="3.2597222222222224in" height="2.104861111111111in"} Figure A.4: DMOS
for audio codecs at 24 and 32 kbps in office background noise Figure A.5: DMOS
for audio codecs at 24 and 32 kbps with interfering talker
* * *
{width="3.270138888888889in" height="2.102777777777778in"}
Figure A.6: DMOS for audio codecs at 24 and 32kbps in office noise and
interfering talker
###### ### Annex B: Documents for information
The documents contained in the attached files :
  * TR26.936 Annex B1 Official Test Documents.zip
  * TR26.936 Annex B2 Additional Documents.zip
  * TR26.936 Annex B3 Verification test documents.zip
provide useful additional information. The formatting of these documents does
not follow the 3GPP drafting rules and some of them may contain further
references to other temporary documents not essential for the purpose of this
TR (and that may not be available for download, since they are not under
permanent maintenance).
# B.1 Official testing documents (file TR26.936 Annex B1 Official Test
Documents.zip)
List of documents :
_Attachment 1A_ : PSS/MMS[/MBMS] Audio Codec Characterization Test Plan
_Attachment 1B_ : **Global Analysis Laboratory Report for Phase-1 of the 3GPP
Audio Codec Characterization Test for PSS-MMS-MBMS**
_Attachment 1C_ : **Global Analysis Laboratory Report for Phase 2 of the 3GPP
Audio Codec Characterization Test for PSS-MMS-MBMS Applications**
_Attachment 1D_ : AMR-WB+ and PSS/MMS Low-Rate Audio Selection Test and
Processing Plan
_Attachment 1E_ : Global Analysis Laboratory Report on 3GPP Low-Rate Audio
Codec Exercises
_Attachment 1F_ : PSS/MMS High-Rate Audio Selection Test and Processing Plan
_Attachment 1G_ : Global Analysis Laboratory Report on 3GPP High-Rate Audio
Codec Exercises
# B.2 Additional information documents (file TR26.936 Annex B2 Additional
Documents.zip)
List of documents :
_S4-050260_ \- Characterisation test results of the 14khz low-complexity audio
coding algorithm at 24, 32, and 48 kbps extension to ITU-T G.722.1: phase 1
_S4-050260_ \- Characterisation test results of the 14khz low-complexity audio
coding algorithm at 24, 32, and 48 kbps extension to ITU-T G.722.1: phase 2
_S4-040439_ \- **Additional information on AMR-WB+ performance**
_S4-040710_ \- **Additional information: AMR-WB+ performance at very-low bit
rates**
_S4-050453_ \- AMR-WB+ configurations in characterisation test phase 2
_S4-050544_ \- **Characterization test phase 2, settings used for Enhanced
aacPlus**
_S4-050710_ \- **Evaluation of codec behaviour with special input signals**
**_S4-060157_ \- Background on Error Conditions for the Characterization in
TR26.936**
# B.3 Verification test documents (file TR26.936 Annex B3 Verification test
documents.zip)
List of documents :
**AMR#9 Permanent document on complexity and delay assessment**
_S4-050187_ \- **Source code verification plan**
#