# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
## 1.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] Void.
[3] 3GPP TS 23.041: \"Technical realization of Cell Broadcast Service (CBS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 44.004: \"Layer 1; General requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 44.006: \"Mobile Station - Base Station System (MS - BSS)
interface Data Link (DL) layer specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 45.002: \"Multiplexing and multiple access on the radio path\".
## 1.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 apply.
# 2 General description
SMSCB is a service in which short messages may be broadcast from a PLMN to
Mobile Stations (MS)s. SMSCB messages come from different sources (e.g.
traffic reports, weather reports). The source and subject of the SMSCB message
is identified by a message identifier in the SMSCB message header. A sequence
number in the SMSCB message header enables the MS to determine when a new
message from a given source is available.
SMSCB messages are not acknowledged by the MS. Reception of SMSCB messages by
the MS is only possible in idle mode. The geographical area over which each
SMSCB message is transmitted is selected by the PLMN operator, by agreement
with the provider of the information.
A SMSCB message is an end-to-end message that is formatted by/for the SMSCB
application, and which is intended for customer viewing. Its format is
described in detail in 3GPP TS 23.041. A CB message is any message sent on the
basic or extended CBCH (see 3GPP TS 45.002). It can be an occurrence of a
SMSCB message, or a schedule message.
The SMS Cell Broadcast service is designed to minimize the battery usage
requirements for a MS. A MS can read the first part of a CB message and then
decide whether or not to read the rest of the message. In addition, the
network may broadcast Schedule Messages, providing information in advance
about the CB messages that will be sent immediately afterwards. The MS may use
this scheduling information to restrict reception to those messages the
customer is interested in receiving. This SMSCB DRX feature is optional in the
network and the MS.
## 2.1 Scheduling Information
The network supporting the SMSCB DRX feature transmits Schedule Messages. A
Schedule Message includes information about a number of immediately following
consecutive CB messages, planned for that cell. The length of time covered by
the CB messages referred to in a Schedule Message is called the Schedule
Period of that message. For optimum DRX, a new Schedule Message should follow
the last message of a Schedule Period. When no information is known about a CB
message, e.g. because no Schedule Message has been received referring to that
CB message, a MS shall read (at least) the first part of the CB message.
Schedule Messages shall be sent on the basic and extended CBCH independently.
The network may override the published schedule to transmit new high-priority
SMSCB messages. However, after any schedule deviation, the network shall
resume the schedule, by transmitting the scheduled CB messages at the
scheduled times listed in the Schedule Message.
The Schedule Message contains a Message Description for each CB message to be
broadcast during the scheduling period, in order of transmission. The position
of a CB message is called the \"message slot number\" of the CB message, and
it indicates the position of the CB message within the schedule period. Each
Message Description includes various information, including for SMSCB messages
directly or indirectly all or part of their message identifier, and whether an
occurrence is a repetition or not.
Each Schedule Message includes a Begin Slot Number field and an End Slot
Number field. The End Slot Number field indicates the length of the schedule
period (i.e. specifically the number of CB message slots about which
information is provided). In the case where the network uses Schedule Messages
to describe all message slots in advance, the first Schedule Message of the
next schedule period will be transmitted in the message slot pointed by End
Slot Number plus 1. The Begin Slot Number is defined to allow the network to
broadcast several Schedule Messages referring to the same schedule period. The
Begin Slot Number field indicates the message slot number of the CB message
following the received Schedule Message.
The networks may send unscheduled Schedule Messages during empty message
slots. The network need only update the Begin Slot Number in an unscheduled
Schedule Message to reflect the current offset within the Schedule Message of
the next message to be transmitted.
# 3 Message format on BTS-MS Interface
## 3.1 General
A CB message consists of a 88 octets of information. The 88 octet block is
segmented into four 22 octet blocks. A 1 octet Block type is added as a header
to each 22 octet block. The overall blocks are thus 23 octets in length.
The message blocks are sent on the channel allocated as CBCH by 3GPP TS
45.002. The timing of the messages is defined in 3GPP TS 45.002. If the
network has no cell broadcast information to transmit, then it may choose to
transmit a null message.
## 3.2 Format convention
### 3.2.1 Numbering convention
The basic convention used in this technical specification is illustrated in
figure 1. The bits are grouped into octets. The bits of an octet are shown
horizontally and are numbered from 1 to 8. Multiple octets are shown
vertically and are numbered from 1 to 23.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 Octet: 1 2
                                  23
* * *
Figure 1: Format convention
### 3.2.2 Order of bit transmission
The message blocks are sent on the CBCH as defined in 3GPP TS 45.002 using the
coding defined for that channel.
The order of bit transmission is defined in 3GPP TS 44.004.
## 3.3 Block content
The 23 octet blocks are coded as follows.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 Octet: Block type 1  
2 Information  
23
* * *
Figure 2: Block content
### 3.3.1 Block Type
The purpose of the Block Type is to identify the function of the block and
message being sent. The block type is coded as shown in figure 3.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 Octet: Spare LPD LB Sequence Number 1  
0 0 1
* * *
Figure 3: Block type content
Bits 8 is spare and set to zero by the sender. In order to allow compatibility
with future modifications to this protocol, bits 8 shall be ignored by the
receiver and messages shall not be rejected because it is set to one.
The Link Protocol Discriminator (LPD) takes the value \"0 1\". Other values of
LPD indicate other protocols which are outside the scope of the present
document, and shall cause the message to be ignored when the Cell Broadcast
LPD is expected instead.
NOTE: LPD = \"0 0\" corresponds to the data link protocol used by LAPDm (see
3GPP TS 44.006).
In an SMSCB message the last block containing SMSCB information is signalled
by the Last Block (LB) bit. When the LB bit is set to \"0\", the next block
may contain SMSCB information. When the LB bit is set to \"1\", the remaining
block(s) do(es) not contain SMSCB information.
Table 1: Sequence number coding
* * *
Bit No 4 3 2 1
           0   0   0   0   First block
           0   0   0   1   Second block
           0   0   1   0   Third block
           0   0   1   1   Fourth block
           1   0   0   0   First schedule block:\
                           Message contains SMSCB\
                           scheduling information
           1   1   1   1   Null message (does not contain valid SMSCB information)
* * *
All other values of bits 4 to 1 are reserved for future use.
The use of a reserved code point shall cause the message to be ignored.
## 3.4 SMSCB Message
The SMSCB message is a message with four consecutive blocks, with Block Types
\"first block\", \"second block\", \"third block\" and \"fourth block\".
A null message (which is indicated by the Sequence Number 1111 (binary)) shall
have octets 2 to 23, inclusive, filled with the value 2B (hex).
The SMSCB message coding is defined in 3GPP TS 23.041.
## 3.5 Schedule Message
The text of the Schedule Message provides information pertaining to the CB
messages sent afterward.
A Schedule Message consists of 4 consecutive blocks with Block Types \"first
schedule block\", \"second block\", \"third block\" and \"fourth block\".
A Schedule Message containing scheduling data which does not fill the 88
octets shall be padded with the hexadecimal value \"2B\" after the end of the
used part of the message.
The Schedule Message comprises a 2-octet header followed by three parts, the
first of them of 6 octets, and the two others of variable length, as indicated
in figure 4.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 Octet: Type Begin Slot Number 1  
0 0  
Spare Spare End Slot Number 2  
0 0  
New CBSMS Message Bitmap 3 - 8  
New CBSMS Message Description 9 - 2m  
Other Message Descriptions (m+1)-n
* * *
Figure 4: Schedule Message coding
Octets following the last part (n+1 to 88 inclusive), if any, shall be
ignored.
In the following subclauses, when bits are indicated as spare, they shall be
set to the indicated value (0 or 1) by the network, and their value shall be
ignored by the MS.
### 3.5.1 Header
Type (Octet 1): Set to 00 for messages formatted as specified in subclause
3.5. Schedule messages with another \"Type\" value shall be ignored by the
receiver.
Begin Slot Number (octet 1): Message slot number, relative to the schedule
period, of the message slot following the Schedule Message. The Begin Slot
Number field is coded in binary. Value range: 1 to 48.
End Slot Number (octet 2): Last message slot number described by this Schedule
Message. The End Slot Number field shall be coded in binary, and must be
greater than or equal to the value of Begin Slot Number. Value range 1 to 48.
NOTE: For a scheduled Schedule message, the Begin Slot Number is set to \"1\".
NOTE 2: For an unscheduled Schedule message, the Begin Slot Number is set in
the range 2 to 48.
If either of the two preceding fields are out of range, or if the value of the
End Slot Number field is less than the value of the Begin Slot Number field,
the Schedule Message shall be ignored by the receiver.
### 3.5.2 New CBSMS Message Bitmap
This 6-octet fields encodes one bit per message slot, with the following
indexation.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Octet: NM 1 NM 2 NM 3 NM 4 NM 5 NM 6 NM 7 NM 8 1 NM 9 NM 10 NM 11 NM 12 NM 13
NM 14 NM 15 NM 16 2 NM 17 NM 18 NM 19 NM 20 NM 21 NM 22 NM 23 NM 24 3 NM 25 NM
26 NM 27 NM 28 NM 29 NM 30 NM 31 NM 32 4 NM 33 NM 34 NM 35 NM 36 NM 37 NM 38
NM 39 NM 40 5 NM 41 NM 42 NM 43 NM 44 NM 45 NM 46 NM 47 NM 48 6
* * *
Figure 5: New CBSMS Message Bitmap coding
NM i: The New Message bit i refers to the content of message slot i. Its
meaning is as follows:
1 The message slot contains an SMSCB message page which was either not sent
during the previous schedule period, or sent unscheduled during the preceding
schedule period; or, the message is indicated as of free usage, reading
advised. The value is 1 both for the first transmission of a given SMSCB
message page in the schedule period or a repetition of it within the schedule
period.
0 The message slot is such that value 1 is not suitable.
An SMSCB message fulfilling the criterion for bit value 1 is said in the
following to be \"new\". It should be noted that the broadcasting is not
necessarily the first one. The network can choose not to send a given SMSCB
message in all schedule periods. In this case it will be \"new\" each time it
has not been sent in the previous schedule period. Another case is when a
message is scheduled but its first transmission in the schedule period is pre-
empted ; the next time the SMSCB message is \"new\".
### 3.5.3 New CBSMS Message Description
This part contains as many Message Descriptions as there are bits set to 1 in
the New Message Bitmap. This part can then be empty. A message description is
1 or 2 octets long.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 Octet: Message Description 1 1
Message Description p
* * *
Figure 6: New CBSMS Message Description coding
New Message Description j: This one or two octet long field contains
information about what is sent in the j^th^ message slot for which NM i is set
to 1. The different possible encodings are specified in subclause 3.5.5.
All descriptions pertaining to the first transmission of a new message shall
be put at the beginning, so that mobile stations can determine rapidly where
the new messages are.
### 3.5.4 Other Message Descriptions
This part contains a one or two octet message description for each of the
remaining message slots in the schedule period, in the order of transmission.
This part can be empty.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 Octet: Message Description 1 1
Message Description p
* * *
Figure 7: Other Messages Part coding
The Message Slot Number for each description must be derived from the New
CBSMS Message Bitmap.
The different cases are encoded as specified in subclause 3.5.5.
### 3.5.5 Message description encoding
Four different encoding formats are specified, respectively:
1) for the first transmission of an SMSCB message in the schedule period;
2) for the repetition of an SMSCB message;
3) for a message slot of unindicated usage that MSs can skip; and
4) for a message slot of unindicated usage that MSs should not skip.
The different encoding formats are identified by the Message Description Type
(MDT) field. The MDT field is of variable length.
The length of a description can be determined from the value of bit 8 of the
first octet, which can then be understood as a \"more\" bit. Value 0 indicates
a single-octet field, and value 1 a 2-octet field.
#### 3.5.5.1 First transmission of an SMSCB within the Schedule Period
This describes the content of a message slot which contains the first
transmission of an SMSCB message page within the period.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 Octet: MDT Message Identifier (high part) 1  
1  
Message Identifier (low part) 2
* * *
Figure 8: Message Description coding, First Transmission of an SMSCB
MDT, Message Description Type (octet 1 of Message Description, bit 8): 1-bit
field set to 1 for the message description of a message slot containing the
first transmission during the schedule period of a given SMSCB message page.
MESSAGE IDENTIFIER (octet 1 bits 7 to 1 and octet 2 of Message Description):
Consists of the low-order 15 bits of the corresponding field of the SMSCB
message, as defined in 3GPP TS 23.041.
#### 3.5.5.2 Retransmission indication
When a message slot contains the repetition of a SMSCB message page within the
schedule period, the corresponding message description is coded on one octet,
as follows:
* * *
Bit 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 Octet: MDT 1  
0 0 Repeated Message Slot Number
* * *
Figure 9: Message Description coding, Retransmission of an SMSCB
MDT, Message Description Type (octet 1 of Message Description, bits 8 and 7):
2-bit field set to \"00\" for the message description of a message slot
containing the repetition of a SMSCB message page.
Repeated Message Slot Number (octet 1 of Message Description, bits 6 to 1):
This field encodes the message slot number of the first transmission during
the schedule period of the repeated SMSCB message page. The field is encoded
in binary, range 1 to 47.
#### 3.5.5.3 Free Message Slot, optional reading
When no specific information about a message slot is provided, and MSs need
not read its contents, the Message Description is coded as follows.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 Octet: MDT 1  
0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0
* * *
Figure 10: Message Description coding, Free Message Slot, optional reading
MDT, Message Description Type (octet 1 of Message Description): 8-bit field
set to \"01000000\". The network can use such a message slot as needed, e.g.
for unscheduled messages or for unscheduled Schedule Messages.
#### 3.5.5.4 Free Message Slot, reading advised
When no specific information about a message slot is provided, and MSs should
read its contents, the Message Description is coded as follows.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 Octet: MDT 1  
0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1
* * *
Figure 11: Message Description coding, Free Message Slot, reading advised
MDT, Message Description Type (octet 1 of Message Description): 8-bit field
set to \"01000001\". The network can use such a message slot as needed, e.g.
for sending high-priority messages.
#### 3.5.5.5 Reserved Codepoints
The values of MDT other than those specified in the previous subclauses are
reserved for future use. They shall be treated as encoding a one octet message
description, and understood as specified in subclause 3.5.5.3.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Sample Implementation of SMSCB DRX Mode
This annex describes an implementation of SMSCB DRX functions, both on the
network side and on the MS side.
The network includes Schedule Messages to provide the MSs with information
about the contents of the message slots following the Schedule Messages. The
simplest implementation consists in sending Schedule Messages regularly, in a
way all message slots are part of the schedule period of some Schedule
Message.
For the MS, there may be 3 main reception modes for the CBCH:
1) No DRX. The MS reads the first block of all message slots, and reads the
remaining blocks when the message header indicates this is useful. A MS
operates in this mode either when it does not support the other modes, or when
it has not received a schedule message applicable to the next message slot.
2) First DRX mode. The MS has received a schedule message applicable to the
next message slot, but either did not receive the first schedule message of
the schedule period previous to the current one, or has not received all
messages sent in that period (during that period or before).
3) Second DRX mode. The MS knows all the messages of interest sent in the
schedule period previous to the current one, and has received the first
schedule message of the current period.
More information about these modes is given below.
When a MS first enters a cell, or more generally when it knows no information
pertaining to a message slot, it should read the first block of each message
slot. According to the information found in this first block the MS can choose
to read the rest of the message slot. Typically it will do so when it is a
Schedule Message, or when it is an SMSCB message that it has not received
before, in that cell or in a another.
The complete reading of a first schedule message allows the MS to enter a
first DRX mode for the rest of the schedule period. In this mode the MS reads
the first block of each message slot for which the \"message identifier\", as
indicated in the Schedule Message, is of interest to the user until the end of
the schedule period, except that the MS may ignore retransmissions of messages
it has already received during the same schedule period.
When the MS has correctly read during a Schedule Period all messages of
interest for its user, it can enter a second DRX mode. In this mode, it reads
the first block of the CB message immediately after the end of the schedule
period. If it is not a schedule message, or if the reception fails, it reads
all first blocks until it receives a schedule message. In case of missed
reception of the very first block, it enters the second DRX mode only if the
first block of the next received schedule message shows that there is no gap
between the corresponding schedule period and the previous one (it is the only
way to be sure that there was no intervening schedule period). In the second
DRX mode, the MS can understand from the first block of the schedule message
how many new messages there are, when they will be transmitted, their message
identifiers if there are less than 6 new messages, and possibly the positions
of their repetitions. If the first block indicates that there are no new
messages, or sufficiently few so that their message identifiers and the
positions of their repetitions are known, the MS can refrain from reading the
other blocks of the Schedule Message. Otherwise it reads the next block, and
so on, until all the information pertaining to new messages is known. Then the
MS reads only the new messages with a message identifier of interest for its
user, and possibly corresponding repetitions in case of reception failures.
Free message slots can be used for different purposes by the network. MSs
wanting to save as much battery as possible at the expense of the delay for
receiving messages can skip those message slots. As a trade-off, MSs can
implement DRX with reception of the free messages slots with reading advised:
this will speed up reception of new messages, with a higher battery
consumption in proportion to the use of such messages slots by the network.
Free message slots with optional reading should be used typically for
unscheduled schedule messages, and can be skipped by mobile stations
implementing DRX.
The network can broadcast unscheduled SMSCB messages. The different
possibilities are as follows:
\- The network can send a new message in a free-usage message slot with
reading advised. MSs implementing DRX but reading the first block of message
slots so indicated will receive the message. The message must still be
indicated as \"new\" the first time it is sent scheduled in a schedule period.
\- The network can pre-empt a \"new\" message with a more recent \"new\"
message of the same message identifier if it happens that its first
transmission has not yet happened; this is the only case where all MSs will
read the unscheduled message. The network should repeat the pre-empting
message instead of the pre-empted one in the messages slots scheduled for the
repetitions of this message. If the pre-empted message is to be transmitted
later, it has to be sent as \"new\" in the next schedule period within which
it is sent.
\- If a message has been sent in the previous schedule period, the network can
pre-empt the first transmission in the schedule period with a more recent
message of the same message identifier. In this case, the MSs in second DRX
mode will not receive immediately the message, but will receive it in the next
schedule period if the message is repeated afterward (the network will
indicate it as a \"new\" message even if it has been sent in the previous
schedule period, since it would not have been scheduled during that period).
If the pre-empted message is to be transmitted again, it has to be sent as
\"new\" in the next schedule period within which it is sent.
\- If a message has been sent in the previous schedule period, the network can
pre-empt the first transmission in the schedule period with a more recent
message of a different message identifier. In this case, it is unlikely that a
mobile station implementing DRX will immediately receive the message, it will
receive it in the next schedule period if the message is repeated afterward
(the network will indicate it as a \"new\" message even if it has been sent in
the previous schedule period, since it would not have been scheduled during
that period). The pre-empted message has to be sent as \"new\" in the next
schedule period within which it is sent.
\- The network can pre-empt a retransmission (of the same message identifier
or not), or send the new message in a free message slot of optional reading.
In these cases it is unlikely that a MS implementing DRX will receive it at
that moment.
In free message slots the network can broadcast for instance unscheduled
Schedule Messages. These messages hasten the entry into DRX mode of fast-
moving MSs.
#