# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the procedures used at the CTS system interface
with the supervision part i.e. the interface between the CTS-FP and the CTS-
SN.
Only CTS regular supervising procedures are described; FMC management is not
intended to be standardised.
The present document does not specify the transmission layer but only the
layer 3.
When the notations for \"further study\" or \"FS\" or \"FFS\" are present in
the present document they mean that the indicated text is not a normative
portion of the present document.
The structured functions and procedures of this protocol and the relationship
with other layers and entities are described in general terms in GSM 04.07.
## 1.1 Scope of the Technical Specification
The procedures currently described in the present document are for supervising
management over the CTS-FP/CTS-SN interface.
## 1.2 Application to the interface structures
The layer 3 procedures apply to the interface structures defined in GSM 04.03.
GSM 04.07 gives the general description of layer 3 including procedures,
messages format and error handling.
## 1.3 Structure of layer 3 procedures
A building block method is used to describe the layer 3 procedures.
The basic building blocks are \"elementary procedures\" provided by the
protocol control entities.
Complete layer 3 transactions consist of specific sequences of elementary
procedures. The term \"structured procedure\" is used for these sequences.
## 1.4 Test procedures
Test procedures of the CTS / Fixed Network interface signalling are described
in the GSM 11.56 series.
## 1.5 Transmission layer
The transmission layer is out of scope of the present document. One
implementation could be a V.22bis modem with an HDLC based protocol.
## 1.6 Overview of control procedures
### 1.6.1 List of procedures
The following procedures are specified in the present document:
\- Clause 4 specifies elementary procedures for CTS Supervising Management:
\- CTS-FP initialisation procedure (subclause 4.4.1);
\- CTS-FP de-initialisation procedure (subclause 4.4.5);
\- CTS enrolment procedure (subclause 4.4.2);
\- CTS de-enrolment procedure (subclause 4.4.6);
\- CTS operation data update procedure (subclause 4.4.3);
\- CTS information request procedure (subclause 4.4.4);
\- CTS FP authentication procedure (subclause 4.4.7);
\- CTS MS authentication procedure (subclause 4.4.8).
The elementary procedures can be combined to form structured procedures.
Examples of such structured procedures are given in clause 5. This part of the
Technical Specification is only provided for guidance to assist
implementations.
Clause 6 specifies actions to be taken on various error conditions and also
provides rules to ensure compatibility with future enhancements of the
protocol.
## 1.7 Applicability of implementations
The applicability of procedures of the present document for the fixed part is
dependent on the services and functions which are to be supported by a fixed
part.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 01.02: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
General description of a GSM Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)\".
[2] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[3] GSM 02.02: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Bearer
Services (BS) supported by a GSM Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)\".
[4] GSM 02.03: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Teleservices supported by a GSM Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)\".
[5] GSM 02.09: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Security aspects\".
[6] GSM 02.11: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Service accessibility\".
[7] GSM 02.17: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Subscriber Identity Modules (SIM); Functional characteristics\".
[8] GSM 02.40: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Procedures for call progress indications\".
[9] GSM 03.01: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Network functions\".
[10] GSM 03.03: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[11] GSM 03.13: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Discontinuous Reception (DRX) in the GSM system\".
[12] GSM 03.14: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Support of Dual Tone Multi‑Frequency signalling (DTMF) via the GSM system\".
[13] GSM 03.20: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Security related network functions\".
[14] GSM 03.22: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Functions related to Mobile Station (MS) in idle mode and group receive
mode\".
[15] GSM 04.02: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); GSM
Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) access reference configuration\".
[16] GSM 04.03: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Mobile Station - Base Station System (MS - BSS) interface; Channel structures
and access capabilities\".
[17] GSM 04.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Layer
1; General requirements\".
[18] GSM 04.05: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Data
Link (DL) layer; General aspects\".
[19] GSM 04.06: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Mobile Station - Base Station System (MS - BSS) interface; Data Link (DL)
layer specification\".
[20] GSM 04.07: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General aspects\".
[21] GSM 04.10: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Mobile radio interface layer 3; Supplementary services specification; General
aspects\".
[22] GSM 04.11: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Point-to-Point (PP) Short Message Service (SMS) support on mobile radio
interface\".
[23] GSM 04.12: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Short
Message Service Cell Broadcast (SMSCB) support on the mobile radio
interface\".
[24] GSM 04.80: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary services specification; Formats
and coding\".
[25] GSM 04.81: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Line
identification supplementary services; Stage 3\".
[26] GSM 04.82: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Call
Forwarding (CF) supplementary services; Stage 3\".
[27] GSM 04.83: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Call
Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary services; Stage 3\".
[28] GSM 04.84: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services; Stage 3\".
[29] GSM 04.85: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services; Stage 3\".
[30] GSM 04.86: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Advice of Charge (AoC) supplementary services; Stage 3\".
[31] GSM 04.88: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Call
Barring (CB) supplementary services; Stage 3\".
[32] GSM 05.02: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Multiplexing and multiple access on the radio path\".
[33] GSM 05.05: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Radio
transmission and reception\".
[34] GSM 05.08: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Radio
subsystem link control\".
[35] GSM 05.10: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Radio
subsystem synchronization\".
[36] GSM 07.01: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
General on Terminal Adaptation Functions (TAF) for Mobile Stations (MS)\".
[37] GSM 09.02: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[38] GSM 09.07: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
General requirements on interworking between the Public Land Mobile Network
(PLMN) and the Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) or Public Switched
Telephone Network (PSTN)\".
[39] GSM 11.10: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Mobile Station (MS) conformance specification\".
[40] GSM 11.21: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Base
Station System (BSS) equipment specification\".
[41] ISO/IEC 646 (1991): \"Information technology - ISO 7-bit coded character
set for information interchange\".
[42] ISO/IEC 6429: \"Information technology - Control functions for coded
character sets\".
[43] ISO 8348 (1987) (Addendum 2): \"Information processing systems - Data
communications - Network service definition\".
[44] ITU-T Recommendation E.163: \"Numbering plan for the international
telephone service\".
[45] ITU-T Recommendation E.164: \"The international public telecommunication
numbering plan\".
[46] ITU-T Recommendation E.212: \"The international identification plan for
mobile terminals and mobile users\".
[47] ITU-T Recommendation F.69 (1993): \"The international telex service -
Service and operational provisions of telex destination codes and telex
network identification codes\".
[48] ITU-T Recommendation I.330: \"ISDN numbering and addressing principles\".
[49] ITU-T Recommendation I.440 (1989): \"ISDN user-network interface data
link layer - General aspects\".
[50] ITU-T Recommendation I.450 (1989): \"ISDN user-network interface layer 3
- General aspects\".
[51] ITU-T Recommendation I.500 (1993): \"General structure of the ISDN
interworking recommendations\".
[52] ITU-T Recommendation T.50: \"International Reference Alphabet (IRA)
(Formerly International Alphabet No. 5 or IA5) - Information technology -
7-bit coded character set for information interchange\".
[53] ITU-T Recommendation Q.931: ISDN user-network interface layer 3
specification for basic control\".
[54] ITU-T Recommendation V.21: \"300 bits per second duplex modem
standardized for use in the general switched telephone network\".
[55] ITU-T Recommendation V.22: \"1200 bits per second duplex modem
standardized for use in the general switched telephone network and on point-
to-point 2-wire leased telephone-type circuits\".
[56] ITU-T Recommendation V.22bis: \"2400 bits per second duplex modem using
the frequency division technique standardized for use on the general switched
telephone network and on point-to-point 2-wire leased telephone-type
circuits\".
[57] ITU-T Recommendation V.23: \"600/1200-baud modem standardized for use in
the general switched telephone network\".
[58] ITU-T Recommendation V.26ter: \"2400 bits per second duplex modem using
the echo cancellation technique standardized for use on the general switched
telephone network and on point-to-point 2-wire leased telephone-type
circuits\".
[59] ITU-T Recommendation V.32: \"A family of 2-wire, duplex modems operating
at data signalling rates of up to 9600 bit/s for use on the general switched
telephone network and on leased telephone-type circuits\".
[60] ITU-T Recommendation V.110: \"Support by an ISDN of data terminal
equipments with V-Series type interfaces\".
[61] ITU-T Recommendation V.120: \"Support by an ISDN of data terminal
equipment with V-Series type interfaces with provision for statistical
multiplexing\".
[62] ITU-T Recommendation X.21: \"Interface between Data Terminal Equipment
and Data Circuit‑terminating Equipment for synchronous operation on public
data networks\".
[63] ITU-T Recommendation X.25: \"Interface between Data Terminal Equipment
(DTE) and Data Circuit-terminating Equipment (DCE) for terminals operating in
the packet mode and connected to public data networks by dedicated circuit\".
[64] ITU-T Recommendation X.28: \"DTE/DCE interface for a start-stop mode Data
Terminal Equipment accessing the Packet Assembly/Disassembly facility (PAD) in
a public data network situated in the same country\".
[65] ITU-T Recommendation X.30: \"Support of X.21, X.21 bis and X.20 bis based
Data Terminal Equipments (DTEs) by an Integrated Services Digital Network
(ISDN)\".
[66] ITU-T Recommendation X.31: \"Support of packet mode terminal equipment by
an ISDN\".
[67] ITU-T Recommendation X.32: \"Interface between Data Terminal Equipment
(DTE) and Data Circuit-terminating Equipment (DCE) for terminals operating in
the packet mode and accessing a packet-switched public data network through a
public switched telephone network or an integrated services digital network or
a circuit-switched public data network\".
[68] ITU-T Recommendation X.75 (1988): \"Packet-switched signalling system
between public networks providing data transmission services\".
[69] ITU-T Recommendation X.121: \"International numbering plan for public
data networks\".
[70] ETSI ETS 300 102-1: \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN); User-
network interface layer 3; Specifications for basic call control\".
[71] ETSI ETS 300 102-2: \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN); User-
network interface layer 3; Specifications for basic call control;
Specification Description Language (SDL) diagrams\".
[72] ISO/IEC 10646: \"Information technology - Universal Multiple-Octet Coded
Character Set (UCS)\".
[73] GSM 02.56: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); GSM
Cordless Telephony System (CTS), Phase 1; Service description; Stage 1\".
[74] GSM 03.56: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); GSM
Cordless Telephony System (CTS), Phase 1; CTS Architecture Description; Stage
2\".
[75] GSM 03.52: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); GSM-
CTS; Overall description of the CTS radio interface; Stage 2\".
[76] Void.
[77] GSM 04.56: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); GSM
Cordless Telephony System (CTS), Phase 1; CTS radio interface layer 3
specification\".
# 3 Definitions, abbreviations and Random values
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**initialised Fixed Part:** Fixed Part which have been supplied with the
necessary data to provide CTS service on the CTS radio interface. The CTS-FP
initialisation procedure is performed at the Fixed Part installation and can
be performed whenever the Fixed Part have been de-initialised.
**de-initialised Fixed Part:** Fixed Part which does not contain the required
data to offer CTS service. A de-initialised Fixed Part cannot offer any
service.
**enrolled Mobile Station:** Mobile Station is said to be enrolled on a Fixed
Part if it has exchanged some data with this Fixed Part enabling attachement
(e.g.in order to perform outgoing calls).
**de-enrolled Mobile Station:** Mobile Station that is no more known by the
Fixed Part.
**CTS radio interface:** Radio interface between the Mobile Station and the
Fixed Part.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in GSM 01.04
apply.
## 3.3 Random values
In a number of places in the present document, it is mentioned that some value
must take a \"random\" value, in a given range, or more generally with some
statistical distribution.
It is required that there is a low probability that two equipments in the same
conditions (including the case of two equipments of the same type from the
same manufacturer) will choose or get the same value.
# 4 CTS supervising management procedures
## 4.1 General
CTS supervising management procedures include the functions related to the
management of the CTS system by the CTS operator. These functions are based
on:
\- radio control: the control of the radio parameters used on the CTS radio
interface;
\- security control: including subscription checking, CTS authentication (the
authentication of the CTS subscriber identity by the CTS Service Node and the
authentication of the signature issued by the Service Node by the Fixed Part),
GSM authentication (authentication of the Mobile Station by the GSM operator
through the Service Node) and administrative data management.
All the CTS supervising procedures can only be performed if a CTS-FP/CTS-SN
connection has been established between the fixed part and the service node.
If no CTS-FP/CTS-SN connection is currently established, the CTS supervising
layer has to initiate such establishment.
As in most cases, the CTS-SN has no means of addressing the CTS-FP, it is
assumed that the CTS procedures can only be started by the fixed part. CTS
procedures initiated by the Service Node follow a procedure started by the
Fixed Part.
## 4.2 CTS-SPM procedures
All CTS-SPM procedures can only be initiated if a CTS-FP/CTS-SN connection is
established.
The procedures initiated by the Fixed Part are:
\- CTS-SPM initialisation procedure;
\- CTS-SPM enrolment procedure;
\- CTS-SPM de-enrolment indication procedure;
\- CTS-SPM operation data update procedure.
The procedures initiated by the Service Node (following a procedure started by
the Fixed Part) are:
\- CTS-SPM de-initialisation procedure;
\- CTS-SPM de-enrolment procedure;
\- CTS-SPM FP authentication procedure;
\- CTS-SPM MS authentication procedure;
\- CTS-SPM signature mode setting procedure;
\- CTS-SPM operation data inform procedure.
## 4.3 CTS-SPM states
### 4.3.1 CTS-SPM states at the Fixed Part
  1. IDLE
The CTS-SPM state is not active.
  2. WAIT FOR CTS-FP/CTS-SN CONNECTION
The CTS-SPM has requested the establishment of a CTS-FP/CTS-SN connection.
  3. CTS-SPM CONNECTION ACTIVE
A CTS-SPM connection is active. Only one CTS-SPM connection can be active at a
time.
  4. CTS-SPM INITIALISATION INITIATED
The CTS-FP initialisation procedure has been started at the Fixed Part.
  5. CTS-SPM ENROLMENT INITIATED
The enrolment procedure has been started at the Fixed Part.
  6. CTS-SPM OPERATION DATA UPDATE INITIATED
The operation data update procedure has been started at the Fixed Part.
Only one CTS-SPM connection can be active at a time on the Fixed Part.
Nevertheless, an active CTS-SPM connection does not preclude having active
CTS-RR and CTS-MM active connection on the CTS radio interface.
### 4.3.2 CTS-SPM states at the Service Node
  1. CTS-SPM DE-INITIALISATION INITIATED
The CTS-FP de-initialisation procedure has been started by the Service Node.
  2. CTS-SPM DE-ENROLMENT INITIATED
The de-enrolment procedure has been started by the Service Node.
  3. CTS-SPM INFORMATION DATA INITIATED
The information data request procedure has been started by the Service Node.
  4. CTS-SPM FP AUTHENTICATION INITIATED
The FP authentication procedure has been started by the Service Node.
  5. CTS-SPM MS AUTHENTICATION INITIATED
The MS authentication procedure has been started by the Service Node.
## 4.4 CTS-SPM common procedures
### 4.4.1 CTS-FP initialisation procedure
The purpose of the CTS-FP initialisation procedure is to provide the fixed
part with the necessary data to enable CTS service.
The CTS-FP initialisation procedure is always initiated by the CTS-FP.
#### 4.4.1.1 CTS-FP initialisation initiation
The fixed part initiates the CTS-FP initialisation procedure by sending a CTS-
SPM INITIALISATION REQUEST message to the CTS-SN and starts the timer
T_init_FP.
The CTS-SPM INITIALISATION REQUEST message specifies the fixed part identity,
and the classmark of the fixed part.
The CTS-SPM INITIALISATION REQUEST message is sent on the CTS-FP/CTS-SN
interface following a CTS-FP/CTS-SN connection initiated by the CTS fixed
part.
#### 4.4.1.2 CTS-FP initialisation completion
If the CTS-FP initialisation can be performed, the service node shall send a
CTS-SPM INITIALISATION ACCEPT to the fixed part. This message includes the
necessary radio parameters to enable operation on the CTS interface. These
data are associated to timers that are also sent in the message. The validity
period (Tval) timer indicates the maximum duration where those data should be
used. The recall period (Trecal) requires the fixed part to contact the
service node on a regular basis. The recall period should enable the fixed
part to update the necessary data before the validity period expires. If Tval
and Trecal are not included in the CTS-SPM INITIALISATION ACCEPT message,
their values are considered as being infinite.
Upon reception of this message, the fixed part stops the timer T_init_FP.
The service node shall send a CTS-SPM INITIALISATION REJECT if the rights are
not verified.
When, the fixed part has received and accepted the necessary data in order to
operate, it sends a CTS-SPM INITIALISATION COMPLETE to the service node.
### 4.4.2 CTS enrolment procedure
The enrolment of a mobile station onto a fixed part is the procedure by which
a mobile and a fixed part are made known to each other in order that the CTS
service can be provided to the mobile station. This procedure can be performed
under the control of the CTS operator depending on the information downloaded
by the operator at subscription setting. The enrolment procedure performed
locally between the mobile station and the fixed part is described in GSM
04.56.
If required by the CTS operator, the additional CTS-SPM enrolment procedure
should be performed.
The CTS-SPM enrolment procedure is initiated by the fixed part following a
successful first part local enrolment procedure.
#### 4.4.2.1 CTS-SPM enrolment initiation
The fixed part initiates the CTS-SPM enrolment procedure by sending the
message CTS-SPM ENROLMENT REQUEST message and starting a timer T_enrol_FP.
The CTS-SPM ENROLMENT REQUEST message specifies the fixed part identity and
the mobile identity.
#### 4.4.2.2 CTS enrolment completion
If the service node agrees to enrol the mobile onto the fixed part, the
service node sends a CTS-SPM ENROLMENT ACCEPT message. This message may
include an enrolment validity time; if this information element is not
included in the message, the enrolment validity period is considered as being
infinite.
Similarly, the service node shall send a CTS-SPM ENROLMENT REJECT if the
request cannot be granted with the reject cause. Upon reception of CTS-SPM
ENROLMENT ACCEPT or CTS-SPM ENROLMENT REJECT message, the fixed part stops
timer T_enrol_FP.
### 4.4.3 CTS operation data update procedure
The purpose of the CTS operation data update procedure is to provide the fixed
part with the necessary data to operate. Before performing the operation data
update procedure the fixed part has to be initialised.
This procedure is launched by the fixed part at the expiry of timer Trecal.
The duration of Trecal is defined by the service node during the CTS-FP
initialisation procedure.
#### 4.4.3.1 CTS operation data update initiation
The fixed part initiates the CTS operation data update procedure by sending
the message CTS-SPM OPERATION DATA REQUEST message and starting timer
T_opdata_FP.
#### 4.4.3.2 CTS operation data update completion
The service node sends the required data in a CTS-SPM OPERATION DATA DELIVER
message. Upon reception of this message the fixed part stops timer
T_opdata_FP.
The sent operation data are associated to 2 timers. The validity period (Tval)
timer indicates the maximum duration where those data should be used. The
recall period (Trecal) requires the fixed part to contact the service node on
a regular basis. The recall period should enable the fixed part to update the
necessary data before the validity period expires. If Tval and Trecal are not
included in the CTS-SPM OPERATION DATA DELIVER message, there value are
considered as being inifinite.
If the data are accepted by the fixed part, the fixed part shall send a CTS-
SPM OPERATION DATA ACCEPT to the service node and shall launch the timers Tval
and Trecal related to the corresponding data, if the application time Tapplic
information element is set to \"apply immediately\". Otherwise, the fixed part
stores the new operation data and starts timer Tapplic. At Tapplic expiry, the
fixed part applies the new operation data and starts the associated timers
Tval and Trecal.
Similarly, the fixed part shall send CTS-SPM OPERATION DATA REJECT if the data
cannot be accepted (i.e. the fixed part did not succeed in authenticating the
signature issued by the service node).
### 4.4.4 CTS Information data request procedure
In some cases the service node may require to be informed of the data used by
fixed part. The CTS Information data procedure can be initiated during any
procedure started by the fixed part (e.g. enrolment procedure, operation data
update procedure).
#### 4.4.4.1 CTS Information data request
The service node initiates the CTS information data request procedure by
sending a CTS-SPM INFORMATION DATA REQUEST message to the fixed part.
Upon receipt of the CTS-SPM INFORMATION DATA REQUEST message the fixed part
collects the required data.
#### 4.4.4.2 CTS Information data response
The fixed part sends a CTS-SPM INFORMATION DATA RESPONSE to the service node
including these data.
### 4.4.5 CTS-FP de-initialisation procedure
The purpose of the CTS-FP de-initialisation procedure is to allow the CTS
operator to de-initialise a given fixed part. As the fixed part has no means
to address a given fixed part, this procedures follows another procedure
initiated by the fixed part.
#### 4.4.5.1 CTS-FP de-initialisation initiation
The service node initiates the CTS-FP de-initialisation procedure by sending a
CTS-SPM DE-INITIALISATION REQUEST message to the fixed part and starts the
timer T_deinit_SN. Upon receipt of the CTS-SPM DE-INITIALISATION REQUEST
message the fixed part stops operation.
#### 4.4.5.2 CTS de-initialisation completion
As a response to the message the fixed part sends a CTS-SPM DE-INITIALISATION
COMPLETE message.
If the fixed part does not accept the de-initialisation command (i.e. the
fixed part did not succeed in authenticating the signature issued by the
service node) it sends a CTS-SPM DE-INITIALISATION REJECT message to the
service node. Upon reception of either CTS-SPM DE-INITIALISATION COMPLETE or
CTS-SPM DE-INITIALISATION REJECT, the service node stops timer T_deinit_SN.
### 4.4.6 CTS-SPM de-enrolment procedure
The CTS-SPM de-enrolment of a mobile from a fixed part can be initiated either
by the fixed part or by the service node.
#### 4.4.6.1 CTS-SPM de-enrolment initiated by the fixed part
If the CTS-SPM de-enrolment procedure is initiated by the fixed part, the
fixed part informs the service node of the mobile de-enrolment if specified by
the operator at subscription setting, by sending a CTS-SPM DE-ENROLMENT
INDICATION.
If the de-enrolment is initiated by the service node, the following procedure
applies.
#### 4.4.6.2 CTS-SPM de-enrolment initiated by the service node
The service node initiates the CTS-SPM de-enrolment procedure by sending a
CTS-SPM DE-ENROLMENT REQUEST command to the fixed part including the mobile
identity.
Upon reception of the de-enrolment message, the fixed part performs de-
enrolment of the specified mobile and responds by sending a CTS-SPM DE-
ENROLMENT COMPLETE.
### 4.4.7 CTS FP authentication procedure
The purpose of the fixed part authentication procedure is twofold:
First to permit the network to check whether the identity provided by the
fixed part is acceptable or not.
Second to provide parameters enabling the service node and the fixed part to
calculate the signature key.
The cases where the authentication procedure should be used are defined in GSM
03.56.
The fixed part authentication procedure is always initiated and controlled by
the CTS operator.
#### 4.4.7.1 CTS FP authentication request
The service node initiates the CTS FP authentication procedure by sending a
CTS-SPM FP AUTHENTICATION REQUEST message to the fixed part and starting timer
T_FPauth_SN.
Upon receipt of the CTS-SPM FP authentication REQUEST message the fixed part
calculates the response (see GSM 03.20 annex E).
#### 4.4.7.2 CTS FP authentication response
The fixed part processes a challenge response and sends it to the service node
in a CTS-SPM FP AUTHENTICATION RESPONSE message. Upon reception of this
message, the service node stops timer T_FPauth_SN.
If the FP authentication fails the service node replies with a CTS-SPM FP
AUTHENTICATION REJECT message.
### 4.4.8 CTS MS authentication procedure
Mobile authentication can be performed if required by the CTS operator. The
procedure is similar to the GSM authentication procedure and aims to
authenticate the mobile subscriber identity (the ciphering key is not required
as no encryption applies through the CTS-FP/CTS-SN interface).
The mobile authentication procedure is always initiated and controlled by the
service node.
#### 4.4.8.1 CTS MS authentication request
The service node initiates the mobile authentication procedure by sending a
CTS-SPM MS AUTHENTICATION REQUEST message to the fixed part and starts timer
T_MSauth_SN. The fixed part acts as a relay and sends that request message to
the mobile station.
#### 4.4.8.2 CTS MS authentication response
When the challenge response is transmitted from the mobile to the fixed part
in a procedure described in GSM 04.56, the fixed part sends it to the service
node in a CTS-SPM MS AUTHENTICATION RESPONSE message. The service node stops
timer T_MSauth_SN.
If the authentication fails the service node replies with a CTS-SPM MS
AUTHENTICATION REJECT message.
# 5 Examples of structured procedures
Clause 5 is informative.
## 5.1 CTS-FP Initialisation
The CTS-FP initialisation procedure is always initiated by the fixed part.
> Fixed Part Service Node
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| \| CTS-FP/CTS-SN connection
>
> +── ──+
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| CTS-SPM INITIALISATION REQUEST \|
>
> \| ───────────────────────────────────────> \| Service request
>
> \| \|
>
> +── ──+
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| CTS-SPM FP AUTHENTICATION REQUEST \| FP
>
> \| \
> \| CTS-SPM FP AUTHENTICATION RESPONSE \|
>
> \| ───────────────────────────────────────> \|
>
> +── ──+
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| CTS-SPM INITIALISATION ACCEPT \|
>
> \| \
> +── ──+
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| CTS-SPM SN SIGNING MODE COMMAND \|
>
> \| \
> +── ──+
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| CTS-SPM OPERATION DATA REQUEST \|
>
> \| ───────────────────────────────────────> \| Data transmission
>
> \| CTS-SPM OPERATION DATA DELIVER \|
>
> \| \
> +── ──+
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| CTS-SPM INITIALISATION COMPLETE \|
>
> \| ───────────────────────────────────────> \|
>
> +── ──+
Figure 5.1/GSM 04.xx: CTS-FP initialisation
## 5.2 CTS-SPM Enrolment
The CTS-SPM enrolment procedure is always initiated by the fixed part
following an initiation by the mobile station.
> Fixed Part Service Node
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| \| CTS-FP/CTS-SN connection
>
> +── ──+
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| CTS-SPM ENROLMENT REQUEST
>
> \| ───────────────────────────────────────> \| Service request
>
> \| \|
>
> +── ──+
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| CTS-SPM FP AUTHENTICATION REQUEST \| FP
>
> \| \
> \| CTS-SPM FP AUTHENTICATION RESPONSE \|
>
> \| ───────────────────────────────────────> \|
>
> +── ──+
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| CTS-SPM MS AUTHENTICATION REQUEST \| MS
>
> \| \
> \| CTS-SPM MS AUTHENTICATION RESPONSE \|
>
> \| ───────────────────────────────────────> \|
>
> +── ──+
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| CTS-SPM ENROLMENT ACCEPT \|
>
> \| \
> +── ──+
Figure 5.2/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM Enrolment
## 5.3 Operation data update
The operation data update procedure is always initiated by the fixed part.
> Fixed Part Service Node
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| \| CTS-FP/CTS-SN connection
>
> +── ──+
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| CTS-SPM OPERATION DATA REQUEST \|
>
> \| ───────────────────────────────────────> \| Service request
>
> +── ──+
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| CTS-SPM FP AUTHENTICATION REQUEST \| FP
>
> \| \
> \| CTS-SPM FP AUTHENTICATION RESPONSE \|
>
> \| ───────────────────────────────────────> \|
>
> +── ──+
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| CTS-SPM SN SIGNING MODE COMMAND \|
>
> \| \
> +── ──+
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| CTS-SPM OPERATION DATA DELIVER \|
>
> \| \
> +── ──+
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| CTS-SPM OPERATION DATA ACCEPT \|
>
> \| ───────────────────────────────────────> \|
>
> +── ──+
Figure 5.3/GSM 04.xx: CTS operation data update
## 5.4 Information request
The information request procedure is always initiated by the service node (the
CTS-FP/CTS-SN connection is initiated by the fixed part).
> Fixed Part Service Node
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| \| CTS-FP/CTS-SN connection
>
> +── ──+
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| \| Other procedure
>
> +── ──+
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| CTS-SPM INFORMATION DATA REQUEST \|
>
> \| \
> \| CTS-SPM INFORMATION DATA RESPONSE \|
>
> \| ───────────────────────────────────────> \|
>
> +── ──+
Figure 5.4/GSM 04.xx: Information request procedure
## 5.5 CTS-FP De-initialisation
The CTS-FP de-initialisation procedure is always initiated by the service node
(the CTS-FP/CTS-SN connection is initiated by the fixed part).
> Fixed Part Service Node
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| \| CTS-FP/CTS-SN connection
>
> +── ──+
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| \| Other procedure
>
> +── ──+
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| CTS-SPM DE-INITIALISATION REQUEST \|
>
> \| \
> \| CTS-SPM DE-INITIALISATION COMPLETE \|
>
> \| ───────────────────────────────────────> \|
>
> +── ──+
Figure 5.5/GSM 04.xx: CTS-FP De-initialisation procedure
## 5.6 CTS-SPM De-enrolment
The de-enrolment procedure can be either initiated by the fixed part or by the
service node.
### 5.6.1 CTS-SPM De-enrolment initiated by the fixed part
The de-enrolment indication is sent by the fixed part to the service node.
> Fixed Part Service Node
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| \| CTS-FP/CTS-SN connection
>
> +── ──+
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| CTS-SPM DE-ENROLMENT INDICATION \|
>
> \| ───────────────────────────────────────> \|
>
> +── ──+
Figure 5.6/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM De-enrolment indication
### 5.6.2 CTS-SPM De-enrolment initiated by the service node
The de-enrolment request is sent by the service node.
> Fixed Part Service Node
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| \| CTS-FP/CTS-SN connection
>
> +── ──+
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| \| Other procedure
>
> +── ──+
>
> +── ──+
>
> \| CTS-SPM DE-ENROLMENT REQUEST \|
>
> \| \
> \| CTS-SPM DE-ENROLMENT COMPLETE \|
>
> \| ───────────────────────────────────────> \|
>
> +── ──+
Figure 5.7/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM De-enrolment request
# 6 Handling of unknown, unforeseen, and erroneous protocol data
Please refer to clause 8 of GSM 04.08.
# 7 Message functional definitions and contents
This clause defines the structure of the messages of those layer 3 protocols
defined in GSM 04.xx. These are standard L3 messages as defined in GSM 04.07.
Each definition given in the present clause includes:
a) a brief description of the message direction and use, including whether the
message has:
1) Local significance, i.e. relevant only on the originating or terminating
access;
2) Access significance, i.e. relevant in the originating and terminating
access, but not in the CTS‑FP;
3) Dual significance, i.e. relevant in either the originating or terminating
access and in the network; or
4) Global significance, i.e. relevant in the originating and terminating
access and in the network.
b) a table listing the information elements known in the message and their
order of their appearance in the message. All information elements that may be
repeated are explicitly indicated. ( V and LV formatted IEs, which compose the
imperative part of the message, occur before T, TV, and TLV formatted IEs
which compose the non-imperative part of the message, see GSM 04.07.) In a
(maximal) sequence of consecutive information elements with half octet length,
the first information element with half octet length occupies bits 1 to 4 of
octet N, the second bits 5 to 8 of octet N, the third bits 1 to 4 of octet N+1
etc. Such a sequence always has an even number of elements.
For each information element the table indicates:
1) the information element identifier, in hexadecimal notation, if the IE has
format T, TV, or TLV. Usually, there is a default IEI for an information
element type; default IEIs of different IE types of the same protocol are
different. If the IEI has half octet length, it is specified by a notation
representing the IEI as a hexadecimal digit followed by a \"-\" (example: B-).
NOTE: The same IEI may be used for different information element types in
different messages of the same protocol.
2) the name of the information element (which may give an idea of the
semantics of the element). The name of the information element (usually
written in italics) followed by \"IE\" or \"information element\" is used as
reference to the information element within a message.
3) the name of the type of the information element (which indicates the coding
of the value part of the IE), and generally, the referenced subclause of
clause 8 of GSM 04.xx describing the value part of the information element.
4) the presence requirement indication (M, C, or O) for the IE as defined in
GSM 04.07.
5) the format of the information element (T, V, TV, LV, TLV) as defined in GSM
04.07.
6) the length of the information element (or permissible range of lengths), in
octets, in the message, where \"?\" means that the maximum length of the IE is
only constrained by link layer protocol, and in the case of the Facility IE by
possible further conditions specified in GSM 04.10. This indication is non-
normative.
c) subclauses specifying, where appropriate, conditions for IEs with presence
requirement C or O in the relevant message which together with other
conditions specified in GSM 04.xx define when the information elements shall
be included or not, what non-presence of such IEs means, and - for IEs with
presence requirement C - the static conditions for presence and/or non-
presence of the IEs (see GSM 04.07).
## 7.1 Messages for CTS Supervising management
Table 7.1/GSM 04.xx summarises the messages for Supervising management.
Table 7.1/GSM 04.xx: Messages for CTS supervising management
* * *
CTS-FP Initialisation messages: Reference CTS-SPM INITIALISATION REQUEST 7.1.1
CTS-SPM INITIALISATION ACCEPT 7.1.2 CTS-SPM INITIALISATION COMPLETE 7.1.3 CTS-
SPM INITIALISATION REJECT 7.1.4 CTS-SPM DE-INITIALISATION REQUEST 7.1.5 CTS-
SPM DE-INITIALISATION COMPLETE 7.1.6 CTS-SPM DE-INITIALISATION REJECT 7.1.7
Enrolment messages: **Reference** CTS-SPM ENROLMENT REQUEST 7.1.8 CTS-SPM
ENROLMENT ACCEPT 7.1.9 CTS-SPM ENROLMENT REJECT 7.1.10 CTS-SPM DE-ENROLMENT
INDICATION 7.1.11 CTS-SPM DE-ENROLMENT REQUEST 7.1.12 CTS-SPM DE-ENROLMENT
COMPLETE 7.1.13 CTS-SPM DE-ENROLMENT REJECT 7.1.14 Operation data update
messages: **Reference** CTS-SPM OPERATION DATA REQUEST 7.1.15 CTS-SPM
OPERATION DATA DELIVER 7.1.16 CTS-SPM OPERATION DATA ACCEPT 7.1.17 CTS-SPM
OPERATION DATA REJECT 7.1.18 CTS-SPM INFORMATION DATA REQUEST 7.1.19 CTS-SPM
INFORMATION DATA RESPONSE 7.1.20 FP Authentication messages: **Reference**
CTS-SPM FP AUTHENTICATION REQUEST 7.1.21 CTS-SPM FP AUTHENTICATION RESPONSE
7.1.22 CTS-SPM FP AUTHENTICATION REJECT 7.1.23 MS Authentication messages:
**Reference** CTS-SPM MS AUTHENTICATION REQUEST 7.1.24 CTS-SPM MS
AUTHENTICATION RESPONSE 7.1.25 CTS-SPM MS AUTHENTICATION REJECT 7.1.26 SN
Authentication messages: **Reference** CTS-SPM SN SIGNING MODE COMMAND 7.1.27
* * *
### 7.1.1 CTS-FP initialisation request
This message is sent by the fixed part to the service node to indicate to
request initialisation on this fixed part. See table 7.2/GSM 04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM INITIALISATION REQUEST
Significance: dual
Direction: fixed part to service node
Table 7.2/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM INITIALISATION REQUEST message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type / Reference Presence Format Length CTS
supervising management Protocol discriminator M V 1/2 protocol discriminator
subclause 8.2  
Skip Indicator Skip Indicator M V 1/2 subclause 8.3.1  
CTS initialisation request Message type M V 1 message type subclause 8.4  
Fixed Part Fixed Part M V 1 Classmark Classmark  
subclause 8.4.1.6  
Fixed Part identity Fixed Part identity M LV 2 - 9 subclause 8.4.1.4
* * *
### 7.1.2 CTS-FP initialisation accept
This message is sent by the service node to the fixed part to indicate that
initialisation of the fixed part is accepted. See table 7.3/GSM 04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM INITIALISATION ACCEPT
Significance: dual
Direction: service node to fixed part
Table 7.3/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM INITIALISATION ACCEPT message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type / Reference Presence Format Length CTS
supervising management Protocol discriminator M V 1/2 protocol discriminator
subclause 8.2  
Skip Indicator Skip Indicator M V 1/2 subclause 8.3.1  
CTS initialisation accept Message type M V 1 message type subclause 8.4
* * *
### 7.1.3 CTS-FP initialisation complete
This message is sent by the fixed part to the service node to indicate that
initialisation of the fixed part has been completed. See table 7.4/GSM 04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM INITIALISATION COMPLETE
Significance: dual
Direction: fixed part to service node
Table 7.4/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM INITIALISATION COMPLETE message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type / Reference Presence Format Length CTS
supervising management Protocol discriminator M V 1/2 protocol discriminator
subclause 8.2  
Skip Indicator Skip Indicator M V 1/2 subclause 8.3.1  
CTS initialisation complete Message type M V 1 message type subclause 8.4
* * *
### 7.1.4 CTS-FP initialisation reject
This message is sent by the service node to the the fixed part to indicate
that the requested initialisation has been rejected. See table 7.5/GSM 04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM INITIALISATION REJECT
Significance: dual
Direction: service node to fixed part
Table 7.5/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM INITIALISATION REJECT message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type / Reference Presence Format Length CTS
supervising management Protocol discriminator M V 1/2 protocol discriminator
subclause 8.2  
Skip Indicator Skip Indicator M V 1/2 subclause 8.3.1  
CTS initialisation reject Message type M V 1 message type subclause 8.4  
Reject cause Reject cause M V 1 subclause 8.x
* * *
### 7.1.5 CTS-FP de-initialisation request
This message is sent by the service node to the fixed part to indicate to
request de-initialisation on this fixed part. See table 7.6/GSM 04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM DE-INITIALISATION REQUEST
Significance: dual
Direction: service node to fixed part
Table 7.6/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM DE-INITIALISATION REQUEST message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type / Reference Presence Format Length CTS
supervising management Protocol discriminator M V ½ protocol discriminator
subclause 8.2  
Skip Indicator Skip Indicator M V ½ subclause 8.3.1  
CTS de-initialisation request Message type M V 1 message type subclause 8.4  
Fixed part Fixed Part M V 1 Classmark Classmark  
subclause 8.4.1.6  
Fixed Part identity Fixed part identity M LV 2 - 9 subclause 8.4.1.4
* * *
### 7.1.6 CTS-FP de-initialisation complete
This message is sent by the fixed part to the service node to indicate that
the requested de-initialisation has been completed. See table 7.7/GSM 04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM DE-INITIALISATION COMPLETE
Significance: dual
Direction: fixed part to service node
Table 7.7/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM DE-INITIALISATION COMPLETE message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type / Reference Presence Format Length CTS
supervising management Protocol discriminator M V 1/2 protocol discriminator
subclause 8.2  
Skip Indicator Skip Indicator M V 1/2 subclause 8.3.1  
CTSde-initialisation complete Message type M V 1 message type subclause 8.4
* * *
### 7.1.7 CTS-FP de-initialisation reject
This message is sent by the fixed part to the service node to indicate that
the requested de-initialisation has not been completed. See table 7.8/GSM
04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM DE-INITIALISATION REJECT
Significance: dual
Direction: fixed part to service node
Table 7.8/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM DE-INITIALISATION REJECT message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type / Reference Presence Format Length CTS
supervising management Protocol discriminator M V 1/2 protocol discriminator
subclause 8.2  
Skip Indicator Skip Indicator M V 1/2 subclause 8.3.1  
CTS de-initialisation reject Message type M V 1 message type subclause 8.4
* * *
### 7.1.8 CTS enrolment request
This message is sent by the fixed part to the service node to indicate to
request a mobile enrolment onto this fixed part. See table 7.9/GSM 04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM ENROLMENT REQUEST
Significance:
Direction: fixed part to service node
Table 7.9/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM ENROLMENT REQUEST message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type / Reference Presence Format Length CTS
supervising management Protocol discriminator M V 1/2 protocol discriminator
subclause 8.2  
Skip Indicator Skip Indicator M V 1/2 subclause 8.3.1  
CTS enrolment request Message type M V 1 message type subclause 8.4  
Fixed Part identity Fixed Part identity M LV 2-9 subclause 8.4.1.4  
Mobile station identity Mobile station identity M LV 2-9 subclause 8.4.1.5  
Cell identity list Cell identity list M LV 7n subclause 8.4.1.10
* * *
### 7.1.9 CTS-SPM enrolment accept
This message is sent by the service node to the fixed part to indicate that
enrolment of the mobile station onto the fixed part is accepted. See table
7.10/GSM 04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM ENROLMENT ACCEPT
Significance:
Direction: service node to fixed part
Table 7.10/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM ENROLMENT ACCEPT message content
+-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | IEI | Information element | Type / Reference | Presence | Format | Length | +-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | CTS supervising management | Protocol discriminator | M | V | 1/2 | +-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | protocol discriminator | subclause 8.2 | | | | +-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Skip Indicator | Skip Indicator | M | V | 1/2 | +-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | | subclause 8.3.1 | | | | +-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | CTS-SPM enrolment accept | Message type | M | V | 1 | +-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | message type | subclause 8.4 | | | | +-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Enrolment time | Enrolment time | M | V | 1 | | | | | | | | | | | subclause 8.4.1.12 | | | | +-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+
### 7.1.10 CTS-SPM enrolment reject
This message is sent by the service node to the fixed part to indicate that
the requested enrolment has been rejected. See table 7.11/GSM 04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM ENROLMENT REJECT
Significance: dual
Direction: service node to fixed part
Table 7.11/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM ENROLMENT REJECT message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type / Reference Presence Format Length CTS
supervising management Protocol discriminator M V 1/2 protocol discriminator
subclause 8.2  
Skip Indicator Skip Indicator M V 1/2 subclause 8.3.1  
CTS-SPM enrolment reject Message type M V 1 message type subclause 8.4  
Reject cause Reject cause M V 1 subclause 8.x
* * *
### 7.1.11 CTS-SPM de-enrolment indication
This message is sent by the fixed part to the service node to indicate de-
enrolment of a mobile station from this fixed part. See table 7.12/GSM 04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM DE-ENROLMENT INDICATION
Significance: dual
Direction: fixed part to service node
Table 7.12/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM DE-ENROLMENT INDICATION message content
+-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | IEI | Information | Type / | Presence | Format | Length | | | element | Reference | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | CTS | Protocol | M | V | 1/2 | | | supervising | di | | | | | | management | scriminator | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | protocol | subclause | | | | | | di | 8.2 | | | | | | scriminator | | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Skip | Skip | M | V | 1/2 | | | Indicator | Indicator | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.3.1 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | CTS-SPM | Message | M | V | 1 | | | d | type | | | | | | e-enrolment | | | | | | | indication | | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | message | subclause | | | | | | type | 8.4 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Mobile | Mobile | M | LV | 2 - 9 | | | station | station | | | | | | identity | identity | | | | | | | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.4.1.5 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Fixed part | Fixed part | M | LV | 2 - 9 | | | identity | identity | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.4.1.4 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Cause | cause | M | V | 1 | | | | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.x | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+
### 7.1.12 CTS-SPM de-enrolment request
This message is sent by the service node to the fixed part to indicate to
request de-enrolment of a given mobile station from the fixed part. See table
7.13/GSM 04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM DE-ENROLMENT REQUEST
Significance: dual
Direction: service node to fixed part
Table 7.13/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM DE-ENROLMENT REQUEST message content
+-----+----------------------------+-------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | IEI | Information element | Type / Reference | Presence | Format | Length | +-----+----------------------------+-------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | CTS supervising management | Protocol discriminator | M | V | 1/2 | +-----+----------------------------+-------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | protocol discriminator | subclause 8.2 | | | | +-----+----------------------------+-------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Skip Indicator | Skip Indicator | M | V | 1/2 | +-----+----------------------------+-------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | | subclause 8.3.1 | | | | +-----+----------------------------+-------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | CTS de-enrolment request | Message type | M | V | 1 | +-----+----------------------------+-------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | message type | subclause 8.4 | | | | +-----+----------------------------+-------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Fixed part identity | Fixed part identity | M | LV | 2 - 9 | | | | | | | | | | | subclause 8.4.1.4 | | | | +-----+----------------------------+-------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Mobile station identity | Mobile station identity | M | LV | 2 - 9 | +-----+----------------------------+-------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | | subclause 8.4.1.5 | | | | +-----+----------------------------+-------------------------+----------+--------+--------+
### 7.1.13 CTS-SPM de-enrolment complete
This message is sent by the fixed part to the service node to indicate that
the requested de-enrolment has been completed. See table 7.14/GSM 04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM DE-ENROLMENT COMPLETE
Significance: dual
Direction: fixed part to service node
Table 7.14/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM DE-ENROLMENT COMPLETE message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type / Reference Presence Format Length CTS
supervising management Protocol discriminator M V 1/2 protocol discriminator
subclause 8.2  
Skip Indicator Skip Indicator M V 1/2 subclause 8.3.1  
CTS de-enrolment complete Message type M V 1 message type subclause 8.4
* * *
### 7.1.14 CTS-SPM de-enrolment reject
This message is sent by the fixed part to the service node to indicate that
the requested de-enrolment has not been completed. See table 7.15/GSM 04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM DE-ENROLMENT REJECT
Significance: dual
Direction: fixed part to service node
Table 7.15/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM DE-ENROLMENT REJECT message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type / Reference Presence Format Length CTS
supervising management Protocol discriminator M V 1/2 protocol discriminator
subclause 8.2  
Skip Indicator Skip Indicator M V 1/2 subclause 8.3.1  
CTS de-enrolment reject Message type M V 1 message type subclause 8.4
* * *
### 7.1.15 CTS operation data request
This message is sent by the fixed part to the service node to indicate that
operation data are required. See table 7.16/GSM 04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM OPERATION DATA REQUEST
Significance: dual
Direction: fixed part to service node
Table 7.16/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM OPERATION DATA REQUEST message content
+-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | IEI | Information element | Type / Reference | Presence | Format | Length | +-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | CTS supervising management | Protocol discriminator | M | V | 1/2 | +-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | protocol discriminator | subclause 8.2 | | | | +-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Skip Indicator | Skip Indicator | M | V | 1/2 | +-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | | subclause 8.3.1 | | | | +-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | CTS operation data request | Message type | M | V | 1 | | | | | | | | | | | subclause 8.4 | | | | +-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Fixed part identity | Fixed part identity | M | LV | 2 - 9 | | | | | | | | | | | subclause 8.4.1.4 | | | | +-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Cell identity list | Cell identity list | M | LV | 7n | | | | | | | | | | | subclause 8.4.1.10 | | | | +-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+
### 7.1.16 CTS operation data deliver
This message is sent by service node to the fixed part to deliver the
operation data either following an FP request or initiated by the service
node. See table 7.17/GSM 04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM DE-OPERATION DATA DELIVER
Significance: dual
Direction: service node to fixed part
Table 7.17/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM OPERATION DATA DELIVER message content
+-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | IEI | Information | Type / | Presence | Format | Length | | | element | Reference | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | CTS | Protocol | M | V | 1/2 | | | supervising | di | | | | | | management | scriminator | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | protocol | subclause | | | | | | di | 8.2 | | | | | | scriminator | | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Skip | Skip | M | V | 1/2 | | | Indicator | Indicator | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.3.1 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | CTS | Message | M | V | 1 | | | operation | type | | | | | | data | | | | | | | deliver | | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | message | subclause | | | | | | type | 8.4 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Radio | Radio | M | V | 4 | | | frequency | frequency | | | | | | control | control | | | | | | parameters | parameters | | | | | | | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.4.1.7 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Radio link | Radio link | M | V | 4 | | | control | control | | | | | | parameters | parameters | | | | | | | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.4.1.8 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Generic | GFL | M | LV | | | | frequency | | | | | | | list | subclause | | | | | | | 8.4.1.9 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Validity | Tval | M | V | 1 | | | period | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.4.1.13 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Recall | Trecal | M | V | 1 | | | period | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.4.1.14 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Application | Tapplic | M | V | 1 | | | time | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.4.1.x | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+
### 7.1.17 CTS operation data accept
This message is sent by the fixed part to the service node to indicate that
the operation data sent the service node have been accepted by the fixed part.
See table 7.18/GSM 04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM OPERATION DATA ACCEPT
Significance: dual
Direction: fixed part to service node
Table 7.18/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM OPERATION DATA ACCEPT message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type / Reference Presence Format Length CTS
supervising management Protocol discriminator M V 1/2 protocol discriminator
subclause 8.2  
Skip Indicator Skip Indicator M V 1/2 subclause 8.3.1  
CTS operation data accpet Message type M V 1 message type subclause 8.4
* * *
### 7.1.18 CTS operation data reject
This message is sent by the fixed part to the service node to indicate that
the operation data sent the service node have not been accepted by the fixed
part. See table 7.19/GSM 04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM DE-OPERATION DATA REJECT
Significance: dual
Direction: fixed part to service node
Table 7.19/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM OPERATION DATA REJECT message content
+-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | IEI | Information element | Type / Reference | Presence | Format | Length | +-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | CTS supervising management | Protocol discriminator | M | V | 1/2 | +-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | protocol discriminator | subclause 8.2 | | | | +-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Skip Indicator | Skip Indicator | M | V | 1/2 | +-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | | subclause 8.3.1 | | | | +-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | CTS operation data accpet | Message type | M | V | 1 | +-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | message type | subclause 8.4 | | | | +-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Reject cause | Reject cause | M | V | 1 | | | | | | | | | | | subclause 8.X | | | | +-----+----------------------------+------------------------+----------+--------+--------+
### 7.1.19 CTS information data request
This message is sent by the service node to the fixed part indicate that
information data are required. See table 7.20/GSM 04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM INFORMATION DATA REQUEST
Significance: dual
Direction: service node to fixed part
Table 7.20/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM INFORMATION DATA REQUEST message content
+-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | IEI | Information | Type / | Presence | Format | Length | | | element | Reference | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | CTS | Protocol | M | V | 1/2 | | | supervising | di | | | | | | management | scriminator | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | protocol | subclause | | | | | | di | 8.2 | | | | | | scriminator | | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Skip | Skip | M | V | 1/2 | | | Indicator | Indicator | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.3.1 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | CTS | Message | M | V | 1 | | | information | type | | | | | | data | | | | | | | request | | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | message | subclause | | | | | | type | 8.4 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Information | Information | M | LV | tbd | | | data | data | | | | | | | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.4.1.x | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+
### 7.1.20 CTS information data response
This message is sent by the fixed part to the service node in response to an
information data request. See table 7.21/GSM 04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM INFORMATION DATA response
Significance: dual
Direction: fixed part to service node
Table 7.21/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM INFORMATION DATA RESPONSE message content
+-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | IEI | Information | Type / | Presence | Format | Length | | | element | Reference | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | CTS | Protocol | M | V | 1/2 | | | supervising | di | | | | | | management | scriminator | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | protocol | subclause | | | | | | di | 8.2 | | | | | | scriminator | | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Skip | Skip | M | V | 1/2 | | | Indicator | Indicator | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.3.1 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | CTS | Message | M | V | 1 | | | information | type | | | | | | data | | | | | | | response | | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | message | subclause | | | | | | type | 8.4 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Information | Information | M | LV | tbd | | | data | data | | | | | | | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.4.1.x | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+
### 7.1.21 CTS FP authentication request
This message is sent by the service node to the fixed part to initiate
authentication of the fixed part identity. See table 7.22/GSM 04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM FP AUTHENTICATION REQUEST
Significance:
Direction: service node to the fixed part
Table 7.22/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM FP AUTHENTICATION REQUEST message content
+-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | IEI | Information | Type / | Presence | Format | Length | | | element | Reference | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | CTS | Protocol | M | V | 1/2 | | | supervising | di | | | | | | management | scriminator | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | protocol | subclause | | | | | | di | 8.2 | | | | | | scriminator | | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Skip | Skip | M | V | 1/2 | | | Indicator | Indicator | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.3.1 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | CTS FP | Message | M | V | 1 | | | aut | type | | | | | | hentication | | | | | | | request | | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | message | subclause | | | | | | type | 8.4 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Aut | Aut | M | V | 16 | | | hentication | hentication | | | | | | parameter | parameter | | | | | | RAND1 | RAND1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.4.1.1 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+
### 7.1.22 CTS FP authentication response
This message is sent by the the fixed part to the service node to to deliver a
calculated response to the service node. See table 7.23/GSM 04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM FP AUTHENTICATION RESPONSE
Significance: dual
Direction: fixed part to service node
Table 7.23/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM FP AUTHENTICN RESPONSE message content
+-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | IEI | Information | Type / | Presence | Format | Length | | | element | Reference | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | CTS | Protocol | M | V | 1/2 | | | supervising | di | | | | | | management | scriminator | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | protocol | subclause | | | | | | di | 8.2 | | | | | | scriminator | | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Skip | Skip | M | V | 1/2 | | | Indicator | Indicator | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.3.1 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | CTS FP | Message | M | V | 1 | | | aut | type | | | | | | hentication | | | | | | | response | | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | message | subclause | | | | | | type | 8.4 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Aut | Aut | M | V | 16 | | | hentication | hentication | | | | | | parameter | parameter | | | | | | RAND2 | RAND2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.4.1.2 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Aut | Aut | M | V | 16 | | | hentication | hentication | | | | | | parameter | parameter | | | | | | SRES | SRES | | | | | | | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.4.1.3 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+
### 7.1.23 CTS FP authentication reject
This message is sent by the service node to the fixed part to inidicate that
authentication of the fixed part identity has failed. See table 7.24/GSM
04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM FP AUTHENTICATION REJECT
Significance: dual
Direction: service node to the fixed part
Table 7.24/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM FP AUTHENTICATION REJECT message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type / Reference Presence Format Length CTS
supervising management Protocol discriminator M V 1/2 protocol discriminator
subclause 8.2  
Skip Indicator Skip Indicator M V 1/2 subclause 8.3.1  
CTS FP authentication reject Message type M V 1 message type subclause 8.4
* * *
### 7.1.24 CTS MS authentication request
This message is sent by the service node to the fixed part to initiate
authentication of the mobile station identity. See table 7.25/GSM 04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM MS AUTHENTICATION REQUEST
Significance: dual
Direction: service node to the fixed part
Table 7.25/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM MS AUTHENTICATION REQUEST message content
+-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | IEI | Information | Type / | Presence | Format | Length | | | element | Reference | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | CTS | Protocol | M | V | 1/2 | | | supervising | di | | | | | | management | scriminator | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | protocol | subclause | | | | | | di | 8.2 | | | | | | scriminator | | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Skip | Skip | M | V | 1/2 | | | Indicator | Indicator | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.3.1 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | CTS MS | Message | M | V | 1 | | | aut | type | | | | | | hentication | | | | | | | request | | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | message | subclause | | | | | | type | 8.4 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Mobile | Mobile | M | LV | 2 - 9 | | | station | station | | | | | | identity | identity | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.4.1.5 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Aut | Aut | M | V | 16 | | | hentication | hentication | | | | | | parameter | parameter | | | | | | RAND | RAND | | | | | | | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.x | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+
### 7.1.25 CTS MS authentication response
This message is sent by the the fixed part to the service node to to deliver a
response calculated by the mobile station to the service node. See table
7.26/GSM 04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM MS AUTHENTICATION RESPONSE
Significance: dual
Direction: fixed part to service node
Table 7.26/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM MS AUTHENTICATION RESPONSE message content
+-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | IEI | Information | Type / | Presence | Format | Length | | | element | Reference | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | CTS | Protocol | M | V | 1/2 | | | supervising | di | | | | | | management | scriminator | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | protocol | subclause | | | | | | di | 8.2 | | | | | | scriminator | | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Skip | Skip | M | V | 1/2 | | | Indicator | Indicator | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.3.1 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | CTS MS | Message | M | V | 1 | | | aut | type | | | | | | hentication | | | | | | | response | | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | message | subclause | | | | | | type | 8.4 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Mobile | Mobile | M | LV | 2 - 9 | | | station | station | | | | | | identity | identity | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.4.1.5 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Aut | Aut | M | V | 4 | | | hentication | hentication | | | | | | parameter | parameter | | | | | | SRES | SRES | | | | | | | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 8.x | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+
### 7.1.26 CTS MS authentication reject
This message is sent by the service node to the fixed part to inidicate that
authentication of the mobile station identity has failed. See table 7.27/GSM
04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM MS AUTHENTICATION REJECT
Significance:
Direction: service node to the fixed part
Table 7.27/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM MS AUTHENTICATION REJECT message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type / Reference Presence Format Length CTS
supervising management Protocol discriminator M V 1/2 protocol discriminator
subclause 8.2  
Skip Indicator Skip Indicator M V 1/2 subclause 8.3.1  
CTS MS authentication reject Message type M V 1 message type subclause 8.4
* * *
### 7.1.27 CTS SN signing mode command
This message is sent by the service node to the fixed part to indicate that
the service node starts signing. See table 7.28/GSM 04.xx.
Message type: CTS-SPM SN signing mode command
Significance: dual
Direction: service node to fixed part
Table 7.28/GSM 04.xx: CTS-SPM SN signing mode command message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type / Reference Presence Format Length CTS
supervising management Protocol discriminator M V 1/2 protocol discriminator
subclause 8.2  
Skip Indicator Skip Indicator M V 1/2 subclause 8.3.1  
CTS signing mode command Message type M V 1 message type subclause 8.4
* * *
# 8 General message format and information elements coding
The figures and text in this clause describe the Information Elements
contents.
## 8.1 Overview
See corresponding clause in GSM 04.08.
## 8.2 Protocol Discriminator
The Protocol Discriminator (PD) and its use are defined in GSM 04.07 [20].
## 8.3 Skip indicator and transaction identifier
### 8.3.1 Skip indicator
Bits 5 to 8 of the first octet of every CTS Radio Resource management and CTS
Mobility Management message contains the skip indicator. In order to
differentiate GSM Radio Resource management and GSM Mobility Management
messages from CTS Radio Resource management and CTS Mobility Management
messages, the skip indicator used shall be 1111. A message received with skip
indicator different from 1111 shall be ignored by the CTS Radio Resource
management protocol entity and by the CTS Mobility Management protocol entity.
A protocol entity sending a CTS Radio Resource management or a CTS Mobility
Management message shall encode the skip indicator as 1111.
### 8.3.2 Transaction identifier
See GSM 04.08.
## 8.4 Message Type
The message type IE and its use are defined in GSM 04.07 [20]. Tables 8.1/GSM
04.xx define the value part of the message type IE used in the CTS Supervising
management protocol.
Table 8.1/GSM 04.xx: Message types for CTS Supervising management
+-------------------------------------------------------+
\| 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 \|
\| \|
\| 0 0 1 1 1 - - - CTS-FPInitialisation messages: \|
\| 1 1 1 - CTS-SPM INITIALISATION REQUEST \|
\| 0 0 1 - CTS-SPM INITIALISATION ACCEPT \|
\| 0 1 0 - CTS-SPM INITIALISATION COMPLETE \|
\| 1 0 0 - CTS-SPM INITIALISATION REJECT \|
\| \|
\| 0 0 1 1 0 - - - CTS-FP De-initialisation messages: \|
\| 1 0 1 - CTS-SPM DE-INITIALISATION REQUEST \|
\| 0 1 0 - CTS-SPM DE-INITIALISATION COMPLETE \|
\| 0 0 1 - CTS-SPM DE-INITIALISATION REJECT \|
\| \|
\| 0 0 1 0 1 - - - Enrolment messages: \|
\| 0 1 1 - CTS-SPM ENROLMENT REQUEST \|
\| 1 0 0 - CTS-SPM ENROLMENT ACCEPT \|
\| 0 0 0 - CTS-SPM ENROLMENT REJECT \|
\| \|
\| 0 0 0 0 1 - - - De-Enrolment messages: \|
\| 1 0 1 - CTS-SPM DE-ENROLMENT INDICATION \|
\| 1 1 0 - CTS-SPM DE-ENROLMENT REQUEST \|
\| 0 1 1 - CTS-SPM DE-ENROLMENT COMPLETE \|
\| 0 0 0 - CTS-SPM DE-ENROLMENT REJECT \|
\| \|
\| 0 0 1 0 0 - - - Operation data update messages: \|
\| 0 0 1 - CTS-SPM OPERATION DATA REQUEST \|
\| 0 1 0 - CTS-SPM OPERATION DATA DELIVER \|
\| 1 0 0 - CTS-SPM OPERATION DATA ACCEPT \|
\| 1 1 1 - CTS-SPM OPERATION DATA REJECT \|
\| \|
\| 0 0 0 1 1 - - - Information data request messages: \|
\| 0 0 1 - CTS-SPM INFORMATION DATA REQUEST \|
\| 0 1 0 - CTS-SPM INFORMATION DATA RESPONSE \|
\| \|
\| 0 0 0 1 0 - - - Authentication messages: \|
\| 0 0 0 - CTS-SPM FP AUTHENTICATION REQUEST \|
\| 0 1 0 - CTS-SPM FP AUTHENTICATION RESPONSE \|
\| 1 1 1 - CTS-SPM FP AUTHENTICATION REJECT \|
\| 1 0 0 - CTS-SPM MS AUTHENTICATION REQUEST \|
\| 1 0 1 - CTS-SPM MS AUTHENTICATION RESPONSE \|
\| 1 1 0 - CTS-SPM MS AUTHENTICATION REJECT \|
\| 0 1 1 - CTS-SPM SN SIGNING MODE COMMAND \|
\| \|
+-------------------------------------------------------+
Bit 8 is reserved for possible future use as an extension bit, see GSM 04.07.
### 8.4.1 Supervising management information elements.
#### 8.4.1.1 Authentication parameter RAND1
The purpose of the _Authentication Parameter RAND1_ information element is to
provide the fixed part with a non-predictable number to be used to calculate
the authentication response SRES.
The _Authentication Parameter RAND1_ information element is coded as shown in
figure 10.x/GSM 04.xx and table 10.x/GSM 04.xx.
The _Authentication Parameter RAND1_ is a type 3 information element with 17
octets length.
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
+-----------------------------------------------+
\| Authentication parameter RAND1 IEI \| octet 1
+-----------------------------------------------+
\| \|
\| RAND1 value \| octet 2
:
:
\| \| octet 17
\| \|
+-----------------------------------------------+
Figure 10.x/GSM 04.xx: _Authentication Parameter RAND1_ information element
Table 10.x/GSM 04.xx: _Authentication Parameter RAND1_ information element
+-----------------------------------------------------+
\| RAND1 value (octet 2, 3,... and 17) \|
\| The RAND1 value consists of 128 bits. Bit 8 of octet\|
\| 2 is the most significant bit while bit 1 of octet \|
\| 17 is the least significant bit. \|
+-----------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.4.1.2 Authentication parameter RAND2
The purpose of the _Authentication Parameter RAND2_ information element is to
provide the service node with a non-predictable number to be used by the
service node to calculate the data signature .
The _Authentication Parameter RAND2_ information element is coded as shown in
figure 10.x/GSM 04.xx and table 10.x/GSM 04.xx.
The _Authentication Parameter RAND2_ is a type 3 information element with 17
octets length.
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
+-----------------------------------------------+
\| Authentication parameter RAND2 IEI \| octet 1
+-----------------------------------------------+
\| \|
\| RAND2 value \| octet 2
:
:
\| \| octet 17
\| \|
+-----------------------------------------------+
Figure 10.x/GSM 04.xx: _Authentication Parameter RAND2_ information element
Table 10.x/GSM 04.xx: _Authentication Parameter RAND2_ information element
+-----------------------------------------------------+
\| RAND2 value (octet 2, 3,... and 17) \|
\| The RAND2 value consists of 128 bits. Bit 8 of octet\|
\| 2 is the most significant bit while bit 1 of octet \|
\| 17 is the least significant bit. \|
+-----------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.4.1.3 Authentication parameter SRES
The purpose of the _authentication parameter SRES_ information element is to
provide the service node with the authentication response signature calculated
in the fixed part.
The _Authentication Parameter SRES_ information element is coded as shown in
figure 10.x/GSM 04.xx and table 10.x/GSM 04.xx.
The _Authentication Parameter SRES_ is a type 3 information element with 17
octets length.
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
+-----------------------------------------------+
\| Authentication parameter SRES IEI \| octet 1
+-----------------------------------------------+
\| \|
\| SRES value \| octet 2
:
:
\| \| octet 17
\| \|
+-----------------------------------------------+
Figure 10.x/GSM 04.xx _Authentication Parameter SRES_ information element
Table 10.x/GSM 04.xx: _Authentication Parameter SRES_ information element
+-----------------------------------------------------+
\| SRES value (octet 2, 3,... and 17) \|
\| The SRES value consists of 128 bits. Bit 8 of octet \|
\| 2 is the most significant bit while bit 1 of octet \|
\| 17 is the least significant bit. \|
+-----------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.4.1.4 Fixed part Identity
The purpose of the _Fixed part Identity_ information element is to provide
either the international fixed part subscriber identity, IFPSI, or the
international fixed part equipment identity, IFPEI.
The IFPSI shall not exceed 15 digits, the IFPEI is composed of 16 digits (see
GSM 03.03).
The _Fixed part Identity_ information element is coded as shown in figure
10.x/GSM 04.xx and table 10.x/GSM 04.xx.
The Fixed part Identity is a type 4 information element with a minimum length
of 3 octets and 11 octets length maximal.
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
+-----------------------------------------------+
\| \| Fixed part Identity IEI \| octet 1
+-----------------------------------------------+
\| \|
\| Length of fixed part identity contents \| octet 2
+-----------------------------------------------+
\| \|odd/ \| \|
\| Identity digit 1 \|even \| Type of identity\| octet 3
\| \|indic\| \|
+-----------------------+-----------------------+
\| \| \|
\| Identity digit p+1 \| Identity digit p \| octet 4*
+-----------------------------------------------+
Figure 10.5/GSM 04.xx _Fixed part Identity_ information element
Table 10.8/GSM 04.xx: _Fixed part Identity_ information element
+--------------------------------------------------------+
\| Type of identity (octet 3) \|
\| Bits \|
\| 3 2 1 \|
\| 0 0 1 IFPSI \|
\| 0 1 0 IFPEI \|
\| \|
\| All other values are reserved. \|
\| \|
\| Odd/even indication (octet 3) \|
\| Bit \|
\| 4 \|
\| 0 even number of identity digits and also when \|
\| 1 odd number of identity digits \|
\| \|
\| Identity digits (octet 3 etc) \|
\| For the IFPSI, IFPEI this field is coded using BCD \|
\| coding. If the number of identity digits is even then \|
\| bits 5 to 8 of the last octet shall be filled with \|
\| an end mark coded as \"1111\". \|
+--------------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.4.1.5 Mobile station Identity
The purpose of the _Mobile station Identity_ information element is to provide
to the service node the international mobile station subscriber identity,
IMSI.
The IMSI shall not exceed 15 digits (see GSM 03.03).
The _Mobile station Identity_ information element is coded as shown in figure
10.x/GSM 04.xx and table 10.x/GSM 04.xx.
The Mobile station Identity is a type 4 information element with a minimum
length of 3 octets and 11 octets length maximal.
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
+-----------------------------------------------+
\| \| Mobile station Identity IEI \| octet 1
+-----------------------------------------------+
\| \|
\| Length of fixed part identity contents \| octet 2
+-----------------------------------------------+
\| \|odd/ \| \|
\| Identity digit 1 \|even \| Type of identity\| octet 3
\| \|indic\| \|
+-----------------------+-----------------------+
\| \| \|
\| Identity digit p+1 \| Identity digit p \| octet 4*
+-----------------------------------------------+
Figure 10.5/GSM 04.xx: _Mobile station Identity_ information element
Table 10.8/GSM 04.xx: _Mobile_ station _Identity_ information element
+--------------------------------------------------------+
\| Type of identity (octet 3) \|
\| Bits \|
\| 3 2 1 \|
\| 0 0 1 IMSI \|
\| \|
\| \|
\| All other values are reserved. \|
\| \|
\| Odd/even indication (octet 3) \|
\| Bit \|
\| 4 \|
\| 0 even number of identity digits and also when \|
\| 1 odd number of identity digits \|
\| \|
\| Identity digits (octet 3 etc) \|
\| For the IMSI this field is coded using BCD \|
\| coding. If the number of identity digits is even then \|
\| bits 5 to 8 of the last octet shall be filled with \|
\| an end mark coded as \"1111\". \|
+--------------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.4.1.6 Fixed Part Classmark
The purpose of the _Fixed part Classmark_ information element is to provide
the service node with information concerning charactersitics of the fixed
part. The contents might affect the manner in which the service node handles
the operation of the fixed part.
The Fixed Part Classmark information element has 2 octets length.
The value part of a _Fixed Part_ _Classmark_ information element is coded as
shown in figure 10.5.1.7/GSM 04.xx.
Table 10.5.1.7/GSM 04.xx: _Fixed Part Classmark_ information element
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
+-----------------------------------------------+
\| \| Fixed part Classmark IEI \| octet 1
+-----+-----------------------------------------+
\| 0 \| Band \| 0 0 0 0 \| octet 2
\|spare\| \| spare \|
+-----------------------------------------------+
Table 10.8/GSM 04.xx: _Fixed part Classmark_ information element
+--------------------------------------------------------+
\| Band (octet 2) \|
\| Bits \|
\| 7 6 5 \|
\| 0 0 0 GSM900 band supported \|
\| 0 0 1 E-GSM band supported \|
\| 0 1 0 DCS1800 band supported \|
\| 0 1 1 GSM1900 band supported \|
\| \|
\| All other values are reserved. \|
+--------------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.4.1.7 Radio frequency control Parameters
The purpose of the Radio Frequency control parameters information element is
to provide the radio parameters to be applied on the fixed part.
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
+-----------------------------------------------+
\| \| Radio Frequency Control parameters IEI \| octet 1
+-----+-----------------------------------------+
\|AFA \| \| APPROACH\| octet 2
\|USE \| SEL_RANGE \| TYPE \|
+-----------------------------------------------+
\| \| FWT_SIZE_WIN \| octet 3
\| MIN_NB_FREQ \| (high) \|
+-----------------------------------------------+
\|FWT_SIZE \| \|CTSBCH \| octet 4
\|WIN (low)\| SWT_SIZE_WIN \|SEL MODE
+-----------------------------------------------+
\| \| 0 0 0 \| octet 5
\| INTERF_THRESHOLD \| spare \|
+-----------------------------------------------+
Figure 10.2/GSM 04.xx: _Radio Frequency Control_ _Parameters_ information
element
Table 10.8/GSM 04.xx: _Radio Frequency Control_ _Parameters_ information
element
+--------------------------------------------------------+
\| AFA_USE, use of AFA algorithm (octet 2) \|
\| Bit \|
\| 8 \|
\| 0 AFA used \|
\| 1 AFA not used \|
\| \|
\| \|
\| SEL_RANGE, carrier list selection upper bound (octet 2)\|
\| Bits \|
\| 7 6 5 4 3 \|
\| 0 0 0 0 0 range 0 \|
\| 0 0 0 0 1 range 1 \|
\| . \|
\| . \|
\| 1 1 1 1 1 range 31 \|
\| \|
\| \|
\| APPROACH TYPE, type of approach used in slection range \|
\| (octet 2) \|
\| \|
\| Bits \|
\| 2 1 \|
\| 0 0 Basic Threshold (BASIC) \|
\| 0 1 Sliding window technique (SWT) \|
\| 1 0 Fixed window technique (FWT) \|
\| 1 1 List extension check (EXT) \|
\| \|
\| MIN_NB_FREQ, minimum number of frequency (octet 3) \|
\| \|
\| Bits \|
\| 8 7 6 5 4 \|
\| 0 0 0 0 0 no frequency \|
\| 0 0 0 0 1 1 frequency \|
\| . \|
\| . \|
\| 1 1 1 1 1 31 frequencies \|
\| \|
\| FWT_SIZE_WIN, minimum size of the window for FWT \|
\| (octet 3 and octet 4) \|
\| \|
\| Bits \|
\| 3 2 1 8 7 \|
\| \|
\| 0 0 0 0 0 size 0 \|
\| 0 0 0 0 0 size 1 \|
\| . \|
\| . \|
\| 1 1 1 1 1 size 31 \|
\| \|
\| SWT_SIZE_WIN, fixed size of the window for SWT \|
\| (octet 4) \|
\| \|
\| Bits \|
\| 6 5 4 3 2 \|
\| 0 0 0 0 0 size \|
\| 0 0 0 0 0 size 1 \|
\| . \|
\| . \|
\| 1 1 1 1 1 size 31 \|
\| \|
\| CTSBCH_SEL_MODE, CTSBCH selection mode (octet 4) \|
\| \|
\| Bit \|
\| 1 \|
\| 0 best carrier of TFH list \|
\| 1 random carrier of TFH list \|
\| \|
\| INTERF_THRESHOLD, interference threshold (octet 5) \|
\| \|
\| Bits \|
\| 8 7 6 5 4 \|
\| 0 0 0 0 0 0dB (steps of 2dB) \|
\| 0 0 0 0 0 2dB \|
\| \|
\| 1 1 1 1 1 62dB \|
+--------------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.4.1.8 Radio link control Parameters
The purpose of the _Radio Link control Parameters_ information element is to
provide the radio parameters to be applied on the fixed part.
> 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| \| Radio Frequency Link parameters IEI \| octet 1
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \|CTS_FP_MAX_TXPWR \| CTS_MS_MAX_TXPWR\| octet 2
>
> \| \| (high) \|
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \|CTS_MAX_TXPWR\| \| octet 3
>
> \| (low) \| CTS-RXLEV_ACCESS_MIN \|
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| CTS_CELL_RESELECT_OFFSET \| 0 0 \| octet 4
>
> \| \| spare \|
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| \| octet 5
>
> \|CTS_RADIO_LINK_TIMEOUT \|
>
> +-----------------------+
Figure 10.2/GSM 04.xx: _Radio Link Control_ _Parameters_ information element
Table 10.8/GSM 04.xx: _Radio Link Control_ _Parameters_ information element
+--------------------------------------------------------+
\|CTS_FP_MAX_TXPWR, maximum Fixed Part transmission power \|
\|(octet 2) \|
\| Bits \|
\| 8 7 6 5 4 \|
\| 0 0 0 0 0 level 0 \|
\| 0 0 0 0 1 level 1 \|
\| . \|
\| . \|
\| 1 1 1 1 1 level 31 \|
\| \|
\| \|
\| CTS_MX_MAX_TXPWR, maximum Mobile Station transmission \|
\|power(octet 2 and octet 3) \|
\| Bits \|
\| 3 2 1 8 7 \|
\| 0 0 0 0 0 level 0 \|
\| 0 0 0 0 1 level 1 \|
\| . \|
\| . \|
\| 1 1 1 1 1 level 31 \|
\| \|
\| \|
\| CTS_RXLEV_ACCESS_MIN, minimum received level at the MS \|
\| (octet 3)coded as defined in GSM05.08 \|
\| Bits \|
\| 6 5 4 3 2 1 \|
\| 0 0 0 0 0 0 level 0 \|
\| 0 0 0 0 0 1 level 1 \|
\| . \|
\| . \|
\| 1 1 1 1 1 1 level 63 \|
\| \|
\|CTS_CELL_RESELECT_OFFSET_, reselection offest(octet 4) \|
\| Bits \|
\| 8 7 6 5 4 3 \|
\| 0 0 0 0 0 0 O dB \|
\| 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 dB \|
\| . \|
\| . \|
\| 1 1 1 1 1 1 63 dB \|
\| \|
\| CTS_RADIO_LINK_TIMEOUT, maximum value of the radio \|
\|link counter(octet 5) \|
\| Bits \|
\| 8 7 6 5 \|
\| 0 0 0 0 4 SACCH blocks (setps of 4 blocks) \|
\| 0 0 0 1 8 SACCH blocks \|
\| . \|
\| . \|
\| 1 1 1 1 64 SACCH blocks \|
+--------------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.4.1.9 Generic Frequency List
The purpose of the _Generic Frequency List_ information element is to provide
the generic frequency list to be used to derive the AFA list (see GSM04.56) to
be used on the CTS interface.
Its coding is similar to the \"GSM04.08 Cell Channel Description\" information
field coding.
#### 8.4.1.10 Cell Identity List
The purpose of the _Cell Identity List_ information element is to provide to
the service node the list of the cell global identities surrounding the fixed
part.
> 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| \| Cell Identity List IEI \| octet 1
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| \|
>
> \| Length of Cell Identity List contents \| octet 2
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| \| \|
>
> \| MCC1 digit 2 \| MCC1 digit 1 \| octet 3
>
> +-----------------------+-----------------------+
>
> \| \| \|
>
> \| 1 1 1 1 \| MCC1 digit3 \| octet 4
>
> +-----------------------┼-----------------------+
>
> \| \| \|
>
> \| MNC1 digit 2 \| MNC1 digit1 \| octet 5
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| \|
>
> \| LAC1 \| octet 6
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| \|
>
> \| LAC1 (continued) \| octet 7
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| \|
>
> \| CI1 value \| octet 8
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| \|
>
> \| CI1 value (continued) \| octet 9
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| \| \|
>
> \| MCC2 digit 2 \| MCC2 digit 1 \| octet 10
>
> +-----------------------+-----------------------+
>
> \| \| \|
>
> \| 1 1 1 1 \| MCC2 digit3 \| octet 11
>
> +-----------------------+-----------------------+
>
> \| \| \|
>
> \| MNC2 digit 2 \| MNC2 digit1 \| octet 12
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| \|
>
> \| LAC2 \| octet 13
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| \|
>
> \| LAC2 (continued) \| octet 14
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| \|
>
> \| CI2 value \| octet 15
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| \|
>
> \| CI2 value (continued) \| octet 16
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| \| \|
>
> \| MCCn digit 2 \| MCCn digit 1 \| octet 7n-4
>
> +-----------------------+-----------------------+
>
> \| \| \|
>
> \| 1 1 1 1 \| MCCn digit3 \| octet 7n-3
>
> +-----------------------+-----------------------+
>
> \| \| \|
>
> \| MNCn digit 2 \| MNCn digit1 \| octet 7n-2
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| \|
>
> \| LACn \| octet 7n-1
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| \|
>
> \| LACn (continued) \| octet 7n
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| \|
>
> \| CIn value \| octet 7n+1
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| \|
>
> \| CIn value (continued) \| octet 7n+2
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
Figure 10.5/GSM 04.xx: _Cell Identity List_ information element
Table 10.8/GSM 04.xx: _Cell Identity List_ information element
+--------------------------------------------------------+
\| MCC, Mobile country code(octets 7n-4 and 7n-3) \|
\| MNC, Mobile Network code (octet 7n-2) \|
\| LAC, Location area code (octets 7n-1 and 7n) \|
\|These fields are coded as the \"Location Area \|
\|Identification\" Information element in GSM04.08 \|
\| \|
\|CI, Cell Identity (octets 7n+1 and 7n+2) is coded as \|
\|\"Cell Identity\" Information element in GSM04.08 \|
\| \|
+--------------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.4.1.11 Application time
The purpose of the _Application time_ information element is to provide to the
fixed part the time when the new control data sent by the service node should
apply.
> 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| \| Application time IEI \| octet 1
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \|Application \| \|
>
> \|time \| \|
>
> \|information \| Tapplic \| octet 2
>
> +------------+----------------------------------+
>
> \|Tapplic \|
>
> \|(continued) \| octet 3
>
> +------------+
Figure 10.5/GSM 04.xx: _Application time_ information element
Table 10.8/GSM 04.xx: Application time information element
+--------------------------------------------------------+
\| Application time information(octet 2) \|
\| \|
\| Bits \|
\| 8 7 \|
\| 0 0 apply immediately \|
\| 0 1 apply at Tval expiry \|
\| 1 0 apply at Tapplic \|
\| \|
\| All other values are reserved. \|
\| \|
\| Tapplic, application timer (octets 2 and 3) \|
\| Bits \|
\| 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 \|
\| 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Tapplic = 0day \|
\| 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Tapplic = 1day \|
\| ..... \|
\| 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Tapplic = 255days \|
+--------------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.4.1.12 Enrolment time
The purpose of the _Enrolment time_ information element is to provide to the
fixed part the duration associated to a mobile enrolment.
> 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| \| Enrolment time IEI \| octet 1
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| Tenrol \| octet 2
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
Figure 10.5/GSM 04.xx: _Enrolment time_ information element
Table 10.8/GSM 04.xx: Enrolment time information element
+--------------------------------------------------------+
\| Enrolment time information(octet 2) \|
\| \|
\| \|
\| Bits \|
\| 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 \|
\| 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Tenrol = 0day \|
\| 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Tenrol = 1day \|
\| ..... \|
\| 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Tenrol = 255days \|
+--------------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.4.1.13 Validity period
The purpose of the _Validity period_ information element is to provide to the
fixed part the validity period associated with parameters updated by the
service node.
> 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| \| Validity period IEI \| octet 1
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| Tval \| octet 2
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
Figure 10.5/GSM 04.xx: _Validity period_ information element
Table 10.8/GSM 04.xx: Validity period information element
+--------------------------------------------------------+
\| Validity period information(octet 2) \|
\| \|
\| \|
\| Bits \|
\| 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 \|
\| 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Tval = 0day \|
\| 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Tval = 1day \|
\| ..... \|
\| 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Tval = 255days \|
+--------------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.4.1.14 Recall period
The purpose of the _Recall period_ information element is to require the fixed
part to contact the service node for control purposes.
> 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| \| Recall period IEI \| octet 1
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
>
> \| Trecal \| octet 2
>
> +-----------------------------------------------+
Figure 10.5/GSM 04.xx: _Recall_ period information element
Table 10.8/GSM 04.xx: Recall period information element
+--------------------------------------------------------+
\| Recall period information(octet 2) \|
\| \|
\| \|
\| Bits \|
\| 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 \|
\| 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Trecal = 0day \|
\| 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Trecal = 1day \|
\| ..... \|
\| 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Trecal = 255days \|
+--------------------------------------------------------+
# 9 List of system parameters
The description of timers in the following table should be considered a brief
summary. The precise details are found in clauses 3 to 6, which should be
considered the definitive descriptions.
## 9.1 Timers and counters for radio resource management
### 9.1.1 Timers on the SN side
### 9.1.2 Timers on the CTS‑FP side
###### ## Annex A (informative): Change Request History
* * *