# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Group Call Control (GCC) protocol used by
the Voice Group Call Service (VGCS) on the radio interface.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] Void
[1a] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 42.068: \"Voice Group Call Service (VGCS); Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.067: \"enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service
(eMLPP); Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 43.068: \"Voice Group Call Service (VGCS); Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 44.006: \"Mobile Station - Base Stations System (MS - BSS)
Interface; Data Link (DL) Layer Specification \".
[7] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General
aspects\".
[8] 3GPP TS 44.018: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Radio
Resource Control Protocol\".
[9] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 42.068 and the following apply:
**attachment of the user connection:** See 3GPP TS 24.008, subclause 5.2.
**calling user:** GCC entity in the Mobile Station (MS) initiating or having
initiated a group call.
**clearing the context related to the group call establishment:** all running
GCC timers in the relevant GCC entity are stopped, all attributes in the
relevant GCC entity are deleted.
**downlink:** network to mobile station direction.
**group call:** is used in the same sense as \"voice group call\".
**group call channel:** combined uplink/downlink to be allocated in each cell
of the group call area for a particular group call. The uplink can be used by
the presently talking service subscriber only. All MSs of the listening
service subscribers in one cell shall listen to the common downlink.
**group receive mode:** See 3GPP TS 44.018.
**originating mobile station:** mobile station initiating or having initiated
the group call.
NOTE 1: In certain situations, a MS assumes to be the originating MS of a
group call without actually being the originating MS of that group call.
NOTE 2: There may be one or none originating MS for a given group call.
**uplink:** mobile station to network direction.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1a] and the following apply:
BSS Base Station System
eMLPP enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service
GCC Group Call Control\ GPRS General Packet Radio Service
MS Mobile Station
VGCS Voice Group Call Service
CM Connection Management
TI Transaction Identifier
# 4 Applicability
Support of the group call protocol is optional in the MS and in the network.
# 5 Main concepts
The present document describes the group call control (GCC) protocol, which is
one of the protocols of the Connection Management (CM) sublayer (see 3GPP TS
24.007).
There is in general more than one MS engaged in a group call. Consequently,
there is in general more than one MS with a GCC entity engaged in the same
group call, and there is one GCC entity in the network engaged in that group
call.
Under which conditions a GCC message is passed from lower (sub-)layers to the
GCC entity is defined in the specifications of the sub-layers.
The MS shall ignore GCC messages that it receives which were sent in
unacknowledged mode and which explicitly specify as destination a mobile
identity which is not a mobile identity of the MS.
Higher layers and the MM sub-layer decide when to accept parallel GCC
transactions and when/whether to accept GCC transactions in parallel to other
CM transactions.
The group call may be initiated by a mobile user or by a dispatcher.
Specification of a protocol for dispatchers is out of the scope of the present
document. Hence, in the scope of the present document, there are:
\- one GCC entity in the network; and
\- one or more than one GCC entities in different MSs;
engaged in a group call, and one ore none of the MSs is the originator of the
group call (called the originating MS in the present document). Note that, in
certain situations, a MS assumes to be the originator of a group call without
being the originator.
The originator of the GCC transaction chooses the Transaction Identifier (TI).
A MS not assuming to be the originator of the transaction will chose the
transaction identifier received from the network, setting the TI flag to 1+x
mod 2 where x is the received TI flag.
The present document describes the group call control protocol only with
regard to two peer entities, one in a MS, the other one in the network. The
call control entities are described as communicating finite state machines
which exchange messages across the radio interface and communicate internally
with other protocol (sub)layers. In particular, the GCC protocol uses the MM
and RR sublayer specified in 3GPP TS 24.008 and 3GPP TS 44.018. This
description in only normative as far as the consequential externally
observable behaviour is concerned. For simplicity, instead of using the terms
\"GCC entity in the MS\" and \"GCC entity in the network\", the present
document often uses the terms \"MS\" and \"network\" if no confusion may
arise.
Certain sequences of actions of the two peer entities compose \"elementary
procedures\" which are used as a basis for the description in the present
document. These elementary procedures are defined in clause 6.
The network should apply supervisory functions to verify that the GCC
procedures are progressing and if not, take appropriate means to resolve the
problems. This, however, is out of the scope of the present document.
# 6 Elementary procedures for Group Call Control
## 6.1 Overview
### 6.1.1 General
The elementary procedures may be grouped into the following classes:
\- group call establishment procedures;
\- group call termination procedures;
\- call information phase procedures;
\- miscellaneous procedures.
Figure 6.1 gives an overview of the main states and transitions on the MS
side.
{width="6.636111111111111in" height="7.930555555555555in"}
NOTE 1: * if MS assumes to be the originator of the group call.
NOTE 2: ** if not in RR connected mode.
Figure 6.1: Overview group call control protocol/MS side
### 6.1.2 Group call control states
#### 6.1.2.1 Group call control states at the MS side of the interface
The GCC entity of the MS is described as an extended finite state machine. It
performs transitions between (main) states, and in main state GROUP CALL
ACTIVE (U3) it performs transitions between sub-states. It has certain
parameters and attributes, e.g. configuration parameters and behaviour
parameters, which it sets and changes based on interaction with higher and
lower (sub-)layers and on message exchange with its peer entity. If a
configuration parameter is set to a certain value, the MS shall also adapt the
configuration accordingly. Behaviour parameters decide on (part of) the
behaviour of the GCC entity. When the GCC entity in the MS receives a message,
it shall first analyse whether it shall ignore the message, see clauses 5 and
7.
##### 6.1.2.1.1 Attributes and parameters of GCC in the MS
For the following behaviour parameters, the description is informative.
* * *
Parameter Description ORIG Depending on the context, the MS assumes to be the
originator of the call (ORIG = T) or not to be the originator of the call
(ORIG = F). COMM Depending on the context, the MS assumes that communication
with its peer entity is enabled in both directions (COMM = T) or not (COMM =
F).
* * *
For the following configuration parameters the MS shall adapt its
configuration according to the parameter value and parameter definition.
+-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Definition | +-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+ | D-ATT | D-ATT = T means that the MS attaches the user | | | connection for the group call in the downlink. | | | | | | D-ATT = F means that the MS does not attach the user | | | connection for the group call in the downlink. | +-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+ | U-ATT | U-ATT = T means that the MS attaches the user | | | connection for the group call in the uplink. | | | | | | U-ATT = F means that the MS does not attach the user | | | connection for the group call in the uplink. | +-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+
##### 6.1.2.1.2 NULL (U0)
No group call exists for the GCC entity. When entering the state, parameters
shall be set to the following values, and configuration shall be adapted to
the new values of configuration parameters: ORIG = F, COMM = F, D-ATT = F,
U-ATT = F.
##### 6.1.2.1.3 MM CONNECTION PENDING (U0.p)
The GCC entity has requested the explicit establishment of an MM connection.
When entering the state, parameters shall be set to the following values, and
configuration shall be adapted to the new values of configuration parameters:
ORIG = T, COMM = F, D-ATT = F, U-ATT = F.
##### 6.1.2.1.4 GROUP CALL INITIATED (U1)
The GCC entity has requested the peer entity in the network to establish a
group call. When entering the state, parameters shall be set to the following
values, and configuration shall be adapted to the new values of configuration
parameters: ORIG = T, COMM = T, D-ATT = F, U-ATT = F.
##### 6.1.2.1.5 GROUP CALL ACTIVE (U2)
The group call is established at least in one cell; depending on the sub-
state, the MS has attached the user connection in the uplink and/or downlink.
The following sub-states exist:
\- separate link (U2sl);
\- wait for receive mode (U2wr);
\- receive mode (U2r);
\- wait for send and receive mode (U2ws);
\- send and receive mode (U2sr);
\- no channel (U2nc).
##### 6.1.2.1.6 GROUP CALL PRESENT (U3)
The MS has received a notification about an ongoing group call. Higher layers
are requested to accept or reject the call. When entering the state,
parameters shall be set to the following values, and configuration shall be
adapted to the new values of configuration parameters: ORIG = F, COMM = F,
D‑ATT = F, U-ATT = F.
##### 6.1.2.1.7 GROUP CALL CONNECTION REQUESTED (U4)
The MS has received a notification about an ongoing group call. Higher layers
have decided to accept the call. When entering the state, parameters shall be
set to the following values, and configuration shall be adapted to the new
values of configuration parameters: ORIG = F, COMM = F, D‑ATT = F, U-ATT = F.
##### 6.1.2.1.8 TERMINATION REQUESTED (U5)
The MS (which assumes to be the originator of the group call) has been in
state U1 or U2 and has sent a TERMINATION REQUEST message to the network. When
entering the state, parameters shall be set to the following values, and
configuration shall be adapted to the new values of configuration parameters:
ORIG = T, COMM = T, D‑ATT = T, U-ATT = T.
##### 6.1.2.1.9 Sub-states of the Group call active state
NOTE: Control of the user connection attachment is seen as a group call
control function. This is a reason why the sub-states are distinguished.
##### 6.1.2.1.9.1 separate link (U2sl) {#separate-link-u2sl .H6}
A dedicated one to one RR connection exists between MS and network. When
entering the sub-state, parameters shall be set to the following values, and
configuration shall be adapted to the new values of configuration parameters:
COMM = T, D-ATT = T, U-ATT = T.
##### 6.1.2.1.9.2 wait for receive mode (U2wr) {#wait-for-receive-mode-u2wr
.H6}
The MS has asked the network to enter receive mode but a dedicated one-to-one
channel is still assigned. When entering the sub-state, parameters shall be
set to the following values, and configuration shall be adapted to the new
values of configuration parameters: COMM = T, D-ATT = T, U‑ATT = F.
##### 6.1.2.1.9.3 receive mode (U2r) {#receive-mode-u2r .H6}
The MS uses a group call channel. When entering the sub-state, parameters
shall be set to the following values, and configuration shall be adapted to
the new values of configuration parameters: COMM = F, D-ATT = T, U-ATT = F.
##### 6.1.2.1.9.4 wait for send and receive mode (U2ws) {#wait-for-send-and-
receive-mode-u2ws .H6}
The MS (which was in U2r or U2wr) has asked for the uplink. When entering the
sub-state, parameters shall be set to the following values, and configuration
shall be adapted to the new values of configuration parameters: COMM = F,
D‑ATT = T, U-ATT = T.
##### 6.1.2.1.9.5 send and receive mode (U2sr) {#send-and-receive-mode-u2sr
.H6}
The MS has been informed by its peer entity that the uplink is granted. When
entering the sub-state, parameters shall be set to the following values, and
configuration shall be adapted to the new values of configuration parameters:
D-ATT = T, U-ATT = T. The parameter D-ATT may subsequently be set by the
network for muting and unmuting purposes.
##### 6.1.2.1.9.6 no channel (U2nc) {#no-channel-u2nc .H6}
The GCC entity has been informed that no channel is currently available. Timer
Tno channell is running. When entering the sub-state, parameters shall be set
to the following values, and configuration shall be adapted to the new values
of configuration parameters: COMM = F, D-ATT = T, U-ATT = T.
##### 6.1.2.1.10 GCC Timers in the MS
Table 6.1 specifies the timers used in GCC. The denotation of columns is
defined as follows:
timer ::= name of the timer;
set ::= under which conditions the timer is set (i.e. started);
stopped ::= under which conditions the timer is stopped;
running in state(s) ::= in which state(s) the timer may be running;
action at expiry ::= which actions the GCC entity shall perform at expiry;
value ::= the duration between setting the timer and expiry of the timer
(\"s\" denotes
\"second(s)\" \"xx - yy\" means that any value between xx and yy is
permitted).
Table 6.1: Specification of timers used in GCC
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---------+ | timer | set | stopped | running | action | value | | | | | in | at | | | | | | state(s) | expiry | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---------+ | T~no\ | when | when | U2nc | see | 3 s | | channel~ | entering | leaving | | s | | | | U2nc | U2nc | | ubclause | | | | | | | 6.3.1 | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---------+ | T | when | when | U0.p, U1 | see | 7 s | | ~MM-est~ | entering | leaving | | s | | | | U0.p | U0.p or | | ubclause | | | | using | U1 | | 6.2.1 | | | | the | | | | | | | set-up | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | rocedure | | | | | | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | entering | | | | | | | U1 using | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | mmediate | | | | | | | set-up | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | rocedure | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---------+ | T~term~ | when | when | U5 | abort | 10 s | | | sending | r | | group | | | | a | eceiving | | call | | | | TER | a | | | | | | MINATION | TER | | | | | | REQUEST | MINATION | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | TER | | | | | | | MINATION | | | | | | | REJECT | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---------+ | T~co | when | when | U4 | abort | 10‑30 s | | nn\ req~ | entering | leaving | | group | | | | state U4 | state U4 | | call | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---------+
##### 6.1.2.1.11 Consistency of parameters and states
The MS shall consider the following parameter values as inconsistent with the
state or sub-state:
\- ORIG = T is inconsistent with states U3 and U4.
\- COMM = T is inconsistent with states U0, U3, U4, and with sub-states U2nc
and U2r of state U2.
All other values of parameters ORIG, COMM, D-ATT, and U-ATT shall not be
considered by the MS as inconsistent with a state or sub-state.
#### 6.1.2.2 Group call control states at the network side of the interface
##### 6.1.2.2.1 NULL (State N0)
No group call exists for the GCC entity.
##### 6.1.2.2.2 GROUP CALL INITIATED (N1)
The GCC entity has received the indication that a peer entity in a MS wants to
establish a group call for a certain group identity or group identity with
prefix.
##### 6.1.2.2.3 GROUP CALL ACTIVE (N2)
The group call is established in at least one cell; there may be a MS which
has seized the uplink or not; there may be talking dispatchers or not.
##### 6.1.2.2.4 GROUP CALL ESTABLISHMENT PROCEEDING (N3)
The GCC entity wants to accept the group call, has initiated establishment of
corresponding group call channels, and, if there is a calling user. has sent a
CONNECT message to the calling user (if there is a calling user).
##### 6.1.2.2.5 TERMINATION REQUESTED (N4)
The GCC entity has asked lower sub-layers to terminate the group call in all
cells and waits for a confirmation that the group call has been terminated in
all cells.
## 6.2 Procedures for establishment of a group call
### 6.2.1 Activation of a group call by the network
The GCC entity in the network may initiate the activation of a group call with
a certain group call reference and priority in a list of cells by asking lower
layers to establish the group call with that group call reference and priority
in those cells. It then waits until it is informed by lower (sub-)layers that
resource activation was sufficiently successful, and enters state N2, GC
ACTIVE.
### 6.2.2 Mobile originated establishment
Higher layers in the MS may ask the GCC entity in state U0, NULL, to establish
a group call, either using the immediate set-up procedure or using the set-up
procedure. The request contains a group-identity and optionally a prefix for
the group identity. The request may also contain a priority indication and a
requested talker priority.
A mobile station supporting the use of talker priorities shall check with the
SIM/USIM whether the subscriber is allowed to use the requested talker
priority for the respective group identity before signalling the talker
priority to the network. If the subscriber is not allowed to use the requested
talker priority, the MS shall reduce the talker priority to a value the
subscriber is allowed to use.
On request of higher layers to establish a group call using the set-up
procedure, the GCC entity of the MS builds an appropriate SETUP message and
asks lower (sub-)layers to establish an MM connection explicitly (i.e. by use
of a CM SERVICE REQUEST message) and to transmit the SETUP message. It then
enters state U0.p, MM CONNECTION PENDING. In state U0.p, when informed by
lower sub-layers that an MM connection has been established, the GCC entity in
the MS shall stop timer TMM-est and enter state U1, GC INITIATED.
On request of higher layers to establish a group call using the immediate set-
up procedure, the GCC entity of the MS builds an appropriate IMMEDIATE SETUP
message and asks lower (sub‑)layers to establish an MM connection implicitly
(see 3GPP TS 24.008) and to transmit the IMMEDIATE SETUP message. It sets
timer TMM-est and then enters state U1, GC INITIATED.
The network GCC entity in state NULL may receive a set-up message from its
peer entity in the originating MS. This set-up message is either a SETUP
message or an IMMEDIATE SETUP message. The network enters state N1, GC
INITIATED.
In state N1, the network decides whether:
> (a) the establishment is accepted; or
>
> (b) the establishment rejected; or
>
> (c) the MS is passed to an existing group call.
In case (a), the GCC entity in the network considers the peer entity in the MS
having sent the set-up message to be the calling user and asks lower layers to
activate the appropriate resources. It then:
1) waits until it is informed by lower (sub-)layers that resource activation
was sufficiently successful, then sends a CONNECT message to the calling user,
and enters state N2, GC ACTIVE; or
2) sends a CONNECT message to the calling user and enters N3, GC ESTABLISHMENT
PROCEEDING. In state N3, the GCC entity is informed by lower layers whenever
the status of resources for the group call is changed. When informed that
activation of resources was sufficiently successful, the GCC entity in the
network enters state N2, ACTIVE.
The CONNECT message specifies the group call reference of the group call and
indicates that the MS is the originator of the group call. If the network
supports the use of talker priorities, it shall also include the talker
priority used by the network for the setup of the group call.
In case b), the further proceeding is as defined in subclause 6.2.2.1.
In case c), the GCC entity in the network considers the peer entity in the MS
having sent the SETUP message not to be the calling user; it may ask lower
layers about the status of appropriate resources; it may ask lower layers to
modify the resources for the group call. It then:
1) waits until it is informed by lower (sub-)layers that resource modification
was sufficiently successful, then sends a CONNECT message to the calling user,
and enters state N2, GC ACTIVE; or
2) sends a CONNECT message to the calling user and enters N3, GC ESTABLISHMENT
PROCEEDING. In state N3, the GCC entity is informed by lower layers whenever
the status of resources for the group call is changed. When informed that
activation of resources was sufficiently successful, the GCC entity in the
network enters state N2, ACTIVE.
The CONNECT message specifies the group call reference of the group call and
indicates that the MS is not the originator of the group call. If the network
supports the use of talker priorities, it shall also include the talker
priority used by the network.
In state U0.p or U1, the GCC entity in the MS shall, on receipt of a CONNECT
message, establish the conditions defined for state U2, ACTIVE and the
suitable sub-state (see subclause 6.1.2.1), stop timer TMM-est (if running)
and enter state U2, ACTIVE. If the immediate set-up procedure has been used,
the GCC entity in the MS shall inform lower sub-layers that the MM connection
has been implicitly established.
#### 6.2.2.1 Termination during mobile originated establishment
At any time during the mobile originated establishment of a group call, the
network may decide to terminate the connection between the two peer entities
in the network and MS. In this case the network sends a TERMINATION message to
the MS specifying the appropriate cause; it may ask lower (sub-)layers to
release associated resources. The further actions are specified in subclause
6.4.
During mobile originated establishment of a group call, the MS may abort the
group call, see subclause 6.4.
#### 6.2.2.2 Abnormal cases
At expiry of TMM-est, or radio link failure (see 3GPP TS 44.018), the GCC
entity in the MS requests lower sub-layers to abort the MM connection
establishment and returns to state U0, NULL(this includes clearing of the
context related to the group call establishment).
On receipt of an indication of lower sub-layers that the MM connection
establishment was unsuccessful, the GCC entity in the MS returns to state U0,
NULL (this includes clearing of the context related to the group call
establishment).
### 6.2.3 Mobile terminating group call establishment in the MS
The GCC entity in the MS, being in state U0, NULL, may receive an indication
of lower layers that a group call exists. This indication specifies the group
identity and group call area identity, a priority, and optionally a talker
priority and an emergency mode indication. The GCC entity shall then inform
higher layers and enter state U3, GC present. This state may be supervised by
a timer at expiry of which the GCC entity clears the context and returns to
state U0, NULL.
In state U3, on request of higher layers to join the group call, the GCC
entity in the MS stops any running timer, asks lower sub-layers to join the
group call, starts timer Tconn req, and enters state U4, GC CONNECTION
REQUESTED.
In state U4, on indication of lower sub-layers that the group call has been
joint (his indication specifies the mode of the RR connection), the GCC entity
in the MS stops any running timer, enters state U2, ACTIVE and appropriate
sub-state, establishes the appropriate configurations (see subclause 6.1) and
informs higher layers (this includes information about the sub-state). The MS
assumes not to be the originator of the group call (ORIG = F).
## 6.3 Procedures during the active state of a group call
### 6.3.1 Mobile station procedures in the active state
In the active state, the GCC entity in the MS performs, on receipt of messages
from its peer entity, on request of higher layers, and on indication of lower
sub-layers, sub-state transitions as defined below together with the necessary
related actions.
On request of higher layers, the MS initiates abort or termination of the
group call, see subclause 6.4.
If the network initiates group call abortion or termination, the MS reacts as
specified in subclause 6.4.
On radio link failure, the MS aborts the group call, see subclause 6.4.
#### 6.3.1.1 Sub-state transitions in the MS
When in sub-state U2sl or U2s of the GC ACTIVE state (U2), the GCC entity in
the MS enters on request of higher layers sub-state U2wr and asks RR to enter
RR receive mode.
When in sub-state U2r or U2wr of the GC ACTIVE state, the GCC entity in the MS
enters on request of higher layers sub-state U2ws and asks RR to enter group
transmit mode.
When in the GC ACTIVE state, the GCC entity in the MS may be informed by lower
layers that the RR connection mode has changed. It shall then enter the
appropriate sub-state and perform appropriate actions as specified below:
\- the appropriate sub-state is derived from the RR mode as specified in table
6.2;
\- when no RR connection is available, the GCC entity in the MS starts timer
Tno channel and enters sub-state NO CHANNEL. In this sub-state, when Tno
channel expires, the GCC entity in the MS informs higher layers, asks lower
sub-layers to abort resources and enters the idle state;
\- further actions in the MS are defined in subclause of 6.1.2.1.
Table 6.2: RR mode
* * *
RR mode U2 sub-state Idle U2nc Group Receive mode U2r Group transmit mode U2sr
Dedicated mode U2sl
* * *
Having entered sub-state U2ws, the MS not considering itself as the originator
of the group call (ORIG = F) shall consider the transaction identifier
received in the next GCC message from the network to be the TI of the group
call.
### 6.3.2 Network procedures in the active state
In the active state the GCC entity in the network performs supervisory
functions, maintenance functions and resource modifications which are not
further specified. (This includes through-connection of the application data
stream(s), which is defined in 3GPP TS 43.068).
The network may initiate abort or termination of the group call, see subclause
6.4.
If the MS initiates group call abortion or termination, the network reacts as
specified in subclause 6.4.
The network may send a SET PARAMETER message to the MS in order to ask the MS
to set parameters to certain values and take consequential actions.
The GCC entity in the network may be informed by lower (sub-)layers that a MS
has requested the uplink. It may accept this request; in this case it should
send a SET PARAMETER message to the MS requesting the MS to set parameter COMM
to the value T.
## 6.4 Procedures for release, abortion, and termination of a group call
### 6.4.1 Termination procedure
The MS assuming to be the originator of the group call shall, on request of
higher layers:
\- if COMM = T, initiate the termination procedure by sending a TERMINATION
REQUEST message to its peer entity in the network and setting timer Tterm;
\- otherwise, the request is considered to be pending. If the MS is in sub-
state U2r, it shall enter sub-state U2ws and ask RR to enter group transmit
mode. While the request is pending, the request may be deleted by higher
layers. While the request is pending, as soon as COMM = T, the MS shall send a
TERMINATION REQUEST message to its peer entity in the network, set timer Tterm
and no more consider the request as pending.
The network either accepts the termination by sending a TERMINATION or rejects
termination by sending a TERMINATION REJECT. These messages indicate an
appropriate cause.
In state U5, on receipt of a TERMINATION REJECT message, the GCC entity in the
MS informs higher layers and stops Tterm.
In state U5, on Tterm expiry, the GCC entity in the MS informs higher layers,
asks lower sub-layers to abort the group call, clears the context related to
the group call, and returns to state U0, NULL.
In any state, on receipt of a TERMINATION message, the GCC entity in the MS
informs higher layers, asks lower sub-layers to release the group call, clears
the context related to the group call, and returns to state U0, NULL.
At any time during a group call, the network may decide to terminate the
connection between the two peer entities in the network and MS. In this case
the network sends a TERMINATION message to the MS specifying the appropriate
cause; it may ask lower (sub-)layers to release associated resources. The
further actions are specified above in this subclause 6.4.
### 6.4.2 Abort and release procedures
The network may ask lower sub-layers to abort or release the group call. The
MS will detect abort of the group call by detecting a radio link failure, and
a group call release by release of the RR resources. The GCC entity in the MS
shall then inform higher layers, ask lower sub-layers to abort the group call,
clear the context related to the group call, and return to state U0, NULL.
The MS shall, on request of higher layers, initiate the release procedure by
asking lower sub-layers to release the group call, clearing the context
related to the group call, and returning to state U0, NULL.
The GCC entity in the MS shall when required by the GCC protocol, abort the
group call by requesting lower layers to abort the group call, informing
higher layers, clearing the context related to the group call, and returning
to state U0, NULL.
## 6.5 Miscellaneous procedures
### 6.5.1 Status procedures
#### 6.5.1.1 Get status procedure
Upon receipt of a GET STATUS message, the MS shall:
\- if COMM = T, respond with a STATUS messagereporting the current call state,
the current values of configuration and behaviour parameters and cause value #
30 \"Response to GET STATUS\";
\- if COMM = F, consider the response to be pending. If the MS is in sub-state
U2r, it shall enter sub-state U2ws and ask RR to enter group transmit mode.
While the request is pending, as soon as COMM = T, the MS shall send a STATUS
message, reporting the current call state, the current values of configuration
and behaviour parameters and cause value # 30 \"Response to GET STATUS\" and
no more consider the request as pending.
#### 6.5.1.2 Set parameter procedure
Upon receipt of a SET PARAMETER message the MS shall set the parameters to the
indicated values and the configuration shall be adapted to the new values of
configuration parameters, if they are consistent with the current GCC state
and sub-state (see subclause 6.1.2). If they are not:
\- if COMM, before the message was received, is equal to T, it shall send a
STATUS message specifying error cause \"message incompatible with protocol
state\", the state and, if applicable, sub-state, and the _state attributes_
IE;
\- if COMM, before the message was received, is equal to F, it shall ignore
the message.
# 7 Handling of unknown, unforeseen, and erroneous protocol data
## 7.1 General
This subclause specifies procedures for the handling of unknown, unforeseen,
and erroneous protocol data by the receiving GCC protocol entity in the MS.
These procedures are called \"error handling procedures\", but in addition to
providing recovery mechanisms for error situations they define a compatibility
mechanism for future extensions of the protocols. Error handling procedures in
the network are for further study.
Subclauses 7.1 to 7.8 shall be applied in order of precedence.
Most error handling procedures are mandatory for the MS.
In this clause the following terminology is used:
\- an IE is defined to be syntactically incorrect in a message if it contains
at least one value defined as \"reserved\" in clause 9, or if its value part
violates rules of clause 9. However it is not a syntactical error that a TLV
encoded IE specifies in its length indicator a greater length than defined in
clause 9;
\- a message is defined to have semantically incorrect contents if it contains
information which, possibly dependant on the state of the receiver, is in
contradiction to the resources of the receiver and/or to the procedural part
(i.e. clauses 6 and 7) of the present document.
## 7.2 Message too short
When a message is received that is too short to contain a complete message
type information element, that message shall be ignored, see 3GPP TS 24.007.
## 7.3 Unknown or unforeseen transaction identifier
If COMM = T, the MS shall answer to a message received with TI value \"111\"
by sending a STATUS message with same TI value, cause \"invalid transaction
identifier value\", and including, if possible, as diagnostics the complete
message received (this may not be possible, e.g. due to length restrictions).
If COMM = F, the MS shall ignore a message received with TI value \"111\".
For a group call control message received with TI different from \"111\", the
following procedures shall apply.
Whenever a message is received specifying a transaction identifier which is
not recognized as relating to an active transaction, if COMM = F, the MS shall
ignore the message; if COMM = T, the MS shall send a STATUS message with cause
#81 \"invalid transaction identifier value\" using the received transaction
identifier value and including, if possible, as diagnostics the complete
message received (this may not be possible, e.g. due to length restrictions).
and remain idle.
## 7.4 Unknown or unforeseen message type
If the protocol entity in the MS receives a message with message type not
defined for the PD or not implemented by the receiver, it shall ignore the
message except for the fact that, if COMM = T, it shall return a STATUS
message with cause \"message type non-existent or not implemented\" and
including as diagnostics the message type of the message received.
NOTE: A message type not defined for the PD in the given direction is regarded
by the receiver as a message type not defined for the PD, see 3GPP TS 24.007.
If the protocol entity in the MS receives a message not compatible with the
protocol state, the MS shall ignore the message except for the fact that, if
COMM = T, it returns a STATUS message with cause \"message type not compatible
with protocol state\" and including as diagnostics the message type of the
message received.
## 7.5 Non-semantical mandatory information element errors
When on receipt of a message:
\- an \"imperative message part\" error; or
\- a \"missing mandatory IE\" error;
is diagnosed or when a message containing:
\- a syntactically incorrect mandatory IE; or
\- an IE unknown in the message, but encoded as \"comprehension required\"
(see 3GPP TS 24.008, subclause 10.5); or
\- an out of sequence IE encoded as \"comprehension required\" (see 3GPP TS
24.008, subclause 10.5);
is received:
\- the MS shall, if COMM = F, ignore the message. Otherwise it shall proceed
as follows:
\- the MS shall ignore the message except for the fact that it shall return a
STATUS message with cause \"invalid mandatory information\" and including, if
possible, as diagnostics the complete message received (this may not be
possible, e.g. due to length restrictions).
## 7.6 Unknown and unforeseen information elements in the non-imperative
message part
### 7.6.1 Information elements unknown in the message
The protocol entity in the MS shall ignore all information elements unknown in
a message which are not encoded as \"comprehension required\".
### 7.6.2 Out of sequence information elements
The MS shall ignore all out of sequence Information elements in a message
which are not encoded as \"comprehension required\".
### 7.6.3 Repeated Information elements
If an information element with format T, TV, or TLV is repeated in a message
in which repetition of the information element is not specified in clause 8,
only the contents of the information element appearing first shall be handled
and all subsequent repetitions of the information element shall be ignored.
When repetition of information elements is specified, only the contents of
specified repeated information elements shall be handled. If the limit on
repetition of information elements is exceeded, the contents of information
elements appearing first up to the limit of repetitions shall be handled and
all subsequent repetitions of the information element shall be ignored.
## 7.7 Non-imperative message part errors
This category includes:
\- syntactically incorrect optional Information elements;
\- conditional IE errors.
### 7.7.1 Syntactically incorrect optional Information elements
The protocol entity shall treat all optional Information elements that are
syntactically incorrect in a message as not present in the message.
## 7.8 Messages with semantically incorrect contents
When a message with semantically incorrect contents is received, the foreseen
reactions of the procedural part (i.e. of clauses 5 and 6) of the present
document are performed. If however no such reactions are specified, the MS
shall ignore the message except for the fact that, if COMM = T, it returns a
STATUS message with cause value \"semantically incorrect message\" and
including, if possible, as diagnostics the complete message received (this may
not be possible, e.g. due to length restrictions).
# 8 Message functional definitions and contents
This subclause defines the structure of the messages of those layer 3
protocols defined in the present document, that is the GCC protocol.
All messages are standard L3 messages as defined in 3GPP TS 24.007.
Each definition given in the present subclause includes:
\- a brief description of the message direction and use;
\- a definition in which direction the message is defined;
\- a table listing the information elements permitted to be in that message
and their order of their appearance in the message. All information elements
that may be repeated are explicitly indicated. Neither the network nor the MS
is allowed to include information elements in a message which are not
specified for the message or to include the information elements in the
message in an order different from the specified order. ( V and LV formatted
IEs, which compose the imperative part of the message, occur before T, TV, and
TLV formatted IEs which compose the non-imperative part of the message, cf.
3GPP TS 24.007.) In a (maximal) sequence of consecutive information elements
with half octet length, the first information element with half octet length
occupies bits 1 to 4 of octet N, the second bits 5 to 8 of octet N, the third
bits 1 to 4 of octet N+1 etc. Such a sequence always has an even number of
elements.
For each information element the table indicates:
1) if the IE has format T, TV, or TLV, the IEI used by the IE at the indicated
position in the message, in hexadecimal notation. If the IEI has half octet
length, this is specified by a notation representing the IEI as a hexadecimal
digit followed by a \"-\" (example: B-);
2) the name of the information element (which may give an idea of the
semantics of the element). The name of the information element (usually
written in italics) followed by \"IE\" or \"information element\" is used in
3GPP TS 24.008 as reference to the information element within a message;
3) the name of the type of the information element (which indicates the coding
of the value part of the IE), and generally, the referenced subclause of
clause 9 describing the value part of the information element;
4) the presence requirement indication (M or O) for the IE as defined in 3GPP
TS 24.007 (Presence requirement indication C is not used in the present
document);
5) the format of the information element (T, V, TV, LV, TLV) as defined in
3GPP TS 24.007;
6) the length of the information element (or permissible range of lengths), in
octets, in the message. This indication is normative. However, further
restrictions to the length of an IE may be specified elsewhere.
subclauses specifying, where appropriate;
\- the meaning of; and
\- conditions for;
absence, repeated occurrence, and/or presence for IEs with presence
requirement O in the relevant message which together with other conditions
specified in the present document define when the information elements shall
be included or not, what presence, repeated occurrence, and absence of such
IEs means.
Table 8.1 summarizes the messages for GCC. A letter D (\"downlink\") specifies
that the message is defined in the direction network to mobile station, a
letter U (\"uplink\") specifies that the message is defined in the direction
mobile station to network.
> Message Reference Direction\ \ DATA 8.1 D,U\ IMMediate Setup 8.2 no\ RELEASE
> COMPLETE 8.3 D,U U\ SETUP 8.4 D,U\ SETUP ACKNOWLEDGE 8.5 D,U\ RESUME 8.6 U\
> RESUME ACK 8.7 D
>
> STATUS 8.8 D,U
Table 8.1
Messages for GCC
## 8.1 CONNECT
This message is sent by the network to the calling MS in order to indicate
establishment of the requested group call.
See table 8.1.
Message type: CONNECT;
Significance: dual;
Direction: network to MS.
Table 8.1: CONNECT message content
+-----+------------------------+-------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | IEI | Information element | Type / Reference | Presence | Format | Length | +-----+------------------------+-------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Group Call control\ | Protocol discriminator\ | M | V | 1/2 | | | protocol discriminator | subclause 9.1 | | | | +-----+------------------------+-------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Transaction identifier | Transaction identifier\ | M | V | 1/2 | | | | subclause 9.2 | | | | +-----+------------------------+-------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Connect\ | Message type\ | M | V | 1 | | | message type | subclause 9.3 | | | | +-----+------------------------+-------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Group call reference | Call reference\ | M | V | 4 | | | | subclause 9.4.1 | | | | +-----+------------------------+-------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Originator indication | Originator indication\ | M | V | 1/2 | | | | subclause 9.4.4 | | | | +-----+------------------------+-------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Talker priority used | Talker priority\ | M | V | 1/2 | | | | subclause 9.4.9 | | | | +-----+------------------------+-------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | D- | SMS indications | SMS indications | O | TV | 1 | | | | | | | | | | | subclause 9.4.10 | | | | +-----+------------------------+-------------------------+----------+--------+--------+
### 8.1.1 SMS indications
This IE shall be included if the network supports the transfer of mobile
originated point-to-point short messages via the group call channel. If this
IE is not received the MS shall assume the default settings "SMS guaranteed
privacy required" and "SMS data confidentiality required".
## 8.2 GET STATUS
This message is sent by the network at any time to solicit a STATUS message
from the MS in acknowledged or unacknowledged mode.
See table 8.2.
Message type: GET STATUS;
Significance: local;
Direction: network to MS.
Table 8.2: GET STATUS message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type / Reference Presence Format Length
        protocol discriminator   protocol discriminator\              M          V        1/2
                                 subclause 9.1
        transaction identifier   transaction identifier\              M          V        1/2
                                 subclause 9.2
        message type             message type\                        M          V        1
                                 subclause 9.3
17 mobile identity mobile identity\ O TLV 3‑10 3GPP TS 24.008, subclause
10.5.1.4
* * *
### 8.2.1 mobile identity
This IE is included if the network wishes so. If the message is received by
the MS in acknowledged mode, it shall be ignored by the MS. If received in
unacknowledged mode, it specifies the destination MS, see clause 5.
## 8.3 IMMEDIATE SETUP
This message is sent by the MS to the network in order to set-up a group call
immediately, i.e. without previous establishment of an MM connection. See
table 8.3.
Message type: IMMEDIATE SETUP;
Significance: dual;
Direction: MS to network.
Table 8.3: IMMEDIATE SETUP message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type / Reference Presence Format Length
        protocol discriminator          protocol discriminator\              M          V        1/2
                                        subclause 9.1
        transaction identifier          transaction identifier\              M          V        1/2
                                        subclause 9.2
        message type                    message type\                        M          V        1
                                        subclause 9.3
        Talker priority requested       Talker priority\                     M          V        1/2
                                        subclause 9.4.9
        Ciphering key sequence number   Ciphering key sequence number\       M          V        1/2
                                        3GPP TS 24.008, subclause 10.5.1.2
        Mobile station classmark        Mobile station classmark 2\          M          LV       4
                                        3GPP TS 24.008, subclause 10.5.1.6
        Mobile identity                 Mobile identity\                     M          LV       2‑9
                                        3GPP TS 24.008, subclause 10.5.1.4
        Group identity                  Call reference\                      M          V        4
                                        subclause 9.4.1
* * *
### 8.3.1 Mobile identity
This IE shall specify the TMSI, if available, and the IMSI else.
## 8.3a IMMEDIATE SETUP 2
This message is sent by the MS to the network in order to set-up a group call
immediately, i.e. without previous establishment of an MM connection, and to
include compressed originator-to dispatcher information. The message shall
only be used if the MS has a valid TMSI. See table 8.3a.
Message type: IMMEDIATE SETUP 2;
Significance: dual
Direction: MS to network.
Table 8.3a: IMMEDIATE SETUP 2 message content
+-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | IEI | Information | Type / | Presence | Format | Length | | | element | Reference | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Protocol | Protocol | M | V | 1/2 | | | di | dis | | | | | | scriminator | criminator\ | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 9.1 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Transaction | Transaction | M | V | 1/2 | | | identifier | identifier\ | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 9.2 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Message | Message | M | V | 1 | | | type | type\ | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 9.3 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Talker | Talker | M | V | 1/2 | | | priority | priority\ | | | | | | requested | subclause | | | | | | | 9.4.9 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Ciphering | Ciphering | M | V | 1/2 | | | key | key | | | | | | sequence | sequence | | | | | | number | number | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | | 24.008, | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 10.5.1.2 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Mobile | Mobile | M | LV | 4 | | | station | station | | | | | | classmark | classmark | | | | | | | 2\ | | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | | 24.008, | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 10.5.1.6 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | TMSI | T | M | V | 4 | | | | MSI/P-TMSI\ | | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | | TS 44.018, | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 10.5.2.42 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Group | Call | M | V | 4 | | | identity | reference\ | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 9.4.1 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Compressed | Compressed | M | V | 5 | | | otdi | otdi\ | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 9.4.8 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+
### 8.3a.1 TMSI
The _TMSI_ information element indicates the Temporary Mobile Subscriber
Identity of the MS.
### 8.3a.2 Compressed otdi
This information element contains compressed originator-to-dispatcher
information.
## 8.4. SET PARAMETER
This message is sent by the network at any time to ask the MS for setting of
parameters and consequential actions. See table 8.4.
Message type: SET PARAMETER;
Significance: local;
Direction: network to MS.
Table 8.4: SET PARAMETER message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type / Reference Presence Format Length
        protocol discriminator   protocol discriminator\   M          V        1/2
                                 subclause 9.1
        transaction identifier   transaction identifier\   M          V        1/2
                                 subclause 9.2
        message type             message type\             M          V        1
                                 subclause 9.3
        state attributes         state attributes\         M          V        1/2
                                 subclause 9.4.7
        spare half octet         spare half octet\         M          V        1/2
                                 subclause 9.4.6
* * *
## 8.5 SETUP
This message is sent by the MS to the network in order to set-up a group call
after establishment of an MM connection. See table 8.5.
Message type: SETUP;
Significance: dual;
Direction: MS to network.
Table 8.5: SETUP message content
+-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | IEI | Information | Type / | Presence | Format | Length | | | element | Reference | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | protocol | protocol | M | V | 1/2 | | | di | dis | | | | | | scriminator | criminator\ | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 9.1 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | transaction | transaction | M | V | 1/2 | | | identifier | identifier\ | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 9.2 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | message | message | M | V | 1 | | | type | type\ | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 9.3 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | | Group | Call | M | V | 4 | | | identity | reference | | | | | | | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 9.4.1 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | 7E | Or | User-user\ | O | TLV | 3 - 35 | | | iginator-to | 3GPP | | | | | | -dispatcher | TS 24.008 | | | | | | information | subclause | | | | | | | 10.5.4.25 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+ | C- | Talker | Talker | O | TV | 1 | | | priority | priority\ | | | | | | requested | subclause | | | | | | | 9.4.9 | | | | +-----+-------------+-------------+----------+--------+--------+
### 8.5.1 Originator-to-dispatcher information
The _Originator-to-dispatcher_ IE specifies originator-to-dispatcher
information. The coding of the IE is equal to the coding of User-user
information defined in 3GPP TS 24.008 subclause 10.5.4.25.
### 8.5.2 Talker priority requested
This information element shall be included in the message, if the talker
priority requested by the subscriber is higher than \"normal priority\" and
the subscriber is allowed to use the requested talker priority for the
respective group identity.
## 8.6 STATUS
This message is sent by the MS to the network at any time during a call to
report certain error conditions listed in clause 8. It shall also be sent in
response to a GET STATUS message. See table 8.6.
Message type: STATUS;
Significance: local;
Direction: MS to network.
Table 8.6: STATUS message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type / Reference Presence Format Length
        protocol discriminator   protocol discriminator\   M          V        1/2
                                 subclause 9.1
        transaction identifier   transaction identifier\   M          V        1/2
                                 subclause 9.2
        message type             message type\             M          V        1
                                 subclause 9.3
        cause                    cause\                    M          LV       2 ‑ 248
                                 subclause 9.4.3
A- call state call state\ O TV 1 subclause 9.4.2
B- state attributes state attributes\ O TV 1 subclause 9.4.7
* * *
### 8.6.1 Call state
This IE may always be included in the message. In certain cases identified in
the present document, the IE shall be included in the message, e.g.: when used
in the get status procedure.
### 8.6.2 State attributes
This IE may always be included in the message. In certain cases identified in
the present document, the IE shall be included in the message, e.g.: when used
in the get status procedure.
## 8.7 TERMINATION
This message is sent by the network to the MS in order to indicate that the
group call has been or will be terminated, e.g. as a response to a termination
request. See table 8.7.
Message type: TERMINATION;
Significance: dual;
Direction: network to MS.
Table 8.7: TERMINATION message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type / Reference Presence Format Length
        protocol discriminator   protocol discriminator\   M          V        1/2
                                 subclause 9.1
        transaction identifier   transaction identifier\   M          V        1/2
                                 subclause 9.2
        message type             message type\             M          V        1
                                 subclause 9.3
        cause                    cause\                    M          LV       2 ‑ 248
                                 subclause 9.4.3
* * *
## 8.8 TERMINATION REJECT
This message is sent by the network to the MS in order to reject a termination
request, for example because the MS is not the originator of the group call.
See table 8.8.
Message type: TERMINATION REJECT;
Significance: dual;
Direction: network to MS.
Table 8.8: TERMINATION REJECT message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type / Reference Presence Format Length
        protocol discriminator   protocol discriminator\   M          V        1/2
                                 subclause 9.1
        transaction identifier   transaction identifier\   M          V        1/2
                                 subclause 9.2
        message type             message type\             M          V        1
                                 subclause 9.3
        Reject cause             Cause\                    M          LV       2 - 248
                                 subclause 9.4.3
* * *
## 8.9 TERMINATION REQUEST
This message is sent by the MS to the network in order to request termination
of a group call which it had originated. See table 8.9.
Message type: TERMINATION REQUEST;
Significance: dual;
Direction: MS to network.
Table 8.9: TERMINATION REQUEST message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type / Reference Presence Format Length
        protocol discriminator   protocol discriminator\           M          V        1/2
                                 subclause 9.1
        transaction identifier   transaction identifier\           M          V        1/2
                                 subclause 9.2
        message type             message type\                     M          V        1
                                 subclause 9.3
        Group call reference     Call reference\                   M          V        4
                                 subclause 9.4.1
C- Talker priority Talker priority subclause 9.4.9 O TV 1
* * *
### 8.9.1 Talker priority
This information element shall be included in the message if the subscriber
obtained the uplink with a priority higher than \"normal priority\".
# 9 Contents of information elements value parts
The figures and text in this clause describe the contents of Information
Elements (IE) value parts. The structure of an IE as composed of Information
Element Identifier (IEI), length, and value part is defined in 3GPP TS 24.007.
## 9.1 Protocol Discriminator
The Protocol Discriminator (PD) and its use are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007.
## 9.2 Transaction identifier
Bits 5 to 8 of the first octet of every message belonging to the GCC protocol
contain the transaction identifier (TI). The transaction identifier and its
use are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007.
## 9.3 Message Type
The message type IE and its use are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007. Table 9.1
defines the value part of the message type IE used in the GCC protocol.
Table 9.1: Message types for GCC
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
0 x 1 1 0 0 0 1 IMMEDIATE SETUP 0 x 1 1 0 0 1 0 SETUP 0 x 1 1 0 0 1 1 CONNECT
0 x 1 1 0 1 0 0 TERMINATION 0 x 1 1 0 1 0 1 TERMINATION REQUEST 0 x 1 1 0 1 1
0 TERMINATION REJECT 0 x 1 1 1 0 0 0 STATUS 0 x 1 1 1 0 0 1 GET STATUS 0 x 1 1
1 0 1 0 SET PARAMETER 0 x 1 1 1 0 1 1 IMMEDIATE SETUP 2
* * *
Bit 8 is reserved for possible future use as an extension bit, see 3GPP TS
24.007.
Bit 7 is reserved for the send sequence number in GCC messages sent from the
MS. In GCC messages sent from the network an, bit 7 is coded with a \"0\", see
3GPP TS 24.007.
## 9.4 Other information elements
For coding of other IEs, the rules defined in 3GPP TS 24.007 annex B apply.
### 9.4.1 Call Reference
The _Call Reference_ information element identifies the group call reference,
group identity or group identity with prefix of a group call. It is coded as
shown below. It is a type 3 information element.
_\ _ ::= **reference** _{_ **0** **spare_4** _\|_ **1** {
**priority** spare_1 } _}_
**Attributes**
The information element defines a reference which, depending on the situation,
is to be interpreted as a group call reference, group identity, or as a group
identity with prefix. If the **priority** field is present in _\ _, the information element also specifies a priority.
If the _Call Reference_ IE is included in the SETUP message and if the
**priority** field is present in _\ _, then the MS shall set
the priority value to be the same as the priority value in the
CM_SERVICE_REQUEST message.
**Field contents**
The field of the _call reference_ information element are coded as shown in
table 9.2.
Table 9.2: _call reference_ information element
* * *
**reference** (27 bits)
This field contains the 27 bit binary encoding (with leading zeroes) of the
number the decimal encoding of which (with leading zeroes) is the group call
reference, the group identity (see 3GPP TS 23.003), or the group identity with
prefix.  
**priority** (3 bits)
This field encodes the priority level of the call (see 3GPP TS 23.067):  
Bits  
0 0 0 reserved  
0 0 1 priority level 4  
0 1 0 priority level 3  
0 1 1 priority level 2  
1 0 0 priority level 1  
1 0 1 priority level 0  
1 1 0 priority level B  
1 1 1 priority level A  
**spare_4** (4 bits)  
This field shall be ignored  
**spare_1** (1 bit)  
This field shall be ignored
* * *
### 9.4.2 Call state
The _call state_ information element identifies a state, and, if applicable, a
sub-state of the group call protocol at the MS side. It is coded as defined
below. It is a type 1 information element.
_\ _ _::=_ **state**
**Attributes**
The **state** field defines an integer N in the range 0..15. The _call state_
information element defines a call state or a sub-state of state U2, ACTIVE,
of the GCC protocol.
**Field contents**
See table 9.3.
**Static conditions**
The values 12 to 15 of integer N are reserved.
Table 9.3: _call state_ information element
* * *
**state** (4 bits)
                       This field contains the 4 bit encoding (with leading zeroes) of an integer N = 0, 15. The state or substate associated to integer N is defined below:
                       **N**                                                                                                                                                      **state**
                       0                                                                                                                                                          U0
                       1                                                                                                                                                          U1
                       2                                                                                                                                                          U2sl
                       3                                                                                                                                                          U3
                       4                                                                                                                                                          U4
                       5                                                                                                                                                          U5
                       6                                                                                                                                                          U0.p
                       7                                                                                                                                                          U2wr
                       8                                                                                                                                                          U2r
                       9                                                                                                                                                          U2ws
                       10                                                                                                                                                         U2sr
                       11                                                                                                                                                         U2nc
* * *
### 9.4.3 Cause
The purpose of the _cause_ information element is to describe the reason for
generating certain messages and to provide diagnostic information in the event
of procedural errors.
The _cause_ information element is a type 4 information element. Its value
part has a minimal length of 1 octet. The maximum length is given by the
maximum number of octets in a L3 message (see 3GPP TS 44.006).
The value part is coded as shown below:
_\ _ ::= **1** **cause_part** [ **diagnostics** _]_
_\|_ **0 cause_part** _\ _
**Attributes**
The **cause_part** field defines a non-negative integer N. If more than one
**cause_part** fields are present in _\ _, the information element
indicates an unspecific cause; otherwise, it indicates a cause as defined by
N.
**Field contents**
The fields of the information element are coded as shown in table 9.4.
Table 9.4: _cause_ information element
* * *
cause_part (7 bits)
                         This field contains the 7 bit encoding (with leading zeroes) of a non-negative integer which   
                         specifies a cause as defined below:
                         N                                                                                              cause
                         3                                                                                              Illegal MS
                         5                                                                                              IMEI not accepted
                         6                                                                                              Illegal ME
                         8                                                                                              Service not authorized
                         9                                                                                              Application not supported on the protocol
                         10                                                                                             RR connection aborted
                         16                                                                                             Normal call clearing
                         17                                                                                             Network failure
                         20                                                                                             Busy
                         22                                                                                             Congestion
                         23                                                                                             User not originator of call
                         24                                                                                             Network wants to maintain call
                         30                                                                                             Response to GET STATUS
                         32                                                                                             Service option not supported
                         33                                                                                             Requested service option not subscribed
                         34                                                                                             Service option temporarily out of order
                         38                                                                                             Call cannot be identified
                         48 - 63                                                                                        retry upon entry into a new cell
                         81                                                                                             Invalid transaction identifier value
                         95                                                                                             Semantically incorrect message
                         96                                                                                             Invalid mandatory information
                         97                                                                                             Message type non-existent or not implemented
                         98                                                                                             Message type not compatible with the protocol state
                         99                                                                                             Information element non-existent or not implemented
                         100                                                                                            Message type not compatible with the protocol state
                         112                                                                                            Protocol error, unspecified
                         Any other value received shall be treated as an unspecific cause.
**Diagnostics**
                         This field contains a message or information element.
* * *
### 9.4.4 Originator indication
The _originator indication_ information element informs the group call control
entity in the MS whether it is the calling user. It is a type 1 information
element.
The value part is coded as shown below:
_\ _ ::= **spare_3 OI**
**Attributes**
The IE defines whether the MS is the originator of the group call.
**Field contents**
The fields of the information element are coded as shown in table 9.5.
Table 9.5: _originator indication_ information element fields
* * *
**spare_3** (3 bits)  
This field shall be ignored.
**OI** (1 bit)  
**0** The MS is not the originator of the call **1** The MS is the originator
of the call
* * *
### 9.4.5 Not used
### 9.4.6 Spare Half Octet
This element is used in the description of messages in clause 8 when an odd
number of half octet type 1 information elements are used . This element
consists of 4 bits set to zero and is placed in bits 5 to 8 of the octet
unless otherwise specified. It is a type 1 information elemen t. The contents
of this element shall be ignored by the receiver.
### 9.4.7 State attributes
The _state attributes_ information element contains information about
parameter values of the MS. It is a type 1 information element.
The value part is coded as shown below:
_\ _ ::= **DA** **UA** COMM **OI**
**Attributes**
The IE defines values of parameters D-ATT, U-ATT, ORIG, and COMM.
**Field contents**
The fields of the information element are coded as shown in table 9.7.
Table 9.7: _state attributes_ information element fields
* * *
**DA** (1 bit)  
**0** User connection in the downlink not attached (D-ATT = F) **1** User
connection in the downlink attached (D-ATT = T)
**UA** (1 bit)  
**0** User connection in the uplink not attached (U-ATT = F) **1** User
connection in the uplink attached (U-ATT = T)
**COMM** (1 bit)  
**0** COMM = F **1** COMM = T
**OI** (1 bit)  
**0** The MS is not the originator of the call (ORIG = F) **1** The MS is the
originator of the call (ORIG = T)
* * *
### 9.4.8 Compressed otdi
The _Compressed otdi_ information element specifies an integer N in 40 bit
binary representation; bit 8 of octet 1 is the most significant bit and bit 1
of octet 5 is the least significant bit. The integer denotes compressed
originator-to-dispatcher information. The corresponding decompressed
originator-to-dispatcher information is given by the following attributes:
\- User-user protocol discriminator: IA5 characters
> \- User-user information: The user-user information is a string of 12 digits
> which are the decimal representation of the integer N with leading zeros.
> Each digit after decompression is coded in one octet. The bits 1 to 7 are
> used for the coding of the IA5 character, and bit 8 is coded as \"0\". A
> coding example is given in annex A.
### 9.4.9 Talker priority
The _Talker priority_ information element identifies the talker priority
requested or used by the MS or the talker priority used by the network for the
setup of the group call. It is a type 1 information element.
The value part is coded as shown below:
_\ _ _::=_ **spare_1 talker_priority**
**Attributes**
The **talker_priority** field defines the talker priority requested or used by
the MS or the talker priority used by the network.
**Field contents**
The fields of the information element are coded as shown in table 9.8.
Table 9.8: _talker priority_ information element
* * *
**spare_1** (1 bit)
This field shall be encoded as \"0\" and ignored by the receiver.
**priority** (3 bits)
This field encodes the talker priority requested or used by the MS or the
talker priority used by the network.  
Bits  
0 0 0 Normal priority  
0 0 1 Privileged priority  
0 1 0 Emergency priority  
0 1 1 Not used (Note)  
to  
1 1 1 Not used (Note)
An MS or a network not supporting the use of talker priorities shall encode
the priority as \"000\".
Note: This value shall be interpreted by the receiver as \"normal priority\".
* * *
### 9.4.10 SMS indications
The _SMS indications_ information element informs the group call control
entity in the MS whether or not SMS data confidentiality and SMS guaranteed
privacy are required for mobile originated short messages (see TS 43.068 for
further details). It is a type 1 information element.
The value part is coded as shown below:
_\ _ ::= **spare_2 DC GP**
**Attributes**
The IE defines values of parameters DC and GP.
**Field contents**
The fields of the information element are coded as shown in table 9.9.
Table 9.9: _SMS indications_ information element fields
* * *
**spare_2** (2 bits)  
This field shall be encoded as \"00\" and ignored by the receiver.
**DC** (1 bit)  
**0** SMS data confidentiality not required **1** SMS data confidentiality
required
**GP** (1 bit)  
**0** SMS guaranteed privacy not required **1** SMS guaranteed privacy
required
* * *
###### ## Annex A (informative): Example of the coding of the user-user
information after decompression of the originator-to-dispatcher information
If the originator-to-dispatcher information after the decompression in decimal
representation with leading zeros is \"000000009123\", then the user-user
information is coded in IA5 characters as follows:
Table A.1: Example of user-user information in IA5 characters after
decompression
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 content IA5 Code
**0** 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 1. digit: 0 0x30 **0** 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 2. digit: 0 0x30
**0** 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 3. digit: 0 0x30 **0** 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 4. digit: 0 0x30
**0** 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 5. digit: 0 0x30 **0** 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 6. digit: 0 0x30
**0** 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 7. digit: 0 0x30 **0** 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 8. digit: 0 0x30
**0** 0 1 1 1 0 0 1 9. digit: 9 0x39 **0** 0 1 1 0 0 0 1 10. digit: 1 0x31
**0** 0 1 1 0 0 1 0 11. digit: 2 0x32 **0** 0 1 1 0 0 1 1 12. digit: 3 0x33
* * *
#