# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the coding of information necessary for support
of location service operation on the mobile radio interface layer 3 between
the LMU and SMLC.
Clause 4 defines generic procedures for the control of location services. In
clause 5 location service support procedures are defined. Clause 6 gives the
functional definitions and contents of messages for location service
operations. Clause 7 gives the general format and coding for messages used for
location service and the format and coding of information elements used for
location service operations. Clause 6 gives the detailed message format and
information elements coding between the LMU and SMLC.
Clause 8 gives the specification of the LMU LCS Protocol (LLP) operations. In
clause 9 LMU - SMLC messages, data types and identifiers are given.
This version does not support segmentation of messages.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 44.006: \"Mobile Station - Base Station System (MS - BSS)
interface Data Link (DL) layer specification\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General
aspects\".
[4] 3GPP TS 44.018: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Radio
Resource Control Protocol\".
[5] 3GPP TS 43.059: \"Functional Stage 2 Description of Location Services
(LCS) in GERAN\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation X.691 (1997) \| ISO/IEC 8825-2 (1998): \"Information
technology - ASN.1 encoding rules: Specification of Packed Encoding Rules
(PER)\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation X.690 (1997) \| ISO/IEC 8825-1 (1998): \"Information
technology - ASN.1 encoding rules: Specification of Basic Encoding Rules
(BER), Canonical Encoding Rules (CER) and Distinguished Encoding Rules
(DER)\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation X.680 (1997) \| ISO/IEC 8824-1 (1998): \"Information
technology - Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1): Specification of basic
notation\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation Q.773: \"Transaction capabilities formats and
encoding\".
[11] (void)
[12] 3GPP TS 44.004: \"Layer 1; General requirements\".
[13] 3GPP TS 44.005: \"Data Link (DL) layer General aspects\".
[14] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Core
Network Protocols; Stage 3\".
[15] 3GPP TS 45.002: \"Multiplexing and Multiple Access on the Radio Path\".
[16] 3GPP TS 52.071: \"Location Services (LCS); Location services
management\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**E-OTD Assistance Data Message:** contains the RTD and BTS coordinates of the
neighbours that should be used in E-OTD measurements. This E-OTD Assistance
Data is broadcasted using CBCH channel using SMSCB DRX service. The reception
of this broadcast message enables MS to calculate its own location.
**GPS Assistance Data Message:** contains GPS differential corrections. The
reception of this broadcast message enables MS to have calculate more accurate
location estimate.
**GANSS Assistance Data Message:** contains GANSS differential corrections.
The reception of this broadcast message enables MS to have calculate more
accurate location estimate.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 and 3GPP TS 43.059.
# 4 Generic procedures for the control of location services
## 4.1 Overview of the generic protocol and its scope
One generic protocol is defined for the control of location services at the
radio interface. This protocol operates at layer 3 of the radio interface and
assumes the use of layers 1 and 2 conform to 3GPP TS 45‑series and 3GPP TS
44.004, 3GPP TS 44.005 and 3GPP TS 44.006. The generic protocol uses the
acknowledged information transfer service available at the layer 2 ‑ layer 3
interface.
The Functional protocol is based on the use of the Facility information
element and the FACILITY message as well as other specific functional messages
specified in the present document.
## 4.2 Functional procedures for the control of location services
### 4.2.1 General
This subclause specifies the functional signalling procedures for the control
of location services at the radio interface.
The functional protocol utilizes functions and services defined in 3GPP TS
24.008, 3GPP TS 44.018 and the functions of the data link layer as defined in
3GPP TS 44.006. This protocol utilizes also definitions in 3GPP TS 24.007.
The Common Information Element Category utilizes the Facility information
element to transport the protocol defined in the present document. The use of
the Facility information element is common to many services, and its contents
indicates what type of procedure is being requested. This category can be
signalled both in the LMU to network and the network to LMU directions.
The correlation of location service operations and their responses, is
provided by the combination of the transaction identifier of the messages
containing the Facility information element and the Invoke identifier present
within the Facility information element itself.
### 4.2.2 Common Information Element Category
The Common Information Element Category uses operations defined in the present
document for location services signalling. Procedures are initiated by sending
an operation including an invoke component. The invoke component may yield a
Return Error, Return Result or Reject component (also included in an
operation) depending on the outcome of the procedure.
The operation state machines, and procedures for management of Invoke IDs
specified in ITU-T Recommendation Q.774 White Book are used.
A REGISTER message, a FACILITY message or RELEASE COMPLETE message is used to
carry the Facility information element which includes these operations. These
operations request, acknowledge or reject the desired location service
procedure.
### 4.2.3 Location service procedures
#### 4.2.3.1 Introduction
For location service procedures independent of any call, the initiating side
must establish a MM‑connection between the network and the LMU according to
the rules given in 3GPP TS 24.007 and 3GPP TS 24.008. The LMU or the network
starts the transaction by transferring a REGISTER message across the radio
interface. This transaction is identified by the transaction identifier
associated with the REGISTER message present in the component part of the
Facility information element. Following the REGISTER message one or more
FACILITY messages may be transmitted, all of them related by the use of the
same transaction identifier. If the transaction is no longer used, it shall be
released by sending a RELEASE COMPLETE message. This procedure is specified in
detail in clause 5, and the text in clause 5 takes precedence over this
introduction.
To convey the location service invocation, the Facility information element is
used. The Facility information element present either in the REGISTER message
or a subsequent message identifies the location service involved and the type
of component (i.e. Invoke, Return result, Return error or Reject component).
When the REGISTER or FACILITY message contains a Facility information element
and the requested service is available, a FACILITY message containing a
Facility information element may be returned. One or more exchanges of
FACILITY messages may subsequently occur. To terminate the service interaction
and release the transaction identifier value, a RELEASE COMPLETE message is
sent as specified for the specific location service procedure. The RELEASE
COMPLETE message may also contain the Facility information element.
#### 4.2.3.2 Handling of protocol errors in LCS procedures
Messages containing a Facility information element shall be checked for
protocol errors before the contents of the Facility IE is acted on. The checks
shall be performed in the following order:
1) The message carrying the Facility IE shall be checked for protocol errors
as specified in subclause 5.7. If a protocol error is found then the
procedures in subclause 5.7 apply.
2) The contents of the Facility IE shall be checked for protocol errors as
specified in subclause 4.2.6. If a protocol error is found then the procedures
in subclause 4.2.6 apply.
#### 4.2.3.3 Handling of other errors in LCS procedures
If the tests specified in subclause 4.2.3.2 have been passed without the
detection of a protocol error, the receiver will attempt to process the
contents of the Facility Information Element. If errors occur during this
processing (e.g. system failure, or information in the Facility IE is
incompatible with the requested operation) then the procedures specified in
the individual service specifications apply.
An example of the behaviour that could occur in this case is:
\- the LMU or network sends a Facility information element containing a return
error component in a FACILITY or RELEASE COMPLETE message. If the FACILITY
message is used then the MM Connection may continue to be used for further
signalling.
### 4.2.4 Multiple location service invocations
It is possible for several LCS transactions to be used simultaneously. LCS
transactions can also exist in parallel with other CM‑Layer and MM
transactions. The handling of multiple MM connections is defined in 3GPP TS
24.007 and 3GPP TS 24.008.
A single Facility Information Element shall not contain more than one
component.
### 4.2.5 Recovery procedures
In case a transaction is not terminated according to the normal procedure as
described in the present document the network side has to ensure that the
transaction is terminated e.g. by a supervision timer.
### 4.2.6 Generic protocol error handling for the component part of location
services operations
If a location service operation is to be rejected the operation will be
denied, and provided the transaction is still in progress, an appropriate
reject component will be returned in a Facility Information Element.
#### 4.2.6.1 Single component errors
The reject component shall be sent in a RELEASE COMPLETE message.
If the component containing the error was itself sent in a RELEASE COMPLETE
message then the contents of the component shall be ignored, and no reject
component is sent.
#### 4.2.6.2 Multiple component errors
If a single Facility IE contains more than one component then a RELEASE
COMPLETE message with the cause \"Facility rejected\" and without any
component shall be sent.
# 5 Location service support procedures
## 5.1 General
This clause describes the location service support procedures at the radio
interface. These procedures are provided by the location service support
entity defined in 3GPP TS 24.007. The location service support procedures
provide the means to transfer messages for the location service procedures.
These procedures are regarded as the user of the location service support.
## 5.2 Location service support establishment
At the beginning of each location service procedure a location service support
must be established.
### 5.2.1 Location service support establishment at the originating side
If the entity that uses the location support procedures needs to send a
REGISTER message, the location service support entity shall first request the
establishment of an MM‑connection. This MM‑connection is established according
to 3GPP TS 24.008 and 3GPP TS 24.007. If the network is the initiating side
then MM‑connection establishment may involve paging the LMU.
The location service support entity shall send the REGISTER message as the
first CM‑message on the MM‑connection. The REGISTER message is sent to the
corresponding peer entity on the MM‑connection and the location service
support shall be regarded as being established.
### 5.2.2 Location service support establishment at the terminating side
At the terminating side a location service support is regarded as being
established when an MM‑connection is established. According 3GPP TS 24.008
this can be ascertained by the receipt of the first message, with a new
transaction identifier. For successful establishment of location service
support this message shall be a REGISTER message.
If the terminating side needs to reject the establishment of location services
support then it may be immediately initiate location services support release
(see subclause 5.4).
## 5.3 Location service support information transfer phase
After the establishment of the location service support both users may
exchange FACILITY messages by use of the location service support.
## 5.4 Location service support release
At the end of each location service procedure the established location service
support is released, if a permanent connection is not used.
The side closing the transaction shall release the transaction by sending the
RELEASE COMPLETE message to its corresponding peer entity.
Both location service support entities release the MM‑connection locally.
## 5.5 Recovery procedures
The location service support does not provide recovery procedures, i.e. the
operations are transparent to the location service support.
## 5.6 Message flow (single operation example)
This subclause contains examples of message flows for a single transaction
consisting of a single operation. These examples may not show all
possibilities.
### 5.6.1 LMU initiated location service transaction
LMU Network
REGISTER
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
Facility (Invoke = Operation (Location service code, Parameter(s)))
RELEASE COMPLETE or FACILITY
\
NOTE: To prevent transactions being kept open following exceptional cases,
either side of the transaction may release it by sending a RELEASE COMPETE
message without a Facility IE.
Figure 5.6.1: LMU initiated location service transaction
### 5.6.2 Network initiated location service transaction
LMU Network
REGISTER
\
Facility (Return result = Operation (Parameter(s))
RELEASE COMPLETE or FACILITY (note 1)
\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - \- -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - ->
Facility (Return error (Error))
RELEASE COMPLETE (note 1)
\- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - \- -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - ->
Facility (Reject (Invoke_problem))
RELEASE COMPLETE (note 1, note 2)
\- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - \- - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - ->
RELEASE COMPLETE (note 2)
\ LMU ReturnResult (empty) . X
ReportRIT LMU -> SMLC No X
StopRIT SMLC -> LMU ReturnResult (empty). X
IndicateRITError LMU -> SMLC No X
StatusQuery SMLC -> LMU ReturnResult X
StatusUpdate LMU -> SMLC ReturnResult\ X (empty)
ResetRequest SMLC -> LMU ReturnResult (empty). X
OMMngrRequest SMLC -> LMU ReturnResult X
OMAgntRequest LMU -> SMLC ReturnResult X
* * *
The present document defines the following operations:
\- StartRIT.
\- ReportRIT.
\- StopRIT.
\- IndicateRITError.
\- StatusQuery.
\- StatusUpdate.
\- ResetRequest.
\- OMMngrRequest.
\- OMAgntRequest.
\-- LLP-Operations module defines the operations transparent to MSC
LLP-Operations
\-- { LLP-Operations object identifier }
DEFINITIONS ::=
BEGIN
IMPORTS
OPERATION
FROM TCAPMessages {
ITU-T recommendation q 773 modules (2) messages (1) version2 (2)}
SystemFailure,
DataMissing,
UnexpectedDataValue,
FacilityNotSupported,
UnknownSubscriber,
FROM MAP-Errors {
ITU-T identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
gsm-Network (1) modules (3) map-Errors (10) version4 (4)}
UnDefinedError
FROM LLP-Errors
\-- {}
StartRITReq,
StartRITRsp,
ReportRITArg,
StopRITReq,
StopRITRsp,
ErrorRITArg,
PerformTOAReq,
TOAResultRsp,
StatusReq,
StatusRsp,
ResetReq,
ResetRsp,
StatusUpdateReq,
StatusUpdateRsp
FROM LLP-DataTypes {
ITU-T identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
gsm-Network (1) modules (3) map-LCS-DataTypes (n) version4 (4)}
OMMngrReq,
OMMngrRsp,
OMAgntReq,
OMAgntRsp,
NACKCauses
FROM LLP-OM-Protocol --{ LLP-OM-Protocol Object identifier }--
;
\-- OPERATION definitions based on macro notation
StartRIT::= OPERATION -- identifier StartRIT-Measurement
ARGUMENT
startRITReq StartRITReq
RESULT
startRITRsp StartRITRsp
ERROR {
SystemFailure,
DataMissing,
UnexpectedDataValue,
ResourcesNotAvailable,
UnDefinedError
}
ReportRIT::= OPERATION -- identifier ReportRIT-Measurement
ARGUMENT
reportRITArg ReportRITArg
StopRIT::= OPERATION -- identifier StopRIT-Measurement
ARGUMENT
stopRITReq StopRITReq
RESULT
StopRITRsp StopRITRsp
IndicateRITError ::= OPERATION
ARGUMENT
errorRITArg ErrorRITArg
PerformTOA::= OPERATION -- identifier PerformTOA-Measurment
ARGUMENT
performTOAReq PerformTOAReq
RESULT
toaResultRsp TOAResultRsp
ERROR {
SystemFailure,
DataMissing,
UnexpectedDataValue,
ResourcesNotAvailable,
UnDefinedError
}
StatusQuery::= OPERATION
ARGUMENT
statusReq StatusReq
RESULT
statusRsp StatusRsp
ERROR {
}
ResetRequest::= OPERATION
ARGUMENT
resetReq ResetReq
RESULT
resetRsp ResetRsp
ERROR {
SystemFailure,
UnDefinedError
}
OMMngrRequest ::= OPERATION -- defined in LLP-OM, 52.071
ARGURMENT
oMMngrReq OMMngrReq
RESULT
oMMngrRsp OMMngrRsp
ERROR
{
NACKCauses
}
OMAgntRequest ::= OPERATION -- defined in LLP-OM, 52.071
ARGURMENT
oMAgntReq OMAgntReq
RESULT
oMAgntRsp OMAgntRsp
ERROR
{
NACKCauses
}
StatusUpdate ::= OPERATION -- identifier Status Update
ARGUMENT
statusUpdateReq StatusUpdateReq
RESULT
statusUpdateRsp StatusUpdateRsp
ERROR {
SystemFailure,
DataMissing,
UnexpectedDataValue,
ResourceNotAvailable,
UnDefinedError
}
END
### 9.2.1 Operation types description
For each operation type this subclause provides a brief prose description.
#### 9.2.1.1 StartRIT (network --> LMU)
This operation type is invoked by the network to request RIT measurement
information from an LMU.
#### 9.2.1.2 ReportRIT (LMU -->network)
This operation type is invoked by an LMU to report to the network RIT
measurement information. This operation is used to report periodical
measurements.
#### 9.2.1.3 StopRIT (network --> LMU)
This operation type is invoked by the network to request an LMU to stop on-
going RIT measurements and reporting.
#### 9.2.1.4 IndicateRITError (LMU --> network)
This operation type is invoked by an LMU to indicate error situations.
#### 9.2.1.5 (void)
#### 9.2.1.6 StatusQuery (network --> LMU)
This operation type is invoked by the network to request status an LMU The
status is returned using the return result component of the operation.
#### 9.2.1.7 StatusUpdate (LMU --> network)
This operation type is invoked by an LMU to report status of LMU, e.g. after
reset or periodically.
#### 9.2.1.8 ResetRequest (network --> LMU)
This operation type is invoked by the network to reset an LMU.
#### 9.2.1.9 OMMngrRequest (network --> LMU)
This operation type is invoked by the network to request a specific O&M
activity to LMU as defined in 3GPP TS 52.071.
#### 9.2.1.10 OMAgntRequest (LMU --> network)
This operation type is invoked by the LMU to report an O&M event to Network or
asking for reporting O&M information from Network as defined in 3GPP TS
52.071.
## 10.3 Error types
### 10.3.1 Error types ASN.1 specification
The following ASN.1 module provides an ASN.1 specification of errors. Errors
from MAP are imported in the LCS‑Protocol module in subclause 9.2. In this
ASN.1 module, ASN.1/88 defined in ITU-T Recommendation X.680 recommendations
(ASN.1 1997) is used.
LLP-Errors
\-- { LLP-Errors object identifier }
DEFINITIONS ::=
BEGIN
IMPORTS
ERROR FROM
TCAPMessages FROM {
ITU-T recommendation q 773 modules (2) messages (1) version2 (2) }
;
\-- The MAP errors
\-- error types definition
UnDefinedError ::=ERROR
END
### 10.3.2 Error types description
For each error type this subclause provides a brief prose description.
#### 10.3.2.1 (void)
#### 10.3.2.2 (void)
#### 10.3.2.3 (void)
#### 10.3.2.4 SystemFailure
This error is returned by the LMU or the network, when it cannot perform an
operation because of a failure.
#### 10.3.2.5 DataMissing
This error is returned by the network or the LMU when an optional parameter is
missing in an invoke component or an inner data structure, while it is
required by the context of the request.
#### 10.3.2.6 UnexpectedDataValue
This error is returned by the network or the LMU when it receives a parameter
with an unexpected value, without type violation.
#### 10.3.2.7 ResourcesNotAvailable
This error is returned by the network or the LMU if temporarily there are no
resources.
#### 10.3.2.9 UnDefinedError
This error is returned by the LMU or the network when any other error type is
not applicable.
## 10.4 Operations and errors implementation
For the actual implementation of location services, operations and errors have
to be defined by value. The following ASN.1 module, imports operation types
from the ASN.1 module described in subclause 9.2 and operation and error types
from MAP. It defines operations by allocating operations and errors a local
value. For the involved operations and errors the same local values as in MAP
are allocated. In this ASN.1 module, ASN.1/88 defined in ITU-T Recommendation
X.680 (ASN.1 1997) is used.
LLP-Protocol
\-- { LLP-Protocol object identifier }
DEFINITIONS ::=
BEGIN
IMPORTS
SystemFailure,
DataMissing,
UnexpectedDataValue,
FacilityNotSupported,
UnknownSubscriber,
FROM MAP-Errors {
ccitt identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
gsm-Network (1) modules (3) map-Errors (10) version4 (4)}
UnDefinedError
FROM LLP-Errors
\-- { LLP-Errors object identifier }
StartRIT,
ReportRIT,
StopRIT,
IndicateRITError,
PerformTOA,
StatusQuery,
ResetRequest,
OMRequest,
OMReport,
StatusUpdate
FROM -LLP-Operations
\-- { LLP-Operations object identifier }
\-- allocate local values for errors
systemFailure SystemFailure ::= localValue 10
dataMissing DataMissing ::= localValue 11
unexpectedDataValue UnexpectedDataValue ::= localValue 12
facilityNotSupported FacilityNotSupported ::= localValue 13
unknownSubscriber UnknownSubscriber ::= localValue 14
unDefinedError UnDefinedError ::= localValue 50
startRIT StartRIT ::= localValue 10
reportRIT ReportRIT ::= localValue 11
stopRIT StopRIT ::= localValue 12
indicateRITError IndicateRITError ::= localValue 13
performTOA PerformTOA ::= localValue 20
statusQuery statusQuery ::= localValue 30
resetRequest ResetRequest ::= localValue 31
omMngrRequest OMMngrRequest ::= LocalValue 32
omAgntRequest OMAgntRequest ::= LocalValue 33
StatusUpdate StatusUpdate ::= LocalValue 34
END
# 11 LMU LCS Protocol (LLP) messages
## 11.1 Messages, data types and identifiers
### 11.1.1 General
This clause defines the External Signal Info IE, that contains Signal Info
string. Signal Info string contains the MLC‑LMU messages defined by ASN.1 and
coded by PER (ITU-T Recommendation X.691). In this ASN.1 module, ASN.1/94
defined in ITU-T Recommendation X.680 (ASN.1 1997) is used.
### 11.1.2 ASN.1 data types
LLP-DataTypes
\-- { LLP-DataTypes object identifier }
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
IMPORTS
ExtensionContainer
FROM MAP-ExtensionDataTypes {
ccitt identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
gsm-Network (1) modules (3) map-ExtensionDataTypes (21) version4 (4)}
;
StartRITReq ::= SEQUENCE {
rit-MeasurementType RIT-MeasurementType,
rit-ReportingType RIT-ReportingType,
rit-Environment RIT-Environment,
rit-NeigborNumber RIT-NeighborNumber,
rit-NeighborType RIT-NeighborType,
rit-CIMethod CIMethod,
rit-BTSInfo RIT-BTSInfo OPTIONAL,
extensionContainer ExtensionContainer OPTIONAL,
...
}
StartRITRsp ::= SEQUENCE {
extensionContainer ExtensionContainer OPTIONAL,
...
}
StopRITReq ::= SEQUENCE {
extensionContainer ExtensionContainer OPTIONAL,
...
}
StopRITRsp ::= SEQUENCE {
extensionContainer ExtensionContainer OPTIONAL,
...
}
ReportRITArg ::= SEQUENCE {
rit-ReferenceIDInfo RIT-ReferenceIDInfo,
rit-ResponseInfo SeqOfRIT-ResponseInfo,
extensionContainer ExtensionContainer OPTIONAL,
...
}
StatusReq ::= SEQUENCE {
extensionContainer ExtensionContainer OPTIONAL,
...
}
StatusRsp ::= SEQUENCE {
statusTime StatusTime,
rit-Status RIT-Status,
toa-Status TOA-Status,
omStatus OMStatus,
extensionContainer ExtensionContainer OPTIONAL,
...
}
ErrorRITArg ::= SEQUENCE {
rit-ErrorType RIT-ErrorType,
rit-ErrorReason RIT-ErrorReason,
extensionContainer ExtensionContainer OPTIONAL,
...
}
PerformTOA ::= SEQUENCE {
toa-MeasurementDeviceInfo TOA-MeasurementDeviceInfo,
toa-ChannelDescr TOA-ChannelDescr,
toa-SignalDescr TOA-SignalDescr,
toa-TimingDescr TOA-TimingDescr,
toa-MeasurementOpt TOA-MeasurementOpt OPTIONAL,
extensionContainer ExtensionContainer OPTIONAL,
...
}
TOAResultRsp ::= SEQUENCE {
toa-TimingReferenceInfo TOA-TimingReferenceInfo,
toa-Measurements TOA-MeasurementInfo,
extensionContainer ExtensionContainer OPTIONAL,
...
}
StatusUpdateReq ::= SEQUENCE {
statusReason StatusReason,
statusTime StatusTime,
ritStatus RIT-Status,
toaStatus TOA-Status,
omStatus OMStatus,
extensionContainer ExtensionContainer OPTIONAL,
...
}
StatusUpdateRsp ::= SEQUENCE {
extensionContainer ExtensionContainer OPTIONAL,
...
}
ResetReq ::= SEQUENCE {
extensionContainer ExtensionContainer OPTIONAL,
...
}
ResetRsp ::= SEQUENCE {
extensionContainer ExtensionContainer OPTIONAL,
...
}
\-- DATA TYPES DEFINITION
\-- RIT measurement Type information
RIT-MeasurementType ::= INTEGER {
atdMeasure (0),
atdOrOtdMeasure (1),
rtdMeasure (2)
} (0..7)
\-- RIT Reporting Type information
RIT-ReportingType ::= SEQUENCE {
rit-ReportingPeriodInfo RIT-ReportingPeriodInfo OPTIONAL,
rit-ChangeLimit INTEGER (1..255) OPTIONAL,
rit-DeviationLimit INTEGER (1..255) OPTIONAL,
rit-MonitorPeriod INTEGER (1..64) OPTIONAL
}
RIT-ReportingPeriodInfo ::= SEQUENCE {
rit-ReportingPeriodFormat ENUMERATED {
tensOfSeconds (0),
tensOfMinutes (1) },
rit-ReportingPeriod INTEGER (1..120)
}
\-- RIT Environment Information
RIT-Environment ::= INTEGER {
heavyMultiPathAndNLOS (0),
\-- bad urban or urban heavy multipath and NLOS conditions
lightMultiPathAndLOS (1),
\-- suburban or rural ligth multipath and LOS conditions
mixedEnvironement (2)
\-- not defined or mixed environment
} (0..7)
RIT-NeighborNumber ::= INTEGER (0..15)
RIT-NeighborType ::= INTEGER {
listedNeighbors (0),
listedAndSystemInfo2or5 (1),
systemInfoType2or5 (2),
allNeighbors (3)
} (0..7)
CIMethod ::= INTEGER {
notCi (0), -- report ci and carrier instead of CI
ci (1) -- report CI if possible
} (0..3)
\-- element contains information of base stations
\-- to be measured
RIT-BTSInfo ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..31)) OF RIT-BTSList -- list of btss
RIT-BTSList ::= SEQUENCE {
rit-ListCi CI,
rit-TimeSlotScheme TimeSlotScheme,
rit-ListBSIC BSIC,
rit-ListBCCHCarrier BCCHCarrier
}
CI ::= INTEGER (0..65535)
TimeSlotScheme ::= INTEGER {
schemeUnknown (0),
equalLength (1), -- time slots are equal length
variousLength (2) -- the first time slot is 157b } (0..7)
BSIC ::= INTEGER (0..63)
BCCHCarrier ::= INTEGER (0..1023)
RIT-ReferenceIDInfo ::= SEQUENCE {
rit-ReferenceLAC LAC, -- defined earlier
rit-ReferenceCI CI, -- defined earlier
rit-ReferenceFrameNbr FrameNumber, -- defined earlier
\-- If rit-ATReference is absent then there is not RIT AT refernce value.
rit-ATReference RIT-ATReference OPTIONAL,
rit-ReferenceTimeSlot TimeSlot, -- defined earlier
rit-ReferenceRXLevel RXLevel, -- defined earlier
rit-ATDRTDQualityRes INTEGER (0..3), -- defines the resolution for ATDRTD
values
rit-ATDRTDChangeQualityRes INTEGER (0..3) -- defines the resolution for ATDRTD
change values
}
RIT-ATReference ::= SEQUENCE {
rit-CommonClock CommonClock,
rit-ReferenceATValue ReferenceATValue,
\-- This Quality information defines the quality of AT value
\-- Resolution defines the resolution of Quality field as follows,
\-- 0= 0.005 us, 1= 0.01 us, 2= 0.05 us
rit-RefATQuality SEQUENCE {
resolution INTEGER (0..3),
atQuality INTEGER (0..63) },
rit-ReferenceATChange INTEGER (-1000 .. 1000),
\-- This Quality information defines the quality of ATChange value
\-- Resolution defines the resolution of Quality field as follows,
\-- 0= 0.00005 ppm, 1= 0.0001 ppm, 2= 0.0005
rit-RefATChangeQuality SEQUENCE {
resolution INTEGER (0..3),
atChangeQuality INTEGER (0..63) }
}
\-- Editor\'s note: ReferenceATValue was divided in two parts because 15 999
999 999 requires 34 bits.
\-- In order to handle 34-bits values, LMU should support 64-bits calculation,
which can cause problems.
\-- This solution can be handled with 32-bits and in addition it gives better
resolution.
ReferenceATValue ::= SEQUENCE {
seconds INTEGER (0..59),
nsecods INTEGER (0..999999999)
}
SeqOfRIT-ResponseInfo ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..15)) OF RIT-ResponseInfo
\-- Measured RTD values from one neighbor
RIT-ResponseInfo ::= SEQUENCE {
rit-NeighborCellIDInfo RIT-CellIDInfo,
rit-NeighborTimeSlot TimeSlot,
rit-NeighborRxLevel RXLevel,
rit-NeighborFrameNumber FrameNumber OPTIONAL,
rit-NeighborATDRTD INTEGER (0..923200),
rit-NeighborATDRTDQuality INTEGER (0..63),
rit-NeighborATDRTDChange INTEGER (-2000..2000),
rit-NeighborATDRTDChangeQuality INTEGER (0..63)
}
RIT-CellIDInfo ::= CHOICE {
rit-NeighborCI CI,
rit-NeighborBTS RIT-NeighborBTS
}
RIT-NeighborBTS ::= SEQUENCE {
rit-NeighborBSIC BSIC,
rit-NeighborBCCHCarrier BCCHCarrier
}
FrameNumber ::= INTEGER (0..2715647)
LAC ::= INTEGER (0..65535)
CommonClock ::= INTEGER {
gpsClock (0),
glonass (1),
galileoClock (2),
qzssClock (3),
bdsClock (4)
} (0..7)
TimeSlot ::= INTEGER (0..7)
RXLevel ::= INTEGER (0..63) -- range -150 to -24 with 2dBm steps
\-- STATUS ELEMENTS
StatusReason ::= ENUMERATED {
powerUp (0), -- no knowledge about previous states
unsucSWReset (1), -- unsuccessful recovery
sucSWReset (2), -- successful recovery
unknownError (3), -- unknown selfdiagnosis error
unrelTBError (4), -- unreliable timebase error
periodicReport (5), -- periodic status report
...
}
StatusTime ::= SEQUENCE {
referenceLAC LAC, -- defined earlier
referenceCI CI, -- defined earlier
referenceFrameNumber FrameNumber -- defined earlier
}
RIT-Status ::= INTEGER (0..63) -- defines the number of RIT-Jobs
TOA-Status ::= INTEGER (0..63) -- defines the number of TOA-Jobs
OMStatus ::= INTEGER (0..63) -- defines the number of OM-Jobs
\-- ERROR RIT ELEMENTS
RIT-ErrorType ::= INTEGER {
permament (0),
temporary (1)
} (0..3)
RIT-ErrorReason ::= INTEGER {
noNeighbors (0),
noReferenceClock (1),
notSupportedType (2),
undefinedError (3)
} (0..15)
\-- TOA DEFINITIONS
\-- MEASUREMENTDEVICE INFORMATION
TOA-MeasurementDeviceInfo ::= SEQUENCE
(SIZE(1..6)) OF TOA-LMUMeasurementDevice -- list of measurement devices
TOA-LMUMeasurementDevice ::= INTEGER (0..5)
\-- CHANNEL DESCRIPTION
TOA-ChannelDescr ::= SEQUENCE {
toa-FrequencyListType TOA-FrequencyListType,
toa-hopping TOA-Hopping OPTIONAL,
toa-channelType TOA-ChannelType,
toa-numberOfBursts TOA-NumberOfBurst
}
TOA-FrequencyListType ::= CHOICE {
frequencyListOnly FrequencyListOnly,
frequencyListAndIndex FrequencyListAndIndex,
frequencyIndexOnly FrequencyIndexOnly
}
FrequencyListOnly ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..64)) OF TOA-ARFCNumber -- list of
channels
FrequencyListAndIndex ::= SEQUENCE {
toa-arfcnList TOA-ARFCList,
\-- list of channels
frequencyIndex FrequencyIndex
}
TOA-ARFCList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..64)) OF TOA-ARFCNumber
FrequencyIndexOnly ::= SEQUENCE {
frequencyIndex FrequencyIndex
}
FrequencyIndex ::= INTEGER (0..31)
TOA-ARFCNumber ::= BCCHCarrier -- defined earlier
TOA-Hopping ::= SEQUENCE {
toa-maio MAIO,
toa-hsn HSN,
toa-MsframeNumber ModuloFrameNumber
}
MAIO ::= INTEGER (0..63) -- Mobile Allocation Index Offset
HSN ::= INTEGER (0..63) -- Hopping Sequence Number
ModuloFrameNumber ::= INTEGER (0..84863)
TOA-ChannelType ::= INTEGER {
tchf(0),
tchhscn0 (1),
tchhscn1 (2)
} (0..7)
TOA-NumberOfBurst ::= INTEGER (0..7)
\-- SIGNAL DESCRIPTION
TOA-SignalDescr ::= SEQUENCE {
toa-BurstType TOA-BurstType
}
TOA-BurstType ::= CHOICE {
toa-AccessBurst TOA-AccessBurst, -- access burst
toa-TSC TSC -- normal burst
}
TOA-AccessBurst ::= SEQUENCE {
toa-HOReference HOReference,
toa-BSIC BSIC -- defined earlier
}
HOReference ::= INTEGER (0..255)
TSC ::= INTEGER (0..7)
\-- TIMING DESCRIPTION
TOA-TimingDescr ::= SEQUENCE {
toa-TimeReference TOA-TimeReference,
toa-timeUncertainty TimeUncertainty
}
TOA-TimeReference ::= CHOICE {
toa-gpsTime TOA-GPSTime,
toa-gsmStartTime TOA-GSMStartTime
}
TOA-GPSTime ::= SEQUENCE {
toa-GPSStartTime GPSStartTime,
toa-GPSSV GPSSV
}
GPSStartTime ::= INTEGER (0..14999999) -- unit is microseconds
GPSSV ::= INTEGER (0..31)
TOA-GSMStartTime ::= SEQUENCE {
toa-arfcn BCCHCarrier, -- defined earlier
toa-bsic BSIC, -- defined earlier
toa-GSMStartTime GSMTime
}
GSMTime ::= SEQUENCE {
toa-GSMTimeframeNumber GSMTimeFrameNumber,
toa-timeSlot TimeSlot,
toa-bitNumber BitNumber
}
GSMTimeFrameNumber ::= INTEGER (0..42323)
BitNumber ::= INTEGER (0..156)
TimeUncertainty ::= INTEGER (0..15)
\-- MEASUREMENT OPTIONS
TOA-MeasurementOpt ::= SEQUENCE {
toa-LMUMethod TOA-Method,
toa-Environment TOA-Environment,
toa-MeasurementType TOA-MeasurementType
}
TOA-Method ::= INTEGER (0..7)
TOA-Environment ::= INTEGER {
heavyMpathAndNLOS (0),
lightMpathAndLOS (1),
mixed (2)
} (0..7)
TOA-MeasurementType ::= INTEGER {
reportTOA-only (0),
reportAOA-only (1),
reportTOAandAOA (2)
} (0..3)
\-- TIMING INFO
TOA-TimingReferenceInfo ::= CHOICE {
toa-GPSTimeInfo NULL,
toa-GSMTimeInfo TOA-GSMTimeInfo
}
TOA-GSMTimeInfo ::= SEQUENCE {
toa-bcch BCCHCarrier, -- defined earlier
toa-bsic BSIC -- defined earlier
}
\-- THE ACTUAL TOA MEASUREMENTS
TOA-MeasurementInfo ::= SEQUENCE(SIZE(1..6)) OF TOA-Measurements
\-- list of measurementDevices
TOA-Measurements ::= SEQUENCE {
toa-MeasurementDeviceID MeasurementDeviceID,
toa-AddMeasurementInfo TOA-AddMeasurementInfo,
toa-measuredPeakList TOA-MeasuredPeakList
}
\-- MEASUREMENT DEVICE ID IE
MeasurementDeviceID ::= INTEGER (0..5)
\-- MEASUREMENT INFO IE IN RESULT MESSAGE
TOA-AddMeasurementInfo ::= SEQUENCE {
toa-Method TOA-Method, -- defined earlier
toa-Diversity TOA-Diversity,
toa-NumberOfBurst TOA-NumberOfBurst, -- defined earlier
toa-AOA TOA-AOA OPTIONAL,
toa-AOAUncertainty TOA-AOAUncertainty OPTIONAL
}
TOA-Diversity ::= INTEGER {
noDiversity (0),
diversity (1)
} (0..3)
TOA-AOA ::= INTEGER (0..3599)
TOA-AOAUncertainty ::= INTEGER (0..31)
\-- PEAKS LIST OF MEASURED TOAs
TOA-MeasuredPeakList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(0..4)) OF TOA-MeasuredPeaks
\-- list of peaks
\-- MEASURED TOA IE
TOA-MeasuredPeaks ::= SEQUENCE {
toa-MeasuredTOA MeasuredTOA,
toa-QualityInfo TOA-QualityInfo
}
MeasuredTOA ::= INTEGER (-131072..131071)
\-- the absolute TOA value
TOA-QualityInfo ::= SEQUENCE {
toa-Uncertainty TOA-Uncertainty OPTIONAL,
snrEstimate SNREstimate OPTIONAL,
toaSignalStrength TOASignalStrength OPTIONAL
}
TOA-Uncertainty ::= INTEGER (0..63)
\-- the uncertainty of the TOA estimate
SNREstimate ::= INTEGER (-30..33)
\-- the estimated value for Signal Noise Radio
TOASignalStrength ::= INTEGER (0..63)
\-- range -150 to -24 with 2dBm steps
END
\-- The definition below will be imported from MAP specification.
\--
\--
\-- MAP-ExtensionDataTypes {
\-- ccitt identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
\-- gsm-Network (1) modules (3) map-ExtensionDataTypes (21) version4 (4)}
\--
\-- DEFINITIONS
\--
\-- IMPLICIT TAGS
\--
\-- ::=
\--
\-- BEGIN
\--
\-- EXPORTS
\--
\-- PrivateExtension,
\-- ExtensionContainer;
\--
\--
\--
\-- MAP-EXTENSION ::= CLASS {
\-- &ExtensionType OPTIONAL,
\-- &extensionId OBJECT IDENTIFIER }
\-- -- The length of the Object Identifier shall not exceed 16 octets and the
\-- -- number of components of the Object Identifier shall not exceed 16
\--
\--
\--
\-- data types
\--
\-- ExtensionContainer ::= SEQUENCE {
\-- privateExtensionList [0]PrivateExtensionList OPTIONAL,
\-- pcs-Extensions [1]PCS-Extensions OPTIONAL,
\-- ...}
\--
\-- PrivateExtensionList ::= SEQUENCE SIZE (1..maxNumOfPrivateExtensions) OF
\-- PrivateExtension
\--
\-- PrivateExtension ::= SEQUENCE {
\-- extId MAP-EXTENSION.&extensionId
\-- ({ExtensionSet}),
\--
\-- extType MAP-EXTENSION.&ExtensionType
\-- ({ExtensionSet}{\@extId}) OPTIONAL}
\--
\-- maxNumOfPrivateExtensions INTEGER ::= 10
\--
\-- ExtensionSet MAP-EXTENSION ::=
\-- {...
\-- -- ExtensionSet is the set of all defined private extensions
\-- }
\--
\-- Unsupported private extensions shall be discarded if received.
\--
\--
\-- PCS-Extensions ::= SEQUENCE {
\-- ...}
\--
\-- END
### 11.1.3 Identifiers definition
In the informative annexes the contents of the identifiers used in operation
and error types description are further discussed.
###### ## Annex A (informative): RIT messages
## A.1 Introduction
This annex describes the contents of Radio Interface Timing (RIT) related
messages.
## A.2 Messages
The messages below are considered to be transported between the SMLC and the
LMU.
### A.2.1 RIT Measurement Request Message
The RIT Measurement Request is a message from the SMLC to the LMU. As a
response to it the LMU performs Real Time Difference (RTD) or Absolute Time
Difference (ATD) measurements. It contains the following information elements.
Table A.2.1: RIT Measurement Request message content
* * *
Information element Type/Reference Presence Message Type Message Type
A.2.1.1.1 M Measurement Instructions Measurement Instructions A.2.1.1.2 M BTS
List BTS List A.2.1.1.3 C
* * *
#### A.2.1.1 RIT Measurement Request Message Information Elements
##### A.2.1.1.1 Message Type IE
This IE contains the type of the message. This IE is mandatory.
##### A.2.1.1.2 Measurement Instructions IE
The purpose of the Measurement Instructions IE is to inform the LMU about the
measurement type (RTD/ATD), measurement result reporting rate, and tell which
BTSs should be measured. This IE is mandatory, and it contains the following
fields:
##### Measurement Type {#measurement-type .H6}
> This field indicates whether AT of reference BTS is required.
\'0\': AT of reference BTS should be reported. If AT of reference BTS can not
be measured, no ATD/RTD measurements are reported, but RIT Error IE is sent
instead.
\'1\': AT of reference BTS should be reported . If AT of reference BTS can not
be measured, ATD/RTD measurements are reported anyhow.
\'2\': ATD/RTD measurements timestamped with frame number of the reference BTS
should be performed.
##### Reporting Period Format {#reporting-period-format .H6}
> This field describes the units of the Reporting Period field. This field is
> optional. If this field is included, RIT Measurement Responses shall be send
> with the period indicated in this and Reporting Period fields.
\'0\': Reporting Period is told in tens of seconds.
\'1\': Reporting Period is in tens of minutes.
##### Reporting Period {#reporting-period .H6}
> This field describes the value for the reporting period, i.e. the required
> time period between the RIT Measurement Response messages. Its units and
> multiplication factor are defined in the Reporting Period Format field. This
> field is conditional and included only if the Reporting Period Format is
> included.
Range: 1-120.
##### Change Limit {#change-limit .H6}
> This field indicates the limit for the change of AT or ATD /RTD values in
> units of 0.02 micro-seconds. If any AT or ATD/RTD value has changed more
> than the value in this field since the last RIT Measurement Response, a new
> RIT Measurement Response message is sent. This field is optional. If this
> field is included, RIT Measurement Responses shall be send when some RIT
> value has changed more than this limit.
Range: 1-255.
##### Deviation Limit {#deviation-limit .H6}
> This field indicates the limit for the deviation of the AT or ATD/RTD
> values. If any time the predicted AT or ATD/RTD value (based on reported AT
> or ATD/RTD values and changes in the last RIT Measurement Response) has
> deviated more than the value in this field compared to the current
> measurement result, a new RIT Measurement Response message is sent. This
> field is optional. If this field is included, RIT Measurement Responses
> shall be send when the first deviation of some RIT value is more than this
> limit. The values are in units of 0.02 micro-seconds.
Range: 1-255.
NOTE: Predicted AT or ATD/RTD value means the value that is calculated
(extrapolated) based on AT or ATD/RTD value and AT or ATD/RTD Change value in
last RIT Measurement Response message.
##### Monitor Period {#monitor-period .H6}
> This field indicates the requested time period for monitoring the time
> derivative of AT or ATD/RTD values, i.e. on how long monitor period the
> reported AT or ATD/RTD change is based. The value is in tens of seconds.
> This field is optional.
Range: 1- 64.
##### Environment Characterization {#environment-characterization .H6}
> Environment Characterization field gives a LMU information about expected
> multipath and NLOS in the area.
\'0\': possibly heavy multipath and NLOS conditions (e.g. bad urban or urban).
\'1\': no or light multipath and usually LOS conditions (e.g. suburban or
rural).
\'2\': not defined or mixed environment.
\'3\': reserved.
\'4\': reserved (i.e. several values should be reserved).
##### Neighbor Number {#neighbor-number .H6}
> This field indicates the maximum number of neighbor BTSs that the LMU should
> try to report.
Range: 0-15.
##### Neighbor Type {#neighbor-type .H6}
> This field indicates which neighbor BTSs are used for RIT measurements. If
> the value of the Neighbor Number field is lower than the total number of
> BTSs in the required list, then the BTS are selected in the order of the
> list.
\'0\': Neighbor BTSs listed in the BTS List IE are used for RIT measurements
in the order of the list.
\'1\': If possible, neighbor BTSs listed in the BTS List IE are used,
otherwise neighbors received in SYSTEM INFORMATION 2 or 5 message are used in
the order of received signal strength.
\'2\': Neighbor BTSs indicated in SYSTEM INFORMATION TYPE 2 or 5 are used for
RIT measurements (i.e. this is normal operation) in the order of received
signal strength.
\'3\': All neighbor BTSs that can be received (i.e. reported BTSs are not
limited to BTSs listed in SYSTEM INFORMATION TYPE 2 or 5 or BTS List IE).
Support of this option in LMU is optional.
##### CellIdMethod {#cellidmethod .H6}
> CellIdMethod field indicates whether CI or BSIC and BCCH carrier is used to
> identify neighbor BTSs in RIT Measurement Responses.
\'0\' = BSIC and BCCH carrier are used to identify the cell, even if CI is
available.
\'1\' = CI is used to identify the neighbor cell, if it is available,
otherwise BSIC and BCCH carrier are used.
##### A.2.1.1.3 BTS List IE
This information element indicates neighbor BTSs that are used for RIT
measurements. This IE is conditional. If Neighbor Type field in the
Measurement Instructions IE is \'0\' or \'1\' this field must be included. The
first BTS on the list is the reference BTS that should be used as reference
when reporting the RTD or AT values. If this reference BTS is not available,
the LMU can select the used reference BTS based on signal strength.
This IE contains the following fields.
##### Number of BTSs {#number-of-btss .H6}
> This field indicates, how many BTSs are included in this IE.
Range: 1 to 31.
> The following fields are repeated the number of times included in Number of
> BTSs field.
##### CI {#ci .H6}
> This field indicates the Cell Identity of the particular BTS. The purpose of
> the Cell Identity value is to identify a BTS within a location area.
Range: 0 - 65535.
NOTE: Here is assumed that when LMU starts to make measurements, it firsts
goes to the requested frequencies, and starts to decode BSICs and CIs from
those specific frequencies. Because of this procedure the risk that there
would be two BTSs with same CIs and same Channel numbers is minimal (i.e.
there is no need to transmit LAC).
##### Time Slot Scheme {#time-slot-scheme .H6}
> The Time Slot Scheme field indicates what kind of transmission scheme the
> particular BTS is using. If the LMU measures signals from BTSs from other
> time slots than 0 or 4, and it is informed about the burst length schemes
> used by BTSs, then it can compensate for the possible error. (This is
> necessary if the LMU averages bursts from different time slots, and the BTS
> uses varying lengths of bursts.)
\'0\' = the burst scheme is unknown (The time slot should remain the same).
\'1\' = all time slots are 156.25 bits long.
\'2\' = time slots 0 and 4 are 157 bits long and other time slots are 156 bits
long.
##### BSIC {#bsic .H6}
> This field indicates the BSIC (Base Station Identity Code) of the particular
> BTS.
Range: 0 - 63.
##### BCCH Carrier {#bcch-carrier .H6}
> This field indicates the absolute RF channel number of the particular BTS.
Range: 0 - 1023.
### A.2.2 RIT Measurement Response Message
The RIT Measurement Response is a message from the LMU to the SMLC. It is the
response to the RIT Measurement Request. It contains the following information
elements.
Table A.2.2: RIT Measurement Response message content
* * *
Information element Type/Reference Presence Message Type Message Type
A.2.2.1.1 M RIT Measurement RIT Measurement A.2.2.1.2 M
* * *
#### A.2.2.1 RIT Measurement Response Message Information Elements
##### A.2.2.1.1 Message type IE
This IE contains the type of the message. This IE is mandatory.
##### A.2.2.1.2 RIT Measurement IE
This IE includes the required RIT measurements. The length of this IE depends
on the number of measured neighbor BTSs. This IE is mandatory.
##### Reference LAC {#reference-lac .H6}
This field indicates the Location Area Code of the reference BTS. The purpose
of the Location Area Code is to identify a location area.
Range: 0 - 65535.
##### Reference CI {#reference-ci .H6}
This field indicates the Cell Identity value of the reference BTS. The purpose
of the Cell Identity value is to identify a cell within a location area.
Range: 0 - 65535.
##### Reference Frame Number {#reference-frame-number .H6}
This field indicates the frame number of the last measured burst from the
reference BTS.
Range: 0 - 2715647.
##### Response Type {#response-type .H6}
This field indicates whether AT of reference BTS is reported or not.
\'0\': AT of reference BTS is not reported.
\'1\': AT of reference BTS is reported.
##### Common Clock {#common-clock .H6}
This field indicates the type of the common reference clock for AT
measurement. This field is included only if the Response Type field is \'1\'.
\'0\': GPS clock is used.
\'1\': glonass clock is used
\'2\': Galileo clock is used
'3': QZSS clock is used
'4': BDS clock is used
\'5\' to \'7\' : Reserved for future use (e.g. Synchronized atomic clocks).
##### Reference AT {#reference-at .H6}
This field indicates the measured AT value for the serving BTS. It is the
starting moment of a time slot. It is counted in two parts: seconds after last
minute change, and nanoseconds after last second change.This field is included
only if the Response Type field is \'1\'.
Range:
seconds: 0-59.
nanoseconds: 0-999,999,999.
##### Reference AT Quality Resolution {#reference-at-quality-resolution .H6}
Reference AT Quality Resolution field includes the resolution used in
Reference AT Quality field. Encoding on 2 bits as follows.
\'00\' 0.005 micro seconds.
\'01\' 0.01 micro seconds.
\'10\' 0.05 micro seconds.
\'11\' Reserved.
This field is included only if the Response Type field is \'1\'.
##### Reference AT Quality {#reference-at-quality .H6}
Reference AT Quality field includes the quality of reported RIT measurement.
This Reference AT Quality field can be e.g. used to evaluate the reliability
of AT measurements in the SMLC. Reference AT quality is defined as
Reference AT Quality =$\sqrt{E\left\lbrack \left( x - \mu \right)^{2}
\right\rbrack}$= Std of reported AT value;
where $x$ is the reported Reference AT value and $\mu = E\left\lbrack x
\right\rbrack$ is its expectation value. The reporting resolution of Reference
AT Quality is defined by Reference AT Quality resolution field.
Range: 0 to 63.
Value 63 means that Reference AT Quality is greater than or equal to R*63,
where R is the resolution defined in Reference AT Quality Resolution field.
This field is included only if the Response Type field is \'1\'.
##### Reference AT Change {#reference-at-change .H6}
This field indicates the first time derivative of the AT value for the
reference BTS. This value is based on measurements made during Monitor Period,
if the monitoring period is provided. Otherwise it is the best estimate of AT
Change value at the time of last AT measurement. This field is conditional and
included if Response Type field is \'1\'. The range is -0.05 ... 0.05 ppm and
resolution is 0,00005 ppm.
Range: -1000 ... 1000.
##### Reference AT Change Quality Resolution {#reference-at-change-quality-
resolution .H6}
Reference AT Change Quality Resolution field includes the resolution used in
Reference AT Change Quality field. Encoding on 2 bits as follows.
\'00\' 0.00005 ppm.
\'01\' 0.0001 ppm.
\'10\' 0.0005 ppm.
\'11\' Reserved.
This field is conditional and included if the Response Type field is \'1\'.
##### Reference AT Change Quality {#reference-at-change-quality .H6}
Reference AT Change Quality field includes the quality of reported Reference
AT Change. This Reference AT Change Quality field can be e.g. used to evaluate
the reliability of RIT measurements in the SMLC. Reference AT Change Quality
is defined as.
Reference AT Change Quality =$\sqrt{E\left\lbrack \left( x - \mu \right)^{2}
\right\rbrack}$= Std of reported AT Change value;
where $x$ is the reported Reference AT Change and $\mu = E\left\lbrack x
\right\rbrack$ is its expectation value. The reporting resolution of Reference
AT Change Quality is defined by Reference AT Change Quality Resolution field.
Range: 0 to 63.
This field is conditional and included if the Response Type field is \'1\'.
##### Reference Time Slot {#reference-time-slot .H6}
Reference Time Slot indicates the time slot relative to which the LMU reports
the reference BTS measurements. This field is mandatory.
Range: 0 to 7
NOTE: If the LMU does not know timeslot scheme, the LMU reports the used
timeslot. The LMU can only report results based on one time slot (N) or two
time slots (N and N+4). If the LMU knows timeslot scheme, the LMU can make
measurements from several timeslots and reports that the used timeslot is zero
(and makes correction).
##### Reference RX Level {#reference-rx-level .H6}
RX Level field includes the received signal strength of the reference BTS.
The RX Level is expressed in 2 dBm steps within the range -150 .. -24 dBm.
Range: 0 .. 63.
##### ATD/RTD Quality Resolution {#atdrtd-quality-resolution .H6}
ATD/RTD Quality Resolution field includes the resolution used in ATD/RTD
Quality field. Encoding on 2 bits as follows.
\'00\' 0.005 micro seconds.
\'01\' 0.01 micro seconds.
\'10\' 0.05 micro seconds.
\'11\' Reserved.
This field is mandatory.
##### ATD/RTD Change Quality Resolution {#atdrtd-change-quality-resolution
.H6}
ATD/RTD Change Quality Resolution field includes the resolution used in
ATD/RTD Change Quality field. Encoding on 2 bits as follows.
\'00\' 0.00005 ppm.
\'01\' 0.0001 ppm.
\'10\' 0.0005 ppm.
\'11\' Reserved.
This field is mandatory.
##### Number of Measured Neighbors {#number-of-measured-neighbors .H6}
This field indicates the number of different neighbor BTSs.
NOTE: If the LMU can not measure any neighbor BTSs, then this value is set to
\'0\'.
Range: 0 - 15
The following fields are repeated the number of times included in Number of
Measured Neighbors field.
##### CellIdType {#cellidtype .H6}
This field indicates is the identity method of the cell.
\'0\' = Cell identity is told using BSIC and BCCH carrier.
\'1\' = Cell identity is told using CI.
##### Neighbor CI {#neighbor-ci .H6}
This field indicates the Cell Identity of the particular neighbor cell. The
purpose of the Cell Identity value is to identify a cell within a location
area.
Neighbor CI field is a conditional field and it is included only if CellIdType
is set \'1\' and CI value of the given cell is available.
Range: 0 - 65535.
##### Neighbor BSIC {#neighbor-bsic .H6}
This field indicates the BSIC (Base Station Identity Code of the base
station).
BSIC field is conditional and it is included only if CellIdType is set \'0\'.
Range: 0 - 63.
##### Neighbor BCCH Carrier {#neighbor-bcch-carrier .H6}
This field indicates the absolute RF channel number of the neighbor base
station. BCCH carrier field is conditional and it is included only if
CellIdType is set \'0\'.
Range: 0 - 1023
##### Neighbor RX Level {#neighbor-rx-level .H6}
RX Level field includes the received signal strength on the neighbor BTS.
The RX Level is expressed in 2 dBm steps within the range -150 .. -24 dBm.
Range: 0 .. 63.
##### Neighbor Frame Number {#neighbor-frame-number .H6}
This field indicates the calculated value of the neighbor BTS\'s frame that
would have been received at the same time or immediately after as the last
measured frame from the reference BTS. This field is optional.
Range: 0 - 2715647
##### Neighbor Time Slot {#neighbor-time-slot .H6}
Neighbor Time Slot indicates the time slot relative to which the LMU reports
the serving BTS measurements. This field is mandatory.
Range: 0 to 7
NOTE: If the LMU does not know timeslot scheme, the LMU reports the used
timeslot. The LMU can only report results based on one time slot (N) or two
time slots (N and N+4). If the LMU knows timeslot scheme, the LMU can make
measurements from several timeslots and reports that the used timeslot is zero
(and makes correction).
##### ATD/RTD Value {#atdrtd-value .H6}
This field indicates the measured ATD/RTD value between the receptions of
signals from the reference and the neighbor BTS. This ATD/RTD value is the
difference in reception of signal (the starting moment of time slot) from
reference BTS compared to the signal (next starting moment of a time slot)
from the neighbor BTS (i.e. this value is always positive). This field is
mandatory. The reporting resolution of ATD/RTD value is 0.005 micro-seconds.
Range: 0 ... 923200.
NOTE: The reported ATD/RTD value may be based on some filtering or estimation
algorithm. I.e. the reported value is not the last measurement result, it is
the best estimate of real RTD value at the time of last measurement.
##### ATD/RTD Quality {#atdrtd-quality .H6}
ATD/RTD Quality field includes the quality of reported RIT measurement. This
ATD/RTD Quality field can be e.g. used to evaluate the reliability of RIT
measurements in the SMLC. ATD/RTD quality is defined as
ATD/RTD Quality =$\sqrt{E\left\lbrack \left( x - \mu \right)^{2}
\right\rbrack}$ = Std of reported ATD/RTD value;
where $x$ is the reported ATD/RTD value and $\mu = E\left\lbrack x
\right\rbrack$ is its expectation value. The reporting resolution of ATD/RTD
Quality is defined by ATD/RTD Quality resolution field.
Range: 0 to 63
This field is mandatory.
##### ATD/RTD Change {#atdrtd-change .H6}
This field indicates the first time derivative of the ATD/RTD value between
the receptions of signals from the reference and the neighbor BTS. This value
is based on measurements made during Monitor Period, if the monitoring period
is provided. Otherwise it is the best estimate of the ATD/RTD Change value at
the time of last ATD/RTD measurement. The range is -0.1 ... 0.1 ppm and
resolution is 0,00005 ppm.
Range: -2000 ... 2000
##### ATD/RTD Change Quality {#atdrtd-change-quality .H6}
ATD/RTD Change Quality field includes the quality of reported ATD/RTD Change.
This ATD/RTD Change Quality field can be e.g. used to evaluate the reliability
of RIT measurements in the SMLC. ATD/RTD Change Quality is defined as
ATD/RTD Change Quality =$\sqrt{E\left\lbrack \left( x - \mu \right)^{2}
\right\rbrack}$= Std of reported ATD/RTD Change value;
where $x$ is the reported ATD/RTD Change and $\mu = E\left\lbrack x
\right\rbrack$ is its expectation value. The reporting resolution of ATD/RTD
Change Quality is defined by ATD/RTD Change Quality resolution field.
Range: 0 to 63
This field is mandatory.
### A.2.3 RIT Measurement Stop Message
The RIT Measurement Stop is a message from the SMLC to the LMU. It is sent
when the SMLC wants the LMU to stop doing RIT measurements and reporting them.
It contains the following information elements.
Table A.2.3: RIT Measurement Stop message content
* * *
Information element Type/Reference Presence Message Type Message Type
A.2.3.1.1 M
* * *
#### A.2.3.1 RIT Measurement Stop Message Information Elements
##### A.2.3.1.1 Message type IE
This IE contains the type of the message. This IE is mandatory.
### A.2.4 RIT Measurement Error Message
The RIT Measurement Error is a message from the LMU to the SMLC. It is sent
any time when the LMU can not perform RIT measurements asked for in the RIT
Measurement Request. This message can be returned in return result (after
reception of measurement command) or as separate message (during periodic
measurement). It contains the following information elements.
Table A.2.4: RIT Measurement Error message content
* * *
Information element Type/Reference Presence Message Type Message Type
A.2.4.1.1 M Error Type RIT Error Type A.2.4.1.2 M RIT Error RIT Error
A.2.4.1.3 M
* * *
#### A.2.4.1 RIT Measurement Error Message Information Elements
##### A.2.4.1.1 Message type IE
This IE contains the type of the message. This IE is mandatory.
##### A.2.4.1.2 RIT Error Type IE
This IE indicates whether the error is temporarily (e.g. GNSS receiver reset)
or permanent errors. Permanent error requires actions in SMLC, temporarily
error informs that LMU can not send results temporarily (but it is expected to
recover without any actions from SMLC).
\'0\' = Permanent error.
\'1\' = Temporarily error.
##### A.2.4.1.3 RIT Error IE
The purpose of the RIT Error IE is to provide the indication of error and the
reason for it, when the LMU can not report required RIT results. This IE is
mandatory. This IE has the following fields.
##### Error Reason {#error-reason .H6}
This field indicates the reason for error.
> \'0\': There were no neighbor BTSs to be received.
>
> \'1\': No ATD measurements were possible, since the common reference clock
> was not available.
>
> \'2\': Requested type of measurements is not supported.
>
> \'3\': Undefined error.
###### ## Annex B (informative): (void)
###### ## Annex C (informative): Status Messages
## C.1 Introduction
This annex describes the contents of messages related to the status of an LMU.
## C.2 Messages
The messages below are considered to be transported between the SMLC and the
LMU.
### C.2.1 Status Query Message
The Status Query is a message from the SMLC to the LMU. It contains the
following information elements.
Table C.2.1: Status Query message content
* * *
Information element Type/Reference Presence Message Type Message Type
C.2.1.1.1 M
* * *
#### C.2.1.1 Status Query Message Information Elements
##### C.2.1.1.1 Message Type IE
This IE contains the type of the message. This IE is mandatory.
### C.2.2 Status Query Result Message
The Status Query Result is a message from the LMU to the SMLC. It contains the
following information elements.
Table C.2.2: Status Query Result message content
* * *
Information element Type/Reference Presence Message Type Message Type 5.2.1.1
M Time Time C.2.2.1.2 M RIT Status RIT Status C.2.2.1.3 M Reserved Reserved
(see note) C.2.2.1.4 M O&M Status O&M Status C.2.2.1.5 M NOTE: This value was
allocated in an earlier phase of the protocol and shall not be used in the
future.
* * *
#### C.2.2.1 Status Query Result Message Information Elements
##### C.2.2.1.1 Message Type IE
This IE contains the type of the message. This IE is mandatory.
##### C.2.2.1.2 Time IE
This IE contains the time stamp for this message. This IE is mandatory, and it
contains the following fields:
##### Reference LAC {#reference-lac-1 .H6}
This field indicates the Location Area Code of the reference BTS. The purpose
of the Location Area Code is to identify a location area.
Range: 0 - 65535.
##### Reference CI {#reference-ci-1 .H6}
This field indicates the Cell Identity value of the reference BTS. The purpose
of the Cell Identity value is to identify a cell within a location area.
Range: 0 - 65535.
##### Reference Frame Number {#reference-frame-number-1 .H6}
This field indicates the frame number of the last measured burst from the
reference BTS.
Range: 0 - 2715647.
##### C.2.2.1.3 RIT Status IE
The purpose of the RIT Status IE is to inform the SMLC about the status of on-
going RIT related activity. This IE is mandatory, and it contains the
following fields:
##### RIT Jobs {#rit-jobs .H6}
This field indicates the number of on-going RIT related jobs, i.e. the number
of neighbor BTSs that are tried to be measured. Notice that 0 means that no
RIT related activity is on-going.
Range: 0 - 63.
##### C.2.2.1.4 Reserved IE
This IE is reserved and the value is 0.
Range: 0 - 63.
##### C.2.2.1.5 O&M Status IE
The purpose of the O&M Status IE is to inform the SMLC about the status of on-
going O&M related activity. This IE is mandatory, and it contains the
following fields:
##### O&M Jobs {#om-jobs .H6}
This field indicates the number of on-going O&M related jobs.
Range: 0 - 63.
### C.2.3 Status Update Message
The Status Update is a message from the LMU to the SMLC. It contains the
following information elements.
Table C.2.3: Status Response message content
* * *
Information element Type/Reference Presence Message Type Message Type
C.2.3.1.1 M Reason for Status Update Reason for Status Update C.2.3.1.2 M Time
Time C.2.2.1.2 M RIT Status RIT Status C.2.2.1.3 M Reserved Reserved (see
note) C.2.2.1.4 M O&M Status O&M Status C.2.2.1.5 M NOTE: This value was
allocated in an earlier phase of the protocol and shall not be used in the
future.
* * *
#### C.2.3.1 Status Update Message Information Elements
##### C.2.3.1.1 Message Type IE
This IE contains the type of the message. This IE is mandatory.
##### C.2.3.1.2 Reason for Status Update IE
This IE contains the reason for sending this Status Update Message. This IE is
mandatory, and it contains the following fields:
##### Reason Code {#reason-code .H6}
This field indicates Reason code for sending this Status Update Message.
> \'0\': power up (no knowledge about previous states).
>
> \'1\': SW reset, unsuccessful recovery.
>
> \'2\': SW reset, successful recovery.
>
> \'3\': unknown selfdiagnosis error.
>
> \'4\': unreliable timebase error.
>
> \'5\': periodic status report, normal operation.
#