# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present document gives the stage 2 description of the Multicall service
within the 3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document gives the stage 2 description of the Multicall
supplementary service.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"3GPP Vocabulary\".
  1. 3GPP TS 22.100: \"UMTS Phase 1\".
  2. 3GPP TS 22.105: \"Services & Service capabilities\".
  3. 3GPP TS 22.135: \"Multicall Stage 1\".
  4. 3GPP TS 23.009: \"Handover procedures\".
  5. 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Technical realisation of supplementary services\".
  6. 3GPP TS 23.018: \"Basic call handling; Technical realization\".
  7. 3GPP TS 23.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) Supplementary Service - Stage 2\".
  8. 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification Core Network Protocol -- Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 22.135 and the following apply.
**Speech Call:** speech call means one of TS11 (Telephony), TS12 (Emergency
call), TS61 (Alternate speech and facsimile group 3).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in TR 21.905.
# 4 Descriptions
## 4.1 Handling of Multicall
### 4.1.1 Provision
No special signalling procedures apply.
### 4.1.2 Withdrawal
No special signalling procedures apply.
### 4.1.3 Registration
The information flow for registration is shown in figure 1. The registration
process is shown in figure 2.
Figure 1: Registration of Multicall
Figure 2: Process Register_Multicall_HLR
### 4.1.4 Erasure
No special signalling procedures apply.
### 4.1.5 Activation
The service provider shall provide an initial value for N**~br~_** User when
activating the service. No special signalling procedures apply.
### 4.1.6 Deactivation
No special signalling procedures apply.
### 4.1.7 Interrogation
The information flow for interrogation is shown in figure 3. The interrogation
process is shown in figure 4.
Figure 3: Interrogation of Multicall
{width="6.768055555555556in" height="8.185416666666667in"}
Figure 4: Process Interrogate_Multicall_VLR
## 4.2 Call related procedures
The procedures for basic call handling are specified in 3GPP TS 23.018. These
shall also be used for Multicall.
### 4.2.1 MO call
Figure 5 shows the flow of information between network elements for an MO
call:
Figure 5: Information flow for mobile originating call
### 4.2.2 MT call
Figure 6 and Figure 7 show the flow of information between network elements
for an MT call:
\- Case 1: When the MS requests a new bearer in call confirmed. (Figure 6).
\- Case 2: When the MS requests a new bearer in Connect. (Figure 7).
Figure 6: Information flow for mobile terminating call (Case1)
Figure 7: Information flow for mobile terminating call (Case2)
## 4.3 Messages and their contents
This clause contains the detailed description of the information flows used by
Multicall.
Each Information Element, IE, is marked as (M) Mandatory, (C) Conditional or
(O) Optional. A mandatory information element shall always be present. A
conditional information shall be present if certain conditions are fulfilled;
if those conditions are not fulfilled it shall be absent. An optional
information element may be present or absent, at the discretion of the
application at the sending entity. This categorisation is a functional
classification, i.e., stage 2 information and not a stage 3 classification to
be used for the protocol.
The stage 2 and stage 3 message and information element names are not
necessarily identical.
### 4.3.1 Messages between MS and MSC
Table 1 indicates messages between the MS and the MSC for mobile originating
calls and mobile terminating calls. (Refer to TS 24.008).
The MS shall indicate the maximum number of bearers supported by the MS in the
CC capabilities IE. The MS shall also indicate the maximum number of
simultaneous speech bearers supported by the MS for future compatibility. For
Release 99, the maximum number of simultaneous speech bearers is 1. If the MS
does not indicate the maximum number of bearers the network shall assume it
does not support Multicall.
The network supporting Multicall shall indicate the capability in the NW CC
capabilities IE. If the NW CC capabilities IE is not sent from the network,
the MS supporting Multicall shall assume that the network doesn't support
Multicall. If an MS initiating an emergency call is located in a network that
does not support Multicall, the MS shall release one or more existing call to
ensure that the emergency call can be established.
Table 1: Messages between MS and MSC
* * *
**Message** **Message sender** Information element name **Information element
Required** **Information element description** Setup (MO) MS Stream Identifier
M This information element indicates which bearer (new or existing) shall be
used for the call. CC Capabilities C For the first call, this information
element shall be included to indicate the maximum number of bearers supported
by the MS. Emergency Setup MS Stream Identifier M This information element
indicates which bearer (new or existing) shall be used for the call. Call
Confirmed MS Stream Identifier M This information element indicates whether a
new bearer is requested, i.e. SI=value which is not used by any of the
existing bearers , or no bearer is requested at that point in time, i.e.
SI="no bearer". CC Capabilities C For the first call, this information element
shall be included to indicate the maximum number of bearers supported by the
MS. Connect (MT) MS Stream Identifier C This IE shall be present in the
Connect message if the SI contained \"No bearer\" in the Call Confirmed
message, otherwise shall be absent. Setup (MT) NW NW CC Capabilities C This
information element shall be present for the first call. Call Proceeding NW NW
CC Capabilities C
* * *
### 4.3.2 Messages on B interface (MSC-VLR)
#### 4.3.2.1 Send Info For Outgoing Call
This message is specified in 3GPP TS 23.018. The following additional
information element is required:
* * *
Information element name Required Description Total number of bearers in use M
Total number includes the new bearer if requested for the call.
* * *
#### 4.3.2.2 Send Info For Outgoing Call negative response
This message is specified in 3GPP TS 23.018. The following additional
information element is required:
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Information element name | Required | Description | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Negative response | M | If the VLR detects that | | information element | | the OG call can not be | | | | permitted because | | | | Multicall limit set by the | | | | user is exceeded, it shall | | | | indicate \" | | | | N**~br~** _User is | | | | exceeded\" as the negative | | | | response information | | | | element value. | | | | | | | | If the VLR detects that | | | | the OG call can not be | | | | permitted because the user | | | | is not provisioned with | | | | Multicall, it shall | | | | indicate \"Multicall not | | | | provisioned\" as the | | | | negative response | | | | information element value. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
#### 4.3.2.3 Send Info For Incoming Call
This message is specified in TS 23.018.
#### 4.3.2.4 Send Info For Incoming Call ack
This message is specified in TS 23.018.
#### 4.3.2.5 Send Info For Incoming Call negative response
This message is specified in TS 23.018.
#### 4.3.2.6 Complete Call
This message is specified in TS 23.018.
#### 4.3.2.7 Complete Call ack
This message is specified in TS 23.018.
#### 4.3.2.8 Page MS
This message is specified in 3GPP TS 23.018. The following additional
information element is required:
* * *
Information element name Required Description N**~br~** _User M Shall be
present if the subscriber is provisioned with Multicall.
* * *
#### 4.3.2.9 Page MS negative response
This message is specified in 3GPP TS 23.018. The following additional
information element is required:
* * *
Information element name Required Description Basic service list C If the MSC
detects subscriber busy (More Calls Possible), the Basic service list shall be
included, see Table 2.
* * *
Table 2: Basic Service List setting
* * *
**Condition** **Setting**  
The terminating call type is speech There exists an active or held speech call
Basic service of active call via the same bearer as the existing speech call.
If an active call does not exist via the same bearer as the existing speech
call "speech" shall be indicated. There exists no speech call All basic
services of ongoing calls The terminating call type is not speech All basic
services of ongoing calls
* * *
#### 4.3.2.10 Process Access Request
This message is specified in TS 23.018.
#### 4.3.2.11 Process Access Request ack
This message is specified in TS 23.018.
#### 4.3.2.12 Process Access Request negative response
This message is specified in TS 23.018.
#### 4.3.2.13 Search For MS
This message is specified in 3GPP TS 23.018. The following additional
information element is required:
* * *
Information element name Required Description N**~br~** _User M Shall be
present if the subscriber is provisioned with Multicall.
* * *
#### 4.3.2.14 Search For MS ack
This message is specified in 3GPP TS 23.018.
#### 4.3.2.15 Search For MS negative response
This message is specified in 3GPP TS 23.018. The following additional
information element is required:
* * *
Information element name Required Description Basic service list C If the MSC
detects subscriber busy (More Calls Possible), the Basic service list shall be
included, see Table 2.
* * *
# 5 Network entity functions
The following SDL diagrams describe the procedures within individual network
entities for handling Multicall.
## 5.1 General
The MSC shall check whether the maximum number of bearers has been reached for
both MO and MT call. In counting of the current number of bearers for the
target subscriber, the following situations are counted as an active bearer.
  * Call in set-up.
  * Established call.
  * Call on hold.
  * Call on hold and established call on the same bearer.
  * Call on hold and MO call in Setup on the same bearer.
## 5.2 MO call
### 5.2.1 Functional requirements of serving MSC
Figure 8: Procedure Check_OG_Multicall_MSC.
This procedure is called when the MSC receives a Setup message from the MS.
After handover procedure completion to another MSC, N**~br~** _SN as defined
for the target MSC shall overwrite the previous N**~br~** _SN.
Figure 8: Procedure Check_OG_Multicall_MSC
### 5.2.2 Functional requirements of VLR
Figure 9: Procedure Check_OG_Multicall_VLR.
This procedure is called when the VLR receives a Send Info For Outgoing Call
message from the MSC.
{width="6.768055555555556in" height="8.539583333333333in"}
Figure 9: Procedure Check_OG_Multicall_VLR
## 5.3 MT call
### 5.3.1 Functional requirements of serving MSC
Figure 10: Procedure Check_MT_Multicall_MSC.
This procedure is called when the MSC receives a Page MS message or a Search
For MS message from the VLR. The maximum number of bearers (N**~br~**)
indicates the minimum value of N**~br~** _User, N**~br~** _SN and N**~br~**
_UE. After handover to another MSC is completed, N**~br~** _SN, as defined for
the target MSC, shall overwrite the previous N**~br~** _SN.
\"Call in Setup\" means that the MS is engaged in at least one call that has
not reached the established phase (called party answer).
The test \"Call waiting\" takes the \"Yes\" exit if a waiting call has been
offered to the subscriber but the outcome of offering the call has not been
determined.
Figure 11: Procedure Establish_Terminating_TCH_Multicall.
This procedure is called when the MSC receives a Call Confirmed or a Connect
message from the MS. If the MS indicates \"No bearer\" as the value of the
Stream Identifier in the Call Confirmed message the test \"Bearer allocation
pending\" takes the \"Yes\" exit.
Figure 12: Procedure MC_TCH_Check
This procedure is called when the MSC needs to establish a terminating TCH.
Figure 10: Procedure Check_MT_Multicall_MSC
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="8.444444444444445in"}
Figure 11: Procedure Establish_Terminating_TCH_Multicall
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="8.09375in"}
Figure 12: Procedure MC_TCH_Check
### 5.3.2 Functional requirements of VLR
Figure 13: Procedure Get_CW_Subscription_Info_Multicall_VLR.
This procedure is called when the VLR receives a Page MS negative response
message or a Search For MS negative response message with the negative
response IE set to \"Busy (More Calls Possible)\".
{width="6.768055555555556in" height="8.539583333333333in"}
Figure 13: Procedure Get_CW_Subscription_Info_Multicall_VLR
# 6 Interaction with telecommunication services
## 6.1 Speech
The Multicall supplementary service does not provide multiple traffic channels
for speech calls. Refer to Procedure Check_OG_Multicall_MSC and Procedure
Check_MT_Multicall_MSC.
If N**~br~** _UE is greater than N**~br~** _SN, the mobile station may
initiate an Emergency call even if N**~br~** _SN has been reached. When the
network receives an Emergency call Setup message from the mobile station:
\- if N**~br~** _SN has not been reached, the network shall accept it
regardless of N**~br~** _SB or N**~br~** _User;
\- if N**~br~** _SN has been reached, the network shall reject the emergency
call setup attempt. The MS shall release one or more existing calls and it
shall re-initiate an Emergency call.
The MS shall ensure that an emergency call Setup request is acceptable to a
serving network which does not support multicall, if necessary by releasing
one or more existing calls.
## 6.2 Short message service
No impact.
## 6.3 Facsimile service
The Multicall supplementary service provides multiple traffic channels for
facsimile service except for alternate speech and facsimile group 3.
## 6.4 Data circuit asynchronous
The Multicall supplementary service provides multiple traffic channels for
data circuit asynchronous.
## 6.5 Data circuit synchronous
The Multicall supplementary service provides multiple traffic channels for
data circuit synchronous.
## 6.6 Void
## 6.7 GPRS
No impact.
# 7 Interaction with other supplementary services
## 7.1 Line Identification services
No impact.
## 7.2 Call forwarding unconditional (CFU)
No impact.
## 7.3 Call forward on busy (CFB)
The condition NDUB occurs in accordance with the definition for multicall.
(See TS 22.135).
## 7.4 Call forwarding on no reply (CFNRy)
No impact.
## 7.5 Call forwarding on MS not reachable (CFNRc)
No impact.
## 7.6 Call Hold (CH)
No impact.
## 7.7 Call Waiting (CW)
Call Waiting SS will be invoked under the conditions described in TS 22.135.
## 7.8 Multiparty service (MPTY)
No impact.
## 7.9 Closed user group (CUG)
No impact.
## 7.10 Advice Of Charge (AoC)
No impact.
## 7.11 Call Barring services
No impact.
## 7.12 Explicit call transfer (ECT)
No impact.
## 7.13 Call Deflection (CD)
No impact.
## 7.14 Completion of calls to busy subscriber (CCBS)
The NDUB condition occurs in accordance with the definition for multicall.
(See 3GPP TS 22.135).
A subscriber provisioned with multicall is in the idle state when the
subscriber has no ongoing (active or held) calls. CCBS requests in the
destination B CCBS queue shall be processed if destination B is idle.
# 8 Interaction with network features
## 8.1 Customised Applications for Mobile network Enhanced Logic (CAMEL)
No impact.
## 8.2 Support of Optimal Routeing (SOR)
No impact.
## 8.3 Operator Determined Barring (ODB)
No impact.
# 9 Information stored in the HLR
The following logical states are applicable for Multicall (refer to TS 23.011
for an explanation of the notation):
* * *
**Provisioning State** **Registration State** **Activation State** **HLR
Induction State** (Not Provisioned, Not Applicable, Not Active, Not Induced)
(Provisioned, Registered, Active and Operative, Not Induced)
* * *
The HLR shall store:
\- The state of Multicall (which shall be one of the valid states listed
above) per subscriber.
\- The subscription option \"maximum number of bearers N**~br~** _SB\" per
subscriber:
\- This subscription option takes a value in the range (2 -- 7).
  * The subscription option "maximum number of bearers N**~br~** _User" per subscriber:
> \- This subscription option takes a value in the range (1 -- N**~br~** _SB).
# 10 State transition model
Figure 14 shows the successful cases of transition between the applicable
logical states of Multicall. The state changes are caused by actions of the
service provider.
Note that error cases are not shown in the diagram, as they normally do not
cause a state change. Additionally, some successful requests may not cause a
state change. Hence they are not shown in the diagram.
Figure 14: State transition model for Multicall
# 11 Transfer of information from HLR to VLR
If the provisioning state for Multicall is \"Provisioned\" then when the
subscriber registers on a VLR the HLR shall send that VLR information about
the logical state of Multicall, N**~br~_** User and N**~br~** _SB.
If the logical state of Multicall, the subscription options N**~br~** _SB or
N**~br~_** User are changed while a subscriber is registered on a VLR then the
HLR shall inform the VLR of the new logical state of Multicall, the new
N**~br~_** User or the new N**~br~** _SB.
# 12 Information stored in VLR
The VLR shall store the service state information, N**~br~** _SB and
N**~br~_** User as received from the HLR.
# 13 Handover
In the case that the network supports Multicall, it shall be possible to
handover multiple bearers (See TS 23.009).
###### ## Annex A (informative): Examples
The following table shows some examples:
**1 Mobile Originating Call (MO call).**
As an example: N~br~=2.
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | * | **Ad | | | | | | *Current | ditional | | | | | | Status** | MO | | | | | | | call**| | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ |** No**| ** |** Number | **Number | ** |** Data**| | | Status** | of | of | Speech**| | | | | b | calls** | | | | | | earers** | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1 | None | 0 | 0 | Ac | Ac | | | | | | ceptable | ceptable | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 2 | 1 Speech | 1 | 1 | Rejected | Ac | | | call | | | | ceptable | | | (active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 3 | 1 Speech | 1 | 1 | Ac | Ac | | | call(on | | | ceptable | ceptable | | | hold) | | | | | | | | | | (with | | | | | | | same SI) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Rejected | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (with | | | | | | | another | | | | | | | SI) | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 4 | 1 Data | 1 | 1 | Ac | Ac | | | call | | | ceptable | ceptable | | | (active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 5 | 1 Speech | 1 | 2 | Rejected | Ac | | | call(on | | | | ceptable | | | hold) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 Speech | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 6 | 1 Speech | 1 | 2 | Rejected | Ac | | | call(on | | | | ceptable | | | hold) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 Data | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 7 | Mu | 1 | 2 - 5 | Rejected | Ac | | | ltiparty | | | | ceptable | | | | | | | | | | (2-5 | | | | | | | remote | | | | | | | parties: | | | | | | | active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8 | Mu | 1 | 2 - 5 | Ac | Ac | | | ltiparty | | | ceptable | ceptable | | | | | | | | | | (2-5 | | | (with | | | | remote | | | same SI) | | | | parties: | | | | | | | on hold) | | | Rejected | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (with | | | | | | | another | | | | | | | SI) | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 9 | 1 Speech | 2 | 2 | Rejected | Rejected | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 Data | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 10 | 1 Speech | 2 | 2 | Ac | Ac | | | call(on | | | ceptable | ceptable | | | hold) | | | | | | | | | | (with | (with | | | 1 Data | | | same SI | same SI | | | call | | | as | as | | | (active) | | | speech | speech | | | | | | call) | call) | | | | | | | | | | | | | Rejected | Rejected | | | | | | | | | | | | | (with | (with | | | | | | another | another | | | | | | SI) | SI) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 11 | 1 Speech | 2 | 3 | Rejected | Rejected | | | call(on | | | | | | | hold) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 Speech | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 Data | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 12 | 2 Data | 2 | 2 | Rejected | Rejected | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 13 | 1 Speech | 2 | 3 | Rejected | Rejected | | | call(on | | | | | | | hold) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2 Data | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 14 | Mu | 2 | 3 - 6 | Rejected | Rejected | | | ltiparty | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (2-5 | | | | | | | remote | | | | | | | parties: | | | | | | | active) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 Data | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 15 | Mu | 2 | 3 - 6 | Ac | Ac | | | ltiparty | | | ceptable | ceptable | | | | | | | | | | (2-5 | | | (with | (with | | | remote | | | same SI | same SI | | | parties: | | | as | as | | | on hold) | | | speech | speech | | | | | | call) | call) | | | 1 Data | | | | | | | call | | | Rejected | Rejected | | | (active) | | | | | | | | | | (with | (with | | | | | | another | another | | | | | | SI) | SI) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
**2 Mobile Terminated Call (MT call).**
As an example: N~br~=2 (CW is not active).
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | * | **Ad | | | | | | *Current | ditional | | | | | | Status** | MT | | | | | | | call**| | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ |** No**| ** |** Number | **Number | ** |** Data**| | | Status** | of | of | Speech**| | | | | b | calls** | | | | | | earers** | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1 | None | 0 | 0 | Offered | Offered | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 2 | 1 Speech | 1 | 1 | Busy | Offered | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 3 | 1 Speech | 1 | 1 | Busy | Offered | | | call(on | | | | | | | hold) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 4 | 1 Data | 1 | 1 | Offered | Offered | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 5 | 1 Speech | 1 | 2 | Busy | Offered | | | call(on | | | | | | | hold) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 Speech | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 6 | 1 Speech | 1 | 2 | Busy | Offered | | | call(on | | | | | | | hold) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 Data | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 7 | Mu | 1 | 2 - 5 | Busy | Offered | | | ltiparty | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (2-5 | | | | | | | remote | | | | | | | parties: | | | | | | | active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8 | Mu | 1 | 2 - 5 | Busy | Offered | | | ltiparty | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (2-5 | | | | | | | remote | | | | | | | parties: | | | | | | | on hold) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 9 | 1 Speech | 2 | 2 | Busy | Busy | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 Data | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 10 | 1 Speech | 2 | 2 | Busy | Busy | | | call(on | | | | | | | hold) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 Data | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 11 | 1 Speech | 2 | 3 | Busy | Busy | | | call(on | | | | | | | hold) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 Speech | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 Data | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 12 | 2 Data | 2 | 2 | Busy | Busy | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 13 | 1 Speech | 2 | 3 | Busy | Busy | | | call(on | | | | | | | hold) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2 Data | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 14 | Mu | 2 | 3 - 6 | Busy | Busy | | | ltiparty | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (2-5 | | | | | | | remote | | | | | | | parties: | | | | | | | active) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 Data | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 15 | Mu | 2 | 3 - 6 | Busy | Busy | | | ltiparty | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (2-5 | | | | | | | remote | | | | | | | parties: | | | | | | | on hold) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 Data | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
**3 Call Waiting (CW).**
As an example: N~br~=2 (CW is provisioned).
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | * | **Ad | | | | | | *Current | ditional | | | | | | Status** | MT | | | | | | | call**| | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ |** No**| ** |** CW | **CW | ** |** Data**| | | Status** | status | status | Speech**| | | | | for | for | | | | | | speech** | data** | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1 | None | - | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 2 | 1 Speech | active | - | CW | MT | | | call | | | offered | offered | | | (active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Not | - | busy | MT | | | | active | | | offered | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 3 | 1 Speech | active | - | CW | MT | | | call(on | | | offered | offered | | | hold) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Not | | busy | MT | | | | active | | | offered | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 4 | 1 Data | - | active | MT | MT | | | call | | | offered | offered | | | (active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | Not | MT | MT | | | | | active | offered | offered | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 5 | 1 Speech | active | active | CW | MT | | | call(on | | | offered | offered | | | hold) | | | | | | | via | | | | | | | bearer A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 Speech | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | | | via | | | | | | | bearer A | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | active | Not | CW | MT | | | | | active | offered | offered | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Not | active | busy | MT | | | | active | | | offered | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Not | Not | busy | MT | | | | active | active | | offered | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 6 | 1 Speech | active | active | CW | MT | | | call(on | | | offered | offered | | | hold) | | | | | | | via | | | | | | | bearer A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 Data | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | | | via | | | | | | | bearer A | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | active | Not | busy | MT | | | | | active | | offered | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Not | active | CW | MT | | | | active | | offered | offered | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Not | Not | busy | MT | | | | active | active | | offered | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 7 | Mu | active | - | CW | MT | | | ltiparty | | | offered | offered | | | via | | | | | | | bearer A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (2-5 | | | | | | | remote | | | | | | | parties: | | | | | | | active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Not | - | Busy | MT | | | | active | | | offered | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8 | Mu | active | - | CW | MT | | | ltiparty | | | offered | offered | | | via | | | | | | | bearer A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (2-5 | | | | | | | remote | | | | | | | parties: | | | | | | | on hold) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Not | - | busy | MT | | | | active | | | offered | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 9 | 1 Speech | active | active | CW | CW | | | call | | | offered | offered | | | (active) | | | | | | | via | | | | | | | bearer A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 Data | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | | | via | | | | | | | bearer B | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | active | Not | CW | CW | | | | | active | offered | offered | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Not | active | busy | CW | | | | active | | | offered | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Not | Not | busy | busy | | | | active | active | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 10 | 1 Speech | active | active | CW | CW | | | call(on | | | offered | offered | | | hold) | | | | | | | via | | | | | | | bearer A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 Data | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | | | via | | | | | | | bearer B | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | active | Not | CW | CW | | | | | active | offered | offered | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Not | active | busy | CW | | | | active | | | offered | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Not | Not | busy | busy | | | | active | active | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 11 | 1 Speech | active | active | CW | CW | | | call(on | | | offered | offered | | | hold) | | | | | | | via | | | | | | | bearer A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 Speech | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | | | via | | | | | | | bearer A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 Data | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | | | via | | | | | | | bearer B | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | active | Not | CW | CW | | | | | active | offered | offered | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Not | active | busy | CW | | | | active | | | offered | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Not | Not | busy | busy | | | | active | active | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 12 | 2 Data | - | active | CW | CW | | | call | | | offered | offered | | | (active) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | - | Not | busy | busy | | | | | active | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 13 | 1 Speech | - | active | CW | CW | | | call(on | | | offered | offered | | | hold) | | | | | | | via | | | | | | | bearer A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2 Data | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | | | via | | | | | | | bearer A | | | | | | | and B | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | - | Not | Busy | Busy | | | | | active | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 14 | Mu | active | active | CW | CW | | | ltiparty | | | offered | offered | | | via | | | | | | | bearer A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (2-5 | | | | | | | remote | | | | | | | parties: | | | | | | | active) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 Data | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | | | via | | | | | | | bearer B | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | active | Not | CW | CW | | | | | active | offered | offered | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Not | active | busy | CW | | | | active | | | offered | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Not | Not | busy | busy | | | | active | active | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 15 | Mu | active | active | CW | CW | | | ltiparty | | | offered | offered | | | via | | | | | | | bearer A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (2-5 | | | | | | | remote | | | | | | | parties: | | | | | | | on hold) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 Data | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | (active) | | | | | | | via | | | | | | | bearer B | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | active | Not | CW | CW | | | | | active | offered | offered | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Not | active | busy | CW | | | | active | | | offered | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Not | Not | busy | busy | | | | active | active | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
#