# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The Short Message Service (SMS) has have enjoyed great success in cellular
networks. At the same time, specifications have been and are being developed
for extending 3GPP services to non-cellular IP Connectivity Access Networks
(IP-CANs). In this same spirit, this specification describes the capabilities
needed to support SMS for generic IP-CANs.
SMS over generic IP access can be used to support applications and services
that use SMS when a generic IP access is used.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the new capabilities and enhancements needed to
support SMS over a generic IP Connectivity Access Network (IP-CAN) using IMS
capabilities (TS 23.228 [9]). These include (but are not limited) to:
1 Enhancements to the HSS;
2 Communication between the SMS-GMSC/SMS-IWMSC and the HSS;
3 Authentication of service usage and registration;
4 Transfer of UE Terminated SMS, UE Originated SMS, and Delivery reports;
5 Mechanisms to handle SMS when there is more than one IP connection active
with the UE, etc.
6 Mechanisms to handle MT-SMS without MSISDN to IMS UE, and SMS between IMS
UEs that support MSISDN-less SMS operation.
The document also specifies the capabilities and enhancements needed to
support the service level interworking for the Short Message service as
defined in the TS 23.040 [2] and in this specification and the Instant
Messaging service as defined in OMA-TS-SIMPLE_IM-V1_0 [12]. The features
supported from the IM specification are limited to the exchange of short or
large immediate messages in pager mode.
NOTE: The page-mode immediate message as defined in TS 24.247[14] is
considered as a subset of OMA-TS-SIMPLE-IM-V1_0 [12].
The document also specifies the capabilities and enhancements needed to
support service level interworking for the Short Message service, as defined
in the TS 23.040 [2] and in this specification and the OMA CPM service as
defined in OMA-TS-CPM_Conv_Fnct-V1_0 [17]. The features supported from the CPM
specification are the exchange of short or large immediate messages in pager
mode, as well as session-based messaging.
The service requirements are described in TS 22.340 [18].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.040: \"Technical realization of the Short Message Service (SMS)
Point to Point (PP)\".
[3] Void.
[4] Void.
[5] Void.
[6] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[7] Void.
[8] Void.
[9] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[10] Void.
[11] Void.
[12] OMA: \"Instant Messaging using SIMPLE\", OMA-TS-SIMPLE_IM-V1_0,
http://www.openmobilealliance.org/
[13] IETF RFC 5438: \"Instant Message Disposition Notification\", February,
2009.
[14] 3GPP TS 24.247: \"Messaging service using the IP Multimedia (IM) Core
Network (CN) subsystem; Stage 3\".
[15] OMA: \"CPM Requirements\", OMA-RD-CPM-V1_0,
http://www.openmobilealliance.org/
[16] OMA: \"CPM Architecture\", OMA-AD-CPM-V1_0,
http://www.openmobilealliance.org/
[17] OMA: \"CPM Conversation Functions\", OMA-TS-CPM_Conv_Fnct-V1_0,
http://www.openmobilealliance.org/
[18] 3GPP TS 22.340: \"IP Multimedia System (IMS) messaging; Stage 1\".
[19] IETF RFC 4975: \"The Message Session Relay Protocol (MSRP)\", September
2007.
[20] 3GPP TS 23.682: \"Architecture enhancements to facilitate communications
with packet data networks and applications\".
[21] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following definitions apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if
any, in TR 21.905 [1]:
**Converged IP Messaging:** as defined in OMA-RD-CPM-V1_0 [15]. Converged IP
Messaging supports one-to-one, one-to-many personal communications, and also
communication with Applications.
**CPM Message:** as defined in OMA-RD-CPM-V1_0 [15]: Information that is sent
to one or more recipients. A CPM Message can contain several discrete Media
(e.g. text, images, audio-clips, video-clips).
**CPM AS:** An application server supporting the functionality of a CPM
Participating Function and/or a CPM Controlling Function as defined in OMA-RD-
CPM-V1_0 [15].
**IM origination:** origination of an Instant Message by an IMS UE.
**IM termination:** termination of an Instant Message by an IMS UE.
**IMS core:** refers to the core session control elements of the IM CN
Subsystem, i.e. the CSCFs, and the IBCF.
**Instant Message:** an Instant Message as defined in the OMA-TS-
SIMPLE_IM-V1_0 [12] and TS 24.247 [14]. The term Instant Message is also used
to designate a CPM Message.
**Interworking Selection Function:** as defined in OMA-AD-CPM-V1_0 [16]. The
Interworking Selection Function selects an Interworking Function that should
perform the actual interworking between CPM and SMS.
**MSISDN-less SMS operation:** operation to support SMS communication without
the need of MSISDN in the UE\'s IMS subscription profile.
**MSISDN-less Correlation ID:** information element which consists of Receiver
Identity (i.e., SIP-URI of B party), Sender Identity (i.e, SIP-URI of A
party), and HLR Identity (i.e., HLR that serves the B party).
**Non-supporting MSISDN-less SMS UE:** a UE which does not support MSISDN-less
SMS operation as defined in this specification.
**SIMPLE IM service:** the Instant Messaging Service as defined in the OMA-TS-
SIMPLE_IM-V1_0 [12].
**SM origination:** origination of a Short Message (including SMS over IP) by
an SMS capable UE, as defined in TS 23.040 [2] and this specification.
**SM termination:** termination of a Short Message (including SMS over IP) by
an SMS capable UE, as defined in TS 23.040 [2] and this specification.
**SMS:** the Short Message Service as defined in the TS 23.040 [2].
**SMSIP MESSAGE:** an immediate message as defined in TS 23.228 [9], which
encapsulates a SM in its text body.
**SMSIP UE:** a UE which supports SMSIP MESSAGE.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply:
CPM Converged IP Messaging
IM Instant Message
IMDN Instant Message Disposition Notification
IP‑SM‑GW IP-Short-Message-Gateway
ISF Interworking Selection Function
SM Short Message
# 4 Void
# 4a Architecture Requirements
## 4a.1 General
The SMS-IP architecture supports the following:
\- Notification shall be sent to the HSS that a previously unreachable UE is
now reachable.
\- Functionality is required to be able to select the domain for message
delivery between IMS and CS/PS, and to have the message delivered to the
selected domain.
\- Functionality is required to determine whether to transform the message
format or not, and to perform the transformation of the message format when
determined.
\- The interworking function shall generate the appropriate charging-related
information and provide the appropriate online charging mechanism (if it is
applied for the Short Message Service and/or SIMPLE IM services and/or CPM
based services) for the interworking services.
## 4a.2 Transport-level interworking
For transport-level interworking , the architecture allows for the following:
\- A registration and de-registration mechanism shall be supported where UEs
are required to explicitly indicate their ability to send and receive
encapsulated Short Messages.
\- It shall provide for the transport of Short Message Service TP layer PDUs
(TS 23.040 [2]) and associated RP layer information.
## 4a.3 Service-level interworking
For service-level interworking, the architecture allows for the following:
\- The service-level interworking is a value added service which requires
service subscription. In addition, it shall also take the operator\'s policy,
if available, into account, e.g. checking on the barring setting of the
subscriber to determine whether to provide this interworking or not, so the
service authorisation shall be supported before the interworking is executed.
\- The service-level interworking applies as a fallback only if the users
cannot communicate with each other using their chosen messaging service
according to the user preference and operator policy. The location of the
interworking service can be in the originating network and in the terminating
network.
\- The service-level interworking shall support interworking between OMA
SIMPLE IM service as defined in OMA-TS-SIMPLE_IM-V1_0 [12] and Short Message
Service, as defined in the TS 23.040 [2] and in the current specification.
\- The service-level interworking shall support interworking between OMA CPM
service as defined in OMA-TS-CPM_Conv_Fnct-V1_0 [17] and Short Message
Service, as defined in the TS 23.040 [2] and in the current specification.
\- The service-level interworking shall take the capability of the terminating
UE into account when possible.
\- The service level interworking shall be transparent to the end user.
\- The service-level interworking shall minimize the impact on the IMS
architecture.
\- The service-level interworking shall not impact existing functionality of
the Short Message Service as described in TS 23.040 [2] or of the SIMPLE IM
service enabler as described in OMA-TS-SIMPLE_IM-V1_0 [12] or of the CPM
service enabler as described in OMA TS CPM_Conv_Fnct-V1_0 [17]. Existing
security mechanisms for the SIMPLE IM service, the Converged IP Messaging
service and the Short Message Service shall be reused.
\- The interworking function shall be aware if the message should be
interworked or not, e.g. specific types of Short Messages such as an over the
air configuration message, shall not be interworked at service-level, but
shall be instead transported as a Short Message via IMS, CS or PS.
\- If an SMS user requests an SMS status report that the message was delivered
to the recipient, then an SMS status report shall be generated when the
message is delivered using Instant Message.
\- If an IMS user requests a notification that the message was delivered to
the recipient and the Instant Message is interworked to Short Message on the
originating side, an SMS status report shall be interworked to a delivery
notification when the message is delivered.
\- The interworking functionality shall be executed in the following cases:
\- Originating network:
\- The sender is an IM user or a CPM user who has subscribed to the
interworking function and the recipient is not routable in IMS;
\- The operator policy on the originating side has been set to send the
Instant Messages via Short Message Service.
\- Terminating network:
\- The user preferences and/or the operator policy of the recipient have been
set to receive the incoming Instant Messages via Short Message Service;
\- The received message is a Short Message and the recipient is an IM user or
a CPM user and has subscribed to the interworking service.
NOTE: For ensuring the integrity of the response messages from the IM UE or
the CPM UE, it is strongly recommended that in networks where the IP-SM-GW is
deployed, no intermediate nodes modify or terminate the message between the
IP-SM-GW and the terminating IM UE or CPM UE. If intermediate nodes are
deployed, they can send response messages that do not reflect the final
response from the IM UE or CPM UE. Final responses from the IM UE or CPM UE
are necessary to ensure correct charging and delivery reports on the Short
Message Service side.
## 4a.4 SMS without MSISDN
For SMS without MSISDN interworking, the architecture allows for the following
in addition to clause 4a.2:
\- It shall provide for the transport of Mobile Terminating Short Message
Service to UE without the need of MSISDN in the UE\'s IMS subscription
profile.
\- It shall provide for the transport of Mobile Originating Short Message
Service from IMS UE that supports MSISDN-less SMS operation to other IMS UE.
## 4a.5 SMS without MSISDN interworking with Non-supporting MSISDN-less SMS UE
This version of the specification does not require the support of SMS
communication between IMS UE that supports MSISDN-less SMS operation as
defined in this specification and non-supporting MSISDN-less SMS UE.
NOTE: It is up to implementation on the IMS network that supports the MSISDN-
less SMS operation to determine how to interwork with non-supporting MSISDN-
less SMS UE if required.
# 5 Architecture model and reference points
## 5.1 Reference architecture
Figure 5.1 below shows the overall architecture for providing SMS over a
generic IP CAN.
Figure 5.1: Architecture for providing SMS over a generic IP-CAN
NOTE: Nodes specific to the CPM functions such as ISF are either collocated
with the IP-SM-GW or else are not shown.
## 5.2 Reference points
### 5.2.1 General
The sub-sections below describe the needed enhancements and specific
considerations to existing interfaces in order to support SMS over a generic
IP-CAN.
### 5.2.2 C/S6c interface
The C or S6c interface allows the SMS-GMSC, using MAP or a Diameter based
protocol, to obtain the address of the IP-Message-GW via mechanisms described
in clause 5.3.
### 5.2.3 Interface between the IP-SM-GW and the HLR/HSS
The interface(s) between the IP-SM-GW and the HLR/HSS is used for:
\- Supporting the registration and de-registration from the IP-SM-GW to the
HLR/HSS for SMS delivery.
\- Forwarding of the Send Routeing Information for Short Message requests from
HLR/HSS to IP-SM-GW in order to return the address where the SM should be
forwarded.
\- Interrogating the HLR/HSS using Send Routeing Information for Short Message
to retrieve the IMSI and the current MSC, SGSN and/or MME addresses.
\- Informing the HLR/HSS when a memory capacity exceeded condition ceases.
\- Retrieving SMS related data from the HLR/HSS: subscriber data of the short
message service similar to the data for the current CS/PS domain and
additional service data on the service authorisation of the encapsulated short
message delivery via IMS, SC address for service-level interworking from
Instant Message to Short Message if the SC address is stored in the HLR/HSS.
Both a Sh interface and either a J or S6c interface can be deployed between
the IP-SM-GW and the HLR/HSS. During the functional allocation the change on
existing MAP functions, when used, should be minimized. The deployment of the
J or S6c interface is mandatory, since it is used for forwarding the SRI for
SM message.
### 5.2.4 E/Gd/Gdd/SGd interface
The E/Gd/Gdd/SGd interface allows the IP-SM-GW to connect to the SMS‑GMSC,
appearing to the SMS‑GMSC as an MSC, SGSN or MME.
For interworking with SMS in MME as defined in TS 23.272 [45], Annex C, an IWF
may be used as described in that clause.
For interworking with an SGSN supporting the Gdd interface, an IWF may be used
as described in TS 23.060 [21].
### 5.2.5 ISC interface
The ISC interface allows the IP-SM-GW to forward the receiving message to the
SIP based UE via IMS core.
### 5.2.6 Void
## 5.3 Functional entities
### 5.3.1 IP-Short-Message-Gateway (IP-SM-GW)
#### 5.3.1.1 General
The IP-SM-GW shall provide the protocol interworking for delivery of the short
message between the IP-based UE and the SMS-SC. The message is routed to the
SMS-SC for delivery to the SMS-based user or the message is received from the
SMS-SC of an SMS-based UE for delivery to an IP-based UE.
The general functions of the IP-SM-GW are:
\- to determine the domain (CS/PS or IMS) for delivery of a Short Message;
\- to connect to the SMS‑GMSC using established MAP or Diameter based
protocols, appearing to the SMS‑GMSC as an MSC, SGSN or MME using the E,
Gd/Gdd or SGd interfaces;
\- to respond to Send Routeing Information for Short Message requests made by
the SMS-GMSC, and forwarded from the HSS, with its own address;
\- to connect to the SMS-IWMSC using established MAP or Diameter based
protocols, appearing to the SMS-IWMSC as an MSC, SGSN or MME using the E,
Gd/Gdd or SGd interfaces;
\- to connect to the HSS using established MAP or Diameter based protocols ,
to obtain the address of MSC/SGSN/MME address(es) for SM termination in CS/PS;
NOTE: The IP-SM-GW need not support all of the functionality defined in MAP in
TS 29.002 [6].
\- to acquire and maintain knowledge of the association between the MSISDN,
IMSI and the address of the S‑CSCF serving of the user;
\- to check that it has a valid address in SMS for the sender as well as the
recipient when receiving an IMS message for an SMS user. The IP-SM-GW shall
obtain a valid address for both from the SIP headers of the IMS message (e.g.
the sender would be identified in the asserted id in form of TEL URI);
\- for terminating procedures:
\- if TEL URI is available, it maps the recipient's address from an
MSISDN/IMSI to TEL URI format when receiving an SMS for an IP-based UE, and
then it is the responsibility of the IMS core to perform any further mapping
towards a SIP URI as required;
\- if TEL URI is not available, it maps the recipient\'s address from an IMSI
to SIP URI format when receiving an SMS for an IP-based UE.
\- to act as an Application Server towards the IMS core;
\- to perform domain selection to choose the appropriate domain to deliver a
message to a recipient and to obtain the MSC, SGSN and/or MME addresses from
the HSS; and
\- to manage flags indicating user availability for SMS termination in the
HSS.
\- for MSISDN-less SMS operation:
\- if the recipient is not addressed with MSISDN but with SIP-URI, the
originating IP-SM-GW sends the SM toward to the target IMS network,
\- if delivery to target UE failed, the terminating IP-SM-GW returns MSISDN-
less correlation ID to allow the originating IMS network to retry later,
\- if originating IP-SM-GW receives temporary delivery failure with MSISDN-
less correlation ID from target IMS network, it forwards the SM along with the
MSISDN-less correlation ID to SMSC for store and forwarding.
#### 5.3.1.2 Transport-level interworking
The additional functions of the IP-SM-GW when interworking is done by carrying
encapsulated Short Messages in IMS messages are:
\- to communicate with the UE using IMS messaging as transport while
maintaining the format and functionality of the Short Message;
\- to carry the SMS status messages as encapsulated bodies of IMS messages;
\- to store the subscriber data of the short message service similar to the
data for the current CS/PS domain and to perform the short message
authorization as performed by the MSC/SGSN/MME, as well as to store additional
service data on the service authorisation of the encapsulated Short Message
delivery via IMS and to perform the service authorization.
NOTE 1: The short message subscriber data of the CS/PS domain and additional
service data on the authorisation of encapsulated Short Message delivery via
IMS are retrieved from the HLR/HSS via third party registration procedure as
specified in the clause 6.1. The IP‑SM‑GW can request the HSS to send a
notification whenever the subscriber data and/or additional service data is
updated, which the IP‑SM‑GW can then retrieve.
NOTE 2: The mechanism for prioritizing whether the short message is delivered
via a GSM/UMTS or other IP‑CAN connection when the terminal is simultaneously
connected to both access networks is outside the scope of this specification.
#### 5.3.1.3 Service-level interworking
The additional functions of the IP-SM-GW when service-level interworking is
done between Short Messages and Instant Messages in IMS are:
\- to determine whether to transform the message format or not, and to perform
the transformation of the message format when determined.
\- to use the SC address retrieved either as part of the subscriber data from
the HSS at registration or as provisioned by configuration, when transforming
the Instant Message into Short Message.
\- to perform the authorization for service-level interworking.
The additional functions of the IP-SM-GW when service-level interworking is
done between Short Messages and CPM Messages in IMS are the same as functions
performed for Instant Messages in IMS and additionally:
\- to translate a chat session invitation to a short message including
instructions for the SMS user how to react (accept/reject) the chat session
invitation, if operator policy mandates the consent of the SMS user. Otherwise
the IP-SM-GW shall respond a chat session invitation on behalf of the SMS user
(accept/reject), according to operator policy;
\- to translate the SMS user\'s answer to a chat session invitation to a
proper response for the chat session invitation request;
\- to inform SMS user about the changes of group chat session parameters;
\- to translate a chat session teardown request to a short message, if
operator policy mandates it; and
\- to translate the SMS user\'s request to leave a chat session to a proper
CPM request.
### 5.3.2 HSS
In order to support SMS over generic IP access, the HSS shall support the
following functions:
\- storing the pre-configured address of the IP-SM-GW on a subscriber basis;
NOTE: If all subscribers are assigned to a single IP‑SM‑GW address, the
IP‑SM‑GW address does not need to be pre-configured in the HSS.
\- handling an indication that the terminal is registered with an IP-SM-GW for
delivery of SMS;
\- responding to the \"send routing information for short message\" query from
IP‑SM‑GW with the address of the MSC/SGSN/MME;
\- forwarding the Send Routeing Information for Short Message, from an SMS-
GMSC, towards the IP-SM-GW and forwarding any responses to the originator of
the Send Routeing Information for Short Message;
\- returning the IMSI and the MSC, SGSN and/or MME addresses as a response to
Send Routeing Information for Short Message required from IP-SM-GW;
\- alerting the SCs stored in the message waiting data when the terminal is
registered with an IP‑SM‑GW for delivery of short message;
\- reporting notification to the IP-SM-GW of the reachability of a UE at the
transport layer after a delivery failure;
\- accepting delivery status reports from IP-SM-GWs instead of SMS-GMSC; and
# 6 Procedures
## 6.0 General
The clause describes the procedures for the support of transport-level
interworking between Short Message service and encapsulated Short Message via
IP service, for the support of the service-level interworking for the Short
Message service and Instant Messaging service as defined in OMA-TS-
SIMPLE_IM-V1_0 [12], for the support of the service-level interworking for the
Short Message service and Converged IP Messaging service as defined in OMA-TS-
CPM_Conv_Fnct-V1_0 [17] and for the support of receiving MT-SMS to a UE
without MSISDN. Clauses only applying to either transport-level interworking
or service-level interworking are indicated as such.
NOTE: In the procedures in the following clauses, the I‑CSCF, P‑CSCF and ASs
such as IM AS, as well as nodes specific to CPM functions such as ISF, are not
shown in the figures.
## 6.0a SMS without MSISDN in IMS
### 6.0a.1 MO-SMS without MSISDN in IMS
For MO-SMS without MSISDN, the IP-SM-GW of the originating side fills the RP-
OA field with a value that indicates UE is MSISDN-less to satisfy the protocol
requirement. If the originating UE does not have MSISDN or the recipient UE is
addressed with SIP-URI (i.e., recipient is not addressed with MSISDN) then IP-
SM-GW first tries to deliver the SMS directly to the terminating IMS network.
If the terminating IMS network does not accept SMS delivery without MSISDN and
responds with a permanent error indication, then IP-SM-GW shall abort any
further re-attempt and responds back to sender that SMS delivery has failed.
If the terminating IMS network indicates the SMS delivery failed due to
temporary reasons (e.g, UE is not reachable) and the response has included the
MSISDN-less correlation ID for the recipient then IP-SM-GW forwards both the
SM and MSISDN-less correlation ID to the SMSC for storage and for subsequent
retries.
### 6.0a.2 MT-SMS without MSISDN in IMS
For device triggering, the selection of IMS to deliver MT-SMS without MSISDN
is defined in TS 23.682 [20].
For SMS between IMS UEs without MSISDN, the delivery of MT-SMS to the
recipient is based on the identity from the SIP MESSAGE received from the
originating IMS network or retrieved using the MSISDN-less correlation ID from
the Forward-Short-Message received from SMSC.
This clause describes the additional functionality required for the delivery
of MT-SMS toward a UE in IMS without MSISDN.
During UE IMS registration procedure, the serving IP‑SM‑GW obtains IMSI of the
UE from the S-CSCF and the serving IP-SM-GW address is indicated to HSS as
defined in clause 6.1 and HSS stores this IP-SM-GW address. IP‑SM‑GW
subscribes to event registration package to receive UE\'s IMPU (i.e. SIP URI).
UE which does not have MSISDN will have at least one SIP-URI as IMPU. When IP-
SM-GW receives SM from SMSC with IMSI as the recipient address (i.e, device
triggering as defined in TS 23.682 [20]), IP‑SM‑GW shall try to deliver the
MT-SMS via IMS without retrying to other domain.
When IP-SM-GW receives a SM from originating IMS network via SIP MESSAGE and
IP-SM-GW failed to deliver the SM to the recipient and future retry is allowed
and possible, then IP-SM-GW shall return a MSISDN-less correlation ID along
with an indication of temporary error pointing to unsuccessful delivery
attempt to the originating IMS network. This MSISDN-less Correlation ID
includes sender\'s SIP URI, recipient\'s SIP URI, and HLR-Id which identifies
receiver\'s HLR.
## 6.1 Registration procedure
Figure 6.1: Registration procedure
1) The UE establishes IP connection.
2) At any time after the establishment of the IP connection, the UE registers
at the S-CSCF according to the IMS registration procedures.
NOTE 1: For simplicity, not all messages between UE and S-CSCF and between
S-CSCF and HSS are shown in detail.
3) S-CSCF checks the initial filter criteria retrieved from the HSS during the
IMS registration procedure.
4) After successful IMS registration and based on the retrieved initial filter
criteria, the S-CSCF informs the IP-SM-GW (AS) about the registration of the
user. IMSI is informed to the IP‑SM‑GW (AS) when there is no MSISDN in the
UE\'s IMS subscription profile.
5) The IP-SM-GW (AS) returns OK to the S-CSCF.
6) The IP-SM-GW (AS) sends IP-SM-GW Register Req to the HSS.
7) The HSS stores the received IP-SM-GW address if necessary or for MT-SMS
without MSISDN (see clause 6.0a.2), uses it as an indication that the UE is
available to be accessed via the IMS to trigger an Alert service centre
message if the message waiting flag is set, and responses to the IP-SM-GW (AS)
with IP‑SM‑GW Register Res. IP‑SM‑GW gets the IMPU (SIP URI) for SMS delivery
without TEL-URI from registration event package.
NOTE 2: IP-SM-GW Register Res can include the SC address to be used for this
user in the subscriber data (see also clause 6.7).
NOTE 3: If the IP‑SM‑GW address stored in the HSS via registration procedure
is not the same as the preconfigured IP‑SM‑GW address (if any), then the short
message delivery attempted during registration can be unnecessarily delayed.
8) After successful registration of the IP‑SM‑GW address at the HSS the HSS
checks whether message waiting data are stored and alerts all SCs using
procedures described in TS 23.040 [2] (see also clause 6.5b).
## 6.2 De-registration procedure
### 6.2.1 UE initiated
Figure 6.2: UE initiated de-registration procedure
1) At any time after the registration procedure, the UE may initiate a de-
registration procedure. The UE sends a De-Register request (Register request
with Expires header having value 0) to the S-CSCF.
2) S-CSCF responds to the UE with OK.
3) S-CSCF checks the initial filter criteria retrieved from the HSS during the
IMS registration procedure.
4) Based on initial filter criteria the S-CSCF informs the IP-SM-GW (AS) about
the de-registration of the user.
5) The IP-SM-GW (AS) returns OK to the S-CSCF.
6) The IP-SM-GW (AS) de-registers the UE at the HSS sending a De-register Req.
7) The HSS de-registers the UE and responds to the IP-SM-GW (AS) with De-
register Res.
NOTE: The pre-configured IP‑SM‑GW address in the HSS, if any, is not removed,
as it is used for subsequent SM termination.
### 6.2.2 Network initiated
Figure 6.2a: Network initiated de-registration procedure
1) After receiving a trigger (e.g. De-Register message from the S‑CSCF), the
IP‑SM‑GW shall de-register the IP‑SM‑GW of a subscriber from the HSS sending a
De-Register Req.
2) The HSS de-registers the UE and responds to the IP‑SM‑GW (AS) with
De‑register Res.
## 6.3 Transport-level interworking: Successful encapsulated Short Message
origination procedure with MSISDN
Figure 6.3: Successful encapsulated Short Message origination procedure
1) The UE registers to S-CSCF according the IMS registration procedure. Note
that I-CSCF and P-CSCF are not shown in this figure.
2) UE submits the encapsulated Short Message (SMS-SUBMIT, SC Address) to the
S-CSCF using an appropriate SIP method.
3) S-CSCF forwards the encapsulated Short Message (SMS- SUBMIT, SC Address) to
IP-SM-GW (AS) based on stored iFC.
4) IP-SM-GW (AS) acknowledges the SIP message.
5) SIP message acknowledge is forwarded by S-CSCF to UE.
6) The IP-SM-GW performs service authorization based on the stored subscriber
data as described in the clause 6.1. The IP‑SM‑GW shall check whether the
subscriber is authorised to use the short message service (e.g. Operator
Determined Barring settings), similar to the authorization performed by
MSC/SGSN in case the Short Message is delivered via CS or PS domain. In
addition, the IP-SM-GW shall also check whether the user is authorised to use
the encapsulated Short Message delivery via IMS. If the result of service
authorization is negative, the IP-SM-GW shall not forward the message, and
shall return the appropriate error information to the UE in a failure report.
Otherwise, the IP-SM-GW (AS) extracts the Short Message (SMS- SUBMIT) and
forwards it towards the SMS-SC (SC Address) via the SMS-IWMSC using standard
MAP or Diameter based (SGd/Gdd) signalling (as described in TS 23.040 [2]).
7) The SMS-IWMSC forwards the Short Message (SMS-SUBMIT) to the SMS-SC (see TS
23.040 [2]).
8) SMS-SC sends a Submit report (SMS-SUBMIT‑REPORT) to SMS-IWMSC (see TS
23.040 [2]).
9) SMS-IWMSC sends the Submit report to IP-SM-GW (AS) (see TS 23.040 [2]).
10) IP-SM-GW (AS) sends the Submit report to S-CSCF, encapsulated in an
appropriate SIP request.
11) The S-CSCF sends the Submit report to the UE.
12) The UE acknowledges the SIP request.
13) The S-CSCF forwards the acknowledgement of the SIP request to IP-SM-GW
(AS).
## 6.3a Transport-level interworking: Short Message origination procedure
without MSISDN
### 6.3a.1 Initial delivery of SMS without MSISDN
Figure 6.3a.1 shows the initial SM delivery by IP-SM-GW during MO-SMS
operation without MSISDN.
Figure 6.3a.1: Short Message origination procedure for MSISDN-less operation
1) The UE-A registers to S-CSCF according the IMS registration procedure. Note
that I-CSCF and P-CSCF are not shown in this figure.
2) UE-A submits the encapsulated Short Message (SMS-SUBMIT, SC Address) to the
S-CSCF using an appropriate SIP method. Since recipient does not have MSISDN,
the UE-A fills the TP-DA field with value that indicates recipient UE is
addressed without MSISDN, and indicates recipient\'s SIP URI in SIP MESSAGE
(e.g. UE-A sets the R-URI to PSI (SMSC address) and the To header with
recipient\'s SIP URI in the MESSAGE). Based on the existing procedure, P-CSCF
fills the UE-A\'s default URI to p-asserted-identity before sending the
MESSAGE to S-CSCF.
NOTE: It is up to stage 3 to define how recipient\'s SIP URI is to be
indicated in the protocol level.
3) S-CSCF forwards the encapsulated Short Message (SMS-SUBMIT, SC Address) to
IP-SM-GW (AS) based on stored iFC.
4) IP-SM-GW (AS) acknowledges the SIP message.
5) SIP message acknowledge is forwarded by S-CSCF to UE-A.
6) The IP-SM-GW performs service authorization based on the stored subscriber
data as described in the clause 6.1. The IP SM GW shall check whether the
subscriber is authorised to use the short message service (e.g. Operator
Determined Barring settings), similar to the authorization performed by
MSC/SGSN in case the Short Message is delivered via CS or PS domain. In
addition, the IP-SM-GW shall also check whether the user is authorised to use
the encapsulated Short Message delivery via IMS. If the result of service
authorization is negative, the IP-SM-GW shall not forward the message, and
shall return the appropriate error information to the UE in a failure report.
Otherwise, the IP-SM-GW (AS) extracts the Short Message (SMS-SUBMIT) and
constructs the SMS-DELIVER and sends it towards the terminating IMS network.
7) The terminating IMS network tries to deliver the SM toward the designated
recipient (see clause 6.4a).
8) Terminating IMS network response with one of the following:
8a) Terminating IMS network refuses or does not allow SMS delivery with
MSISDN-less operation by sending back a permanent error.
8b) Terminating IMS network is not able to deliver the SM to designated
recipient and returns a MSISDN-less correlation ID to allow retries at a later
time. IP-SM-GW then forwards the SM to SMSC for storage and forward operation
(see clause 6.3a.2).
8c) Terminating IMS network is successfully deliver the SM toward the
designated recipient.
9) Proper response as determined in step 8a, 8b, or 8c is returned back to
UE-A. For 8a, the response indicates to the UE-A that SMS to this recipient is
failed permanently. For 8b, the response is the Submit report received from
the SMSC. For 8c, the response indicates a successful delivery of the SM to
the recipient.
### 6.3a.2 Subsequent re-delivery of SMS without MSISDN
When the initial delivery attempt failed and retry is possible (see Figure
6.3a.1 step 8b), the IP-SM-GW forwards the SM to SMS-SC for storage and
forwarding operation. Figure 6.3a.2 shows the subsequent re-delivery attempt
of SM by SMS-SC.
Figure 6.3a.2: Redelivery attempt of SM without MSISDN
1) IP-SM-GW forwards the SM along with the MSISDN-less correlation ID received
in step 8b of figure 6.3a.1 to SMS-SC/SMS-IWMSC.
2a) SMS-SC/SMS-GMSC receives a trigger to re-deliver the SMS from HSS (see
clause 6.5b) and queries the HSS for serving node information using the
recipient\'s SIP URI and HLR-id from the MSISDN-less correlation ID.
2b) SMS-GMSC forwards the SM along with the MSISDN-less correlation ID to the
IP-SM-GW using the address (i.e, IP-SM-GW of UE-B) received from HSS in step
2a.
3) IP-SM-GW (terminating) delivers SM to UE-B via the SIP MESSAGE.
## 6.4 Transport-level interworking: Successful encapsulated Short Message
termination procedure from SMS-GMSC
Figure 6.4: Successful encapsulated Short Message termination procedure
1) The UE registers to the S-CSCF according to the IMS registration procedure.
2) The SMS-SC forwards the Short Message (SMS‑DELIVER) to the SMS-GMSC.
3) Steps 3a to 3c are performed if SMS GMSC interrogates the HSS with MSISDN.
For MT-SMS without MSISDN as defined in clause 6.0a, step 3d is performed if
an IP-SM-GW address is available and need not be retrieved, and steps 3e to 3f
are performed if an IP-SM-GW address needs to be retrieved.
3a) The SMS‑GMSC interrogates the HSS (using MSISDN) to retrieve routeing
information. Based on the pre-configured IP-SM-GW address for the user, the
HSS forwards the request to the corresponding IP-SM-GW.
NOTE 1: The Send Routeing Info for SM request is not forwarded if it has been
sent originally from the IP‑SM‑GW.
NOTE 2: If there is only a single IP‑SM‑GW address, the IP‑SM‑GW address does
not need to be pre-configured in the HSS, the Send Routeing Info for SM
request can be forwarded on the STP level.
3b) The HLR/HSS returns the addresses of the current MSC, SGSN or MME to the
IP‑SM‑GW for delivery of the Short Message in CS/PS domain. The HLR/HSS also
returns the IMSI, for the IP‑SM‑GW to correlate the receipt of Short Message
from the MT Correlation ID within the IMSI field of the Forward Short Message.
3c) The IP SM GW creates a MT Correlation ID as per TS 23.040 [2] which
associates the Send Routeing Info for SM with the subsequent Forward Short
Message messages(s), and stores this along with the IMSI of the receiving
subscriber. The IP-SM-GW returns only one address, which is of itself, along
with the MT Correlation ID as routeing information to the SMS-GMSC.
NOTE 3: For the case where the IP‑SM‑GW address is not pre-configured in the
HSS, the Send Routeing Info for SM request will be forwarded on the STP level,
the IP-SM-GW returns the address of itself as routeing information to SMS-GMSC
upon receipt of the forwarded Send Routeing info for SM request.
3d) Interrogation is skipped in the context of T4 device triggering if an up
to date IP-SM-GW address is already available at the SMS-SC/SMS-GMSC.
3e) The SMS GMSC interrogates the HSS (using IMSI) to retrieve routeing
information.
3f) HLR/HSS returns the addresses of IP-SM-GW, MSC (MME), and/or SGSN. If IMS
is to be used for MT-SMS then continue with step 4.
4) If steps 3a to 3c have been taken, SMS-GMSC delivers the Short Message
(SMS‑DELIVER) to IP-SM-GW (AS) including the MT Correlation ID received from
the IP‑SM‑GW, in the same manner that it delivers the Short Message to an MSC,
SGSN or MME. Otherwise, SMS-GMSC delivers the Short Message (SMS DELIVER) to
IP-SM-GW (AS) including the IMSI.
5) The IP‑SM‑GW performs service authorization based on the stored subscriber
data described in the clause 6.1. The IP‑SM‑GW shall check whether the
subscriber is authorised to use the short message service (e.g. Operator
Determined Barring settings), similar to the authorization performed by
MSC/SGSN/MME in case the Short Message is delivered via CS or PS domain. In
addition, the IP‑SM‑GW shall also check whether the subscriber is authorised
to use the encapsulated Short Message delivery via IMS. If the result of
service authorization is negative, the IP‑SM‑GW shall not forward the message,
and shall return the appropriate error information to the SMS-SC in a failure
report. Domain selection function is not performed for MT-SMS without MSISDN
(i.e. when IMSI is received in step 4) and IMS is used for delivery. Otherwise
(i.e. when a MT Correlation ID is received in step 4), the IP-SM-GW performs
domain selection function to determine the preferred domain for delivering the
message according to operator policy and user preferences. The logic for
selecting preferred route for message delivery is a matter of implementation.
6) If the preferred domain is IMS, the IP-SM-GW (AS) uses the TEL-URI
associated with the IMSI of the message received for the target UE to send the
Short Message (SMS‑DELIVER, SC Address) encapsulated in the appropriate SIP
method towards the S-CSCF. If TEL URI is not available, SIP URI is used.
7) S-CSCF forwards the encapsulated Short Message (SMS-DELIVER, SC Address) to
the UE.
8) The UE acknowledges the SIP request.
NOTE 4: This is not yet the Delivery report.
9) The S-CSCF forwards the acknowledgement of the SIP request to the IP-SM-GW
(AS).
## 6.4a Transport-level interworking: Short Message termination procedure
without MSISDN from IMS network
Figure 6.4a: Short Message termination procedure without MSISDN
1) The UE-B registers to the S-CSCF according to the IMS registration
procedure.
2) The originating IMS network which received the SM from the UE-A forwards
the Short Message (SMS-DELIVER) to the terminating IMS network. It reaches the
IP-SM-GW responsible for UE-B. For brevity, the intermediate IMS nodes
interactions prior to reaching IP-SM-GW are not shown.
3) If local policy allows MSISDN-less SMS operation, IP-SM-GW tries to deliver
the SM to UE-B.
4a-4b) SM is successfully delivered to UE-B. A success Delivery report is sent
to the originating IMS network.
5a) If IP-SM-GW tried to deliver the SM but encountered some error (e.g. UE is
memory full, UE not reachable, etc) then:
5b) IP-SM-GW returns a MSISDN-less Correlation ID to originating IMS network
along with an indication of temporary failure.
6a-6b) if the IP-SM-GW refuses the MSISDN-less SMS operation due to local
policy or other permanent errors (e.g. protocol error), IP-SM-GW returns a
permanent error indication to the originating IMS network.
## 6.5 Transport-level interworking: Delivery Report procedure
Figure 6.5: Delivery report procedure
1) The UE has received the Short Message as described in clause 6.4 or clause
6.4a.
2) The UE sends a Delivery report (SMS‑DELIVER‑REPORT) to the S-CSCF,
including either a positive or a negative acknowledgement to the Short Message
received in step 1.
3) The S-CSCF forwards the Delivery report to the IP-SM-GW (AS). It shall be
ensured that the Delivery report reaches the same IP-SM-GW that forwarded the
Short Message in step 1.
4) IP-SM-GW (AS) acknowledges, at the SIP level, the Delivery report to
S-CSCF.
NOTE: This is the acknowledgement to the Forward Short Message in the SM
termination procedure.
5) S-CSCF forwards the SIP acknowledgement to the Delivery report to the UE.
6) The IP-SM-GW (AS) sends a Delivery report to the SMS-GMSC or to originating
IMS network for MSISDN-less SMS operation.
7) The IP-SM-GW may send a Report SM Delivery Status to the HSS. This may
trigger the Alert service centre procedure or an update of the message waiting
data in the HSS as described in TS 23.040 [2], if necessary.
8) The SMS-GMSC may send a Report SM Delivery Status to the HSS. The HSS shall
ignore the information provided in this report.
## 6.5a Unsuccessful SM termination procedure
When a Short Message fails to reach the UE via the selected domain, a failure
delivery report is returned to the IP‑SM‑GW. The IP‑SM‑GW takes responsibility
to re-attempt the delivery of the message in another domain which is listed in
the sequence of the priority in the IP‑SM‑GW while the domain selection is
performed during the SM termination procedure. If the message successfully
reaches the UE after re-delivery, the IP‑SM‑GW forwards the received
successful Delivery report to the SMS‑GMSC. Otherwise, if the message still
fails after the IP‑SM‑GW has tried all selectable domains, the IP-SM-GW
forwards the received unsuccessful Delivery report to the SMS‑GMSC and sends
Report SM Delivery Status message to the HLR/HSS. The HLR/HSS then records the
corresponding Messages Waiting Data (MWD), and an Alert service centre
procedure may be initiated as described in clause 6.5b or 6.6.
The order in which domains are selected for message delivery by the IP‑SM‑GW
is subject to operator policy and/or user preferences and any known or assumed
timer values in the SMS-GMSC for the Forward Short Message message (see NOTE
1).
The following flow shows only an example order of selected domains, i.e. the
IMS is the preferred domain, followed by the PS domain, and finally the CS
domain.
NOTE 1: If the timer at the SMS-GMSC has been configured to a short value
(near to the minimum value), the IP‑SM‑GW may not have sufficient time to try
the message delivery in all three domains. This problem can be resolved by
several implementation solutions, e.g. re-configuring the SMS-GMSC timer to be
longer, enhancing the IP-SM-GW to try the delivery only in two or one
domain(s).
Figure 6.5a: Unsuccessful SM termination procedure
1) As described in clause 6.4, the Short Message is routed to the UE via
S‑CSCF after the domain selection is performed in the IP‑SM‑GW and all the
available domains have been listed in the sequence of the priority in the
IP‑SM‑GW. The message fails to reach the UE, e.g. due to the UE not being
reachable in IMS, or exceeded memory capacity of the UE.
2) The S‑CSCF sends an appropriate failure message according to normal IMS
procedure as defined in TS 23.228 [9], and sends it to the IP‑SM‑GW (AS)
including an appropriate error value. This Delivery report is an
acknowledgement to the Short Message received by the S-SCSF in step 1.
NOTE 2: When the failure message is sent from the UE, e.g. the UE notifies the
network that the UE has been unable to accept a Short Message because its
memory capacity has been exceeded, the S‑CSCF forwards the failure message to
the IP‑SM‑GW (AS).
3) IP‑SM‑GW (AS) acknowledges the failure message to S‑CSCF.
4) The IP‑SM‑GW verifies the error cause of the failure delivery report. If
the error is due to exceeded memory capacity of the UE, the IP‑SM‑GW forwards
the Delivery report (SMS‑DELIVER‑REPORT) back to the SMS-GMSC and the
procedure continues as described in step 10. Otherwise, the IP‑SM‑GW forwards
the Short Message to the domain which is listed in the second place in its
priority list. It is supposed that the SGSN is selected.
5) The SGSN delivers the message to the UE but the message fails to reach the
UE, e.g. the UE is not reachable in PS domain.
NOTE 3: If the delivery succeeds in the PS domain at this point, the procedure
for successful message delivery over PS domain is described in clause 6.4.
6) The SGSN generates a Delivery report (SMS‑DELIVER‑REPORT) and sends it to
the IP‑SM‑GW, including an appropriate error value. This Delivery report is an
acknowledgement to the Short Message received by the SGSN in step 5.
7) The IP-SM-GW forwards the Short Message to the domain which is listed in
the third place in its priority list. It is supposed that the MSC is selected.
8) The MSC delivers the message to the UE but the message fails to reach the
UE, e.g. the UE is not reachable in CS domain.
NOTE 4: If the delivery succeeds in the CS domain at this point, the procedure
for successful message delivery over CS domain is described in clause 6.4.
9) The MSC generates a Delivery report (SMS‑DELIVER‑REPORT) and sends it to
the IP‑SM‑GW, including an appropriate error value. This Delivery report is an
acknowledgement to the Short Message received by the MSC in step 9.
10) The IP-SM-GW forwards the Short Message to the domain which is listed in
the forth place in its priority list. It is supposed that the MME is selected.
11) The MME deliveres the message to the UE but the message fails to reach the
UE, e.g., the UE is not reachable in PS domain.
12) The MME generates a Delivery report(SMS-DELIVER-REPORT) and sends it to
the IP-SM-GW, including an appropriate error value. This Delivery report is an
acknowledgement to the Short Message received by the MME in step 11.
13) The IP‑SM‑GW sends a Delivery report to the SMS‑GMSC.
NOTE 5: The SMS-GMSC is aware of the availability of the UE on only one domain
(see clause 6.4), and so will not attempt redelivery to another domain after
receiving a failure report.
14) The IP-SM-GW sends a Report SM Delivery Status to the HSS with accurate
results from different domains. The HSS records the corresponding MWD, i.e.
the SMS‑SC address which stores the un-delivered message and the failure
reason which indicates that the message failed to be sent by IP‑SM‑GW due to
the UE not being available or the memory capacity of the UE being exceeded.
15) The IP-SM-GW subscribes to the HSS for a one-time notification of the UE
being reachable again. The HSS records the subscription and instructs the
transport layer to report when the UE is reachable.
16) The SMS-GMSC sends a Report SM Delivery Status to the HSS. The HSS shall
ignore the information provided in this report.
## 6.5b Alert Service Centre procedure when UE is available
When a Short Message is received in the IP-SM-GW for delivery to an IMS
subscriber, the IP-SM-GW shall verify the registration status of the UE. If
the UE is not registered in IMS, or is registered in IMS but does not
advertise the Converged IP Messaging, SIMPLE IM or SMSIP capability, the Short
Message shall not be interworked; neither at service level nor at transport
level. Based on operator policy and user preferences, either the message is
sent over CS/PS or an error indication is sent back to the SMS-SC. In the
latter case, when the UE registers in IMS advertising the Converged IP
Messaging, SIMPLE IM and/or the SMSIP capability at a later time, this
information is sent to the SMS-SC and the delivery is attempted at that time,
as an Instant Message or an encapsulated Short Message as appropriate.
NOTE: The service level or transport level interworking of a message is
prohibited as identified in the above scenario in order to prevent the
possibility of the message being deferred in the terminating network.
If the HLR/HSS has recorded the MWD with a failure reason that the message
failed to be sent by IP‑SM‑GW due to the UE not being available, once the
HLR/HSS receives a message from any of the domains indicating that the UE is
available again, e.g. IMSI attached, or IMS registered, the HLR/HSS initiates
an Alert service centre procedure to request the SMS-SC to re-send the stored
message.
The following figure shows an example of how a deferred message is re-
transmitted to an IMS UE upon the UE availability.
Figure 6.5b: Alert service centre procedure when UE is available
1) The message is transmitted from SMS‑SC to IP‑SM‑GW for delivery to the
subscriber, possibly after transport-level and/or service-level interworking.
Prior to this interworking, the IP‑SM‑GW shall check for UE availability. If
the UE is not registered in IMS, and delivery over CS/PS is unsuccessful (see
clause 6.5a), the IP‑SM‑GW returns an appropriate error response to SMS‑SC.
The SMS-SC then informs the HSS/HLR about the unavailability of the UE. After
an unsuccessful SM termination procedure due to the UE being unavailable, the
HSS records the MWD i.e. the SMS‑SC address which stores the un-delivered
message and the failure reason which indicates that the message failed to be
sent by IP‑SM‑GW due to the UE not being available, for a subsequent Alert
service centre procedure.
At any time after the unsuccessful SM termination procedure, the UE may attach
in the PS and or CS domain again, in which case a Ready for SM message from
the SGSN, MSC or MME is sent to the HLR/HSS as described in TS 23.040 [2]. The
HLR/HSS initiates an Alert service centre procedure to the SM‑IWMSC when the
user\'s MWD is not NULL, and the procedure continues as described in step 3.
2) At any time after the unsuccessful SM termination procedure, the status of
the UE may indicate that the UE is available due to, e.g. registration in IMS
(step 2a). At that point UE-Not-Reachable-for-IP (UNRI) is updated in HLR/HSS,
as described in TS 23.040 [2]. After the IMS registration is finished, the
procedure continues as described in step 3.
At any time after the unsuccessful SM termination procedure, the HSS can
receive a notification from the transport layer e.g. MME that the UE is
reachable again (step 2b). As the IP-SM-GW has subscribed to the event as
described in clause 6.5a, the HSS shall notify the IP-SM-GW of the UE being
reachable again (step 2c). If the UE is already registered in IMS, the IP-SM-
GW shall then send a Ready for SM message to the HLR/HSS (step 2d) and the
procedure continues as described in step 3. Otherwise, the IP-SM-GW discards
the notification message. The procedure will resume when one of the conditions
described in steps 1 and 2 is fulfilled.
3) The HLR/HSS checks the user\'s MWD. If MWD is not Null, the HLR/HSS
initiates an Alert service centre message to the SMS‑IWMSC.
4) The SMS‑IWMSC forwards the Alert service centre procedure to the responding
SMS‑SC.
5) Upon receipt of the Alert service centre message, the SMS‑SC re-attempts to
send the stored Short Message. The message is transmitted to IP-SM-GW and
thereafter to the UE after appropriate interworking (transport-level and/or
service-level interworking) is performed. The UE acknowledges the reception of
the message.
## 6.6 Transport-level interworking: Alert service centre procedure when
memory capacity is available
If the HLR/HSS has recorded the MWD with a failure reason that the message
failed to be sent by IP‑SM‑GW due to the memory capacity of the UE is
exceeded, once the HLR/HSS receives a message from any of the domain
indicating that the memory capacity of the UE is available again, e.g. form
the IMS, PS or CS domain, the HLR/HSS initiates a Alert service centre
procedure to request the SMSC to re-send the stored message.
The following figure only shows an example where the HLR/HSS invokes the Alert
service centre procedure when the memory capacity available message is
received from IMS.
Figure 6.6: Alert service centre procedure when memory capacity is available
1) If SM termination attempts (via IP-SM-GW) failed because the UE's Memory
Capacity Exceeded, the message to be transferred to IP Based UE is queued in
the SMS-SC.
2) UE sends a message to IP-SM-GW indicating that the UE has memory available
to receive one or more Short Messages.
3) IP-SM-GW notifies the HLR/HSS of memory being available in the UE.
4) If the HLR/HSS receives the indication that the UE has memory available to
receive one or more Short Messages, it initiates a Alert service centre
procedure with the SC address and the MSIsdn‑Alert to SMS‑IWMSC as described
in TS 23.040 [2].
5) The SMS‑IWMSC forwards the Alert service centre message to the SMS-SC whose
address was provided by the HLR/HSS in step 4.
## 6.7 Service-level Interworking: IM or CPM capable UE sends an Instant
Message to an SMS user
Figure 6.7: Successful IM origination to SMS procedure
1) The UE registers to S-CSCF according the IMS registration procedure.
2) UE submits the Instant Message to the S-CSCF using an appropriate SIP
method. The UE may request to hide its Public User Identity from the recipient
within the Instant Message, as described in OMA‑TS‑SIMPLE_IM‑V1_0 [12] or in
OMA-TS-CPM_Conv_Fnct-V1_0 [17].
3) S-CSCF forwards the Instant Message to IP-SM-GW based on stored iFC.
NOTE 1: Subscribers with no subscription for service level interworking will
not be provided with the relevant iFCs.
4) The IP-SM-GW shall decide whether to perform service-level interworking
depending on SIP request header (e.g. Request-URI), operator policy, when the
Instant Message is not routable in the IMS. If an ISF is deployed in the
network, the ISF may take the decision to interwork using SMS and sends the
message to the IP-SM-GW to perform the interworking. If IP-SM-GW decided to
perform service-level interworking, the IP-SM-GW performs service
authorization based on the stored subscriber data retrieved from the HLR/HSS
at the time of the registration procedure as specified in clause 6.1. The IP-
SM-GW shall check whether the originating subscriber is authorised to use the
interworking service. If the result of service authorization is negative, the
IP-SM-GW shall not forward the message, and shall return the appropriate error
information to the UE in a failure report. Otherwise, the IP-SM-GW shall use
the SC Address in the subscriber data retrieved from the HSS at registration
or provisioned by configuration and translates the Instant Message to a Short
Message (SMS- SUBMIT) carrying SC Address, then forwards it towards SMS-SC (SC
Address) via the SMS-IWMSC (as described in TS 23.040 [2]). If the size of the
content of the Instant Message is larger than the size of the content that one
Short Message could transfer, the IP-SM-GW shall split the content of the
Instant Message into several parts, translate them to concatenated Short
Messages, and forward the concatenated Short Messages to the SMS-SC as
described in TS 23.040 [2]. If the sender of the Instant Message requests to
hide its Public User Identity from the recipient and operator policy allows
for this, the IP-SM-GW shall anonymize the identity of the user to the
recipient. Otherwise, if operator policy prohibits this, the IP SM GW shall
return an appropriate error to the user.
5) If service authorization is successful, the IP-SM-GW acknowledges the
Instant Message.
6) Instant Message acknowledgement is forwarded by S-CSCF to UE.
NOTE 2: Steps 5 and 6 can occur anytime after the subscriber authorization
check has been performed by the IP‑SM‑GW.
7) The SMS-IWMSC forwards the Short Message (SMS- SUBMIT) to the SMS-SC (see
TS 23.040 [2]).
8) The SMS-SC sends a Submit report (SMS-SUBMIT REPORT) to the SMS-IWMSC (see
TS 23.040 [2]).
9) SMS-IWMSC sends a Submit report to IP-SM-GW (see TS 23.040 [2]).
NOTE 3: The procedure can end in step 9. Steps 10 to 13 occur only if the IM
user requested a processing notification in the Instant Message sent in step
2, as described in IETF IMDN RFC 5438 [13].
10) IP-SM-GW translates the received Submit report to an appropriate Instant
Message, and forwards it to the S‑CSCF. If the IP‑SM‑GW sent concatenated
Short Messages to SMS-SC in step 4, the IP‑SM‑GW should wait for the last
Submit report, and translate the last Submit report to an appropriate Instant
Message, and forward it to the S‑CSCF.
11) S-CSCF sends the translated Instant Message to the UE.
12) UE acknowledges the translated Instant Message.
13) Acknowledgement of the translated Instant Message is forwarded by S-CSCF
to IP-SM-GW.
## 6.8 Interaction between transport-level and service-level Interworking
### 6.8.1 General
The interaction between transport-level interworking (between SMS over CS/PS
and SMS over IMS) and service-level interworking (between Instant Messaging
and SMS) depends on the user subscription and authorisation, on the UE
capabilities, and on operator policy.
If a user is only subscribed to either transport-level interworking or
service-level interworking, only procedures defined for the subscribed
interworking may be performed.
If a user is subscribed to both transport-level interworking and service-level
interworking, but the user is only authorised for one of the interworking when
the message is processed, only the authorised interworking may be performed.
If a user is subscribed to both transport-level interworking and service-level
interworking, and is authorised for both, the behaviour of the IP-SM-GW
depends on the specific scenario, on the registered capabilities of the UE,
and finally is defined by operator policy and user preferences.
For a user subscribed to service-level interworking, two Application Servers
in the network are normally called upon to handle an Instant Message:
\- the IM AS, defined in OMA-TS-SIMPLE_IM-V1_0 [12] or the CPM AS, defined in
OMA-TS-CPM_Conv_Fnct-V1_0 [17].
\- the IP-SM-GW.
The following clauses describe the different interaction scenarios.
### 6.8.2 IMS Originating
In the originating network, a UE sends a SIP MESSAGE (Encapsulated Short
Message or Instant Message). The originating S‑CSCF forwards the SIP MESSAGE
to the IP-SM-GW based on the iFC. The subscription of the transport level
interworking and the service level interworking applies for different iFC.
However, the SIP MESSAGE is forwarded to the IP-SM-GW if the user subscribes
to one of the interworking services. If there is no subscription for the
interworking service, the S‑CSCF continues with the subsequent iFC check.
After all the originating iFC triggers have been handled, the S‑CSCF attempts
to route the message to the terminating IMS network. If it fails, an error is
returned to the sender.
NOTE 1: if an IM AS or a CPM AS is present in the network, Instant Messages
are routed to it before going to the IP-SM-GW.
NOTE 2: An encapsulated Short Message uses the PSI of the SC as the Request-
URI. If the user is not subscribed to transport-level interworking and the IP-
SM-GW is not invoked, the ENUM query fails, and an error is returned to the
sender.
When the IP-SM-GW receives the SIP MESSAGE, it shall decide which interworking
should be performed based on the content of the received SIP MESSAGE, as the
IP-SM-GW can distinguish between an encapsulated Short Message and an Instant
Message. If an encapsulated Short Message is received and if the subscriber is
authorised for the service, the IP-SM-GW maps the encapsulated Short Message
to a Short Message. Similarly, when an Instant Message is received, the IP-SM-
GW considers performing the service-level interworking if the service is
authorized: the IP‑SM‑GW shall decide whether to send the SIP MESSAGE via
interworking service based on SIP request header (e.g., R‑URI), operator
policy, when the Instant Message is not routeable in the IMS or when the IP-
SM-GW is selected to handle the message.
Figure 6.8.2.1: Performing interworking service on originating side
### 6.8.3 IMS Terminating
When the IP-SM-GW receives a Short Message from the legacy network on the
terminating side, it performs the domain selection to determine the preferred
domain to transfer the short message. If the selected network is IMS, the IP-
SM-GW will determine whether the transport level interworking or the service
level interworking is to be preformed based on the users\' subscription and
authorisation, and on the UE capability as indicated during IMS registration.
If the user has subscribed to both services, is authorised for both and the UE
has indicated its capability to receive both encapsulated Short Messages and
Instant messages, the priority between the transport-level interworking and
the service-level interworking is based on operator policy and user
preferences.
NOTE 1: If the incoming Short Message is interworked to an Instant Message,
the resulting Instant Message could be routed to the IM AS or CPM AS before
being sent to the UE.
Figure 6.8.3.1: Performing interworking service on terminating side for an
incoming Short Message
When the IP-SM-GW receives an Instant Message, based on user subscription and
authorisation for service-level interworking, on operator policy and user
preferences, and on UE capability indicated during IMS registration, the
IP‑SM‑GW may perform service-level interworking to transform the message
format to SMS and deliver the message to the UE. If the user is subscribed and
authorised for transport-level interworking, and based on UE capability
indicated during IMS registration, and on operator policy and user
preferences, the message may be delivered as an encapsulated Short Message to
the UE over IMS. Otherwise, the Short Message is delivered over CS/PS.
## 6.9 Service-level Interworking: Concatenated Short Messages delivered as a
large Instant Message
An IMS registered user with IM service or CPM service receives a concatenated
short message delivered as two or more short messages. The information below
describes the behaviour when the received concatenated Short Message exceeds
the maximum payload size of an Instant Message.
Figure 6.9: Concatenated Short Messages delivered as an IM large message
1) The UE registers to the S-CSCF according to the IMS registration procedure.
2) The SMS-SC forwards a Short Message that is part of a concatenation of two
or more Short Messages to the SMS-GMSC.
3a) The SMS GMSC interrogates the HSS to retrieve routeing information. Based
on the pre-configured IP-SM-GW address for the user, the HSS forwards the
request to the corresponding IP-SM-GW.
3b) The HLR/HSS returns the IMSI and the address(es) of the current MSC, SGSN
and/or MME to the IP-SM-GW for delivery of the SMS SM in CS/PS domain.
3c) The IP-SM-GW creates a MT Correlation ID as per TS 23.040 [2], which
associates the Routeing Info retrieval with the subsequent Forward Short
Message messages(s), and stores this along with the IMSI of the receiving
subscriber. The IP-SM-GW returns to the SMS-GMSC the address of itself, along
with the MT Correlation ID in the IMSI field, as routeing information.
Alternatively, the IP-SM-GW may return the address(es) of the current MSC,
SGSN and/or MME, in which case, the subsequent procedure to forward the
message is the same as defined in TS 23.040 [2].
4) The SMS-GMSC delivers the Short Message to the IP-SM-GW in the same manner
that it delivers the Short Message to an MSC, SGSN or MME, including the MT
Correlation ID received from the IP-SM-GW, in place of the IMSI.
5) The IP-SM-GW checks whether the recipient is authorized for the
interworking service. If the user is authorized, the IP-SM-GW recognizes that
the received message is part of a concatenated Short Message and stores the
received message.
NOTE 1: The IP-SM-GW needs to have access to a persistent storage in order to
aggregate all the Short Message parts.
6) The IP-SM-GW acknowledges the Forward Short Message to the SMS-GMSC.
7) The SMS-GMSC may send a Report SM Delivery Status to the HSS. The HSS shall
ignore the information provided in this report.
8) The SMS-GMSC sends a Delivery report (SMS-DELIVER-REPORT) to the SMS-SC.
9) The SMS-SC forwards the next Short Message that is part of a concatenation
of two or more Short Messages to the SMS-GMSC.
NOTE 2: If this is not the last Short Message of the concatenation, then
processing continues at step 4.
10) If this is the last Short Message of the concatenation, then the SMS GMSC
delivers the Short Message to the IP-SM-GW in the same manner that it delivers
the Short Message to an MSC, SGSN or MME, including the MT Correlation ID
received from the IP-SM-GW, in place of the IMSI.
11) The IP-SM-GW checks whether the recipient is authorized for the
interworking service. If the user is authorized, the IP-SM-GW recognizes that
the received message is part of a concatenated Short Message and stores it.
12-13) Once all the segments have been received, the IP-SM-GW establishes an
MSRP session with the recipient\'s UE to deliver the message. The session
invitation is sent to the recipient UE.
NOTE 3: As a matter of implementation efficiency, the IP-SM-GW may initiate
the connection towards the recipient after receiving the first Forward Short
Message and passing a service authorization check. This may help prevent
timeouts at the SMS GMSC (while it waits for the final Delivery report) but
may also result in unnecessary session initiation signalling if there is a
failure in a service check for subsequently received Short Messages.
14) The IP-SM-GW delivers the message in one or more MSRP SEND requests to the
recipient UE.
15) -16) The IP-SM-GW closes the session after message delivery is complete.
17) The IP-SM-GW acknowledges the Forward Short Message to the SMS-GMSC.
18) The IP-SM-GW may send a Report SM Delivery Status to the HLR/HSS for
either of the following cases:
\- setting of the Message Waiting flags when the Forward Short Message was
unsuccessful;
\- clearing of the Message Waiting flags in HLR/HSS when the Forward Short
Message was successful, but had previously failed.
NOTE 4: See TS 23.040 [2] for a full explanation of when the Message Waiting
flags are set and unset.
19) The SMS-GMSC may send a Report SM Delivery Status to the HSS. The HSS
shall ignore the information provided in this report.
20) The SMS-GMSC sends a Delivery report (SMS-DELIVER-REPORT) to the SMS-SC.
## 6.10 Service-level interworking: Status Report procedure for Instant
Message to Short Message interworking
Figure 6.10: Status report procedure for Instant Message to Short Message
interworking
1) An Instant Message from the UE is successfully delivered to the SMS user
after service-level interworking. The original Instant Message requested a
Disposition Notification.
NOTE 1: A Disposition Notification can be requested in the message sent by the
UE in step 1 as described in IETF IMDN draft-ietf-simple-imdn [13]. If the
requested Disposition Notification by the IM user is a request for a read
notification, the IP-SM-GW ignores the request.
2) The SMS-SC sends a Status report to the SMS-GMSC.
NOTE 2: The Status report will, from the SMS-GMSC\'s point of view be treated
as any SM termination.
NOTE 3: The Status report is an optional message.
3a) The SMS GMSC interrogates the HLR/HSS to retrieve routeing information.
Based on the pre-configured IP-SM-GW address for the user, the HLR/HSS
forwards the request to the corresponding IP-SM-GW.
3b) The HLR/HSS returns the IMSI and the address(es) of the current MSC, SGSN
and/or MME to the IP-SM-GW for delivery of the Short Message in CS/PS domain.
3c) The IP-SM-GW creates a MT Correlation ID as per TS 23.040 [2], which
associates the Routing Info retrieval with the subsequent Forward Short
Message messages(s), and stores this along with the IMSI of the receiving
subscriber. The IP-SM-GW returns to the SMS-GMSC the address of itself, along
with the MT Correlation ID in the IMSI field, as routeing information.
Alternatively, the IP-SM-GW may return the address(es) of the current MSC,
SGSN and or MME, in which case, the subsequent procedure to forward the
message is the same as defined in TS 23.040 [2].
4) The SMS-GMSC sends the status report in the Forward Short Message to the
IP-SM-GW.
NOTE 4: Steps 5 to 11 only occur if the original IM requested a delivery
notification in the Disposition Notification.
5) The IP-SM-GW translates and maps the Status report in the Forward Short
Message into an Instant Message carrying a Delivery Notification as described
in the IETF IMDN draft-ietf-simple-imdn [13]. The IP‑SM‑GW should keep the
message id for a message for which IMDN was requested so it can send the
message id to the UE in the IMDN.
6-7) The IP-SM-GW sends a Delivery Notification within an Instant Message to
the S-CSCF, which sends the Instant Message to the UE.
8-9) The UE acknowledges receipt of the Instant Message containing the
Delivery Notification to the S-CSCF. The S‑CSCF sends the acknowledgment to
the IP-SM-GW.
10) The IP-SM-GW sends a Delivery report (SMS-DELIVER-REPORT) to the SMS-GMSC.
11) The SMS-GMSC sends an acknowledgement back to the SMS-SC.
## 6.11 IM or CPM user sends an Instant Message to an SMSIP UE
An IMS registered user with SIMPLE IM service or CPM service sends an Instant
Message via service-level interworking as an encapsulated Short Message to an
SMSIP UE, which did not indicate support for SIMPLE IM or CPM when registering
to IMS.
NOTE 1: Based upon user subscription and depending on network deployment,
other Application Servers could be processing the incoming Instant Message
before the IP-SM-GW. The behaviour of the IM AS is described in OMA-TS-
SIMPLE_IM-V1_0 [12]. The behaviour of the CPM AS is described in OMA-TS-
CPM_Conv_Fnct-V1_0 [17].
Figure 6.11: Successful UE termination Instant Message to encapsulated Short
Message procedure
1) IM or CPM UE sends an Instant Message to the S-CSCF#1. The UE may request
to hide its Public User Identity from the recipient within the Instant
Message, as described in OMA‑TS‑SIMPLE_IM‑V1_0 [12] and in OMA-TS-
CPM_Conv_Fnct-V1_0 [17].
2) The S-CSCF#1 forwards the Instant Message to the S-CSCF#2.
3) The S-CSCF#2 forwards the Instant Message to the IP-SM-GW based on iFC.
4) Based on user subscription and authorisation for service-level
interworking, on operator policy and user preferences, and on UE capability
indicated during IMS registration, the IP-SM-GW shall decide whether to
perform service-level interworking. If the user is subscribed and authorised
for transport-level interworking, and based on UE capability indicated during
IMS registration, and on operator policy and user preferences, the message may
be delivered as an encapsulated Short Message to the UE over IMS. Otherwise,
the Short Message is delivered over CS/PS, as described in clause 6.13. If the
sender of the Instant Message requests to hide its Public User Identity from
the recipient and operator policy allows for this, the IP‑SM‑GW shall
anonymise the identity of the user to the recipient. Otherwise, if operator
policy prohibits this, the IP‑SM‑GW shall return an appropriate error to the
user.
NOTE 2: If a delivery notification was requested in the message sent by the UE
in step 1 as described in IETF IMDN RFC 5438 [13], the procedure for delivery
report described in clause 6.12 applies. Otherwise IP-SM-GW will just
acknowledge, at the SIP level, the Delivery report received from the SMSIP UE.
5) The IP-SM-GW forwards the encapsulated Short Message to the S-CSCF#2.
6) The S-CSCF#2 forwards the encapsulated Short Message to the SMSIP UE.
7) The SMSIP UE acknowledges the translated encapsulated Short Message.
8) The S-CSCF forwards the acknowledgement of the translated encapsulated
Short Message to the IP-SM-GW.
9-11) The IP-SM-GW forwards the acknowledgement of the translated encapsulated
Short Message to the originating IM UE or CPM UE.
## 6.12 Delivery report for an Instant Message delivered as encapsulated Short
Message
This procedure follows the procedure described in clause 6.11, when the
original Instant Message included a delivery notification request.
Figure 6.12: Delivery report after a successful Instant Message to
encapsulated Short Message procedure
NOTE: An encapsulated Short Message has been sent successfully according to
the procedure described in clause 6.11 before the procedure below can be
performed.
1-2) The SMSIP UE has received the Short Message as described in clause 6.11
and sends a Delivery report (SMS-DELIVER-REPORT) to the IP-SM-GW via the
S-CSCF.
3-4) The IP-SM-GW acknowledges, at the SIP level, the Delivery report to the
SMSIP UE via the S-CSCF.
5-7) The IP-SM-GW sends a Delivery Notification to the IM UE or CPM UE.
8-10) The IM UE or CPM UE acknowledges the reception of the Delivery
Notification.
## 6.13 Service-level interworking: IM or CPM capable UE sends an Instant
Message to an SMS user with Interworking in the terminating side
This procedure describes the delivery of an Instant Message to a registered or
an un-registered IMS subscriber. For the unregistered case, the S‑CSCF
forwards the Instant Message to the IP‑SM‑GW based on the unregistered iFC of
the subscriber.
Figure 6.13: Successful IM terminating to SMS procedure with Interworking in
the Terminating Side
1) UE submits an Instant Message, destined to another IM user or CPM user in
another IMS domain, using an appropriate SIP method. The UE may request to
hide its Public User Identity from the recipient within the Instant Message,
as described in OMA‑TS‑SIMPLE_IM‑V1_0 [12] and in OMA-TS-CPM_Conv_Fnct-V1_0
[17].
2) The S-CSCF resolves the destination domain and routes the message towards
the S-CSCF in the terminating network (\"Terminating S-CSCF\").
3) The terminating S-CSCF forwards the Instant Message to the IM AS
(\"Terminating IM AS\") or to the CPM AS (\"Terminating CPM AS\") based on
stored iFC.
NOTE: Depending on iFC configuration, it is possible that the IM AS or CPM AS
is not triggered for the unregistered subscribers.
4) The terminating IM AS or CPM AS invokes terminating IM or CPM services as
applicable for the destination IM or CPM user.
5a) The IM AS or CPM AS can forward the Instant Message back to the
terminating S-CSCF, e.g. the terminating IM user is offline or the CPM user
has no terminating interworking user preferences.
5b) In the case of the CPM AS, if terminating interworking user preferences
are set, the Instant Message is routed directly to the IP-SM-GW in which case
the procedure continues with step 7.
6) The terminating S-CSCF forwards the Instant Message to the IP-SM-GW, e.g.
based on stored iFC.
7) If the user is authorized, the IP-SM-GW performs service-level interworking
by converting the Instant Message to Short Message. The IP-SM-GW shall obtain
the routeing information for the UE from the HLR/HSS and deliver the message
to the UE. If the sender of the Instant Message requests to hide its Public
User Identity from the recipient and operator policy allows for this, the
IP‑SM‑GW shall anonymise the identity of the user to the recipient. Otherwise,
if operator policy prohibits this, the IP‑SM‑GW shall return an appropriate
error to the user.
8) The IP-SM-GW obtains the routeing information for the destination UE from
the HLR/HSS.
9) The IP-SM-GW sends the Forward Short Message message to the target
MSC/SGSN/MME.
10) The MSC/SGSN/MME sends the Short Message to the UE.
11) The UE acknowledges the receipt of the Short Message.
12) The MSC/SGSN/MME sends a Delivery report (SMS-DELIVER-REPORT) to the IP-
SM-GW.
13) The IP-SM-GW sends OK response to the terminating S-CSCF.
14) The S-CSCF forwards the OK to the terminating IM AS or CPM AS.
15) The terminating IM AS or CPM AS forwards the OK response back to the
terminating S-CSCF.
16) The terminating S-CSCF forwards the OK back towards the originating
S-CSCF.
17) The originating S-CSCF forwards the OK to the originating UE.
## 6.14 Service-level interworking: IM or CPM user receives Short Message from
an SMS user
An IMS registered user with SIMPLE IM or CPM service receives a Short Message
formatted via service-level interworking to an Instant Message.
Figure 6.14: Successful IM termination after service-level interworking
1) The UE registers to the S-CSCF according to the IMS registration procedure.
2) The SMS-SC forwards a Short Message to the SMS-GMSC.
3a) The SMS GMSC interrogates the HSS to retrieve routeing information. Based
on the pre-configured IP-SM-GW address for the user, the HSS forwards the
request to the corresponding IP-SM-GW.
3b) The HLR/HSS returns the IMSI and the address(es) of the current MSC, SGSN
and/or MME to the IP-SM-GW for delivery of the SM in CS/PS domain.
3c) The IP-SM-GW creates a MT Correlation ID as per TS 23.040 [2], which
associates the Routing Info retrieval with the subsequent Forward Short
Message messages(s), and stores this along with the IMSI of the receiving
subscriber. The IP-SM-GW returns to the SMS-GMSC the address of itself, along
with the MT Correlation ID in the IMSI field, as routeing information.
4) The SMS-GMSC delivers the Short Message to the IP-SM-GW in the same manner
that it delivers the Short Message to an MSC, SGSN or MME, including the MT
Correlation ID received from the IP-SM-GW, in place of the IMSI.
5) The IP-SM-GW checks whether the recipient is authorized for the
interworking service.
NOTE 1: The IP-SM-GW will determine whether the transport-level interworking
or the service-level interworking is to be performed according to clause
6.8.3.
6) If the user is authorized for service-level interworking, the IP-SM-GW
converts the Short Message to an Instant Message. It sends the Instant Message
using the appropriate SIP method towards the S-CSCF.
7) The S-CSCF forwards the Instant Message to the UE.
8) The UE acknowledges the SIP request to the S-CSCF.
9) The S-CSCF forwards the acknowledgement of the SIP request to the IP-SM-GW.
10) The IP-SM-GW acknowledges the Forward Short Message to the SMS-GMSC.
11) The SMS-GMSC sends a Delivery report (SMS‑DELIVER‑REPORT) to the SMS‑SC.
12) The IP‑SM‑GW may send a Report SM Delivery Status to the HLR/HSS.
13) The SMS-GMSC may send a Report SM Delivery Status to the HSS. The HSS
shall ignore the information provided in this report.
## 6.15 Service-level Interworking: CPM capable UE sends a Chat session
invitation to an SMS user
### 6.15.1 IP-SM-GW in the originating network
Figure 6.15.1: Chat session invitation to SMS user and Message data exchange
(IP-SM-GW in originating network)
1) The UE registers to S-CSCF according to the IMS registration procedure.
2) The UE sends a session invitation request for a chat session to the S-CSCF,
using the appropriate SIP method. The UE may request to hide its Public User
Identity from the recipient within the session invitation.
3) S-CSCF forwards the session invitation to the IP-SM-GW based on stored iFC.
NOTE 1: Subscribers with no subscription for service level interworking will
not be provided with the relevant iFCs.
4) The IP-SM-GW performs service authorization based on the stored subscriber
data retrieved from the HLR/HSS at the time of the registration procedure as
specified in clause 6.1. The IP-SM-GW shall check whether the originating
subscriber is authorised to use the interworking service. If the result of
service authorization is negative, the IP-SM-GW shall not forward the message,
and shall return the appropriate error information to the UE in a failure
report. If the sender of the session invitation asks to hide its Public User
Identity from the recipient and operator policy allows for this, the IP-SM-GW
shall anonymize the identity of the user in all messages it sends to the
recipient. If operator policy prohibits anonymity, the IP-SM-GW shall not
perform interworking and shall send back an appropriate response.
NOTE 2: Steps 5 to 7 are only executed if the operator policy is to check back
with the SMS user before accepting the invitation on behalf of the SMS user.
Otherwise, the process continues with step 8, as if the SMS user has responded
with an acceptance of the chat session invitation.
5) Otherwise, the IP-SM-GW correlates an MSISDN to this chat session. Any SMS
sent from the SMS user to this MSISDN should be interworked into the chat
session with which this MSISDN is correlated. The IP-SM-GW shall use the SC
Address in the subscriber data retrieved from the HSS at registration or
provisioned by configuration and translates the chat session invitation
request to a Short Message (SMS- SUBMIT) carrying an SC Address, then forwards
it towards the SMS-SC (SC Address) via the SMS-IWMSC (as described in TS
23.040 [2]). The text in the Short Message is defined by the operator and
should convey information to the SMS user that he is invited to send and
receive messages in the context of a chat session, and include instructions on
how to accept, reject and end the session. If no response is received in time,
the IP-SM-GW will consider the session rejected and send an appropriate
response to the session invitation.
NOTE 3: The MSISDN used as the sender of the Short Message is either the
MSISDN of the CPM user or one that is assigned by the IP-SM-GW, depending on
operator configuration.
6) The SMS-IWMSC forwards the Short Message (SMS- SUBMIT) to the SMS-SC and
the SMS is delivered to the SMS user using standard SMS procedures (see TS
23.040 [2]).
7) A Short Message is sent by the SMS user via the SMS-GMSC to the IP-SM-GW in
accordance to steps 2 to 4 and steps 10 to 13 from clause 6.14.
8) If the answer is positive, the IP-SM-GW acknowledges the session
invitation. Otherwise the IP-SM-GW will consider the session rejected and send
back an appropriate response.
9) Session invitation acknowledgement is forwarded by S-CSCF to the CPM UE.
NOTE 4: The following steps are executed only if an SMS with a positive answer
is received from the SMS user or if the operator policy indicated that the
session is accepted without SMS user interaction. If a negative response to
the invitation is received or if no response from the SMS user is received
within an operator defined time, the IP-SM-GW will send a negative response to
the chat invitation.
NOTE 5: Steps 10 to 12 are repeated for each message sent from the CPM user
towards the SMS user, and steps 13 to 14 are repeated for each message sent
from the SMS user towards the CPM user.
10) The CPM user sends a message within the chat session containing data to
the recipient SMS user.
11) The IP-SM-GW transforms the received message into a Short Message and
sends a Short Message (SMS- SUBMIT) carrying the SC Address, then forwards it
towards the SMS-SC (SC Address) via the SMS-IWMSC (as described in TS 23.040
[2]). According to operator policy, each SMS generated for the SMS user may
include text instructions on how to leave the chat session.
12) The SMS-IWMSC forwards the Short Message (SMS- SUBMIT) to the SMS-SC and
the SMS is delivered to the SMS user using standard SMS procedures (see TS
23.040 [2]).
13) A Short Message is sent by the SMS user via the SMS-GMSC to the IP-SM-GW
in accordance to steps 2 to 13 from clause 6.14.
NOTE 6: Step 5 of the flow in clause 6.14 becomes this: The IP-SM-GW
identifies that a session exists between the SMS user and the CPM user.
### 6.15.2 IP-SM-GW in the terminating network
The SMS user (SMS UE B) in this flow is a CPM user (CPM user B) whose
preferences are set in his home network to receive his incoming chat sessions
as Short Messages.
Figure 6.15.2: Chat session invitation to SMS user and message data exchange
(IP-SM-GW in terminating network)
1) The originating network for CPM user A sends a session invitation request
for a chat session to a CPM user (CPM user B) in another IMS domain, using the
appropriate SIP method. The UE may request to hide its Public User Identity
from the recipient within the session invitation. The originating S-CSCF (not
shown) resolves the destination domain and routes the session invitation
towards the S-CSCF in the terminating network (\"terminating S-CSCF\").
2) The terminating S-CSCF forwards the session invitation to the IP-SM-GW
based on stored iFC.
NOTE 1: Subscribers with no subscription for service level interworking will
not be provided with the relevant iFCs.
3) Authorization to continue is checked. If the sender of the session
invitation asks to hide its Public User Identity from the recipient and
operator policy allows for this, the IP SM GW shall anonymize the identity of
the user in all messages it sends to the recipient. If operator policy
prohibits anonymity, or if the IP-SM-GW cannot identify the sending party and
the operator prohibits session invitations from unidentified users, the IP SM
GW shall not perform interworking and send back an appropriate response.
NOTE 2: Steps 5 to 7 are only executed if the operator policy is to check back
with the SMS user before accepting the invitation on behalf of the SMS user.
Otherwise, the process continues with step 8, as if the SMS user has responded
with an acceptance of the chat session invitation.
4) The IP-SM-GW performs service-level interworking by converting the chat
session invitation request to a Short Message. The IP-SM-GW obtains the
routeing information for the destination UE from the HLR/HSS.
5) The IP-SM-GW sends the Forward Short Message message to the target MSC. The
IP-SM-GW assigns an MSISDN representing the chat session to ensure that the
reply to this SMS is sent back to this particular IP-SM-GW. Any SMS sent from
the SMS user to this MSISDN should be interworked into the chat session with
which this MSISDN is correlated. The text in the Short Message is defined by
the operator and should convey information to the SMS user that he is invited
to send and receive messages in the context of a chat session, and include
instructions on how to accept, reject and end the session. The identity of the
original sender (CPM user or group) is included as part of the operator
provided invitation text. If no response is received in time, the IP-SM-GW
will consider the session rejected and send an appropriate response to the
session invitation.
6) The MSC/SGSN/MME sends the Short Message to the SMS user.
7) A Short Message is received via the SMS-GMSC from the SMS user by the IP-
SM-GW, in accordance to steps 2 to 4 and steps 10 to 13 of clause 6.14,
indicating the response to the chat session invitation. The message is
targeted to the MSISDN representing the chat session which was assigned in
step 5.
8) If the answer is positive, the IP-SM-GW acknowledges the session
invitation. Otherwise the IP-SM-GW will consider the session rejected and send
back an appropriate response.
9) The session invitation acknowledgement is forwarded by S-CSCF to the CPM
UE.
NOTE 3: The following steps are executed only if an SMS with a positive answer
is received from the SMS user or if the operator policy indicated that the
session is accepted without SMS user interaction. In case a negative response
to the invitation is received or if no response from the SMS user is received
within an operator defined time, the IP-SM-GW will send a negative response to
the chat invitation.
NOTE 4: Steps 10 to 13 are repeated for each message sent from the CPM user
towards the SMS user, and step 14 is repeated for each message sent from the
SMS user towards the CPM user.
10) The CPM user sends a message within the chat session containing data to
the recipient SMS user.
11) The IP-SM-GW transforms the received message into a Short Message and
obtains the routeing information for the destination UE from the HLR/HSS.
12) The IP-SM-GW sends a Short Message (SMS- DELIVER) towards the
MSC/SGSN/MME, as described in TS 23.040 [2]. The IP-SM-GW inserts the MSISDN
representing the chat session as the sender of the message, to ensure that the
reply to this SMS is sent back to it.
13) The MSC/SGSN/MME forwards the Short Message (SMS- DELIVER) to the SMS
user, and the SMS is delivered to the SMS user using standard SMS procedures
as described in TS 23.040 [2]).
14) A Short Message is received via the SMS-GMSC from the SMS user by the IP-
SM-GW, in accordance to steps 2 to 13 from clause 6.14. The message is
targeted to the MSISDN representing the chat session which was assigned in
step 5.
NOTE 5: Step 5 of the flow in clause 6.14 becomes this: \"The IP-SM-GW
identifies that a session exists between the SMS user and the CPM user\".
## 6.16 Service-level Interworking: CPM capable UE tearing down a Chat session
between a CPM user and an SMS user
### 6.16.1 IP-SM-GW in the originating network
Figure 6.16.1: Chat session teardown request to SMS (IP-SM-GW in originating
network)
1) The CPM UE sends a SIP BYE for an ongoing session to the S-CSCF.
2) S-CSCF forwards the session teardown request to the IP-SM-GW. The IP-SM-GW
performs service-level interworking by converting the session teardown request
to a Short Message (SMS-SUBMIT) carrying the SC Address and including operator
provided teardown text. The IP-SM-GW uses the SC Address in the subscriber
data retrieved from the HSS at registration or provisioned by configuration.
3) The IP-SM-GW forwards the Short Message towards the SMS-SC (SC Address) via
the SMS-IWMSC (as described in TS 23.040 [2]). The text in the Short Message
is defined by the operator and should convey information to the SMS user that
the chat session is ending.
NOTE 1: The MSISDN used as the sender of the Short Message is either the
MSISDN of the CPM user or one that was assigned by the IP-SM-GW at session
establishment, depending on operator configuration.
4) The SMS-IWMSC forwards the Short Message (SMS- SUBMIT) to the SMS-SC (see
TS 23.040 [2]).
NOTE 2: Steps 3 to 4 are only executed if the operator policy requires that
the SMS user be told the session is being torn down. Otherwise, the process
continues with step 5.
5) The IP-SM-GW acknowledges the session teardown request and tears down the
associated resources.
6) The session teardown acknowledgement is forwarded by the S-CSCF to the CPM
UE.
### 6.16.2 IP-SM-GW in the terminating network
The SMS user (SMS user B) in this flow is a CPM user (CPM user B) who has set
his preferences in his home network to receive his incoming chat sessions as
Short Messages.
Figure 6.16.2: Chat session teardown request to SMS (IP-SM-GW in terminating
network)
1) The CPM user\'s originating network sends a session teardown request for an
ongoing chat session to the terminating S-CSCF.
2) The terminating S-CSCF forwards the session teardown request to the IP-SM-
GW serving the SMS user. The IP-SM-GW performs service-level interworking by
converting the session teardown request to a Short Message including operator
provided teardown text.
3) The IP-SM-GW obtains the routeing information for the destination UE from
the HLR/HSS.
4) The IP-SM-GW sends the Forward Short Message to the target MSC/SGSN/MME.
The IP-SM-GW inserts the MSISDN it had previously assigned to represent this
chat session as the sender of the message.
NOTE: Steps 3 to 5 are only executed if the operator policy requires that the
SMS user be told the session is being torn down. Otherwise, the process
continues with step 6.
5) The MSC/SGSN/MME sends the Short Message to the SMS user.
6) The IP-SM-GW acknowledges the session teardown request and tears down the
associated resources.
7) The session teardown acknowledgement is forwarded by S-CSCF towards the CPM
user\'s originating network.
## 6.17 Service-level Interworking: SMS user requesting the IP-SM-GW to tear
down the Chat session between a CPM user and an SMS user
### 6.17.1 IP-SM-GW in the originating network
Figure 6.17.1: Chat session teardown request to CPM UE (IP-SM-GW in
originating network)
1) A message is received from the SMS user via the SMS-GMSC by the IP-SM-GW,
in accordance to steps 2 to 4 and steps 10 to 13 of clause 6.14, with the
operator defined Short Message indicating the SMS user wants to leave the chat
session.
2) The IP-SM-GW performs service-level interworking by recognizing that the
Short Message corresponds to the operator defined teardown text indicating the
SMS user wants to leave the chat session, so the IP-SM-GW sends a chat session
teardown request.
3) The session teardown request is forwarded by S-CSCF to the CPM UE.
4) The CPM UE acknowledges the session teardown request.
5) The acknowledgement is forwarded by the S-CSCF to the IP-SM-GW.
### 6.17.2 IP-SM-GW in the terminating network
The SMS user in this flow is a CPM user who has set his preferences in his
home network to receive his incoming chat sessions as Short Messages.
Figure 6.17.2: Chat session teardown request to CPM UE (IP-SM-GW in
terminating network)
1) A message is received from the SMS user via the SMS-GMSC by the IP-SM-GW,
in accordance to steps 2 to 4 and steps 10 to 13 of clause 6.14, with the
operator provided teardown text indicating the SMS user wants to leave the
chat session.
2) The IP-SM-GW performs service-level interworking by recognizing that the
Short Message corresponds to the operator provided teardown text indicating
the SMS user wants to leave the chat session, so the IP-SM-GW sends a chat
session teardown request.
3) The session teardown request is forwarded by the S-CSCF towards the CPM
user\'s originating network.
4) The CPM user\'s originating network acknowledges the session teardown
request and tears down the associated resources.
5) The acknowledgement is forwarded by the S-CSCF to the IP-SM-GW.
## 6.18 Service-level interworking: Status Report procedure for chat session
message to Short Message interworking
Figure 6.18: Status report procedure for chat session message to Short Message
interworking
1) A chat session message from the UE is successfully delivered to the SMS
user after service-level interworking according to clause 6.15. The chat
session message requested a success or failure delivery report.
NOTE 1: A Request for success or failure delivery report can be requested in a
chat session message sent by the UE as described in IETF RFC 4975 [19].
2) The SMS-SC sends a Status report to the SMS-GMSC.
NOTE 2: The Status report, from the SMS-GMSC\'s point of view, will be treated
as any SM termination.
NOTE 3: The Status report is an optional message.
3a) The SMS GMSC interrogates the HLR/HSS to retrieve routeing information.
Based on the pre-configured IP-SM-GW address for the user, the HLR/HSS
forwards the request to the corresponding IP-SM-GW.
3b) The HLR/HSS returns the IMSI and the address(es) of the current MSC, SGSN
and/or MME to the IP-SM-GW for delivery of the Short Message in CS/PS domain.
3c) The IP-SM-GW creates a MT Correlation ID as per TS 23.040 [2], which
associates the Routing Info retrieval with the subsequent Forward Short
Message messages(s), and stores this along with the IMSI of the receiving
subscriber. The IP-SM-GW returns to the SMS-GMSC the address of itself, along
with the MT Correlation ID in the IMSI field, as routeing information.
Alternatively, the IP-SM-GW may return the address(es) of the current MSC,
SGSN and/or MME, in which case, the subsequent procedure to forward the
message is the same as defined in TS 23.040 [2].
4) The SMS-GMSC sends the status report in the Forward Short Message to the
IP-SM-GW.
5) The IP-SM-GW translates and maps the Status report in the Forward Short
Message into a report request as described in MSRP IETF RFC 4975 [19].
6) The IP-SM-GW sends a Delivery report (SMS-DELIVER-REPORT) to the SMS-GMSC.
7) The SMS-GMSC sends an acknowledgement back to the SMS-SC.
8-9) The IP-SM-GW sends a success of failure report based on the value in the
status report.
NOTE 4: Step 6 and 8 can happen independently of each other.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Service-level interworking: IM or CPM user
sends an Instant Message to a group list including SMS users
Figure A.1: IM user sends an Instant Message to a group list via service-level
interworking
1) The UE registers to S-CSCF according the IMS registration procedure.
2) UE generates Instant Message which includes group information, e.g. Group
identifier in the Request-URI and/or recipient list in the body of the Instant
Message. UE submits the Instant Message to the S-CSCF using an appropriate SIP
method.
3) Based on the stored iFC, S-CSCF forwards the Instant Message to an AS in
charge of the group delivery, e.g., the controlling function server defined in
OMA-TS-SIMPLE_IM-V1_0 [12] or the controlling function server defined in OMA-
TS-CPM_Conv_Fnct-V1_0 [17].
4) The group delivery AS replicates per Instant Message for per recipient
according to the group information it obtains acting as a B2BUA. See detail in
OMA-TS-SIMPLE_IM-V1_0 [12] or in OMA-TS-CPM_Conv_Fnct-V1_0 [17].
5) The group delivery AS sends the generated multiple Instant Messages to
S-CSCF (e.g., the Instant Messages can be delivered as what the list server
does defined in the TS 24.247 [14]).
6) The S-CSCF forwards the Instant Messages to the IP-SM-GW based on the
stored iFC.
7) The IP-SM-GW shall decide whether to perform service-level interworking
depending on SIP request header (e.g. Request-URI), operator policy, when the
Instant Message is not routeable in the IMS. If IP-SM-GW decided to perform
service-level interworking, the IP-SM-GW performs service authorization based
on the stored subscriber data retrieved from the HLR/HSS at the time of the
third party registration procedure as described in the clause 6.1. The IP-SM-
GW shall check whether the originating subscriber is authorised to use the
interworking service .If the result of service authorization is negative, the
IP-SM-GW shall not forward the message, and shall return the appropriate error
information to the UE in a failure report. Otherwise, the IP-SM-GW shall
translate the IMS message to a Short Message (SMS- SUBMIT) and forwards it
towards the SMS-SC (SC Address) via the SMS-IWMSC (as described in TS 23.040
[2]).
8) If service authorization is successful, the IP-SM-GW acknowledges the
Instant Messages.
9-11) Instant Message acknowledgement is forwarded by S-CSCF to UE.
12) The SMS-IWMSC forwards the Short Messages (SMS- SUBMIT) to the SMS-SC (see
TS 23.040 [2]).
13) The SMS-SC sends multiple Submit reports (SMS-SUBMIT REPORT) to SMS-IWMSC
(see TS 23.040 [2]).
14) SMS-IWMSC sends the Submit reports to IP-SM-GW (see TS 23.040 [2]).
15) IP-SM-GW translates the received Submit reports to appropriate IMS
delivery notifications defined in RFC 5438 [13], and forwards the IMS delivery
notifications to the S-CSCF.
16) The S-CSCF forwards the IMS delivery notifications to the group delivery
AS.
17) The group delivery AS aggregates the delivery notifications of the same
type from different recipients into a single delivery notification.
18) The group delivery AS sends the delivery notification to the S‑CSCF.
19) The S-CSCF forwards the delivery notification to the UE.
20-23) Acknowledgement of the delivery notification is forwarded by S-CSCF to
IP-SM-GW.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Group chat sessions
# B.1 Service-level interworking: IM or CPM user initiates a group chat and
sends an Instant Message to a group list including SMS users
The flow in this clause is the same as that described in clause 6.15.1 with
the difference that it is required that the IP-SM-GW assign an MSISDN for this
group chat session so that it is clear for the SMS user that any message sent
to the assigned MSISDN will be delivered to the group chat session
participants, not just to the CPM UE that invited the SMS user.
In this flow, the IP-SM-GW is in the PLMN of the CPM UE, but it could also be
in the PLMN of the SMS user if that user was also a CPM user and had
terminating user preferences to deliver the session invitation via SMS.
Figure B.1: CPM user initiates a group chat and messages are exchanged within
the group chat via service-level interworking
1) The UE registers to S-CSCF according the IMS registration procedure.
2) The UE generates a chat session invitation which includes group
information, e.g. Group identifier in the Request-URI and/or recipient list in
the body of the chat session invitation. UE submits the Instant Message to the
S-CSCF using an appropriate SIP method.
3) Based on the stored iFC, S-CSCF forwards the session invitation to an AS in
charge of handling group chat requests, e.g., the controlling function server
defined in OMA-TS-SIMPLE_IM-V1_0 [12] or the controlling function server
defined in OMA-TS-CPM_Conv_Fnct-V1_0 [17].
4) The group chat AS replicates a session invitation per recipient according
to the group information it obtains acting as a B2BUA. See details in OMA-TS-
SIMPLE_IM-V1_0 [12] or in OMA-TS-CPM_Conv_Fnct-V1_0 [17].
5) The group chat AS sends the generated multiple session invitations to the
S-CSCF.
6) The group chat AS forwards one of the chat session invitations to the IP-
SM-GW according to normal routing procedures (e.g., via S-CSCF).
NOTE 1: Nodes specific to the CPM functions such as ISF are either collocated
with the IP-SM-GW or else are not shown.
7) The IP-SM-GW translates the chat session invitation request to a Short
Message (SMS- SUBMIT) and forwards it towards the group chat SMS-SC (SC
Address) via the SMS-IWMSC (as described in TS 23.040 [2]). The IP-SM-GW
assigns an MSISDN representing the group chat session to ensure that the reply
to this SMS is sent back to this particular IP-SM-GW. Any SMS sent from the
SMS user to this MSISDN will be interworked into the group chat session with
which this MSISDN is correlated. The text in the Short Message is defined by
the operator and conveys information to the SMS user that he is invited to
send and receive messages in the context of a group chat session, and includes
instructions on how to accept, reject and end the session. The identity of the
original sender (CPM user or group) is included as part of the operator
provided invitation text.
8) The SMS-IWMSC forwards the Short Messages (SMS- SUBMIT) to the group chat
SMS-SC and the SMS is delivered to the SMS user using standard SMS procedures
(see TS 23.040 [2]).
9) A Short Message is received from the SMS user via the SMS-GMSC by the IP-
SM-GW, in accordance to steps 2 to 4 and steps 10 to 13 from clause 6.14,
indicating the response to the group chat session invitation. The message is
targeted to the MSISDN representing the group chat session which was assigned
in step 7.
10) If the answer is positive or if operator policy is to accept the session
invitation on behalf of the SMS user, the IP-SM-GW acknowledges the session
invitation. Otherwise the IP-SM-GW will consider the session rejected and send
back an appropriate response.
11) The session invitation acknowledgement is forwarded by S-CSCF to the group
chat AS.
12-13) The group chat AS responds back to the group chat session initiator
once the first user joins the group chat session.
NOTE 2: The following steps are executed only if an SMS with a positive answer
is received from the SMS user or if the operator policy indicated that the
session is accepted without SMS user interaction. In case a negative response
to the invitation is received or if no response from the SMS user is received
within an operator defined time, the IP-SM-GW shall send a negative response
to the chat invitation.
14-17) The IP-SM-GW subscribes to the participant information changes.
NOTE 3: Steps 18 to 21 are repeated for each message sent from any group chat
session participant towards the SMS user, and steps 22 to 24 are repeated for
each message sent from the SMS user towards the group chat session
participants.
18) The CPM UE (or any group chat session participant) sends a message
containing data to the group chat AS.
19) For the group chat session participant who is an SMS user, the message is
routed towards the IP-SM-GW.
20) The IP-SM-GW identifies that a session exists between the SMS user and
group chat AS and transforms the received message into a Short Message and
sends a Short Message (SMS- SUBMIT) carrying the SC Address, then forwards it
towards the group chat SMS-SC (SC Address) via the SMS-IWMSC (as described in
TS 23.040 [2]). The IP-SM-GW inserts the address representing the group chat
session as the sender of the message to ensure that the reply to this SMS is
sent back to this particular IP-SM-GW.
21) The SMS-IWMSC forwards the Short Message (SMS- SUBMIT) to the group chat
SMS-SC and the SMS is delivered to the SMS user using standard SMS procedures
(see TS 23.040 [2]).
22) A Short Message is received from the SMS user via the SMS-GMSC by the IP-
SM-GW, in accordance to steps 2 to 13 from clause 6.14. The message is
targeted to the MSISDN representing the group chat session which was assigned
in step 7.
NOTE 4: Step 5 of the flow in clause 6.14 becomes this: The IP-SM-GW
identifies that a session exists between the SMS user and the CPM user. Steps
6 and 7 of the flow in clause 6.14 are replaced by steps 23 and 24 in this
flow.
23) The IP-SM-GW identifies that a session exists between the SMS user and the
group chat AS and transforms the received message into message data and sends
it within the session towards the group chat AS.
24) The group chat AS forwards the message to all group chat participants.
# B.2 Service-level interworking: CPM user extends a one-to-one chat session
into a group chat session
This flow is the same as that described in clause 6.15.1 with the difference
that it is required that the IP-SM-GW assign an MSISDN when this group chat
session starts if one was not assigned before, so that it is clear for the SMS
user that any message sent to the assigned MSISDN will be delivered to the
group chat session participants, not just to the CPM UE that invited the SMS
user.
In this flow, the IP-SM-GW is in the PLMN of the CPM UE, but it could also be
in the PLMN of the SMS user if that user was also a CPM user and had
terminating user preferences to deliver the session invitation via SMS.
Figure B.2: CPM user modifies a one-to-one chat session into a group chat
session
1) A one-to-one chat session is established between the CPM user and the SMS
user.
2) The UE generates a chat session invitation which includes a recipient list
in the body of the chat session invitation. The original SMS user who is part
of the one-to-one chat session is included in that list An indication is added
for the original SMS user in the list that the existing one-to-one session is
to be replaced by the new session. The UE submits the chat session invitation
to the S-CSCF.
3) Based on the stored iFC, S-CSCF forwards the session invitation to an AS in
charge of handling group chat requests, e.g., the controlling function server
defined in OMA-TS-SIMPLE_IM-V1_0 [12] or the controlling function server
defined in OMA-TS-CPM_Conv_Fnct-V1_0 [17].
4) The group chat AS replicates a session invitation per recipient according
to the group information it obtains acting as a B2BUA. See details in OMA-TS-
SIMPLE_IM-V1_0 [12] or in OMA-TS-CPM_Conv_Fnct-V1_0 [17].
5) The group chat AS sends the generated multiple session invitations to the
S-CSCF.
6) The group chat AS sends one of the chat session invitations to the IP-SM-GW
according to normal routing procedures (e.g., via S-CSCF). The chat session
invitation will indicate that the existing session is to be replaced with a
new session.
7) The IP-SM-GW translates the chat session invitation request to a Short
Message (SMS- SUBMIT) and forwards it towards the group chat SMS-SC (SC
Address) via the SMS-IWMSC (as described in TS 23.040 [2]). The IP-SM-GW
assigns an MSISDN representing the group chat session, if one was not assigned
for the one-to-one chat session, to ensure that the reply to this SMS is sent
back to this particular IP-SM-GW. Any SMS sent from the SMS user to this
MSISDN will be interworked into the group chat session with which this MSISDN
is correlated. The text in the Short Message is defined by the operator and
conveys information to the SMS user that the one-to-one session has been
transformed into a group session and that he is invited to send and receive
messages in the context of a group chat session, and includes instructions on
how to accept, reject and end the session. The identity of the original sender
(CPM user or group) is included as part of the operator provided invitation
text.
8) The SMS-IWMSC forwards the Short Messages (SMS- SUBMIT) to the group chat
SMS-SC and the SMS is delivered to the SMS user using standard SMS procedures
(see TS 23.040 [2]).
9) A Short Message is received from the SMS user via the SMS-GMSC by the IP-
SM-GW, in accordance to steps 2 to 4 and steps 10 to 13 from clause 6.14,
indicating the response to the group chat session invitation. The message is
targeted to the MSISDN representing the group chat session which was assigned
in step 7.
10) If the answer is positive or if operator policy is to accept the session
invitation on behalf of the SMS user, the IP-SM-GW acknowledges the session
invitation. Otherwise the IP-SM-GW will consider the session rejected and
sends back an appropriate response.
11) The session invitation acknowledgement is forwarded by S-CSCF to the group
chat AS.
12-13) The group chat AS responds back to the group chat session initiator
once the first user joins the group chat session.
# B.3 Service-level interworking: IP-SM-GW informs SMS users about group chat
participant changes
In this flow, the IP-SM-GW is in the PLMN of the CPM UE, but it could also be
in the PLMN of the SMS user if that user was also a CPM user and had
terminating user preferences to deliver the session invitation via SMS.
Figure B.3: Sending participant information changes to an SMS user in a group
chat session
1) A group chat session including SMS user(s) set up by an IM or CPM user as
described in clause B.1 steps 1-17.
2) The group chat AS detects change in participants of the group chat session
(e.g. participant added or left the group chat session, that event is not
shown in the flow).
3-4) As the IP-SM-GW has subscribed to participant information changes, the
group chat AS notifies the IP-SM-GW about the participant change through the
S-CSCF using an appropriate SIP method.
5-6) The IP-SM-GW acknowledges the notification.
7) According to operator policy, the IP-SM-GW translates the participant
change notification to a Short Message (SMS- SUBMIT) and forwards it towards
the group chat SMS-SC (SC Address) via the SMS-IWMSC (as described in TS
23.040 [2]). The text in the Short Message is defined by the operator and
conveys appropriate information to the SMS user.
8) The SMS-IWMSC forwards the Short Messages (SMS- SUBMIT) to the group chat
SMS-SC and the SMS is delivered to the SMS user using standard SMS procedures
(see TS 23.040 [2]).
#