# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Although network nodes in the IMS Core Network should have a very high
availability, some maintenance downtime and occasional failures are
unavoidable. Communication links although designed with robust protocols
between the network elements are also subject to failures. This document
specifies a set of standardized procedures for automatic restoration after
loss or corruption of data reducing the impact of these problems in order to
improve service to the users. The scenarios covered here for the IMS Domain
are similar to those covered in 3GPP TS 23.007 [2] for the CS and PS Domains.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the procedures required in 3GPP IMS to handle a
S-CSCF or a P-CSCF service interruption scenario with minimum impact to the
service to the end user.
> NOTE: IMS Restoration Procedures covering service interruption of other
> network elements are not defined in this version of the specification.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.007: \"Restoration procedures\".
[3] 3GPP TS 29.228: \"IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem Cx and Dx interfaces;
Signalling flows and message contents\".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.213: \"Policy and charging control signalling flows and Quality
of Service (QoS) parameter mapping\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.212: \"Policy and Charging Control (PCC); Reference points\".
[7] 3GPP TS 29.214: \"Policy and Charging Control over Rx reference point\".
[8] 3GPP TS 29.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); GPRS Tunnelling
Protocol (GTP) across the Gn and Gp interface\".
[9] 3GPP TS 29.061: \"Interworking between the Public Land Mobile Network
(PLMN) supporting packet based services and Packet Data Networks (PDN)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.274: \"3GPP Evolved Packet System. Evolved GPRS Tunnelling
Protocol for EPS (GTPv2)\".
[11] IETF RFC 3361: \"Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP-for-IPv4)
Option for Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Servers\".
[12] IETF RFC 1034: \"Session Initiation Protocol (SIP): Locating SIP
Servers\".
[13] IETF RFC 3319: \"Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCPv6) Options for
Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Servers\".
[14] IETF RFC 6223: \"Indication of Support for Keep-Alive\".
[15] 3GPP TS 29.275: \"Proxy Mobile IPv6 (PMIPv6) based Mobility and
Tunnelling protocols; Stage 3\".
[16] IETF RFC 7077: \"Update Notifications for Proxy Mobile IPv6\".
[17] 3GPP TS 23.401: _\"_ GPRS Enhancements for E-UTRAN Access _\"_.
[18] IETF RFC 3261: \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\".
[19] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP multimedia call control protocol based on Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP); Stage 3\".
[20] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 2\".
[21] GSMA PRD IR.65: \"IMS Roaming and Interworking Guidelines, version
14.0\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Service Interruption:** A period of time in which one or more network
elements do not respond to requests and do not send any requests to the rest
of the system.
**S-CSCF Restoration Information:** Information required for the S-CSCF to
handle traffic for a registered user. This information is stored in HSS and if
lost, retrieved by the S-CSCF.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
LIR Location Information Request
LIA Location Information Answer
SAR Server Assignment Request
SAA Server Assignment Answer
UAR User Authorization Request
UAA User Authorization Answer
# 4 Restoration of Data in the S-CSCF
## 4.1 General
The following clauses describe the IMS Restoration Procedures for the S-CSCF
service interruption in each of the scenarios where they apply.
## 4.2 Registration Procedure
### 4.2.1 Introduction
The following clauses specify the behaviour of HSS and S-CSCF if they support
the IMS restoration feature.
### 4.2.2 S-CSCF Restoration after Failure
If the UE initiates a SIP REGISTER and the S-CSCF returned by the HSS during
user registration status query procedure fails, the I-CSCF is unable to
contact the S-CSCF. In this case, regardless of this registration is an
initial registration, a re-registration or a de-registration, the I-CSCF shall
send UAR with Authorization Type set to REGISTRATION_AND_CAPABILITIES to the
HSS to explicitly request S-CSCF capabilities. After re-assignment of another
S-CSCF according to the S-CSCF capabilities, the I-CSCF shall forward the
REGISTER to the new S-CSCF _. For registrations and re-registrations, S-CSCF
shall proceed with the registration procedure as for initial registration,
except for the clauses specified in 4.2.3._
_For de-registrations, S-CSCF shall proceed as for user-initiated de-
registration._
### 4.2.3 S-CSCF Restoration during Registration Process
During the registration procedure, the HSS shall send all the registered
Private User Identities sharing the same Public User Identity which is being
registered in the SAA, in addition to the basic user data to the S-CSCF. Then
the S-CSCF compares the registered Private User Identities received from the
HSS with the ones it stores. If there are any registered Private User
Identities the S-CSCF does not have their registration data, the S-CSCF shall
send SAR with Server Assignment Type set to NO_ASSIGNMENT to the HSS to
retrieve the S-CSCF restoration information for the registered Public User
Identity. If there are S-CSCF restoration information related to the Public
User Identity stored in the HSS, the HSS shall send the S-CSCF restoration
information together with the user profile in the SAA to the S-CSCF. The
result code shall be set to DIAMETER_SUCCESS.
If there are more than one group of S-CSCF restoration information related to
the Public User Identity stored in the HSS, which may happen if the Public
User Identity is shared by multiple Private User Identities, the HSS shall
include all of the S-CSCF restoration information in the SAA. One group of
S-CSCF restoration information corresponds to one Private User Identity.
If the S-CSCF receives an initial registration request for a Public User
Identity that does not match any Public User Identity currently registered
with the same Private User Identity as in the request at this S-CSCF, the
S-CSCF shall check whether there is a reg-id parameter in the Contact header
in the SIP REGISTER message and whether there is an \"sos\" SIP URI parameter
in the SIP REGISTER message. Only when a reg-id parameter exists and an
\"sos\" SIP URI parameter does not exist, the S-CSCF shall indicate to the HSS
that the registration is related to a multiple registration.
If the HSS receives an SAR request with multiple registration indication, and
the Public User Identity is stored as registered in the HSS, and there is
restoration information related to the Private User Identity, the HSS shall
not overwrite stored restoration information, instead, it shall send the
stored S-CSCF restoration information together with the user profile in the
SAA. The result code shall be set to DIAMETER_ERROR_IN_ASSIGNMENT_TYPE. The
S-CSCF shall send a new SAR with Server-Assignment-Type set to RE_REGISTRATION
and t _he_ User Data Already Available parameter set to
USER_DATA_ALREADY_AVAILABLE to update the restoration information in the HSS
in accordance to the current registration event.
If the S-CSCF receives a user-initiated deregistration request for a Public
User Identity that does not match any Public User Identity currently
registered with the same Private User Identity as in the request at this
S-CSCF, the S-CSCF shall check whether there is a reg-id parameter in the
Contact header in the received SIP REGISTER message,
\- if a reg-id parameter exists, the S-CSCF shall:
1\. Send SAR with Server-Asignment-Type set to NO_ASSIGNMENT to retrieve the
S-CSCF restoration information associated with the Public User Identity. The
Result-Code shall be set to DIAMETER SUCCESS.
2\. Compare the contact address(es) received in SAA with the contact
address(es) in REGISTER request:
\- If they are not the same, the S-CSCF shall send SAR with Server-Asignment-
Type set to RE_REGISTRATION to update the S-CSCF restoration information in
HSS with the Contact address(es) still associated with the Public User
Identity after the deregistration event.
Otherwise, the S-CSCF shall send SAR with Server-Asignment-Type set to
USER_DEREGISTRATION.
## 4.3 UE Terminating Procedure
### 4.3.1 Introduction
The following clauses specify the behaviour of HSS, I-CSCF and S-CSCF if they
support the IMS Restoration feature.
### 4.3.2 S-CSCF Restoration after Restart
The S-CSCF _lost all user data if it restarts after a failure or_ it is unable
to trust any data after it resumes operation, due to the fact that it may have
lost profile updates from the HSS in the service interruption period. If such
a S-CSCF receives a terminating service request from the I-CSCF, it sends an
SAR to the HSS for unregistered service data. In this case, HSS and S-CSCF
proceed as indicated in 3GPP TS 29.228 [3], except that
\- if the Public User Identity is stored as registered in the HSS, and there
are S-CSCF restoration information related to the Public User Identity stored
in the HSS, the HSS shall send the S-CSCF restoration information together
with the user profile in the SAA. The result code shall be set to
DIAMETER_ERROR_IN_ASSIGNMENT_TYPE. The S-CSCF shall trigger matched registered
services for the Public User Identity.
If there are more than one group of S-CSCF restoration information related to
the Public User Identity, which may happen if the Public User Identity is
shared by multiple Private User Identities, the HSS shall include all of the
S-CSCF restoration information in the SAA. One group of S-CSCF restoration
information corresponds to one Private User Identity.
If the S-CSCF restoration information received includes the UE's subscription
information, the S-CSCF shall construct a NOTIFY message according to the
information and send it to the UE (or UEs if the IMPU is shared between
several IMPIs) to trigger a new registration at anytime after normal
processing of the terminating request.
### 4.3.3 S-CSCF Restoration after Failure
If the S-CSCF returned by the HSS during location query procedure fails, the
I-CSCF is unable to contact the S-CSCF during terminating procedure. In this
case, the I-CSCF shall send LIR to the HSS to explicitly request S-CSCF
capabilities. If the HSS returns the S-CSCF capabilities to the I-CSCF, after
re-selection of another S-CSCF according to the S-CSCF capabilities, the
I-CSCF shall forward the service request to the new S-CSCF _. The HSS and this
new S-CSCF shall behave as described in clause 4.3.2, except that the HSS
shall overwrite the S-CSCF name when receiving the SAR request, only if there
is a previous explicit LIR request for S-CSCF capabilities._
NOTE: If the HSS indicates during location query procedure that the server
name returned corresponds to an AS, then the service request is for PSI direct
routing. In this case, IMS Restoration Procedures will not be executed and
I-CSCF will reject the service request.
## 4.4 UE Originating Procedure
### 4.4.1 Introduction
The following clauses specify the behaviour of HSS, S-CSCF and P-CSCF if they
support the IMS Restoration feature.
### 4.4.2 S-CSCF Restoration after Restart
The S-CSCF _lost all user data if it restarts after a failure or_ it is unable
to trust any data after it resumes operation, due to the fact that it may have
lost profile updates from the HSS in the service interruption period. If such
a S-CSCF receives an originating request different from SIP REGISTER coming
from the UE, the S-CSCF shall send SAR to the HSS with Server Assignment Type
set to NO_ASSIGNMENT to restore the user data. If the S-CSCF name sent in the
Server-Assignment-Request command and the previously assigned S-CSCF name
stored in the HSS are different, which may happen if S-CSCF reassignment
occurred during a terminating restoration before, the HSS shall not overwrite
the S-CSCF name; instead it shall send a response to the S-CSCF with result
code set to DIAMETER_UNABLE_TO_COMPLY, as specified in the 3GPP TS 29.228 [3].
If there are S-CSCF restoration information related to the Public User
Identity stored in the HSS, the HSS shall send the S-CSCF restoration
information together with the user profile in the SAA to the S-CSCF. If the
HSS returns an error DIAMETER_UNABLE_TO_COMPLY to the S-CSCF, the S-CSCF shall
then return a specific error response to the UE to trigger a new registration.
If there are more than one group of S-CSCF restoration information related to
the Public User Identity stored in the HSS, which may happen if the Public
User Identity is shared by multiple Private User Identities, the HSS shall
include all of the S-CSCF restoration information in the SAA. One group of
S-CSCF restoration information corresponds to one Private User Identity.
If authentication of SIP request methods initiated by the UE excluding
REGISTER is desired according to operator's policy, for other authentication
schemes different from IMS-AKA, the S-CSCF requires authentication information
(e.g. authentication vectors). If this information is not stored in the
S-CSCF, the S-CSCF shall fetch that information from the HSS by means of the
authentication procedures (Cx-MAR/MAA).
NOTE 1: The S-CSCF restoration information includes authentication scheme
information (SIP-Authentication-Scheme). It allows the S-CSCF to identify the
corresponding scheme for authentication when multiple schemes are supported.
NOTE 2: The authentication information (e.g. authentication vectors) was
retrieved by the S-CSCF from the HSS for the authentication of REGISTER
requests and it can be stored locally. This data may be lost after the S-CSCF
restart.
If the S-CSCF receives SAA with the service profile of the user, the S-CSCF
shall continue the originating service as normal.
If the S-CSCF receives SAA with S-CSCF restoration information and the S-CSCF
restoration information includes the UE's subscription information, the S-CSCF
shall construct a NOTIFY message according to the information and send it to
the UE (or UEs if the IMPU is shared between several IMPIs) to trigger a new
registration at anytime after normal processing of the originating request.
### 4.4.3 S-CSCF Restoration after Failure
If the UE initiates an originating service request different from SIP REGISTER
and the P-CSCF is unable to contact the S-CSCF in the Route, the P-CSCF shall
return a specific error response to the UE to trigger a new registration.
## 4.5 SIP-AS Originating Procedure
### 4.5.1 Introduction
The following clauses specify the behaviour of HSS, I-CSCF and S-CSCF if they
support the IMS Restoration feature.
### 4.5.2 S-CSCF Restoration after Restart
The S-CSCF _lost all user data if it restarts after a failure or_ it is unable
to trust any data after it resumes operation, due to the fact that it may have
lost profile updates from the HSS in the service interruption period. If such
S-CSCF receives an originating request on behalf of a user (i.e. top-most
route header in request contains \"orig\" parameter) coming from an AS, the
S-CSCF shall send SAR to the HSS with Server Assignment Type set to
UNREGISTERED_USER to inform the HSS that the user is unregistered. HSS and
S-CSCF proceed as indicated in 3GPP TS 29.228 [3], except that:
\- if the Public User Identity is stored as registered in the HSS, and there
is S-CSCF restoration information related to the Public User Identity stored
in the HSS, the HSS shall send the S-CSCF restoration information together
with the user profile in the SAA. The result code shall be set to
DIAMETER_ERROR_IN_ASSIGNMENT_TYPE. The S-CSCF shall trigger matched
originating services for the Public User Identity.if the Public User Identity
is stored as registered in the HSS, and there is no S-CSCF restoration
information related to the Public User Identity stored in the HSS, the HSS
shall send the user profile in the SAA and set the registration state for the
Public Identity to unregistered. The result code shall be set to
DIAMETER_SUCCESS. The S-CSCF shall trigger matched originating unregistered
services for the Public User Identity.
\- if the S-CSCF name sent in the Server-Assignment-Request command and the
previously assigned S-CSCF name stored in the HSS are different, the HSS shall
not overwrite the S-CSCF name. Result Code will be
DIAMETER_IDENTITY_ALREADY_REGISTERED. The S-CSCF shall return a specific error
response to AS. The AS shall resend the request to the I-CSCF.
NOTE: The address of the S-CSCF can be obtained by AS either by querying the
HSS on the Sh interface or during third-party registration. It may happen that
if AS is using third party registration and a reassignment occurred during a
terminating request, AS will have the wrong S-CSCF name.
### 4.5.3 S-CSCF Restoration after Failure
If the application server sends the originating service request on behalf of
the user to the S-CSCF, and the S-CSCF can not be contacted, after timeout,
the application server shall resend the originating service request to the
I-CSCF _._
If the application server sends the originating service request directly to
the I-CSCF, or resends the originating service request to the I-CSCF due to
the S-CSCF can not be contacted, the I-CSCF shall behave as in section 4.3.3.
The S-CSCF and HSS shall behave as in section 4.5.2, except _that the HSS
shall overwrite the S-CSCF name when receiving the SAR request, only if there
is a previous explicit LIR request for S-CSCF capabilities._
## 4.6 S-CSCF Data Restoration Information Backup and Update Procedures
### 4.6.1 Introduction
The following clauses specify the behaviour of HSS and S-CSCF if they support
the IMS Restoration feature.
### 4.6.2 Backup and Update of S-CSCF Restoration Information during
Registration Process
The S-CSCF shall backup the following data in the HSS during the initial
registration process.
\- the list of SIP proxies in the path (normally it would be just the P-CSCF
address)
\- the Contact Information (Contact Addresses and Contact Header parameters)
\- the Authentication Information (SIP-Authentication-Scheme)
The S-CSCF may backup the following data in the HSS during the initial
registration process.
\- the Initial-CSeq-Sequence-Number and the Call-ID used if used for temporary
GRUU generation (see IETF RFC 3261 [18])
This is done with an additional information element in the SAR requesting user
information, in addition to the basic set of information required to handle
traffic, as specified in the 3GPP TS 29.228 [3]. The information is associated
with the Private User Identity and the Implicit Registration Set that is
affected by the SAR request. The HSS shall store this information.
If any of the above data is changed, the S-CSCF shall update it in the HSS
using SAR request with Server-Assignment-Type set to RE_REGISTRATION and t
_he_ User Data Already Available parameter set to USER_DATA_ALREADY_AVAILABLE,
as specified in the 3GPP TS 29.228 [3].
### 4.6.3 Backup and Update of S-CSCF Restoration Information after UE's
Subscription
If the S-CSCF receives the UE's subscription to notification of the reg-event
for the first time, the S-CSCF shall send an SAR to the HSS to store _the
following UE's subscription information._
\- Call-ID, From, To, Record-Route, Contact
_To avoid frequent storing of the subscription information in the HSS, the
CSeq should not be included in the S-CSCF restoration information. Instead,
the CSCF shall ensure that subsequent notification after retrieving this data
includes a sufficiently large Cseq value so that the UE is able to accept it._
This is done with _Server Assignment Type set to_ RE_REGISTRATION and t _he_
User Data Already Available parameter set to USER_DATA_ALREADY_AVAILABLE in
the SAR, as specified in the 3GPP TS 29.228 [3]. The information is associated
with the Private User Identity affected by the SAR request. The HSS shall
store this information.
If any of the above data is changed, the S-CSCF shall update it in the HSS
using SAR request with Server-Assignment-Type set to RE_REGISTRATION and t
_he_ User Data Already Available parameter set to USER_DATA_ALREADY_AVAILABLE,
as specified in the 3GPP TS 29.228 [3].
The S-CSCF shall send the registration data together with the subscription
data as one S-CSCF restoration information. Each time the HSS receives the
S-CSCF restoration information related to the same Private User Identity in
the SAR with Server-Assignment-Type set to RE_REGISTRATION, the HSS shall
overwrite the previous S-CSCF restoration information.
# 5 Recovery after P-CSCF failure
## 5.0 General
The following clauses show the requirements and information flows of IMS
Restoration Procedures for the P-CSCF service interruption in each of the
scenarios where they apply.
Procedures over S9 between V-PCRF and H-PCRF are not supported in this release
of the specification.
## 5.1 Update PDP context/Bearer at P-CSCF failure
These flows show the procedures performed by the network at P-CSCF failure
after user initiated registration..
### 5.1.1 General requirements
The following points are considered as requirements for the purpose of these
procedures.
1\. P-CSCF discovery is performed by requesting and provisioning P-CSCF
address(es) within Protocol Configuration Options (PCO), as specified in 3GPP
TS 29.061 [9], subclause 13a.2.1
2\. The UE supports PCO IE, as specified in 3GPP TS 24.008 [4], subclause
10.5.6.3.
3\. For the GTP based S5 interface, GTPv1, as specified in 3GPP TS 29.060 [8]
or GTPv2, as specified in 3GPP TS 29.274 [10] are supported by the GGSN/PDN-
GW.
4\. For the PMIP based S5 interface, PMIPv6, as specified in 3GPP TS 29.275
[15] is supported by the PDN-GW.
### 5.1.2 Network recovery information flow - Update PDP context / Bearer
Figure 5.1.2a: P-CSCF failure (new list of P-CSCFs in PCO)
1\. The UE initiates an IP-CAN session.
2\. P-CSCF discovery is performed. A list of P-CSCF addresses is received in
CreatePDPContextResponse / CreateBearerResponse within the PCO IE.
3\. The GGSN/PDN-GW sends CCR to request for PCC rules, as specified in 3GPP
TS 29.212 [6].
4\. The PCRF provides PCC rules to be applied in CCA.
5\. The UE performs an initial registration towards a P-CSCF from the received
list.
6\. The P-CSCF sends Rx Push (see 3GPP TS 29.214 [7]) to provide the PCRF with
the P-CSCF selected by the UE.
7\. The PCRF sends Rx Push reponse.
8\. The PCRF uses a Gx push procedure to provide the GGSN/PDN-GW with the
P-CSCF address.
9\. The GGSN/PDN-GW stores this address for the UE and sends Gx Push Rsp.
Also, the GGSN/PDN-GW starts monitoring the health of the P-CSCF if not
already done.
10\. The P-CSCF sends 200 OK to the UE.
11\. A failure in P-CSCF is detected via Gi/sGi by the GGSN/PDN-GW. The
GGSN/PDN-GW sends a new PCO IE with a new list of P-CSCF addresses (which does
not include the failed P-CSCF) to all UEs associated to the failed P-CSCF
address.
12\. The UEs acknowledge the request.
13\. Upon receiving the new list of P-CSCFs, if the P-CSCF in use is missing,
each UE performs an initial registration towards a new P-CSCF.
### 5.1.3 Network recovery information flow with S5 PMIP
Figure 5.1.3: P-CSCF failure with S5 PMIP
1 \~ 10. The IMS session is setup as described in subclause 5.1.2 except S5
PMIP procedure is used between SGW and PGW.
11\. Once a P-CSCF failure is detected via Gi/sGi by the PDN-GW, the PDN-GW
shall send a PMIP UPN message (MN ID, APN, PDN connection ID, PCO, and
Additional parameters) as specified in 3GPP TS 29.275 [15] and IETF draft-
ietf-netext-update-notifications-12 [16]. The PCO contains a new list of
P-CSCF address. The Notification reason shall indicate that update Bearer
Context at P-CSCF failure is needed.
12\. If the SGW supports the PMIP Update Notification message, it shall send
Update Bearer Request message with the new list of P-CSCF address in the PCO
to the MME/SGSN as part of the PGW initiated bearer modification without QoS
update procedure as specified in 3GPP TS 23.401[17].
> Once the Update Bearer Response message is received, the SGW shall response
> with a PMIP UPA message (MN ID, APN, PDN connection ID, PCO, and Additional
> parameters) as specified in 3GPP TS 29.275 [15] and IETF RFC 7077 [16].
13\. If the PGW knows the SGW does not support the PMIP Update Notification
procedure, the PGW shall skip step 11 and release the PMIP binding with cause
code \"Reactivation Requested\".
14\. Upon receiving the new list of P-CSCFs, the UE may perform an initial
registration towards a new P-CSCF.
## 5.2 Inform UE about P-CSCF failure
These flows show the procedures performed by the network at P-CSCF failure
after user initiated registration..
### 5.2.1 General requirements
The following points are considered as requirements for the purpose of these
procedures.
1\. P-CSCF discovery is performed by requesting P-CSCF address(es) via DHCP
method, as specified in 3GPP TS 29.061 [9], subclause 13a.2.1
2\. The UE supports PCO IE, as specified in 3GPP TS 24.008 [4], subclause
10.5.6.3.
3\. For the GTP based S5 interface, GTPv1, as specified in 3GPP TS 29.060 [8]
or GTPv2, as specified in 3GPP TS 29.274 [10] are supported by the GGSN/PDN-GW
4\. For the PMIPv6 based S5 interface, PMIPv6, as specified in 3GPP TS 29.275
[15] is supported by the PDN-GW.
### 5.2.2 Network recovery information flow -- Inform UE at P-CSCF failure
Figure 5.2.2a: P-CSCF failure for DHCP based scenarios
> 1-2. The UE initiates an IP-CAN session.
>
> 3\. P-CSCF discovery is performed using DHCP based method. The GGSN/PDN-GW
> relays/send the list of P-CSCF addresses in DHCP response.
NOTE: The DHCP response can include either a list of P-CSCF IPv4/IPv6
addresses or a list of FQDNs (see IETF RFC 3361 [11] and IETF RFC 3319 [13]).
If P-CSCF FQDNs were provided, the UE uses DNS SIP server resolution mechanism
(see IETF RFC 3263 [12])
> 4\. The GGSN/PDN-GW sends CCR to request for PCC rules, as specified in 3GPP
> TS 29.212 [6].
>
> 5\. The PCRF provides PCC rules to be applied in CCA.
>
> 6\. The UE performs an initial registration towards the P-CSCF received.
>
> 7\. The P-CSCF sends Rx Push (see 3GPP TS 29.214 [7]) to provide the PCRF
> with the P-CSCF selected by the UE,
>
> 8\. The PCRF sends Rx Push reponse.
>
> 9\. The PCRF uses a Gx push procedure to provide the GGSN/PDN-GW with the
> P-CSCF address.
>
> 10\. The GGSN/PDN-GW stores this address for the UE and sends Gx Push Rsp.
> Also, the GGSN/PDN-GW starts monitoring the health of the P-CSCF if not
> already done.
>
> 11\. The P-CSCF sends 200 OK to the UE.
>
> 12\. A failure in P-CSCF is detected via Gi/sGi by the GGSN/PDN-GW. The
> GGSN/PDN-GW informs to all UEs associated to the failed P-CSCF address that
> the P-CSCF is not available.
>
> 13\. The UEs acknowledge the request.
>
> 14\. The UE requests P-CSCF addresses (if needed) via new DHCP request.
>
> 15\. The UE selects a new P-CSCF and initiates an initial IMS registration.
### 5.2.3 Network recovery information flow -- Inform UE at P-CSCF failure
with S5 PMIP
Figure 5.2.3-1: P-CSCF failure for DHCP based scenarios with S5 PMIP
1 \~ 11. Same as figure 5.2.2a step 1 \~ 11
12\. A failure in P-CSCF is detected via Gi/sGi by the GGSN/PDN-GW. The
GGSN/PDN-GW informs to all UEs associated to the failed P-CSCF address that
the P-CSCF is not available.
\- The PDN-GW shall send a PMIP UPN message (MN ID, APN, PDN connection ID,
PCO, and Additional parameters) as specified in 3GPP TS 29.275 [15] and IETF
RFC 7077 [16]. The PCO contains a P-CSCF failure Indicator. The Notification
reason shall indicate that there is a P-CSCF failure.
\- If the SGW supports the PMIP Update Notification message, it shall send
Update Bearer Request message with the P-CSCF failure Indicator in the PCO to
the MME as part of the PGW initiated bearer modification without QoS update
procedure as specified in 3GPP TS 23.401 [17]. Once the Update Bearer Response
message is received, the SGW shall response with a PMIP UPA message (MN ID,
APN, PDN connection ID, PCO, and Additional parameters) as specified in 3GPP
TS 29.275 [15] and IETF RFC 7077 [16].
\- If the PGW knows the SGW does not support the PMIP Update Notification
procedure, the PGW may release the PMIP binding with cause code \"Reactivation
Requested\".
13 \~ 15. Same as figure 5.2.2a step 13 \~15.
### 5.3 Network recovery information flow -- UE uses keep alive mechanism
Figure 5.3a: P-CSCF failure detected by UE
1\. After establishment of an IP-CAN session and acquiring P-CSCF addresses,
the UE performs initial registration towards a P-CSCF.
2\. If registration is successful, the UE monitors the P-CSCF health according
to IETF RFC 6223 [14]
3\. When a failure is detected, the UE acquires new P-CSCF addresses (if
needed) and performs an initial registration.
## 5.4 HSS-based P-CSCF restoration
### 5.4.1 Introduction
The HSS-based P-CSCF restoration is an optional mechanism and applies only
when the UE is using 3GPP access technologies.
When supported, this mechanism shall be executed when a terminating request
cannot be serviced due to a P-CSCF failure, as long as there are no other
registration flows for this terminating UE using an available P-CSCF.
The HSS-based P-CSCF restoration consists of a basic mechanism that makes
usage of a path through HSS and MME/SGSN to request the release of the IMS PDN
connection to the corresponding UE, as described in subclause 5.4.2; and an
optional extension that avoids the IMS PDN deactivation and re-activation, as
described in subclause 5.4.3.
### 5.4.2 Description
#### 5.4.2.1 General
The call flow for the HSS-based P-CSCF restoration mechanism is described in
figure 5.4.2.1-1. The nodes included in this call flow shall execute following
procedures if they support the HSS-based P-CSCF restoration mechanism.
Figure 5.4.2.1-1: HSS-based P-CSCF restoration
1\. The terminating S-CSCF receives a SIP message for a destination UE.
2\. The S-CSCF forwards the SIP message to this called UE's terminating
P-CSCF.
3\. The S-CSCF shall identify whether the called UE's terminating P-CSCF is
not able to process this request, based on received error codes (i.e. the UE
registration data is not present) or no response. In this case, if the
terminating UE uses a 3GPP access technology, the following steps shall apply
to execute the HSS-based P-CSCF restoration. For more information about S-CSCF
failure detection, see subclause 5.4.2.2.
4\. The S-CSCF shall check the registration status of the Public User Identity
associated to the called UE. If the registration state of the Public User
Identity is Registered, the S-CSCF shall check if the Public User Identity is
currently registered with one or more Private User Identities.
\- If the Public User Identity is currently registered with only one Private
User Identity, the S-CSCF shall unregister this Public User Identity by
sending a Cx SAR to the HSS, including a P-CSCF Restoration indication.
\- If the Public User Identity is currently registered with more than one
Private User Identity, the S-CSCF shall send a deregistration request to the
HSS for the corresponding Public User Identity and Private User Identity pair
via Cx SAR, including a P-CSCF Restoration indication.
5\. The HSS shall identify whether the MME/SGSN supports HSS-based P-CSCF
restoration based on feature support information provided by the MME/SGSN as
described in subclause 5.4.2.3, then when the HSS receives a Cx SAR with a
P-CSCF Restoration indication, it shall check whether the serving node(s) for
corresponding user support this feature:
\- if at least one of the serving nodes support the feature:
\- the HSS shall send a P-CSCF restoration indication to the supporting
serving node(s) where the IMSI associated to the received Private Identity is
registered, i.e. SGSN and/or MME, using S6a/S6d IDR/IDA or Gr ISD
request/answer; and
\- the HSS shall perform either the unregistration or deregistration requested
and it shall send a successful response to the S-CSCF via Cx SAA. The S-CSCF
shall set respectively this Public User Identity as Unregistered or this UE as
not registered.
NOTE 1: The S-CSCF can start a P-CSCF Restoration Ongoing Timer to monitor the
P-CSCF Restoration procedure. If the UE performs a new IMS registration before
this timer expires, as a result of the P-CSCF Restoration procedure execution,
the S-CSCF stops the timer. Otherwise, the S-CSCF registers again the Public
User Identity by sending a Cx SAR to the HSS and it stops the timer. The value
of the P-CSCF Restoration Ongoing Timer can consider how long the P-CSCF
Restoration execution may take, and then it can take into account factors like
paging re-transmission timers.
\- otherwise, the HSS shall provide an error response back in Cx SAA to the
S-CSCF.
NOTE 2: In case there is not homogeneous support of this feature in
corresponding user serving nodes, the P-CSCF Restoration procedure may be
triggered as long as one serving node supports this feature, but if the UE is
only reachable in the non-supporting serving node, the restoration procedure
is not successful.
6\. The S-CSCF shall send a SIP response back to the originating side. This
shall be an error response if only one Private User Identity is registered,
since the S-CSCF is not able to progress the request; otherwise the S-CSCF
shall select the best possible response following normal forking procedures.
> Subject to an operator policy, the error response sent by S-CSCF may in
> addition inform the originating side that a terminating request reattempt is
> possible based on timer expiration.
NOTE 3: Steps 4 and 6 above are not required to be in this order, reverse
order is also possible.
7\. Upon reception of the P-CSCF Restoration indication from the HSS, the
MME/SGSN from the received IMSI shall identify if the MM context of the UE
exists and if the UE has an IMS PDN connection context. If either the MM
context or the IMS PDN connection context does not exist, the MME/SGSN shall
discard the P-CSCF Restoration indication without further processing;
otherwise the MME/SGSN shall continue as below.
NOTE 4: GSMA PRD IR.65 [21] clause 2.3 recommends one single IMS APN in case
of simultaneous usage of VoLTE and RCS.
> The MME/SGSN shall check the UE state:
\- If the UE is in ECM-IDLE state, the MME/SGSN shall page the UE.
\- If the UE is initially in ECM-CONNECTED state or when it gets a response
from the UE after paging:
\- If ISR is active, the MME/SGSN shall send a message, via the S3 interface,
to stop paging the UE at the other ISR-associated node; and
\- The MME/SGSN shall execute the optional PCO-based optional extension to
this mechanism as described in subclause 5.4.3, if this optional extension is
supported by the MME/SGSN and by the serving SGW/PGW; otherwise it shall
proceed as below.
NOTE 5: The support of this feature by the serving SGW/PGW is determined based
on the local configuration at the MME/SGSN.
\- The SGSN, or the MME if this is not the last PDN connection of the UE,
shall release the UE's IMS PDN connection towards the UE by initiating a PDN
disconnection procedure with the NAS cause \"reactivation requested\". If this
is the last PDN connection of the UE, the MME shall initiate a detach
procedure with the NAS cause code \"reactivation requested\". Additionally,
the MME/SGSN shall also release the same PDN connection towards the SGW/PGW by
sending Delete Session message (not shown in the figure).
8\. As a result of the release of the IMS PDN connection, the UE shall
activate the IMS PDN connection, select an available P-CSCF and perform a new
initial IMS registration, as per 3GPP TS 29.061 [9].
#### 5.4.2.2 P-CSCF restart/failure detection by S-CSCF
##### 5.4.2.2.1 General
If the P-CSCF is not reachable, the S-CSCF does not receive any SIP response
when it sends a request. In this case, the S-CSCF shall consider the P-CSCF to
be non-reachable. As long as the S-CSCF considers the P-CSCF to be non-
reachable, the S-CSCF shall not try to contact again this P-CSCF for
subsequent terminating requests. The S-CSCF shall consider the P-CSCF to be
reachable as soon as a SIP request, including REGISTER, is received from that
P-CSCF.
Various mechanisms can be used for the S-CSCF to detect a non-reachable
P-CSCF, e.g. keep-alive mechanisms or expiry of timers.
If the P-CSCF is reachable, but it is not able to process the request, it
shall send an error indication to the S-CSCF.
##### 5.4.2.2.2 Direct connection from S-CSCF to P-CSCF
This is the normal case when the terminating user is not roaming.
When the S-CSCF receives a terminating request towards a UE registered to a
P-CSCF that is not considered non-reachable, the S-CSCF shall forward the
request to the P-CSCF. If the P-CSCF does not respond, after a pre-defined
number of retransmissions, the S-CSCF shall consider the P-CSCF to be non-
reachable.
##### 5.4.2.2.3 S-CSCF connection to P-CSCF via IBCF/ATCF
This is the normal case when the terminating user is roaming and there are
IBCFs between the S-CSCF and the P-CSCF. It can also be that an ATCF is
inserted between the S-CSCF and the P-CSCF.
In this case, the SIP node closest to the P-CSCF shall identify when the
P-CSCF is not reachable. It rejects the request with a SIP error response with
an indication that the P-CSCF is not reachable.
#### 5.4.2.3 MME/SGSN mechanism support
If the MME/SGSN supports this mechanism, it shall indicate support of this
feature to the HSS in S6a/S6d ULR. If support is indicated, this information
shall be stored by HSS per MME/SGSN.
### 5.4.3 PCO-based optional extension
#### 5.4.3.1 Introduction
The HSS-based P-CSCF basic mechanism is optionally extended by reusing part of
the \"Update PDP context/bearer at P-CSCF failure\" mechanism described in
subclause 5.1, in order to avoid the need to deactivate and reactivate the IMS
PDN connection.
This extension is based on the possibility for the P-GW/GGSN to know whether
or not the UE supports the \"Update PDP context/bearer at P-CSCF failure\"
mechanism. This is described in subclause 5.4.3.3.
#### 5.4.3.2 Description
This procedure is described by figure 5.4.3.2-1 (for EPC) and 5.4.3.2-2 (for
GPRS). The nodes included in this call flow shall execute following procedures
if they support the HSS-based P-CSCF restoration mechanism.
Figure 5.4.3.2-1: PCO-based optional extension - EPC
Figure 5.4.3.2-2: PCO-based optional extension - GPRS
Steps from 1 to 6 are the same as explained in figure 5.4.2.1-1 above.
7\. The MME/SGSN shall send Modify Bearer Request / Update PDP Context Request
to the P-GW/GGSN for this associated PDN connection with a P-CSCF Restoration
indication.
> The MME/S4 SGSN shall provide this indication to the P-GW via the S-GW. When
> the Modify Bearer Request is received by the S-GW with the P-CSCF
> Restoration indication, this message shall be forwarded to the P-GW.
8\. Upon reception of the P-CSCF Restoration indication, the P-GW/GGSN shall
check whether the UE has indicated it supports "Update PDP context/bearer at
P-CSCF failure\" mechanism, as described in subclause 5.4.4.3:
\- if supported, the PGW/GGSN shall send Update Bearer Request / Update PDP
Context Request to the MME/SGSN with the list of available P-CSCF addresses
within PCO IE to update destination UE. The list of available P-CSCFs may
contain the address of the P-CSCF used by the UE if this P-CSCF has restarted
and is again available.
\- if not supported, the P-GW/GGSN shall release the IMS PDN connection/PDP
context by sending a Delete Bearer Request / Delete PDP Context Request to the
MME/SGSN with GTP cause \"reactivation requested\".
9\. Upon reception of the Update Bearer Request / Update PDP Context Request,
the MME/SGSN shall send an Update EPS Bearer Context Request / Modify PDP
Context Request to the UE, including the PCO with the list of available P-CSCF
addresses; otherwise, upon reception of a Delete Bearer Request / Delete PDP
Context Request, the MME/SGSN shall send a Delete EPS Bearer Context Request /
Delete PDP Context Request to the UE with the NAS cause \"reactivation
requested\", then once the PDN connection is released, the UE shall re-
activate the IMS PDN connection.
10\. The UE selects an available P-CSCF. If the UE has received a Modify EPS
Bearer Context Request / Modify PDP Context Request, the UE shall select one
available P-CSCF from the list for IMS registration and perform a new initial
IMS registration.
#### 5.4.4.3 UE indication of support for \"Update PDP context/bearer at
P-CSCF failure\" Restoration
This optional extension is based on the possibility for the P-GW/GGSN to
identify whether or not the UE supports \"Update PDP context/bearer at P-CSCF
failure\", as described in subclause 5.1 and 3GPP TS 24.229 [19] (subclauses
B.2.2.1C and L.2.2.1C).
The UE shall indicate this capability to the P-GW/GGSN at the activation of
the IMS PDN connection /PDP context, in a PCO parameter as described in 3GPP
TS 24.008 [4] subclause 10.5.6.3. The P-GW/GGSN shall store this UE
capability.
This method has no impact on the MME/SGSN or SGW, as PCO information is
transparently transferred through these network elements.
### 5.4.5 Coexistence with \"Update PDP context/bearer at P-CSCF failure\"
mechanism
If the \"Update PDP context/bearer at P-CSCF failure\" mechanism is deployed,
as soon as a P-CSCF failure is detected, as described in subclause 5.1, it
triggers massive radio signalling first and then massive IMS registration.
Therefore, the HSS-based P-CSCF restoration triggering use case does not occur
in most cases, and benefits are minimal; i.e., in case of coexistence, the
\"Update PDP context/bearer at P-CSCF failure\" mechanism takes precedence
over the HSS-based P-CSCF restoration mechanism in most cases. Hence, if the
optional HSS-based P-CSCF restoration is deployed in a network, the
recommendation is to only deploy the HSS-based P-CSCF restoration.
### 5.4.6 HSS based P-CSCF restoration in roaming scenarios
The considered roaming scenarios are the ones described in 3GPP TS 23.401
[17], clause 4.2.2.
For these roaming scenarios, when the VPLMN and the HPLMN both support the HSS
based P-CSCF restoration mechanism, this mechanism shall be used for P-CSCF
restoration. The HPLMN shall be aware that the VPLMN supports the HSS based
P-CSCF restoration mechanism by signalling from the VPLMN. The HPLMN should
not trigger a P-CSCF restoration otherwise.
For the roaming scenarios when either the VPLMN or the HPLMN does not support
the HSS based P-CSCF restoration mechanism, then the PGW/GGSN which is located
in network supporting the HSS based mechanism, depending on operator policy,
may apply:
\- no P-CSCF restoration mechanism; or
\- another existing mechanism e.g. the \"Update PDP context/bearer at P-CSCF
failure\" mechanism described in subclause 5.1. The PGW/GGSN shall be aware
(e.g. by local configuration) that the HSS based P-CSCF restoration mechanism
cannot be used.
NOTE: The PGW/GGSN identifies the roaming or non-roaming scenario based on the
serving PLMN-ID and IMSI received from the MME/SGSN at the PDN connection
establishment.
## 5.5 PCRF-based P-CSCF restoration
### 5.5.1 Introduction
The PCRF-based P-CSCF restoration is an optional mechanism.
This mechanism is executed when a terminating request does not proceed due to
a P-CSCF failure, as long as there are no other registration flows for this
terminating UE using an available P-CSCF.
The PCRF-based P-CSCF restoration consists of a basic mechanism that makes
usage of a path through an alternative P-CSCF and PCRF to request the release
of the IMS PDN connection to the corresponding UE, as described in clause
5.5.2; and an optional extension that avoids the IMS PDN deactivation and re-
activation, as described in clause 5.5.3.
### 5.5.2 PCRF-based P-CSCF restoration information flow - deactivate PDN
connection/PDP context
The following figures illustrate the details of PCRF-based P-CSCF restoration
information flow.
The nodes included in this call flow shall execute following procedures if
they support the PCRF-based P-CSCF restoration mechanism.
Figure 5.5.2-1: PCRF based P-CSCF restoration
This call flow provides two options for termination call being treated.
Option a) makes terminating UE to be deregistered until next re-registration.
Option b) continues terminating call after successful re-IMS registration.
1\. The S-CSCF receives a terminating INVITE message.
2a. The S-CSCF shall populate IMSI into the terminating INVITE message. IMSI
is maintained in the S-CSCF, which is obtained from HSS when the UE registers.
Then the S-CSCF shall forward the Terminating INVITE message to alternative
P-CSCF. The alternative P-CSCF is chosen by local configuration.
NOTE 1: The IMSI is used by the alternative P-CSCF to find the associated PCRF
associated for the UE. The IMSI information is subtracted in P-CSCF.
2b. The S-CSCF shall populate IMSI into the terminating INVITE message. IMSI
is maintained in the S-CSCF, which is obtained from HSS when the UE registers.
Then the S-CSCF shall forward the terminating INVITE message to visited
network.
2c. If IBCF or ATCF next to the failed P-CSCF has detected the P-CSCF failure,
IBCF or ATCF shall forward the terminating INVITE message to alternative
P-CSCF. The alternative P-CSCF is chosen by local configuration.
3\. The alternative P-CSCF shall send SIP ERROR message to the S-CSCF.
4a. If option a) is chosen, the S-CSCF shall check the registration status of
the Public User Identity associated to the called UE. If the registration
state of the Public User Identity is registered, the S-CSCF shall check if the
Public User Identity is currently registered with one or more Private User
Identities.
\- If the Public User Identity is currently registered with only one Private
User Identity, the S-CSCF shall unregister this Public User Identity sending a
Cx SAR/SAA to HSS. If the response is successful, the S-CSCF shall set this
Public User Identity as Unregistered.
\- If the Public User Identity is currently registered with more than one
Private User Identity, the S-CSCF shall send a deregistration to HSS for the
corresponding Public User Identity and Private User Identity pair via Cx
SAR/SAA. If the response is successful, the S-CSCF shall set this UE as not
registered.
NOTE 2: the S-CSCF can start a P-CSCF Restoration Ongoing Timer to monitor the
P-CSCF Restoration procedure. If the UE performs the new IMS registration
before this timer expires, as a result of the P-CSCF Restoration procedure
execution, the S-CSCF stops the timer. Otherwise, the S-CSCF registers again
the Public User Identity by sending a Cx SAR to the HSS and it stops the
timer. The value of the P-CSCF Restoration Ongoing Timer can consider how long
the P-CSCF Restoration execution may take, and then it can take into account
factors like paging re-transmission timers.
4b. If option a) is chosen the S-CSCF shall send a SIP response back to the
originating side. This shall be an error response if only one Private User
Identity is registered; otherwise the S-CSCF shall select the best possible
response following normal forking procedures.
5\. The alternative P-CSCF shall send an Rx AAR message with the P-CSCF
restoration indication to the associated PCRF, the associated PCRF is found by
UE's IP address (if available), IP Domain (if UE's IP address is provided and
IP address overlapping can occur), IMSI and APN. The APN and IP Domain are set
based on local configuration and additionally referring to the SDP
information, e.g. media field, on the received SIP INVITE message.
NOTE 3: When the UE's IP address is not available, the P-CSCF has to include
both IMSI and APN in the Rx AAR command.
NOTE 4: When IMSI is not available, the associated PCRF for the UE can be
found by IP address of the UE with the condition that there is no IP
translation function in the P-CSCF.
6\. The PCRF shall send an Rx AAA to the P-CSCF
7\. The PCRF shall find the IP-CAN session related to that UE based on the
available information received in step 5 and shall send a Gx RAR including the
P-CSCF restoration indication to the PDN GW/GGSN that has been associated with
that IP-CAN session. In case where the alternative P-CSCF is located in the
HPLMN and the associated PDN GW/GGSN is located in the VPLMN, in this case
both S9 interface and Gx interface are used.
8\. The PDN GW/GGSN shall send Gx RAA to the PCRF.
9\. Then the PDN GW/GGSN shall perform one of following procedures.
\- For 3GPP accesses, the PDN GW/GGSN initiates bearer deactivation procedure
for the default bearer with \"reactivation requested\", if the PDN GW/GGSN has
no knowledge whether the UE supports the \"Update PDP context/bearer at P-CSCF
failure\". If the UE supports the \"Update PDP context/bearer at P-CSCF
failure\" mechanism, step 11 and 12 in the procedure that is described in
clause 5.1 is reused instead.
\- For the S2a and S2b, the PDN GW initiates bearer deactivation procedure to
the trusted non 3GPP access domain and the ePDG, respectively.
\- For the S2c, the PDN GW/GGSN initiates detach procedure.
NOTE 5: For the S2a/b/c, it should be noted that although this procedure does
not request UE to re-attach to the IMS explicitly by signalling, it is assumed
that IMS compliant UE shall re-attempt to obtain IMS service soon after
detached from the IMS service.
10\. UE activates the PDN connection and registers to IMS. As a result of the
release of the IMS PDN connection, the voice centric UE activates the IMS PDN
connection, selects a new available P-CSCF and performs a new initial IMS
registration.
11\. If option b) is chosen, the S-CSCF shall send the suspended terminating
SIP INVITE message to a newly selected P-CSCF after the successful SIP
registration for the UE.
### 5.5.3 PCO-based optional extension
#### 5.5.3.1 Introduction
The PCRF-based P-CSCF basic mechanism is optionally extended by reusing part
of the \"Update PDP context/bearer at P-CSCF failure\" mechanism described in
clause 5.1, in order to avoid the need to deactivate and reactivate the IMS
PDN connection.
This extension is based on the possibility for the P-GW/GGSN to know whether
or not the UE supports the \"Update PDP context/bearer at P-CSCF failure\"
mechanism. This is described in clause 5.5.3.3.
#### 5.5.3.2 Description
This procedure is described by figure 5.4.3.2-1 (for EPC) starting with step
8a and 5.4.3.2-2 (for GPRS) starting with step 8. The nodes included in this
call flow shall execute following procedures if they support the PCRF-based
P-CSCF restoration mechanism.
#### 5.5.3.3 UE indication of support for \"Update PDP context/bearer at
P-CSCF failure\" Restoration
This function is identical to the HSS-based P-CSCF restoration. Refer to
5.4.4.3.
### 5.5.4 Coexistence with \"Update PDP context/bearer at P-CSCF failure\"
mechanism
If the \"Update PDP context/bearer at P-CSCF failure\" mechanism is deployed,
as soon as a P-CSCF failure is detected, as described in clause 5.1, it
triggers massive radio signalling first and then massive IMS registration.
Therefore, the PCRF-based P-CSCF restoration triggering use case does not
occur in most cases, and benefits are minimal; i.e., in case of coexistence,
the \"Update PDP context/bearer at P-CSCF failure\" mechanism takes precedence
over the PCRF-based P-CSCF restoration mechanism in most cases. Hence, if the
optional PCRF-based P-CSCF restoration is deployed in a network, the
recommendation is to only deploy the PCRF-based P-CSCF restoration.
### 5.5.5 P-CSCF restoration in roaming scenarios for PCRF based solution
In a home routed scenario, i.e., S-GW(or any other gateway node) is in VPLMN
and P-GW and P-CSCF are in HPLMN, the PCRF based solution can work sorely
within HPLMN that supports the PCRF based solution, no matter VPLMN supports
the solution or not.
The following procedures only apply to the local breakout scenario.
In roaming scenarios, the VPLMN and HPLMN operators may deploy the same or
different P-CSCF restoration mechanisms, amongst those described in subclause
5.1 (Update PDP context/bearer at P-CSCF failure), subclause 5.4 (HSS based
P-CSCF restoration) and subclause 5.5 (PCRF based P-CSCF restoration),
independently from each other.
The PCRF based P-CSCF restoration can work in roaming scenarios if:
1) Both HPLMN and VPLMN support the PCRF based P-CSCF restoration; or
2) When the HPLMN does not support the PCRF based P-CSCF restoration but VPLMN
does and NAT is not performed.
NOTE: If the HPLMN does not support the PCRF based P-CSCF restoration, IMSI
may not be available on terminating INVITE message.
Alternatively, based on the operator policy or roaming agreement, the VPLMN
can use the \"Update PDP context/bearer at P-CSCF failure\" mechanism
described in subclause 5.1.
For a terminating call to outbound roamers, the S-CSCF may not populate IMSI
to terminating INVITE message if HPLMN knows, e.g. by configuration in the
S-CSCF according to roaming agreements, that VPLMN for outbound roamer does
not support the PCRF based P-CSCF restoration.
#