# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
**The present document contains a study on the potential modifications of the
IMS architecture and stage 2 procedures as required by the support of Web Real
Time Communication (** WebRTC**) clients access to IMS.**
For this purpose the present document addresses (non exhaustive list):
\- Architectural impacts for the support of different kinds of clients
(operator / Third party) in different scenarios.
\- The architecture (including the support of WebRTC clients access to IMS for
clients on a 3GPP UE that are roaming at access level) for following
scenarios:
\- when 3GPP or non-3GPP access is used (common IMS).
\- when the UE is not roaming at access level or when home-routed access is
used (these scenarios have priority for the work).
\- evaluate/study whether IMS roaming architecture is used in case of 3GPP
LBO.
\- Media plane aspects e.g.:
\- architectural impacts related to the use of specific codecs: the study
addresses transcoding aspects but also the case where the use of 3GPP codecs
is possible from the UE.
NOTE: How a WebRTC client / the browser can access to 3GPP codecs on the UE is
out of the SA WG2 study scope.
\- architectural impacts related to media plane security interworking.
\- Authentication and Control plane security related aspects.
\- Charging.
\- PCC aspects.
\- Usage of the 3GPP Packet Core Network to support WebRTC clients access to
IMS.
For example the following points had been studied: the PDN connection / PDP
context to be used by WebRTC traffic especially in roaming cases and the QoS
control, e.g. how a WebRTC client can use the QoS supported / delivered by the
3GPP Packet Core.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[3] IETF draft, draft-ietf-rtcweb-jsep-03: \"Javascript Session Establishment
Protocol\".
[4] IETF draft, draft-ietf-sipcore-sip-websocket-09: \"WebSocket as a
Transport for SIP\".
[5] OMA Work Item 0284: \"RESTful Network API for VVoIP\".
[6] IETF draft, draft-ietf-mmusic-sdp-bundle-negotiation-04: \"Multiplexing
Negotiation Using Session .Description Protocol (SDP) Port Numbers\".
[7] IETF RFC 5761: \"Multiplexing RTP Data and Control Packets on a Single
Port\".
[8] IETF draft, draft-ivov-mmusic-trickle-ice-01. \"Trickle ICE: Incremental
Provisioning of Candidates for the Interactive Connectivity Establishment
(ICE) Protocol\".
[9] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP multimedia call control protocol based on Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP); Stage 3\".
[10] IETF draft, draft-ietf-avtcore-rtp-circuit-breakers-02: \"Multimedia
Congestion Control: Circuit Breakers for Unicast RTP Sessions\".
[11] IETF draft, draft-muthu-behave-consent-freshness-03: \"STUN Usage for
Consent Freshness\".
[12] IETF RFC 5763: \"Framework for Establishing a Secure Real-time Transport
Protocol (SRTP) Security Context Using Datagram Transport Layer Security
(DTLS)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 22.228: \"Service requirements for the Internet Protocol (IP)
multimedia core network subsystem (IMS); Stage 1\".
[14] 3GPP TS 33.203: \"3G security; Access security for IP-based services\".
[15] IETF RFC 6714: \"Connection Establishment for Media Anchoring (CEMA) for
the Message Session Relay Protocol (MSRP)\".
[16] IETF RFC 5389: \"Session Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN)\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project
AF Application Function
API Application Programming Interface
APN Access Point Name
BFCP Binary Floor Control Protocol
CEMA Connection Establishment for Media Anchoring
CSCF Call State Control Function
DTLS Datagram Transport Layer Security
DTLS-SRTP Datagram Transport Layer Security SRTP
eIMS-AGW IMS-AGW enhanced for WebRTC
eP-CSCF P-CSCF enhanced for WebRTC
EPC Evolved Packet Core
Gwebrtc Interface between the WebRTC client and the WebRTC Signalling Function
Gwebrtcm Interface between the WebRTC client and the WebRTC Media Function
GTT Global Text Telephony
HSS Home Subscriber Server
ICE Interactive Connectivity Establishment
IETF Internet Engineering Task Force
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IP Internet Protocol
IP-CAN IP-Connectivity Access Network
I-CSCF Interrogating CSCF
JS Javascript Session
JSEP Javascript Session Establishment Protocol
JSON JavaScript Object Notation
LBO Local Breakout
MSRP Message Session Relay Protocol
NAT Network Address Translation
P-CSCF Proxy CSCF
PCC Policy Control and Charging
PCEF Policy and Charging Enforcement Function
PCRF Policy and Charging Rules Function
QoS Quality of Service
RCS Rich Communication Suite
REST Representational State Transfer
RFC Request for Comments
RTP Real-time Transport Protocol
S-CSCF Serving CSCF
SDP Session Description Protocol
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
SRTP Secure RTP
TLS Transport Layer Security
TNA Trusted Network Access
WebRTC Web Real-Time Communication
WebRTC Signalling Function Mediation function between a WebRTC client and IMS
for the control plane
WebRTC Media Function Mediation function between WebRTC client and IMS for the
media plane
WIC WebRTC IMS Client
WWSF WebRTC Web Server Function
XMPP Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol
# 4 Assumptions and architectural requirements
## 4.1 Assumptions
\- SDP offer/answer exchange is the mechanism used for media plane feature
negotiation.
\- In this release, the architecture does not support media multiplexing that
is defined for WebRTC clients.
NOTE 1: A JS downloaded in a WIC accessing to IMS services is not expected to
allow usage of media multiplexing in the browser. If an SDP offer with media
multiplexing was nevertheless sent to the network the part of the SDP offer
associated with media multiplexing would be removed at the entry of the IMS
network.
\- In this release, WebRTC specific media plane extensions will be handled at
the access edge and will not be propagated to other IMS functions.
\- In this release, in case of a network based interworking between WebRTC and
IMS, for 3GPP and EPC access from a WebRTC client:
\- There is no assumption on the APN being used by the WebRTC client, e.g. the
signalling sent by the WebRTC client may use the same APN than the one used
for plain Internet service.
\- Subject to inter-operator agreement and appropriate network configuration,
EPC/GPRS roaming is supported for WebRTC client access using any available
APN. Either LBO or home routing can be used subject to reachability.
\- Use of available techniques to select preferred access technologies and
APNs, and to provide IP address continuity, are allowed but not described.
\- When the WebRTC client is served by an IP-CAN in a configuration that
supports PCC, it shall be possible to request QoS within the IP-CAN for WebRTC
media.
NOTE 2: To ensure full end to end QoS support, proper IP forwarding policies
should be set in the path between the PGW and the Functions supporting media
interworking to the IMS.
\- QoS can be provided in configurations where the IMS can identify the
transport (TCP-UDP/IP) addresses handled by the PCEF and where based on this
information PCC functions can identify the UE media flows to prioritize.
## 4.2 Architectural requirements
The architecture shall fulfil the following requirements:
\- WebRTC clients shall have access to the IMS through one or more mediation
function(s) for signalling and media.
\- The later normative work on WebRTC shall support WebRTC client access to
the following media protocols (in addition to audio and video): MSRP, BFCP and
T.140.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS if there is a need for a signalling reference
protocol.
Editor\'s note: For 3GPP and EPC access, the assumptions of the underlying EPC
network usage is FFS (including EPC roaming, LBO, APN handling/selection,
access network selection, mobility issues etc).
Editor\'s note: QoS handling for WebRTC is FFS.
The following requirements for the signalling plane between WebRTC and IMS are
defined:
\- The architecture shall support control plane interworking procedures
between a WebRTC client and IMS.
\- The architecture shall support negotiation to ensure that RTP streams are
not multiplexed onto the same port if entities anchoring the session media
path in the IMS domain do not support that capability.
\- The architecture shall support negotiation to ensure that RTP and RTCP
flows of an RTP stream are not multiplexed onto the same port if entities
anchoring the session media path in the IMS domain do not support that
capability.
\- The architecture shall support negotiation of media plane interworking
between WebRTC and IMS.
\- The architecture shall support negotiation of ICE procedures towards the
WebRTC client to enable connectivity checks for establishing the media path.
Editor\'s note: How the user identification is authenticated is FFS.
The following requirements for the media plane between WebRTC and IMS are
defined:
\- The architecture shall support transcoding that may be required for audio
and video traffic.
\- The architecture shall support any necessary interworking between media
plane security mechanisms provided by WebRTC and IMS.
\- The architecture may support (de)multiplexing of RTP and RTCP flows onto
the same port.
\- The architecture shall support STUN for ICE connectivity checking.
\- The architecture shall support STUN for the WebRTC \"consent freshness\"
feature.
NOTE: Any interworking between disparate media plane procedures require e2ae
procedures.
The architecture shall fulfil the following PCC related impacts for WebRTC
media transport:
Editor´s note: The support of trickle ICE is FFS.
# 5 Solutions
Editor\'s note: The solution description needs to be updated to other agreed
requirements.
## 5.1 Solution 1
### 5.1.1 Overview
Figure 5.1.1-1: WebRTC access to IMS
In this alternative depicted in Figure 5.1.1-1, the WebRTC client communicates
at the control plane with an InterWorking Function (IWF), the rtcWeb IWF, via
the Gweb reference point.
The rtcWeb IWF communicates with the P-CSCF via the Gm reference point.
The rtcWeb IWF unit is typically owned by the IMS service provider, but may be
owned by a third party as well.
This alternative has the following assumptions:
\- The webRTC client has a downloaded Java script that supports the sip
webSocket protocol.
\- The rtcWeb IWF shall support all the necessary interworking aspects at the
control plane to interwork with the P-CSCF.
\- The P-CSCF shall support the necessary extensions to support rtcWeb
clients.
\- All interworking aspects at the media plane, in support of the webRTC
client, are implemented within the IMS access gateway, where the media is
anchored.
### 5.1.2 Description of the solution - Procedures
#### 5.1.2.0 General Assumptions
The following assumptions are applicable for this solution:
\- The protocol between the webRTC client and IWF is out of cope.
\- There is a permanent signalling channel to the IWF/WebRTC client.
\- IMS Access Gateway shall support DTLS /SRTP and perform necessary media
adaptation.
#### 5.1.2.1 Registration
##### 5.1.2.1.1 WebRTC client-initiated registration
**Assumptions**
The call flow for this case depicted in Figure 5.1.2.1.1-1 has the following
assumptions:
\- The WebRTC client is aware of the IMS identity (IMPU) allocated to it as
well as the associated credentials. The acquisition of the above by the WebRTC
client is out of scope.
\- Digest-Based authentication scheme is used between the WebRTC client and
IWF, and between IWF and the IMS network.
\- The WebRTC client initiates registration.
\- The WebRTC has only WebRTC subscription with the IMS service provider.
\- The IWF is owned by the IMS service provider.
Figure 5.1.2.1.1-1: WebRTC client-initiated IMS registration
The following is a brief description of the steps in the call flow:
\- The WebRTC client initiates registration by sending a Register request to
the IWF that includes the IMPU as the username.
\- Steps 2 to 6c are identical to a regular IMS registration procedure
according to TS 24.229 [9].
\- In step 6d, the WebRTC client is challenged. Note that in step 4a the
I-CSCF derives the IMPI as specified in TS 24.229 [9].
\- In step 6d, the WebRTC client is challenged.
\- In step 7, the WebRTC client resends the Register Request with the proper
authentication information.
\- The remaining steps are identical to a regular IMS registration procedure.
\- In step 11d, the registration is successful.
##### 5.1.2.1.2 IWF acting as an IP-PBX
In this procedure, the IWF performs third-party registration on behalf of the
WebRTC client.
**Assumptions**
\- The IWF is a regular IMS subscriber.
\- The WebRTC client has an IMS identity allocated to it by the IWF. The IWF
maintains the binding between the WebRTC client user name and the IMS IMPU
identity.
The call flow depicted in Figure 5.1.2.1.2-1 illustrates this case.
Figure 5.1.2.1.2-1: IWF as an IMS user
The following is a brief description of the steps in the call flow:
\- The IWF is a regular IMS user and initiates IMS registration in steps 1
till 10c. These steps are identical to an IMS registration according to TS
24.229 [9].
\- In step 10c, the IWF receives the wIMPU allocated to the IWF within the
ISR.
\- In step 12, the WebRTC client registers with the IWF and includes its
username and appropriate credentials, such as a password. These are access
related credentials.
\- After successful authentication, the IWF creates a binding between the
username and the specific IMPU allocated to the WebRTC client. The IWF then
sends a success response to the WebRTC client.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS whether the allocated specific IMPU by the IWF is
returned to the WebRTC client.
#### 5.1.2.2 Session handing
##### 5.1.2.2.0 Assumptions
The call flows depicted in Figures 5.1.2.2.1-1, and 5.1.2.2.1-2 assumes the
following:
\- The P-CSCF is conformant to TS 24.229 [9] clause 5.7.2.7 (IMS-ALG in P-CSCF
for support for ICE) and thus performs ICE procedures towards the IWF/WebRTC
client. The IMS Access gateway, having via P-CSCF received ICE credentials
from the WebRTC client and having sent its own back, intercepts and responds
to all ICE STUN messages received from the WebRTC client.
\- The IMS Access Gateway shall be able to receive a STUN request for consent
freshness and responds to it.
\- The IMS Access Gateway shall handle audio/video transcoding.
\- The signalling between the WebRTC client and the IWF includes the necessary
addressing information to enable ICE connectivity checks to be performed
between the WebRTC Client and the IMS Access Gateway.
\- The signalling between the WebRTC client and the IWF includes the necessary
addressing information to enable STUN consent signalling towards the IMS
Access Gateway.
##### 5.1.2.2.1 Handling of outgoing sessions
The call flow depicted in Figure 5.1.2.2.1-1 illustrates this case.
Figure 5.1.2.2.1-1: WebRTC client-outgoing session
The following is a brief description of the steps in the call flow:
\- In step 1, the WebRTC client initiates an IMS session by sending a Setup
Session request to the IWF that includes the target user.
\- Steps 2 to 8 follow regular IMS session setup procedures according to TS
24.229 [9].
\- In step8b, the WebRTC client receives a confirmation that session has been
accepted. ACK is not shown for brevity.
\- In step 9, ICE connectivity checks are being performed.
\- Following a successful connectivity check, media can start flowing.
##### 5.1.2.2.2 Handling of incoming sessions
The call flow depicted in Figure 5.1.2.2.1-2 illustrates this case.
Figure 5.1.2.2.1-2: Incoming session to WebRTC client
The following is a brief description of the steps in the call flow:
\- Steps 1 to 6 represent an incoming IMS session to a WebRTC client according
to TS 24.229 [9].
\- In step 7, the IWF sends an Incoming Session Request to the WebRTC client.
\- In step 7b, the WebRTC client accepts the session.
\- Steps 9 to 10b follow regular IMS session setup procedure according to TS
24.229 [9].
\- In step 11, ICE connectivity checks are being performed.
\- Following a successful connectivity check, media can start flowing.
#### 5.1.2.3 Extended role of the P-CSCF to handle interoperability between a
WebRTC client and an existing 3GPP UE
To enable the P-CSCF to handle the necessary media adaptation related to
WebRTC media traffic to enable interoperability between a WebRTC client and a
3GPP UE, the P-CSCF role has to be extended with the following additional
capabilities:
\- At reception of an offer from IWF/WebRTC client that includes information
that the offerer prefers multiplexing an RTP stream and its related RTCP
stream if the answerer also can do this, then the P-CSCF shall downgrade the
offer to not indicate preference for such multiplexing.
\- At reception of an offer from IWF/WebRTC client that includes information
that the offerer prefers multiplexing the offered RTP streams if the answerer
also can do this, then the P-CSCF shall downgrade the offer to not indicate
preference for such multiplexing.
\- The support for DTLS/SRTP.
\- The P-CSCF additionally will handle all necessary changes to the SDP offer
received from the WebRTC client, if applicable, in accordance with operator
policies and supported codecs.
### 5.1.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
This solution limits the changes to the P-CSCF, in terms of the processing of
the offer/answer, and the IMS access media gateway for supporting STUN consent
procedures as well as DTLS/SRTP.
### 5.1.4 Solution evaluation
Editor\'s note: The fulfilment of requirements in clause 4.2 will be
evaluated.
## 5.2 Solution 2
### 5.2.1 Overview
NOTE 1: Over the Gwebrtc interface several protocol options are possible, e.g.
SIPoWebSockets, REST.
NOTE 2: It is an implementation decision whether to implement the WebRTC
Signalling Function as a standalone entity or collocated with an existing
entity such as the P-CSCF.
NOTE 3: It is an implementation decision whether to implement the WebRTC Media
Function as a standalone entity or collocated with an existing entity such as
the IMS-AGW.
NOTE 4: Enhancements to Rx, Gx and Iq interfaces may be required, which is why
the figure 5.2.1-2 shows Rx(+), Gx(+) and Iq(+).
NOTE 5: The architecture the uses 3GPP access via EPC, but in principle the
architecture supports any IP-CAN. Gx(+) might not be applicably for all IP-
CANs.
Figure 5.2.1-1: WebRTC to access IMS services via Mw using EPC
Editor\'s note: The usage of an I2 interface instead of Mw is FFS.
### 5.2.2 Description of the solution - Procedures
#### 5.2.2.1 Functions of the WebRTC Signalling Function
The WebRTC Signalling Function provides the following functions:
1\. The WebRTC Signalling Function shall perform interworking between the
protocol used on the Gwebrtc interface and SIP used on the Mw interface.
NOTE 1: WebRTC does not define a signalling protocol; it just defines that SDP
and offer/answer exchanges must be used, such that the endpoints can agree on
the actual media flows to be exchanged (see draft-ietf-rtcweb-jsep-03 [3]).
2\. SDP mediation
a. Signalling of RTP multiplexing [6]. The WebRTC Signalling Function shall
either negotiate with the UE that RTP multiplexing is not used or shall
negotiate RTP multiplexing towards the UE, but not towards the IMS.
b. Use of the SDP extension for signalling of RTP and RTCP multiplexing [7].
The WebRTC Signalling Function may either negotiate with the UE that RTP and
RTCP multiplexing is not used or may negotiate RTP and RTCP multiplexing
towards the UE, but not towards the IMS UE.
c. ICE handling: The WebRTC Signalling Function shall negotiate the usage of
ICE with the UE. It is anticipated that procedures similar to those described
in TS 24.229 [9] clause 5.7 can be used.
d. Possible support of trickle ICE signalling [8]. The WebRTC Signalling
Function shall either negotiate with the UE that trickle ICE is not used or
shall negotiate that trickle ICE is used towards the UE, but not towards the
IMS.
Editor\'s note: The support for trickle ICE (which is not mandatory but speeds
up session set-up) is FFS.
e. Transcoding: The WebRTC Signalling Function may offer transcoding between
audio codecs used in the UE and used by the IMS.
NOTE 2: It is up to the operator to offer transcoding in other IMS nodes.
f. The WebRTC Signalling Function shall configure the WebRTC Media Function
according to the negotiated capabilities.
Figure 5.2.2.1-1: WebRTC Signalling Function
NOTE 3: References for JSEP in draft-ietf-rtcweb-jsep-03 [3], SIPoWS in draft-
ietf-sipcore-sip-websocket-09 [4], REST in OMA Work Item 0284 [5].
#### 5.2.2.2 Functions of the WebRTC Media Function
The WebRTC Media Function provides the following functions:
1\. The WebRTC Media Function may provide transcoding capabilities.
NOTE 1: It is up to the operator to provide transcoding capabilities in other
IMS nodes.
2\. The WebRTC Media Function may perform RTP multiplexing/de-multiplexing.
3\. The WebRTC Media Function shall terminate DTLS-SRTP and mediate towards
the RTP variant used in the IMS.
4\. The WebRTC Media Function may perform congestion control towards the UE as
defined in draft-ietf-avtcore-rtp-circuit-breakers-02 [10] (using \"RTP
circuit breakers\").
5\. The WebRTC Media Function shall support STUN usage to signal consent to
keep receiving media streams from the remote peer (see draft-muthu-behave-
consent-freshness-03 [11]).
6\. The WebRTC Media Function shall support STUN connectivity checks.
Figure 5.2.2.2-1: WebRTC Media Function
NOTE 2: References for DTLS-SRTP in IETF RFC 5763 [12], Circuit breakers in
draft-ietf-avtcore-rtp-circuit-breakers-02 [10], STUN consent freshness in
draft-muthu-behave-consent-freshness-03 [11].
#### 5.2.2.3 Functions of the PCC framework
The PCC integration is shown in figure 5.2.1-1 above and following functions
are required:
1\. The PCC system is used to support the establishment of bearers for real-
time media of WebRTC users.
2\. The PCC system requires the WebRTC Signalling GW to act as an AF in the
sense of the 3GPP PCC architecture and support the Rx interface - or a variant
of the Rx interface.
#### 5.2.2.4 IMS registration and authentication
##### 5.2.2.4.0 General
The role of the WebRTC Signalling Function is similar to a P-CSCF. The WebRTC
Signalling Function uses the Mw interface towards the IMS.
Editor\'s note: Third Party WebRTC Signalling Function support needs further
study.
Editor\'s note: The WebRTC Signalling Function needs to be renamed to avoid
ambiguity with other solutions.
Two different approaches are described below:
\- The WebRTC client uses SIP over WebSockets to register with the IMS.
\- The WebRTC client performs authentication with the WebRTC Signalling
function and the WebRTC Signalling function performs registration with the
IMS.
##### 5.2.2.4.1 Registration: WebRTC client uses SIP over WebSockets
Figure 5.2.2.4.1-1 shows the registration flow where the WebRTC Signalling
Function performs message interworking for IMS registration and WebSockets are
used between the UE and the WebRTC Signalling Function.
Figure 5.2.2.4.1-1: Registration using SIP over WebSockets (S-CSCF performs
authentication)
0\. The WebRTC client establishes a secure WebSocket connection with the
WebRTC Signalling Function as described in draft-ietf-sipcore-sip-websocket-09
[4].
1\. The UE sends REGISTER, containing the IMPI or IMPU towards the WebRTC
Signalling Function.
NOTE 1: The browser needs to know the IMPI/IMPU.
Editor\'s note: Whether the same or a different IMPI/IMPU is used as for
regular IMS registration is FFS.
2\. The request is being forward from the WebRTC Signalling Function to the
I-CSCF in the home domain via Mw. The request requires that sufficient
information for authentication in IMS is provided.
NOTE 2: Network specific information that the S-CSCF expects in the REGISTER
is the same as for P-CSCF, e.g. visited network identifier, and can be
configured.
3\. The I-CSCF requests the HSS for information related to the Subscriber
registration status. The HSS returns the S-CSCF required capabilities and the
I-CSCF uses this information to select a suitable S-CSCF.
4\. The I-CSCF forwards the REGISTER request to the selected S-CSCF.
5\. As the REGISTER request was sent without integrity protection to the
WebRTC Signalling Function, the S-CSCF shall challenge the request and
requires the necessary information from the HSS.
6\. The S-CSCF selects an authentication vector for use in the authentication
challenge according TS 33.203 [14].
7-8. The authentication challenge is sent in the 401 Unauthorized responses
towards the WebRTC Signalling Function.
9\. The WebRTC Signalling Functions sends the authentication challenge to the
UE.
10\. Upon receiving the Unauthorized response, the UE extracts the relevant
information and calculates the authentication challenge response.
11\. The authentication challenge response is sent to the WebRTC Signalling
Function.
12\. The authentication challenge response is put into the Authorization
header and sent back towards the registrar in the REGISTER request.
14\. The I-CSCF requests information related to the Subscriber registration
status and the HSS returns the\ S-CSCF name which was previously selected in
step 3.
15\. The S-CSCF checks the received challenge response. If the check is
successful then the user has been authenticated and the public user identity
is registered in the S-CSCF.
16\. The S-CSCF informs the HSS that the user has been registered at this
instance.
17-18. The S-CSCF sends a 200 (OK) response to the I-CSCF and the WebRTC
Signalling Function indicating that registration was successful.
19\. The WebRTC Signalling Function informs the UE that registration was
successful.
##### 5.2.2.4.2 Registration: WebRTC client uses Web Authentication
Figure 5.2.2.4.2-1 shows the registration flow where the WebRTC Signalling
Function performs message interworking for IMS registration and HTTP is used
between the UE and the WebRTC Signalling Function.
Figure 5.2.2.4.2-1: Registration using Web Authentication (WebRTC Signalling
Function performs authentication)
1\. The UE starts the web authentication procedure with WebRTC Signalling
Function for requesting registration with the IMS (e.g. using HTTP Digest).
The UE provides a username/password or an access token; the WebRTC Signalling
Function validates them and authenticates the user by means outside the scope
of this specification. It maps the user identity obtained during
authentication to the corresponding IMS credentials.
2\. The WebRTC Signalling Function provides the UA role for SIP REGISTER and
determines the IMPI and IMPU assigned to the user (e.g. via a data base query)
before sending the REGISTER towards the I-CSCF in the home domain via Mw. In
addition the WebRTC Signalling Function indicates that no authentication of
the user by the IMS is required as the WebRTC Signalling Function is part of
the trust domain.
3\. The I-CSCF requests the HSS for information related to the subscriber
registration status. The HSS returns the S-CSCF required capabilities and the
I-CSCF uses this information to select a suitable S-CSCF.
4\. The I-CSCF forwards the REGISTER request to the selected S-CSCF.
5\. As the REGISTER request indicates that the user has already been
authenticated the S-CSCF informs the HSS that the user has been registered at
this instance.
6\. The S-CSCF sends a 200 (OK) response to the I-CSCF.
7\. The I-CSCF forwards the response to the WebRTC Signalling Function.
#### 5.2.2.5 Origination and termination
Origination and termination flows for WebRTC IMS clients follow standard IMS
procedures with the exception that routing of all messages between the WebRTC
IMS client and the S-CSCF traverses the WebRTC Signalling Function instead of
the P-CSCF. No further details needs to be described in this clause.
### 5.2.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
Editor\'s note: Impacts on existing nodes or functionality will be added.
### 5.2.4 Solution evaluation
Editor\'s note: The fulfilment of requirements in clause 4.2 will be
evaluated.
## 5.3 Solution 3
### 5.3.1 Overview
#### 5.3.1.1 Assumptions
In clause 5.3, the word \" UE\" may correspond to a non-3GPP terminal.
This clause include assumptions specific to this solution and are in addition
to those listed in clause 4.1.
\- The UE architecture includes a JS execution environment (typically a
browser) that supports the WebRTC APIs. The WebRTC IMS client is a JS
application that is downloaded from the network as needed.
\- For session signalling between the UE and the network, only the information
exchange needed to enable the supported options for user identification,
authentication and registration in IMS will be standardized.
Other aspects of the signalling protocol between the UE and the network will
not be standardized in Release 12. For example, SIP over WebSockets and
RESTful HTTP are two possible options.
NOTE 1: For ease of specification and similarity to Gm, the call flows
associated with the architecture assume the use of SIP over WebSockets as the
signalling protocol between the client and the network. This does not preclude
the use of signalling protocol alternatives.
\- The web server hosting and downloading the WebRTC client resides within the
home IMS or a supported third party network.
NOTE 2: This restriction is due to the need for a business relationship
between the home IMS operator and the third party to ensure use of a
compatible client application and to establish the necessary security
relationships.
#### 5.3.1.2 Requirements
##### 5.3.1.2.0 Introduction
The following clauses include requirements specific to this solution and are
in addition to those listed in clause 4.2. Only the solution requirements in
clause 5.3.1.2.4 on user identity and authentication are crucial to the basic
architecture. All other solution requirements describe additional
capabilities/characteristics of the architecture that can be modified without
significantly impacting the basic architecture.
##### 5.3.1.2.1 Supported access networks
\- The architecture shall support WebRTC IMS client access from the following
access networks:
\- 3GPP access with 3GPP core (EPC or legacy);
\- Non-3GPP access with EPC;
\- Non-3GPP access without EPC (e.g., NSWO).
\- For signalling and media via 3GPP or EPC access, the WebRTC IMS client
shall be able to use the (\"default\") APN for \"internet\".
\- The WebRTC IMS client shall be able to function regardless of breakout
location (i.e., location of PGW/GGSN) in HPLMN or VPLMN.
##### 5.3.1.2.2 Media processing
\- All media plane flows for WebRTC IMS clients shall be anchored in the home
IMS for Release 12 to enable e2ae termination of media plane protocols not
supported in IMS.
\- The architecture shall support the WebRTC IMS client use of the following
protocols over DataChannels (as defined for WebRTC) and shall support
interworking at the access edge with the transport options supported for these
protocols by IMS: MSRP, BFCP and T.140.
##### 5.3.1.2.3 QoS
\- The WebRTC IMS architecture shall allow for PCC access and control for the
provision of appropriate QoS to WebRTC media flows using the internet APN via
3GPP access networks.
NOTE: Media flows using the internet APN can only receive priority treatment
within the access network and not in the internet. While the access network
without QoS is usually the largest potential contributor to service problems
for media flows, lack of QoS in the internet remains an issue.
##### 5.3.1.2.4 User identity and authentication
\- The architecture shall support the option for the WebRTC IMS client to use
SIP digest for IMS registration and authentication.
\- The architecture shall support the option for the WebRTC IMS client to use
a standard web identity/authentication mechanism for IMS registration, with
the following characteristics:
\- The architecture shall allow either the IMS operator or an authorized third
party to identify and authenticate the user of a WebRTC IMS client for access
to IMS.
\- The architecture shall support use of any standard web
identity/authentication mechanism that satisfies the security requirements of
the IMS operator and/or third party. No particular mechanism will be
specified.
\- The architecture shall support assignment of IMS identities to a WebRTC IMS
client based on the corresponding authenticated web identity. The assigning
entity shall only be able to assign valid IMS identities allocated to it by
the IMS. The method of assigning IMS identities is a matter of local policy
for the assigning entity.
##### 5.3.1.2.5 Service architecture
\- In addition to the support of services provided by IMS, the architecture
shall allow for a third party to optionally provide communication services
that do not require third party bearer plane processing.
##### 5.3.1.2.6 Subscriber data management
NOTE: No special provisions are needed for WebRTC IMS client subscriber data
management since the client can use HTML-based Ut procedures.
#### 5.3.1.3 Signalling architecture
Figure 5.3.1.3-1 shows the WebRTC IMS signalling architecture. The WWSF
(WebRTC web server function) is located either within the home IMS or within a
third party network and is the first web server contacted by the user
(generally by clicking on a link or entering a URL into the browser). The WAAF
(WebRTC Access Aggregator Function) is the endpoint for the signalling
connection from the client and is usually located in the home IMS but can also
be located in the third party network if the WWSF is also located in the third
party network.
NOTE 1: All network entities shown are functional entities and are not
intended to suggest any physical realization. Individual functional entities
(e.g., WWSF, WAAF, and existing IMS functions) may be co-located in any
reasonable combination depending on the absence/presence of a third party.
NOTE 2: The presence of dashed elements in the figure depends on the
configuration. The W2 reference point is only applicable to the web
identity/authentication scenario in scenario 3 of clause 5.3.2.1.1.
PCC functional elements are present only for 3GPP access with QoS.
The corresponding PCC elements for fixed access are also optionally supported
but not shown.
The NAT in figure 5.3.1.3-1 is meant for the access to IMS over a Wireline
Access.
NOTE: W1a and W1b are not meant to be specified.
W3 corresponds to the output of the IETF RTCWEB discussions.
Whether W2 will be subject to specifications is still FFS.
Figure 5.3.1.3-1: WebRTC IMS signalling architecture
Editor\'s note: It is FFS if Gm as shown in the figure conforms to current
specifications.
#### 5.3.1.4 Functional entities
##### 5.3.1.4.1 WIC (WebRTC IMS Client)
A WebRTC IMS Client (WIC) is a WebRTC JS application capable of interoperating
with the WebRTC IMS access architecture defined herein. The WIC application is
downloaded from a web server within the home IMS or a third party network and
provides access to the communications services of the IMS. The WIC shall
function on any device supporting a browser (or equivalent JS execution
environment) with WebRTC extensions via any IP access network with internet
access, subject to the QoS and reachability limitations of the access network.
##### 5.3.1.4.2 WWSF (WebRTC Web Server Function)
The WebRTC Web Server Function (WWSF) is the initial point of contact in the
web that controls access to the IMS communications services for the user. The
WWSF has the following characteristics and functions:
\- The WWSF is located either in the home IMS or a third party network
authorized by the home IMS;
\- The WWSF provides the web page presenting the user interface to the user
for IMS access;
\- The WWSF provides for the downloading of the JS WIC application to the
browser on the UE;
\- If the WIC does not enforce the use of IMS digest authentication for the
user, the WWSF arranges for identification and authentication of the user
using web procedures;
\- The WWSF manages the correct and consistent allocation of authorized IMS
identities to WICs associated with authenticated web identities;
##### 5.3.1.4.3 WAAF (WebRTC Access Aggregator Function)
The WebRTC Access Aggregator Function (WAAF) is the network server terminating
the signalling protocol (e.g., SIP over WSS) from the WIC. The WAAF has the
following characteristics and functions:
\- The WAAF is usually located in the home IMS but can be located in an
authorized third party network if the WWSF is also in the third party network;
\- The WAAF aggregates signalling traffic (e.g. SIP over WSS) from multiple
WICs towards the P-CSCF (e.g. in scenario 3 of clause 5.3.2.1.1);
\- The WAAF can act as the SIP registrar for WICs that are allocated IMS
identities by a third party from wildcard identities assigned to the third
party;
\- The WAAF verifies the correct allocation of IMS identities by a third
party;
\- When located in a third party network, the WAAF can optionally provide
communication services to the WIC in addition to those provided by IMS.
##### 5.3.1.4.4 P-CSCF
The P-CSCF is enhanced to control the AGW functions needed to adapt the WIC
bearer flows for IMS.
The P-CSCF is enhanced with the following characteristics and functions to
support WICs:
\- The P-CSCF resides in the home IMS;
\- The P-CSCF maintains secure transport connections to known WAAF entities in
the home and third party networks;
\- The P-CSCF controls the media plane interworking functions provided by the
AGW, including those additional media plane functions specific to WebRTC.
##### 5.3.1.4.5 AGW (Access GateWay)
The AGW is enhanced to provide media plane interworking as needed for WICs.
The AGW has the following additional characteristics and functions:
NOTE 1: WebRTC only supports audio and video media using RTP transport, and
data media using WebRTC DataChannels. Hence any media plane protocol other
than audio and video must use WebRTC DataChannels or HTTP for transport.
\- The AGW resides in the home IMS.
\- The AGW performs e2ae procedures for media protocols specific to WebRTC,
including ICE, media consent, and DTLS-SRTP.
\- The AGW performs any transcoding needed for audio and video codecs
supported by the browser.
\- When GTT service is requested, the AGW performs transport level
interworking between T.140 over DataChannels and other T.140 transport options
supported by IMS.
\- When MSRP is requested, the AGW performs as an MSRP B2BUA between MSRP over
DataChannels and the other MSRP transport options supported by IMS.
NOTE 2: IETF RFC 6714 [15] describes the CEMA (Connection Establishment for
Media Anchoring) MSRP extension to enable the use of transport-only relays
between MSRP endpoints. Without the CEMA extension, an MSRP endpoint shall
signal an URI or path of URIs through which it is reachable.\ As described in
IETF RFC 6714 [15], since IMS does not require support of CEMA for MSRP nodes,
the architecture requires an MSRP B2BUA to interwork an endpoint using MSRP
over DataChannels with endpoints using other MSRP transport options.
\- When BFCP service is requested for conference floor control, the AGW
performs transport level interworking between BFCP over DataChannels and other
BFCP transport options supported by IMS.
#### 5.3.1.5 Reference points
##### 5.3.1.5.1 W1a (UE to WAAF)
The W1a reference point is between the UE (with a browser running a WIC
application) and the WAAF. Across this reference point, only the information
exchanges required for user identification, authentication and IMS
registration are specified. The signalling protocols on this interface are
otherwise not specified in Release 12 but all procedures shown are based on
the use of SIP over WSS.
##### 5.3.1.5.2 W1b (UE to WWSF)
The W1b reference point is between the UE and the WWSF. HTTPS is normally used
to access the web page providing the UI for the WIC and to download the WIC JS
application to the browser. Across this reference point, only the information
exchanges required for user identification, authentication and IMS
registration are specified.
##### 5.3.1.5.3 W2 (WWSF to WAAF)
The W2 reference point is between the WWSF and WAAF. W2 is only used in
support of third party web identity and authentication, as described in
scenario 3 of clause 5.3.2.1.1. W2 provides for the WWSF to register its
presence with a WAAF so that the WWSF can authorize WICs to contact the WAAF.
W2 is expected to be based on HTTPS.
##### 5.3.1.5.4 Gm (WAAF to P-CSCF)
The Gm reference point is enhanced for application to WebRTC IMS access
between the WAAF and the P-CSCF.
Gm provides for transport of SIP messages between a WAAF and a P-CSCF for all
WICs managed by the WAAF.
Gm is secured using network domain security procedures using IPSEC or TLS.
##### 5.3.1.5.5 Iq+ (P-CSCF to AGW)
The Iq reference point is between the P-CSCF and AGW and is enhanced to
control the additional bearer plane functions specific to WebRTC clients.
##### 5.3.1.5.6 W3 (UE to AGW)
The W3 reference point is between the UE and AGW.
W3 carries the user plane between the UE and the network (see clause 5.3.1.6).
#### 5.3.1.6 Media plane protocol architecture
##### 5.3.1.6.0 General
The AGW is the media plane interworking element with the functions described
in clause 5.3.1.4.5.
The AGW provides e2ae media procedures for ICE, periodic consent, DTLS-SRTP,
transcoding, and DataChannels as needed in support of MSRP, BFCP and T.140.
DataChannel transport is selected over other available HTTP-based options for
transport of all non-audio and non-video media plane protocols to avoid one or
more of the following limitations:
\- HTTP transport options typically will not allow setup of direct transport
connections between peers due to possible presence of NAT/firewall and
probable lack of DNS entries for the endpoints.
\- The forced insertion of an intermediary removes the option of providing
end-to-end media security.
\- Since HTTP transport options are typically not signalled using SDP, a
gateway will need to provide in-band to out-of-band signalling interworking
for interoperation with legacy servers and endpoints that do not support the
transport option.
\- Some HTTP transport options have functional restrictions compared to the
standard end-to-end media transport options. For example, MSRP file transfer
using Restful APIs requires temporary file storage at an intermediary rather
than direct peer-to-peer file transfer.
\- WebRTC mechanisms for ICE, media security, media endpoint identification
and media multiplexing are only available for audio media, video media and
DataChannels.
##### 5.3.1.6.1 Protocol architecture for MSRP
Figure 5.3.1.6.1-1 shows the protocol architecture for support of MSRP from a
WebRTC IMS client.
The AGW provides an MSRP B2BUA to allow interoperation with existing MSRP peer
endpoints.
Use of TLS between the AGW and peer is optional, as indicated by an asterisk
(*) in the figure.
Figure 5.3.1.6.1-1: Protocol architecture for MSRP
##### 5.3.1.6.2 Protocol architecture for BFCP
Figure 5.3.1.6.2-1 shows the protocol architecture for support of BFCP from a
WebRTC IMS client.
The AGW provides a transport relay function from DataChannel to TLS/TCP to
allow interoperation with existing BFCP peer endpoints. Use of TLS between the
AGW and peer is optional, as indicated by an asterisk (*) in the figure.
Figure 5.3.1.6.2-1: Protocol architecture for BFCP
##### 5.3.1.6.3 Protocol architecture for T.140
Figure 5.3.1.6.3-1 shows the protocol architecture for support of T.140 from a
WebRTC IMS client.
The AGW provides a transport relay function from DataChannel to RTP/SRTP to
allow interoperation with existing T.140 peer endpoints. Use of SRTP between
the AGW and peer is optional as an alternative to RTP.
Figure 5.3.1.6.3-1: Protocol architecture for T.140
##### 5.3.1.6.4 Protocol architecture for Voice and Video
Figure 5.3.1.6.4-1 shows the protocol architecture for support of Voice and
Video from a WebRTC IMS client. Transcoding (whether codec1 is different from
codec2) is optional.
SRTP between the UE and the AGW relies on keying material negotiated via DTLS.
Figure 5.3.1.6.1-1: Protocol architecture for Voice and Video
### 5.3.2 Description of the solution - Procedures
#### 5.3.2.1 Registration
##### 5.3.2.1.1 Introduction
The WebRTC IMS architecture supports three different IMS registration
scenarios that differ in the authentication method, type of IMPU being
registered (i.e., with separate HSS entry or as a member of a wildcard IMPU
range), and ownership of the WWSF and WAAF (i.e. home IMS or third party).
**Scenario 1:** The user has a subscription with an individual IMPU and uses
IMS digest to authenticate with IMS. The WAAF is located within the home IMS
and the home IMS trusts the WWSF to perform its services. Clause 5.3.2.1.2
provides detailed procedures for scenario 1.
**Scenario 2:** The user has a subscription with an individual IMPU but uses a
web identity and authentication scheme to authenticate with the WWSF. The WWSF
assigns IMS identities to the user based on the user\'s web identity (e.g.,
via database lookup or other translation). The WAAF is located within the home
IMS and the home IMS trusts the WWSF to perform its services. Clause 5.3.2.1.3
provides detailed procedures for scenario 2.
**Scenario 3:** The user uses a web identity and authentication scheme to
authenticate with the WWSF. The WWSF is located in a third party network and
has a subscription with IMS for a wildcard IMPU. The WAAF registers the
wildcard IMPU with IMS on behalf of the WWSF. The WWSF assigns an IMS identity
to each individual user from its assigned wildcard IMPU. The WAAF acts as the
SIP registrar for WICs assigned individual IMPUs from the wildcard IMPU range.
The WAAF can be located either in the home IMS or a third party network.
Clauses 5.3.2.1.4 and 5.3.2.1.5 provide detailed procedures for scenario 3.
##### 5.3.2.1.2 WIC registration of individual IMPU with IMS using IMS digest
To support WIC registration using IMS digest, the WAAF must be located in the
home IMS.
The home IMS trusts the WWSF to provide the WIC application and redirect the
WIC to the WAAF for service.
The user enters information needed for IMS registration (e.g. IMPI and IMPU)
to the WIC via unspecified means.
For example, this information might be stored in cookies or local browser
storage after visiting a secure web site provided by the IMS operator.
NOTE: The WAAF is restricted to being located in the home IMS for this
scenario to avoid the potential for a man-in-the-middle attack via a
compromised third party WAAF.
Figure 5.3.2.1.2-1 shows a registration call flow where IMS digest is used to
register the WIC.
Figure 5.3.2.1.2-1: WIC registration of individual IMPU with IMS using IMS
digest
1\. From within a WebRTC-enabled browser, the user accesses a URI to the WWSF
to initiate an HTTPS connection to the WWSF. The TLS connection provides one-
way authentication of the server based on the server certificate. The browser
downloads and initializes the WIC from the WWSF.
2\. The WIC opens a WSS connection to the WAAF using standard cross-origin
resource sharing (CORS) procedures to ensure that the WIC originated from a
WWSF authorized to access this WAAF.
3-6. The WIC initiates a registration transaction with IMS via the WAAF by
sending a REGISTER request to the WAAF via the WSS connection. The REGISTER
request includes IMS Digest authentication parameters, IMPI, IMPU and other
information as needed for proper IMS registration. This request is translated
in the IMS Core into an IMS registration process. This process leverages user
credentials in HSS.
##### 5.3.2.1.3 WIC registration of individual IMPU with IMS based on web
authentication
To support WIC registration based on web authentication, the WAAF located in
the home IMS trusts the WWSF to authenticate and assign IMS identities to the
WIC. The WWSF belongs to the operator or to a trusted Third party
NOTE: The WAAF is restricted to being located in the home IMS for this
scenario since IMS must trust the authentication-less REGISTER requests from
the WAAF in step 4 below.
Figure 5.3.2.1.3-1 shows a registration call flow where the WIC registers with
IMS based on web authentication with the WWSF.
Figure 5.3.2.1.3-1: WIC registration of individual IMPU based on web
authentication
1\. From within a WebRTC-enabled browser, the user accesses a URI to the WWSF
to initiate an HTTPS connection to the WWSF. The TLS connection provides one-
way authentication of the server based on the server certificate. The browser
downloads and initializes the WIC from the WWSF. The WWSF authenticates the
user using a common web authentication procedure, determines the IMPI and IMPU
assigned to the user (e.g. via an LDAP query to an identity database {not
shown} using the authenticated identity as key), issues a security token for
the user (e.g. where the security token is a JSON Web Token) and returns the
IMS identities as claims within the security token to the WIC.
2\. The WIC opens a WSS connection to the WAAF using CORS procedures
(http://www.w3.org/TR/cors/,
http://www.w3.org/wiki/CORS_Enabled#What_is_CORS_about.3F) to ensure that the
WIC originated from a WWSF authorized to access this WAAF.
3\. The WIC sends a REGISTER request to the WAAF via the WSS connection. The
request includes the user identity extracted from the claims in the security
token, as well as the security token received from the WWSF as an attachment
to the request.
4\. The WAAF validates the contents of the security token and confirms that
the IMS identities being registered are authorized by the security token. The
WAAF then forwards the authorized REGISTER request to IMS via the P-CSCF to
initiate authentication-less IMS registration. As the P-CSCF trusts the WAAF,
it forwards the registration with an indication that the authentication has
already been carried out
5\. IMS returns a OK response to the WIC to confirm the successful IMS
registration.
##### 5.3.2.1.4 WAAF registration of wildcard IMPU with IMS on behalf of WWSF
In scenario 3, the WWSF obtains control of a wildcard IMPU range from which it
can assign individual IMPUs to WICs. The WWSF is usually located within a
third party network authorized by the IMS operator to grant WICs access to IMS
using the allocated IMS identities. The WAAF acts as the SIP registrar for all
WICs using IMS identities from the assigned wildcard IMPU range. The WAAF
registers each wildcard IMPU range with IMS using either static mode or
registration mode (a la IMS business trunking) so that individual WICs can
receive service based on the registration of the wildcard IMPU. The WAAF can
be located in either the IMS operator network or a third party network as long
as access to service based on the assigned identities is appropriately
verified and restricted.
NOTE: WAAF location in a third party network can enable the third party
network to offer communications services in addition to those offered by the
IMS. Extra security precautions are needed to ensure proper assignment of
identities to WICs and proper IMS service authorization. The definition of
third party services that a WAAF might offer is out of scope.
Figure 5.3.2.1.4-1 shows a registration flow where the WWSF requests the WAAF
to register a wildcard IMPU range on its behalf with IMS.
2 modes are described:
  * A static mode where the IMS identities (wildcard IMPU range) associated with the WWSF are pre- registered (on IMS) by configuration and the WAAF interfaces an IBCF;
  * A registration mode where the IMS identities (wildcard IMPU range ) associated with the WWSF are dynamically registered on IMS and the WAAF interfaces a P-CSCF.
Figure 5.3.2.1.4-1: WAAF registration of wildcard IMPU on behalf of WWSF
1\. The third party WWSF establishes a TLS connection to the WAAF with
bilateral authentication based on server certificates. The WWSF sends a
message to the WAAF requesting that the WAAF register on its behalf with IMS.
The message includes the block of IMS identities associated with the WWSF that
are to be delegated to the WAAF and IMS digest authentication parameters.
2\. In the static mode case, the associated IMS identities are already
registered with IMS by configuration, so the WAAF bypasses steps 2 and 3, and
continues with step 4. In registration mode, the WAAF initiates an IMS
registration transaction by sending a SIP REGISTER request to the P-CSCF and
S-CSCF to register the block of IMS identities asserted by the WWSF.
3\. In registration mode, the S-CSCF returns a digest challenge to the WAAF.
4\. In static mode, the WAAF directly challenges the request in step 1. In
registration mode, the WAAF forwards the challenge received from the S-CSCF in
step 3.
5\. The WWSF resends the IMS registration request to the WAAF with the IMS
digest credentials.
6\. In registration mode, the WAAF sends another SIP REGISTER request to the
P-CSCF and S-CSCF that includes the IMS digest credentials from the WWSF.
7\. In registration mode, the S-CSCF responds with a SIP 200 OK response if
the credentials are accepted.
8\. In static mode, the WAAF verifies the credentials from the WWSF directly.
In registration mode, the WAAF waits for successful IMS registration. After
success in either case, the WAAF sends an OK response to the WWSF to confirm
that the WAAF has successfully registered the block of IMS identities with IMS
on behalf of the WWSF.
##### 5.3.2.1.5 WIC registration of individual IMPU from wildcard IMPU range
The WWSF that obtains control of a wildcard IMPU according to the procedure in
clause 5.3.2.1.4 can assign individual IMPUs from the wildcard range to WICs
under its control. This scenario takes place after the scenario of clause
5.3.2.1.4 and corresponds to the same business arrangement.
Figure 5.3.2.1.5-1 shows the registration flow for a WIC being assigned an
individual IMPU from a wildcard IMPU range assigned to the WWSF.
Figure 5.3.2.1.5-1: WIC registration of individual IMPU from wildcard IMPU
range
1\. From within a WebRTC-enabled browser, the user accesses a URI to the WWSF
to initiate an HTTPS connection to the WWSF. The TLS connection provides one-
way authentication of the third party server based on the server certificate.
The browser downloads and initializes the WIC from the WWSF. The WWSF may
authenticate the user via unspecified means, assigns IMPI and IMPU to the user
from those identities that the IMS operator has assigned to the WWSF, issues a
security token for the user (e.g., where the security token is a JSON Web
Token) and returns the IMS identities as claims within the security token to
the WIC. Unauthenticated users are anonymous to the third party but may still
be authorized for IMS service.
2\. The WIC opens a WSS connection to the WAAF using CORS procedures to ensure
that the WIC originated from a WWSF authorized to access this WAAF.
3\. The WIC sends a REGISTER request to the WAAF via the WSS connection. The
request includes the IMPI and IMPU in the security token, received from the
WWSF as an attachment to the request.
4\. The WAAF validates the contents of the security token and confirms that
the IMS identities being registered are authorized by the security token. The
WAAF also verifies that the IMS identities being registered are assigned to
the third party based either on 1) configuration data identifying the IMPUs
associated with the third party that the WWSF is allowed to assign to users
accessing IMS via the WAAF (e.g., static mode operation) or 2) explicit prior
WWSF request for the WAAF to perform IMS registration of a block of IMPUs on
behalf of the third party (i.e., registration mode operation). The WAAF then
returns a OK response to the WIC to confirm successful registration.
#### 5.3.2.2 Origination and termination
Origination and termination flows for WebRTC IMS clients follow standard IMS
procedures with the exception that routing of all messages between the WIC,
P-CSCF and S-CSCF also traverse the WAAF and that parameters of Iq procedures
take into account the specificities of the procedures used by the WIC to send
media. No further details are necessary.
### 5.3.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
The primary functions impacted are the P-CSCF and AGW, as described in clause
5.3.1.4.4 and 5.3.1.4.5, respectively. The primary reference points impacted
are Gm and Iq, as described in clause 5.3.1.5.4 and 5.3.1.5.5, respectively.
Authentication-less IMS registration as described in clause 5.3.2.1.1 scenario
2 should be able to re-use signalling already defined for registration in the
I2 case (see Trusted Node Authentication (TNA) in TS 33.203 [14]). Small
changes might be needed in the S-CSCF and related reference points to support
the new WebRTC access type.
### 5.3.4 Solution evaluation
Editor\'s note: The fulfilment of requirements in clause 4.2 will be
evaluated.
## 5.4 Solution 4
### 5.4.1 Overview
#### 5.4.1.1 Reference architecture model
Figure 5.4.1.1-1 represents the IMS_WebRTC reference architecture including
interfaces between entities. Detail description of the roles of these nodes
can be found in subsequent clauses.
Figure 5.4.4.1-1 High level architecture for IMS_WebRTC
NOTE: The WebRTC Client can be co-located with an IMS client (i.e. on an IMS
UE) or standalone on a device that does not support IMS UE functionality.
#### 5.4.1.2 Reference points
RTC1 Reference point between a WebRTC client and a WebRTC Signalling Function.
It is used to define the signalling plane interaction between WebRTC client
and WebRTC Signalling Function.
RTC2 Reference point between a WebRTC client and a WebRTC Media Function. It
is used to define the Media plane interaction between WebRTC client and WebRTC
Media Function.
RTC3 Reference point between a WebRTC Signalling Function and a P-CSCF. It is
used to define the interactions between a WebRTC Signalling Function and the
IMS.
NOTE: RTC3 is not required if the WebRTC Signalling Function is incorporated
with P-CSCF functionality.
RTC5 Reference point between a WebRTC Signalling Function and a WebRTC
Portal/Unified Auth System. It conveys the user information stored in WebRTC
portal/Unified Auth System to WebRTC Signalling Function .
RTC6 Reference point between a WebRTC client and a WebRTC portal/Unified Auth
System. It is used to support the authentication of user identity provided by
the WebRTC Client.
RTC9 Reference point between a WebRTC Signalling Function and a WebRTC Media
Function. It is used by WebRTC Signalling Function to control WebRTC Media
Function.
#### 5.4.1.3 Functional entities
##### 5.4.1.3.1 WebRTC Signalling Function
The WebRTC Signalling Function resides in the IMS operator network, as IMS
interfacing functionality to the WebRTC client, has a reference point towards
I-CSCF/S-CSCF (WebRTC Signalling Function is incorporated with P-CSCF) or
P-CSCF (WebRTC Signalling Function is a standalone entity), and the WebRTC
client.
The functionality includes but is not restricted to:
\- Convert the signalling received from WebRTC client (e.g.
HTTP/HTTPS/Websocket signalling) to SIP signalling, and then forward the SIP
request towards the IMS.
\- Support ICE procedures on SDP offer/answer negotiation.
\- Implement a limited STUN server functionality to support the STUN keep-
alive usage as defined in IETF RFC 5389 [16] which is used by the UE to
maintain the NAT bindings. (Similar to the STUN function provided by P-CSCF).
\- Communicate with Policy and Charging Rules Function (PCRF) by Rx interface
to authorize the bearer resources and manage QoS.
\- Communicate with Web portal/Unified Auth System to verify user
authorization and retrieve IMS identities (e.g. IMPU that stored in Web
portal/Unified Auth System).
\- Support of forwarding the message to UE in terminating case.
\- Support existing P-CSCF functionality when RTC3 is removed (i.e. when
WebRTC Signalling Function is incorporated with P-CSCF).
\- Support the registration with IMS on behalf of the user.
##### 5.4.1.3.2 WebRTC Media Function
The functionality of WebRTC Media Function includes but is not restricted to:
\- Convert the voice and video media between SRTP and RTP.
\- Convert non-voice/video media between data channel/WebSocket and MSRP.
\- Support codec transcoding.
\- Support ICE procedures on connectivity check.
##### 5.4.1.3.3 WebRTC portal/Unified Auth System
The WebRTC portal/Unified Auth System is functionality that may be provided by
the IMS network operator or alternatively by a Third party service provider.
The WebRTC portal/Unified Auth System in the network has reference points
towards the WebRTC Signalling Function and the WebRTC client. The
functionality includes but is not restricted to:
\- Authenticate the user identification and then generate user security
information (e.g. Token) for access control.
\- Validate user security information sent from the WebRTC Signalling
Function. The WebRTC portal/Unified Auth System provides the WebRTC Signalling
Function with additional user information (e.g. IMPU) to map to the user
identity used by the WebRTC client in the case where the WebRTC client uses an
identity different from IMPU.
\- Provide the UE with Web-based application JavaScript library and WebRTC
Signalling Function IP address.
### 5.4.2 Description of the solution - Procedures
Editor\'s note: Describes the high-level operation, procedures and information
flows for the solution.
### 5.4.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
Editor\'s note: Impacts on existing nodes or functionality will be added.
### 5.4.4 Solution evaluation
Editor\'s note: The fulfilment of requirements in clause 4.2 will be
evaluated.
## 5.5 Solution 5
### 5.5.1 Overview
#### 5.5.1.1 Reference architecture model
NOTE 1: In the above WebRTC architecture, the WSF acts as an Application
Function to perform the Rx session with the PCRF, and the existing Rx
interface between P-CSCF and PCRF is not used for the WebRTC session.
NOTE 2: In the above architecture it is assumed there exists a trust
relationship between the WSF and IMS core network entities.
Figure 5.5.1.1 High level architecture for IMS_WebRTC
#### 5.5.1.2 Reference points
W1 Reference point between a WebRTC client and a WebRTC Web Server Function.\
It is used to download JavaScript and support the authentication of user
identity provided by the WebRTC Client.
W2 Reference point between a WebRTC client and a WebRTC Signalling Function.\
It is used to define the signalling plane interaction between WebRTC client
and WebRTC Signalling Function.
W3 Reference point between a WebRTC Signalling Function and a WebRTC Web
Server Function.\ It conveys the user information stored in WebRTC Web Server
Function to WebRTC Signalling Function and verifies the security info (e.g.
Token) from WSF and WWS.
W4 Reference point between a WebRTC Signalling Function and a WebRTC Media
Function.\ It is used by WebRTC Signalling Function to control WebRTC Media
Function.
W5 Reference point between a WebRTC client and a WebRTC Media Function. It is
used to define the media plane interaction between WebRTC client and WebRTC
Media Function.
W6 Reference point between WebRTC Media Function and IMS Access Gateway.
NOTE: W1 is provided here for information only and is considered out of scope
of the later normative work.
Editor\'s note: Whether the W2, W3, W5 interfaces need to be specified is FFS.
#### 5.5.1.3 Functional entities
##### 5.5.1.3.1 WebRTC Signalling Function
The WebRTC Signalling Function resides in the home IMS network, acting as the
signalling mediation function between the WebRTC client and P-CSCF.
The functionality of the WebRTC Signalling Function includes but is not
restricted to:
\- Perform conversion between WebRTC signalling (e.g. HTTP/HTTPS/Websocket
signalling) and SIP signalling.
\- Support ICE procedures on SDP offer/answer negotiation.
\- Implement a limited STUN server functionality to support the STUN keep-
alive usage as defined in IETF RFC 5389 [16] which is used by the UE to
maintain the NAT bindings. (similar to the STUN function provided by P-CSCF).
\- Communicate with Policy and Charging Rules Function (PCRF) by Rx interface
to authorize the bearer resources and manage QoS.
\- Communicate with WebRTC Web Server Function to verify user authorization
and retrieve IMS identities (e.g. IMPU that stored in WebRTC Web Server
Function).
\- Support the registration with IMS on behalf of the user.
\- Support forwarding the message to UE in terminating case.
\- Detect if there is NAT between the WebRTC client and WSF and perform the
necessary procedures for NAT traversal (e.g. the P-CSCF procedures related for
NAT traversal according to Annex G of TS 23.228 [2]).
\- Generation of CDRs.
##### 5.5.1.3.2 WebRTC Media Function
The WebRTC Media Function resides in the home IMS network, acting as the media
mediation function between the WebRTC client and IMS Access Gateway.
The functionality of the WebRTC Media Function includes but is not restricted
to:
\- Convert the voice and video media between SRTP and RTP.
\- Convert non-voice/video media between data channel/WebSocket and MSRP.
\- Support codec transcoding.
\- Support ICE procedures on connectivity check.
##### 5.5.1.3.3 WebRTC Web Server Function
The WebRTC Web Server Function may be provided by the home IMS operator or
alternatively by a Third party service provider that is trusted and authorised
by the home IMS operator to provide users with the service of WebRTC accessing
IMS.
The functionality of the WebRTC Web Server Function includes but is not
restricted to:
\- Authenticate the user identification and then generate user security
information (e.g. Token) for access control.
\- Validate user security information sent from the WebRTC Signalling
Function. The WebRTC Web Server Function provides the WebRTC Signalling
Function with additional user information (e.g. IMPU) to map to the user
identity used by the WebRTC client in the case where the WebRTC client uses an
identity different from IMPU.
\- Provide the UE with Web-based application JavaScript library and WebRTC
Signalling Function IP address.
### 5.5.2 Description of the solution - Procedures
#### 5.5.2.0 General
The following clauses describe the high-level operation, procedures and
information flows for the solution described above in clause 5.5.1.
#### 5.5.2.1 Registration
##### 5.5.2.1.1 Introduction
The scenarios of this solution are depicted as follows, mainly categorized by
the type of identities used to access to IMS.
**Scenario 1:** The WebRTC client is an IMS subscriber, and uses operator
provided credentials:
> \- Using web identities to access to WebRTC service. In this scenario, the
> authentication of username is done in the operator provided WWS and also the
> mapping between IMS identities and Web identities are stored in operator
> provided WWS. Clause 5.5.2.1.2.1 provides detailed procedure to this
> scenario.
>
> \- Using IMS credential to access to WebRTC service. In this scenario, the
> authentication of username is done in the IMS network. Clause 5.5.2.1.2.2
> provides detailed procedure to this scenario.
**Scenario 2:** The WebRTC client uses a web identity. The WebRTC Web Server
belongs to the enterprise domain. The operator assigns a range of IMPUs to the
WWS and the registration will be done by the WWS on behalf of its users.
Clause 5.5.2.1.3 provides detailed procedure to this scenario.
##### 5.5.2.1.2 Registration procedures using operator provided credentials
##### 5.5.2.1.2.0 General {#general-3 .H6}
In this scenario, the user uses operator provided credentials to login to the
WebRTC server. The operator provided credentials can be either operator
provided Web identities or IMS credentials.
##### 5.5.2.1.2.1 Registration using operator provided Web identification
{#registration-using-operator-provided-web-identification .H6}
Figure 5.5.2.1.2.1.1 shows the registration flow when a WebRTC client
registers with operator provided Web identification based on web
authentication.
Figure 5.5.2.1.2.1-1 Registration using Operator provided Web ID
1-3. The user inputs the WebRTC Web Server URL to the WebRTC-capable browser,
and downloads the WebRTC JavaScript from the WebRTC Web Server. Then the User
login with the operator provided Web ID and password, the WebRTC Web Server
authenticates the Web ID according to existing web authentication procedures,
returns the security information (e.g. token) to the WebRTC client.
4\. The WebRTC client opens the security WebSocket between the WebRTC client
and the WebRTC signalling function.
NOTE 1: The WebSocket can be opened after successful completion of
registration procedures if the signalling protocol between the WebRTC client
and WSF is not dependent on WebSocketS.\ Step 4 is necessary when for example
SIP over WebSocketS is used to send a SIP request from the WebRTC client to
the WSF.
5\. The WebRTC client sends the Register request to the WebRTC Signalling
Function via WebSoceketS, including the token received from WWS.
6-7. Upon receipt of the Register request, the WSF sends a message to WWS to
verify the token. After validating the token, the WWS determines the IMPU/IMPI
assigned to the user by querying a database (e.g. the WWS or a standalone
entity {not shown}) which the mapping of Web identities and IMPUs/IMPIs are
stored, returns the IMPU and IMPI mapped to the operator provided Web ID. As
an alternative to the message flow in steps 6-7, token verification can occur
via other methods, for example, an encryption method.
NOTE 2: The WWS doesn\'t need to return IMPU and IMPI in step 7, if the WWS
returns the IMS identities as claims within the security information (e.g.
token) in step 3 and the Register request in step 5 includes IMPU and IMPI
extracted from the token.
8-9. The WSF forwards the Register request to IMS via the P-CSCF to initiate
IMS registration after the validation from the WWS.
Editor\'s note: The authentication mechanism between the WSF and S-CSCF used
in steps 8-9 is for FFS.
10-12. The S-CSCF returns 200 OK to the WebRTC client to confirm successful
IMS registration.
##### 5.5.2.1.2.2 Registration using IMS credential {#registration-using-ims-
credential .H6}
Figure 5.5.2.1.2.2-1 shows the registration flow when a WebRTC client
registers with IMS credential. In the below call flow, it is assumed that the
WebRTC Web Server belongs to the IMS operator or a trusted entity.
Figure 5.5.2.1.2.2-1 Registration using IMS credential
1-3. The user inputs the WebRTC Web Server URL to the WebRTC-capable browser,
and downloads the WebRTC JavaScript from the WebRTC Web Server. Then the User
login with IMS credential and password. The WebRTC Web Server checks that it
cannot authenticate the IMS credential for the reason that there is no
authentication information and returns response to the WebRTC client to
indicate that the authentication needs to be done in IMS core.
NOTE 1: If the WebRTC client differentiates between Web ID and IMPU (for
example different input fields), steps 2 and 3 can be omitted and IMS
credentials are included in the Register request of step 5.
4\. The WebRTC client opens the security WebSocket between the WebRTC client
and the WebRTC signalling function.
NOTE 2: The WebSocket can be opened after successful completion of
registration procedures if the signalling protocol between the WebRTC client
and WSF is not dependent on WebSocketS. Step 4 is necessary when for example
SIP over WebSocketS is used to send a SIP request from the WebRTC client to
the WSF.
5-7. The WebRTC client sends the Register request to IMS via the WebRTC
Signalling Function via WebSoceketS. The Register request includes IMS Digest
authentication parameters, IMPI, IMPU and other information as needed to
access IMS.
8-11. The S-CSCF initiates normal authentication procedure and send a 401
message towards WSF. On receiving a 401 (Unauthorized) response to the
REGISTER request, the WSF will behave according to existing UE procedures when
UE receives a 401.
NOTE 3: The response of the 401 auth_challenge to the WSF makes the client
simpler and removes the dependency on the client to support specific
authentication mechanisms.
NOTE 4: If SIP (SIP over WebSocketS) is supported by the WebRTC client, the
401 auth_challenge can be sent towards the WebRTC client, else the WSF is
required to store additional user credential information if the 401
auth_challenge is terminated by the WSF.
Editor\'s note: Whether or not the above procedure where the 401auth_
challenge is not sent to the WebRTC client causes a security issue is FFS.
> 12-14. The S-CSCF returns 200 OK to the WebRTC client to confirm successful
> IMS registration.
##### 5.5.2.1.3 Registration of IMPU range by WWS
##### 5.5.2.1.3.1 General {#general-4 .H6}
The following clauses describe the scenario where the WebRTC Web Server
belongs to the enterprise domain.
The operator assigns a range of IMPUs to the WWS and the registration will be
done by the WWS on behalf of its users. WebRTC client uses a web identity.
##### 5.5.2.1.3.2 Registration of IMPU range when WWS registers on behalf of
its users {#registration-of-impu-range-when-wws-registers-on-behalf-of-its-
users .H6}
The WWS obtains a block of IMS identities which will be assigned to individual
client. The WWS is usually located in third party network authorized by the
IMS operator.
Figure 5.5.2.1.3.2-1 shows the registration flow when the IMS identities are
managed by WWS and the WWS registers on behalf of its users. These steps are
for the WWS to register a set of identities with the IMS and that this can
happen at any time before the user registration, i.e. when the WWS is deployed
for example.
Figure 5.5.2.1.3.2-1 Registration of IMPU range Web ID when WWS registers on
behalf of its users
1\. The WWS initiates an IMS registration procedure by sending a Register
request to the WSF requesting that the WSF register on its behalf with IMS.
The message includes the block of IMS identities associated with the WWS and
IMS digest authentication parameters.
2-3. In the static mode, the associated IMS identities are already registered
with IMS by configuration, so the WSF bypasses steps 2 to 5, and continues
with step 6. In registration mode, the WSF initiates an IMS registration
transaction by sending a Register request to the P-CSCF and S-CSCF to register
the block of IMS identities asserted by the WWS.
4\. In registration mode, the S-CSCF returns a 401 Auth_Challenge to the WSF.
5-6. In static mode, the WSF directly challenges the request in step 1. In
registration mode, the WSF forwards the challenge received from the S-CSCF.
7\. The third party WWS resends the Register request to the WSF with the IMS
digest credentials.
8-9. In registration mode, the WSF sends another Register request to the
P-CSCF and S-CSCF that includes the IMS credentials from the WWS. And the
S-CSCF authenticates as normal procedure.
10-11. In registration mode, the S-CSCF responds with a 200 OK message if the
credentials are accepted.
12\. In static mode, the WSF verifies the credentials from the WWS directly.
In registration mode, the WSF waits for successful IMS registration. After
success in either case, the WSF sends a 200 OK response to the WWS to confirm
that the block of IMS identities has successfully registered.
##### 5.5.2.1.3.3 WebRTC Client registration of individual IMPU from wildcard
IMPU range {#webrtc-client-registration-of-individual-impu-from-wildcard-impu-
range .H6}
Based on the procedure in clause 5.5.2.1.3.2, the WWS can assign individual
IMPUs from the block of IMPUs to WebRTC clients under its control.
Figure 5.5.2.1.3.3-1 shows the registration flow for a WebRTC client being
assigned an individual IMPU from a block of IMPU range assigned to the WWS.
Figure 5.5.2.1.3.3-1 WebRTC Client registration of individual IMPU from
wildcard IMPU range
1-3. The user inputs the third party WebRTC Web Server URL to the WebRTC-
capable browser, and downloads the WebRTC JavaScript from the WebRTC Web
Server. Then the user login with the third party provided Web ID and password.
The WWS authenticates the Web ID according to existing web authentication
procedures and returns the security information (e.g. token) to the WebRTC
client.
4\. The WebRTC client opens the security WebSocket between the WebRTC client
and the WebRTC signalling function.
NOTE 1: The WebSocket can be opened after successful completion of
registration procedures if the signalling protocol between the WebRTC client
and WSF is not dependent on WebSocketS. Step 4 is necessary when for example
SIP over WebSocketS is used to send a SIP request from the WebRTC client to
the WSF.
5\. The WebRTC client sends the Register request to the WebRTC Signalling
Function via WebSoceketS, including the token received from WWS.
6-7. Upon receipt of the Register request, the WSF sends a message to the WWS
to check if the token is valid. After validating the token, the WWS determines
the IMPU/IMPI assigned to the user by querying a database (e.g. the WWS or a
standalone entity {not shown}) which the mapping of Web identities and
IMPUs/IMPIs are stored, returns the IMPU and IMPI mapped to the operator
provided Web ID. The WSF also verifies that the IMS identities being
registered are assigned to the third party based on the procedure depicted in
clause 5.5.2.1.3.2 either in static mode operation or in registration mode
operation. As an alternative to the message flow in steps 6-7, token
verification can occur via other methods, for example, an encryption method.
NOTE 2: The WWS doesn\'t need to return IMPU and IMPI in step 7, if the WWS
returns the IMS identities as claims within the security information (e.g.
token) in step 3 and the Register request in step 5 includes IMPU and IMPI
extracted from the token.
8\. The WebRTC Signalling Function sends 200 OK to the WebRTC client to
confirm successful IMS registration.
### 5.5.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
> Editor\'s note: Impacts on existing nodes or functionality will be added.
### 5.5.4 Solution evaluation
> Editor\'s note: The fulfilment of requirements in clause 4.2 will be
> evaluated.
## 5.6 Solution 6
### 5.6.1 Overview
Figure 5.6.1-1 shows an IP PBX emulation architecture with standard IMS
business trunking interfaces. The WebRTC signalling and media mediation
functions provide interworking between the WebRTC client and standard IMS
signalling and media protocols. The UE can be of any type, supporting any IP-
CAN(s), including EPC roaming options. The WebRTC client on the UE, the PBX
emulation functions, and the interfaces between the UE and the PBX emulation
functions are unspecified by 3GPP except for the signalling and media
interfaces to IMS functions shown in the figure.
The functions providing PBX emulation can be located anywhere within an
enterprise, a third party network or within the operator network. Since the
functions providing PBX emulation conform to standard IMS business trunking
interfaces, there is no impact to IMS. In particular, the WebRTC signalling
function ensures that SIP on Gm or Ici is conformant to IMS SIP for business
trunking on these interfaces. Media extensions not supported by IMS (e.g.
unsupported codecs, trickle ICE, consent signalling, DTLS-SRTP) are terminated
by the WebRTC media function.
The media protocols seen at the AGW or TrGW need to be IMS compliant.
The functions providing PBX emulation register blocks of IMS user identities
with IMS using either static mode or registration mode.
IMS has no knowledge of individual WebRTC clients and no responsibility to
provide services such as security, identity, individual registration state, or
QoS, directly to the clients. The clients are authenticated by the PBX
emulation functions. The PBX emulation functions perform a role equivalent to
a SIP registrar for individual clients.
The PBX might provide communication services to the clients before forwarding
signalling associated with the clients to/from IMS.
Since the PBX emulation functions must anchor media to provide the necessary
e2ae media procedures, IMS cannot provide QoS via Rx on the P-CSCF. The PBX
emulation functions might directly use an OMA REST or XML interface to PCC for
QoS, bypassing IMS, but the details are out of scope.
{width="6.506944444444445in" height="3.1479166666666667in"}
NOTE: The vertical line depicts the split between IMS and the non-IMS world
and does not mean any ownership of the PBX emulation functions.
Figure 5.6.1-1: WebRTC PBX emulation architecture
### 5.6.2 Description of the solution - Procedures
The PBX emulation functions register blocks of IMS identities with IMS using
either static mode or registration mode for business trunking.
The PBX emulation functions are responsible for all interaction with the
WebRTC client, such as client download, authentication, location tracking for
service terminations, and arranging for QoS, where possible. Detailed QoS
procedures are out of scope.
The PBX emulation functions provide signalling and media interfaces that
conform to standard IMS business trunking interfaces and procedures.
### 5.6.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
This solution re-uses the existing enterprise trunking solutions for IMS.
### 5.6.4 Solution evaluation
Editor\'s note: The fulfilment of requirements in clause 4.2 will be
evaluated.
## 5.7 Solution 7
### 5.7.1 Overview
#### 5.7.1.1 Assumptions
This clause include assumptions specific to this solution and are in addition
to those listed in clause 4.1.
\- The UE architecture includes a JS execution environment that supports the
WebRTC APIs.
\- The UE architecture includes an IMS client. The UE can register for IMS
based services in the HPLMN. The solution requires neither modifications to
IMS specification nor modifications to IMS functions deployed in the network.
\- The browser may or may not support 3GPP codecs (AMR-WB/NB, H.264) in
addition to those defined by IETF WebRTC. In case the browser does not support
3GPP codecs, the UE needs to implement transcoding from/to WebRTC codecs and
3GPP codecs.
\- The web server providing the HTML and the WebRTC App resides in the HPLMN
as an operator provided service.
\- This UE based solution does not require browser customizations (beyond the
support of 3GPP codecs, refer to clause 5.7.3), instead it keeps a generic Web
Browser.
#### 5.7.1.2 High level architecture
Figure 5.7.1.2-1 shows an architecture with WebRTC signalling and media
mediation functions located within a custom application on the UE. These
mediation functions provide interworking between the WebRTC client and
standard IMS signalling and media protocols.
The UE can be of any type, supporting any IP-CAN(s), and the WebRTC client can
have access to capabilities available to a native IMS client on the device,
and has the same restrictions.
Since the UE configuration uses a standard IMS client on the device, there is
no impact to the IMS network.
In particular, the UE provides Gm and media interfaces fully compliant to the
standard IMS interfaces.
Since the WebRTC client has access to all of the functions of a native IMS
client, webRTC services running on the UE benefit from the following
characteristics:
\- Access to a UICC that might be present in the device for IMS credentials.
\- IMS can authenticate and register the WebRTC client using standard IMS
registration procedures according to the IMS subscription information in the
UICC, if present, or as otherwise presented depending on the type of UE.
\- The UE can be configured for all IMS functions appropriate to a native IMS
client, including APN selection (i.e. IMS APN), IMS roaming, Gm ciphering,
SRVCC, QoS, etc.
Due to the above characteristics, this solution cannot address all of the use
cases described for WebRTC IMS access in TS 22.228 [13]. The solution only
provides WebRTC access for IMS subscribers using existing IMS procedures, in
particular existing IMS authentication procedures. The solution cannot provide
for web authentication options and cannot support allocation of IMS identities
to WebRTC clients by a third party.
Figure 5.7.1.2-1 WebRTC IMS client emulation architecture
The following functions shall be supported on the device:
**-** WebRTC **Web Proxy (WWPF).**
There is no generic browser nowadays that has an interface through which it
may access the IMS credentials on a UE. In order to allow a mechanism that
permits a user to certify to a web server using IMS credentials and with no
browser modifications, the solution proposes a two steps approach based on a
new terminal component: WebRTC Web Proxy Function (WWPF). The role of the WWPF
is to act as a middle layer between the WWSF component detailed in clause
5.3.1.3 and the local IMS client. It provides the IMS based credentials in the
authentication exchange with the Web Server without requiring changes in the
generic browser. WWPF implements basic web proxy functionalities and it
interacts with the IMS client on the device as well as with the generic
browser.
Editor\'s note: How the HTTP proxy can modify the HTTPS content when TLS is
used is FFS.
**-** WebRTC **Signalling Function (SIF).**
In this approach, the key information that needs to be exchanged is the
multimedia session description, which specifies the necessary transport and
media configuration information necessary to establish the media plane.
Although JSEP allows a large flexibility regarding the signalling plane that
may be used there are currently one signalling protocol that may be good
contenders to be used in the context of WebRTC operator provided services:
SIP. In the case of SIP, the SIF function is a simple pass-through, while if
SIP is not used, SIF needs to do the conversion between the JSEP SDP
offer/answer and the SIP SDP that is carried over the IMS infrastructure.
**\- RTC Media Interworking Function (RMF).**
The media mediation on the UE must be treated based on two scenarios: a)
operator controlled cases in which the web page is provided by the operator or
is on a server under the operator control and b) Third party or OTT cases in
which the operator does not have the control of the original JS download.
This solution addresses the Operator controlled cases and it may require
either:
1\. use UE-based DNS proxy to resolve TURN server to local UE-hosted instance
or
2\. use operator DNS to resolve TURN server to local UE-hosted instance.
The communication channel for WebRTC assumes SRTP to be used by each peer. In
order to allow the operator to have control of the media that it is exchanged
over the channel, the RMF function must be able to access the SRTP data and
convert it into a format supported by the operator.
### 5.7.2 Description of the solution - Procedures
#### 5.7.2.0 General
This clause describes the high-level operation, procedures and information
flows for the solution.
The UE-resident functions providing IMS features authenticate and register IMS
identities associated with an IMS subscription according to standard IMS UE
procedures.
The UE-resident functions have access to all capabilities available to a
native IMS client on the device, including APN selection (i.e. IMS APN), IMS
roaming, Gm ciphering, SRVCC, QoS, etc.
The UE-resident functions provide signalling and media interfaces that conform
to a standard native IMS client.
An example of how user registration onto IMS may work is shown in following
figure:
{width="4.5in" height="4.15625in"}
Figure 5.7.2-1: Web RTC authentication using IMS credentials
The WebRTC client in this scenario uses its IMS credentials to authenticate
itself although the Web browser on the device does not have an interface to
the IMS credentials. The following steps are followed in the interaction
between the WebRTC client when accesses a web page as it is shown in Figure
5.7.2-1.
1\. The JS above the Generic Web Browser initiates WebRTC app access to HTTP
Operator Server ; the request is redirected to the local HTTP proxy.
2\. HTTP Redirection to local HTTP proxy/client (in the WebRTC Signalling
Function).
3\. Request made to local HTTP proxy/client (in the WebRTC Signalling
Function) as a result of HTTP Redirect.
4\. Authentication follows: AKAv1, AKAv2 over the IMS network.
5\. IMS client retrieves UICC credentials : CK, IK.
6\. Once client is authenticated, the local HTTP proxy/client (in the WebRTC
Signalling Function) request for RTC Page.
7\. RTC Page delivered over HTTP.
8\. RTC Page is delivered to the Generic Web Browser on the UE device.
#### 5.7.2.1 ICE procedure and candidate list buildup
The JavaScript in the RTC Page provided at Step 8 of the Procedure detailed in
Figure 5.7.2-1 shall contain at least the address of a STUN proxy or TURN
proxy. The address of the STUN or TURN proxy, or both must be solved to a
local IP address or to an IP alias that may be associated in all cases for
this type of functionality. In a first step the webRTC application tries to
identify using the STUN proxy the type of connectivity available for each
local IP interface. If the only available connectivity is through a symmetric
NAT then the WebRTC application is using TURN proxy for an allocation. In
operator controlled cases the traffic is redirected through TURN proxy. The
detailed steps are shown below:
Step 0: Load UE STUN/TURN/DNS Proxy. Load WebRTC application and Initiate ICE
candidate gathering.
Step 1: Solve the STUN and/or TURN FQDN to a local STUN and/or TURN proxy IP.
Step 2: On STUN UE proxy for operator controlled cases the ICE initiates TURN
allocation TURN allocation.
Step 3: In operator controlled case, authenticate UE against UE TURN proxy; in
OTT case with IMS peer, skip TURN authentication. Allocate media resources on
TURN server.
Step 4: On UE TURN proxy: on ICE connectivity checks, use IMS network to check
availability on TURN peer proxy.
#### 5.7.2.2 WebRTC call flow
Figure 5.7.2.2-1: End to end connectivity on operator controlled WebRTC
Each of the terminal devices creates the candidate build up list as described
in clause5.7.2.1. The two peers use SDP attributes to exchange the candidates
on each part of the connection through a sequence of INVITE/183Session In
Progress/PRACK/200OK/ messages. At the end of the exchange the media
transmission path is established between the peers. An example of this
exchanged is detailed in Figure 5.7.2.2-2.
Figure 5.7.2.2-2: ICE Candidate and Media exchange between peers
#### 5.7.2.3 Media Interworking Function -- Transcoding free operation
Many of the 3GPP terminal devices have built-in support for audio/video
encoding/decoding functionalities, A web browser should support 3GPP codecs.
If the browser does not support 3GPP codecs the MIF function provides the
conversion functionality.
### 5.7.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
The impact on the existing nodes is discussed in clause 5.7.4.
### 5.7.4 Solution evaluation
The proposed solution does not require changes either in ICE procedure, WebRTC
app or web browser capabilities.
The proposed solution shows one mechanism of implementing signalling and media
interworking of WebRTC traffic within a device. There could be other
implementation specific architectures to achieve similar interworking.
The solution allows the reuse of IMS credentials and IMS authentication
mechanisms already standardized in the 3GPP.
The solution does not require any changes to the operators IMS Core Network.
It uses UE STUN proxy and/or TURN proxy. It requires a local DNS proxy or DNS
custom function in the operator network.
It forces ICE to use UE internal TURN server to achieve direct UDP
connectivity over IMS . The UE-based STUN/TURN proxy embeds IMS client
signalling functionality. The TURN component acts as a redirection mechanism
of the WebRTC traffic toward the IMS connectivity.
In operator controlled cases, if IMS infrastructure is being used peers may be
able to control the use of SRTP. The DNS proxy resolves the operator provided
STUN/TURN server to local UE-hosted instance.
On the media path this Solution proposes that the browser should support all
the 3GPP codecs available on the device. If there is no browser support for
this codecs this Solution uses MIF.
# 6 Evaluation
Editor\'s note: This clause contains the overall evaluation of various
solutions.
# 7 Conclusions
Annex A captures the decisions reached in Release 12 as a result of the study
with regard to network-based solutions, and provides source text that can be
used for CRs to TS 23.228 [2] for Release 12 to populate it with normative
text for the WebRTC access to IMS feature. This annex is comprised of elements
of all network-based solutions in the TR and supersedes them in Release 12.
It is also concluded that UE-based solutions do not have any standard impact.
###### ### Annex A: WebRTC access to IMS - network-based architecture
# A.1 Overview
## A.1.1 Assumptions
\- In this annex, the word \"UE\" can correspond to either a 3GPP or a
non-3GPP terminal.
\- The JS execution environment that executes the WIC has no standardized way
to access an ISIM/USIM on any terminal.
\- This Release specifies an option to use a signalling interface from the UE
to the network based on SIP over WebSocket, which is used as the information
model on which other options are expected to be based. Options other than SIP
over WebSocket are allowed in this Release, such as a REST based interface,
JSON over WebSocket, XMPP, but are not described in this document. Any
enhancements required to accommodate an unspecified signalling interface are
considered compliant to the Release as long as other defined interfaces in the
architecture are not impacted.
\- At the discretion of the CT groups, it is recommended that stage 3
documentation include information describing the elements of the message
sequences and information model for SIP over WebSocket that need to be present
for any alternative signalling interface.
\- SDP offer/answer exchange is the mechanism used for media plane feature
negotiation.
\- In this Release, the architecture does not support media multiplexing that
is defined for WebRTC clients.
NOTE 1: A JS downloaded in a WIC accessing IMS services is not expected to
allow usage of media multiplexing in the browser. If an SDP offer with media
multiplexing was nevertheless sent to the network the part of the SDP offer
associated with media multiplexing would be removed at the entry of the IMS
network.
\- In this Release, WebRTC specific media plane extensions will be handled at
the access edge and will not be propagated to other IMS functions.
\- This Release specifies DataChannel transport options for MSRP, BFCP and
T.140. Other options are allowed in this Release, but are not described in
this document.
\- In this Release, in case of a network based interworking between WebRTC and
IMS, for 3GPP and EPC access from a WebRTC client:
\- Use of available techniques to select preferred access technologies and
APNs, and to provide IP address continuity, are allowed but not described.
\- When the WebRTC client is served by an IP-CAN in a configuration that
supports PCC, it is possible to request QoS within the IP-CAN for WebRTC
media.
NOTE 2: To ensure full end to end QoS support, proper IP forwarding policies
should be set in the path between the PGW and the Functions supporting media
interworking to the IMS.
\- QoS can be provided in configurations where the IMS can identify the
transport (TCP-UDP/IP) addresses handled by the PCEF and where based on this
information PCC functions can identify the UE media flows to prioritize.
## A.1.2 Signalling architecture
Figure A.1.2-1 shows the WebRTC IMS signalling architecture. The WWSF (WebRTC
web server function) is located either within the operator network or within a
third party network and is the first web server contacted by the user
(generally by clicking on a link or entering a URL into the browser). The
P-CSCF enhanced for WebRTC (eP-CSCF) is the endpoint for the signalling
connection from the client and is located in the operator network.
NOTE 1: The presence of dashed elements in the figure depends on the
configuration.
PCC functional elements are present only for 3GPP access with QoS.
The corresponding PCC elements for fixed access are also optionally supported
but not shown.
The NAT in figure A.1.2-1 is meant for non-cellular access to IMS.
NOTE 2: A reference point between the WWSF and eP-CSCF might be considered in
future Releases.
NOTE 3: W3 corresponds to the output of the IETF RTCWEB discussions.
NOTE 4: The enhanced network entities, such as the eP-CSCF, might be
decomposed into multiple network elements (e.g., P-CSCF and WebRTC Signalling
Function) in future Releases to address additional use cases and
configurations.
Figure A.1.2-1: WebRTC IMS signalling architecture
## A.1.3 Functional entities
### A.1.3.1 WIC (WebRTC IMS Client)
A WebRTC IMS Client (WIC) is a WebRTC JS application capable of interoperating
with the WebRTC IMS access architecture defined herein. The WIC application is
downloaded from the WWSF within the operator network or a third party network
and provides access to the communications services of the IMS. The WIC
functions on any device supporting a browser (or equivalent JS execution
environment) with WebRTC extensions via any IP access network with access to
the internet, subject to the QoS and reachability limitations of the access
network. The WIC places no other requirements on the UE on which it is
executed.
### A.1.3.2 WWSF (WebRTC Web Server Function)
The WebRTC Web Server Function (WWSF) is the initial point of contact in the
Web that controls access to the IMS communications services for the user. The
WWSF has the following characteristics and functions:
\- The WWSF is located either in the operator network or a third party network
authorized by the operator network.
\- The WWSF provides the Web page presenting the user interface to the user
for IMS access.
\- The WWSF provides the JS WIC application for downloading to the browser on
the UE.
\- If the WIC does not enforce the use of IMS authentication for the user, the
WWSF manages the correct and consistent allocation of authorized IMS
identities to WICs associated with authenticated Web identities. The JS
application downloaded from the WWSF controls which authentication mode
applies.
NOTE: The WWSF represents a collection of functions that might be further
split across servers or networks, so long as they behave in the aggregate as
described.
### A.1.3.3 eP-CSCF (P-CSCF enhanced for WebRTC)
The P-CSCF enhanced for WebRTC (eP-CSCF) is a standard P-CSCF with the IMS-ALG
functionality and with the following additional conditionally mandatory
characteristics and functions when enhanced to support WebRTC:
\- The eP-CSCF supports at least one WebRTC UE-to-network signalling protocol,
e.g. SIP over WebSocket, JSON over WebSocket, XMPP over WebSocket, HTTP/REST
interface.
\- The eP-CSCF is located in the operator network.
\- The eP-CSCF verifies any UE authentication performed by the WWSF and
performs Trusted Node Authentication (TNA), as defined in TS 33.203, in IMS
for UEs already authenticated by the WWSF.
\- For Web authentication scenarios, the eP-CSCF verifies that the WWSF is
authorized to allocate IMS identities that it assigns to a WIC.
\- The eP-CSCF performs IMS registration for WICs using either IMS or Web
authentication schemes.
\- The eP-CSCF controls the media plane interworking functions provided by the
eIMS-AGW, including those additional media plane functions specific to WebRTC.
\- The eP-CSCF ensures via signalling that RTP streams are not multiplexed
onto the same port if entities anchoring the session media path in the IMS
domain do not support that capability.
\- The eP-CSCF ensures via signalling that RTP and RTCP flows of an RTP stream
are not multiplexed onto the same port if entities anchoring the session media
path in the IMS domain do not support that capability.
### A.1.3.4 eIMS-AGW (IMS Access GateWay enhanced for WebRTC)
The IMS AGW enhanced for WebRTC (eIMS-AGW) is a standard IMS-AGW with the
following additional conditionally mandatory characteristics and functions:
NOTE 1: WebRTC only supports audio including DTMF and video media using SRTP
transport, and data media using WebRTC DataChannels. Hence any media plane
protocol other than audio and video will use WebRTC DataChannels for
transport.
\- The eIMS-AGW supports the media plane interworking extensions as needed for
WICs.
\- The eIMS-AGW resides in the same network as the eP-CSCF.
\- The eIMS-AGW performs e2ae procedures for media protocols specific to
WebRTC, including ICE, media consent, and DTLS-SRTP.
\- The eIMS-AGW performs any transcoding needed for audio and video codecs
supported by the browser.
\- When GTT service is requested, the eIMS-AGW performs transport level
interworking between T.140 over DataChannels and other T.140 transport options
supported by IMS.
\- When MSRP is requested, the eIMS-AGW performs as an MSRP B2BUA between MSRP
over DataChannels and the other MSRP transport options supported by IMS.
NOTE 2: If CEMA extensions for transport-level interworking for MSRP are
supported in IMS, the eIMS-AGW will also support this option. In this case,
clause A.1.5.1 will also include a protocol architecture showing transport-
level interworking for MSRP based on CEMA.
\- When BFCP service is requested for conference floor control, the eIMS-AGW
performs transport level interworking between BFCP over DataChannels and other
BFCP transport options supported by IMS.
## A.1.4 Reference points
### A.1.4.1 W1 (UE to WWSF)
The W1 reference point is between the UE and the WWSF. The HTTPS protocol is
normally used to access the web page providing the UI for the WIC and to
download the WIC JS application to the browser.
### A.1.4.2 W2 (UE to eP-CSCF)
The W2 reference point is the signalling interface between the UE and the eP-
CSCF. SIP over secure WebSocket is a non-mandatory option for W2 in Release
12, where the SIP/SDP procedures are based on Gm with enhancements to support
extensions defined for WebRTC clients, and secure WebSocket is the supported
transport protocol. Other protocols are allowed on W2 for WebRTC access but
are not described in this document.
### A.1.4.3 Iq (eP-CSCF to eIMS-AGW)
The Iq reference point is between the eP-CSCF and eIMS-AGW and is enhanced to
control the additional bearer plane functions specific to WebRTC clients.
### A.1.4.4 W3 (UE to eIMS-AGW)
The W3 reference point is between the UE and eIMS-AGW. W3 carries the user
plane between the UE and the network (see clause A.1.5).
## A.1.5 Media plane protocol architecture
### A.1.5.0 General
The IMS AGW enhanced for WebRTC (eIMS-AGW) is the media plane interworking
element with the functions described in clause A.1.3.4. The eIMS-AGW provides
e2ae media procedures for ICE, periodic consent, DTLS-SRTP, transcoding, and
DataChannels as needed in support of MSRP, BFCP and T.140.
### A.1.5.1 Protocol architecture for MSRP
Figure A.1.5.1-1 shows the protocol architecture for support of MSRP from a
WebRTC IMS client (WIC).
The eIMS-AGW provides an MSRP B2BUA to allow interoperation with existing MSRP
peer endpoints.
Use of TLS between the eIMS-AGW and peer is optional, as indicated by an
asterisk (*) in the figure.
Figure A.1.5.1-1: Protocol architecture for MSRP
### A.1.5.2 Protocol architecture for BFCP
Figure A.1.5.2-1 shows the protocol architecture for support of BFCP from a
WebRTC IMS client (WIC).
The eIMS-AGW provides a transport relay function from DataChannel to TLS/TCP
to allow interoperation with existing BFCP peer endpoints.
Use of TLS between the eIMS-AGW and peer is optional, as indicated by an
asterisk (*) in the figure.
Figure A.1.5.2-1: Protocol architecture for BFCP
### A.1.5.3 Protocol architecture for T.140
Figure A.1.5.3-1 shows the protocol architecture for support of T.140 from a
WebRTC IMS client (WIC).
The eIMS-AGW provides a transport relay function from DataChannel to RTP/SRTP
to allow interoperation with existing T.140 peer endpoints. Use of SRTP
between the eIMS-AGW and peer is optional as an alternative to RTP.
Figure A.1.5.3-1: Protocol architecture for T.140
### A.1.5.4 Protocol architecture for Voice and Video
Figure A.1.5.4-1 shows the protocol architecture for support of Voice and
Video from a WebRTC IMS client (WIC). Transcoding (whether codec1 is different
from codec2) is optional. SRTP between the UE and the eIMS-AGW relies on
keying material negotiated via DTLS.
Figure A.1.5.4-1: Protocol architecture for Voice and Video
# A.2 Procedures
## A.2.1 Registration
### A.2.1.1 Introduction
NOTE 1: SA WG3 must validate the registration scenarios and provide additional
details related to security aspects of the architecture. In particular, SA WG3
should verify for all scenarios the security properties of at least the
following aspects: the use of TLS, WSS and CORS at the relevant reference
points; the use of IMS digest, TNA, and/or potentially other IMS
authentication mechanisms; how to provide IMS digest authentication and
registration information to the WIC; the potential use of a security token if
the origin of the WWSF cannot be verified; the required trust relationships
between functional entities for the scenarios; the mechanisms used to verify
the required trust relationships between functional entities; and whether
there are any constraints on network locations of the functional entities of
the architecture in the scenarios.
The WebRTC IMS architecture supports two different IMS registration scenarios
that differ in the authentication method, and ownership of the WWSF (i.e.
operator network or third party). For these scenarios, the eP-CSCF verifies
that the UE is executing a WIC from an authorized WWSF.
NOTE 2: The example procedures in the following clauses are intended to
demonstrate a way of realizing the scenarios. These procedures are not
intended to constrain the security solutions provided by SA WG3 within the
context of the agreed architecture and use cases.
**Scenario 1:** The user has a subscription with an individual IMPU and uses
an IMS authentication mechanism (e.g. IMS digest) to authenticate with IMS.
Clause A.2.1.2 provides detailed procedures for scenario 1.
**Scenario 2:** The user has a subscription with an individual IMPU but uses a
web identity and authentication scheme to authenticate with the WWSF. The WWSF
assigns IMS identities to the user based on the user\'s web identity (e.g. via
database lookup or other translation means). Clause A.2.1.3 provides detailed
procedures for scenario 2.
NOTE 3: A third scenario described here is also under consideration for
inclusion in the Release but details will be investigated during the normative
work. In this scenario, the user uses a web identity and authentication scheme
to authenticate with the WWSF. The WWSF is located in a third party network
and has a subscription with IMS for a wildcard IMPU. The WWSF assigns an IMS
identity to each individual user from its assigned wildcard IMPU. The WIC uses
the assigned IMS identity to access IMS services.
NOTE 4: This Release does not include support for either of the following
optional enhancements to the third scenario: dynamic WWSF configuration; and
provision for the third party to offer its communication services in addition
to IMS services.
### A.2.1.2 WIC registration of individual IMPU with IMS using IMS digest
The WIC obtains information needed for IMS registration (e.g. IMPI and IMPU)
via unspecified means. For example, some of this information might be stored
in cookies or local browser storage after visiting a secure web site provided
by the IMS operator.
Figure A.2.1.2-1 shows a registration call flow where IMS digest is used to
register the WIC.
Figure A.2.1.2-1: WIC registration of individual IMPU with IMS using IMS
digest
1\. From within a WebRTC-enabled browser, the user accesses a URI to the WWSF
to initiate an HTTPS connection to the WWSF. The TLS connection provides one-
way authentication of the server based on the server certificate. The browser
downloads and initializes the WIC from the WWSF.
2\. The WIC opens a WSS connection to the eP-CSCF using standard cross-origin
resource sharing (CORS, http://www.w3.org/TR/cors/) procedures to ensure that
the WIC originated from a WWSF authorized to access this eP-CSCF.
3-6. The WIC initiates a registration transaction with IMS via the eP-CSCF by
sending a REGISTER request to the eP-CSCF via the WSS connection. The REGISTER
request includes IMS Digest authentication parameters, IMPI, IMPU and other
information as needed for proper IMS registration. This request is translated
in the IMS Core into an IMS registration process. This process leverages user
credentials in HSS.
### A.2.1.3 WIC registration of individual IMPU with IMS based on web
authentication
Figure A.2.1.3-1 shows a registration call flow where the WIC registers with
IMS based on web authentication with the WWSF.
Figure A.2.1.3-1: WIC registration of individual IMPU based on web
authentication
1\. From within a WebRTC-enabled browser, the user accesses a URI to the WWSF
to initiate an HTTPS connection to the WWSF. The TLS connection provides one-
way authentication of the server based on the server certificate. The browser
downloads and initializes the WIC from the WWSF. The WWSF authenticates the
user using a common web authentication procedure, determines the IMPI and IMPU
assigned to the user (e.g., via an LDAP query to an identity database {not
shown} using the authenticated identity as key), issues a security token for
the user (e.g., where the security token is a JSON Web Token) and returns the
IMS identities as claims within the security token to the WIC.
2\. The WIC opens a WSS connection to the eP-CSCF using CORS procedures to
ensure that the WIC originated from a WWSF authorized to access this eP-CSCF.
3\. The WIC sends a REGISTER request to the eP-CSCF via the WSS connection.
The request includes the user identity extracted from the claims in the
security token, as well as the security token received from the WWSF as an
attachment to the request.
4\. The eP-CSCF validates the contents of the security token and confirms that
the IMS identities being registered are authorized by the security token. The
eP-CSCF then forwards the authorized REGISTER request to IMS to initiate
authentication-less IMS registration using TNA procedures, with an indication
that the authentication has already been carried out.
5\. IMS returns a OK response to the WIC to confirm the successful IMS
registration.
## A.2.2 Origination and termination
Origination and termination flows for WebRTC IMS clients follow standard IMS
procedures with the exception that routing of all messages between the WIC and
S-CSCF traverse the eP-CSCF (rather than P-CSCF) and that parameters of Iq
procedures take into account the WebRTC-specific extensions used by the WIC to
send media. No further details are necessary.
#