# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document captures the results of the study and evaluation of
possible solutions for architectural enhancements to support Group
Communication System Enablers for LTE (GCSE_LTE). The Stage 1 requirements for
GCSE_LTE are defined in TS 22.468 [3].
Specifically, GCSE_LTE covers the following aspects:
\- Group Communication (GC) among entitled group members via E-UTRAN;
\- Group Communication (GC) among entitled group members using E-UTRAN and
members of the same group using ProSe communication paths via a ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay;
\- The relationship between ProSe and GCSE for GCs.
The functional descriptions of \"ProSe communication paths via ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay\" and \"ProSe GCs\" have been defined in TR 23.703 [4].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers for LTE
(GCSE_LTE)\".
[4] 3GPP TR 23.703: \"Study on architecture enhancements to support Proximity
Services (ProSe)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[6] Open Mobile Alliance: \"OMA PoC System Description\" v2.1.
[7] IETF RFC 4582 (November 2006): \"The Binary Floor Control Protocol
(BFCP)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.246: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Architecture and functional description\".
[9] 3GPP TS 24.147: \"Conferencing using the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network
(CN) subsystem; Stage 3\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[11] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Protocols and codecs\".
[12] 3GPP TS 33.246: \"3G Security; Security of Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast
Service (MBMS)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[14] 3GPP TS 36.304: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**GCSE Group:** A set of members that are entitled to participate in a GC
service.
**Group Communication service ID:** A Group communication service identifier
identifies the communication service among the group members.
**Multipoint Service:** A service, which is offered to the GCSE AS and used to
distribute the same Group Communication data to the UEs of a GCSE Group in a
resource efficient way.
**Multicast Delivery:** A delivery mode where the Group Communication data is
delivered via shared network resources to multiple group members.
NOTE: RAN might study a \"Multicast Delivery\" consisting of PtP or PtM radio
bearers.
**Unicast Delivery:** A delivery mode where the Group Communication data is
delivered to a particular group member via resources dedicated to a group
member.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
BM-SC Broadcast Multicast - Service Centre
DL Down Link
EMBMS Evolved Packet System MBMS
GC Group Communication
GCSE_LTE Group Communication Service Enabler over LTE
GCSE AS Group Communication Service Enabler Application Server
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service
MBSFN MBMS over a Single Frequency Network
MOCN Multi-Operator Core Network
MuSe Multipoint Service
MTCH Multicast Traffic Channel
ProSe Proximity Services
PCRF Policy and Charging Rules Function
PtP Point to Point
PtM Point to Multipoint
TMGI Temporary Mobile Group Identity
# 4 Assumptions and architectural requirements
## 4.1 General
Editor\'s note: Placeholder for any general aspect of this study.
## 4.2 High-level reference diagram
Figure 4.2-1 shows the high level view of the GCSE architecture.
NOTE 1: It is for FFS on whether the unicast service is provided via GC5 or
SGi.
NOTE 2: It is FFS on how this architecture will be further decomposed (based
on solution proposal).
NOTE 3: Multiple PLMNs (i.e., members for the same group are served by
different PLMNs concurrently) and roaming architecture is FFS.
Figure 4.2-1: Overall of high level architecture view for GCSE_LTE
This high-level architecture diagram consists of Application layer and 3GPP
EPS layer. The Application layer consists of GCSE AS. The 3GPP EPS layer
consists of a MuSe function. The MuSe function interworks with the 3GPP EPS
entities (defined by TS 23.401 [5]) to provide the Multipoint Service (MuSe)
functionality.
## 4.3 Reference points
**GC1** : It is the reference point between the GCSE application in the UE and
in the application server. It is used to define application level signalling
requirement to enable Multipoint functionality for GCSE_LTE, and possibly for
session establishment and floor control usages, etc.
**GC2** : It is the reference point between the GCSE AS and the MuSe function.
It is used to define the interaction between GCSE AS and MuSe functionality
provided by the 3GPP EPS layer.
**GC3** : It is the reference point between the E-UTRAN and MuSe function. It
is used to define the interaction between E-UTRAN and MuSe function in order
to achieve Multipoint functionality provided by the 3GPP EPS layer.
**GC4** : It is the reference point between the MME and MuSe function It is
used to define the interaction between MME and MuSe function in order to
achieve Multipoint functionality provided by the 3GPP EPS layer.
**GC5** : It is the reference point between the P-GW and MuSe function. It is
used to provide DL unicast service by MuSe .
Editor\'s note: The use of the above new reference points for normative work
will need to be justified.
## 4.4 Assumptions
Editor\'s note: This clause will define the underlying assumptions of this
study.
## 4.5 Architectural requirements
Editor\'s note: This clause will define the architectural requirements for
this study.
The architecture shall allow as an option for the GCSE AS to determine whether
to deliver the group call data using Unicast delivery or Multicast delivery or
both.
# 5 Key Issues
Editor\'s note: For each key issue identified, the clause will capture the
\"General description and assumptions\" (sub-clause 1). Different architecture
solutions to address the key issues will be documented in clause 6.
## 5.1 Key Issue #1: Decision point for using PtP and/or PtM
### 5.1.1 General description
Should the decision to use PtP and/or PtM distribution be done at the
application layer or within the 3GPP EPS layer? Proposed solutions should
explain why the proposed method should be used and how this may be achieved.
### 5.1.2 Group Privacy considerations for PtP/PtM decision
The use of PtM by a cell is communicated in broadcast information and
typically most cells might not use PtM.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS whether Groups are treated independently or whether
several Groups share a single PtM identifier at the RAN or EPS level.
Hence the activation (or modification) of PtM resources in a cell may serve as
a warning to criminals of the nearby presence of public safety personnel.
Some entity in the network needs to take account of the Group\'s privacy
settings before deciding to use PtM, e.g.
\- Whether to NEVER establish PtM for that group;
\- Whether to perform a \"fast\" PtM activation over a single DRX period
thereby risking some mobiles not discovering the broadcast but minimising the
time that PtM can be detected;
\- Whether there are no restrictions on PtM for that group.
Privacy considerations such as these should be taken into account when making
the decision on \'application layer\' vs. \'3GPP EPS\' control of PtM/PtP
bearer usage.
## 5.2 Key Issue #2: GCSE_LTE interaction with ProSe UE-to-Network Relays
### 5.2.1 General description
A public safety ProSe-enabled UE not served by E-UTRAN can take part in a GC
of one or more GCSE Groups for which it is authorised via a ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay.
The details of the Prose UE-to-Network Relay procedures and interaction with
the network at the \"transport layer\" will be studied in Proximity Services
Study Report TR 23.703 [4].
Aspects specific to the interaction between GCSE_LTE and the ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay need to be considered in potential solutions.
## 5.3 Key Issue #3: Group Communication with geographical scope
### 5.3.1 General description
Based on the requirements defined in TS 22.468 [3] on \"Geographical scope of
GCSE Groups\", the group members may be restricted to receive and/or transmit
only within those cells corresponding to the area defined by the geographical
scope of the GCSE group. This geographical scope of the GCSE group is
typically agreed between customer and GCSE application service provider as
part of the subscription for the GCSE Group.
When requested, a notification shall be sent to a requesting entity when the
group member ceases to participate in the communications from the GCSE Group,
i.e. in case of a group with restricted geographic scope when the group member
leaves the Group\'s Service Area.
NOTE 1: This notification requirement is not just related to geographical
scope.
Proposed solutions should explain how GCSE is accomplished for groups with a
geographic scope as per TS 22.468 [3] and how any required notifications are
provided when a group member ceases to participate in the communications from
its GCSE group due to leaving the Group\'s Service Area.
Per instance of group communication the geographic area in which the group
communication is delivered can be further restricted within the geographic
scope of the GCSE group.
Some scenarios may require overriding the geographic scope of the GCSE group.
An operator may want to charge for this.
NOTE 2: The geographic area concept is independent of whether the Group
Communication data is delivered over unicast or multicast.
Editor\'s note: It\'s FFS where this functionality is most optimally
implemented (e.g. in MuSe or at application level).
## 5.4 Key Issue #4: MuSe with additional media handling
### 5.4.1 General description
In GCSE, a Group Communication may consist of different media (e.g.
voice+video or voice only, IP packet for data communications, etc). A
Transmitter Group Member may choose to send IP packet for data communication
or particular media type (e.g. voice) initially and later adds data/media
component(s) (e.g. video) to this group session based on the situation and
then removes the additional data/media when it is no longer needed.
Receiver group members may choose to receive only the data/media type that are
in its interest to receive (e.g. only voice media and not video).
Proposed solutions should explain how the addition and removal of additional
data/media component(s) (e.g. video) is performed within the current Group
Communication session and how the Receiver group members can decide which type
of data/media to receive if only certain media/data is wanted.
## 5.5 Key Issue #5: Service continuity
### 5.5.1 General description
It is assumed that continuity of service will be provided when a UE moves
between cells in the same PLMN providing a GC via Multipoint Service (MuSe)
exists in both cells.
The SA WG2 study phase needs to consider at least:
\- will the 3GPP EPS provide service continuity for a GCSE Group Communication
between delivery over a unicast EPS bearer and delivery over a Multipoint
Service (MuSe) ?
\- If so, what EPS procedures will be required ?
\- If not, what interface support, in order to minimize service disruption,
will the EPS provide to Third Party applications to manage the switch to/from
unicast EPS bearers and a Multipoint Service (MuSe) ?
\- what EPS procedures will be required to provide service continuity when UE
numbers in a cell / MuSe service area rise and fall across the threshold
indicating that multicast/broadcast delivery should or should not be provided
?
\- what are the interfaces between the RAN and EPC- In collaboration with RAN
WGs ? Determine the split of responsibilities between RAN and CN for service
continuity.
## 5.6 Key Issue #6: Roaming support
### 5.6.1 General description
The SA WG2 study phase needs to consider at least:
\- what EPS procedures will be required so that GCSE_LTE Group Communication
support may be provided by the HPLMN when the UE is roaming (attached to a
VPLMN) ?
## 5.7 Key Issue #7: Interworking
### 5.7.1 General description
The SA WG2 study phase needs to consider at least:
\- what EPS procedures, entities and interfaces will be required to provide
GCSE-based GC interworking between UEs which are connected to a common RAN but
are attached to different PLMNs (support for MOCN with all UEs attached to
their HPLMN). More than one PLMN may provide access to a GCSE Application
Server. The GCSE Application Server(s) may be within the operator domain or
outside the operator domain;
\- the architecture, including interfaces and location of any interworking
function (i.e. inside or outside the EPS), that would enable interworking
between:
\- UEs which are connected to different EPS networks where each network
provides GCSE-based GC services;
\- UEs connected to a 3GPP network offering GCSE-based GC and terminals
connected to a non-3GPP network which also offers group communication services
for Public Safety (e.g. legacy systems such as TETRA and P25).
In each of the above cases it is assumed that suitable interworking agreements
are in place between the different operators.
## 5.8 Key Issue #8: Priority and Pre-emption on Group Communication
### 5.8.1 General description
One Group Communication may include different transport paths, i.e. unicast/
multicast delivery. For one Group Communication the priority and pre-emption
capability for a particular media within a PLMN should be same no matter which
transport path is selected.
One Group Communication can include different media, e.g. voice and picture.
For one GCSE group different user may have different priority. During the
exceptional situation of resource limitations, the system may decide to
release resources allocated for Group Communications based on the priority
level and pre-emption capability of the different communication groups.
The SA WG2 study phase needs to consider at least:
\- In the 3GPP network, how to assign the priority level and pre-emption
capability to the traffic of the Group Communication ?
# 6 Solutions
Editor\'s note: This clause is intended to document architecture solutions.
Each solution should clearly describe which of the key issues it covers and
how.
## 6.1 Solution 1 - Group Communications using pre-established eMBMS bearers
### 6.1.1 Functional description
#### 6.1.1.1 Solution description
These are the salient features of the solution:
1\. Solution leverages eMBMS on downlink for GCs.
2\. The solution uses pre-established eMBMS bearers for fast GC setup.
It implies the followings:
\- TMGI(s) associated with the group call is pre-assigned by the BM-SC and the
MBMS bearers for this group call (one MBMS bearer per QoS class) are pre-
established in advance.
\- The network establishes MBMS session in preconfigured MBSFN areas.
NOTE: Different groups can have different preconfigured MBSFN areas.
Editor\'s note: The size of MBSFN area is FFS.
\- The UE may need to receive data for multiple TMGIs in the same scheduling
period (which for low latency services such as speech is anticipated to be set
to 80 ms). The network needs to take the UEs\' Radio Access Capabilities into
account if these TMGIs are used on different carrier frequencies.
NOTE: While clause 5.8.1.1 of Release 11 TS 36.331 [10] specifies this
behaviour to be \'implementation specific\', TSG RAN indicated in their LS in
S2‑140050 (= RP‑132109) that:
> _\"If multiple MBMS services or multiple MBSFN areas, in which the current
> serving cell is participating, are transmitted on the same carrier, then it
> should be straightforward to receive them simultaneously. There is no big
> impact on the UE processing requirements. It is worth noting that the
> capability of UE would be constrained by the UE category given in TS
> 36.306.\"_.
>
> Hence it seems reasonable for SA WG2 to assume that a more stringent, multi-
> TMGI, requirement can be placed on UEs for Public Safety users in 3GPP
> Release 12.
\- The network sends the corresponding TMGI(s) and session information over
MCCH.
\- If not all MBMS subframes allocated in MCCH are needed for transmission of
existing MBMS services, the left over MBMS subframes can be used for unicast.
However (from LS response to question 1a in TD R1‑134985), it is not possible
to multiplex MBMS and unicast transmissions in the same subframe.
\- (As a consequence of answer 3c in LS response in TD R2-133728) Because the
minimum MCCH modification period is 5.12 seconds, and initial talk spurts need
much lower latency, once the MBMS session start for that talk group has been
received, the eNB continually sends the TMGI(s) on the MCCH. To avoid
excessive end to end speech delay, MCH Scheduling Information (MSI) is sent
every 80 ms to indicate whether or not data for an individual TMGI is sent on
the MBMS subframes.
3\. Unicast bearers are used for uplink communication. In certain cases (e.g.
eMBMS is not supported) unicast is also used for DL.
4\. The solution uses PCRF as interface between GCSE As and BM-SC for exchange
of eMBMS related control information.
Editor\'s note: The use of PCRF for exchanging eMBMS control information is
FFS.
#### 6.1.1.2 Architecture reference model
Figure 6.1.1.2-1: Architecture for 3GPP GCSE service
### 6.1.2 Procedures
#### 6.1.2.1 Group Communication Setup using pre-established eMBMS bearers
The interaction between the UE and GCSE AS is shown as an example.
Figure 6.1.2.1-1
1-4. GC Server requests the TMGI(s) for the GCSE group(s) from the BM-SC
through the PCRF.
5\. GC Server maintains a mapping of the TMGI to the GCSE Group ID.
6-10. Pre-established bearers are set up for the group(s). The corresponding
MBSFN area is based on the eNBs that were pre-selected for this GCSE GC as
provided to the BM-SC. Triggered by step 8, the E-UTRAN sends MBMS related
system information and MCCH configuration information over the air.
The UE periodically monitors MCH scheduling information (MSI) to detect if the
TMGI associated with MTCH has been scheduled.
11\. The GCSE Application on UE registers with GCSE Application Server.
The register message may include all the group identifiers the UE is in
interested.
12\. The TMGI(s) of the GCSE group(s), if available, are returned to the UE.
The UE maintains a mapping of the TMGI to the GCSE group identifier.
13\. The UE monitors the network to determine the availability of the eMBMS
transmission corresponding to the TMGI(s) of the interested GCSE group(s). The
UE initiates a Group Communication set up for a particular GCSE group using
Unicast UL bearers. The UE also indicates the availability of the eMBMS
transmission corresponding to the TMGI of the GCSE group in the group setup
signalling.
14\. The GCSE AS decides whether to use the pre-established eMBMS bearers for
downlink.
When the E-UTRAN detects the data is coming from the network, the E-UTRAN
modifies the MSI to indicate the schedule to the UE. The UE receives the MSI
and tunes to the MTCH.
#### 6.1.2.2 Service continuity during unicast and MBMS switching
##### 6.1.2.2.1 General
The clause provides flows for switching from MBMS to unicast and vice-versa.
##### 6.1.2.2.2 Switching from MBMS to unicast - make-before-break
Figure 6.1.2.2.2-1 shows the procedures for service continuity when the UE is
about to move from a cell (eNB1) transmitting (e)MBMS bearer service to a cell
(eNB2) which does not transmit the same (e)MBMS service, i.e. when the UE is
about to move out of MBSFN area.
Figure 6.1.2.2.2-1: Service continuity when moving out from eMBMS coverage
(Make-Before-Break)
The following steps are performed:
\- In Step 1 the group call is on going. The UE receives the GC service
data/media from the content provider (GCSE-AS) via an eMBMS bearer service.
\- In Step 2, for make-before-break switching procedures, the UE detects that
it is about to move out from the eMBMS coverage through the following
implementation-specific methods (but not limited to):
\- The UE detects that MBSFN signal strength becomes weak;
\- The UE detects that packet data loss rate is increased.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS whether UE can reliably detect that it is moving out
of MBSFN coverage by measuring MBSFN signal strength or packet error rate.
\- In Step 3, If the UE is in idle state, the UE enters connected state by
performs RRC connection procedures with eNB1.
\- In Step 4, the UE indicates the GCSE-AS that it is moved out from the eMBMS
coverage through application signalling.
\- In Step 5, the GSCE-AS sends ack to the UE through application signalling.
\- In Step 6, the UE receives the GC service data/media from the content
provider (GCSE-AS) via the unicast bearer through eNB1.
\- In Step 8, the UE is handoff from eNB1 to eNB2.
\- In Step 9, the UE receives the GC service data/media from the content
provider (GCSE-AS) via the unicast bearer through eNB2.
\- In Step 10, the UE stops receiving current MTCH and continues receiving
SIBs.
##### 6.1.2.2.3 Switching from MBMS to unicast - Non make-before-break
Figure 6.1.2.2.3-1 shows the procedures for service continuity when the UE
moves from a cell (eNB1) transmitting (e)MBMS bearer service to a cell (eNB2)
which does not transmit the same (e)MBMS service, i.e. when the UE moves out
of MBSFN area.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS if the non make-before-break can satify the service
continuity requirements.
Figure 6.1.2.2.3-1: Service continuity when moving out from eMBMS coverage
(non make-before-break)
The following steps are performed:
\- In Step 1 the group call is on going. The UE receives the GC service
data/media from the content provider (GCSE-AS) via an eMBMS bearer service.
\- In Step 2, the UE detects that it is already moved from eNB1 to eNB2 which
doesn\'t support GC service data/media over the MBMS session by monitoring SIB
(SIB2/SIB13/SIB15 etc.) messages or MCCH.
\- In Step 3, the UE enters Connected State if the UE is in Idle State.
\- In Step 4, the UE indicates the GCSE-AS that it is moved out from the eMBMS
coverage through application signalling.
\- In Step 5, the GSCE-AS sends Ack to the UE through application signalling.
\- In Step 6, the UE receives the GC service data/media from the content
provider (GCSE-AS) via an EPC unicast bearer through eNB2.
\- In Step 7, the UE continues receiving the SIB messages.
##### 6.1.2.2.4 Switching from unicast to MBMS
Figure 6.1.2.2.4-1 shows the procedures for service continuity when the UE
moves into MBMS coverage.
Figure 6.1.2.2.4-1: Service continuity when moving into eMBMS coverage
The following steps are performed:
\- In Step 1 the group call is on going. The UE is in connected state and
receives the GC service data/media via an unicast bearer through eNB2 which
doesn\'t support MBMS.
\- In Step 2, the UE is handoff from eNB2 to eNB1 which supports MBMS and the
UE continues to receive the GC service data/media via the unicast bearer
through eNB1.
\- In Step 3, the UE detects that it is moving into the eMBMS coverage by
monitoring SIB (SIB2/SIB13/SIB15 etc.) messages or MCCH.
\- In Step 4, the UE performs service discovery procedures if needed. The UE
receives USD from eMBMS channel or from unicast channel.
\- In Step 5, the UE performs MBMS service registration procedures and receive
MBMS service key if needed.
\- In Step 6, the UE receives the GC service data/media from the content
provider (GCSE-AS) via an eMBMS bearer service.
\- In Step 7, the UE indicates the GCSE-AS that it is moved into the eMBMS
coverage through application signalling.
\- In Step 8, the GSCE-AS sends an Ack to the UE through application
signalling.
\- In Steps 9, the GCSE- AS stops sending the GC service data/media via an EPC
unicast bearer.
The unicast bearer can be released.
\- In Step 10, the UE continues to receive the GC service data/media from the
content provider (GCSE-AS) via an eMBMS bearer service.
### 6.1.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
Editor\'s note: Impacts on existing nodes or functionality will be added.
### 6.1.4 Solution evaluation
Editor\'s note: The fulfilment of requirements in clause 4.2 needs will be
evaluated.
a) Without knowledge about whether mobiles from the talk/media group are
within the cell, data for that talk/media group has to be broadcast in every
cell in the pre-established MBMS area. From the description of the number of
mobiles per groups per TETRA cell in TD S2‑131607, and the fact that
commercial cellular networks deploy more cells per unit area than the UK TETRA
network, it can be seen there will be frequently zero users from a group in a
cell. (Table 1 shows that Site 4, cell A has 27 groups, but site 4 cell C has
only 2 groups, i.e. with solution 1, site 4 cell C would broadcast data for at
least 25 groups unnecessarily!)
b) For low latency services such as speech, the UE needs to receive the
Multicast Scheduling Information at least once every 80 ms.
## 6.2 Solution 2 - GCSE AS counting of UEs per group per cell
### 6.2.1 Functional description
This solution builds on the eMBMS service description provided in Solution 1.
The intention is to use unicast bearers to distribute the downlink media
unless there are a significant number of users in the same group in the same
cell (in which case eMBMS usage in that cell is triggered).
While this solution normally keeps the public safety UEs \"Permanently RRC
Connected\", there are variants that allow the device to move to RRC-Idle.
However, it is anticipated that modern work management/asset tracking/employee
safety systems will ensure frequent location and status updates from all
\'group call\' devices. The frequency of these updates is likely to be of the
order of every 30 seconds and hence the RAN is anyhow likely to want to keep
them in connected state. In addition, the need to rapidly playout a speech
command to users means that if they were allowed to go to RRC idle, then they
would need to use the shortest DRX setting, i.e. 320 ms.
### 6.2.2 Procedures
a) At the start of the Public Safety User\'s shift, the user \"clocks on\" and
IMS-style signalling is used to register the user/device, AND to inform the
device of TMGI(s) and decryption keys that may be used if eMBMS is
encountered.
NOTE 1: The term \"IMS-style signalling\" indicates, for example, the use of
SIP messages, and/or, IMS authentication and/or the use of QCI 5 as a bearer
for SIP signalling, etc.
b) The MME instructs the EUTRAN to keep this UE in RRC connected state. Either
the subscription record from the HLR, a dedicated APN for GC, or an indication
from the GCSE AS (e.g. via Rx/Gx/S5-S8/S11 messages), can give instruction to
the MME so as to inform the RAN to keep the UE in RRC connected state.
c1) RFSP/SPID functionality is used to group Emergency Service Users on the
same frequency/RAT (typically the LTE frequency that forms the network\'s
\"coverage layer\").
c2) the cells on the network\'s LTE coverage layer have eMBMS subframes
configured but the MCCH does not normally signal any TMGIs.
NOTE 2: This configuration is believed to consume very little radio resource
provided that there is a significant proportion of Rel‑10 or newer mobiles in
the cell. When their TMGI is not signalled, the battery impact on the UE is
low (reception of the MCCH is required only every 5.12 seconds).
d) The PDN GW activates ULI report procedure with Cell based granularity. This
activation may be based on the APN, or, could be controlled across
interface(s) between the PDN GW and the GCSE AS via Rx/Gx.
The latter option may permit relaxed location reporting (e.g. TA based) to be
used for devices that are in a TA-list/PLMN that is excluded from the Group
Call area.
NOTE 3: An alternative to the network based ULI report, is that the UE detects
the cell change and sends a user data packet to the GCSE AS to inform it that
the UE is in a new cell. Reporting of cell change from the RRC layer to
\"upper layers\" is a feature that is supported by USIM Application Tool kit
and most modern device operating systems/engineering functions. However, the
RAN signalling load caused by the transition from Connected-DRX mode to data
transfer mode at every cell change is probably slightly greater than the load
caused by the ULI reports sent at intra-eNB movement, and by using ULI
reporting there is less data transmission from the device and hence a somewhat
improved battery life. If using this alternative, the need for the network to
keep the mobile in RRC Connected state can be relaxed provided that the UE
uses an idle mode DRX (e.g. 320 ms) that meets the service\'s latency
requirements.
e) With each User Location Information report, the \'GCSE AS\' increments and
decrements counters on how many users are in each group in each cell.
f) dependent upon the number of users in a group in a cell (and the cell\'s
RAT), the \'GCSE AS\' decides whether to distribute future media/data in that
cell via:
\- the existing established point to point bearer, and/or,
\- an eMBMS broadcast bearer (at this point step 6 clause 6.1.2.1 of in
solution 1 occurs and the cell starts to broadcast the TMGI of that group on
the MCCH even if no media is present). Single cell MBSFN areas are used
because the number of users per group per cell can vary greatly even within
the cells of a single eNodeB.
It is anticipated to be normal that the Group spans many cells and when media
is sent out to that Group some cells use point to point bearers; some cells
use an eMBMS bearer; and, at least in transient mobility cases, some cells
will have both point to point bearers and an eMBMS bearer.
g) even when eMBMS is in use, the UEs can use unicast uplink transmissions to
the GCSE AS to ack/nack the downlink transmissions. If the eMBMS link quality
is insufficient for a specific UE, then the GCSE AS may use the point to point
downlink bearer to send the media to that UE.
As an additional complementary component to the above procedure, if the
service used within that group has a fast response time requirement (e.g. 300
ms), then (at step b), the subscription record from the HLR informs the MME
[and SGSN] to instruct the RAN to keep this UE in RRC connected state with \"a
short connected mode DRX\".
### 6.2.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
Interfaces. There is a need to:
\- define an appropriate RFSP/SPID value; and
\- for the HSS to be able to control the RAN\'s use of \"short connected mode
DRX\" for fast response time services;
\- GC2 interface to be able to describe the MBMS area in terms of cell
identities.
Network entities are likely to be somewhat more loaded by the cell change
reports, however, the proportion of Public Safety users in a commercial
network should be relatively low (e.g. \> 1 TMGI in an 80 ms period is low.
NOTE In S2-140050 (=RP-132109), TSG-RAN stated that \"_If multiple MBMS
services or multiple MBSFN areas, in which the current serving cell is
participating, are transmitted on the same carrier, then it should be
straightforward to receive them simultaneously. There is no big impact on the
UE processing requirements. It is worth noting that the capability of UE would
be constrained by the UE category given in TS 36.306_ \".
f) For the simultaneous reception of voice and video by the same \"work
group\", the ability to receive 2 TMGIs simultaneously enables the existing
eMBMS QoS model (see clause 6.3.2 of TS 23.246 [8]) to be retained.
g) the use of single cell MBSFN areas avoids the need for tight inter-site
time synchronisation. This may be particularly useful for major incidents
where temporary cell sites are deployed as these temporary cells may be
difficult to connect to the MCE which serves the permanent cells in that area
(clause 15.1.1 of TS 36.300 [2] indicates that all cells in the MBSFN area
need to use a common MCE).
h) Keeping UEs in RRC connected state adds some load to the eNB. Having
different inactivity timers/connected mode DRX settings in the eNB for Public
Safety and non-Public Safety users requires eNB implementation effort.
## 6.3 Solution 3 - Group Communications with MuSe (eNB centric)
### 6.3.0 Overview
For Multicast Delivery, this solution reuses the eMBMS architecture as defined
in TS 23.246 [8] for media distribution in the core network level toward the
associated eNB(s). At the eNB level, this solution expects that the eNB to
make a decision to determine whether the radio delivery mechanism toward a
particular UE should be using PtP or PtM transmission and the type of radio
transmission being used by eNB is transparent toward the core network.
For Unicast Delivery, this solution does not alter the current EPS procedure
as defined in TS 23.401 [5] for handing GBR/non-GBR.
In high level, the following steps describe how this Multicast Delivery works
in the system level.
1\. For a particular GC session, eNB receives the media/TMGI from MBMS-GW. eNB
broadcasts the TMGI over the air. Media is not transmitted over the radio.
2\. UE detects this TMGI from the serving eNB and indicates to eNB (become RRC
Connected if not already) that it wants to join to the Mulitcast Delivery
session pointed by this TMGI.
3\. eNB then maintains a group-call context (e.g. remember UE-TMGI
relationship).
4\. eNB starts sending the media over the radio and indicate to UE the
corresponding radio related parameter so the UE can start listening in to the
DL media using Multicast Delivery.
5\. For mobility handling, source eNB indicates to target eNB the TMGI(s)
associated with the UE so target eNB can prepare the radio resource during the
HO process.
Editor\'s note: This procedure requires new eMBMS RAN radio transmission
scheme and procedures and is therefore subject to future study by RAN WGs.
### 6.3.1 Functional description
Figure 6.3.1-1 shows a high level interaction between the UE, Application
layer, and MuSe function, and the RAN nodes for invoking multipoint service
for GC.
Figure 6.3.1-1: high-level interaction for GCSE functions
At high level, the interaction can break into 4 areas:
A1 to A3: UE expresses its interest for joining to certain GC(s) to become
Receiver group member. GCSE AS needs to validate the user request and response
to the request accordingly. This is communicated over GC1.
B1 to B4: GCSE AS made a decision to use Multicast Delivery offered by the EPS
for GC so it sends a request to MuSe. MuSe coordinates the setup within the
EPS and response to GCSE AS accordingly. This is communicated over GC2.
C1 to C2: UE needs to be updated with certain Multicast related parameter (e.g
MBMS service announcement information) in order to use the multipoint service
offered by the EPS. This is communicated over GC1.
D1 to D2: UE expresses its interest for MuSe Delivery (i.e. provide TMGI) to
eNodeB. The eNodeB caches UE context (e.g. mapping between UE and TMGI), and
adjusts the radio parameters to keep the UE in long connected state. The
eNodeB determines whether to use PtP/PtM to send DL group traffic media, based
on the knowledge of cached UE context and RAN node situation.
### 6.3.2 Procedures
#### 6.3.2.1 Multicast Delivery Setup
Prior to Multicast Delivery setup, UE is participating to a GC using a Unicast
Delivery. At some point, GCSE AS decided to involve Multicast Delivery for
media distribution so it invokes the MuSe function via GC2.
Figure 6.3.2.1-1: MuSe Setup
1\. UE has expressed its interest to participate into a GC and GCSE AS has
granted the access. The media is received via a dedicated EPS bearer toward
the group server (i.e. Unicast Delivery).
2\. GCSE AS determines that Multicast Delivery is needed and sends a request
to BMSC. It includes the QoS information for the DL media, and GC ID that
points to this GC. QoS indicates information similar to ARP and QCI in order
to define the characteristic of the media. It may also include a Geographical
Scope to define the area where the DL media distribution is confined.
3\. MuSe setup to corresponding eNb using the procedure defined for eMBMS in
TS 23.246 [8] clause 8.3.2 - MBMS Session Start Procedure for E-UTRAN step 1
to 6.
4\. BMSC responds to GCSE AS with the address where the DL media is sent,
service announcement /Service ID information for joining the MBMS service (see
TS 26.346 [11]). UE expresses interest for a certain service identified by its
service ID. BMSC authenticates the UE and provides the TMGI, MSK, codec, etc.
Status is used to indicate to GCSE AS if this request is accepted or not. BMSC
also keeps internally the allocated TMGI with the GC ID received from step 2.
5\. GCSE update the Receiver group members with service announcement
information.
6\. Based on the DL media reception address received from step 5, GCSE AS
forwards the media related to this GC.
NOTE 1: Step 5 and 6 can be performed in parallel.
7\. UE monitors the system broadcast for the interested TMGI. When detected,
UE expresses its interest to eNb to receive the DL media. The eNB adjusts
radio parameters to keep the UE in long connected state, and sends the DL
media to UE. RAN can determine the best transmission scheme to forward the
media to UE (i.e. PtP/PtM).
NOTE 2: Currently, eNB does not determine PtP/PtM transmission for eMBMS
bearer. Only PtM is supported.
8\. When UE can receive the DL media using Multicast Delivery, it releases the
Unicast Delivery session to the group server and indicates to GCSE AS that GC
media is now using Multicast Delivery.
After Multicast Delivery Setup has been performed (i.e., GCSE AS has received
service announcement information from BMSC), then GCSE AS can return the
service announcement information to the subsequent UE(s) who wanted to
participate to this GC without further interaction with MuSe function.
#### 6.3.2.2 MuSe and Mobility handling
This solution requires the eNB to keep track of the UE Group Communication
context (e.g. like TMGI and UE relationship) in order to start the Multicast
Delivery at the target cell.
When a Multipoint Service (MuSe) is setup with Geographic Scope requirement,
it is expected only those cell(s) which belongs to the geographical restricted
area can perform the Multicast Delivery. When UE moves around those cells
within the geographical restricted area, it is expected the multicast delivery
session is not disrupted. As Geographic Scope is optional and may not be
required for this MuSe then the Multicast Delivery session is maintain across
the whole PLMN. When the UE moves outside the geographical restricted area, it
will no longer receive the multicast delivery from the serving cell, and the
UE may request the GCSE AS directly via GC1 to rejoin the GC if needed. If UE
was using Unicast Delivery and moved into the serving cell where Multicast
Delivery is possible (based on the UE detecting the TMGI is being broadcasted
by the serving cell), the UE then informs the eNB of the TMGI(s) that it
wishes to receive in order for the eNB to create the UE Group Communication
context, and eNB then starts the DL delivery toward that UE using Multicast
Delivery. When UE can receive the DL media using Multicast Delivery, it
releases the Unicast Delivery to the group server and indicates to GCSE AS
that GC media is now using Multicast Delivery.
The following are the high level steps for the mobility procedure:
1\. During the Multicast Delivery setup procedure as defined in clause
6.3.2.1, the MBMS Session Start Message is sent only toward those eNBs that
are within the geographical restricted area.
Those eNBs receive the TMGI and IP multicast address for this multicast
delivery session.
2\. UE which is participating in a multicast delivery session is always RRC
connected. When a UE expresses its interest for Multicast Delivery, the eNB
adjusts the radio parameters to keep the UE in long connected state.
3\. Intra RAT PS HO is used for mobility procedure. Source eNB indicates the
multicast delivery session(s) (i.e, TMGI(s)) that the UE is currently
participating to the target eNB.
4\. If target eNB has received the MBMS Session Start during the MuSe Setup
procedure (step 1) then the received TMGI is known and can allocate the
corresponding radio level parameter in the HO CMD for PtP/PtM reception at
this target cell. Otherwise, the HO CMD will not contain any radio parameter
for any of the TMGI and multicast delivery session will not be continued when
UE is moved to this target eNB.
Figure 6.3.2.2-1 shows the above principles.
Figure 6.3.2.2-1: Mobility Signalling flow within Group Communication area
a. During the MuSe setup procedure, the eNBs that are serving the GC are given
the IP multicast address to receive the media from BMSC GW for DL
distribution. Active GCSE UE is receiving the media from source eNB.
b-c. At some point, source eNB needs to invoke the intra E-UTRAN handover
procedure based on e.g. Meas. Report, and with the following additions:
\- Source eNB includes the TMGI(s) of the MBMS Services that the UE is
currently receiving to target eNB in eNB to eNB transparent container.
\- Target eNB, based on the received TMGI, responds back with the
corresponding radio parameters for each TMGI in HO CMD for PtP/PtM reception
at the target cell.
d. HO CMD is sent to UE and UE uses the radio parameters for each TMGI(s) to
continue the receiving of the DL media from target cell for each GC.
#### 6.3.2.3 MuSe with voice and video media handling
When a Multipoint Service requires different media type (e.g. voice and video)
for the same Group Communication, a different Multicast Delivery session is
allocated for each media type. Each of the Multicast Delivery session can have
different QoS and bit rate requirements. However, they are linked to the same
MuSe and can be independently removed at any time by the GCSE AS. The UE which
has registered to this Group Communication will be given all the TMGI(s) and
their corresponding media type via GC1; hence the UE can determine if certain
Multicast Delivery session can be ignored.
The following are the high level steps for this procedure:
1\. GCSE AS determines that a MuSe for a particular Group Communication will
consist of more than one Multicast Delivery sessions in order to carry
different media type.
2\. GCSE AS setup a Multipoint Service with MuSe. It gives the QoS/bit-rate
requirements for each Multicast Delivery session separately based on the
requirement of the media type to be carried in each Multicast Delivery
session.
3\. MuSe creates the number of Multicast Delivery sessions as requested by
GCSE AS.
Each Multicast Delivery session has its own TMGI which will be indicated to
GCSE AS.
4\. When UE registers to GCSE AS for this Group Communication, the GCSE AS
informs the UE of all the related TMGIs and their associated component type.
For Multicast Delivery, UE can then decide which TMGIs to monitor from the
serving cell. It means that the UE can choose which Multicast Delivery
sessions it wants to be a part of within the Group Communication.
5\. If a particular Multicast Delivery session for a GC is no longer needed,
GCSE AS requests the MuSe to remove this Multicast Delivery session from this
GC. GCSE AS can make that decision based on e.g. input from the group member
and/or administrator who oversees this GC.
The above procedure can introduce delay toward the receiving group member who
is using Multicast Delivery because the UE relies upon acquiring the
information about the newly added media component from the MCCH. The MCCH can
only be modified once every 5 or 10 seconds dependent upon the MBMS
configuration (the rate of MCCH repetition is configurable between 320 ms and
2560 ms (see TS 36.331 [10])). This means that reception of the newly added
component (e.g. video toward an existing voice group session) will be delayed
until UE is able to decode the MCCH and acquires its radio configuration. The
following new procedure allows the eNB to directly inform the current
participating UEs of the Multicast Delivery radio configuration necessary to
receive the newly added media; thus, eliminating any delays that are due to
the UE relying upon changes to the MCCH and the constraints of the MCCH
modification period.
Figure 6.3.2.3-1: adding an additional media toward an on-going Multicast
Delivery session
1a-b. BM-SC receives a request from an GCSE AS for adding a media (e.g. video)
on the existing GC session. BM-SC creates secondary MBMS session with the
MBMS-GW. It allocates a new TMGI for the new session and also identifies the
current active MBMS session by its TMGI which is referred to as \"linked
TMGI\".
2a-c. BMSC creates a secondary MBMS session toward the MBMS‑GW.
3\. The MBMS‑GW sends a secondary session request (TMGI, linked TMGI, QoS, IP
multicast address for the new secondary MBMS session,) to the eNB that is
serving the current active MBMS session. eNB joins the multicast session for
secondary MBMS session and starts receiving the new media.
4\. In this solution, UEs which are participating in a GC via Multicast
Delivery is always in RRC connected state. When eNB is aware of the secondary
session due to step 3, eNB notifies each of those UEs via RRC signalling with
the new radio related configuration of the secondary MBMS session (i.e., for
the new media) such that UE can immediately start receiving the additional
media via Multicast Delivery mechanism. eNB identifies the relevant UEs based
on its internal stored context from the ongoing active session (i.e., UE and
TMGI correlation).
NOTE: MCCH modification period is shown in the figure for completeness only.
It has no bearing with the above proposal.
### 6.3.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
> Editor\'s note: Impacts on existing nodes or functionality will be added.
### 6.3.4 Solution evaluation
Editor\'s note: The fulfilment of requirements in clause 4.2 needs will be
evaluated.
## 6.4 Solution 4 - GCSE architecture using IMS and eMBMS
### 6.4.1 Functional description
#### 6.4.1.1 Solution description
The following are the salient features of this solution:
1\. GCSE AS is an Application Server in the IMS.
2\. SIP signalling is used for establishment, modification and release of GCSE
GC sessions.
It is also used for joining and leaving pre-established GCSE GC sessions.
3\. eMBMS is an optional feature for the RAN. If available, eMBMS is used for
MuSe delivery on the downlink. The BM-SC function is may be stand-alone or
collocated with the GCSE AS.
4\. The solution allows for switching between unicast and eMBMS delivery for
an ongoing GCSE group communication session.
5\. Unicast bearers are used for uplink communication. In cells where eMBMS
channel is not available, unicast is also used for the downlink.
6\. In the context of this solution \"GCSE group communication\" is synonymous
with a SIP session that is associated with GCSE Group ID i.e. a globally
unique GCSE Group-specific SIP URI (e.g. fire.brigade75\@firstresponder.com or
a conference factory URI). The SIP session can be either pre-established or
set up on the fly.
7\. In one alternative of this architecture the GCSE AS is used as an IMS
conference server as specified in TS 24.147 [9]. The \"GCSE group
communication\" is synonymous with an IMS conferencing session.
8\. The GCSE Application Server exchanges eMBMS-related control information
with the BM-SC either via new reference point (GC2-C) or via the PCRF.
> Editor\'s note: The use of PCRF and the functions provided by PCRF for
> interfacing between GCSE AS and BM-SC is FFS.
#### 6.4.1.2 Architecture reference model
**New or enhanced reference points:**
**Gm** : This is an enhanced Gm. It relies on SIP signalling for
establishment, modification and release of GCSE group communication sessions,
or for joining and leaving pre-established GCSE group communication sessions.
Floor control is performed using BPCF [7] as specified in [z] or RTCP messages
(e.g. like those defined in [6]).
**GC2-U** : This is the user plane reference point between GCSE AS and BM-SC
for eMBMS delivery.
**GC2-C** : This reference point may be used for exchange of control plane
information between GCSE AS and BM-SC for eMBMS delivery.
**Rxsc/Gxsc** : This reference point may be used for exchange of control plane
information between GCSE AS and BM-SC for eMBMS delivery.
**Ut** : In the IMS conferencing architecture alternative Ut is used to update
group related information in the GCSE AS e.g. group membership.
Figure 6.4.1.2-1: GCSE architecture based on IMS and eMBMS
### 6.4.2 Procedures
#### 6.4.2.1 General
The procedures in the present clause are provided as examples only. The
detailed call flows depend on the architecture alternative.
#### 6.4.2.2 GCSE group communication procedures
##### 6.4.2.2.1 Switching from unicast to eMBMS delivery for an ongoing GCSE
group communication session
Outlined in Figure 6.4.2.2.2-1 is the control plane procedure for switching
between unicast and eMBMS delivery for an on-going GCSE group communication
session. It is up to Stage 3 to decide which IMS procedures to use.
Figure 6.4.2.2.1-1: Switching from unicast to eMBMS delivery for an ongoing
GCSE group communication session
1a.-1d. UE joins a GCSE group communication session. It is assumed that at
this point there is no eMBMS channel for this GCSE Group in the cell where the
UE resides. GCSE AS uses unicast delivery in the downlink (e.g. via the same
EPS bearer that UE uses for the uplink or via a different EPS bearer).
2a.-2f. At some point GCSE AS decides to establish an eMBMS channel for this
GCSE Group in this cell. In the user plane a specific GC is identified by the
TMGI (if each GCSE Group is assigned a unique TMGI) or the combination of a
TMGI and a UDP port number (in case GCs from several GCSE Groups are
multiplexed on the same TMGI). As soon as the eMBMS channel is established,
the GCSE AS starts sending data using eMBMS delivery. In parallel GCSE AS
keeps unicast delivery to the UE over the EPS bearer as long as the UE has not
switched to eMBMS.
3a.-3d. GCSE AS uses SIP INFO to inform the UE about the availability of eMBMS
delivery in the cell. The SIP INFO contains media description for delivery via
the eMBMS channel i.e. a TMGI and possibly a UDP port number.
3e.-3i. UE acquires the eMBMS channel and acknowledges the channel acquisition
to GCSE AS using SIP UPDATE. At this point GCSE AS may stop the parallel
unicast delivery for this UE.
4a.-4j. At some point after step 3 GCSE AS may decide that there are not
enough users in the cell anymore to justify eMBMS delivery. GCSE AS re-starts
unicast delivery to the UE and informs the UE to switch to unicast delivery
providing media description for unicast delivery over the EPS bearer.
Editor\'s note: In steps 2a and 4a, the decision function in the GCSE-AS
whether to use establish or release eMBMS bearer and the correspondingly
needed information are FFS.
#### 6.4.2.3 GCSE Group membership procedures
##### 6.4.2.3.1 Subscribing to a GCSE group
Subscribing to a group membership can be done through a SUBSCRIBE / NOTIFY
mechanism. GCSE group identifier is a SIP URI identifier. UE\'s that are part
of the group can SUBSCRIBE to that group.
Editor\'s note: Other mechanisms are FFS.
##### 6.4.2.3.2 UE joining Group Communication
A UE device may join a pre-established GCSE group either by direct request or
at the invitation of the GCSE AS.
Editor\'s note: The method through which the join is done is FFS.
### 6.4.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
Editor\'s note: To be completed.
### 6.4.4 Solution evaluation
Editor\'s note: The fulfilment of requirements in clause 4.2 needs will be
evaluated.
## 6.5 Solution 5 - Group communications with pre-established MBMS broadcast
Bearers and multicast/unicast switching
### 6.5.1 Functional description
These are the functional principles of this solution
\- It is assumed the Public Safety device uses LTE only within the scope of
this solution (the device may have other radio interfaces but these are out of
the scope of this clause).
\- Handling of GCs and group management at the application layer.
\- Mapping of group of users to IP multicast addresses performed based on
application layer criteria as a result of BMSC and application interaction.
\- Distribution of traffic for multicast IP addresses via eMBMS broadcast to
specific areas based on application layer criteria.
\- As defined in TS 23.246 [8], UE\'s are not expected to use IGMP to receive
multicast data on the eMBMS bearer.
\- UEs can participate in application layer GCs either by receiving IP
multicast packets by listening to the eMBMS broadcast associated to a TMGI the
application notifies to the group members, or by receiving IP unicast packets.
\- The UE may directly notify the application when the TMGI-related channel is
available in a cell or not and therefore cause the application to deactivate
or activate unicast transmission to the UE, respectively.
\- It is assumed that the broadcast groups are long term or could be created
on demand. The UE can receive notification of groups available to it on the
Unicast channel (using dedicated signalling with the applications) or by
listening on a dedicated broadcast channel available over the whole PS network
(e.g. a channel associated to a well known TMGI devoted to advertising the
available communications groups in a particular area and related TMGI\'s).
\- The system remains application neutral, except it may provide some PS
optimizations for eMBMS.
\- The support of inter-operator roaming is built into the solution as the PS
applications are a third party to every operator the PS agency needs to have
access to.
\- Different PS applications may be available via the same PDN connection or
different PDN connections.
\- Optional optimization: UEs could be provisioned with Cell ID\'s
constituting the boundary of the group distribution via application layer
interaction (FFS) so that when the UE arrives at a cell where the switch
between unicast and multicast is possible, the application may assist the UE
to decide to switch the UE to/from BROADCAST from/to UNICAST reception,
depending on criticality of not missing any communication or based on any
exceptional cell load reported to the applications by the operator. This
provisioning avoids the need of the UE to always report the cell where it is
to the application and to report just when it enters or exist boundary cells.
Alternately, ULI reporting may be active for the device and the location
information reported to the application via Rx, however this assumes the UE is
in RRC connected state for as long as this is needed to make this optimization
work.
\- Application layer signalling between the UE and the GC application is out
of the scope of GCSE-LTE work item and shall be part of the definition of the
applications using GCSE-LTE capabilities. However GCSE-LTE work item can
provide application developers with guidance on how applications shall be
designed, e.g. by means of informational flows.
In order to implement a solution with these attributes the following system
architecture for GCSE-LTE is proposed.
Figure 6.5.1-1
When the UE uses unicast communications for DL traffic, the path is via the
PGW SGi and the PCRF is providing the application with means to interact with
the infrastructure via Rx interface.
When the UE uses multicast for DL traffic, then the BMSC is providing the
application with means to interact with the infrastructure on the C-plane
interface identified by Sgc-C., and the user plane is in the DL via the BMSC
over the Sgc-U interface.
The uplink user traffic and both DL and UL application signalling with the UE
is via the SGi. Optionally, available group advertisement can also take place
on the broadcast channel.
The application may establish dedicated unicast bearers to deliver content in
unicast mode via the PCRF.
### 6.5.2 Procedures
These flows are examples of UE-network interaction for this solution.
Figure 6.5.2-1: The UE initiates an application and eventually uses MBMS
In this Figure 6.5.2.1, the application is shown to set up the broadcast
transmission path for the GC distribution, by interacting with the BMSC. The
BMSC provides the Application with a TMGI, used over the radio to identify the
broadcast transmission for the Group communication, and optionally a list of
Cell ID\'s at the boundary of the service area of the broadcast
communications. At this point the application has:
1) The mapping of the multicast IP address used for GC and the TMGI.
2) A list of cells at the boundary of the broadcast service area.
With this, the application can start sending DL data to the EPS via the BMSC
over the Sgc-U interface. This interface is simply a user plane interface and
the only way the GC application interacts with the BMSC is by providing the
Multicast address in the IP packets it sends. So, it is really a purely user
plane interface.
In step 9 the UE is powered on and it registers on the user plane with the
application server for the GC, using protocols and procedures outside 3GPP
scope. As part of these procedures, at step 11 the UE obtains the TMGI of the
used for broadcast communications, and optionally a list of the cells it is
required to report to the application upon entering and exiting.
For sake of argument we suppose the UE was not in coverage area where the
Broadcast communication was available, so the application server was triggered
to send DL packets using a DL bearer it can establish via the PCRF (if a
dedicated bearer was required, otherwise the UE shall receive the DL traffic
on the default bearer already available).
Upon mobility, the UE enters a cell where broadcast transmission of the TMGI
provided to it by the GC application is available. So at that stage the UE
decides to join the broadcast distribution and asks the network to release
distribution via its unicast IP address.
Using similar approaches, the flow in the figure 6.5.2.2 here below describes
the switching between broadcast and unicast mode, based solely on TMGI
detection in the cell.
Figure 6.5.2-2: The UE switches from broadcast to unicast and vice-versa
The detection of loss of TMGI is an event that can potentially cause
disruption of communication. Unlike in the case where the UE is using unicast
traffic and then it switched to eMBMS, there is potentially a time interval
(up to 5-10 second in the worst case) where the UE may lose the DL data. This
may not be too critical in certain application, but in some others it could be
critical. Therefore a potential optimization is based on the UE detecting the
boundary of a service area beyond which the TMGI is not offered. This is via a
cell ID list provisioned on the UE or provided at registration time (or
downloaded in the UE upon registration triggering it). This list may also be
updated dynamically or also broadcasted on the MBMS channel specific to an
application.
If the UE was using MBMS and arrives at a cell in the boundary list, as it
triggers the application to assist it in whether it should switch to unicast
or not, it may take decisions to proactively switch to unicast. Also, the UE
notifies the application when it leaves the cell and whether it moves to a
cell with TMGI support or not. The application, based on consideration related
to load from this cell (maybe also based on counting the number of UE\'s that
triggered the assistance and have not yet updated the application they have
left the boundary cell, but also maybe based on cell congestion feedback from
the PCRF - if any was available after the UPCON work is complete), criticality
of not losing data in DL, and other possible criteria related to the specific
application, could decide to hint or request the UE to switch to unicast while
it is still receiving the broadcast data. Here is an example flow in figure
6.5.2.3:
Figure 6.5.2-3: The UE switches from Broadcast to Unicast and vice-versa using
application assistance
The amount of messages required when the applications provide more
intelligence in switching is greater, however the advantage is that the
decision to switch to unicast/broadcast is controlled by the application. If
the application server is also shared by many applications, it allows
coordinated decisions for multiple applications. It should also be noted the
UE may take unilateral decisions in the direction unicast- broadcast if
network control was not necessary in this direction, but still the need to
update the GC application on this decision would be relevant to keep
accounting of the number of users in a cell.
### 6.5.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
This solution has minimal impact on the existing system:
The only impact identified is that the interface between the BMSC and GC
applications needs to be standardised
### 6.5.4 Solution evaluation
Editor\'s note: The fulfilment of requirements in clause 4.2 needs will be
evaluated.
## 6.6 Solution 6: MuSe with configurable geographic scope
### 6.6.1 General description
This solution addresses the requirements relating to the geographical scope of
GCSE Group Communications as specified in clause 5.2.2, TS 22.468 [3]. In
addition, the following requirement relating to the Key Issue #3: MuSe with
Geographical Scope, is also addressed by this solution:
\- When requested, a notification shall be sent to a requesting entity when
the group member ceases to participate in the communications from the GCSE
group, i.e. in case of a group with restricted geographic scope when the group
member leaves the Group\'s Service Area.
This solution builds over the \"GCs using pre-established eMBMS bearers\"
solution described in clause 6.1.
The solution in clause 6.1 proposes the use of PCRF as the interface between
the GCSE AS and the BM-SC for the exchange of MBMS control information. This
solution does not have such restrictions on the placement of the PCRF. The
methods for the implementation of the C-Plane and U-Plane components of the
GC2 reference point is FFS.
Editor\'s note: Implementation of GC2 reference point is FFS.
The signalling procedures between the UE and the GCSE AS (over GC1 reference
point) can be based on IMS-style signalling as described in the solution in
clause 6.4.
### 6.6.2 Procedures
#### 6.6.2.1 Group Communication within configured Geographic Service Area
This solution provides the following capabilities in addition to the
capabilities provided by the solution in clause 6.1:
1\. By default, each GCSE Group is of system wide scope. This solution
provides the capability (e.g. to the Users) to configure Geographic Service
Areas for each GCSE Group within which GC services are to be provided.
2\. It is also possible for the Users to reconfigure the Geo Service Areas for
the GCSE Group(s).
3\. This solution assumes that the Users (such as Public Safety, Dispatch
Services) have a relationship with the 3GPP system operator whereby Geo
Service Areas have a predefined mapping with the corresponding EPS MBMS
Service Areas, such as in terms of the lists of MBMS Service Areas. For
example, a Geo Service Area may comprise of sub-Areas A, B, C, ..., each of
which is pre-mapped to a corresponding List A, List B, List C of MBMS Service
Area Identities (MBMS SAIs).
Editor\'s note: How Geo Service Areas are mapped to MBMS Service Areas is FFS.
4\. Such mapping of Geo Service Areas to EPS specific MBMS Service Areas is
done by appropriate configurations within the EPS. Such configurations ensure
that MBMS Service Areas are not larger than the corresponding Geo Service
Areas.
Figure 6.6.2.1-1: Geographic Service Area configured for a GCSE Group
Some salient enhancements of this solution over the solution described in
clause 6.1 are as follows:
1\. (Steps 1-2): When requesting the TMGIs for GCSE Group(s) from the MuSe
function, the GCSE AS includes the Geo Service Area(s) for the respective GCSE
Group (s) also in the request message. The mapping of Geo Service Area(s) to
the corresponding MBMS Service Area(s) and associated TMGI(s) are made
available to the GCSC AS. The GCSE AS maintains such mapping of the GCSE Group
IDs with their associated TMGIs and MBMS Service Areas(s) e.g. in the terms of
the lists of MBMS SAIs.
2\. (Step 3-4): After a UE attaches to the EPS, turns on a GCSE application
and registers with the GCSE AS; in addition to sending the GCSE Group ID to
the GCSE AS, the UE includes its location information also in the registration
message.
NOTE 1: The location information passed by the UE to the GCSE AS can be in
terms of Geo Area A, Area B etc. that is understood by the GCSE AS.
NOTE 2: It is assumed that the GCSE Group ID(s) corresponding to the GCSE
Application(s) is preconfigured at the UE. The details of such configuration
procedures is FFS.
3\. (Step 5): The GCSE validates that the requesting UE is located within the
allowed Geo Service Area before returning the TMGIs for the GCSE Group(s) and
the associated MBMS Service Area information to the UE. In addition to saving
the TMGIs for the GCSE Group(s), the UE saves the associated MBMS Service Area
information also. This way, the UE can know when it moves out of the
configured MBMS Service Area.
NOTE 3: Validation of the location of the registering UE ensures that the
Transmitting and the Receiving Members are within the configured Geo Service
Area.
4\. If the Geo Service Area(s) of a GCSE Group(s) is/are reconfigured, the
GCSE AS updates its cached mapping of the new Geo Service Area(s) to the
respective new MMBS Service Area(s) by performing the TMGI request procedure
again with the MuSe function. The GCSE AS pushes such new/updated MBMS Service
Area(s) information to all registered GCSE Group Members using the procedure
such as those described in Step 5.
5\. (Steps 6-7): UE reads the TMGI Information and determines that it is
currently located within the MBMS Service Area for the GCSE Group of interest.
UE notifies GCSE AS accordingly, including the within MBMS Service Area
indication and the TMGI.
6\. (Step 12-14): The solution in clause 6.1 proposes the pre-establishment of
the MBMS bearers over the MBMS Service Area(s). As a difference, this solution
does not propose such pre-established MBMS bearers. The GCSE AS can provide DL
communications to the UEs via unicast bearers till such time that MBMS bearers
are established and acquired by the respective UEs.
NOTE 4: The time taken for the setting up the MBMS bearers, the nature of the
applications, latency requirements, number of receiving members etc. can be
the factors for consideration by the GCSE AS for making the decision about
when to set up the MBMS bearers.
7\. (Steps 16-18): Once the GCSE AS decides to provide DL GCs via MuSe; the
GCSE AS passes MBMS Service Area information (e.g. list of MBMS Service Area
Identities) where MBMS based services are to be provided to the MuSe function
via. GC2 reference point. The MBMS Service Area information ensures that DL
MBMS based GC is restricted to a geographic area of interest.
8\. (Steps 22-23) When a UE moves to a new location and determines that it is
out of the MBMS Service Area, the UE notifies the GCSE AS of its new location
and the loss of MBMS transmission indication for the GCSE Group of interest.
On verifying that the UE at the new location is still within its configured
Geo Service Area or that the UE is authorized to continue in this GC from the
new location, the GCSE AS can decide to provide DL GC using unicast bearer(s).
9\. If the GCSE AS determines that UE at the new location has moved outside
the Geo Service Area; such information can be used by the GCSE AS for
generating Notification to the requesting entities, informing that the UE
(group member) has left group\'s Service Area. This addresses the requirement
related to sending notification to the requesting entity, as has specified for
Key issue #3.
#### 6.6.2.2 Group Communication with geographic service area override and
filtering
This solution provides the following capabilities in addition to the
capabilities provided by the solution in clause 6.1:
1\. It is possible for the system to override geographic area restrictions for
a GCSE Group for a particular GC transmission for its Receiving Members. A
Transmitting Member initiates modify Geo Area Request that includes parameters
such as \"override location:abc\", to the GCSE AS. Alternatively, such
\"override\" request can be initiated by the \"dispatcher\" entity at the GCSE
AS.
2\. The system also provides a mechanism to restrict a particular GC to a sub-
geo area within the geographical scope of that group. In this case only the
Receiving Members that are within the sub-geo area receive the GC. Such
restriction for Receiving within a sub-geo-area can be initiated by the
\"dispatcher\" entity at the GCSE AS also.
Figure 6.6.2.2-1: GC with Geographic Service Area filter
Some salient enhancements of this solution over the solution described in
clause 6.1 are as follows.
1\. (Steps 9-11): In the Modify Geo Area Request signalling to the GCSE AS,
the UE includes parameters such as \"Filter Areas: B, C\" asking for the
following instances of GC transmissions to be limited to Geo Areas B and C
only. The request may include filter-Media Type(s) information also indicating
the types of the media that need to be delivered in the limited Geo Area(s).
On validating that the UE is authorized to make such a request, and that Geo
Areas B and C are a subset of the Geo Service Area for this Group, the request
is granted.
2\. For the case of overriding the geographic area restrictions, the UE
includes parameters such as \"Override location:abc\" in the Modify Geo Area
Request signalling to the GCSE AS. On validating that the UE is authorized to
make such an override request at the location identified by \"location:abc:\",
the request is granted. Such \"override\" procedure is not detailed in this
illustration.
3\. (Step 12): The GCSE AS decides to provide DL GC within the filtered-Geo
Service Area (Geo Areas B and C) based on filter criterion received from the
UE. Alternatively, the GCSE AS may apply geographic filtering on specific
instances of GC based on local policy. Such DL GC within \"filtered Geo
areas\" can also be initiated by the GCSE AS autonomously, such as for
Dispatch Services. Knowing that certain UEs are registered within the filtered
Geo Area, and other factors such as number of registered users etc., the GCSE
AS decides to provide DL GC via MuSe.
4\. (Step 13): The GCSE AS passes MBMS Service Area information for Geo Areas
B and C (e.g. list of MBMS Service Area Identities for Geo Areas B and C)
where MBMS based services are to be provided and the desired Media Type
information, to the MuSe function via. GC2 reference point.
Editor\'s note: Describes the high-level operation, procedures and information
flows for the solution.
### 6.6.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
Editor\'s note: Impacts on existing nodes or functionality will be added.
### 6.6.4 Solution evaluation
Editor\'s note: The fulfilment of requirements in clause 4.2 needs will be
evaluated.
## 6.7 Solution 7: Assign and Re-assign Priority and Pre-emption capability
for the GC
### 6.7.1 Solution description
#### 6.7.1.1 General
This solution addresses key issue 8 and clarifies how to assign/re-assign
Priority and Pre-emption for GC.
The priority level defined on the application level is for priority and pre-
emption purpose. In the EPS QoS model the ARP parameter is used for the same
purpose and contains information about the priority level, pre-emption
capability and pre-emption vulnerability. So the application level priority is
mapped to the ARP parameter under the consideration of the specific GC. The
concrete mapping is specific to the respective EPS network and operator.
The priority level mapping between application priority and EPS QoS parameter
is performed in the EPS network based on policy information preconfigured in
the BM-SC, PCRF or a group related subscription. All can provide the linkage
between the priority level(s) of the GC and the associated EPS QoS (ARP)
parameter(s).
Group Members within a GCSE Group are permitted to have different priorities.
It is required that the uplink traffic, i.e. the traffic from UE to GCSE AS,
can reflect the user priority in the GC. In that case, the GCSE AS informs the
EPS about group member related priorities, the EPS shall take this into
account when mapping to the ARP parameters for the uplink traffic. For the
downlink traffic only the GC priority needs to be reflected.
GC may have different media, e.g. voice/image. In such case, the media
belonging to the same GC may have different priorities. If the GCSE AS informs
the EPS about media related priorities, the EPS shall take this into account
when mapping to the EPS QoS (ARP) parameters. For a particular downlink media
within a PLMN the priority level should however be the same no matter which
transport path (i.e. unicast or multicast) is selected.
#### 6.7.1.2 Session Setup Procedure
UE may send GC1 signalling over default EPS bearer, or bearer carrying IMS
signalling (if IMS is used for GCSE). To avoid Group Communication failure in
case network resources are limited, the ARP of the bearer used for GC1
signalling needs to be upgraded. The GCSE AS requests the PCRF to upgrade the
ARP of the EPS bearer used for GC1 signalling, when GC1 registration is
performed, if needed (e.g. in case that the GCSE Group is configured with
higher priority).
For the unicast delivery the GCSE AS sends the Media Component information,
Priority, user\'s priority to the PCRF via the Rx interface. Based on those
parameters PCRF maps the received application layer priority to the EPS level
ARP parameter and sends to the PGW.
For the muliticast delivery, the GCSE AS need to send the Media Component
information, Priority, the group communication service ID, to the BM-SC via
the GC2 interface. Based on those parameters the BM-SC maps the received GC
priority parameter into the EPS level QoS (ARP) parameter. When the eMBMS
bearer is to be setup, the mapped ARP parameter is included.
#### 6.7.1.3 Session update Procedure
For the priority change it can be categorized into two types:
1\. Per UE granularity update triggered by the GCSE AS .The typical use case
is that the user\'s group member priority has been changed. The updated
user\'s priority information is received by the PCRF. Based on that
information the EPS QoS parameter is updated
2\. Per Group granularity update. It is required that the Group Communication
priority level can be reassigned.
To update the ARP parameter of a unicast bearer, the procedure defined in the
clause 5.4.2.1 of TS 23.401 [5] is used. If one group priority is changed and
the unicast bearer is to be updated, the GCSE AS triggers the session
modification per UE via the Rx/Gx interface.
For the MBMS bearer the QoS parameter is not supported to be updated per TS
23.246 [8]. To update the ARP parameter, two procedures are possible.
\- Enhance the existing MBMS Session Update procedure defined in the clause
8.8.4 of TS 23.246 [8]. The BM-SC sends the Session update Request message to
the MBMS‑GW including the updated ARP parameter. If the distributed MCE
architecture is deployed, it also needs to ensure the update is synchronized
among the different eNBs in the same MBSFN area.
\- New TMGI replace the old TMGI. The BM-SC establishes a new MBMS bearer
service with the updated ARP parameter. After the new MBMS bearer has been
established successfully, the BM-SC notifies the new TMGI to the GCSE AS. By
that the GCSE AS can notify the interested UE to replace the old TMGI with the
new TMGI via GC1 interface. The old MBMS bearer can be kept for a configured
time to assure all the interested UEs have been notified.
#### 6.7.1.4 Session Release Procedure
One UE can join multiple GCs simultaneously. All the signalling traffic from
UE to the GCSE AS may share the same connection, i.e. EPS bearer. It is
required that the bearer used for the signalling traffic always reflects the
priority of the highest uplink GC traffic. When a GC bearer is released, the
PCRF needs to check the priority of the IP flow of the signalling traffic and
update the corresponding PCC rule if the highest uplink GC traffic has been
changed.
In the congestion case the bearer used for GC service may be released.
\- For the unicast delivery if the GC bearer is released the GCSE AS can get
the release notification. It depends on GCSE AS logic on how to handle this
case.
\- For the multicast delivery the MBMS bearer is \'suspended\', i.e. packets
are dropped in eNB without any message sent from eNB to BM-SC. The interested
UE can detect the related TMGI is removed from MCCH. The UE shall treat this
scenario in a manner the same as an MBMS to unicast switch (non make-before-
break) as described in clause 6.1.2.2.3. It depends on GCSE AS logic how to
handle this case.
NOTE 1: MBMS bearer service resumption, if and when pre-emption is no longer
necessary, can be treated in the same manner as the currently agreed procedure
for switching from unicast to MBMS (clause 6.1.2.2.4).
NOTE 2: The MBMS service area may consist of more than one MBSFN area (i.e,.
controlled by multiple MCEs). Hence, this solution only indicates that a MBSFN
area where the UE is currently residing is not transmitting, and does not
necessarily mean the whole MBMS service area is affected.
### 6.7.2 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
There are no impacts on the PGW. The additional functionalities on the
PCRF/BM-SC are listed as below,
PCRF
\- Assure the priority of the GC signalling IP flow always reflects the
highest priority of the uplink GC communication UE involved.
BM-SC
\- Support the priority change of the MBMS bearer.
For Rx interface the following parameters need be sent from GCSE AS to PCRF:
\- Media Component information (e.g. media type, bandwidth).
\- Priority.
\- User\'s group member priority.
For GC2 interface the following parameters need be sent from GCSE AS to BM-SC:
\- Media Component information (e.g. media type, bandwidth).
\- Priority.
\- Group Communication service ID.
### 6.7.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses the key issue#8 \'Priority and Pre-emption on Group
Communication\'. It has the following advantages:
\- Reuse the existing EPS ARP parameter.
\- The mapping between the application level priority and EPS layer priority
is performed in the EPS network and under the operator\'s control.
\- UE can join multiple Groups sharing the same EPS bearer for Group
Communication signalling.
\- Group members within a single GCSE group can have different priorities,
which is also reflected on the EPS network.
\- Support the priority change on the MBMS bearer.
## 6.8 Solution 8: Service continuity from unicast to multicast delivery
This solution is related to Key issue #5 \"Service Continuity\".
### 6.8.1 Functional Description
This solution for service continuity from unicast to MBMS delivery proposes a
3GPP network-oriented approach to inform the UE about the established MBMS
bearer service related to the GC received currently over unicast delivery.
The following are the main principles of this solution:
\- The MME maintains UE context containing the GC service ID (GC-ID).
\- The MME maintains MBMS bearer context containing GC service ID (GC-ID).
\- Upon a handover of a UE into a cell which supports MBMS delivery for the GC
service currently received over unicast, the MME indicates to the UE the TMGI
of the GC service, so that the UE can join the MBMS delivery.
### 6.8.2 Procedures
Figure 6.8.2-1 shows the procedures for service continuity when the UE is
connected to a cell which provides multicast delivery (i.e. eMBMS bearer
service) of the GC service which is currently received via unicast delivery.
It is proposed that the MME maintains a UE\'s context including the GC service
identifier (GC-ID or APN). Upon handover, the MME determines that the GC
service currently received over unicast bearer is distributed over eMBMS
bearer in the target cell.
The thick arrows in Figure 6.8.2-1 show the data flow and the thin arrows show
the signalling flow between the functional entities.
Figure 6.8.2-1: Service continuity when UE moves into eMBMS service area
The following steps are performed:
\- In step (1) the UE establishes GC service over eNB1. The UE learns the GC
service ID form the GC-AS and informs the MME with GC-ID over NAS exchange. As
eNB1 is not part of the eMBMS bearer service (or no eMBMS bearer service has
been established yet), the GC service delivery is via unicast bearer. The MME
stores in the UE\'s context the GC service identifier (GC-ID, e.g. APN,
session ID). Optionally the UE may indicate a GC-ID for the specific GC
service. From the UE\'s point of view, the eMBMS bearer service can be seen as
pre-established prior to the handover procedure.
\- In step (2), the MME stores in the MBMS context the Group service
identifier (GC-ID). The MME is able to map the relation of the GC-ID of the
unicast bearers with the multicast MBMS bearer identifier.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS how the MME is provided with the GC-ID in the MBMS
bearer context.
\- In step (3) the UE performs an inter-eNB handover from eNB1 to eNB2
according to TS 23.401 [5]. After the handover procedure the UE receives the
GC service data over unicast delivery via eNB2.
\- In step (4), the MME determines that the GC service, which the UE receives
over unicast EPS bearer, is provided by the eMBMS bearer in this cell. The MME
indicates to the UE that the GC service can be obtained via eMBMS bearer
service, e.g. MME indicates the TMGI of the eMBMS bearer service.
\- In step (5) the UE starts scanning the broadcasted cell system information
(SIB) to discover the radio resources for the eMBMS bearer service.
In step (5.1) The UE initiates procedures to join the eMBMS bearer service as
described in TS 23.246 [8]. After steps (5) and (5.1) the UE is able to
receive the GC service via eMBMS bearer service.
\- In steps (6.1) the UE uses application-level signalling to inform the GC-AS
about the ability to receive GC service data over multicast delivery. In step
(6.2) the GC-AS can acknowledge the reception of the message in step (6.1) and
to terminate the transmission of GC service data over unicast delivery.
The procedures described in Figure 6.8.2-1 are also applicable to the case
where the eMBMS bearer service is established after or during the UE receives
the GC service data over unicast delivery. After the eMBMS bearer service is
set up, similar to step (4) in Fig. 10, the MME determines that the unicast
EPS bearer established for GC service over eNB1 is used for the same service
as the newly established eMBMS bearer service in eNB1\'s cell. The MME
indicates to the UE that the GC service can be obtained via eMBMS bearer
service, and more specifically the MME indicates the TMGI of the eMBMS bearer
service.
### 6.8.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
Impacts to UE:
\- Support transfer of MBMS-related information (TMGI) over NAS protocol.
Impacts to MME:
\- Support transfer of MBMS-related information (TMGI) over NAS protocol to
UE.
\- Supports the reception and storing of Group session ID in the MBMS bearer
context.
Impacts to BM-SC / MBMS-GW:
\- Support the forwarding of Group session ID to the MME over SGmb and Sm
interfaces.
### 6.8.4 Solution evaluation
Editor\'s note: The fulfilment of requirements in clause 4 needs will be
evaluated.
## 6.9 Solution 9: Group Management and associated user interaction
Group Management and associated user interaction for GCSE_LTE involve
functionality and performance solution considerations at the application level
and the EPS level.
Editor\'s note: Group management contexts for the EPS level are FFS.
### 6.9.1 UE and GCSE AS roles and requirements
Specific Group Management functionality and associated user interaction can be
handled at the application layer. The corresponding procedure and procedure
between the UE and GCSE AS via GC1 is out of scope for Rel‑12.
The specific group Management functionality considered in this solution is:
\- group creation and group membership control and associated user interaction
(adding/removing member), encryption key refreshment.
\- notifications when group communications start, ability of user to
accept/reject/ignore (and for the system to require a user to accept) a group
communication.
### 6.9.2 Group management not at BM-SC level
In order to avoid membership management control at the BM-SC level (i.e.,
aware of who is being added or removed for a particular GCSE group), the eMBMS
security procedure (TS 33.246 [12]) is not used for this purpose. The GCSE
media encryption (if required) is provided at the application layer by the
GCSE AS, and GCSE AS is responsible to ensure the removed member will not be
able to listen in to the media provided by Mulitcast Delivery (e.g. based on
application specific methods). There is no requirement toward GC2 with this
approach.
Figure 6.9.2-1: GCSE media encryption may be provided by the Application layer
NOTE: eMBMS security in addition to the encrypted GCSE media from GCSE AS
should be possible.
### 6.9.3 Solution evaluation
\- Any group management happening over the GC1 between the UE and GCSE AS is
out of scope of this study, includes group creation and group membership
control and associated user interaction, notifications when group
communications start, ability of user to accept/reject/ignore (and for the
system to require a user to accept) a group communication, membership control
(delete or adding member).
Editor\'s note: How Group Management at the application level could affect the
EPS level (e.g. does MME/eNB/PGW/PCRF needs to be GCSE group aware and for
what purpose) is FFS!
\- GCSE media encryption (if needed) may be provided by the Application layer.
The encryption requirement (and key refresh, etc) becomes an application level
requirement.
NOTE: This proposal avoids BM-SC to have GCSE group membership awareness;
hence, no impacts toward GC2 for group management purpose. The overall
security aspect will be subjected to SA WG3 analysis.
## 6.10 Solution 10: Using pre-established eMBMS bearers as generic multicast
delivery bearer
When the eMBMS bearer is pre-established for the purpose of serving multiple
GCSE groups, the following procedures are used:
\- terminals interested in different group communication and waiting for
possible broadcast session to start would all monitor this same generic pre-
established eMBMS bearer. The identity for this bearer (e.g. TMGI) and
identification of the relevant group communication (e.g. UDP port#) and
associated decryption keys are done based on the application layer signalling
between GCSE AS and UE.
\- once a session for a given service starts:
\- its data is broadcast for some time on the generic bearer (and hence
received by all terminals monitoring this bearer); the precise identity of the
service in question is signalled in-band as part of the scheduled data. It is
assumed that the terminals not authorized to receive the service content will
not have the keys to decipher the content.
\- eventually, for the service with session starting a separate broadcast
bearer of its own is established, identified with its own identifiers, at
which point the broadcasting of the data moves from the generic bearer to the
service-specific bearer. (The receiving terminals will notice this from the
appearance of the service in question on the MCCH channel). This is to stop
draining the batteries of terminals not addressed by the service in question.
\- This way, only one such generic bearer per MCH channel (characterized by
the same set of cells, same set of reserved subframes, and same modulation and
coding used in transmission) needs to be kept pre-established and group-
specific broadcast bearers can still be set up only on need basis.
### 6.10.1 Solution evaluation
Editor\'s Note: The fulfilment of requirements in clause 4.2 needs will be
evaluated.
Same as solution 6.1 with the following additions:
a) the pre-established eMBMS bearer may be required to be in a much bigger
area in order to account for multiple GCSE groups with different geo-graphic
requirements.
b) GCSE AS needs to send data to both multicast delivery sessions (pre-
established and dedicated eMBMS bearers) for transitioning period (i.e., allow
UE to switch the DL reception with the dedicated TMGI).
c) UE needs to monitor the availability of the dedicated eMBMS bearer in order
to switch the DL reception from the dedicated eMBMS bearer when available.
d) more UE battery consumption when the pre-established eMBMS bearer is
deployed with GCSE groups being multiplexing into single TMGI.
## 6.11 Solution 11: Scalability above the SGi reference
### 6.11.1 Functional Description
Having just one Group Call Application Server that serves all users of all
groups and all Public Safety services across a whole country is likely to be
impractical and/or undesirable.
**For the purposes of 3GPP Release 12** , it is assumed that:
a) A GCSE-AS may (or need not) be shared by multiple Public Safety bodies.
b) One GCSE Group is only handled by one GCSE-AS.
c) In the context of one MBMS session (one TMGI), one GCSE AS can only be
connected to one BMSC, and vice versa. For networks (e.g. with large
geographic scopes) that use multiple BM-SCs and have GCSE Groups that need to
span the BM-SC boundaries, the GCSE AS can establish a separate (duplicate)
multicast session with each BM-SC and the group members can monitor the
separate TMGIs allocated by each BM-SC.
d) Multiple GCSE-ASs may be connected to the BM-SC and PCRF, while respecting
the restriction in bullet c) above.
e) Typically the UE registers to just one GCSE-AS for all its GCSE Groups,
but, in some circumstances (e.g. the user is a member of a national security
agency group and is joining a local/county police group), the UE may need to
register with more than one GCSEAS.
**In the future, beyond 3GPP Release 12,** it is envisaged that:
i) A GCSE-AS to GCSE-AS interface is specified that allows groups hosted on
different GCSE-ASs to be joined together (e.g. a group of firemen hosted by
one GCSE-AS are - on a per task/incident basis - linked to the appropriate
group of policeman; or groups in adjacent European countries are temporarily
linked to handle an incident on their border).
### 6.11.2 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
The consequences of a network having multiple BM-SCs needs to be verified.
### 6.11.3 Solution evaluation
\- from c) in clause 6.11.1, one MBMS session is supported by one BM-SC and
one GCSE-AS.
\- from c) in clause 6.11.1, to handle networks with multiple BM-SCs (and GCSE
Groups that span their boundary) the GC2 interface will need to be able to
connect multiple BM-SCs to one GCSE-AS.
\- from d) in clause 6.11.1, to handle large numbers of MBMS sessions the GC2
interfaces will need to be able to connect multiple GCSE-ASs to one BM-SC.
\- from e) in clause 6.11.1, the UE may need to connect to more than one GCSE-
AS simultaneously. It is assumed that this can be supported by the UE on a
single default bearer, and, is supported by existing IMS functionality.
# 7 Evaluation
Editor\'s note: this clause contains the overall evaluation of various
solutions.
## 7.1 Common approach
The following architecture diagram shows a composite view of different
solutions from clauses 6.1 to 6.5.
Figure 7.1-1: Composite view of different solutions on GCSE
When analyzing the different solutions from the present document (clauses 6.1
to 6.5), the following principles were common among those and shall be used to
form the base-line solution.
1\. Use of BM-SC and MBMS-GW in the core network for Multipoint Service.
2\. GC2 is used to request the setup of the Multipoint Service. GC2 consists
on both user plane and control plane components.
3\. GC1 is used by the UE for GCSE group registration and to relay eMBMS
related info, and for signalling to the GCSE AS for the purpose of service
continuity . No protocol work is expected on GC1. It is shown for completeness
only.
4\. GCSE AS determines if DL media for a particular GCSE group communication
(or UE/Receiving group member) is using Unicast Delivery or Multicast
Delivery.
5\. UL traffic is always done via unicast.
6\. Multipoint Service is to be realized using eMBMS (TS 23.246 [8]).
7\. Reusing the existing EPS QoS parameters.
### 7.1.1 GC2
#### 7.1.1.1 Information exchanged between GCSE AS and BM-SC
The following information needs to be exchanged between the GCSE AS and BM-SC
on the GC2 control plane interface:
From BM-SC to GCSE AS:
\- User Service Description (USD) of the MBMS User Service established by the
BM-SC (which contains information about the media including serviceId, TMGI,
multicast address/port of media, etc.)
\- Information regarding the bearer establishment state.
\- Information needed to route media packets from GCSE AS to the BM-SC (e.g.
IP address(es), port(s)).
From GCSE AS to BM-SC:
\- Area where the group call is targeted (identified by MBMS SAI(s) defined in
TS 23.003 [13] or ECGI(s) defined in TS 23.003 [13]).
\- Session information (e.g. Media Component information (e.g. media type,
bandwidth), Group Priority, Group Communication service ID, etc.).
NOTE: The impacts to GC2 related to eMBMS security will be studied by SA WG3.
#### 7.1.1.2 GC2 procedure
The following call flows show a high level procedure on GC2 for multicast
delivery service.
NOTE 1: More flows are expected during normative phase.
Figure 7.1.1.2-1: GC2 Interface procedure
NOTE 2: parameters listed below are example. Any parameter to be carried over
GC2 needs further discussion during normative phase of the work.
> 1\. GCSE AS sends a MuSe Setup Request message to BM-SC to indicate the
> attributes of a group communication (e.g. MBMS Service Area, Media component
> information, Group Priority, and Group Communication Service ID).
>
> 2\. BM-SC responds with MuSe Setup Response message with information for
> GCSE AS for multicast delivery. This includes e.g. USD and media packet
> routing address (IP address/port).
>
> 3\. GCSE AS delivers the USD to the interested UE. GCSE AS may start the
> multicast delivery immediately (e.g. pre-established scenario (solution 1))
> by invoking step4. For dynamic usage scenario (solution 2), GCSE AS may only
> start the multicast delivery when there are sufficient users within a cell.
>
> 4\. GCSE AS sends a MuSe Start message to start the multicast delivery. It
> includes the Group Communication Service ID to identify the session. GCSE AS
> sends the media toward the routing address given from step 2.
>
> This triggers the eMBMS session start procedure as defined in TS 23.246 [8]
> clause 4.4.3.2.
NOTE 3: For the pre-established scenario, it should be possible to combine
step 1 to 4 above as one operation.
> 5\. At any time after step 2, GCSE AS may use MuSe Update (e.g. for new
> priority setting) .
>
> This triggers the eMBMS session update procedure similar to TS 23.246 [8]
> clause 4.4.3.6.
>
> 6\. At any time after step 2, GCSE AS may send MuSe Stop message (e.g. Group
> Communication Service ID) to remove a multicast delivery from BM-SC.
>
> This triggers the eMBMS session stop procedure as defined in TS 23.246 [8]
> clause 4.4.3.5.
NOTE 4: TS 36.300 [2] has Suspend/Resume procedure defined for eMBMS bearer.
Allowing GC2 to trigger Suspend/Resume procedure directly needs FFS.
#### 7.1.1.3 Control plane and User plane of GC2
GC2 is an IP interface. The protocol stack for control/user plane is FFS.
### 7.1.2 Roaming Architecture
The model which is assumed is that the GCSE AS is not associated to any PLMN
(regardless of the wireless access subscription of the UEs that use it) and it
is merely perceived as a third party application server by each Serving PLMN
users are in. In addition:
\- When the group communication service is provided using unicast bearers,
there is no additional requirement to the support of GCSE in roaming than
enabling plain EPS roaming and ability of the GCSE AS to access QoS control
capabilities via a Rx interface supported in the HPLMN (Home routed and Local
breakout via S9 interface) . The HPLMN is defined as the PLMN where the
wireless subscription of the UE is (as the GCSE AS is not associated to any
PLMN).
\- When the service is offered via eMBMS bearers in particular regions of the
serving PLMN, the GCSE AS is required to use eMBMS bearers of the serving PLMN
according to GCSE framework, to have access to a GC2 interface offered by the
serving PLMN. In fact there is no way to use the Mz interface to offer eMBMS
Roaming support in Rel-12.
Since the GCSE AS is a third party application server, the GCSE AS can access
the required network resources to deliver the GCSE service, whether the
serving PLMN is the Home PLMN or a different VPLMN. From application layer
standpoint this is possible as long as agreements are in place between the
owner of the GCSE AS and the serving PLMN to use the serving PLMN resources
(mediated by the HPLMN, in the case of the PCC interface).
It is assumed the PLMN selection proceeds using current methods. When a PLMN
is selected the UE registers or re-registers with the GCSE AS and reports to
it the PLMN ID of the current serving network as well as its own HPLMN ID. The
GCSE AS can then, based on this, determine it if has a GC2 connection
agreement for the serving PLMN and if so report to the UE the eMBMS related
service data required to use the service via eMBMS delivery in the PLMN. Also,
the HPLMN ID is needed to identify the contact point for the Rx interface as
it is assumed the Rx interface is supported by the HPLMN.
If no GC2 connection agreement with the GCSE AS is available in the serving
PLMN, then the GCSE AS may provide the service using unicast, if so was
acceptable.
If availability of eMBMS service in the serving PLMN is requirement by the
GCSE AS, a possibility to make sure that automatic network selection yields
networks that are providing GC2 to the AS is that the UE (the USIM) is
provisioned by the HPLMN with a set of preferred PLMNs the Public Safety
agency knows to support GC2 agreement. Also the HPLMN may forbid access to any
other PLMN even in manual selection mode if so was desired, by rejecting
attempts to use PLMNs other than those with which the GCSE AS has a GC2
connection.
As a summary: the GC2 interface is always supported in the VPLMN, and the Rx
always in the home network. As unicast bearers can be supported in Home routed
mode, or in Local breakout (using PCC roaming interface S9 and a Rx provided
by the home network), the following figure 7.1.2 -1 and figure 7.1.2 -2 hold
respectively:
Figure 7.1.2-1: Home routed unicast case
Figure 7.1.2-2: LBO unicast case
Which one of the approaches should be selected by an operator or a public
safety agency operating a GCSE AS is not in scope of this Technical Report.
### 7.1.3 Call flows and procedures
#### 7.1.3.1 Downlink Media path setup for multipoint service
##### 7.1.3.1.1 General
The clause describes two procedures for multipoint bearer setup on the
downlink.
\- using pre-established eMBMS bearers.
\- using dynamic eMBMS bearers.
##### 7.1.3.1.2 Pre-established eMBMS bearers
In this scenario, the GCSE AS pre-establishes eMBMS session in certain pre-
configured areas before the start of the group communication. When a UE
originates a request for group communication from one of these areas, the pre-
established eMBMS session is used for the DL traffic.
See clauses 6.1.2.1, 6.10, and 6.5.2 for example flows using pre-established
eMBMS bearers.
##### 7.1.3.1.3 Dynamic eMBMS bearers
In this scenario, the GCSE AS establishes unicast communication with the UE
for the DL traffic at the start of the group communication session. When the
GCSE AS decides to use multipoint service, the GCSE AS establishes an eMBMS
session with the BM-SC. The GCSE AS provides the necessary eMBMS service
information to the UE so that the UE can switch to eMBMS for the DL traffic in
areas where it is available.
NOTE: The above procedures assume there are no eMBMS bearers at the time of
session set up. If eMBMS bearers have already been established for the group
(e.g. dynamic eMBMS bearer setup for another UE belonging to the same group),
the GCSE AS can provide the eMBMS service information to the new UE without
the need to set up a unicast session.
See clauses 6.2.2, 6.3.2.1 and 6.4.2.2.1 for example flows using dynamic eMBMS
bearers.
#### 7.1.3.2 Media Traffic using unicast and eMBMS on DL
The following diagram shows an example of a scenario where a combination of
unicast and eMBMS traffic is used by the GCSE AS on the DL to different UEs.
Here, UE-1 and UE-2 receive DL traffic over unicast whereas UE-3 to UE-5
receive DL traffic over eMBMS.
Figure 7.1.3.2-1 Media traffic with unicast and eMBMS on DL
#### 7.1.3.3 Service continuity procedures between unicast and multipoint
service
The clause provides flows & procedures for switching from eMBMS to unicast and
vice-versa. In the flows, the need for service continuity is determined and
executed by the UE, which has been agreed as the way forward. The UE also may
for some time receive the same DL data on both Unicast and eMBMS bearers. In
such scenarios, it is upto the application implementation to manage duplicate
detection.
##### 7.1.3.3.1 Unicast to eMBMS
See clause 6.1.2.2.4 for examples flows for switching from unicast to eMBMS.
##### 7.1.3.3.2 eMBMS to Unicast
Clauses 6.1.2.2.2 and 6.1.2.2.3 describe two mechanisms for switching from
eMBMS to unicast - make-before-break and non-make-before-break. It is agreed
to go forward with the make-before-break and non make-before-break approach.
The non make-before-break is primary used to handle scenarios such as MBMS
service is suspended by the MCE due to resource shortage, MBMS node failure,
etc.
In both the procedures, the UE determines that it needs to switch from eMBMS
to unicast. In the make-before-break flows, the UE switches to unicast when it
is still in the eMBMS coverage whereas in the other scenario, the UE switches
to unicast after it moves out of the eMBMS coverage area.
NOTE: The configuration of MBMS radio measurements and possible MBMS signal
threshold for service continuity in the UE by the E-UTRAN is studied in the
RAN WGs. SA WG2 will update its conclusions depending on the RAN study
outcome.
## 7.2 GCSE_LTE common solution approach with respect to Group Management
considerations
Public Safety needs to understand what the common solution approach will
provide with respect to Group Management in Rel-12, as to have future public
safety deployments there needs to be a clear understanding of what is provided
in Rel-12 and the work required in Rel-13 to augment this. The purpose of this
clause is to build a common understanding of what will be delivered in Rel-12
and what is still required.
When considering this it is important to consider the following points:
(a) for a given GCSE_LTE group its members may be arbitrarily located (e.g. in
the same or different sectors, cells, E-UTRANs, PLMNs) for a particular
GCSE_LTE group communication;
(b) a GCSE_LTE group communication can involve one or more media types;
(c) GCSE_LTE Group Management is media-type independent; and
(d) Group Management is an overarching concept for managing GCSE_LTE service
functionality specified in the GCSE_LTE service requirements but is not
explicitly defined in the GCSE_LTE service requirements.
### 7.2.1 Analysis of GCSE related contexts
\- IDLE mode DRX is expected to be based on upper layer configuration in the
UE (e.g,. GCSE application) and existing mechanism in TS 23.401 [5] / TS
36.304 [14].
\- As GCSE has certain delay requirements for unicast delivery, it is
desirable for eNB to be made aware of these at the radio bearer
establishment/modification. This allows the eNB to apply per-UE connected mode
DRX of e.g. 320 ms as described in Solution 2 (clause 6.2) with the intention
of achieving decent PTT delays while also achieving reasonable battery life.
How eNB can be made aware of this requirement and what information is needed
is FFS.
NOTE: It is FFS for RAN to determine if such information can also be used for
optimizing its call admission control.
\- Within EPS, the priority level of a unicast and multicast session is
represented with ARP.
\- The EPS level does not have to be aware of group creation and group
membership control and associated user interaction (adding/removing members),
user notification when group communications start, ability of the user to
accept/reject/ignore (and for the system to require a user to accept) a group
communication.
### 7.2.2 Key considerations
The common approach specified in Rel‑12 GCSE_LTE should be evaluated with
respect to Group Management for GCSE_LTE with the purpose of identifying the
key assumptions being made about how the Group Management is being handled in
Rel‑12. The key considerations are as follows:
1\. Consideration of GCSE_LTE group member types (e.g. UE, application, human
user, machine user).
2\. Consideration of Group Management functionality most appropriately
provided by Multipoint Service (MuSe) at the EPC level and by GCSE_LTE
Application Servers in support of GCSE_LTE-based applications (e.g. PTT,
video, multimedia).
3\. Consideration of how the function of invoking efficient (e.g. unicast or
multicast) GCSE_LTE communication paths used for GCSE_LTE group communication
takes into account that Group Management is media-type independent and a
particular group communication may consist of multiple media types and a very
large number of group members.
4\. Consideration of the administration of GCSE_LTE groups and group members
(e.g. \"GCSE_LTE group handling\"), including their identification (e.g.
GCSE_LTE group creation, deletion, and modification and the manipulation of
GCSE_LTE communication paths based on applications using functionality
provided by the Group Communication System Enablers for LTE).
5\. Consideration of (i) establishing and reporting reachability of GCSE_LTE
group members for a particular GCSE_LTE group communication and (ii)
monitoring the participation status of GCSE_LTE group members.
6\. Consideration of the relationship between Group Management and GCSE_LTE
User Interaction.
7\. Consideration of the function of prioritization and pre-emption and QoS of
GCSE_LTE communication groups and group members for a GCSE_LTE group
communication.
8\. Consideration of the overall architecture of the Group Communication
System Enablers for LTE needed to support Group Management functionality.
9\. Consideration of EPS (E-UTRAN and EPC) and application layer functions and
entities (e.g. Application Server, devices (e.g. UEs), applications, human
users, machine users).
10\. Consideration of what Group Management functions are required to be
provided by the EPS.
11\. Consideration of security and charging as part of architectural solutions
supporting GCSE_LTE.
12\. Consideration of relationships to ProSe Group Management.
13\. Consideration of the term \"Group Management\" with respect to existing
or potential use of the same or similar terms by other groups (e.g. RAN1,
RAN2).
NOTE: The criteria identified in clause 7.2.2 are FFS.
Table 7.2.1-1: Analysis of common solution approach with respect to GCSE_LTE
Group Management key considerations
* * *
Key Consideration EPS Level Application Level 1 Not aware of member types
Implementation, to be based on UE-GCSE AS interaction via GC1 2 FFS GCSE AS
level for group management 3 Start the eMBMS service for broadcast delivery
based on instruction from GCSE AS via GC2. Determines when/where to start the
broadcast delivery. UE uses broadcast or unicast based on availability of
broadcast in its serving area. 4 Administration of GCSE groups and members is
not done at the EPS level Administration of GCSE groups and members is done at
the application level. 5 N/A Service continuity is to be based on UE -- GCSE
AS interaction via GC1. 6 N/A Roaming support, in addition to normal roaming
support for attachment to a visited PLMN, is to be based on UE -- GCSE AS
interaction via GC1. 7 Interworking is based on the EPS\'s ARP parameter
(mapped by BM-SC and PCRF using the priority level assigned from GCSE AS).
Priority level is assigned by GCSE AS. 8 FFS FFS 9 FFS FFS 10 FFS FFS 11 GCSE
specific security is to be determined by SA3, GCSE specific charging is to be
determined by SA5. GCSE specific security is to be determined by SA3, GCSE
specific charging is to be determined by SA5. 12 Administration of ProSe group
management is not done at EPS level To ensure ProSe Group communication is
linked with a GCSE group, the GCSE AS provides the related ProSe configuration
parameters to UE (see TR 23.703 [4] clause 7.3.1.1). 13 FFS FFS
* * *
# 8 Conclusions
Editor\'s note: The clause will capture agreed conclusions from the Key issues
and Architecture Solutions clauses.
## 8.1 General
\- The GCSE_LTE applications will use a mix of Unicast and eMBMS bearers. Any
evolution of eMBMS or unicast bearers in Rel-12 is assumed to be mostly
impacting RAN layers only.
\- For low latency services such as speech, when using eMBMS, the UE can be
expected to receive at least once every 80 ms, and, when using unicast bearers
the UE can be expected to receive at least once every 320 ms. While it is
assumed that consumer devices normally operate with an idle mode DRX of either
1.28 or 2.56 s, it is also assumed that Public Safety users are prepared to
use devices with larger capacity batteries.
\- In Rel‑12 no UE-to-GCSE_LTE application-specific interface will be
standardized by 3GPP (SP-130506).
3GPP still need to decide how TMGIs and associated security credentials are
allocated. As no specification impact is expected, in Rel‑12 some application
developer guideline will be provided to document the kind of information
applications and UE\'s need to exchange to use the unicast and the eMBMS
bearers correctly.
\- GCSE_LTE applications interact with the BMSC to enable for specific
GCSE_LTE groups the establishment of eMBMS bearers for specific distribution
areas, and with specific QoS level for specific IP flows.
The BMSC provides the applications with the eMBMS service information for the
various GCSE_LTE groups using eMBMS. As such, in Rel‑12 it is expected the GC2
interface shall be standardized.
\- Downlink traffic from multiple media flows belonging to the same or
different GCSE Groups may be multiplexed on the same eMBMS bearer.
\- The media distribution in DL for unicast is on SGi (no GC5 required).
\- GC3 shall be the M1 interface.
\- The functionality required to support the MUSE function is assumed to be
split between the BMSC and the MBMS‑GW. Due to GCSE there are no (or only
limited if any) expected change on the MBMS‑GW and on SGmb.
\- GC4 is the Sm interface.
\- It is up to the application layer to deal with packet loss / duplication /
not in sequence delivery of packets (e.g. related with switching between
point-to-point and eMBMS delivery).
\- It is assumed that the GCSE AS is not associated to any specific PLMN from
an ownership standpoint, and it can access PLMN resources via SGi+Rx (When
using unicast bearers) and GC2(when using Multicast bearers).
\- The SGi interface can be offered in LBO mode or home routed mode.
\- The Rx is supported in the HPLMN (whether SGi is in Home routed or LBO
mode).
\- The GC2 is offered only by the serving PLMN in this release of the
specifications.
\- One MBMS session is supported by exactly one BM-SC and one GCSE-AS.
\- The GC2 interfaces will need to be able to connect multiple BM-SCs to one
GCSE-AS.
\- The GC2 interfaces will need to be able to connect multiple GCSE-ASs to one
BM-SC.
\- The PLMN ID of the serving PLMN and the HPLMN ID needs to be provided to
the GCSE AS when serving PLMN ID changes so the GCSE-AS can select the right
Rx and GC2 connections. This happens via a GCSE registration or re-
registration procedure.
\- The GCSE AS needs to be configured with the IP addresses or a FQDN of the
contact points for Rx and GC2. The GC2 contact points need to be configured
per PLMN ID, while the Rx is a single value per user, associated to the HPLMN
ID.
\- If for a PLMN ID there is no GC2 contact point configured, the GCSE AS can
only offer unicast-based group services for the related PLMN.
\- PLMN selection procedures are not affected by GCSE. The list of preferred
PLMNs in the USIM and the forbidden PLMNs by the HPLMN may however be
customized if the GCSE application requires to only access to eMBMS capable
PLMNs with which an agreement to use eMBMS is in place (i.e. PLMN\'s for which
there is a GC2 contact point).
\- The eMBMS service information (i.e, USD) is sent to the UE via a unicast
bearer (on the GC1 interface) or via a multicast (i.e. eMBMS) bearer. GCSE AS
determines which path to deliver the USD over (GC1 or via eMBMS bearer).
Transfer of the USD from the BM-SC to the GCSE AS is done over the GC2
interface.
NOTE: Additional methods of providing eMBMS service information (e.g. via
configuration) are possible.
\- Normative solution to be specified is based on the proposals defined in
sub-clause \"Common Approach\" under sub-clause 7.1 and 7.2, to allow
deployment of GCSE over LTE with \"Group Communications using pre-established
eMBMS bearers\" in section 6.1 and/or \"GCSE AS counting of UEs per group per
cell\" in section 6.2.
## 8.2 Priority and Pre-emption on Group Communication
For key issue#8 \'Priority and Pre-emption on Group Communication\', it is
agreed to adopt elements of the solution 7 in the base line solution.
Specifically, it is agreed:
\- For updating the priority for multicast bearer service, MBMS Session Update
procedure needs to be enhanced. Other alternative, e.g. replacing old eMBMS
bearer with new eMBMS bearer with updated ARP, is dependent on the GCSE AS
decision.
\- For updating priority for unicast bearer service, the GCSE AS selects
individual UE(s) that are using unicast bearers, and updates individual Rx
sessions
\- The GCSE AS sets and updates the priority of the IP flows based on the
application level priorities, events and the specifics of the application.
NOTE: In the eNB the resources reserved for multicast and unicast are separate
and cannot be used interchangeably, with one exception. If the radio subframes
allocated for MBMS services is not fully occupied, the unused radio subframes
can be scheduled for unicast transmission. However for those radio subframes
the eNB always give the priority to the multicast traffic over the unicast
traffic.
\- Support reassignment of Group Communication priority level.
\- UE can join multiple Groups sharing the same EPS bearer for Group
Communication signalling.
\- Group members within a single GCSE group can have different priorities
which are also reflected on the EPS network.
\- The priorities of the MBMS bearers can be changed.
\- MBMS bearer suspension due to pre-emption is treated in the same manner as
an MBMS to unicast switch (non make-before-break) as described in clause
6.1.2.2.3.
\- MBMS bearer service resumption, if and when pre-emption is no longer
necessary, is treated in the same manner as the procedure for switching from
unicast to MBMS (clause 6.1.2.2.4).
###### ### Annex A: QoS and bearer parameters for Group Communications
# A.1 General
The intention of this annex is to capture the status of discussions that lead
to a CR to TS 23.203 to detail the QoS and related bearer parameters (e.g.
connected mode DRX control) needed for GCSE.
# A.2 Overview
The following aspects were considered in the generation of the draft changes:
a) The data rate for Push to Talk speech is known in advance, so the network
can indicate the likely bandwidth requirement to the RAN. This suggests using
a GBR bearer rather than a non-GBR bearer (that is just part of overall the
AMBR).
b) The \'statistics\' of the Push to Talk voice activity are different to that
of normal telephony, e.g. long silent periods between exchanges of talk
spurts, and, more downlink speech than uplink speech.
c) Push to Talk signalling (e.g. floor control and talker ID) is sometimes
multiplexed in with the media. However, a media bearer\'s Packet Error Loss
Rate of 10-2 may be more than expected for Push to Talk signalling. Hence it
is suggested to aim the Push To Talk Signalling to QCI 5 (IMS). When the exact
requirements for Push To Talk signalling are known in Rel‑13, it may be
necessary to (re)consider this.
d) The UE should not be controlling whether it is in RRC IDLE or RRC CONNECTED
state, yet the UE will be expecting similar QoS characteristics in RRC IDLE
and RRC CONNECTED states. In RRC IDLE the lowest DRX setting is 320 ms, and
the UE can demand this from the network. This gives a service latency
expectation adequate for Push To Talk. That latency should not be worsened
when in RRC CONNECTED state. Similarly the battery consumption of the device,
when not transferring media, should not be greatly different in RRC CONNECTED
compared to RRC IDLE. This implies that for the first packet(s) in a talk
burst in RRC CONNECTED state, the PDB can be relaxed, but to not beyond 320
ms.
e) While the high priority of the IMS QCI is needed to make sure that any
needed release of IMS transactions succeeds, the IMS QCI can also be heavily
loaded by much less urgent IMS signalling, e.g. Presence updates, leading to
latencies. Hence it is suggested that the Mission Critical Push to Talk is
given a higher Priority Level than that of QCI 5\. Non-Mission-Critical Push
to Talk traffic should however have a lower priority than QCI 5.
f) GBR bearers are not released at normal RRC CONNECTED to RRC IDLE
transitions.
g) It is assumed that these bearers should not be candidates for SRVCC.
h) In a congested network (e.g. during a major public safety incident) the
speech PDB of 100 ms may cause the end to end delay requirements for Push to
Talk to be exceeded. Hence a lower PDB is proposed. It is also likely that the
PCEF will be closer to the base station than when global roaming is in use and
hence an allowance of 10 ms for the network delays may be more appropriate.
i) It is assumed that these new QCIs can also be used for eMBMS. (Note that TS
23.246 [8] clause 6.3.2 specifies that for EPS only GBR MBMS is specified, and
this is an extra hint that the new QCIs should be GBR ones).
j) For group communications with other media, it is currently assumed that the
existing QCIs 1-9 are adequate.
# A.3 Draft Changes to TS 23.203 v12.3.0
This clause is work in progress and needs to be validated by SA WG2 and other
working groups.
##### **6.1.7 Standardized QoS characteristics** {#standardized-qos-
characteristics .H6}
##### **6.1.7.1 General** {#general-6 .H6}
The service level (i.e., per SDF or per SDF aggregate) QoS parameters are QCI,
ARP, GBR, and MBR.
Each Service Data Flow (SDF) is associated with one and only one QoS Class
Identifier (QCI). For the same IP‑CAN session multiple SDFs with the same QCI
and ARP can be treated as a single traffic aggregate which is referred to as
an SDF aggregate. An SDF is a special case of an SDF aggregate. The QCI is
scalar that is used as a reference to node specific parameters that control
packet forwarding treatment (e.g. scheduling weights, admission thresholds,
queue management thresholds, link layer protocol configuration, etc.) and that
have been pre-configured by the operator owning the node (e.g. eNodeB).
##### **6.1.7.2 Standardized QCI characteristics** {#standardized-qci-
characteristics .H6}
This clause specifies standardized characteristics associated with
standardized QCI values. The characteristics describe the packet forwarding
treatment that an SDF aggregate receives edge-to-edge between the UE and the
PCEF (see figure 6.1.7‑1) in terms of the following performance
characteristics:
1 Resource Type (GBR or Non-GBR);
2 Priority;
3 Packet Delay Budget;
4 Packet Error Loss Rate.
Figure 6.1.7-1: Scope of the Standardized QCI characteristics for
client/server (upper figure) and peer/peer (lower figure) communication
The standardized characteristics are not signalled on any interface. They
should be understood as guidelines for the pre-configuration of node specific
parameters for each QCI. The goal of standardizing a QCI with corresponding
characteristics is to ensure that applications / services mapped to that QCI
receive the same minimum level of QoS in multi-vendor network deployments and
in case of roaming. A standardized QCI and corresponding characteristics is
independent of the UE\'s current access (3GPP or Non-3GPP).
The one-to-one mapping of standardized QCI values to standardized
characteristics is captured in table 6.1.7.
Table 6.1.7: Standardized QCI characteristics
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | QCI | Resource | Priority | Packet | Packet | Example | | | Type | | Delay | Error | Services | | | | | Budget | Loss | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | | | | | | Rate | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1\ | | 2 | 100 ms | 10^-2^ | Conver | | (NOTE 3) | | | | | sational | | | | | | | Voice | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 2\ | GBR | 4 | 150 ms | 10^-3^ | Conver | | (NOTE 3) | | | | | sational | | | | | | | Video | | | | | | | (Live | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | reaming) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 3\ | | 3 | 50 ms | 10^-3^ | Real | | (NOTE 3) | | | | | Time | | | | | | | Gaming | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 4\ | | 5 | 300 ms | 10^-6^ | No | | (NOTE 3) | | | | | n-Conver | | | | | | | sational | | | | | | | Video | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | Buffered | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | reaming) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 65\ | | A | 75 ms | 10^-2^ | Mission | | (NOTE 7, | | [0.7] | | | Critical | | NOTE 8, | | | | | user | | NOTE 9) | | | | | plane | | | | | | | PTT | | | | | | | voice | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | MCPTT) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 66\ | | B | 100 ms | 10^-2^ | Non- | | (NOTE 8) | | [3.5] | | | Mission- | | | | | | | Critical | | | | | | | user | | | | | | | plane | | | | | | | PTT | | | | | | | voice | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 5\ | | 1 | 100 ms | 10^-6^ | IMS | | (NOTE 3) | | | | | Si | | | | | | | gnalling | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 6\ | | 6 | 300 ms | 10^-6^ | Video | | (NOTE 4) | | | | | ( | | | | | | | Buffered | | | | | | | Str | | | | | | | eaming)\ | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | CP-based | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | www, | | | | | | | e-mail, | | | | | | | chat, | | | | | | | ftp, p2p | | | | | | | file | | | | | | | sharing, | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | gressive | | | | | | | video, | | | | | | | etc.) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 7\ | Non-GBR | 7 | 100 ms | 10^-3^ | Voice,\ | | (NOTE 3) | | | | | Video | | | | | | | (Live | | | | | | | Str | | | | | | | eaming)\ | | | | | | | Int | | | | | | | eractive | | | | | | | Gaming | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8\ | | 8 | 300 ms | 10^-6^ | Video | | (NOTE 5) | | | | | ( | | | | | | | Buffered | | | | | | | Str | | | | | | | eaming)\ | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | CP-based | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | www, | | | | | | | e-mail, | | | | | | | chat, | | | | | | | ftp, p2p | | | | | | | file | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 9\ | | 9 | | | sharing, | | (NOTE 6) | | | | | pro | | | | | | | gressive | | | | | | | video, | | | | | | | etc.) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 69 | | C | 60 ms | 10^-6^ | Mission | | | | [0.5] | | | Critical | | (NOTE 9) | | | | | delay | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ensitive | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | gnalling | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | MC-PTT | | | | | | | sig | | | | | | | nalling) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 70 | | D [2.8 | 200 ms | 10^-6^ | Public | | | | or 5.5] | | | Safety | | | | | | | default | | | | | | | bearer | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | A delay | | | | | | | of 20 ms | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | a PCEF | | | | | | | and a | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | station | | | | | | | should | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | btracted | | | | | | | from a | | | | | | | given | | | | | | | PDB to | | | | | | | derive | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | budget | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terface. | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | delay is | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | average | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | the case | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | the PCEF | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | located | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | "close\" | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | station | | | | | | | (roughly | | | | | | | 10 ms) | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | the PCEF | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | located | | | | | | | \"far\" | | | | | | | from the | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | station, | | | | | | | e.g. in | | | | | | | case of | | | | | | | roaming | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | home | | | | | | | routed | | | | | | | traffic | | | | | | | (the | | | | | | | one-way | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | Europe | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | US west | | | | | | | coast is | | | | | | | roughly | | | | | | | 50 ms). | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | average | | | | | | | takes | | | | | | | into | | | | | | | account | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | roaming | | | | | | | is a | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | typical | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | cenario. | | | | | | | It is | | | | | | | expected | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | sub | | | | | | | tracting | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | average | | | | | | | delay of | | | | | | | 20 ms | | | | | | | from a | | | | | | | given | | | | | | | PDB will | | | | | | | lead to | | | | | | | desired | | | | | | | en | | | | | | | d-to-end | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | formance | | | | | | | in most | | | | | | | typical | | | | | | | cases. | | | | | | | Also, | | | | | | | note | | | | | | | that the | | | | | | | PDB | | | | | | | defines | | | | | | | an upper | | | | | | | bound. | | | | | | | Actual | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | delays - | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | pa | | | | | | | rticular | | | | | | | for GBR | | | | | | | traffic | | | | | | | - should | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | ypically | | | | | | | be lower | | | | | | | than the | | | | | | | PDB | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | pecified | | | | | | | for a | | | | | | | QCI as | | | | | | | long as | | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | | has | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | fficient | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | quality. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | The rate | | | | | | | of non | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | ngestion | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | losses | | | | | | | that may | | | | | | | occur | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | a radio | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | station | | | | | | | and a | | | | | | | PCEF | | | | | | | should | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | regarded | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | neg | | | | | | | ligible. | | | | | | | A PELR | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | pecified | | | | | | | for a | | | | | | | stan | | | | | | | dardized | | | | | | | QCI | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | herefore | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | mpletely | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | nterface | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | a UE and | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | station. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | This QCI | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | ypically | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | sociated | | | | | | | with an | | | | | | | operator | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | ntrolled | | | | | | | service, | | | | | | | i.e., a | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | the SDF | | | | | | | aggr | | | | | | | egate\'s | | | | | | | uplink / | | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | filters | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | known at | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | point in | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | when the | | | | | | | SDF | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ggregate | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | aut | | | | | | | horized. | | | | | | | In case | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | E-UTRAN | | | | | | | this is | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | point in | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | when a | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | sponding | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | edicated | | | | | | | EPS | | | | | | | bearer | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | est | | | | | | | ablished | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | odified. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | | If the | | | | | | | network | | | | | | | supports | | | | | | | Mu | | | | | | | ltimedia | | | | | | | Priority | | | | | | | Services | | | | | | | (MPS) | | | | | | | then | | | | | | | this QCI | | | | | | | could be | | | | | | | used for | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | priori | | | | | | | tization | | | | | | | of non | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | eal-time | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | (i.e. | | | | | | | most | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | ypically | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | CP-based | | | | | | | servic | | | | | | | es/appli | | | | | | | cations) | | | | | | | of MPS | | | | | | | subs | | | | | | | cribers. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: | | | | | | | This QCI | | | | | | | could be | | | | | | | used for | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | edicated | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | "premium | | | | | | | bearer\" | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | sociated | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | premium | | | | | | | content) | | | | | | | for any | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | bscriber | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | bscriber | | | | | | | group. | | | | | | | Also in | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | case, | | | | | | | the SDF | | | | | | | aggr | | | | | | | egate\'s | | | | | | | uplink / | | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | filters | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | known at | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | point in | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | when the | | | | | | | SDF | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ggregate | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | aut | | | | | | | horized. | | | | | | | Altern | | | | | | | atively, | | | | | | | this QCI | | | | | | | could be | | | | | | | used for | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | default | | | | | | | bearer | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | UE/PDN | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | "premium | | | | | | | subscr | | | | | | | ibers\". | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: | | | | | | | This QCI | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | ypically | | | | | | | used for | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | default | | | | | | | bearer | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | UE/PDN | | | | | | | for non | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | ivileged | | | | | | | subs | | | | | | | cribers. | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | AMBR can | | | | | | | be used | | | | | | | as a | | | | | | | \"tool\" | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | provide | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | bscriber | | | | | | | differe | | | | | | | ntiation | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | bscriber | | | | | | | groups | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | onnected | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | same PDN | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | same QCI | | | | | | | on the | | | | | | | default | | | | | | | bearer. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 7: | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | Mission | | | | | | | Critical | | | | | | | Push to | | | | | | | Talk, it | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | assumed | | | | | | | that the | | | | | | | PCEF is | | | | | | | located | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | "close\" | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | station | | | | | | | (roughly | | | | | | | 10 ms) | | | | | | | and is | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | normally | | | | | | | used in | | | | | | | a long | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | istance, | | | | | | | home | | | | | | | routed | | | | | | | roaming | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | tuation. | | | | | | | Hence | | | | | | | delay of | | | | | | | 10 ms | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | a PCEF | | | | | | | and a | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | station | | | | | | | should | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | btracted | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | this PDB | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | derive | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | budget | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terface. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 8: | | | | | | | In order | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | permit | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | asonable | | | | | | | battery | | | | | | | saving | | | | | | | (DRX) | | | | | | | te | | | | | | | chniques | | | | | | | in both | | | | | | | RRC Idle | | | | | | | and RRC | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | onnected | | | | | | | mode, | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | acket(s) | | | | | | | in a | | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | | talk or | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | gnalling | | | | | | | burst, | | | | | | | the PDB | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | relaxed | | | | | | | but not | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | greater | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | 320 ms. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 9: | | | | | | | It is | | | | | | | expected | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | QCI-65 | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | QCI-69 | | | | | | | are used | | | | | | | together | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | provide | | | | | | | Mission | | | | | | | Critical | | | | | | | Push to | | | | | | | Talk | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | QCI-5 is | | | | | | | not used | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | gnalling | | | | | | | bearer | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | utilizes | | | | | | | QCI-65 | | | | | | | as user | | | | | | | plane | | | | | | | bearer). | | | | | | | It is | | | | | | | expected | | | | | | | that the | | | | | | | amount | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | traffic | | | | | | | will be | | | | | | | similar | | | | | | | or less | | | | | | | compared | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | IMS | | | | | | | sig | | | | | | | nalling. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
The Resource Type determines if dedicated network resources related to a
service or bearer level Guaranteed Bit Rate (GBR) value are permanently
allocated (e.g. by an admission control function in a radio base station). GBR
SDF aggregates are therefore typically authorized \"on demand\" which requires
dynamic policy and charging control. A Non GBR SDF aggregate may be pre-
authorized through static policy and charging control.
The Packet Delay Budget (PDB) defines an upper bound for the time that a
packet may be delayed between the UE and the PCEF. For a certain QCI the value
of the PDB is the same in uplink and downlink. The purpose of the PDB is to
support the configuration of scheduling and link layer functions (e.g. the
setting of scheduling priority weights and HARQ target operating points). The
PDB shall be interpreted as a maximum delay with a confidence level of 98
percent.
NOTE 1: The PDB denotes a \"soft upper bound\" in the sense that an
\"expired\" packet, e.g. a link layer SDU that has exceeded the PDB, does not
need to be discarded (e.g. by RLC in E-UTRAN). The discarding (dropping) of
packets is expected to be controlled by a queue management function, e.g.
based on pre-configured dropping thresholds.
The support for SRVCC requires QCI=1 only be used for IMS speech sessions in
accordance to TS 23.216 [28].
NOTE 2: Triggering SRVCC will cause service interruption and/or inconsistent
service experience when using QCI=1 for non-IMS services.
Services using a Non-GBR QCI should be prepared to experience congestion
related packet drops, and 98 percent of the packets that have not been dropped
due to congestion should not experience a delay exceeding the QCI\'s PDB. This
may for example occur during traffic load peaks or when the UE becomes
coverage limited. See Annex J for details. Packets that have not been dropped
due to congestion may still be subject to non congestion related packet losses
(see PELR below).
Services using a GBR QCI and sending at a rate smaller than or equal to GBR
can in general assume that congestion related packet drops will not occur, and
98 percent of the packets shall not experience a delay exceeding the QCI\'s
PDB. Exceptions (e.g. transient link outages) can always occur in a radio
access system which may then lead to congestion related packet drops even for
services using a GBR QCI and sending at a rate smaller than or equal to GBR.
Packets that have not been dropped due to congestion may still be subject to
non congestion related packet losses (see PELR below).
Every QCI (GBR and Non-GBR) is associated with a Priority level. The lowest
Priority level corresponds to the highest Priority. The Priority levels shall
be used to differentiate between SDF aggregates of the same UE, and it shall
also be used to differentiate between SDF aggregates from different UEs. Via
its QCI an SDF aggregate is associated with a Priority level and a PDB.
Scheduling between different SDF aggregates shall primarily be based on the
PDB. If the target set by the PDB can no longer be met for one or more SDF
aggregate(s) across all UEs that have sufficient radio channel quality then
Priority shall be used as follows: in this case a scheduler shall meet the PDB
of an SDF aggregate on Priority level N in preference to meeting the PDB of
SDF aggregates on next Priority level immediately greater than N, until the
priority N SDF aggregate\'s GBR (in case of a GBR SDF aggregate) has been
satisfied. Other aspects related to the treatment of traffic exceeding an SDF
aggregate\'s GBR are out of scope of this specification.
NOTE 3: The definition (or quantification) of \"sufficient radio channel
quality\" is out of the scope of 3GPP specifications.
NOTE 4: In case of E-UTRAN a QCI\'s Priority level may be used as the basis
for assigning the uplink priority per Radio Bearer (see TS 36.300 [19] for
details).
The Packet Error Loss Rate (PELR) defines an upper bound for the rate of SDUs
(e.g. IP packets) that have been processed by the sender of a link layer
protocol (e.g. RLC in E‑UTRAN) but that are not successfully delivered by the
corresponding receiver to the upper layer (e.g. PDCP in E‑UTRAN). Thus, the
PELR defines an upper bound for a rate of non congestion related packet
losses. The purpose of the PELR is to allow for appropriate link layer
protocol configurations (e.g. RLC and HARQ in E‑UTRAN). For a certain QCI the
value of the PELR is the same in uplink and downlink.
NOTE 5: The characteristics PDB and PELR are specified only based on
application / service level requirements, i.e., those characteristics should
be regarded as being access agnostic, independent from the roaming scenario
(roaming or non-roaming), and independent from operator policies.
##### **6.1.7.3 Allocation and Retention Priority characteristics**
{#allocation-and-retention-priority-characteristics .H6}
The QoS parameter ARP contains information about the priority level, the pre-
emption capability and the pre-emption vulnerability. The priority level
defines the relative importance of a resource request. This allows deciding
whether a bearer establishment or modification request can be accepted or
needs to be rejected in case of resource limitations (typically used for
admission control of GBR traffic). It can also be used to decide which
existing bearers to pre-empt during resource limitations.
The range of the ARP priority level is 1 to 15 with 1 as the highest level of
priority. The pre-emption capability information defines whether a service
data flow can get resources that were already assigned to another service data
flow with a lower priority level. The pre-emption vulnerability information
defines whether a service data flow can lose the resources assigned to it in
order to admit a service data flow with higher priority level. The pre-emption
capability and the pre-emption vulnerability can be either set to \'yes\' or
\'no\'.
The ARP priority levels 1-8 should only be assigned to resources for services
that are authorized to receive prioritized treatment within an operator domain
(i.e. that are authorized by the serving network). The ARP priority levels
9-15 may be assigned to resources that are authorized by the home network and
thus applicable when a UE is roaming.
NOTE: This ensures that future releases may use ARP priority level 1-8 to
indicate e.g. emergency and other priority services within an operator domain
in a backward compatible manner. This does not prevent the use of ARP priority
level 1-8 in roaming situation in case appropriate roaming agreements exist
that ensure a compatible use of these priority levels.
#