# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The scope of this technical report is to capture the results of a study that
investigates if enhancements to the existing policy control architecture are
needed in the area of usage monitoring control. The goals of the study are to
derive possible requirements and architecture enhancements for:
1\. Monitoring of service (s) / application (s) in more than one usage
monitoring group;
2\. Disabling a service (s) / application (s) from the existing usage
monitoring group of services/group of applications;
3\. Excluding the usage of a particular service (s) / application (s) from the
accumulated usage for the IP-CAN session/TDF session;
4\. Usage control for a subscriber group, e.g. the members of a family or a
company subscriber, or a group of devices belonging to subscribers that share
the same usage allowance threshold.
In addition, study the different proposed solutions for effective time based
usage monitoring and how associated start and end of usage is defined.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy Control and Charging architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.278: \" Service requirements for the Evolved Packet System
(EPS) \".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.299: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Diameter charging applications\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Usage Monitoring Group** : A Usage Monitoring Group is a set of service data
flow(s)/application(s) of a UE that share a common traffic usage allowance and
need to be monitored together for usage monitoring control purposes.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Key Issue 1: Service/Application Monitored in more than one monitoring
group
Editor\'s Note: This clause will describe the use cases, requirements, and
proposed solutions for monitoring of one service/application in more than one
monitoring group.
## 4.1 Description
## 4.2 Use Cases
### 4.2.1 Descriptions
This use case describes a scenario where one service is monitored in more than
one monitoring group.
### 4.2.2 Pre-conditions
Alice is a subscriber of mobile network X and she has the following
subscription:
(A) 50M allowance usage per month for the streaming and P2P downloading, in
which,
(B) the P2P downloading should not exceed 10M per month.
In this profile, the P2P downloading is included into 2 usage monitoring
groups: group (A) according to subscription profile (A) and group (B)
according to subscription profile (B).
### 4.2.3 Service Flows
If Alice attaches to the mobile network X and accesses only streaming service,
the subscription profile (A) will apply: the network will be able to monitor
the traffic usage and detect if the 50M allowance for streaming and P2P
downloading is used up.
If Alice attaches to the mobile network X, and accesses both streaming
services and P2P downloading, both subscription profile (A) and (B) will
apply. The network will be able to monitor the traffic usage and detect if
either the allowance for P2P downloading defined in profile (B) or the
allowance for streaming and P2P downloading defined in profile (A) is used up.
### 4.2.4 Post-conditions
None.
### 4.2.5 Requirements
The 3GPP system shall be able to monitor the traffic usage of a
service/application in more than one usage monitoring group.
## 4.3 Alternative Solutions
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe alternative solution to the key
issue.
### 4.3.1 Alternative Solution 1: Multiple monitoring key within a PCC/ADC
Rule
In this alternative solution, a service /application is monitored with more
than one monitoring key at the PCEF/TDF.
For the purpose to monitor the usage for a service/application with several
monitoring keys, the PCRF includes a list of monitoring key in a PCC/ADC rule
when providing the PCC/ADC rule to PCEF/TDF. The usage for each
service/application is accumulated in parallel for every monitoring key at the
PCEF/TDF
Such a solution is applicable to the PCC Rules and to the ADC Rules in case of
TDF/PCEF enhanced with ADC.
### 4.3.2 Alternative Solution 2: One monitoring key within a PCC/ADC Rule
#### 4.3.2.1 General Description
In this alternative solution, the knowledge about what services/applications
belong to a monitoring group remains in the PCRF.
#### 4.3.2.2 A service/application belongs to more than one monitoring group
The PCRF retrieves the total group allowance for the monitoring group and the
set of services belonging to it from the SPR.
Instead of assigning a common monitoring key for all services of the
monitoring group, the PCRF generates an individual Monitoring Key for every
service that belongs to more than one monitoring group. Then PCRF calculates a
usage threshold for each of these Monitoring Keys taking into account the
minimum of the individual service allowance and the group allowance(s) the
service belongs to.
The PCRF provides both the Monitoring Key and the usage threshold with the PCC
Rule/ADC Rule to the PCEF/TDF.
When the PCRF receives a usage report for a Monitoring Key from the requested
node (PCEF or TDF), the PCRF shall deduct the value from the corresponding
group allowances and from the individual allowance if needed.
As long as all group usage allowances are not reached, the PCRF calculates a
new usage threshold for the Monitoring Key based on the corresponding group
allowances the service belongs to.
If a group usage allowance is reached the PCRF may request a usage report from
the PCEF or TDF to retrieve the accumulated usage since the time of the last
usage report. The group usage allowance is updated accordingly and the
remaining usage may be used by PCRF to assign a new usage threshold for each
Monitoring Key.
## 4.4 Evaluation
Editor\'s Note: This clause will evaluate the alternative solutions.
## 4.5 Conclusion
Editor\'s Note: This clause will provide conclusions with respects to
preferred solution and what further specification work is required.
# 5 Key Issue 2: Disabling Service/Application Usage Monitoring
Editor\'s Note: This clause will describe the use cases, requirements, and
proposed solutions for how a service data flow/application can be disabled
from the existing usage monitoring group of services/group of applications.
## 5.1 Description
## 5.2 Use Cases
### 5.2.1 Descriptions
This use case describes a scenario where the usage monitoring for a
service/application will be disabled from an existing usage monitoring group.
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
Alice is a subscriber to operator X, and she has subscribed to a package:
\- 50 M allowance per month for the traffic of streaming and FTP downloading.
According to her subscription, Alice can request for usage expansion on
demand.
There are also online promotions for certain streaming services. During the
promotion time, the traffic of these streaming services (e.g. movies) will be
paid by sponsors.
### 5.2.3 Service Flows
Alice is watching an interesting movie and she realized that she has a
subscription of 50M allowance per month for the traffic of streaming and FTP
downloading, which is not enough for the movie watching. The size of the high-
definition version of the movie is about 2G. Alice decides to extend her
subscription of streaming to 2G and keep the 50M allowance per month for FTP
downloading only, because she wants to watch this high-definition movie. She
calls the customer service to command such subscription change. As a result,
Alice\'s subscription will have 50M allowance for FTP downloading, and 2G
allowances for streaming. During the subscription change, Alice does not want
to stop watching the movie. After the 2G allowances for streaming is used up,
the streaming will share with the FTP downloading the rest of the 50M
allowance.
Another use case is the periodic promotion of a certain service from service
provider or operator. For example, an online movie provider offers 24 hour
online promotion of certain movies. During the promotion time, watching these
movies from the online movie provider will be free both for content and for
the bandwidth (e.g. the movie is sponsored by the online movie provider). The
online movie provider informs the operator of such promotion and its time
period, and the operator disables monitoring the traffic usage of the service
data flow of watching these movies from the usage monitoring group. After the
promotion time is finished, the operator will restore monitoring the traffic
usage of these services within their original usage monitoring group.
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
An application/service is removed from the existing usage monitoring group
without impact the use of the application/service.
### 5.2.5 Requirements
The 3GPP System shall be able to disable the monitoring of the traffic usage
of a specific service/application from a usage monitoring group.
The 3GPP System shall be able to re-activate the monitoring of the traffic
usage of a specific service/application within the usage monitoring group.
## 5.3 Alternative Solutions
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe alternative solution to the key
issue.
### 5.3.1 Alternative Solution 1: Indication based Activation/Deactivation
If usage monitoring for a service data flow/application needs to be disabled
from a usage monitoring group, the PCRF provides an instruction to the PCEF or
to the TDF containing the monitoring key of the usage monitoring group and the
information to indicate the specific service data flow/application for which
usage monitoring needs to be stopped. Based on PCRF\'s instruction, the PCEF
or TDF removes the monitoring key from the existing PCC or ADC rule, which
shall deactivate the usage monitoring for this specific service data
flow/application.
If the service data flow/application which has been disabled from the usage
monitoring group needs to be re-enabled, the PCRF provides an instruction to
the PCEF/TDF containing the monitoring key of the usage monitoring group and
the information to indicate the specific service data flow/application for
which usage monitoring needs to be re-activated. Based on PCRF\'s instruction,
the PCEF or TDF re-instates the monitoring key for the existing PCC or ADC
rule, which will re-activate the usage monitoring for this specific service
data flow/application.
NOTE: In the case that more than one service data flow/application need to be
deactivated/re-activated from a usage monitoring group, the PCRF could provide
information to indicate the usage monitoring group for all the service data
flows/applications that need to be deactivated/re-activated in the same
message.
### 5.3.2 Alternative Solution 2: PCC/ADC Rules Replacement
If usage monitoring to a service data flow/application needs to be disabled
from a usage monitoring group, the PCRF generates a new PCC/ADC rule. The new
PCC/ADC rule has the same information as the old PCC/ADC rule which is used to
control the service data flow/application, but without the monitoring key.
The PCRF provides new PCC/ADC rules to the PCEF/TDF and removes the old
PCC/ADC rules. Since the new PCC/ADC rule does not contain the monitoring key,
usage monitoring for service data flow/application will be disabled from the
usage monitoring group.
If the service data flow/application which has been disabled from the usage
monitoring group needs to be re-enabled, the PCRF shall provide a new PCC/ADC
rules with the Monitoring key and remove the old PCC/ADC rule, the operation
of the PCEF/TDF is similar as above.
NOTE: It is assumed that the activation of the new PCC/ADC rules takes place
at the same time as the removal of the old PCC/ADC rules. It has to be ensured
that there are no other actions triggered (e.g. with respect to charging and
bearer management) beside the ones related to the disabling of usage
monitoring.
### 5.3.3 Alternative Solution 3: Monitoring Key Modification
If usage monitoring for a service data flow/application (belonging to a usage
monitoring group) needs to be disabled, the PCRF can modify the monitoring key
of the corresponding PCC/ADC rule based on existing functionality. Following
the PCRF instruction, the PCEF or TDF updates the monitoring key in the
modified PCC/ADC rule.
There are three possibilities for modifying a monitoring key to achieve the
deactivation of the usage monitoring for this specific service data
flow/application:
a) The operator can select any one monitoring key which is not in use for any
other usage monitoring. The PCEF/TDF would provide a separate usage monitoring
for this monitoring key according to the existing functionality. The PCRF
would therefore still receive usage reports but could ignore them.
> NOTE: The operator should configure the usage threshold to an enough high
> value so that frequent usage reports can be avoided.
b) The operator can configure a specific monitoring key which is to be
interpreted by the PCEF/TDF as instruction to not perform usage monitoring for
a PCC/ADC rule.
c) 3GPP can define a specific value for the monitoring key which instructs the
PCEF/TDF to not perform usage monitoring for a PCC/ADC rule.
If the usage monitoring for a service data flow/application (for which
monitoring has been disabled before) needs to be re-activated, the PCRF
modifies the monitoring key of the corresponding PCC/ADC rule back to its
original value. Based on PCRF\'s instruction, the PCEF or TDF updates the
monitoring key for the modified PCC/ADC rule and continues to perform usage
monitoring for this specific service data flow/application.
## 5.4 Evaluation
Editor\'s Note: This clause will evaluate the alternative solutions.
## 5.5 Conclusion
Alternative 2 and alternative 3 (option (a)) are based on existing
specifications and can be used to disable usage monitoring for a PCC/ADC rule.
The detailed explanation on how to use/configure existing functionality for
Alternative 2 and Alternative 3 (option (a)) will be documented in a new
informative Annex in TS 23.203[2].
# 6 Key Issue 3: Exclude Usage of a Service/Application from IP-CAN
session/TDF session Usage
Editor\'s Note: This clause will describe the use cases, requirements, and
proposed solutions for how to exclude the usage of a particular service data
flow/application from the accumulated usage for the IP-CAN session/TDF
session.
## 6.1 Description
## 6.2 Use Cases
### 6.2.1 Descriptions
This use case describes a scenario in which the usage of a particular service
data flow/application is excluded from the accumulated usage for a defined
network.
### 6.2.2 Pre-conditions
Alice is a subscriber of Mobile Network X and she has following subscriptions:
1) Total allowance usage A: 50M allowance usage per month for all the traffic
toward a defined IP network, in which:
2) Total allowance usage B: 10M allowance usage per month for the streaming
service and this part of allowance usage is not accumulated into the allowance
usage A.
Mobile network X has a business agreement with sponsor Y, who will pay for the
traffic of movies delivered from sponsor Y. Mobile network X also delivers
featured services, which is paid by a fixed feature fee, related data traffic
will be free for users.
### 6.2.3 Service Flows
Alice attaches to the mobile network X and establishes a data connection
toward a defined IP network. Then Alice begins the web browsing and music
downloading, at the same time, Alice starts to watch a movie. According to her
subscription, the maximum usage of movie (and other streaming services) is 10M
per month, and the maximum usage of the other services (i.e. non-streaming) is
50M per month. The movie will be monitored separately in the streaming service
usage monitoring group, and the usage of the movie will not be accumulated
into the traffic toward the defined IP network.
Alice decides to watch a movie provided by a sponsor Y. Alice purchases the
movie from sponsor Y, the traffic amount required for downloading the movie
will be paid by the sponsor Y. According to mobile network X\'s policy, after
notification by the sponsor Y, the traffic flow which is considered as
sponsored by Y for downloading the movie shall be monitored separately until
the sponsored traffic amount consumed and shall not be accumulated into either
the traffic usage toward the defined IP network or the traffic usage of
streaming service which are not sponsored.
At the same time, Alice uses some special services offered by operator of
network X. One example is Alice logs in the network hard disk afforded by
operator of network X, clicks and watches a movie saved at the network hard
disk. Related data traffic will be free for the bandwidth and charged as fixed
feature fee. Such traffic data of self-operated services shall be monitored
separately and shall not accumulated into either the traffic usage toward the
defined IP network or the traffic usage of streaming service.
### 6.2.4 Post-conditions
Usages for streaming, sponsored service, and featured service are accumulated
separately, and are excluded from the usage for the defined IP network.
### 6.2.5 Requirements
The 3GPP system shall be able to monitor the rest of the traffic usage toward
a defined IP network which excludes the traffic usage of certain
services/applications.
## 6.3 Alternative Solutions
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe alternative solution to the key
issue.
### 6.3.1 Alternative Solution 1: PCEF/TDF based counting with usage
monitoring interface enhancements
If usage monitoring of the service data flow (s) / application (s) need to be
excluded from the total reported volume of IP-CAN / TDF session, then the PCRF
shall indicate the PCC / ADC Rule (s) for which the corresponding sdf (s) /
application (s) traffic volume is not to be counted toward overall IP-CAN /
TDF session traffic. Based on PCRF\'s instruction, the total reported volume
for IP-CAN / TDF session shall not include the accumulated volume traffic for
sdf (s) / application (s) defined by the corresponding PCC / ADC Rule.
NOTE: In the case there are more than one service data flows / application to
be excluded from the overall IP-CAN / TDF session report e.g. sharing the same
Monitoring key, the PCRF will provide all corresponding PCC / ADC Rules or
Monitoring key.
### 6.3.2 Alternative Solution 2: Using a new ADC/predefined PCC Rule by
applying existing standardized methods
If usage monitoring of the service data flows / application need to be
excluded from the total reported volume of IP-CAN/TDF session,
1\. In case of required measurements on the application level, an ADC Rule can
be created with the Application Identifier defining a new application as
session\'s traffic excluding specific application (s), which should not be
counted toward overall session\'s traffic. In such a case, a volume measured
for such an ADC Rule shall be IP-CAN / TDF session\'s volume excluding
accumulated usage of the application (s).
2\. In case of required measurements on the sdf level, a predefined PCC Rule
can be used to match a session\'s traffic excluding specific sdf (s), which
should not be counted toward overall session\'s traffic. In such a case, a
volume measured for such a predefined PCC Rule shall be IP-CAN / TDF
session\'s volume excluding accumulated usage of the sdf (s).
### 6.3.3 Alternative Solution 3: PCRF based counting
In this solution, the PCRF derives the required usage consumption of the IP-
CAN session / TDF session level by deducting the usage of the sdf (s)
/application (s) from the total consumed usage of the IP-CAN session / TDF
session received from the PCEF / TDF. There are two ways for the PCRF to get
the usage value of the sdf (s) /application (s) and the total consumed usage
value of the IP-CAN session / TDF session:
1) When the PCRF receives usage report of the IP-CAN session / TDF session
level in case of reached volume threshold, if usage monitoring to the sdf (s)
/application (s) need to be excluded, then the PCRF requests the usage report
from the PCEF / TDF for the corresponding sdf (s) / application (s) monitoring
key.
2) The PCEF / TDF are mandated to report the usage consumption of all
Monitoring Keys when the volume threshold of IP-CAN session / TDF session
level is reached. The PCRF can determine which usage of the specific sdf (s)
/application (s) needs to be excluded from the total consumed usage of the IP-
CAN session / TDF session.
NOTE: Second option (2) can be further optimized by requesting PCEF / TDF to
report only the usage(s) for the specific Monitoring key (s) its usage must to
be excluded from the total consumed usage of the IP-CAN session / TDF session.
### 6.3.4 Alternative Solution 4: PCEF/TDF based counting by re-using key
issue 1 solution \"Multiple Monitoring key within a PCC/ADC Rule\"
The solution shall re-use the principles defined in key issue 1 solution
\"Multiple keys for a single rule\" by instructing the PCEF / TDF to not
include a PCC / ADC rule in the usage monitoring of the IP-CAN / TDF session
traffic by assigning a (session) monitoring key to all rules in addition to
their specific monitoring key except for those rule which are to be excluded
from the IP-CAN / TDF session overall accumulation.
NOTE: In case of ADC Rules, this alternative solution is achieved by
additionally assigning ADC Rule with Application Id for the traffic not
counted toward any other Application Id for the specified session in order to
correctly count session\'s traffic.
## 6.4 Evaluation
Editor\'s Note: This clause will evaluate the alternative solutions.
## 6.5 Conclusion
Editor\'s Note: This clause will provide conclusions with respects to
preferred solution and what further specification work is required.
# 7 Key Issue 4: Usage Monitoring Optimization
## 7.1 Description
## 7.2 Use Cases
### 7.2.1 Description
This use case describes a scenario which needs usage monitoring optimization.
### **7.2.** 2 Pre-conditions
Operators may have different usage allowances for the same service data
flow/application or PDN connection in different conditions, e.g. leisure and
busy hour, roaming and non-roaming, billing cycle change. For example, mobile
operator X has a package A which has an allowance of 30M per month for
streaming services during leisure hours and 5M per month for streaming
services during busy hours. Majority of the subscribers of mobile operator X
are subscribed to package A. At the time of switching between leisure and busy
hours, the traffic usage of the previous time space will be reported
simultaneously for many sessions, which will cause substantial signalling load
to the system. This is not desired by the operators. Hence, optimized
solutions are needed for such scenario.
### 7.2.3 Service Flows
At the time of switching from leisure hours to busy hours, the report of the
leisure hour usage of package A subscribers will not be reported immediately,
instead, the leisure hour usage of package A subscribers will be reported
later when a threshold is reached or when the IP-CAN session is terminated.
Similarly, at the time of switching from busy hours to leisure hours, the
report of the busy hour usage of package A subscribers will not be reported
immediately, instead, the busy hour usage of package A subscribers will be
reported later when a threshold is reached or when the IP-CAN session is
terminated.
### 7.2.4 Post-conditions
Simultaneous report of usage of multiple subscribers will be avoided, which
will reduce signalling load to the network as well.
### 7.2.5 Requirements
The 3GPP system shall optimize the usage monitoring signalling.
## 7.3 Alternative Solutions
The solution for this use case was introduced under TEI11 Usage Monitoring
Congestion handling feature.
### 7.3.1 Alternative Solution ...
## 7.4 Evaluation
## 7.5 Conclusion
This key issue was handled and resolved under TEI11.
# 8 Key Issue 5: Usage Monitoring for Subscriber Group
Editor\'s Note: This clause will describe the use cases, requirements, and
proposed solutions for how to apply usage control for a subscriber group.
## 8.1 Description
## 8.2 Use Cases
### 8.2.1 Descriptions
The use case describes a scenario of usage control for a subscriber group.
### 8.2.2 Pre-conditions
Johnson family and Alice family has subscribed to mobile operator X.
ACME vending machine company has 5000 vending machines, and operator X
provides data connectivity for vending machines from ACME vending machine
company.
### 8.2.3 Service Flows
**Family based usage monitoring**
The Johnson family subscribe to a mobile data offering from their mobile
operator that is specifically targeted at families. The data offering includes
a combined allowance for 100M per month. Either of the family members can make
use of this allowance. When in a particular month the combined usage allowance
is exceeded, e.g. as per operator policy the maximum downlink data rate may be
reduced to 384 kbits/s for each of the family members.
The Johnson family subscribe to a mobile data allowance offering from their
mobile operator that is specifically targeted at families. This data allowance
refers to 15 hours for video streams per month. Either of the family members
can make use of this allowance when he/she initiate the corresponding video
stream service and the maximum downlink data rate for each video stream can be
given at 2Mbits/s. If there are 2 or more than 2 members using this allowance
simultaneously, the consumption of time will be accumulated in parallel for
every member. The total consumption of time is the sum of every member\'s
consumptions of time. When the volume of 15 hours is run out of, mobile
network operator will block streaming video service from Johnson family or
reduce the maximum downlink data rate of this video streams to 384 kbits/s for
each of the family members.
**Usage Monitoring for Machine Type Communications**
The ACME vending machine company has 5000 vending machines connected to a MTC
Server. These vending machines generally only send a limited amounts of data
to inform the MTC Server of their status. However, occasionally more data is
exchanged, e.g. when a service engineer runs a remote diagnostics software
program. The ACME vending machine company therefore has a contract with the
operator that limits the 5000 vending machines to a combined data volume of
500M per month. The individual vending machines are not overly restricted to
only a specific average monthly data volume. On the other hand, the operator
can be ensured that the combined group of ACME vending machines will only
require a limited amount of network capacity.
**Usage monitoring of a subscriber in multiple subscriber groups
simultaneously**
Alice, her brother Mike, her father and mother are subscribers of mobile
network X and they have following subscriptions:
1) Total allowance usage A of subscriber group A: Alice, her brother Mike, her
father and mother are permitted for the total usage allowance of 50M per
month, in which:
2) Total allowance usage B of subscriber group B: Alice and Mike are permitted
for the total usage allowance of 30M per month.
3) There is no specific usage allowance for any person.
In this profile, Alice, her brother Mike, her father and mother constitute
subscriber group A, and all the members of this subscriber group share the
total usage allowance of 50M per month. Furthermore, this subscriber group
includes a subscriber group B which only contains Alice and Mike. Subscriber
group B is permitted for the total usage allowance of 30M per month. This is
useful for parents in a family to limit the Internet usage of their children.
The maximum traffic usage for children is limited to 30M per month. The
parents can use the total traffic of 50M per month if the children do not use
any. When only Alice or Mike or Alice and Mike is/are using the network, the
network should monitor the traffic usage and detect whether it reaches the
usage allowance of subscriber group B. When either Alice\'s father or mother
is also using the network, the network should monitor the traffic usage of all
the online family members simultaneously. In that case, on one hand, the
network should monitor Alice\'s and Mike\'s traffic usage and detect whether
their total traffic reaches the usage allowance of the subscriber group B. On
the other hand, the network should monitor all persons\' traffic usage and
detect whether the total traffic reaches the total usage allowance of
subscriber group A as well.
**Usage monitoring of a subscriber in multiple subscriber groups by priority**
Alice, her sister and her parents are subscribers of mobile network X and they
have following subscriptions:
1) Alice and her parents constitute subscriber group A, which is permitted for
the total usage allowance of 50M per month.
2) Alice and her friend Lucy constitute another subscriber group - subscriber
group B, which is permitted for usage allowance of 30M per month
3) There is no specific usage allowance for any person.
4) The allowance usage for Alice is accumulated into subscriber group A
firstly. And this allowance usage is not accumulated into subscriber group B.
when the allowance usage of subscriber group A runs out, the allowance usage
for Alice will be accumulated into subscriber group B.
In this profile, Alice and her parents share the total usage allowance of 50M
per month. In addition, Alice and Lucy share the total usage allowance of 30M
per month. When Alice and her parents are using the network, the network
should monitor the traffic and detect whether the volume reaches the usage
allowance of subscriber group A (50M). Here, this allowance usage for Alice is
not accumulated into subscriber group B.
When Alice and Lucy are using the network and the allowance of subscriber
group A hasn\'t run out, the volume used by Alice should not be accumulated
into subscriber group B. The network should monitor the traffic used by Alice
separately and detect whether the volume reaches the allowance of subscriber
group A. At the same time, the network should monitor the traffic used by Lucy
and detect whether the volume reaches the allowance of subscriber group B.
In this case, if the allowance of subscriber group A has run out, the network
should monitor the traffic used by Alice and Lucy together and detect whether
the volume used reaches the allowance of subscriber group B.
### 8.2.4 Post-conditions
None.
### 8.2.5 Requirements
The 3GPP system shall be able to monitor traffic for a group of UEs that are
subscribed to share a common traffic usage allowance.
The 3GPP system shall be able to monitor the traffic usage of a UE in more
than one subscriber group simultaneously or by priority.
The 3GPP system shall be able to perform time based usage monitoring to
subscriber group.
## 8.3 Alternative Solutions
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe alternative solution to the key
issue.
### 8.3.1 Alternative Solution 1 - correlation at the SPR/UDR
This solution is based on some functional enhancements to the SPR/UDR and the
PCRF. The correlation of the group members is done at the SPR/UDR. The
allowance for the whole subscriber group is managed by one SPR/UDR. The
allowance for each group member is allocated by one SPR/UDR.
#### 8.3.1.1 Terminologies
**Group member remaining allowance:** The current allowance allocated to a
member of a subscriber group, which is part of the usage monitoring related
information in the SPR/UDR and sent to the PCRF. This value is updated as the
user consumes data, but is reinitialized to the initial value at the start of
the each allowance period (e.g., monthly billing cycle). The initial value may
not be the same for all members of the same group, which is configurable by
the operators for each group member.
**Group remaining allowance** : The remaining allowance of a subscriber group
after allocating group member remaining allowance to each group member.
#### 8.3.1.2 Information flow
Figure 8.3.1.2-1
0\. The usage monitoring related information of the subscriber group,
including the subscriber group ID, the group remaining allowance, and the
group member remaining allowance for each group member is stored in the
SPR/UDR.
1\. A group member attaches to the network and trigger the establishment of
the IP-CAN session.
2\. The PCEF requests to establish IP-CAN session for this subscriber.
3\. The PCRF requests the subscriber profile from the SPR/UDR.
4\. The SPR/UDR sends the subscriber profile to the PCRF, including the group
member remaining allowance for this user.
5\. The PCRF decides to enable usage monitoring for this group member, then
sends a usage threshold (which is smaller than or equal to the group member
remaining allowance) to the PCEF and requests the usage report trigger.
NOTE: Setting an appropriate group member remaining allowance which is larger
than the usage threshold may help to reduce the interaction between the PCRF
and the SPR/UDR.
6\. The PCEF monitors the usage of the user and reports to the PCRF when the
usage reaches the usage threshold, or the session is terminated. This is same
as usage monitoring for individual subscriber.
7\. The PCRF subtracts the used usage from the group member remaining
allowance of the user and stores the latest group member remaining allowance
in the PCRF.
8a. If the group member remaining allowance is not zero, the PCRF sends a new
usage threshold (which is smaller than or equal to the group member remaining
allowance) to the PCEF to continue the usage monitoring.
Step 6, 7, 8a may be repeated several times.
8b. When the group member remaining allowance in the PCRF reaches zero, or
when the session is terminated, the PCRF reports this latest group member
remaining allowance to the SPR/UDR.
9\. When the recorded group remaining allowance in the SPR/UDR is not zero,
the SPR/UDR allocates a new group remaining member allowance to this user and
subtracts the allocated allowance from the remaining group allowance. When the
recorded group remaining allowance in the SPR/UDR is zero, the SPR/UDR sets
the user\'s new group member remaining allowance to zero.
10\. The SPR/UDR sends the new group member remaining allowance to the PCRF
for this user.
11\. The PCRF responds to the SPR/UDR.
12\. The PCRF stores the new group member remaining allowance.
13\. If the new group member remaining allowance is not zero, the PCRF sends a
new usage threshold to the PCEF to continue the usage monitoring; if the new
group member remaining allowance is zero, the PCRF sends new policies to the
PCEF as the subscriber group total allowance runs out.
Editor\'s note: This alternative solution may require further enhancements to
ensure the full consumption of the total group allowance in a fair way when
the group remaining allowance becomes small.
### 8.3.2 Alternative Solution 2 - PCRF based solution
#### 8.3.2.1 Terminology
**Subscriber Group ID (SGID):** A reference that is used to identify a
Subscriber Group.
**Subscriber Group Member List (SGML):** A vector that contains the identities
of all Subscriber Group members.
**Group total allowance (GTA):** The allowance (volume or time based) that is
assigned to a Subscriber Group by the operator. Each member of the Subscriber
Group can use this allowance.
#### 8.3.2.2 Assumptions
Assumptions 1: Subscription Group Profile (e.g. SGID, SGML, and associated
GTA) is stored in SPR/UDR.
Assumptions 2: A Group-PCRF is needed to manage the associated GTA and the
usage threshold.
Editor note: How to choose the Group-PCRF is described in clause 8.3.2.4.
Editor note: In this solution, we assume that the usage monitoring is disabled
from the subscriber group when the user is in LBO roaming case.
#### 8.3.2.3 Solution Description
Based on the assumption, when each member under the Subscriber Group accesses
to the network, the network needs to select the Group-PCRF to serve the UE
access. The Group-PCRF acquires the Subscriber Group Profile from the SPR/UDR
when the IP-CAN Session/TDF Session for first UE of the Subscriber Group is
established. The Group-PCRF makes decision to enable the usage monitoring to
the Subscriber Group, including generating monitoring key, distributing usage
threshold based on the Subscription Group Profile and provides them to the
PCEF/TDF.
The PCEF/TDF performs usage monitoring based on the threshold, and reports the
accumulated usage to the Group-PCRF when the threshold is reached or the
report condition is met. Based on the usage reporting, the Group-PCRF makes
policy decision.
If the GTA runs out, the Group-PCRF can terminate the session or terminate
usage monitoring. Otherwise, the Group-PCRF can continue the usage monitoring.
The Group-PCRF reports the latest remaining GTA to the SPR/UDR when the
session is terminated.
Figure 8.3.2.3-1: Usage Monitoring Control for Subscriber Group
1\. The Subscriber Group Profile and the Subscriber Profile of each member of
the Subscriber Group are stored in the SPR/UDR.
2\. The first member of the Subscriber Group attaches to the network and
trigger the establishment of the IP-CAN Session.
3\. The PCEF sends IP-CAN session establishment request to the Group-PCRF.
NOTE: The Group-PCRF selection is described in clause 8.3.2.4.
4\. The Group-PCRF requests the Subscriber Group Profile and the Subscriber
Profile for the first member of the Subscriber Group from the SPR/UDR.
5\. The SPR/UDR sends the Subscriber Group Profile and the Subscriber Profile
for the first member of the Subscriber Group to the Group-PCRF.
6\. The Group-PCRF decides to enable usage monitoring for the Subscriber Group
member, including generating monitoring key, set a usage threshold based on
the Subscription Group Profile.
7\. If the TDF was deployed in the network, the Group-PCRF sends TDF session
establishment request to the TDF. The usage monitoring control information is
included in the request message as well.
8\. The TDF returns TDF Session establishment response to the Group-PCRF.
9\. Then Group-PCRF sends IP-CAN Session establishment response to the PCEF.
the usage monitoring control information will be included in the message, if
usage monitoring control function was enabled at the PCEF.
10a. The TDF performs usage monitoring based on the threshold, and reports the
accumulated usage to the Group-PCRF when the threshold is reached or the
report condition is met.
11a. The Group-PCRF returns a response to the TDF.
10b. The PCEF performs usage monitoring based on the threshold, and reports
the accumulated usage to the Group-PCRF when the threshold is reached or the
report condition is met.
11b. The Group-PCRF returns a response to the PCEF.
12\. The Group-PCRF sets another usage threshold based on remaining GTA and
send it to the PCEF/TDF, another usage monitoring cycle is started.
When the subsequent members of the Subscriber Group attach, the procedures
described in step 2-12, will be performed with the exception in step 5: only
the Subscriber Profile for the corresponding member of the Subscriber Group is
provided to the Group-PCRF.
If the threshold for UE from the subscriber group is asked while the GTA is
used out, as an optimization, the Group-PCRF can ask the other UEs to report
their current usage and remaining quota slice, then PCRF can re-assign the
usage threshold for all the users based on the reported remaining quota slice.
NOTE: It is assumed the same PCRF will be selected as the first member. How to
select Group-PCRF is described in clause 8.3.2.4.
13\. Based on the usage reporting, the Group-PCRF makes policy decision. If
the GTA runs out, the Group-PCRF can terminate the IP-CAN session and TDF
session or terminate usage monitoring. Otherwise, the Group-PCRF can continue
the usage monitoring.
The Group-PCRF reports the latest remaining GTA to the SPR/UDR when the usage
monitoring control is terminated (e.g. all the UEs belonging to the subscriber
group detaches).
14\. The SPR/UDR updates the remaining GTA to the Subscriber Group Profile.
15\. The SPR/UDR responds to the Group-PCRF.
#### 8.3.2.4 Group-PCRF selection
##### 8.3.2.4.1 Option 1: SPR/UDR-method
In this option, the PCRF selected for the first UE of a Subscriber group is
seen as the Group-PCRF for the corresponding Subscriber Group. The Group-PCRF
locates in the HPLMN and is selected by the P-GW/PCEF (for Non-roaming case
and Roaming case with Home routed) or vPCRF(for Roaming case with LBO).The IP
address of the Group-PCRF is deposited in the SPR/UDR when the first UE of the
Subscriber Group accesses. When the following UEs (members of the same
Subscriber Group) access, the IP address of the Group-PCRF is provided from
the SPR/UDR to the PCEF(s) for those UEs, the IP-CAN session establishment
messages for these UEs need to be redirected to the Group-PCRF if the
initially selected PCRFs are different from the Group-PCRF.
The corresponding call flow is described as below:
Taking as an example, UE-1 and UE-2 belongs to the same Subscriber Group.
PCEF-1 is selected serving for UE-1, PCEF-2 is selected serving for UE-2.
Figure 8.3.2.4.1-1: SPR/UDR based Group-PCRF Selection for Subscriber Group
Non-roaming, home routed roaming and Local Breakout cases are supported by
this method. The vPCRF shall be involved in the case of Local Breakout roaming
case.
1\. The PCEF-1 receives a request message when UE-1( the first attached UE)
attaches to the network. This triggers IP-CAN Session establishment procedure
with the PCRF.
2\. The PCEF-1 sends IP-CAN Session establishment request which includes UE-1
identity to the DRA. The DRA selects PCRF-1 for UE-1 based on the UE-1
identity.
3\. The PCRF-1 sends a request to the SPR/UDR in order to receive UE-1
Subscriber Profile. The PCRF-1 provides the UE-1 identity to the SPR/UDR. In
addition, the PCRF-1 IP Address will be included in the message as well.
4\. The SPR/UDR stores the PCRF-1 IP Address. The PCRF-1 will be treated as
Group-PCRF serving for the Subscriber Group member. The SPR/UDR creates a
linking record between the PCRF-1 IP Address and SGID.
NOTE: If all the UEs belonging to the subscriber group detaches from the
network, the PCRF-1should inform the SPR/UDR to remove the PCRF-1 IP address.
5\. The SPR/UDR sends the UE-1 Subscriber Profile and the Subscriber Group
Profile (SGID, SGML, GTA) to the PCRF-1.
6\. The PCRF-1 stores these information and returns IP-CAN Session
establishment response to the PCEF-1.
7\. When UE-2 which belongs to the same Subscriber Group attaches to the
network, the PCEF-2 is selected for serving UE-2 access.
8\. PCEF-2 sends IP-CAN Session establishment request message to the PCRF-2
via the DRA. The PCRF-2 is selected by the DRA based on the UE-2 identity
contained in the message.
9\. The PCRF-2 sends a request to the SPR/UDR in order to receive UE-2
Subscriber Profile. The UE-2 identity and the PCRF-2 IP Address will be
included in the request message.
10\. Based on the UE-2 identity received in step 9 and the SGML stored in
SPR/UDR, the SPR/UDR knows UE-2 and UE-1 belongs to the same Subscriber Group
and the PCRF-1 has been selected as the Group-PCRF. The SPR/UDR returns UE-2
Subscriber Profile and the PCRF-1 IP Address to the PCRF-2.
11\. After PCRF-2 receives the PCRF-1 IP Address, the PCRF-2 redirects the IP-
CAN Session for the UE-2 to the PCRF-1.
12\. The PCRF-2 sends the PCRF-1 IP Address to the PCEF-2.
13\. The PCEF-2 provides the PCRF-1 IP Address to DRA. The DRA updates the
relationship \ to \.
14\. The PCEF-2 sends IP-CAN Session establishment request to the PCRF-1.
15\. The PCRF-1 acquires UE-2 Subscriber Profile from the SPR/UDR.
16\. The PCRF-1 returns IP-CAN Session establishment response to the PCEF-2.
##### 8.3.2.4.2 Option 2: DRA-method
In this option, when the first UE of the Subscriber Group accesses to the
network, the DRA selects a PCRF for the UE based on the UE identity. This PCRF
is seen as the Group-PCRF and located in the HPLMN(roaming case). During the
IP-CAN Session establishment, the PCRF acquires Subscriber Group Profile
(SGID, SGML, GTA) from the SPR/UDR. The PCRF retrieves SGID, SGML from the
Subscriber Group Profile and provides them to the DRA. The DRA creates a
relationship between SGID, SGML and the PCRF IP Address. This PCRF will be
seen as the Group-PCRF serving for the other UE which under the same
Subscriber Group. When the other UEs access to the network, the DRA selects
the Group-PCRF for the UE based on the relationship.
There are proxy mode and redirect mode for DRA. The following solutions are
based on the two mode.
The call flow described in Figure 8.3.2.4.2-1 is based on Proxy DRA.
Figure 8.3.2.4.2-1: Proxy DRA based Group-PCRF Selection for Subscriber Group
Non-roaming, home routed roaming and Local Breakout cases are supported by
this method. The vPCRF shall be involved in the case of Local Breakout roaming
case.
1\. The PCEF-1 receives a request message when UE-1 attaches to the network.
This triggers IP-CAN Session establishment procedure with the PCRF.
2\. The PCEF-1 sends IP-CAN Session establishment request which includes UE-1
identity to the DRA.
3\. The DRA selects PCRF-1 for UE-1 based on the UE-1 identity.
4\. The DRA proxy the message to the PCRF-1.
5\. The PCRF-1 sends a request which includes UE-1 identity to the SPR/UDR in
order to receive UE-1 Subscriber Profile. According to the UE-1 identity, the
UE-1 belongs to a Subscriber Group, the related Subscriber Group Profile
(SGID, SGML, GTA) along with the UE-1 Subscriber Profile is sent to the PCRF-1
by the SPR/UDR.
6\. The PCRF-1 returns IP-CAN Session establishment response to the PCEF-1.
Meanwhile, PCRF retrieves SGID, SGML from the Subscriber Group Profile and
includes it in the message.
7\. The DRA retrieves SGID, SGML from the IP-CAN Session establishment
response message. A relationship between the SGID, SGML and the PCRF-1 IP
Address is created at DRA.
8\. The DRA returns IP-CAN Session establishment response to the PCEF-1.
9\. When UE-2 which belongs to the same Subscriber Group attaches to the
network, the PCEF-2 is selected for serving UE-2 access.
10\. PCEF-2 sends IP-CAN Session establishment request to the DRA. The UE-2
identity is contained in the message.
11\. According to the UE-2 identity and the above relationship, the DRA
selects PCRF-1 for UE-2.
12\. The DRA proxy the message the PCRF-1.
13\. The PCRF-1 retrieves UE-2 Subscriber Profile based on the UE-2 identity
from the SPR/UDR. Since the Subscriber Group Profile has been provided the
PCRF-1 in step 5, this step will not include this information.
14\. The PCRF-1 returns IP-CAN Session establishment response to the PCEF-2
via the DRA.
The call flow described in Figure 8.3.2.4.2-2 is based on Redirect DRA.
Figure 8.3.2.4.2-2: Redirect DRA based Group-PCRF Selection for Subscriber
Group
Non-roaming, home routed roaming and Local Breakout cases are supported by
this method. The vPCRF shall be involved in the case of Local Breakout roaming
case.
1\. The PCEF-1 receives a request message when UE-1 attaches to the network.
This triggers IP-CAN Session establishment procedure with the PCRF.
2\. The PCEF-1 sends IP-CAN Session establishment request which includes UE-1
identity to the DRA.
3\. The DRA selects PCRF-1 for UE-1 based on the UE-1 identity.
4\. The DRA sends a session redirect message which includes the PCRF-1 IP
Address to the PCEF-1.
5\. The PCEF-1 sends IP-CAN Session establishment request to the PCRF-1.
6\. The PCRF-1 sends a request which includes UE-1 identity to the SPR/UDR in
order to receive UE-1 Subscriber Profile. According to the UE-1 identity, the
UE-1 belongs to a Subscriber Group, the related Subscriber Group Profile
(SGID, SGML, GTA) along with the UE-1 Subscriber Profile is sent to the PCRF-1
by the SPR/UDR.
7\. The PCRF-1 returns IP-CAN Session establishment response to the PCEF-1.
Meanwhile, PCRF retrieves SGID, SGML from the Subscriber Group Profile and
includes it in the message.
8\. The PCEF-1 sends the SGID, SGML to the DRA.
9\. The DRA creates a relationship between the SGID, SGML and the PCRF-1 IP
Address.
10\. When UE-2 which belongs to the same Subscriber Group attaches to the
network, the PCEF-2 is selected for serving UE-2 access.
11\. PCEF-2 sends IP-CAN Session establishment request to the DRA. The UE-2
identity is contained in the message.
12\. According to the UE-2 identity and the above relationship, the DRA
selects PCRF-1 for UE-2.
13\. The DRA sends a session redirect message which includes the PCRF-1 IP
Address to the PCEF-2.
14\. The PCEF-2 sends IP-CAN Session establishment request to the PCRF-1.
15\. The PCRF-1 retrieves UE-2 Subscriber Profile based on the UE-2 identity
from the SPR/UDR. Since the Subscriber Group Profile has been provided the
PCRF-1 in step 5, this step will not include this information.
16\. The PCRF-1 returns IP-CAN Session establishment response to the PCEF-2.
#### 8.3.2.5 Functionality description of the Network entity and interface
**PCEF/TDF:**
Same function as defined for usage monitoring in Release 11, no enhancement
introduced.
**PCRF:**
Same function as defined for usage monitoring in Release 11, with the
additions:
-for the Subscriber Group member, including generating monitoring key, set a usage threshold based on the Subscription Group Profile.
\- If the GTA runs out, the PCRF shall terminate the IP-CAN session and TDF
session or terminate usage monitoring. Also, the PCRF shall report the latest
remaining GTA to the SPR/UDR when the usage monitoring control is terminated
(e.g. all the UEs belonging to the subscriber group detaches).
\- The PCRF shall redirect the IP-CAN Session establishment to another PCRF as
instructed by the SPR/UDR.(only for option 1: SPR/UDR-method).
**DRA:**
Same as defined for usage monitoring in Release 11, with the additions:
\- The DRA shall obtain the SGID, SGML from the SPR/UDR during the IP-CAN
Session establishment procedure. And a relationship between the SGID, SGML and
the Group-PCRF IP Address shall be created at DRA, which is used to assist to
locate the Group-PCRF for other UEs in the subscriber group.( only for option
2: DRA-method).
**SPR/UDR:**
Same function as defined for usage monitoring in Release 11, with the
additions:
\- The SPR/UDR shall store the Subscription Group Profile (e.g. SGID, SGML,
and associated GTA)
\- The SPR/UDR shall create a linking record between the Group-PCRF IP Address
and SGID, which is used to assist to locate the Group-PCRF for other UEs in
the subscriber group. (only for option 1: SPR/UDR-method)
**Sp Interface:**
Same function as defined for usage monitoring in Release 11, with the
additions:
\- The Sp interface shall support to convey the Subscriber Group Profile from
SPR/UDR to PCRF and convey the latest remaining GTA to the SPR/UDR when the
usage monitoring control is terminated (e.g. all the UEs belonging to the
subscriber group detaches).
\- The Sp interface should support to convey the PCRF address between SPR/UDR
and PCRF. (only for option 1: SPR/UDR-method)
## 8.4 Evaluation
Editor\'s Note: This clause will evaluate the alternative solutions.
## 8.5 Conclusion
Editor\'s Note: This clause will provide conclusions with respects to
preferred solution and what further specification work is required.
# 9 Key Issue 6: Time based Usage Monitoring
## 9.1 Description
## 9.2 Use Cases
### 9.2.1 Descriptions
This use case describes a scenario for time based monitoring.
### 9.2.2 Pre-conditions
Alice is a subscriber of mobile network X and she has the following
subscription:
(A) She is a postpaid subscriber;
(B) 3 Hour time allowance for streaming video;
(C) In addition, 2G total volume allowance for all the other traffic.
When 3 hour time allowance is reached, the streaming video will be blocked.
### 9.2.3 Service Flows
If Alice attaches to the mobile network X and accesses only streaming video
service, the subscription profile (B) will apply: the network will be able to
monitor the traffic usage and detect if the 3 hour time allowance for
streaming video is used up. After the 3 hour time allowance is used up, mobile
network X will block streaming video service from Alice.
If Alice attaches to the mobile network X, and accesses other services,
subscription (C) will apply. The network will be able to monitor the traffic
usage and detect if the volume allowance for other services is used up.
### 9.2.4 Post-conditions
None.
### 9.2.5 Requirements
The 3GPP system shall be able to perform time based usage monitoring for
service data flow and/or application.
## 9.3 Alternative Solutions
### 9.3.1 Alternative Solution 1: Introduction of time based units
In this alternative solution it is proposed to use time based units for usage
monitoring report requested by the PCRF from the PCEF/TDF for measuring
effective time used by the sdf/applications.
The request for usage monitoring report shall be done by using the same
mechanisms as currently defined for volume based usage monitoring.
The report shall be done in the same manner as for volume based usage
monitoring report.
The mechanism for time based usage monitoring shall be identical to the Quota
Consumption Time mechanism as defined in TS 32.299 [4] and described in the
following text in details for the interactions between the PCRF and the
PCEF/TDF.
In order to support time based usage monitoring, the PCRF may optionally
indicate to the PCEF/TDF, along with other usage monitoring information
provided, the Inactivity Detection Time. This value represents the time
interval after which the time measurement shall stop for the Monitoring key,
if no packets are received belonging to the corresponding Monitoring Key
during that time period. Time measurement shall resume on receipt of a further
packet belonging to the Monitoring key.
Time measurement for a Monitoring key shall also be stopped when time based
usage monitoring is disabled, if this happens before the Inactivity Detection
Time is reached.
If an Inactivity Detection Time value of zero is provided, or if no Inactivity
Detection Time is present within the usage monitoring information provided by
the PCRF, the time measurement shall be performed continuously from the point
at which it was started until time based usage monitoring is disabled.
## 9.4 Evaluation
An evaluation of different alternative solutions was done in the paper
S2-122743 and the decision was that other methods are not sufficient from the
operator\'s perspective and that time based usage monitoring is required.
## 9.5 Conclusion
It is proposed to standardize the control of time based usage monitoring
functionality over Gx/Sd as described in the Alternative Solution 1.
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc341713003 .anchor}Annex A:\ Change history
+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | **C | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hist | | | | | | | | | ory** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Date | T | TSG | CR | Rev | Subje | Old | New | | | SG # | Doc. | | | ct/Co | | | | | | | | | mment | | | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | Ske | | 0.0.0 | | 11-07 | | | | | leton | | | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | | | posed | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | SA2 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | TSG | 0.0.0 | 0.1.0 | | 11-08 | | | | | SA | | | | | | | | | WG1 | | | | | | | | | Me | | | | | | | | | eting | | | | | | | | | #55: | | | | | | | | | Incl | | | | | | | | | usion | | | | | | | | | of: | | | | | | | | | S1-11 | | | | | | | | | 2307, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S1-11 | | | | | | | | | 2308, | | | | | | | | | S1-11 | | | | | | | | | 2309, | | | | | | | | | S1-1 | | | | | | | | | 12421 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | TSG | 0.1.0 | 0.2.0 | | 11-11 | | | | | SA | | | | | | | | | WG1 | | | | | | | | | Me | | | | | | | | | eting | | | | | | | | | #56: | | | | | | | | | Incl | | | | | | | | | usion | | | | | | | | | of: | | | | | | | | | S1-11 | | | | | | | | | 3027, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S1-1 | | | | | | | | | 13436 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | TSG | 0.2.0 | 0.3.0 | | 12-02 | | | | | SA | | | | | | | | | WG1 | | | | | | | | | Me | | | | | | | | | eting | | | | | | | | | #57: | | | | | | | | | Incl | | | | | | | | | usion | | | | | | | | | of: | | | | | | | | | S1-1 | | | | | | | | | 20264 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | | | | | TSG | 0.3.0 | 0.4.0 | | 012-2 | | | | | SA | | | | | | | | | WG1 | | | | | | | | | Me | | | | | | | | | eting | | | | | | | | | #58: | | | | | | | | | Incl | | | | | | | | | usion | | | | | | | | | of: | | | | | | | | | S1-1 | | | | | | | | | 21107 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | TSG | 0.4.0 | 0.5.0 | | 12-07 | | | | | SA | | | | | | | | | WG2 | | | | | | | | | Me | | | | | | | | | eting | | | | | | | | | #92: | | | | | | | | | Incl | | | | | | | | | usion | | | | | | | | | of: | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | S2-12 | | | | | | | | | 3127] | | | | | | | | | (../. | | | | | | | | | ./../ | | | | | | | | | ../.. | | | | | | | | | /../. | | | | | | | | | ./../ | | | | | | | | | E:/1% | | | | | | | | | 20Pro | | | | | | | | | tocol | | | | | | | | | /3GPP | | | | | | | | | /Meet | | | | | | | | | ing%2 | | | | | | | | | 0Mate | | | | | | | | | rials | | | | | | | | | /TSGS | | | | | | | | | 2_92_ | | | | | | | | | Barce | | | | | | | | | lona/ | | | | | | | | | Docs/ | | | | | | | | | S2-12 | | | | | | | | | 3127. | | | | | | | | | zip), | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | S2-12 | | | | | | | | | 2786] | | | | | | | | | (../. | | | | | | | | | ./../ | | | | | | | | | ../.. | | | | | | | | | /../. | | | | | | | | | ./../ | | | | | | | | | E:/1% | | | | | | | | | 20Pro | | | | | | | | | tocol | | | | | | | | | /3GPP | | | | | | | | | /Meet | | | | | | | | | ing%2 | | | | | | | | | 0Mate | | | | | | | | | rials | | | | | | | | | /TSGS | | | | | | | | | 2_92_ | | | | | | | | | Barce | | | | | | | | | lona/ | | | | | | | | | Docs/ | | | | | | | | | S2-12 | | | | | | | | | 2786. | | | | | | | | | zip), | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | S2-12 | | | | | | | | | 3129] | | | | | | | | | (../. | | | | | | | | | ./../ | | | | | | | | | ../.. | | | | | | | | | /../. | | | | | | | | | ./../ | | | | | | | | | E:/1% | | | | | | | | | 20Pro | | | | | | | | | tocol | | | | | | | | | /3GPP | | | | | | | | | /Meet | | | | | | | | | ing%2 | | | | | | | | | 0Mate | | | | | | | | | rials | | | | | | | | | /TSGS | | | | | | | | | 2_92_ | | | | | | | | | Barce | | | | | | | | | lona/ | | | | | | | | | Docs/ | | | | | | | | | S2-12 | | | | | | | | | 3129. | | | | | | | | | zip), | | | | | | | | | S2-12 | | | | | | | | | 3336, | | | | | | | | | S2-12 | | | | | | | | | 3337, | | | | | | | | | S2-1 | | | | | | | | | 23338 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | TSG | 0.5.0 | 0.6.0 | | 12-08 | | | | | SA | | | | | | | | | WG1 | | | | | | | | | Me | | | | | | | | | eting | | | | | | | | | #59: | | | | | | | | | Incl | | | | | | | | | usion | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | S1-12 | | | | | | | | | 2065, | | | | | | | | | S1-12 | | | | | | | | | 2120, | | | | | | | | | S1-1 | | | | | | | | | 22066 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | Corre | 0.6.0 | 0.6.1 | | 12-08 | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | hi | | | | | | | | | story | | | | | | | | | table | | | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | TSG | 0.6.1 | 0.7.0 | | 12-11 | | | | | SA | | | | | | | | | WG2 | | | | | | | | | Me | | | | | | | | | eting | | | | | | | | | #94: | | | | | | | | | Incl | | | | | | | | | usion | | | | | | | | | of: | | | | | | | | | S2-12 | | | | | | | | | 4654, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S2-12 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 4668, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S2-12 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 4871, | | | | | | | | | S2-1 | | | | | | | | | 24872 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | _201 |_ S | * | _-_ | _-_ | _MCC |_ 0 | _1 | | 2-11_ | P-56 _| SP-12 | | | edit | .7.0_ | .0.0 _| | | | 0734_ | | | orial | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | ve | | | | | | | | | rsion | | | | | | | | | 1.0.0 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | | esent | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | TSG | | | | | | | | | SA | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | In | | | | | | | | | forma | | | | | | | | | tion* | | | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | TSG | 1.0.0 | 1.1.0 | | 13-02 | | | | | SA | | | | | | | | | WG2 | | | | | | | | | Me | | | | | | | | | eting | | | | | | | | | #95: | | | | | | | | | Incl | | | | | | | | | usion | | | | | | | | | of: | | | | | | | | | S2-13 | | |