# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Report describes solutions for interworking between mobile
operators and data application providers. The solutions developed will
describe a framework for authentication, authorization, policy and charging
for various interworking scenarios.
**Solutions developed as part of this work item will cover the following
different relationships between mobile operators and data application
providers for both roaming and non-roaming cases when**
\- **mobile operator owns all the application layer entities** ;
\- **mobile operator does not own all the application layer entities.**
The technical report will investigate charging, policy and group addressing
capabilities for interworking between mobile operators and data application
providers. **Updates to 3GPP functions and interfaces will be specified for
solutions based on IMS and/or EPC.**
On-going work for authentication and other aspects in other 3GPP work items
will not be duplicated. It will be investigated whether changes to 3GPP
specifications are needed and if so which ones. The work item will focus on
impacts to IMS and EPC.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G Security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP Network
Layer Security\".
[4] 3GPP TR 33.924: \"Identity Management and 3GPP Security Interworking;
Identity Management and Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA)
Interworking\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.335: \"User Data Convergence (UDC); Technical Realization and
Information Flows; Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and charging control architecture\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.402: \"Architecture enhancements for non-3GPP accesses\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.240: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging architecture and principles\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.299: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Diameter charging applications\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Bootstrapping Server Function (BSF):** Definition from TS 33.220 [2].
**Network Application Function (NAF):** Definition from TS 33.220 [2].
**OpenID Provider (OP):** Definition in TR 33.924 [4].
**Relying Party (RP):** Definition in TR 33.924 [4].
**User Data Repository (UDR):** Definition in TS 23.335 [5].
**Front End (FE):** Definition in TS 23.335 [5].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
BSF Bootstrapping Server Function
IdP Identity Provider
GAA Generic Authentication Architecture
GBA Generic Bootstrapping Architecture
NAF Network Application Function
OP OpenID Provider
FE Front End
UDC User Data Convergence
UDR User Data Repository
# 4 Scenarios for interworking between mobile operators and data application
providers
Several scenarios are presented in this section. They can exist simultaneously
in a mobile operator\'s network. Figure 4-1 shows the non-roaming scenario
where the mobile operator owns the EPS as well as application layer entities.
Access and IP connectivity is provided by the mobile operator. Application
platforms, also provided by the mobile operator, shown in the figure connect
to the core network directly. Application platforms could be application
servers (e.g. Video on Demand Server, PSS Server, MTC Server, etc.).
{width="4.03125in" height="3.377083333333333in"}
Figure 4-1: Non-roaming scenario - All entities owned by mobile operator
{width="4.565277777777778in" height="3.377083333333333in"}
Figure 4-2: Non-roaming scenario - Application platform owned by 3rd
Parties/Internet
Figure 4-2 provides the non-roaming scenario where the mobile operator does
not own all the application layer entities. Access and IP connectivity is
provided by the mobile operator. The 3rd party Application Platforms in this
figure could be application servers (e.g. Video on Demand Server, PSS Server,
MTC Server, etc.) or could be 3rd party software development platforms. The
horizontal line represents the demarcation between the mobile operator domain
and the 3rd party application provider domain. The mobile operator and 3rd
party application providers may have agreements.
{width="5.565277777777778in" height="3.9243055555555557in"}
Figure 4-3: Home Routed Roaming scenario - Home Mobile Operator
owned/collaborated Application Platform
Figure 4-3 provides the roaming scenario for both the above owned and
collaborative scenarios. This figure shows the home-routed scenario where all
traffic is routed to home mobile operator EPS and applications are delivered
via roaming agreements between mobile operators.
{width="5.764583333333333in" height="3.432638888888889in"}
Figure 4-4: Local Breakout roaming scenario - visited mobile operator
collaborative Application Platform
Figure 4-4 provides the roaming scenario between mobile operators and 3rd
party application provider domains. In this scenario the application provider
has agreements with visited mobile operator. This figure shows the local-
breakout scenario where all traffic is routed to application domain from the
visited operator network. The home network still performs authentication and
authorisation of the user, and also provides policy information to the visited
network using the existing mechanisms and roaming agreements.
NOTE: Application provider interaction with the visited mobile operator for
the policy happens directly because of the collaboration with visited mobile
operator.
Editor\'s Note: Other scenarios for (1) Home-routed roaming, with VPLMN
owned/collaborative; (2) LBO roaming, with HPLMN owned/collaborative, (3) LBO
roaming, with VPLMN owned/collaborative are for FFS.
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS whether it is required to have policy interactions
between the Application platform and HPLMN in order to fulfil this scenario or
it is possible to fulfil all the policy interactions directly with the VPLMN.
# 5 Architectural Requirements
This work-item shall use existing standards to achieve the objectives to the
extent possible.
# 6 Solutions for interworking between mobile operators and data application
providers
## 6.1 Architecture #1
### 6.1.1 Architecture Principles
Non-roaming and roaming home-routed/local breakout scenarios are supported.
The UDC architecture is used as a basis for user data management. UDR can be
used by the non-IMS AS to store/retrieve application related data via Mh. The
data model used for storing and retrieval is transparent to the UDR.
GBA and interworking between GBA and OpenID is used as a basis for security
framework. Roaming scenarios are also addressed.
Network Domain Security (TS 33.210 [3]) can be used for security of reference
points exposed to 3rd parties.
### 6.1.2 Architecture Description
Solution is based on existing EPC architecture along with UDC and GBA
architectures (TS 33.220 [2], TS 33.210 [3], TR 33.924 [4], TS 23.335 [5]).
{width="6.69375in" height="4.685416666666667in"}
Figure 6.1.2-1: Non-Roaming Architecture - all entities owned by the Mobile
Operator
Figure 6.1.2-1 shows the architecture components and the interfaces.
EPC components (eNB, SGW, PGW, MME and PCRF) are specified in TS 23.401 [6].
UDC components (UDR and HSS-FE) are specified in TS 23.335 [5].
GBA (BSF, NAF and SLF) are specified in TS 33.220 [2]. GBA and OpenID
interworking components (OP and RP) are identified in TR 33.924 [4].
The non-IMS Application server can belong to the Mobile Network Operator or to
a 3^rd^ party application provider. In the latter case, appropriate security
mechanisms need to be provided to protect the interfaces to PCRF, OCS, OFCS,
HSS-FE and RP such as TS 33.210 [3].
The following are the associated interfaces for the architecture:
\- S1-MME, S1-U, S5, S6a, Gx, S8, S9, S11, SGi are specified in TS 23.401 [6].
\- Gxc is specified in TS 23.402 [8]
\- Rx, Sy, Gy, Gz are specified in TS 23.203 [7].
\- Ud is specified in TS 23.335 [5].
\- Zh, Zn, Ua, Ub, Dz are specified in TS 33.220 [2].
\- Mh is the interface between the non-IMS AS and HSS-FE and it can span
beyond 3GPP (H)PLMN. It is similar to the Sh interface but it is not used by
IMS application. Protocol used on Mh is assumed to be based on Sh as defined
in 3GPP.
\- Mo, Mf are the interfaces between the MNO owned non-IMS AS and OCS, OFCS
respectively and can span beyond 3GPP (H)PLMN. They are based on the Ro and Rf
interfaces specified in TS 32.240 [9] and TS 32.299 [10].
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="4.5465277777777775in"}
Figure 6.1.2-2: Non-Roaming Architecture - non-IMS AS owned by 3^rd^ party
Application Provider
Figure 6.1.2-2 shows the non-roaming architecture where the non-IMS AS is
owned by 3^rd^ party data application provider (DAP). Collaboration between
the mobile operator and the DAP can be based on one or more of the following
aspects: authentication, charging, data storage, and policies. The appropriate
procedures will be used based on the collaborative aspects.
The following aspects are different than the scenario where non-IMS AS is
owned by the MNO:
\- Mo and Mf are interfaces between the 3rd party owned non-IMS AS and the
operator owned OCS/OFCS. These could be based on Ro and Rf as agreed by MNO
and 3rd party DAP. They could also be based on specifications of other SDO
(e.g. oneAPI).
\- All interfaces exposed to 3rd party DAP will need to have security aspects
specified.
Figure 6.1.2-3: Home-Routed Roaming Architecture - non-IMS AS owned by HPLMN
Figure 6.1.2-3 shows the home routed roaming architecture where the HPLMN owns
the non-IMS AS.
{width="6.506944444444445in" height="4.824305555555555in"}
Figure 6.1.2-4: Local Breakout Roaming Architecture
Editor\'s Note: Charging aspect for LBO case is FFS.
Editor\'s Note: Architecture for LBO case is FFS.
### 6.1.3 Interface Enhancements
### 6.1.4 Impacts on existing nodes or functionality
### 6.1.5 Non-IMS Procedures for Non-roaming Cases
#### 6.1.5.0 Introduction
The procedures defined in this clause are applicable to the non-roaming cases
where the non-IMS AS is owned by either a mobile operator or a 3rd party Data
Application Provider.
#### 6.1.5.1 Authentication Procedures
##### 6.1.5.1.0 Introduction
As per clause 6.1.1, GBA and interworking between GBA and OpenID is used as a
basis for security framework.
For the case of non-IMS AS owned by 3rd party Data Application Provider,
authentication for the user subscribing to an application service is
terminated at HSS-FE in the mobile operator network. Following is the
requirement addressing this case, which is specified in TS 22.278, clause 5.3.
\- For scenario#2, the Evolved Packet System shall enable 3rd party data
applications to rely on security derived from the security provided by the
operator.
For the case of non-IMS AS owned by mobile operator, authentication is always
terminated at HSS-FE in the mobile operator network.
##### 6.1.5.1.1 Non-IMS Successful Authentication Procedure
Figure 6.1.5.1.1-1: Non-IMS Successful Authentication Procedure
Figure 6.1.5.1.1-1 shows the non-IMS successful authentication procedure.
1-11. These steps are as defined in TR 33.924 [4], clause 4.4.1.
##### 6.1.5.1.2 Non-IMS Re-authentication Procedure
Figure 6.1.5.1.2-1: Non-IMS Re-authentication Procedure
Figure 6.1.5.1.2-1 shows the non-IMS re-authentication procedure.
1\. UE sends a request for a service (e.g. HTTP Request, etc.) to the non-IMS
AS/RP. Based on local policies, the non-IMS AS decides to re-authenticate the
UE. The authentication information generated based on the security context
established during the initial authentication is included in this message.
2\. This step is as defined in step 2 of clause 4.4.1 in TR 33.924 [4].
3\. This step is as defined in step 3 of clause 4.4.1 in TR 33.924 [4].
4\. This step is as defined in step 4 of clause 4.4.1 in TR 33.924 [4].
5\. The bootstrapping usage procedure is as defined in TS 33.220 [2], clause
4.5.3.
6\. This step is as defined in step 10 of clause 4.4.1 in TR 33.924 [4].
7\. This step is as defined in step 11 of clause 4.4.1 in TR 33.924 [4].
#### 6.1.5.2 Charging Procedures
##### 6.1.5.2.0 Introduction
The following is the requirement for charging specified in TS 22.278, clause
5.3.
\- The Evolved Packet System shall support online and offline charging models
(e.g., user pays, application provider pays, etc.) for all scenarios.
To accommodate the requirement above, both online and offline charging
procedures need to be supported, which are described in the following clauses.
Authentication and authorization associated with charging interfaces to 3^rd^
party DAP are based on the business agreement between MNO and DAP and out of
Release 12 MOSAP scope.
##### 6.1.5.2.1 Non-IMS AS Assisted Offline Charging Scenarios
##### 6.1.5.2.1.0 Introduction {#introduction-3 .H6}
Offline charging for both events and sessions between non-IMS AS and OFCS is
performed using the Mf interface. Two basic scenarios are supported for
offline charging:
(1) Event based offline charging;
(2) Session based offline charging.
NOTE: The non-IMS AS and OFCS used in this clause are mapped to CTF and CDF
used in TS 32.299 [10], clause 5.1 respectively.
##### 6.1.5.2.1.1 Event Based Offline Charging Procedure {#event-based-
offline-charging-procedure .H6}
Figure 6.1.5.2.1.1-1 Event Based Offline Charging Procedure
Figure 6.1.5.2.1.1-1 describes the event based offline charging procedure
assisted by the non-IMS AS.
1-6. These steps are as specified in TS 32.299 [10], clause 5.1.1.1.
##### 6.1.5.2.1.2 Session Based Offline Charging Procedure {#session-based-
offline-charging-procedure .H6}
Figure 6.1.5.2.1.2-1 Session Based Offline Charging Procedure
Figure 6.1.5.2.1.2-1 describes the session based offline charging procedure
assisted by the non-IMS AS.
1-15. These steps are as specified in TS 32.299 [10], clause 5.1.1.2.
##### 6.1.5.2.2 Non-IMS AS Assisted Online Charging Scenarios
Online charging for both events and sessions between MNO owned non-IMS AS and
OCS is performed using the Mo interface.
Three basic scenarios are supported for online charging:
(1) Immediate Event Charging;
(2) Event charging with Reservation;
(3) Session charging with Reservation.
For each aforementioned basic scenario, the specific cases will be studied by
SA5.
NOTE: Online charging aspects between third party owned non-IMS AS and OCS are
based on operator agreements.
#### 6.1.5.3 Mh Interaction Related Procedures
##### 6.1.5.3.0 Introduction
As per clause 6.1.1, the UDC architecture is used as a basis for user data
management. To accommodate the message interaction between HSS-FE and UDR
specified in TS 23.335 [5], clauses 5.3, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6, 5.7 and 5.8, following
related message interaction over Mh interface needs to be addressed
accordingly.
(1) Querying data procedure;
(2) Creating data procedure;
(3) Deleting data procedure;
(4) Updating data procedure;
(5) Subscription to Notifications procedure;
(6) Notification for data modification procedure.
##### 6.1.5.3.1 Querying Data Procedure
Figure 6.1.5.3.1-1: Querying Data Procedure
Figure 6.1.5.3.1-1 shows the querying data procedure.
1\. The non-IMS AS sends a Query Data Request message via Mh to the HSS-FE.
The message shall contain:
\- the user identity;
\- the identification of the user data to be queried.
NOTE: User data identification and structure comply with the HSS-FE\'s data
view.
2-5. These steps are as per steps 1-4 specified in TS 23.335 [5], clause 5.3.
6\. The HSS-FE responds to the non-IMS AS with a Query Data Answer message via
Mh.
The non-IMS AS then continues processing its logic.
The message shall contain:
\- the requested user data.
##### 6.1.5.3.2 Creating Data Procedure
Figure 6.1.5.3.2-1: Creating Data Procedure
Figure 6.1.5.3.2-1 shows the creating data procedure.
1\. The non-IMS AS sends a Create Data Request message via Mh to the HSS-FE.
The message shall contain:
\- the user identity;
\- the new user data.
2-6. These steps are as per steps 1-5 specified in TS 23.335 [5], clause 5.4.
7\. The HSS-FE responds to the non-IMS AS with a Create Data Acknowledge
message via Mh. The non-IMS AS then continues processing its logic.
The message shall contain:
\- the identification of the user data created.
##### 6.1.5.3.3 Deleting Data Procedure
Figure 6.1.5.3.3-1: Deleting Data Procedure
Figure 6.1.5.3.3-1 shows the deleting data procedure.
1\. The non-IMS AS sends a Delete Data Request message via Mh to the HSS-FE.
The message shall contain:
\- the user identity;
\- the identification of the user data to be deleted.
The message may contain:
\- The deletion condition, if supported by HSS-FE.
2-7. These steps are as per steps 1-6 specified in TS 23.335 [5], clause 5.5.
8\. The HSS-FE responds to the non-IMS AS with a Delete Data Acknowledge
message via Mh. The non-IMS AS then continues processing its logic.
##### 6.1.5.3.4 Updating Data Procedure
Figure 6.1.5.3.4-1: Updating Data Procedure
Figure 6.1.5.3.4-1 shows the updating data procedure.
1\. The non-IMS AS sends a Update Data Request message via Mh to the HSS-FE.
The message shall contain:
\- the user identity;
\- the identification of the user data to be updated;
\- the new data value to be written.
The message may contain:
\- The deletion condition, if supported by HSS-FE.
2-6. These steps are as per steps 1-5 specified in TS 23.335 [5], clause 5.6.
7\. The HSS-FE responds to the non-IMS AS with a Update Data Answer message
via Mh. The non-IMS AS then continues processing its logic.
##### 6.1.5.3.5 Subscription to Notifications Procedure
Figure 6.1.5.3.5-1: Subscription to Notifications Procedure
Figure 6.1.5.3.5-1 shows the subscription to notifications procedure.
1\. The non-IMS AS sends a Subscription Request message via Mh to the HSS-FE.
The message may contain:
\- the user identity;
\- subscription type which indicates whether this request is to subscribe or
unsubscribe;
\- subscription to notification information (Identification of the requested
user data, the notification condition(s), the expiry time indicating the point
in time when the subscription to notification expires, the identity of the
non-IMS AS).
2-5. These steps are as per steps 1-4 specified in TS 23.335 [5], clause 5.7.
6\. The HSS-FE responds to the non-IMS AS with a Subscription Response message
via Mh. The non-IMS AS then continues processing its logic.
##### 6.1.5.3.6 Notification for Data Modification Procedure
Figure 6.1.5.3.6-1: Notification for Data Modification Procedure
Figure 6.1.5.3.6-1 shows the notification for data modification procedure.
1-5. These steps are as per steps 1-5 specified in TS 23.335 [5], clause 5.8.
6\. The HSS-FE sends a Subscription Response message to the non-IMS AS via Mh.
This step can happen just after step 4. The non-IMS AS shall perform the
relevant application logic.
7\. The non-IMS AS responds to the HSS-FE with a Subscription Request message
via Mh. The HSS-FE shall perform the relevant logic.
#### 6.1.5.4 Non-IMS AS Discovery Procedure
##### 6.1.5.4.0 Introduction
The Non-IMS AS discovery may be performed using one of the following
mechanisms:
\- The UE may be configured to know the fully qualified domain name (FQDN) or
the IP address of the non-IMS AS for the UE.
\- The non-IMS AS discovery may be performed after the IP connectivity has
been established. DHCP mechanism can be used to provide the IP address of a
non-IMS AS, or alternatively, the FQDN of a non-IMS AS and the IP address of a
DNS server which can resolve the FQDN of the non-IMS AS. DNS resolution is
used to obtain the IP address of the non-IMS AS. This mechanism is described
in clause 6.1.5.4.1
##### 6.1.5.4.1 Non-IMS AS Discovery Procedure based on DHCP/DNS
Figure 6.1.5.4.1-1 Non-IMS AS Discovery Procedure based on DHCP/DNS
1\. An IP-CAN Bearer is established if not available.
2\. The UE interacts with a DHCP server to request the domain name and/or IP
address of the non-IMS AS and IP address of DNS server. This step may require
multiple DHCP Query/Response message exchanges to retrieve the requested
information. DHCP Relay within IP-CAN may be used between UE and DHCP server.
3\. The UE performs a DNS Query/Response interaction with DNS server to
retrieve the non-IMS AS IP address with including the FQDN of the non-IMS AS
in the DNS Query message. This step is not needed if the IP address of the
non-IMS AS has been obtained in step 2.
#### 6.1.5.5 Policy Control Interaction Procedures Triggered by Non-IMS
Application
##### 6.1.5.5.1 Procedures for MNO Owned and 3^rd^ Party Owned Non-IMS AS
Cases
The following requirement is specified in TS 22.278, clause 5.3.
\- The Evolved Packet System shall support policy control interactions between
a mobile operator and data applications for all scenarios triggered by
application layer signalling or by user plane traffic.
To accommodate the above requirement, when there is a request for a new
service requiring QoS guarantee, policy control interaction procedures are as
per clause 7.4 of TS 23.203 [7].
NOTE: The PCRF is assumed to have the knowledge about what QoS is to be
authorized for the specific application.
### 6.1.6 Non-IMS Procedures for Home-routed Roaming Case
#### 6.1.6.1 Authentication Procedures
Refer to clause 6.1.5.1.
#### 6.1.6.2 Charging Procedures
Refer to clause 6.1.5.2.
#### 6.1.6.3 Mh Interaction Related Procedures
Refer to clause 6.1.5.3.
#### 6.1.6.4 Non-IMS AS Discovery Procedure
Refer to clause 6.1.5.4.
#### 6.1.6.5 Policy Control Interaction Procedures Triggered by Non-IMS
Application
Refer to clause 6.1.5.5.1.
### 6.1.7 Evaluation
# 7 Conclusion
## 7.1 Interim Conclusions for Release 12 Specification Work
This clause contains the agreed conclusions:
a) For MNO-owned non-IMS AS, Mh interface can reuse the existing Sh and Ud
interfaces for transparent user data.
b) For MNO-owned non-IMS AS, Mo and Mf interfaces will be based on the
existing Ro and Rf interfaces.
c) The procedure provided in this TR will be used for re-authentication
procedure for GAA/GBA and OpenID interworking.
d) The existing Rx interface will be used by non-IMS AS for all non-roaming
cases and home-routed roaming case.
#