# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is for investigating deployment aspects that relate to
energy efficiency, including potential system enhancements that support energy
efficient deployments. System enhancements may be anticipated in the area of
functions that have major influence on deployment like functions that support
pools of CN nodes or functions that enable multiple CN nodes to serve the same
or overlapping areas. The initial focus is on PS domain. This study should
avoid any overlap with the work by RAN/CT/SA5 by taking into account the work
that has been and is going on in these WGs. Proposals have to be well
justified to be considered in this document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"GPRS enhancements for E-UTRAN access\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Energy conservation mode** (for load re-distribution): an operational state,
subject to implementation, of an EPC node with reduced capacity (e.g. in terms
of number of users to be handled) or performance (e.g. in terms of data rate
for user plane handling), requiring less power than in normal operational
state. Subject to implementation, a node in energy conservation mode may
reduce its capacity/performance to zero.
**Suspension mode** (for load re-distribution): an operational state of an EPC
node where load needs to be reduced (by re-distribution to alternative nodes).
While in suspension mode, this node will not be selected to handle further
users. In the context of this technical report, suspension mode is used to
enable load redistribution for energy saving reasons.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] apply.
# 4 Approaches for Energy Efficient Deployments
This clause describes high level approaches that enable or support energy
efficient deployments. The energy efficient deployment scenarios that are
described and evaluated later in this document are assumed to base on one or
more of the mechanisms provided by the system architecture, which are:
\- Separation of control and user plane allowing for independent scaling and
deployment of related network entities and deployment at different locations,
e.g. allowing for operating control functionality at locations with more
energy efficient conditions, which could be locations with lower cooling
requirements or where functionality can be shared with other applications or
can be hosted in a more energy efficient way.
\- Aggregation or pooling of network entities, allowing for higher
multiplexing gains or economies of scale not only for PLMN specific
functionality, but also for example for power supply or air conditioning. It
can also reduce the amount of deployed spare capacity that is used, for
example, to cope with load changes or for reliability reasons.
\- Load balancing/(re)distribution approaches; allowing network nodes to
operate at an energy efficient load status, or for offloading nodes followed
by a change to some energy saving mode.
Further, it is assumed that energy efficient deployments shall have minimum
impact on user experience.
# 5 Energy Efficient Deployment Scenarios
## 5.1 Scenario: Pooled deployment of MMEs
### 5.1.1 Scenario description
The separation into user and control plane network entities enables separate
deployments of those network entities. In the scenario described here the user
plane network entities are deployed more distributed, i.e. topologically
closer to the RAN to optimise the routing and reduce the required transmission
resources. The control plane network entities MME are deployed as a pool of
MMEs to take advantage from the pooling effects, like better scaling or
possibilities to distribute traffic between different nodes. On the other
hand, pooled MMEs will cover a larger geographical area compared to a single
MME deployment and therefore resulting in less MME changes compared to a
single MME deployment. As these single MMEs most probably will be deployed at
different locations, the single MME deployment will result in increased inter-
MME transmission effort compared to a pooled deployment.
A drawback of that pooled deployment of MMEs is that some considerable
signalling traffic may occur between eNBs, S-GWs and MMEs. In contrast to the
transmission resource gains in the user plane this increases transmission
efforts for the control plane as the user plane nodes and the MMEs are
deployed at topologically different locations.
##### Traffic model for Service Request procedures {#traffic-model-for-
service-request-procedures .H6}
An interesting procedure of that deployment scenario is the Service Request
procedure due to its high rate. The following estimation characterises the
required signalling capacity and performance. For this estimation an MME with
1 Mio subscriber capacity is assumed. As a rough estimation it is assumed that
only 50 % of the MME\'s subscriber capacity is used by attached and active UE.
Assuming just 50 % compensates for some percentage of active UEs with lower
activity or that some of the Service Requests are initiated for other purposes
than just changing to active state. With this compensation it is assumed that
each active UE generates a rate of 20 Service Requests per busy hour.
With 20 Service Requests per busy hour and user and 0.5 Mio active users that
MME would have 10 Mio Service Requests per busy hour. These are around 2800
Service Request procedures per second. The UE Initiated Service Request
procedure has 5 messages belonging to 3 messaging events, i.e. there are about
8400 Service Request related messaging events per second for that MME during a
busy hour.
With about 50 octets per signalling message it is about 4.2 Mbit/s each for
S1-MME and S11, together 8.4 Mbit/s of signalling traffic for idle to active
transition of UEs between eNB or SGW and the pooled MME.
It is for further study whether the assumed 20 Service Requests per UE and
busy hour imply usage of URA_PCH.
### 5.1.2 System enhancements
Enhancements may need to be considered to diminish the signalling traffic
drawbacks of the pooled deployment of MMEs.
A potential system enhancement is to enable the SGW for handling Service
Request procedures without always involving the MME, which may be done as
typically all parameters from the earlier S1 connection apply also for the
subsequent Service Request. The SGW may store that parameters for handling
subsequent Service Requests without involving the MME. Thereby the signalling
traffic estimated in the traffic model above may be reduced. For this the SGW
needs additional functionality to store parameters required for establishing
the S1 connection. More evaluations or also study by SA3 is required when the
SGW needs to be enabled to manage security parameters. This because any idle
to active transaction includes some security procedures. Depending on the
approach this may impact the eNBs.
Another possible solution is to enhance the handling of the connected mode by
the RAN, basically to extend the connection time and reduce signalling traffic
thereby. Such approaches are under discussion in RAN groups.
### 5.1.3 Evaluation
The pooled deployment of MMEs is supported by already defined standards. Any
potential optimisations for reducing the signalling traffic, that may run long
distance with such deployments, need further study.
Concerns were raised for the Service Request change proposal excluding the MME
and having the SGW to store the information to be used for the subsequent
Service Requests. The SGW needs to support new protocols such as SCTP, S1-AP
and NAS, if trying to avoid impacts for eNB.
## 5.2 Scenario: Energy efficient node utilization through load re-
distribution during off-peak times
### 5.2.1 Scenario description
In this deployment scenario it is assumed that the operator has configured
pools of MMEs and/or S-GWs to serve the EUTRAN. These resource pools are
typically dimensioned for peak loads. This means that the number of user plane
gateways (e.g. S-GW and P-GW) and control plane entities (e.g. MME) deployed
and operated are dimensioned according to the maximum number of UEs and their
traffic demand.
However, given that most of the time, the load in the network is far from the
dimensioned peak rate, plus the fact that during certain times (e.g. night
hours), the network load is rather low, operators can expect significant
energy saving opportunities through switching unnecessary core network
resources/nodes to energy conservation mode when they are not needed.
#### 5.2.1.1 Achievable Energy Savings through load concentration during off-
peak times
According to the typical daily traffic load variation taken from TR 32.826
(illustrated in Figure 5.2-1, left side), an estimation of the average
utilization of the network capacity can be derived (illustrated in Figure
5.2-1, right side). The result shows approx. 60% under-utilization of capacity
on average. Assuming that a typical day has a busy hour traffic curve well
below the expectable \"worst case\" busy hour traffic overall (i.e. over the
year, including special days and events, for which the NW would generally have
to be dimensioned), it can be conclude that at a minimum 2/3 of the core NW
capacity is not utilized over in average.
Figure 5.2-1: Typical daily traffic load variation (left) and estimation of
average network load (right)
Figure 5.2-2 (top part) illustrates a simplified energy consumption curve for
typical network nodes implementations. It consists of the following parts:
1) zero-load energy consumption (i.e. the minimum power drain whenever the
node is turned on);
2) linear increase of the energy consumption as the load increases (up to 100%
load).
Based on that model, Figure 5.2-2 shows the estimated energy saving factor
that can be achieved through load concentration during off-peak times,
depending on the overall system load (given in percentage on the abscissa).
The set of curves refer to different zero-load energy consumptions of network
elements. E.g. for network elements with a 25% zero-load energy consumption of
a network node (5th curve from the bottom) at 20% overall system load leads to
a potential for energy saving through load concentration of 100%.
Figure 5.2-2: Estimation of energy saving factor through load concentration
during off-peak times
The graph shows that the potential for energy saving depends on the design of
network elements. For network elements that have a small zero-load energy
consumption and support energy efficiency by design, the energy saving gains
that can be achieved through load concentration during off-peak times are low,
while for network elements with a medium-to-high zero-load energy consumption,
the achievable energy saving gains are significant.
### 5.2.2 System enhancements
In order to allow energy savings by switching unnecessary core network
resources/nodes to energy conservation mode during off-peak times, load re-
distribution mechanisms are needed that allow the network to move
users/sessions from underutilized core network nodes (e.g. P-GW, S-GW, MME) to
other nodes.
#### 5.2.2.1 General
Energy efficient node utilization can be achieved by means of node internal
process optimizations or through load re-distribution according to the
following basic steps:
1\. Decision to switch unnecessary core network nodes to energy conservation
mode: This can be controlled/triggered via the operator's O&M system.
2\. Adjustment of the node selection: This ensures that a node which has been
selected for suspension mode will not be considered by the node selection
function until further notice.
3\. Re-distribution of load: This involves execution of load re-distribution
procedures, which allows a node in suspension mode to shift its load to one or
more alternative nodes that run in normal mode.
4\. Switch to energy conservation mode: Once the load of a node in suspension
mode has been re-distributed, the node can be switched to energy conservation
mode.
#### 5.2.2.2 Node Selection Adjustment Procedures
##### 5.2.2.2.1 Serving GW and PDN GW Selection
The PDN GW and Serving GW selection functions are used, according to clauses
4.3.8.1 and 4.3.8.2 of TS 23.401 [2] respectively, with the extension that
gateway nodes operating in suspension mode are not considered.
The MME may be informed about the operational status of the nodes (i.e. normal
mode or suspension mode) in one of the following ways:
\- through O&M, or
\- based on DNS.
#### 5.2.2.3 Load Redistribution Procedures
##### 5.2.2.3.1 Serving GW
Once a Serving GW has been selected for suspension mode, the following
behaviour is expected:
\- For idle mode UEs connected to that S-GW, the MME will upon receipt of a
Tracking Area Update execute the Tracking Area Update with Serving GW change
procedure (according to clause 5.3.3.1 of TS 23.401 [2]), i.e. UEs will be
moved to another S-GW that operates in normal mode.
\- For active mode UEs, the MME load re-balancing procedures as defined in
clause 4.3.7.3 of TS 23.401 [2] can be used with the assumption that the MME
will select another S-GW for the UE during the TAU procedures. Alternatively,
a new S-GW relocation procedure can be defined.
##### 5.2.2.3.2 PDN GW
Once a PDN GW has been selected for suspension mode, the following behaviour
is expected:
\- For idle mode UEs connected to that P-GW, the MME will deactivate in a
scheduled manner the impacted PDN connections indicating \"reactivation
requested\" as specified in clause 5.10.3 of TS 23.401 [2]. If all of the PDN
connections of a UE need to be relocated, the MME may initiate the \"explicit
detach with reattach required\" procedure as specified in clause 5.3.8.3 of TS
23.401 [2], i.e. UEs will be moved to another P-GW that operators in normal
mode.
Editor\'s note: The handling of active mode UEs is for further study.
##### 5.2.2.3.3 MME
Once a MME has been selected for suspension mode (e.g. triggered via the
operator\'s O&M system), the following behaviour is expected:
\- The MME notifies all eNBs in the service area about its mode change.
\- For idle mode UEs served by that MME, any subsequent Tracking Area Update
will be redirected to an MME running in normal mode based on existing eNB
procedures. The target MME will then execute the default Tracking Area Update
with MME change procedure (according to clause 5.3.3 of TS 23.401 [2]).
\- For active mode UEs, either the MME load re-balancing procedure as defined
in clause 4.3.7.3 of TS 23.401 [2] can be used, or a new MME relocation
procedure can be defined. Additional signalling would be required to the UE if
the procedure in clause 4.3.7.3 of TS 23.401 [2] is executed.
##### 5.2.2.3.4 eNB
After the eNB has received from the MME the notification that the mode of the
MME has changed to \"suspended\", it sets the target percentage for load on
this MME to zero.
### 5.2.3 Evaluation
The energy saving potential through load re-distribution depends crucially on
the zero load power consumption of a particular network node implementation.
When the zero load power consumption of a network element is low, the gains
that could be achieved through this mechanism may not be justified. However,
for network elements that are not implemented in an energy efficient manner,
the possible energy saving gains are significant.
The necessary enhancements for MME and SGW load re-distribution have not been
fully analysed for active mode UEs. Also, the potential impacts on RAN have
not been investigated for active mode UEs.
Potential drawbacks of the proposed solution described in clause 5.2.2 are:
\- There is a possibility of increased signalling load, consuming additional
energy, in the event of failure of a concentrated node which is acting as a
single point of failure. An example is a failure of an MME causing increased
signalling from a new MME in an energy conserved mode.
\- Another limitation of the proposal to move UEs when switching core network
nodes to/from energy conservation mode is that such load re-distribution in
itself results in increased transmission efforts.
## 5.3 Scenario: Energy Efficiency by Network Sharing
### 5.3.1 Scenario description
The scenarios described here use the network sharing features for gaining
energy efficiency.
In rural areas with lower dense of population PLMNs may need to provide
coverage. However already the minimum configuration may provide more resources
than actually needed. For such scenarios it can be advantageous when different
PLMNs share network resources for covering such areas with low traffic.
In urban areas each PLMN may need its own capacity to serve the urban area.
However when the capacity per site is scalable, e.g. in number of sectors or
frequencies, then sharing may also help to improve energy efficiency as the
combined traffic of multiple PLMNs should have a lower variance than the
traffic of each individual PLMN. Therefore the maximum peak capacity per
shared site could be lower.
Another variant is to share dynamically. During the time of the day with high
traffic the PLMNs may want to use their own capacity and coverage. During the
time of the day with low traffic every single PLMN may need only low capacity.
The sharing may be done only during the low traffic time.
### 5.3.2 System enhancements
The scenarios with static sharing don\'t provide any new system or signalling
specifics and may be accomplished by configuring already specified network
sharing features.
The more dynamic sharing may need enhancements of the procedures that enable
energy saving by inter-RAN-node mechanisms for use with multiple PLMNs.
### 5.3.3 Evaluation
Network sharing features as already specified may be deployed for gaining
energy efficiency without any need for modifying or enhancing that sharing
features. Enhanced sharing features like described above may be considered
during the definition of inter- or intra-RAT energy saving. Basically it would
need to be enabled for inter-PLMN scenarios.
The use of such sharing approaches may depend on regional, legal or licence
conditions that may determine permission or obligations for network sharing in
general.
The variant of dynamic sharing may cause peaks in signalling traffic during
the change between sharing and non-sharing configurations.
## 5.4 Scenario: Energy Efficiency by Scheduled Communications
### 5.4.1 Scenario description
RAN developed approaches with inter-RAT energy saving. There may be however
devices that are single RAT, e.g. some devices for machine type
communications. Those devices cannot move to another RAT, but may need to
communicate only during regular intervals, like considered under time
controlled communications for MTC.
So far there is no feature \"time controlled\" specified for MTC or otherwise.
It may be however assumed that the network could determine whether in some
area there are only such single RAT devices that do not need to communicate.
Or that have only low priority. The scheduling of deactivating a RAT may be
supported by the knowledge about business hours for an industrial or office
area/building. So devices that are less important, e.g. that serve some
appliances, may lose communications. More mission critical devices may be
assumed to have multi-RAT capabilities.
### 5.4.2 System enhancements
A scheduled RAT switch-off/on may happen controlled by O&M without any system
enhancements needed. This approach may be improved by the network determining
whether there are only low priority or other single-RAT devices that tolerate
a RAT switch-off. For time controlled devices the time-control information may
needs to be aligned with the switch-off period. Preferably the indication is
by the RAT, e.g. a broadcast indication of the switch-off time so that e.g.
time-controlled MTC devices can schedule their transmissions accordingly.
### 5.4.3 Evaluation
As it is not considered in the scope of this study to define such
communications feature or change UE behaviour the usage of this deployment
scenario depends on the introduction of scheduled communications like studied
under M2M scenarios. When such a feature will be defined it should be
considered to also enabling its applicability for energy efficiency purposes.
Legal obligations might prevent switching off RATs, e.g. due to potential
emergency services.
# 6 Conclusions
The work on this study for identifying energy efficient deployment scenarios
was launched in the beginning of 2011. Despite the limited time available to
this study a few energy efficient deployment scenarios have been identified
and evaluated. The following general conclusions can be derived from the work
and the related discussions:
Approaches with no or only small system enhancements or modifications
typically yield only small efficiency gains. Potentially more promising larger
gains typically depend on enhancements or modifications with deeper system
impacts. Larger system modifications require also bigger changes to deployed
systems.
It was not possible during the study period to derive quantitative metrics for
measuring the gains of approaches for improved energy efficiency as the base
figures of energy consumptions are largely determined by the specific product
implementations. The study concludes that features that are designed for load
or network sharing, like pooling of core network nodes, can be deployed also
for energy efficiency purposes. The efficiency is gained mainly from better
scaling granularity, e.g. less needs for over-provisioning, and from sharing
base functionality, like power supply or other site equipment, which reduces
also base power consumption.
As a conclusion we may determine that it seems more promising to consider
energy efficiency or also resource efficiency during the design of any new
feature or functionality, e.g. with regard to required storage, signalling or
processing resources. Larger effects may be obtained when designing a new
system. Hence energy efficiency should be one of the main system design
guidelines.
#