# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the scope of the feasibility study
for P4C.
This Technical Report addresses stage 2 study for the Evolved Packet System
(EPS) to facilitate policy and charging control in the fixed broadband access
network in the convergent scenario where a single operator is deploying both
the fixed broadband access network and the Evolved Packet Core (EPC).
The scope of this TR is to consider the convergent scenario where the PCRF
controls directly the network element(s) in the fixed broadband access without
the mediation of a different policy server, such as the BPCF defined in TS
23.139 [20].
The work in this TR takes the fixed broadband accesses as specified by
BroadBand Forum as a reference. This does not preclude the applicability of
the solutions described in this TR to other types of fixed broadband accesses.
This TR will address policy and charging control for:
\- Traffic to/from fixed devices connected to the fixed broadband access
network (e.g. PC, IPTV Set top Box).
\- Traffic exchanged by 3GPP UEs connected via WLAN or H(e)NB when both the
fixed broadband access network and the EPC are under the control of the EPS
operator.
The work is organized in the building blocks and this TR address the Building
block listed below, for an outline of the content of each building block
refers to clause 4:
\- BB1: Policy and Charging Control for supporting traffic from fixed
terminals and NSWO traffic from 3GPP UEs in fixed broadband access networks
(P4C-F).
\- BB3: Policy and Charging Control for 3GPP UEs connected to fixed broadband
access network via S2b and S2c reference points for EPC routed traffic
(P4C-S2bc).
\- BB4: Policy and Charging Control for EPC routed traffic over fixed
broadband access networks of 3GPP UEs connected via H(e)NB in convergent
scenarios (P4C-HeNB).
\- BB5: Policy and Charging Control for supporting Layer 2 traffic in fixed
broadband access network (P4C-FL2).
\- BB6: Policy and Charging Control for 3GPP UEs connected to fixed broadband
forum access networks as Trusted network in Convergence scenario (P4C-TC).
NOTE: The Building Block 2 P4C-TI is addressed in TR 23.839 [28].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"GPRS Enhancements for E-UTRAN Access\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.402: \"Architecture enhancements for Non-3GPP Accesses \".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and charging control architecture\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.278: \"Service requirements for the Evolved Packet System
(EPS)\".
[6] Broadband Forum WT-203: \"Interworking between Next Generation Fixed and
3GPP Wireless Access\" (work in progress).
[7] Broadband Forum TR-058: \"Multi-service Architecture and Framework
Requirements\" September 2003.
[8] Broadband Forum TR-101 \"Migration to Ethernet-based DSL Aggregation\"
April 2006.
[9] Broadband Forum WT-145: \"Multi-service Broadband Network Functional
Modules and Architecture\" work in progress.
[10] Broadband Forum WT-134: \"Policy Control Framework\" work in progress.
[11] 3GPP TS 29.274: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Evolved GPRS
Tunnelling Protocol (eGTP) for EPS\".
[12] BBF TR-092: \"Broadband Remote Access Server (BRAS) Requirements\".
[13] BBF TR-124: Issues 2 \"Functional Requirements for Broadband RG
Devices\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.234: \"3GPP system to Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
interworking\".
[15] Broadband Forum WT-146: \"Subscriber sessions\" work in progress.
[16] Broadband Forum WT-178: \"Multi-service Broadband Network Architecture
and Nodal Requirements \" work in progress.
[17] Broadband Forum WT-300: \"Converged Policy Management\" work in progress.
[18] Broadband Forum WT-291: \"Nodal Requirements for Interworking between
Next Generation Fixed and 3GPP Wireless Access\" work in progress.
[19] 3GPP TS 33.402: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE); Security
aspects of non-3GPP accesses\".
[20] 3GPP TS 23.139: \"3GPP system - fixed broadband access network
interworking; Stage 2\".
[21] 3GPP TS 23.335: \"User Data Convergence (UDC); Technical realization and
information flows; Stage 2\".
[22] Broadband Forum WT-144: \"Broadband Multi-Service Architecture &
Framework Requirements\".
[23] 3GPP TS 32.251: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Packet Switched (PS) domain charging\".
[24] IETF RFC 4006: \"Diameter Credit-Control Application\".
[25] 3GPP TS 32.240: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging architecture and principles\".
[26] 3GPP TS 32.296: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Online Charging System (OCS): Applications and interfaces.
[27] 3GPP TR 23.800: \"Study on Application Based Charging; Stage 2\".
[28] 3GPP TR 23.839: \"Support for BBF Accesses Interworking\".
[29] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**UE local IP address** is defined as: either the public IP address assigned
to the UE by the BBF domain in the no-NAT case, or the public IP address
assigned by the BBF domain to the NATed RG that is used for this UE.
**Non-seamless WLAN offload (NSWO)** is a capability of a UE supporting
routing specific IP flows over the WLAN access without traversing the EPC as
defined in clause 4.1.5 of TS 23.402 [3].
**EPC-routed:** User plane traffic that is routed via a PDN GW in EPC as part
of a PDN Connection. EPC-routed applies to non-roaming, roaming with traffic
home-routed and roaming with traffic local break-out cases.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ANDSF Access Network Discovery and Selection Function
BBF Broadband Forum
BRAS Broadband Remote Access Server
BNG Broadband Network Gateway
BPCF Broadband Policy Control Function
DSMIPv6 Dual-Stack MIPv6
EPC Evolved Packet Core
ePDG Evolved Packet Data Gateway
EPS Evolved Packet System
H‑ANDSF Home-ANDSF
MME Mobility Management Entity
NSWO Non-Seamless Wireless Offload
P‑GW PDN Gateway
PMIP/PMIPv6 Proxy Mobile IP version 6
RG Residential Gateway
S‑GW Serving GW
V‑ANDSF Visited-ANDSF
# 4 Building blocks
Editor\'s note: This clause describes the organisation of work in building
blocks with the corresponding description.
The architecture study for convergence scenario is planned to be performed
within five Building Blocks, with the scope for each BB described in the
following.
NOTE: The Building Block 2 P4C-TI is address in TR 23.839 [28].
## 4.1 Building Block 1 PCC for supporting traffic from fixed terminals and
NSWO traffic from 3GPP UEs
Editor\'s note: The text below is copied from the Work Item Description of
P4C-F.
This BB will focus on policy and charging control for:
\- Traffic to/from fixed devices.
\- NSWO traffic exchanged by 3GPP UEs connected to the fixed broadband access
via WLAN.
NOTE 1: Determining the definition of fixed device is within the scope of this
BB.
Specific objectives of this BB are to study and define:
\- The reference architecture for policy and charging control in the
convergent scenario.
\- Any required enhancements for 3GPP PCC to provide policies for IP traffic
exchanged by fixed devices in the fixed broadband access.
\- Any required enhancements to 3GPP PCC to provide policies NSWO traffic
exchanged by 3GPP UEs connected to the fixed broadband access via WLAN.
\- Architecture and requirements to provide charging for traffic exchanged by
fixed devices and NSWO traffic to/from 3GPP UEs in the following scenarios:
\- 3GPP PCC- Gy/Gz based charging with PCEF located in the fixed broadband
access network;
\- Traffic Detection Function (TDF)-based charging;
\- AAA-based charging as already specified for interworking scenario.
NOTE 2: All the above solutions will be studied and standardized as
alternative solutions for providing charging.
\- The subscription information for fixed devices (e.g. identifiers, maximum
subscribed bit rate, etc.) required for policy and charging control.
\- The usage of the SPR or UDR to store policy related subscription
information for fixed devices.
In this BB only policy and charging control for IP sessions will be
considered, while policy control and charging for Layer 2 VPNs will be
considered in P4C-FL2.
Policy control will address both dynamic and pre-provisioned policies in the
BNG.
NOTE 3: The identification of fixed device and/or fixed access session between
the RG and the BNG for the purpose of policy and charging control of the fixed
broadband access in the PCC architecture is an input expected from BBF to be
assessed considering the existing 3GPP system identifiers.
## 4.2 Building Block 3 PCC for 3GPP UE connected to fixed broadband access
networks via S2b and S2c reference points for EPC routed traffic
Editor\'s note: The text below is copied from the Work Item Description of
P4C-s2bc.
This Building Block will focus to provide stage 2 specifications for converged
policy management and charging for the convergent scenarios with traffic
routed to EPC for operators providing both 3GPP and fixed broadband access
network for following scenarios:
\- WLAN S2b: UE connects to WLAN/BBF with traffic routed to ePDG/PDN GW.
\- WLAN S2c (trusted): UE connects to WLAN/BBF with traffic routed to PDN GW
via s2c.
\- WLAN S2c (untrusted): UE connects to WLAN/BBF with traffic routed to PDN GW
through ePDG via S2c.
This BB will study and define any possible enhancement of 3GPP PCC for
supporting policy management for the resource allocation and the QoS
enforcement at the BBF access network for a 3GPP UE.
The traffic is EPC routed so accounting and charging is performed in 3GPP EPC
network.
The solution defined in BB 3 shall be compatible with the solution defined in
BB 1 (P4C-F) to ensure the consistent policy enforcement for the 3GPP UE
connecting to the EPC via S2b or S2c with the consideration that the NSWO may
have been be activated for the same UE as specified in BB 1.
## 4.3 Building Block 4 PCC for EPC routed traffic over fixed broadband access
networks of 3GPP UEs connected via H(e)NB
Editor\'s note: The text below is copied from the Work Item Description of
P4C-HeNB.
This Building Block will focus to provide stage 2 specifications for converged
policy management and charging for the scenarios with traffic routed to EPC
for operators providing both 3GPP and BBF accesses for the following scenario:
\- 3GPP UE connects to a H(e)NB, which is connected to the EPC via a fixed
broadband access network.
This BB will study and define any possible enhancement of 3GPP PCC for
supporting policy management for the resource allocation and the QoS
enforcement in the BBF access network for a 3GPP UE connected to a H(e)NB.
The traffic is EPC routed so accounting and charging is performed in 3GPP EPC
network.
## 4.4 Building Block 5 PCC for supporting Layer 2 traffic in fixed broadband
access networks
Editor\'s note: The text below is copied from the Work Item Description of
P4C-FL.
This Building Block will focus to provide stage 2 specifications to enhance
3GPP PCC for supporting policy and charging control in fixed broadband access
in the convergent scenario when single operator is deploying both fixed
broadband access and the Evolved Packet Core (EPC).
The scope is to support dynamic QoS for fixed access session associated with
layer 2 based sessions(, i.e. session identified by layer 2 identity, e.g.
VLAN Tag)
Specific objectives of this BB are to study and define:
\- Enhancements of the reference architecture, if needed, for policy and
charging control in the convergent scenario.
\- Any required enhancements to 3GPP PCC to provide policies for L2 traffic
exchanged in the fixed broadband access.
\- Enhancements of solutions to support AAA-based accounting for traffic
exchanged by fixed devices. The support of 3GPP PCC charging is not considered
in this release within the scope of this BB.
The activities performed under this BB will consider the result of other BBs
that are part of the P4C features if needed.
## 4.5 Building Block 6 PCC for 3GPP UE connected to fixed broadband access
networks via S2a reference point for EPC routed traffic
Editor\'s note: The text below is copied from the Work Item Description of
P4C-TC.
This Building Block will focus to provide stage 2 specifications for converged
policy management and charging for the scenarios with traffic routed to EPC
for operators providing both 3GPP and fixed broadband access network for 3GPP
UE connecting to Trusted WLAN access network supporting S2a towards PDN GW.
This BB will consider the architecture defined in TS 23.402 [3] clause 16\.
Both GTP and PMIP protocol variants for S2a will be considered.
This BB will study and define any possible enhancement of 3GPP PCC for
supporting policy management for the resource allocation and the QoS
enforcement for a 3GPP UE.
The work in this BB will be carried out taking the fixed broadband accesses as
specified by BroadBand Forum as a reference. This BB will identify additional
deployment scenarios. However, the architecture will be designed in a way to
be also applicable to these deployment scenarios.
The traffic is EPC routed so accounting and charging is performed in 3GPP EPC
network.
The solution defined in BB 4 shall be compatible with the solution defined in
BB 4 (P4C-F) to ensure the consistent policy enforcement for the 3GPP UE
connecting to the EPC via S2a with the consideration that the NSWO may have
been be activated for the same UE as specified in BB 4.
As S2a traffic is EPC routed, charging is performed in 3GPP EPC. The support
of accounting by the TWAN is out of scope of this WID.
The charging aspects for EPC access via TWAN are thus about to define:
\- whether any user charging related information is missing that needs to be
transferred to PDN GW/OCS/OFCS;
\- a solution to provide the EPC (i.e. PDN GW) with the necessary user
charging related information.
# 5 Building Block 1: PCC for supporting traffic from fixed terminals and NSWO
traffic from 3GPP UEs
Editor\'s note: This clause will contain items being part of Building Block I
P4C_F.
## 5.1 Key issues
Editor\'s note: This clause will identify the key issues for Building Block I.
### 5.1.1 Key Issue #1: Relation between IP-CAN session over Gxd and fixed
subscriber session/NSWO
Considering QoS control for fixed subscriber session and NSWO traffic of 3GPP
UE in bridge mode and routed mode (with and without NAT) RG configuration
following questions need to be addressed:
\- The number of IP-CAN sessions associated with a given fixed subscriber
session.
\- Whether different PCRFs or a single PCRF are in control of IP-CAN
session(s).
\- The mapping between IP-CAN session and fixed subscriber session traffic
and/or NSWO traffic from 3GPP UE.
#### 5.1.1.1 Solution Alternative 1
This clause describes single IP-CAN session over Gxd reference point for fixed
subscriber session and NSWO traffic for 3GPP UEs.
Figure 5.1.1.1-1: Architecture of single IP-CAN session over Gxd reference
point
In the routed RG mode, there are typically multiple 3GPP UEs associated with a
single fixed subscriber session in the BBF network. The fixed subscriber
session is per RG in the BBF network and the relationship between fixed
subscriber session and RG is one-to-one, while the relationship between such
fixed subscriber session and UEs behind the RG is one-to-multiple. All the
traffic from 3GPP UEs are transported within the same fixed subscriber
session. The IP address can be assigned to the 3GPP UE by the IP Edge or by
the RG.
The successful establishment of an fixed subscriber session shall trigger and
indication of IP-CAN session establishment over Gxd to request PCC rules. For
3GPP UEs, the same IP-CAN session shall be used for provisioning PCC rules in
the IP Edge.
Editor\'s note: How the IP Edge identifies the 3GPP UE behind the RG is FFS.
Different PCRFs will be selected to control the same IP-CAN session for the RG
and 3GPP UEs. For fixed subscriber session, PCRF will be selected based on the
Line ID. For 3GPP UE, the PCRF will be selected based on Subscriber id and ID
of NSWO-APN by the PCRF handling the fixed subscriber session. As illustrated
in Figure 5.1.1.1-1, the PCRF terminating on Gxd reference point will be
selected for fixed subscriber session and the other one will be selected for
NSWO traffic of 3GPP UE. The PCRF handling fixed subscriber session and the
PCRF handling 3GPP UE need to interact with each other to provision PCC rules
for the 3GPP UE. When the PCC rules for 3GPP UE changed (e.g. triggered by AF
or TDF), the PCC rules for fixed subscriber session may also need to be
updated.
Editor\'s note: How the PCRF handling the fixed subscriber session identifies
and interacts with the PCRF handling NSWO traffic of 3GPP UE is FFS.
In the bridge RG mode, different IP addresses will be assigned to 3GPP UEs and
Fixed Devices by IP Edge, and separate IP-CAN sessions shall be established
for fixed subscriber session and NSWO traffic for 3GPP UEs.
#### 5.1.1.2 Alternative Solution 2: One to one relation: IP-CAN session and
IP Subscriber session
##### 5.1.1.2.1 General
This solution alternative proposes to provide policy and charging control for
the UE IP address that is known at the PCEF, i.e. all UEs behind a NAT have
the same IP-CAN session in the PCEF. In addition, for those services that
request resource reservation over Rx, policy and charging control in the PCEF
is possible for a given service using PCC Rules provisioned by PCRF in PCEF.
In this solution a UE may be either a 3GPP UE or a fixed device.
For fixed devices, the PCEF is located in the IP Edge. For 3GPP UE in NSWO the
PCEF is located in the IP Edge.
The IP Edge has an IP-CAN session per UE behind the RG in both bridge and
routed mode with no NAT. The IP Edge has an IP-CAN session for the RG in
routed mode with NAT.
##### 5.1.1.2.2 Definition of an IP-CAN Session in the BBF domain
A \"Fixed Broadband Access IP-CAN\" is a fixed access broadband network that
provides IP connectivity. The Fixed Broadband Access IP-CAN reuses the
definition of an IP-CAN session in TS 23.203 [4].
NOTE: In the context of Fixed Broadband Access, the term UE is device (i.e.
fixed device or 3GPP UE or the RG) that allows the user to access the IP
connectivity services provided by the network.
In a Fixed Broadband Access an IP-CAN session corresponds to an IP subscriber
session defined in WT-146 [15].
As defined in TS 23.203 [4], the association between the UE and an IP network
is identified by an IP address(es), UE identity information (if available) and
a PDN represented by a PDN-id. For those accesses that support IP-CAN bearers,
there may be multiple IP-CAN bearers. For Fixed Broadband Access, the IP-CAN
session can also be identified primarily by an IP address(es). The term UE
corresponds to the device that access the services provided by the network
(i.e. either RG, or 3GPP UE or fixed end-device), the PDN identifies the IP
network where the device gets connectivity and the UE identity information may
be the circuit-id (if available) although other identities may be used.
Editor\'s note: The definition and applicability of PDN ID for fixed
subscriber session is FFS.
DSCP marking provides QoS support on transport network layer so that it can be
assumed that there is support for multiple IP-CAN bearers for the purpose to
provide QoS and charging.
##### 5.1.1.2.3 IP-CAN Session in the PCEF
This solution proposes that there is an IP-CAN session per IP address known in
the PCEF only. This means that there is:
\- an IP-CAN session for the IP address assigned to the RG in the routed mode
with NAT and
\- an IP-CAN session for the IP address assigned to the end device (i.e. fixed
device or 3GPP UE) in the bridge mode and routed mode with no NAT.
For the purpose to provide policy and charging control, PCC Rules contains SDF
templates that include the IP address known in the PCEF.
For services (AF) that request resource reservation over Rx, this information
is dynamically provided using Rx interface and allows providing both policy
control and charging for the traffic generated by that UE. This solution is
under the condition that:
a) The AF supports an Rx interface and
b) The AF can provide the NATed IP address and ports used by the UE (for IMS,
according to TS 23.228 [29]).
NOTE: When the above conditions are not met, there are no standardized means
as for now to identify a UE behind a NATed-RG.
##### 5.1.1.2.3.1 Policy and Charging Control for the IP-CAN session in the
PCEF. {#policy-and-charging-control-for-the-ip-can-session-in-the-pcef. .H6}
Over Gxd, the PCEF announce the IP-CAN session establishment to the PCRF
including, the IP address known by the PCEF, the identity of the UE associated
in the PCEF with this IP address and a PDN-id, if available. There is a 1:1
relation between the IP-CAN session in the PCEF and in the PCRF. There is also
a single subscriber in SPR/UDR per IP-CAN session, this is either the UE
identity that identities the RG or the end device.
##### 5.1.1.2.4 Procedures
Editor\'s note: This clause will identify the procedures for Policy and QoS in
TS 23.402 [3] and/or TS 23.203 [4] style for Building Block 1.
Editor\'s note: Charging/accounting interactions for all scenarios are FFS.
Editor\'s note: For all scenarios in this alternative solution, roaming
interaction has to be added to the flows (only update to the subscription
information scenario includes it for now).
##### 5.1.1.2.4.1 General Assumptions {#general-assumptions .H6}
For the dynamic QoS for the IP-CAN session the following requirements shall be
supported:
\- interaction between PCRF and PCEF at IP-CAN session establishment.
\- policy change requests originated from Applications Function after IP-CAN
session establishment.
\- policies apply to individual IP-CAN session.
\- policy evaluation may be triggered by the change in state of an IP-CAN
session.
In the RG NATed/routed mode there is a single RG IP subscriber session for all
devices connected to the RG (NAT case, routed mode) and thus a single Gxd
IP‑CAN session
In the case without NAT between the UE and the PCEF (e.g. RG in bridge mode)
the IP Edge/PCEF binds a UE IP subscriber session connected to the RG (no
NAT/bridged mode) with a Gxd IP-CAN session.
Editor\'s note: 3GPP AAA interactions for 3GPP UE authentication are not shown
in the message flows.
##### 5.1.1.2.4.2 IP-CAN Session Establishment {#ip-can-session-establishment
.H6}
This clause describes the signalling flow for Gxd IP CAN Session
establishment. The session is initiated after that the IP Edge becomes aware
of an IPv4 address and/or an IPv6 prefix has been assigned to the fixed device
and/or 3GPP UE.
NOTE 1: In bridge mode, the session is initiated after the device has been
authenticated according to BBF specifications (i.e. out of scope of 3GPP) or
after that 3GPP UE performs 3GPP EAP-based authentication and has been
assigned an IPv4 address and/or IPv6 Prefix.
NOTE 2: In route mode configuration with NATed RG, the session is initiated
after the RG has been connected to the network and has been assigned an IPv4
address and/or IPv6 Prefix. The IPv4 address and/or IPv6 Prefix is assigned
according to BBF specifications and it is out of scope of 3GPP.
Figure 5.1.1.2.4.2: Initial Attach
1\. A Fixed Broadband subscriber session is initiated by the device, (e.g. a
RG switches on, a 3GPP UE starts a session, etc.). When the device is not
acting as a 3GPP device, the BBF (e.g. access line) authentication is
performed as specified by BBF. Otherwise if the device is 3GPP UE the
authentication is performed as described in TS 23.402 [3]. As part of this
step, the BBF AAA may provide Default QoS to the IP Edge/PCEF. The IP
Edge/PCEF assigns an IP address (and/or an IPv6 prefix) for the Fixed
Broadband subscriber session. This step is BBF specific and as such out of
scope of this specification.
NOTE 1: In routed mode configuration with NAT, the authentication of any fixed
device or 3GPP UE in step 1 does not trigger any IP-CAN session establishment
procedure, since the IP-CAN session has been already established after RG
connected to the network.
2\. The IP Edge/PCEF sends an indication of the IP-CAN session establishment
to the PCRF. The message includes the subscription-ID if available , the
Access Line Identifier (physical and logical circuit ID), default QoS, if
available, the IP-CAN type, the IPv4 address and/or the IPv6 network prefix
and subscriber priority according to WT-134 [10] and WT-146 [15] requirements.
NOTE 2: For 3GPP UE the establishment indication of the IP-CAN session
establishment with the PCRF QoS may include the APN (i.e. NSWO-APN).
3\. The PCRF obtains the subscriber\'s profile related to the UE.
4\. The PCRF makes policy decision and derives PCC and ADC Rules. The PCRF may
change the default QoS of the subscriber it received from the PCEF. In this
step the PCRF sends the decision(s) to the IP Edge/PCEF. The PCRF may include
the following information: Default QoS, the PCC Rules and the Event Triggers
to report. The Event Triggers indicate to the IP Edge/PCEF what events must be
reported to the PCRF.
NOTE 3: The PCRF may override the default QoS received from the IP Edge/PCEF.
5 For the solicited application reporting, the PCRF establishes the session
with the TDF and provides ADC rules to the TDF.
Editor\'s note: Whether additional parameters in the PCC Rule are required for
the IP-CAN session is FFS.
6\. The PCRF provisions the PCC rules at the IP Edge/PCEF:
7\. This step is BBF specific. The IP Edge/PCEF may communicate with other
network elements in the BBF access network according to BBF specifications.
##### 5.1.1.2.4.3 PCRF Initiated IP-CAN Session Modification {#pcrf-initiated-
ip-can-session-modification .H6}
This clause is related to IP-CAN session modification for IP session initiated
by PCRF. The AF can be involved.
Figure 5.1.1.2.4.3: PCRF initiated IP-CAN Session Modification
1a. The AF requests QoS resource authorization. The request includes the
bandwidth requirements, media type, session priority and other information
according to TS 23.203 [4].
NOTE 1: In routed mode with NAT this procedure is applicable when AF request
QoS and charging for RG or for single device connected behind the NATed RG for
which the AF is providing the NATed IP address and ports used by the single
device (e.g. for IMS, according to TS 23.228 [29]).
1b. The SPR notifies the PCRF when the user\'s profile changes.
NOTE 2: In routed mode configuration with NAT the PCRF can be triggered by
step 1b only when user subscriber information for RG is updated.
1c. The same step as step 1b in TS 23.203 [4] procedure in clause 7.5.
NOTE 3: In routed mode with NAT the PCRF can be triggered by step 1c only when
TDF detects application exchanged with RG.
Alternatively, the PCRF may initiate this procedure based on PCRF internal
logic.
2\. The PCRF makes policy decisions and determines the QoS, ADC and PCC Rules
(e.g. QCI, UL/DL max/minimum or guaranteed Bitrate and priority for the
service) and the Event Triggers to report. The Event Triggers indicate to the
IP Edge/PCEF what events must be reported to the PCRF.
3\. The PCRF modifies the TDF session by sending the new/updated ADC Rules to
the TDF as step 5 in TS 23.203 [4] procedure in clause 7.5.
4\. The PCRF provisions the PCC rules at the IP Edge/PCEF.
5\. The IP Edge/PCEF responds with an acknowledgment.
6\. The IP Edge/PCEF enforces the PCC rules.
NOTE 1: How the IP Edge/PCEF performs QoS enforcement in the BBF is out of the
scope of 3GPP.
NOTE 2: The IP Edge/PCEF performs the mapping between the PCC rules and the
parameters specific in BBF network.
7\. BBF specific procedures may applies, e.g. the IP Edge/PCEF may communicate
with other entities in BBF access according to BBF specifications.
##### 5.1.1.2.4.4 IP Edge/PCEF Initiated IP-CAN Session Modification {#ip-
edgepcef-initiated-ip-can-session-modification .H6}
This clause is related to IP-CAN session modification initiated by IP
Edge/PCEF for IP session. The procedure is applicable when the IP Edge/PCEF
makes a decision to request a modification of PCC rules. The trigger to start
the modification procedure by IP Edge/PCEF can be a provisioned event-trigger
by the PCRF or a BBF specific trigger.
In routed mode with NAT, this procedure can be triggered when new device
connects to the LAN, for example when UE requests a local IP address to the RG
or when a UE disconnects from WLAN.
Figure 5.1.1.2.4.4: IP Edge/PCEF Initiated IP-CAN Session Modification
1\. The IP Edge/PCEF receives a trigger (e.g. from RG) or decides to modify an
IP-CAN session due e.g. to partial network failure, failure to enforce a PCC
rule or other BBF specific triggers according to BBF specification that are
out of scope of 3GPP.
NOTE: The triggers can be different in bridge mode configuration and in routed
mode configuration.
2\. The IP Edge/PCEF may initiate the session modification procedure based on
internal triggers or when event-triggers provisioned by the PCRF are detected.
The message includes the Event Report and affected PCC Rules.
3\. The PCRF makes policy decisions and may derive new or modified PCC rules.
Editor\'s note: Whether additional parameters in the PCC Rule are required for
the IP-CAN session is FFS.
4\. The PCRF provisions new/updated ADC Rules at the TDF as defined in steps
11 and 12 of TS 23.203 [4] procedure in clause 7.3.2.
5 The PCRF provisions PCC rules at the IP Edge/PCEF.
6\. The IP Edge/PCEF enforces the PCC rules.
7\. BBF specific procedures may apply, e.g. the IP Edge/PCEF may communicate
with other entities in BBF access according to BBF specifications.
NOTE 1: How the IP Edge/PCEF performs PCC rules enforcement in the BBF is out
of the scope of 3GPP.
NOTE 2: The IP Edge/PCEF performs the mapping between the PCC rules and the
parameters specific in BBF network. This mapping is out of scope of 3GPP.
##### 5.1.1.2.4.5 IP Edge/PCEF initiated IP-CAN Termination {#ip-edgepcef-
initiated-ip-can-termination .H6}
This clause is related to termination of the IP-CAN session by IP Edge/PCEF.
The procedure is applicable when IP session is terminated. The trigger to
start the termination by IP Edge/PCEF is BBF specific (e.g. RG switch off,
PPPoE session termination, etc) and out of the scope of 3GPP.
In routed mode configuration with NAT this procedure is applicable only when
IP session from RG is terminated, e.g. when RG switches off or when IP address
assigned to WLAN IP interface is released, etc. The termination of connection
from a device in LAN, e.g when device releases the local IP address or it
disconnects from WLAN does not trigger the IP-CAN session termination for IP
session from RG.
Figure 5.1.1.2.5: IP Edge/PCEF Initiated IP-CAN Session Termination
1\. The IP Edge/PCEF receives a request to terminate the session with the PCRF
based on BBF triggers (both either external and internal to the IP Edge/PCEF)
for example due to termination of session, power off of RG, etc as defined by
BBF specifications.
NOTE: How the IP Edge/PCEF detects or is informed that BBF access session is
terminated is BBF specific and is out of the scope of 3GPP.
2\. The IP Edge/PCEF initiate the indication of IP-CAN Session termination
procedure.
3\. The PCRF identifies the affected PCC rules.
4\. The PCRF notifies the AF about loss of transmission.
5 The PCRF terminates the session with the TDF as defined in steps 10 and 11
of TS 23.203 [4] procedure in clause 7.3.1.
6\. The PCRF acknowledges the termination of the session.
##### 5.1.1.2.4.6 Update of the subscription information in the PCRF {#update-
of-the-subscription-information-in-the-pcrf .H6}
In routed mode with NAT this procedure is applicable only if profile
information related to RG has been changed.
Figure 5.1.1.2.4.6: Update of the subscription information in the PCRF
1 The SPR detects that the subscriber\'s profile changed.
Editor\'s note: Enhancements to the subscriber profile for BBF access is FFS.
2 The SPR notifies the PCRF of the profile change provided if the PCRF has
subscribed to such notification event(s).
3 The PCRF responds to the SPR notification message.
4 The PCRF stores the updated profile.
5 The PCRF identifies the rules affected and derives new/modified ones.
6 The PCRF initiates the IP-CAN Session Modification procedure according to
clause 5.1.1.2.4.3 if the BBF access or 3GPP UEs are affected.
#### 5.1.1.3 Alternative 3: Multiple IP-CAN session for Fixed Subscriber
Session and NWSO 3GPP UE
Editor\'s note: This clause will identify the requirements and assumptions for
convergent Policy QoS and charging for Fixed Subscriber Session and WLAN UE
NSWO.
##### 5.1.1.3.1 General
The PCEF located in the IP Edge binds the Fixed Subscriber Session with the
IP-CAN session on Gxd reference point.
For Routed mode RG without NAT, an IP-CAN session shall be established for the
fixed subscriber session. The IP-CAN session is established by the IP Edge
when the RG accesses the fixed broadband network. The IP Edge sends the IP
address of RG to the PCRF, as well as the access line ID as identification
information of the RG. For each 3GPP UE using NSWO to access the fixed access
network, IP-CAN session will also be established. The IP Edge obtains the 3GGP
UE IMSI via successful 3GPP-based access authentication procedure. When the IP
address is allocated by the RG, there shouldn\'t be overlap between the
address pools of the RGs connecting to the same IP Edge. The IP Edge sends the
IMSI, which is learnt via authentication, and the IP address of the UE to the
PCRF. It is assumed that IP Edge is the AAA proxy or AAA client for EAP-based
authentication support as defined in BBF WT-146 [15].
In case of RG configured in routed mode with or without NAT there is a single
Fixed Subscriber Session for all N3GPP User Equipments connected to the RG. In
this scenario there is an IP-CAN session for the Fixed subscriber session and
one separate IP-CAN session for NSWO traffic for each 3GPP UE which performs
3GPP EAP-based authentication.
This alternative assumes that for fixed device connected behind a RG in routed
mode a single IP-CAN session is used for all devices.
Editor\'s note: How the IP-CAN session for 3GPP UE relates to the IP-CAN
session for fixed subscriber session is FFS.
Editor\'s note: Whether the IP-CAN session definition needs to be enhanced for
this scenario is FFS.
For Bridge mode RG, there is one IP-CAN session for each single IP session,
i.e. one per fixed subscriber session and one per each 3GPP UE performing
NSWO. Fixed devices and 3GPP UEs behind the RG can be recognized and allocated
an IP address by the IP Edge. The IP Edge establishes IP-CAN session when a
fixed device/3GPP UE accesses to the fixed broadband network. The IP address
information sent to PCRF is the IP address allocated by the IP Edge. The
identification information for 3GPP UE is IMSI. The multiple IP-CAN sessions
are independent from each other.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS what kind of identification information is used for
fixed subscriber session.
NOTE: In the case of a routed mode RG behind a bridge RG, it\'s the same as
Routed RG case in the perspective of QoS control over Gxd.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS how the IP edge can identify flow belonging to the
NSWO UE in NATed RG.
##### 5.1.1.3.2 IP-CAN Session Establishment
This clause describes the signalling flow for IP‑CAN Session establishment
over Gxd. The session is initiated after the fixed subscriber session is
established and the IP address has been assigned as defined in BBF
specifications for BBF defined network. The procedure for authentication of
fixed subscriber session is out of 3GPP scope.
The roaming scenario is not applicable for the Fixed subscriber session.
Editor\'s note: The steps related to accounting and charging data collection
for AAA-based, PCC-based and TDF-based are FFS and not shown in the diagram
flow.
##### 5.1.1.3.2.1 Bridged RG with fixed device or 3GPP UE attachment
{#bridged-rg-with-fixed-device-or-3gpp-ue-attachment .H6}
This clause describes the signalling flow for Gxd IP‑CAN Session establishment
in the case of RG acting as bridge mode. The session is initiated after the
N3GPP device or 3GPP UE has been authenticated and assigned a Local IP
Address. The authentication procedure for the N3GPP device is based on BBF
specifications that out of scope in 3GPP.
Figure 5.1.1.3.2-1: IP-CAN session establishment procedure for RG operating in
Bridge mode
1\. The Fixed Device (e.g. PC, IPTV) or the 3GPP UE accesses to the network.
1a. The Fixed Device accesses to the network and performs authentication. The
access authentication is performed as specified by BBF. As part of this step,
the BBF AAA may provide Default QoS to the IP Edge. The IP Edge assigns a
Local IP address to the N3GPP Device. This step is BBF specific and as such
out of scope of this specification.
1b. the 3GPP UE accesses to the network and performs authentication. The
default QoS of the 3GPP UE is returned during the authentication. The IP Edge
assigns a Local IP address to the 3GPP UE.
2\. The IP Edge/PCEF triggers the establishment of the IP-CAN session over Gxd
for the Fixed Subscriber Session or for the NSWO traffic of the 3GPP UE with
the PCRF. The message includes the Subscriber-ID (e.g. the Fixed device ID,
3GPP UE IMSI, circuit ID), the Local IP address, default QoS, the IP-CAN type.
3\. The PCRF obtains the subscriber\'s profile related to the fixed subscriber
session and 3GPP UE from the SPR/UDR.
Editor\'s note: Enhancement to the subscriber profile in SPR/UDR for fixed
subscriber session is FFS.
4\. The PCRF makes policy decision and derives PCC rules. The PCRF may change
the default QoS of the fixed subscriber session or of 3GPP UE which is
received from the IP Edge/PCEF.
5\. For the solicited application reporting, the PCRF requests the TDF to
establish the relevant session towards PCRF and provides ADC rules to the TDF.
6\. The PCRF provides the PCC rules to the IP Edge/PCEF. In this step the PCRF
may include the following information: Default QoS, the PCC Rules and the
Event Triggers to report. The Event Triggers indicate to the IP Edge/PCEF what
events must be reported to the PCRF.
7\. The IP Edge/PCEF performs admission control and resource allocation based
on PCC rules. The IP Edge may also communicate with other network elements in
the BBF access network according to BBF specifications and is out of scope of
3GPP.
Editor\'s note: Whether additional parameters are required for BBF access
session is FFS.
##### 5.1.1.3.2.2 Routed RG {#routed-rg .H6}
This clause describes the signalling flow for Gxd IP‑CAN Session establishment
in the case of RG operating as routed mode. The session is initiated when RG
attaches to the network. The authentication procedure for fixed subscriber
session is based on BBF specifications that out of scope in 3GPP.
Figure 5.1.1.3.2-2: IP-CAN session establishment procedure for RG operating in
Routed mode
1\. The Routed RG accesses to the network and performs BBF access
authentication. The BBF AAA returns the default QoS for the Fixed Subscriber
Session of the Routed-RG to the IP Edge. The IP Edge assigns a Local IP
address to the RG. This step is BBF specific and as such out of scope of this
specification.
2\. The IP Edge/PCEF triggers the establishment of the IP-CAN session over Gxd
for the Fixed Subscriber Session of the Routed-RG with the PCRF. The message
includes Subscriber-ID (e.g. Circuit ID), the RG Local IP address, default QoS
for the fixed access session.
Editor\'s note: The specific Subscriber ID information used is FFS.
3\. The PCRF obtains the subscriber\'s profile related to the RG from the
SPR/UDR.
Editor\'s note: Enhancement to the subscriber profile in SPR/UDR for fixed
devices and fixed access line is FFS.
4\. The PCRF makes policy decision and derives PCC rules. The PCRF may change
the default QoS of the subscriber which is received from the IP Edge/PCEF.
5\. For the solicited application reporting, the PCRF requests the TDF to
establish the relevant session towards PCRF and provides ADC rules to the TDF.
6\. The PCRF provides the PCC rules at the IP Edge/PCEF. In this step the PCRF
may include the following information: Default QoS, the PCC Rules and the
Event Triggers to report. The Event Triggers indicate to the IP Edge/PCEF what
events must be reported to the PCRF.
7\. The IP Edge/PCEF **performs admission control and resource allocation
based on thePCC rules.**
Editor\'s note: Whether additional parameters are required for BBF access
session is FFS.
##### 5.1.1.3.2.3 Routed RG with 3GPP UE performs 3GPP-based authentication
{#routed-rg-with-3gpp-ue-performs-3gpp-based-authentication .H6}
This clause describes the signalling flow for Gxd IP‑CAN Session establishment
in the case of RG acting as routed mode and 3GPP UE performs 3GPP-based
authentication. The session is initiated when RG and 3GPP UE accesses to the
network.
Figure 5.1.1.3.2-3: IP-CAN session establishment procedure RG operating in
routed with 3GPP UE performing authentication
1\. The Routed RG accesses to the network and performs access authentication.
The BBF AAA returns the default QoS for the Fixed Subscriber Session of the
Routed-RG to the IP Edge. The IP Edge assigns a Local IP address to the RG.
This step is BBF specific and as such out of scope of this specification.
2\. The IP Edge/PCEF triggers the establishment of the IP-CAN session over Gxd
for the Fixed Subscriber Session of the Routed-RG with the PCRF. The message
includes Subscriber-ID(e.g. the RG ID, Circuit ID), the RG Local IP address,
default QoS for the fixed access session.
3\. The PCRF obtains the subscriber\'s profile related to the RG from the
SPR/UDR.
Editor\'s note: Enhancement to the subscriber profile in SPR/UDR for fixed
devices and fixed access line is FFS.
4\. The PCRF makes policy decision and derives PCC rules. The PCRF may change
the default QoS of the subscriber which is received from the IP Edge/PCEF.
5\. For the solicited application reporting, the PCRF requests the TDF to
establish the relevant session for the RG towards PCRF and provides ADC rules
to the TDF.
6\. The PCRF provides the PCC rules at the IP Edge/PCEF. In this step the PCRF
may include the following information: Default QoS, the PCC Rules and the
Event Triggers to report. The Event Triggers indicate to the IP Edge/PCEF what
events must be reported to the PCRF.
The following steps 8-16 are IP-CAN session establishment for the 3GPP UE in
case that RG acts as Routed mode and the BBF device supports 3GPP-based
authentication.
7\. When 3GPP UE access to the network via the Routed-RG, if the RG supports
3GPP-based authentication, the authentication procedure is performed in 3GPP
UE, RG, IP Edge, BBF AAA and 3GPP AAA.. After successful authentication,
default QoS for the 3GPP UE is returned to the IP Edge.
8\. The IP Edge/PCEF triggers the establishment of the IP-CAN session over Gxd
for the NSWO traffic of the 3GPP UE with the PCRF. The message includes the
Subscriber-ID (e.g. 3GPP UE IMSI, Circuit ID) , the UE Local IP address, the
UDP port for RG in routed mode with NAT, default QoS, the IP-CAN type.
9\. The PCRF obtains the subscriber\'s profile related to the 3GPP UE from the
SPR/UDR.
10\. The PCRF makes policy decision and derives PCC rules for the NSWO traffic
based on the subscription of the 3GPP UE. The PCRF may change the default QoS
of the subscriber which is received from the IP Edge/PCEF.
11\. For the solicited application reporting, the PCRF requests the TDF to
establish the relevant session for the 3GPP UE towards PCRF and provides ADC
rules to the TDF.
12\. The PCRF provides the PCC rules at the IP Edge/PCEF. In this step the
PCRF may include the following information: Default QoS, the PCC Rules and the
Event Triggers to report. The Event Triggers indicate to the IP Edge/PCEF what
events must be reported to the PCRF.
13\. The IP Edge shall bind the IP-CAN session for the NSWO traffic of 3GPP UE
to the Subscriber Session of Routed-RG based on the UE Local IP address. The
IP Edge/PCEF **performs admission control and resource allocation based on the
default QoS of RG when PCRF provides the PCC rules for the Fixed Devices
and/or NSWO traffic of 3GPP UE to the IP Edge/PCEF.** The IP Edge may also
communicate with other network elements in the BBF access network according to
BBF specifications and is out of scope of 3GPP.
Editor\'s note: Whether additional parameters are required for BBF access
session is FFS.
NOTE 1: How the IP Edge performs QoS enforcement in fixed broadband network is
out of the scope of 3GPP and in case of BBF defined network is specified by
BBF.
NOTE 2: The IP Edge performs the mapping between the QoS rules and the
parameters specific in BBF network.
##### 5.1.1.3.3 PCRF Initiated IP-CAN Session Modification
This procedure is applicable when the PCRF initiated an IP-CAN session
modification initiated by PCRF for Fixed Subscriber Session for N3GPP User
equipment to provision new PCC/ADC Rules or modify PCC/ADC rules over Gxd/Sd
interfaces for traffic from N3GPP User Equipment in the Fixed Broadband
Access. The AF can be involved.
The roaming scenario is not applicable for the Fixed Subscriber Session.
Editor\'s note: The steps related to accounting and charging data collection
for AAA-based, PCC-based and TDF-based are FFS and not shown in the diagram
flow.
Figure 5.1.1.3.3-1: PCRF initiated IP-CAN Session Modification
1a. The AF requests QoS resource authorization. The request includes the
bandwidth requirements, media type, session priority and other information
according to TS 23.203 [4].
1b. The SPR notifies the PCRF when the user\'s profile changes.
1c The same step as step 1b in TS 23.203 [4] procedure in clause 7.5
Alternatively, the PCRF may initiate this procedure based on PCRF internal
logic.
2a, 2b. The PCRF for non-roaming cases or the V-PCRF for roaming cases makes
the authorization and policy decision.
3\. The PCRF modifies the TDF session by sending the new/updated ADC Rules to
the TDF as step 5 in TS 23.203 [4]procedure in clause 7.5.
4 the PCRF sends the Policy and Charging Rules provision to the PCEF located
in the IP edge. The PCRF may include the following information: the QoS Rules
and the Event Triggers to report. The Event Triggers indicate to the IP
Edge(PCEF) what events must be reported to the PCRF.
Editor\'s note: Whether additional information is required in IP-CAN session
modification message, it is FFS.
5\. The IP edge enforces the PCC rules in the fixed broadband network.
NOTE 1: How the IP Edge performs QoS enforcement in fixed broadband network is
out of the scope of 3GPP and in case of BBF defined network is specified by
BBF.
NOTE 2: The IP Edge performs the mapping between the QoS rules and the
parameters specific in BBF network.
6\. PCEF responds with an acknowledgment.
7.a. If the AF requested it, the PCRF notifies the AF (e.g. transmission
resources are established/released/lost).
7.b. The AF acknowledges the notification from the PCRF.
##### 5.1.1.3.4 PCEF Initiated IP-CAN Session Modification
The procedure is applicable for N3GPP User Equipment when the IP Edge(PCEF)
makes a decision to request a modification of QoS rules. The trigger to start
the modification procedure by PCEF can be a provisioned event-trigger by the
PCRF or a BBF specific trigger. This procedure is applicable for the cases in
Bridged RG, Routed RG and Routed RG 3GPP UE performs 3GPP-based
authentication.
The roaming scenario is not applicable for the Fixed subscriber session.
Editor\'s note: The steps related to accounting and charging data collection
for AAA-based, PCC-based and TDF-based are FFS and not shown in the diagram
flow.
Figure 5.1.1.3.4-1: PCEF-initiated IP-CAN Session Modification
The IP Edge(PCEF) may receive a trigger to modify an QoS for Fixed Subscriber
session, for example due to partial network failure or other specific
triggers.
Editor\'s note: The list of applicable even triggers from TS 23.203 [4] plus
additional BBF specific event-triggers is FFS.
2\. The IP Edge(PCEF) initiates the session modification procedure either
caused by previous step or based on internal decision.
3 The PCEF send the Indication of IP-CAN session modification to the PCRF. The
message includes the Event Report, affected QoS Rules, Subscription ID.
Editor\'s note: The detailed list of parameters applicable to Fixed Subscriber
session and to NSWO included in the message request is FFS.
4\. The PCRF makes policy decisions and derives new or modified PCC rules.
5\. The PCRF provisions new/updated ADC Rules at the TDF as defined in steps
11 and 12 of TS 23.203 [4] procedure in clause 7.3.2.
6\. The PCRF provisions QoS rules at the PCEF.
Editor\'s note: The detailed list of parameters applicable to Fixed Subscriber
session and to NSWO included in the message request is FFS.
7\. The IP edge enforces the PCC rules on the fixed broadband network.
NOTE 1: How the IP Edge performs QoS enforcement in fixed broadband network is
out of the scope of 3GPP and in case of BBF defined network is specified by
BBF.
NOTE 2: The IP Edge performs the mapping between the QoS rules and the
parameters specific in BBF network.
8\. The PCEF may respond to the session modification trigger according to BBF
specification.
9.a. If the AF requested it, the PCRF notifies the AF (e.g. transmission
resources are established/released/lost).
9.b. The AF acknowledges the notification from the PCRF.
##### 5.1.1.3.5 PCEF initiated IP-CAN Termination
The procedure is applicable when PCEF initiated the termination of the IP-CAN
session. The detection of session termination by IP Edge/PECF is BBF specific
(e.g. RG switch off, PPPoE session termination, etc). This procedure is
applicable for the cases in Bridged RG, Routed RG and Routed RG 3GPP UE
performs 3GPP-based authentication.
The roaming scenario is not applicable for the Fixed subscriber session.
Editor\'s note: The steps related to accounting and charging data collection
for AAA-based, PCC-based and TDF-based are FFS and not shown in the diagram
flow.
Figure 5.1.1.3.5-1: PCEF Initiated IP-CAN Session Termination
1\. The PCEF may receive a request to terminate the IP-CAN session with the
PCRF based on triggers specific of the fixed broadband network (both external
and internal to the IP Edge) for example due to termination of fixed
subscriber session, power off of RG, etc.
Editor\'s note: The list of applicable even triggers from TS 23.203 [4] plus
additional BBF specific event-triggers is FFS.
NOTE 1: How the IP Edge detects or is informed that fixed subscriber session
and/or 3GPP UE connection is terminated is BBF specific and is out of the
scope of 3GPP.
2\. The IP Edge (PCEF) initiates the IP-CAN Session termination procedure and
provides the relevant information to the PCRF.
Editor\'s note: The detailed list of parameters applicable to Fixed Subscriber
session and to NSWO included in the message request is FFS.
3\. The PCRF identifies the affected rules.
4\. The PCRF notify the AF that there are no transmission resources for the
service, if this is requested by the AF.
5\. The AF acknowledges the notification of loss of transmission.
6\. The IP Edge(PCEF) removes the PCC rules associated with the IP-CAN
session.
7\. The PCRF terminates the session with the TDF as defined in steps 10 and 11
of TS 23.203 [4] procedure in clause 7.3.1.
8\. The PCRF acknowledges IP-CAN session termination.
9\. The PCRF sends a cancellation notification request to the SPR if it has
subscribed such notification.
NOTE 2: Step 7 may be initiated any time after step 5.
10\. The SPR sends a response to the PCRF.
##### 5.1.1.3.6 Update of the subscription information in the PCRF
The procedure is applicable when subscriber profile information are modified
in SPR
The roaming scenario is not applicable for the Fixed subscriber session.
Figure 5.1.1.3.6-1: Update of the subscription information in the PCRF
1) The SPR detects that the subscriber\'s profile changed.
Editor\'s note: Enhancements to the subscriber profile for BBF access is FFS.
2) The SPR notifies the PCRF of the profile change provided the PCRF
subscribes to notification event(s).
3) The PCRF responds to the SPR notification message.
4) The PCRF stores the updated profile.
5) The PCRF indentifies the rules affected and derives new/modified ones.
6) The PCRF initiates the IP-CAN Session Modification procedure as defined in
clause 5.1.1.y.2.
### 5.1.2 Evaluation of solutions for Key Issue #1
Three different solutions for key issue #1 are captured above. Two of the
solutions (solution 1 and solution 3) require that the IP Edge can identify
traffic from devices (3GPP UEs or fixed devices) behind a routed mode RG with
NAT. Although a solution for this requirement is being discussed in BBF and
IETF, it is not clear when such a solution may become available. Furthermore,
solutions 1 and 3 will have impact to fundamental PCC concepts (e.g. the IP-
CAN session definition).
Solution 2 assumes that only the Subscriber IP Session in the IP Edge is
identified. The solution does not rely on means for the IP Edge to identify
devices behind a routed mode RG with NAT. However, the solution 2 supports
limited QoS control for fixed devices and for offloaded traffic from 3GPP UEs
behind the RG. In particular, subscriber based PCC policies for devices behind
a NAT cannot be provided. Policy control for dynamic services (Rx based) can
however be provided in certain scenarios also for the devices behind the NAT,
e.g. using similar techniques as in IMS.
### 5.1.3 Conclusion on Key Issue #1
Solution Alternative 2 to key issue #1 is chosen as the basis for the
solutions to progress the study work in this Building Block.
## 5.2 Architectural requirements and assumptions
General assumptions:
\- The definition of AAA functionality for authentication of the fixed access
line (access line authentication) or fixed access session (e.g. PPPoE or IP
Session) is out of scope of 3GPP.
\- The authentication procedure of the Fixed Devices in a BBF access network
is performed according to BroadBand Forum specifications and is therefore
considered out of the scope of 3GPP.
\- The authentication procedure of a 3GPP UE connected to a fixed broadband
access network is defined by TS 33.402 [19].
General requirements:
\- PCRF shall control directly the IP Edge in the fixed broadband access
without the mediation of the BPCF defined in TS 23.139 [20].
\- 3GPP PCC shall support the enforcement of QoS policies for IP traffic
exchanged by fixed devices in the fixed broadband access.
\- 3GPP PCC shall support the enforcement of QoS policies of NSWO traffic
exchanged by 3GPP UEs connected to the fixed broadband access via WLAN.
\- Only policy and charging control for Subscriber IP sessions will be
considered, while policy control and charging for Layer 2 sessions is out of
the scope of BB1.
\- More than one fixed access Subscriber IP session (e.g. a PPPoE session) can
be supported per fixed access line (e.g. RG).
\- A device connected to the RG (e.g. VoIP phones) may also initiate a
Subscriber IP session when the RG is configured in bridge mode or when the PPP
pass-through feature is enabled on the Routing RG (see requirement R-10 in
TR-124 Issue 3 [13]).
\- The subscription information included in the user profile shall enable the
support of fixed devices (e.g. identifiers, maximum subscribed bit rate, etc.)
required for policy and charging control purposes.
\- The SPR or UDR stores subscription information related to policy control
for fixed devices and fixed access line for QoS and charging purposes.
\- Policy control will address both dynamic and pre-provisioned policies in
the IP Edge.
General architectural assumptions:
\- There is a direct interface between PCRF and IP Edge.
\- The IP Edge is the policy enforcement point for QoS in the fixed access
network.
NOTE 1: How the IP Edge performs policy enforcement and binding if Gxd
sessions with PPPoE or IP sessions in the BBF access is out of scope of 3GPP.
\- The IP-CAN session definition from TS 23.203 [4] apply also to Fixed
Broadband Access IP-CAN. In particular this implies:
\- There is an IP-CAN session with a corresponding Subscriber IP session on
the IP Edge per IPv4 address and/or IPv6 address or IPv6 prefix known in the
PCEF.
NOTE 2: For routed mode RG with NAT, there is one IP-CAN session with a
corresponding Subscriber IP session on the IP Edge for the IPv4 address and/or
IPv6 address or IPv6 prefix assigned to the RG
NOTE 3: In case of routed mode RG when the PPP pass-through feature is enabled
(see requirement R-10 in TR-124 Issue 3 [13]) there is an IP-CAN session for
the single fixed device starting the PPP session . In this case the 3GPP UE
does not have Subscriber IP session in IP Edge
NOTE 4: For bridged mode RG, there is one IP-CAN session with a corresponding
Subscriber IP session on the IP Edge for each IPv4 address and/or IPv6 address
or IPv6 prefix assigned to the fixed device or 3GPP UE which established a
Subscriber IP session in fixed broadband network.
NOTE 5: For routed mode RG with IPv6 when stateless IPv6 address
autoconfiguration is used by the end-device behind the RG, there is one IP-CAN
session with a corresponding Subscriber IP session on the IP Edge for the IPv6
prefix assigned to the RG. When stateful IPv6 address configuration is used by
the end-devices, there may be scenarios for one IP-CAN session per end-device.
There may be scenarios for one Subscriber IP session on the IP Edge with a
corresponding IP-CAN session per end-device.
\- Per IP-CAN session there is a single subscriber in SPR/UDR. This is the UE
identity that identifies the RG, the 3GPP UE or the fixed device.
NOTE 6: The identification information for 3GPP UE is the IMSI.
NOTE 7: For routed mode RG, the successful completion of 3GPP-based access
authentication and assignment of IP address to the 3GPP UE does not result in
any IP-CAN session establishment if the IP address assignment does not result
in a new Subscriber IP Session in the IP Edge. In this case the pre-existent
IP-CAN session for the RG is used. More considerations with respect to a
routed mode RG can be referred to Annex A.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS whether there will be support in this Building Block
to identify, in the PCC framework, end-user devices behind a routed mode RG.
\- The IP Edge shall be able to enforce policies and to perform the
appropriate mapping from QoS parameters it receives from the PCRF to BBF
specific parameters.
\- It shall be possible to apply QoS control on a per service data flow basis
in the PCEF located in IP Edge according to TS 23.203 [4] requirements
\- The PCEF located in IP Edge shall be able to detect event triggers
provisioned by the PCRF.
\- Upon detection of an event, the PCEF located in IP Edge shall request
policy rules re-authorisation from the PCRF.
Editor\'s note: The list of applicable even triggers from TS 23.203 [4] plus
additional BBF specific event-triggers is FFS.
Architectural assumptions for \"Default QoS policy\".
\- The BBF AAA may provide a default Access Profile QoS for the subscriber IP
session that may contain QoS information. If TDF is deployed in the network
for application detection and control, then the 3GPP and BBF AAA shall be
configured in such a way that a default Access Profile QoS does not conflict
with the policies enforced by the TDF (e.g. bandwidth limitation which is part
of Access Profile QoS would be higher than any possible bandwidth limitation
value provided by the PCRF to the TDF for application detection and control).
\- The PCRF may provide the default QoS for the IP subscriber session. . If
TDF is deployed in the network for application detection and control, then the
PCRF shall configure policies in such a way that default QoS does not conflict
with the policies enforced by the TDF (e.g. the bandwidth limitation which is
part of default QoS would be higher than any possible bandwidth limitation
value provided by the PCRF to the TDF for application detection and control).
The default QoS consists of a QCI and MBR. The PCEF located in the IP Edge
shall be able to convert default QoS into Fixed Broadband Access QoS attribute
values. The PCRF may provide a default QoS profile name if the default QoS
profile is provisioned in the IP Edge/PCEF. In the IP Edge, the QCI is mapped
into a DSCP code value or other transport specific information element and the
MBR is used for bandwidth limitation for the DSCP code value.
\- The PCEF located in the IP Edge shall enforce the default QoS, as specified
above for both DSCP marking and bandwidth limitation, for all downlink and
uplink traffic for the IP subscriber session unless the packets match a
service data flow template in an active policy rule for which specific QoS
enforcement actions are provided.
Editor´s note: Whether or not dynamic prioritization of resource requests as
represented by the ARP will be performed by the PCEF and whether or not PCRF
will provisioned the ARP as part of the default QoS is under discussion in the
BBF.
Editor´s note: Whether Fixed Broadband parameters are also included as part of
the default QoS is FFS.
\- The architecture shall provide charging for traffic exchanged by fixed
devices and NSWO traffic to/from 3GPP UEs in the following scenarios:
\- 3GPP PCC- Gy/Gz based charging with PCEF located in the fixed broadband
access network;
\- Traffic Detection Function (TDF)-based charging;
\- AAA-based charging.
In this release of the specification, these charging options are mutually
exclusive i.e. for a given deployment only one of these charging options
applies. Exception is when PCEF and TDF perform both enforcement and charging
for the same subscriber session, see also NOTE 14 for the clarification when
this may be applicable.
NOTE 8: The charging option applicable in a given deployment is transparent
for the UE.
NOTE 9: No charging interaction between the HPLMN and the Fixed Broadband
Service Providers is possible when there is no IP-CAN session dedicated to a
3GPP UE in NSWO (e.g. the 3GPP UE is served by a RGW providing NAT).
NOTE 10: Inter operator settlements are assumed to ensure support of the case
of an UE receiving NSWO over a Fixed Broadband Access (FBA), when the HPLMN
and the FBA Service Provider are different.
For 3GPP PCC Gy/Gz- based and TDF-based charging there is one charging session
per IP-CAN session.
NOTE 11: The relationship between an IP-CAN session and a terminal served by a
Fixed Broadband access is detailed in NOTE 2 to NOTE 4.
NOTE 12: In case of AAA-based accounting the charging information send by PCRF
over Gxd are not taken into consideration for accounting purposes.
NOTE 13: The AAA-based accounting for fixed device is not applicable in
roaming scenario.
In this release in case of AAA-based charging the BBF AAA server is used for
performing accounting of fixed device as defined by BBF specifications TR-101
[8], WT-146 [15] .
For the charging session, the user identifier is the same that is issued over
the Gxd session
For any given UE IP-CAN session, either the IP Edge PCEF or the TDF shall be
performing charging and policy enforcement, but not both.
NOTE 14: An operator may also apply this solution with both PCEF and TDF
performing enforcement and charging for a single IP-CAN session as long as the
network is configured in such a way that the traffic charged and enforced in
the IP Edge PCEF does not overlap with the traffic charged and enforced by the
TDF. In addition, the DL APN-AMBR and any UL maximum bit rate enforcement for
the TDF session need to be configured with such high values that they don\'t
result in discarded packets.
Charging for SDFs belonging to real time services shall be performed at the IP
Edge PCEF.
NOTE 15: The definition of requirements for real time services in fixed
broadband network are defined in BBF TR-126 [x].
In case of TDF performing charging and policy enforcement, the functionality
supported over Gxd interface shall only include TDF address transfer to the
PCRF, usage monitoring control functionality, BBF IP-CAN Type reporting, event
triggers support for those event triggers which can be detected by the IP
Edge/PCEF.
In case of PCEF performing charging and policy enforcement, the functionality
supported over Sd interface shall only include application detection following
the rules received from the PCRF (without policy enforcement and charging
actions), usage monitoring control functionality for the detected
applications, Application START/STOP event triggers support with the
corresponding detected application information provided to the PCRF.
## 5.3 Reference architecture
Editor\'s Note: This clause describes common reference architecture for Policy
control and charging solution for Building Block 1.
This architecture supports the scenario of a single network operator deploying
both the 3GPP EPC and the BBF access network. Furthermore the architecture
supports the roaming scenario between two PLMN operators.
The architectures in the following figures show only entities and interfaces
that are in scope of the work and/or are impacted by BB 1.
In this release the BBF AAA server is used for fixed access session
authentication as defined by BBF specifications TR‑101 [8], WT-146 [15] and it
out of the 3GPP scope. The SWa/STa reference points are not applicable for
authentication of fixed devices.
The fixed device is only supported in non-roaming scenario.
The reference points internal to the Fixed Broadband access network are
defined or are under definition by Broadband Forum and are out of the scope of
this specification.
In non-roaming architecture shown in figures 5.3.1-1, 5.3.2-1 AND 5.3.3-1:
\- PCRF provisions PCC Rules to the PCEF located in the IP edge;
\- both a 3GPP UE and a fixed device may access IP services network, e.g.
internet, AF, etc.;
\- the AF may be located in the 3GPP HPLMN or in the 3rd Party IP network that
has agreements with HPLMN;
\- multiple TDFs may be deployed.
NOTE 1: The reference point between the IP Edge to the TDF in EPC does not
imply that the NSWO and Fixed traffic is EPC routed.
The following assumptions are made for non-roaming architecture regarding
functionality in the BBF Access Network:
\- the BBF network routes the offloaded traffic subject to packet inspection
and the offloaded traffic not subject to packet inspection via the same TDF;
or
\- the BBF network may be configured in such a way that the traffic determined
to be subject to packet inspection is routed via the TDF. Traffic that is not
subject to for packet inspection may physically bypass the TDF.
Editor\'s note: The support of differentiating routing handling for the
traffic is subjected for packet inspection and the traffic not subjected for
packet inspection by BBF access network requires further study in Broadband
Forum.
In roaming architecture shown in figures 5.3.1-2, 5.3.2-2 and 5.3.3-2:
\- V-PCRF provisions PCC Rules to the PCEF located in the IP edge;
\- the AF may be located in the 3GPP HPLMN or external IP network;
\- both a 3GPP UE and a fixed device may access IP services network, e.g.
internet, AF etc.;
\- the TDF function, if present, is located in the 3GPP VPLMN;
\- multiple TDFs may be deployed.
NOTE 2: The reference point between the IP Edge and the TDF in EPC does not
imply that the NSWO and Fixed traffic are EPC routed.
The following assumptions are made for roaming scenario regarding
functionality in the BBF Access Network:
\- the BBF network routes the offloaded traffic subject to packet inspection
and the offloaded traffic not subject to packet inspection via the same TDF
located in VPLMN; or
\- the BBF network may be configured in such a way that the traffic determined
to be subject to packet inspection is routed via the TDF in VPLMN. Traffic
that is not subject to for packet inspection may physically bypass the TDF.
Editor\'s note: The support of differentiating routing handling for the
traffic is subjected for packet inspection and the traffic not subjected for
packet inspection by BBF access network requires further study in Broadband
Forum.
### 5.3.1 Reference architecture for Policy Control and TDF based charging
Editor\'s note: This clause describes reference architecture which includes
both QoS handling and TDF based charging solution.
Figure 5.3.1.-1: Non-roaming architecture for policy Control and TDF based
charging for traffic exchanged by fixed devices and NSWO traffic to/from 3GPP
UEs
In this architecture:
\- PCRF provisions ADC rules to the TDF over Sd interface or to the enhanced
IP Edge PCEF over Gxd for application detection and control and charging
control of 3GPP UEs\' offloaded traffic and of fixed device traffic.
Editor\'s note: The assumption that IP Edge PCEF can be enhanced with ADC must
be verified with BBF.
Figure 5.3.1.-2: Roaming architecture for policy control and TDF based
charging for NSWO traffic to/from 3GPP UEs
In this architecture:
\- V-PCRF provisions ADC rules to the TDF over Sd interface or to the enhanced
IP Edge PCEF over Gxd for application detection and control and charging
control of 3GPP UEs\' offloaded traffic.
\- When UDC architecture is used, SPR and Sp, wherever mentioned in this
document, can be replaced by UDR and Ud.
NOTE: Either SPR or UDR is used in this architecture.
Editor\'s note: The assumption that IP Edge PCEF can be enhanced with ADC must
be verified with BBF.
### 5.3.2 Reference architecture for policy control and 3GPP PCC- Gy/Gz based
charging with PCEF located in the fixed broadband access network
Editor\'s note: This clause describes reference architecture which includes
both QoS and Gy/Gz based charging solution with PCEF located in the fixed
broadband access network.
Figure 5.3.2-1: Non-roaming architecture for policy control and with 3GPP PCC-
Gy/Gz based charging with PCEF located in the fixed broadband access network
In this architecture:
\- PCRF provisions PCC rules to the PCEF in the IP Edge over Gxd interface for
policy and charging control of 3GPP UEs\' offloaded traffic and of fixed
device traffic.
Figure 5.3.2-2: Roaming architecture for policy control and 3GPP PCC- Gy/Gz
based charging with PCEF located in the fixed broadband access network
In this architecture:
\- V-PCRF provisions PCC rules to PCEF in the IP Edge over Gxd interface for
policy and charging control of 3GPP UEs\' offloaded traffic.
### 5.3.3 Reference architecture for policy control and AAA based charging for
traffic exchanged by fixed devices and NSWO traffic to/from 3GPP UEs
This clause describes reference architecture which includes both Policy
Control and AAA based charging solution.
Figure 5.3.3-1: Non roaming architecture for policy control and AAA based
charging using RADIUS/Diameter Accounting signalling for traffic exchanged by
fixed devices and NSWO traffic to/from 3GPP UEs
Figure 5.3.3-2: Roaming architecture for policy control and AAA based charging
using RADIUS/Diameter Accounting signalling for NSWO traffic to/from 3GPP UEs
In this architecture:
\- the B reference point transfers accounting information related to the Fixed
device and to the NSWO 3GPP UE from the IP Edge to the BBF AAA server.
\- the accounting for Fixed device is not applicable in roaming scenario.
\- the Accounting Interworking Function collocated or not with the BBF AAA
interacts with both the OCS and/or the OFCS.
## 5.4 Reference points
The reference point Rx, SWd are defined in TS 23.203 [4].
**Gxd** For the purpose of convergence between 3GPP and BBF network it
transfers PCC rules and usage monitoring from the Home PCRF to the PCEF in the
IP Edge in non-roaming scenario and from the Visited PCRF to the IP Edge in
roaming scenario.
**Sd** The functionality is defined in TS 23.203 [4], including usage
monitoring support over Sd. For the TDF based charging outlined in the clause
5.3.1.2.1, the Sd reference point additionally enables transfer of the
charging policies from the H-PCRF and the V-PCRF to the TDF.
**SWa** For the purpose of convergence between 3GPP and BBF network it
transports the authentication, authorisation n for the 3GPP UE in a secure
manner.
**STa** For the purpose of convergence between 3GPP and BBF network it
transports the authentication, authorisation for the 3GPP UE in a secure
manner.
**Sp** For the purpose of convergence between 3GPP and BBF network it
transfers User profile information from SPR to PCRF.
**Ud** For the purpose of convergence between 3GPP and BBF network it
transfers User profile information from UDR to PCRF.
**Gyd** For the purpose of convergence between 3GPP and BBF network it
transfers Charging information from the PCEF in IP Edge to the OCS in Home
network
**Gzd** For the purpose of convergence between 3GPP and BBF network it
transfers charging information from the PCEF in IP Edge to the OFCS in Home
network in non-roaming scenario and in Visited network in roaming scenario
**Gyt** For the purpose of convergence between 3GPP and BBF network it
transfers Charging information from the TDF to the OCS in Home network in non-
roaming scenario and in Visited network in roaming scenario
**Gzt** For the purpose of convergence between 3GPP and BBF network it
transfers Charging information from the TDF to the OFCS in Home network in
non-roaming scenario and in Visited network in roaming scenario
**S9** For the purpose of convergence between 3GPP and BBF for 3GPP UE roaming
it transfers PCC rules from the Home PCRF to the V-PCRF. This reference point
if not applicable for Fixed device.
**B** For the purpose of convergence between 3GPP and BBF network it
transports the authentication, authorisation and accounting information for
the Fixed device and for the Non-Seamless WLAN offloaded traffic. The
definition of this reference point is out of the scope of 3GPP.
**Gya** For the purpose of convergence between 3GPP and BBF network it
transfers Charging information from the Accounting Interworking function in
the BBF defined network to the OCS in Home network.
**Gza** For the purpose of convergence between 3GPP and BBF network it
transfers charging information from the Accounting Interworking function in
the BBF defined network to the OFCS in Home network in non-roaming scenario
and in the Visited network in roaming scenario.
**Sy** It enables the transfers of policy counters and its status from OCS to
PCRF for the purpose of policy decisions. The functionality is defined in TS
23.203 [4]. Policy counters and its status may be defined for both 3GPP UEs
and fixed devices.
The Reference points within the BBF access network are defined in BBF TR‑058
[7], BBF TR‑101 [8], BBF WT‑145 [9] and BBF WT‑134 [10] and they are
considered out of the scope of 3GPP. Any enhancement of reference points
within the BBF access network for supporting convergence scenario is out of
the scope of 3GPP.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS whether S9 requires enhancements for supporting BBF
convergent scenario.
### 5.4.1 Gxd Reference Point
The Gxd reference point resides between the PCEF in the IP edge and the PCRF.
The Gxd reference point enables a PCRF to have dynamic control over the PCC
behaviour at a PCEF in the IP Edge.
The Gxd reference point enables the transfer of QoS policies from the Home
PCRF to the PCEF in IP Edge in non‑roaming scenario for fixed device and for
NSWO offload traffic, and from the Visited PCRF to the PCEF in roaming
scenario for the NSWO traffic
The Gxd interface supports both the PUSH and PULL model.
The Gxd reference point enables the signalling of PCC decision and it supports
the following functions:
\- Request for PCC decision from PCEF in the IP Edge to PCRF.
\- Provision of PCC decision from PCRF to PCEF in the IP Edge.
\- Termination of Gxd session by PCEF in the IP Edge or PCRF.
\- Install events triggers at the PCEF in the IP Edge and notify the PCRF when
the PCEF detects an event.
A PCC decision consists of zero or more PCC rule(s) and IP CAN attributes.
For the 3GPP PCC Gyd/Gzd based charging with PCEF located in the fixed
broadband access network described in clause 5.3.2 the Gxd reference point
enables the transfer of charging policies from the Home PCRF and V-PCRF in
roaming to the PCEF in IP Edge.
### 5.4.2 SWa Reference Point
The same extensions defined in TS 23.139 [20], clause 5.2 for NSWO are
applicable. The reference point is not applicable for authentication of fixed
device and fixed session.
### 5.4.3 STa Reference Point
The same extensions defined in TS 23.139 [20], clause 5.2 for NSWO are
applicable. The reference point is not applicable for authentication of fixed
device and fixed session.
### 5.4.4 Sp Reference Point
The Sp reference point is defined in TS 23.203 [4].
The Sp reference point lies between the SPR and the PCRF and is defined in TS
23.203 [4], clause 5.2.3.1.
The Sp reference point allows the PCRF to request subscription information
related to the IP CAN transport level policies from the SPR based on a
subscriber ID of the RG, fixed BBF device and the 3GPP WLAN UE NSWO.
Editor\'s note: The enhancement of Sp for supporting fixed device for QoS
purpose (e.g. subscriber information related to fixed device or line) is FFS.
### 5.4.5 Ud Reference Point
The Ud reference point is defined in TS 23.203 [4], clause 5.2.3.2 and
provides the same functionality as the Sp described in clause 5.4.4 in this
TR.
### 5.4.6 Gza Reference Point
This reference point is applicable in case of supporting the AAA-based
charging solution.
The Gza reference point is located between Accounting Interworking function in
the BBF defined network and the 3GPP offline charging system OFCS located in
the VPLMN (roaming scenario) or HPLMN (non-roaming scenario) and it transports
charging information for 3GPP UE.
The Gza reference point is located between the Accounting Interworking
function in the BBF defined network BBF AAA Server and the 3GPP offline
charging system located in the HPLMN (non-roaming scenario) and it transports
charging information for fixed device.
NOTE 1: Gza is not applicable to roaming scenario for fixed device
NOTE 2: The study and definition of Gza reference point and diagram flows for
supporting AAA-based charging is outside the scope of this TR and left to SA5
for further consideration.
### 5.4.7 B Reference Point
The B reference point supports authentication and authorisation for fixed
device as define in BBF TR‑101 [8], BBF TR‑144 [22] and BBF WT‑146 [15]. The
Reference point and the procedure for authentication of fixed device and fixed
session are out of the scope of 3GPP.
In cased of AAA-based charging solution this reference interface supports
accounting for fixed devices and for NSWO 3GPP UE. The requirements for
accounting for fixed device are defined in BBF TR‑101 [8], BBF TR‑144 [22] and
BBF WT‑146 [15].
The support of charging management on B reference point is outside the scope
of this Release and the enhancement of B Reference point is outside the 3GPP
scope. Limited online charging is supported based on accounting capability on
B reference point (e.g. support of RADIUS protocol).
NOTE: The definition of this reference point is out of the scope of 3GPP.
Editor's note: Whether this reference point needs to be enhanced for
supporting specific information for 3GPP UE scenario is outside the scope of
this TR.
### 5.4.8 Gyd/Gzd Reference Point
These reference points are applicable in case of supporting the alternative
for 3GPP PCC- Gy/Gz based charging from the PCEF located in IP Edge as defined
in the clause 5.3.2.
In this case the following requirements are applicable:
\- The Gyd reference point resides between the OCS and the PCEF located in IP
Edge.
\- The Gyd reference point allows online credit control for service data flow
based charging for both NSWO from 3GPP UE and Fixed device.
\- The Gzd reference point resides between the PCEF located in IP Edge and the
OFCS.
\- The Gzd reference point enables transport of service data flow based
offline charging information for both NSWO from 3GPP UE and Fixed device.
The functionalities required across the Gyd reference point are similar to Gy
as defined in TS 32.251 [23].
The functionalities required across the Gzd reference point are similar to Gz
as defined in TS 32.251 [23].
NOTE: The detailed specification of Gyd and Gzd interfaces is outside the
scope of this TR and it is left for consideration to 3GPP SA WG5.
### 5.4.9 Gyt/Gzt Reference Point
These reference points are applicable in case of supporting the alternative
for TDF based charging from the TDF as defined in the clause 5.3.1.
In this case the following requirements are applicable:
\- The Gyt reference point resides between the OCS and the TDF.
\- The Gyt reference point allows online credit control for TDF based charging
for both NSWO from 3GPP UE and Fixed device.
\- The Gzt reference point resides between the TDF and the OFCS.
\- The Gzt reference point enables transport of offline charging information
for both NSWO from 3GPP UE and Fixed device.
NOTE The detailed specification of Gyt and Gzt interfaces is outside the scope
of this TR and it is left for consideration to 3GPP SA5.
### 5.4.10 S9 Reference Point
The S9 reference point resides between the PCRF in Visited network and in Home
network PCRF. The details of the S9 reference point are described as describe
in TS 23.203 [4].
### 5.4.11 Gya Reference Point
This reference point is applicable in case of supporting the AAA-based
charging solution.
The Gya reference point is located between the Accounting Interworking
function in the BBF defined Access Network and the 3GPP online charging system
OCS located in the HPLMN and it transports charging information for 3GPP UE.
The Gya reference point is located between the Accounting Interworking
function in the BBF defined Access Network and the 3GPP online charging system
located in the HPLMN and it transports charging information for fixed device.
NOTE 1: Gya is not applicable to roaming scenario for fixed device.
NOTE 2: The study and definition of Gya reference point and diagram flows for
supporting AAA-based charging is outside the scope of this TR and left to SA5
for further consideration.
## 5.5 Network elements
The 3GPP network elements are defined in details in TS 23.401 [2], TS 23.402
[3] and TS 23.203 [4].
### 5.5.1 PCRF
The PCRF functionality defined in TS 23.203 [4] shall apply for Fixed device
and for non-seamless WLAN offloaded traffic from 3GPPP UE connected via
Broadband Fixed Access network with the following modifications:
\- PCRF shall interact with the PCEF in the IP Edge over Gxd interface for PCC
control in the Fixed Broadband Access Network.
\- PCRF shall be able to modify and send back to PCEF the Default-QoS received
by IP Edge during IP-CAN session establishment
Additionally, to support TDF based charging as described in clause 5.3.1, the
PCRF shall:
\- Send ADC Rules including charging parameters to the TDF over Sd interface
for TDF based charging control of offloaded 3GPP UEs\' traffic and/or of fixed
access session\'s traffic.
### 5.5.2 IP Edge
The IP Edge is network element in the fixed broadband access network
controlled by network operator capable of hosting an IP Session. This can be a
BNG in the context of BBF TR-101 [8] or a BRAS in the context of BBF TR-59
[X].
The IP Edge implements the PCEF functionalities defined in TS 23.203 [4] as
specified in BBF WT-300 [17].
Specifically, the IP Edge for convergence purpose:
\- Receives from the PCRF the PCC rules for QoS control in the Fixed Broadband
Access network.
\- Requests the PCC rules to the PCRF for QoS control in the Fixed Broadband
Access network.
\- Enforces the PCC rules in the Fixed Broadband Access network and performs
the appropriate mapping between 3GPP QoS parameters and BBF specific QoS
parameters.
Editor\'s note: The usage of ARP is still under discussion in BBF.
Editor\'s note: Additional QoS specific parameters for fixed line use cases
may be further provided by BBF.
\- Provides provide the Default QoS rules when initiating the IP-CAN session
establishment over Gxd for the 3GPP UE with NSWO traffic or fixed device,
\- Provides the Subscription ID defined in clause 5.8 when initiating the IP-
CAN session establishment over Gxd or the 3GPP UE with NSWO or fixed device.
\- Perform admission control in fixed access or delegates admission control
decision to other BBF nodes. Based on the admission control, the IP Edge
accepts or rejects the request received over Gxd.
NOTE 1: The definition of Admission Control functionality in BBF network is
out of the scope of 3GPP.
NOTE 2: How the IP Edge performs QoS enforcement in the BBF access and mapping
between 3GPP QoS parameters and BBF specific parameters is out of scope of
3GPP.
\- Performs the appropriate mapping between the BBF specific QoS parameters
included in the Default-Access profile received by the IP Edge and the 3GPP
QoS parameters included in the Default-QoS.
NOTE 3: Which BBE NE provides the access-default entity and how the default-
access profile is delivered to IP Edge is out of scope.
\- Sends and receives the Default-QoS to/from the PCRF during the IP-CAN
session establishment procedure.
NOTE 4: How the IP Edge performs the mapping between the BBF specific QoS
parameters included in the Default-Access profile and the 3GPP QoS parameters
included in the Default-QoS is out of scope of 3GPP.
For AAA-based accounting, the charging information send by PCRF over Gxd are
not taken into consideration for accounting purposes by IP Edge.
### 5.5.3 TDF
The TDF functionality defined in TS 23.203 [4] shall apply.
Additionally, in case of receiving charging control parameters within the ADC
Rules from the PCRF, the TDF:
\- Initiates, maintains and terminates the session with OCS/OFCS according to
the charging control parameters received within the rules.
### 5.5.4 OFCS
The Offline Charging System (OFCS) performs offline charging functions as
specified in TS 32.240 [25].
NOTE: The enhancements of OCFS for supporting offline charging for NSWO and
fixed devices in convergent scenario is considered outside the scope of this
TR and left for consideration in 3GPP SA WG5.
### 5.5.5 OCS
The Online Charging System (OCS) performs online credit control as specified
in TS 32.240 [25].
NOTE: The enhancements of OCS for supporting online charging for NSWO and
fixed devices in convergent scenario is considered outside the scope of this
TR and left for consideration in 3GPP SA WG5.
### 5.5.6 AAA
The 3GPP AAA Server and 3GPP AAA Proxy are described in TS 23.402 [3]. In this
Release it is assumed that the accounting information for 3GPP UE and fixed
device is collected in BBF AAA Accounting Interworking Function.
The Accounting Interworking Function that performs translation of the
accounting signalling and parameters that are understood by the IP Edge into
the credit management signalling and parameters that are understood by the OCS
and the OFCS.
The Accounting Interworking Function triggers the establishment of the credit
management session with OCS after successful authentication, stores the quota
for the subscriber identified by the subscriber id received in the
authentication. When the Accounting Interworking Function detects that the
quota (e.g. time or volume) is exhausted (thanks to Accounting-Interim-Report
that reports the accumulated usage), the Accounting Interworking Function
requests a new quota and provides the accumulated usage to the OCS. When the
IP-CAN session in the IP Edge is terminated the Accounting Interworking
Function provides the remaining quota to the OCS and the credit management
session is terminated.
### 5.5.7 SPR
The SPR is a functional entity that stores the subscriber's QoS profile and is
defined in TS 23.203 [4].
In a converged network the SPR requirements may include:
\- The QoS profile for the RG is identified by the Subscription ID assigned to
the RG.
\- The RG QoS profile may include the uplink and down link rate limit assigned
to the RG line and QCI.
Individual QoS profile for each 3GPP UE and BBF fixed device identified by the
subscription-ID assigned to the devices.
The individual QoS profile for each 3GPP UE and fixed BBF device may include:
\- Allowed QoS, including the Subscribed Guaranteed Bandwidth QoS;
\- Indication whether application detection and control can be enabled for the
BBF fixed device and 3GPP UE.
Editor\'s note: Whether additional information may be provided by SPR for
supporting convergent scenario is FFS.
### 5.5.8 UDR
The UDR is a functional entity that acts as a single logical repository
storing user data and is defined in TS 23.203 [4].
## 5.6 TDF discovery
For the solicited application reporting, the TDF address is either configured
in the PCRF or the PCRF may also receive it as part of Gxd signalling.
## 5.7 Charging
### 5.7.1 TDF based charging
#### 5.7.1.1 Architectural requirements
Architectural requirements shall be as defined in the TR 23.800 [27], clause
4.
#### 5.7.1.2 Application Detection and Control Rules extension to support
charging
ADC Rules extension to support charging shall be as defined in the TR 23.800
[27], clause 6.1.1.3.
#### 5.7.1.3 Credit Management
Credit Management shall be as defined in the TR 23.800 [27], clause 6.1.1.4.
#### 5.7.1.4 Termination action
Termination action shall be as defined in the TR 23.800 [27], clause 6.1.1.5.
#### 5.7.1.5 Reporting
Reporting shall be as defined in the TR 23.800 [27], clause 6.1.1.5a.
#### 5.7.1.6 TDF session information related to charging
The purpose of the TDF session related information is to provide information
that is applicable to the whole TDF session. The PCRF provides the TDF session
related information to the TDF (if applicable) using ADC rule provision
procedure. The Downlink maximum bit rate per TDF session may be provided
together with ADC rules or separately.
Table 6.4a lists the TDF session related policy information.
Table 6.4a: TDF session related policy information
* * *
Attribute Description PCRF permitted to modify the attribute Charging
information Defines the containing OFCS and/or OCS addresses. No Default
charging method Defines the default charging method for the TDF session. No
Event trigger Defines the event(s) that shall cause a re-request of ADC rules
for the TDF session. Yes Maximum downlink bit rate Defines the maximum
downlink bit rate per TDF session. Yes ADC Revalidation time limit Defines the
time period within which the TDF shall perform an ADC rules request. Yes
* * *
Upon the initial interaction with the TDF, the PCRF may provide Charging
information containing OFCS and/or OCS addresses to the TDF defining the
offline and online charging system addresses respectively. These shall
override any possible predefined addresses at the TDF. If received by the TDF,
it supersedes the Primary OFCS/OCS address and Secondary OFCS/OCS address
predefined at the TDF.
Upon the initial interaction with the TDF, the PCRF may provide Default
charging method indicating what charging method shall be used in the TDF
session for every ADC rule where the charging method identifier is omitted. If
received by the TDF, it supersedes the defined Default charging method.
Upon every interaction with the TDF, the PCRF may provide Maximum downlink bit
rate for the TDF session.
NOTE: To avoid down-link packets being discarded in PCEF when TDF performs
charging, the PCRF should set the Maximum downlink bit rate to the DL APN-
AMBR.
Editor's note: It is FFS whether Maximum uplink bit rate should also be
supported.
Upon every interaction with the TDF, the PCRF may provide event triggers for
the TDF session. Event triggers are used to determine which event causes the
TDF to re-request ADC rules. The triggers applicable for the TDF are listed in
clause 6.1.4.
The ADC Revalidation time limit defines the time period within which the TDF
shall trigger a request for ADC rules for an established TDF session.
### 5.7.2 AAA based Charging
The charging support for NSWO traffic for 3GPP UE and fixed devices can be
provided when the BBF network reports per-user accounting data via B and
reference points.
Offline and online charging may be supported by the 3GPP and BBF domain. In
this Release, in case of AAA-based Charging, the Online charging is supported
based on existing capability supported by B reference point and IP edge with
limitation based on AAA RADIUS/Diameter accounting in the BBF network (e.g.
BNG capability, usage of RADIUS over B reference point).
For RG in routed mode configuration with NAT, the single devices (i.e. fixed
device and 3GPP UE) connected behind a RG can not be recognised, so the
accounting is performed only for the RG.
In case of RG bridge mode configuration and in routed mode configuration
without NAT the AAA based charging is performed per single devices having a
Subscriber IP session.
In order to allow performing charging for fixed devices, the following
assumptions are made about functionality in the Fixed Broadband Network:
\- The BBF network is able to collect per user accounting data for fixed
devices and periodically report this data via the B reference points.
NOTE: The study and definition of enhancements of AAA for supporting charging
for NSWO traffic from 3GPP UE and for fixed device is outside the scope of
this TR.
### 5\. 7.3 IP Edge based charging
#### 5.7.3.1 Architectural requirements
The architecture shall be as described in clause 5.3.2
#### 5.7.3.2 Credit re-authorization Triggers
The IP Edge shall support the credit re-authorization triggers according to
table 5.7.X.2.
Table 5.7.X-2: IP Edge Credit re-authorization triggers
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Credit re-authorization trigger | Description | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Credit authorisation lifetime | The OCS has limited the validity | | expiry | of the credit to expire at a | | | certain time. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Idle timeout | The service data flow has been | | | empty for a certain time. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | QoS changes | The QoS of the IP‑CAN session | | | has changed. | | | | | | Editor's Note: Whether a BBF | | | access supports this (QoS | | | changes) trigger in the IP Edge | | | needs to be cross-checked with | | | BBF | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## 5.8 Subscription ID
For the 3GPP UE the Subscription-ID is the IMSI.
For the RG and BBF fixed device, the Subscription-ID is defined in BBF TR‑134
[10], clause 4.1.4.1 as follows:
\- **Parameter:** Subscriber ID.
\- **Category:** User identification.
\- Type: Octet String.
\- **Description: Identity of the attached user.** The Subscriber ID is stored
permanently in the user profile data base and is stored temporarily in the AAA
function connected to the PDP.
NOTE: _\"and is stored temporarily in the AAA function connected to the PDP\"_
reflects the policy management architecture of BBF WT‑134 [10] and has no
significance for the PCC based architecture.
The Subscription-ID used by fixed device at establishment of Subscriber IP
session in fixed broadband access network can be the Access Line Identifier
(physical and logical circuit ID) or the username, for example when the
Subscriber IP session is a PPP Session.
## 5.9 PCRF discovery
Following information is available for PCRF discovery: the Subscription-ID, as
specified in sub-clause 5.8, and the fixed device/3GPP UE local IPv4/v6
address or IPv6 prefix. For a 3GPP UE, the NSWO-APN is also available.
Editor\'s note: Using the Access Line Identifier IE defined in BBF WT-134 [10]
for PCRF discovery is FFS.
The AF has the same information available for PCRF discovery as defined in TS
23.203 [4], clause 7.6.
The TDF for unsolicited application reporting has the same information
available for PCRF discovery as defined in TS 23.203 [4], clause 7.6.
PCRF discovery and selection follows the principles defined in TS 23.203 [4],
clause 7.6.
## 5.10 Policy for QoS and charging
Editor\'s note: This clause will identify the requirements and assumptions for
Policy for QoS and charging for Building Block 1.
### 5.10.1 Policy and charging control rule
For convergent policies the definition of PCC rules in clause 6.3 of TS 23.203
[4] are applicable with the modification described in this clause.
NOTE: The procedure for provisioning predefined PCC rules at the IP Edge is
out of scope of 3GPP.
Table 5.10-1 lists the QoS information contained in a PCC rule applicable to
the convergent scenario on Gxd reference point. The definition of information
contained in PCC rules in clause 6.3 of TS 23.203 [4] shall apply to the
convergent scenario.
Editor\'s note: Whether additional IEs are required is FFS.
Editor\'s note: The list of QoS IEs will be verified with BBF.
Table 5.10.1-1: QoS rule information elements of PCC rule
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Information | Description | Category | PCRF | Applicable | | name | | | permitted | for NSWO | | | | | to modify | WLAN, fixed | | | | | for a | BBF ,All | | | | | dynamic PCC | | | | | | rule in the | | | | | | IP Edge | | | | | | PCEF | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Rule | See table | Mandatory | No | All | | identifier | 6.3 | | | | | | TS 2 | | | | | | 3.203 [4] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Service | This clause | | | All | | data flow | defines the | | | | | detection | method for | | | | | | detecting | | | | | | packets | | | | | | belonging | | | | | | to a | | | | | | service | | | | | | data flow. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Precedence | See table | Mandatory | Yes | All | | | 6.3 | | | | | | TS 23 | | | | | | .203 [4]. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Service | See table | Mandatory | Yes | All | | data flow | 6.3 | | | | | template | TS 2 | | | | | | 3.203 [4] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Policy | This clause | | | All | | control | defines how | | | | | | the BNG | | | | | | shall apply | | | | | | policy | | | | | | control for | | | | | | the service | | | | | | data flow. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Gate status | See table | | Yes | All | | | 6.3 | | | | | | TS 2 | | | | | | 3.203 [4] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | QoS class | See table | Mandatory | Yes | All | | identifier | 6.3 | | | | | | TS 2 | | | | | | 3.203 [4] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UL-maximum | See table | C | Yes | All | | bitrate | 6.3 | onditional\ | | | | | TS 2 | (NOTE 1) | | | | | 3.203 [4] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | DL-maximum | See table | C | Yes | All | | bitrate | 6.3 | onditional\ | | | | | TS 2 | (NOTE 1) | | | | | 3.203 [4] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UL | See table | | Yes | All | | -guaranteed | 6.3 | | | | | bitrate | TS 2 | | | | | | 3.203 [4] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | DL | See table | | Yes | All | | -guaranteed | 6.3 | | | | | bitrate | TS 2 | | | | | | 3.203 [4] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ARP | See table | C | Yes | All | | | 6.3 | onditional\ | | | | | TS 2 | (NOTE 2) | | | | | 3.203 [4] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | Mandatory | | | | | | when policy | | | | | | control on | | | | | | SDF level | | | | | | applies. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Applicable | | | | | | according | | | | | | to BBF | | | | | | WT | | | | | | -134 [10] | | | | | | re | | | | | | quirements. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 5.10.2 Charging control information elements for PCEF based charging
Table 5.10.2-1 includes the charging IEs over Gxd for the PCEF based charging
solution.
Table 5.10.2-1: Charging rule information elements
* * *
Information name Description Category PCRF permitted to modify for a dynamic
PCC rule in the IP Edge PCEF Applicable for NSWO WLAN, fixed BBF ,All Charging
See table 6.3 TS 23.203 [4]  
Charging Key See table 6.3 TS 23.203 [4] Yes All Service identifier See table
6.3 TS 23.203 [4] Yes All Application Service Provider Identifier See table
6.3 TS 23.203 [4] Conditional Yes All Charging method See table 6.3 TS 23.203
[4] Conditional Yes All Gate status See table 6.3 TS 23.203 [4] Yes All
* * *
### 5.10.3 Charging control information elements for TDF based Changing
Table 5.10.3-1 includes the charging IEs over Sd for the TDF based charging
solution.
Table 5.10.3-1: Charging rule information elements
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Information | Description | Category | PCRF | Applicable | | name | | | permitted | for NSWO | | | | | to modify | WLAN, fixed | | | | | for a | BBF ,All | | | | | dynamic ADC | | | | | | rule | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Charging | Defines | | | | | | identities | | | | | | and | | | | | | i | | | | | | nstructions | | | | | | for | | | | | | charging | | | | | | and | | | | | | accounting | | | | | | that is | | | | | | required | | | | | | for an | | | | | | access | | | | | | point where | | | | | | application | | | | | | usage | | | | | | charging is | | | | | | configured | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Charging | The | Optional | Yes | All | | Key | charging | | | | | | system (OCS | | | | | | or OFCS) | | | | | | uses the | | | | | | charging | | | | | | key to | | | | | | determine | | | | | | the tariff | | | | | | to apply | | | | | | for the | | | | | | ap | | | | | | plication.. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Charging | Indicates | Conditional | No | All | | Method | the | (Mandatory | | | | | required | if there is | | | | | charging | no default | | | | | method for | charging | | | | | the ADC | method for | | | | | rule. | the TDF | | | | | | session). | | | | | Values: | | | | | | online, | | | | | | offline or | | | | | | neither. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Measurement | Indicates | Optional | Yes | All | | method | whether the | | | | | | application | | | | | | data | | | | | | volume, | | | | | | duration, | | | | | | combined | | | | | | volu | | | | | | me/duration | | | | | | or event | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | measured. | | | | | | | | | | | | This is | | | | | | applicable | | | | | | for | | | | | | reporting, | | | | | | if the | | | | | | charging | | | | | | method is | | | | | | online or | | | | | | offline. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Service | Identifies | Optional | Yes | All | | identifier | one or more | | | | | | a | | | | | | pplications | | | | | | to the | | | | | | charging | | | | | | system. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Service | Indicates | Optional | Yes | All | | Identifier | that | | | | | level | separate | | | | | reporting | usage | | | | | | reports | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | generated | | | | | | for this | | | | | | Service | | | | | | identifier. | | | | | | | | | | | | Values: | | | | | | mandated or | | | | | | not | | | | | | required. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 5.10.4 Charging control information elements for AAA based Changing
In case of AAA-based accounting the charging information over Gxd are not
considered for accounting purposes.
## 5.11 Event Triggers
The IP Edge shall support the event triggers according to table 5.11-1.
Table 5.11-1: IP Edge specific event triggers
+----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Event trigger | Description | Reported from | Condition for | | | | | reporting | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | QoS change | The QoS of the | PCEF | PCRF | | | access session | | | | | has changed | | | | | (Note 2)(Note | | | | | 7) | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Loss of | The IP‑CAN | PCEF | PCRF | | transmission | transmission | | | | resources | resources are | | | | | no longer / | | | | | again | | | | | usable.(Note | | | | | 7) . | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Out of Credit | Credit is no | PCEF | PCRF | | | longer | | | | | available | | | | | (Note 5) | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Usage Report | The IP CAN | PCEF | PCRF | | | session or the | | | | | monitoring key | | | | | specific | | | | | resource | | | | | consumed by | | | | | the UE or | | | | | fixed device | | | | | either reached | | | | | the threshold | | | | | or need to be | | | | | reported for | | | | | other reasons | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Enforced PCC | The PCEF is | PCEF | PCRF | | rule request | performing a | | | | | PCC rules | | | | | request as | | | | | instructed by | | | | | the PCRF. (See | | | | | table 6.2 of | | | | | TS | | | | | 23.203 [4]) | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Start of | The start or | PCEF | PCRF | | application | the stop of | | | | traffic | application | | | | detection and | traffic has | | | | | been detected | | | | Stop of | | | | | application | | | | | traffic | | | | | detection | | | | | (Note 4) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Device IP | The local IP | PCEF | Always set | | address change | address / | | | | (Note 4)(Note | Prefix of the | | | | 6) (Note 7) | 3GPP UE or of | | | | | the fixed | | | | | device has | | | | | been | | | | | allo | | | | | cated/released | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: All | | | | | these events | | | | | are defined in | | | | | Table 6-2 of | | | | | TS | | | | | 23.203 [4]. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | PCEF generates | | | | | the request | | | | | because an | | | | | event occurred | | | | | that may | | | | | affect | | | | | resources | | | | | requirements | | | | | and require | | | | | re | | | | | -authorization | | | | | of PCC rules. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: This | | | | | event may e.g. | | | | | take place | | | | | when a local | | | | | IP address / | | | | | IPv6 Prefix | | | | | has been | | | | | allocated / | | | | | released for | | | | | an IPCAN | | | | | session where | | | | | the IP Edge is | | | | | providing both | | | | | an IPv4 and an | | | | | IPv6 service | | | | | (when the | | | | | IPCAN session | | | | | toggles | | | | | between the | | | | | support of 1 | | | | | and 2 IP | | | | | versions). It | | | | | may also take | | | | | place when the | | | | | fixed device | | | | | gets via | | | | | DHCPv6 IPv6 | | | | | addresses / | | | | | Prefixes with | | | | | different life | | | | | times.In IPv6 | | | | | case when | | | | | SLAAC is used, | | | | | the IP Edge | | | | | can only | | | | | report the | | | | | IPv6 Prefix, | | | | | as it is | | | | | unaware of the | | | | | IP address | | | | | built by the | | | | | device. If TDF | | | | | for solicited | | | | | application | | | | | reporting is | | | | | applicable, | | | | | upon receiving | | | | | this event | | | | | report from | | | | | PCEF, PCRF | | | | | always update | | | | | the TDF. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: This | | | | | applies only | | | | | to an IP Edge | | | | | with ADC | | | | | capabilities. | | | | | The start and | | | | | stop of | | | | | application | | | | | traffic | | | | | detection are | | | | | separate event | | | | | triggers, but | | | | | received under | | | | | the same | | | | | subscription | | | | | from the PCRF. | | | | | For | | | | | unsolicited | | | | | application | | | | | reporting, the | | | | | IP Edge uses | | | | | these event | | | | | triggers to | | | | | notify the | | | | | PCRF. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: This | | | | | event may | | | | | apply only | | | | | when Gyd is | | | | | deployed. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: This | | | | | event trigger | | | | | shall be | | | | | reported when | | | | | the | | | | | corresponding | | | | | event occurs, | | | | | even if the | | | | | event trigger | | | | | has not been | | | | | provisioned by | | | | | the PCRF. | | | | | | | | | | > NOTE 7:\ | | | | | > Editor's | | | | | > note: | | | | | > Whether a | | | | | > BBF access | | | | | > supports | | | | | > this Event | | | | | > trigger in | | | | | > the IP Edge | | | | | > needs to be | | | | | > | | | | | cross-checked | | | | | > with BBF. | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+
The QoS change event trigger shall trigger the PCRF interaction for all
changes of the Subscriber IP session QoS.
The Device IP address change event trigger applies shall trigger a PCEF
interaction with the PCRF in case an IP address /Prefix is allocated to the UE
or released during the lifetime of the IP‑CAN session.
## 5.12 Usage Monitoring Control
### 5.12.1 General
Usage Monitoring Control provides a mechanism to monitor usage of services
that share a common volume and/or time allowance as defined in TS 23.203 [4].
In the routed RG with NAT mode, the fixed subscriber session (i.e. IP-CAN
session) is per RG, the PCRF retrieves the usage monitoring related
information (e.g. total allowed usage for the fixed subscriber session and/or
per MK) from the SPR using the subscriber-id provided over Gxd reference
point. The PCRF decides how to allocate a usage threshold to each existing IP-
CAN session and/or MK.
In the bridge RG mode and in routed RG mode without NAT there may be a
separate fixed subscriber session (i.e. IP-CAN session) for the each device
behind the RG. The PCRF retrieves usage monitoring related information (e.g.
the total allowed usage for the fixed subscriber session and/or per MK) from
the SPR using the subscriber-id and, if the request is for a 3GPP UE, the NSWO
APN provided over Gxd reference point. The PCRF decides how to allocate a
usage threshold to each existing IP-CAN session and/or MK. The total allowed
usage stored in SPR is per PDN and UE as defined in TS 23.203 [4].
The PCRF requests the PCEF to monitor the usage per IP-CAN session or for a
given Monitoring Key using the Usage Report Event Trigger and the usage
threshold upon which the PCEF shall report to the PCRF.
The PCEF monitors both the usage threshold for the fixed subscriber session
and the usage threshold for the NSWO traffic of the 3GPP UE. When the usage
threshold is reached, the PCRF performs policy decisions (e.g. block access to
services for a 3GPP UE).
Table 6.6 in TS 23.203 [4] defines Usage Monitoring Control Information.
## 5.13 Procedures
Editor\'s note: This clause will identify the procedures for Policy and QoS in
TS 23.402 [3] and/or TS 23.203 [4] style for Building Block 1.
Editor\'s note: For all charging options in this clause, roaming interaction
has to be added to the flows (only update to the subscription information
scenario includes it for now).
### 5.12.1 Overview of the procedures
NOTE 1: As the architecture considers 3 possible charging options for traffic
exchanged by fixed devices and NSWO traffic to/from 3GPP UE, the procedures
are described as follows:
\- For each high level procedure (IP-CAN Session Establishment, PCRF Initiated
IP-CAN Session Modification, IP Edge/PCEF initiated IP-CAN Termination, etc.)
the charging flows are not documented in the description of the procedure but
a reference is made to the clause dedicated to \"Accounting and charging\".
\- Nevertheless if, due to the different charging options, there are, within a
procedure (IP-CAN Session Establishment, etc.), some differences in non
charging related flows/steps, these differences are captured in these steps.
\- From stage 2 point of view some charging parameters that may be included in
PCC interactions (e.g. Charging rules sent over Gxd) are applicable only for a
specific charging deployment. This does not preclude the stage 3 from defining
protocols (e.g. Gxd) that contain parameters applicable to the 3 possible
charging options.
\- The PCRF is assumed to be aware of the charging option that applies in a
given deployment and to thus make sure to provide the other PCC entities (IP
Edge, TDF) with the parameters that are needed by the charging option that
applies in this deployment.
NOTE 2: In all the procedures, the IP Edge/PCEF performs the mapping between
the PCC rules received from the PCRF and the parameters specific for BBF
networks. This mapping is out of scope of 3GPP.
### 5.13.2 IP-CAN related procedures
This clause depicts the procedures over Gxd reference point: session
establishment, modification and termination. Each of the procedures may result
in interactions with the charging system and those are referred to in these
flows but described in clause 5.13.3.
For the dynamic QoS for the IP-CAN session the following requirements shall be
supported:
\- interaction between PCRF and PCEF at IP-CAN session establishment.
\- policy change requests originated from Applications Function after IP-CAN
session establishment.
\- policies apply to individual IP-CAN session.
\- policy evaluation may be triggered by the change in state of an IP-CAN
session.
In the RG NATed/routed mode there is a single RG IP subscriber session for all
devices connected to the RG (NAT case, routed mode) and thus a single Gxd IP
CAN session.
In the case without NAT between the UE and the PCEF (e.g. RG in bridge mode)
the IP Edge/PCEF binds a UE IP subscriber session connected to the RG (no
NAT/bridged mode) with a Gxd IP-CAN session.
Editor\'s note: 3GPP AAA interactions for 3GPP UE authentication are not shown
in the message flows.
NOTE: In all the procedures how the IP Edge/PCEF performs QoS enforcement in
the BBF is out of the scope of 3GPP. The IP Edge/PCEF performs the mapping
between the PCC rules and the parameters specific to a Fixed Broadband Access
network.
Editor\'s note: The impact on Gy interface with regard to Information Elements
and re-authorization triggers is FFS.
#### 5.13.2.1 IP-CAN Session Establishment
This clause describes the signalling flow for Gxd IP CAN Session
establishment. The session is initiated after that the IP Edge becomes aware
of an IPv4 address and/or an IPv6 prefix has been assigned to the fixed device
and/or 3GPP UE.
NOTE 1: In bridge mode, the session is initiated after the device has been
authenticated per BBF specifications (i.e. out of scope of 3GPP) or after that
3GPP UE performs 3GPP EAP-based authentication and has been assigned an IPv4
address and/or IPv6 Prefix.
NOTE 2: In routed mode configuration with NATed RG, the session is initiated
after the RG has been connected to the network and has been assigned an IPv4
address and/or IPv6 Prefix. The IPv4 address and/or IPv6 Prefix is assigned as
per BBF specifications and it is out of scope of 3GPP.
Figure 5.13.2.1-1: Session Establishment
1\. A Fixed Broadband subscriber session is initiated by the device, (e.g. a
RG switches on, a 3GPP UE starts a session, etc.). When the device is not
acting as a 3GPP device, implicit authentication (e.g. access line
authentication) or explicit authentication (i.e. user name and credentials) is
performed as specified by BBF. Otherwise if the device is 3GPP UE, the
authentication is performed as described in TS 23.402 [3]. As part of this
step, the BBF AAA may provide Default QoS to the IP Edge/PCEF. The IP
Edge/PCEF assigns an IP address (and/or an IPv6 prefix) or IP Edge learns the
IP address if already assigned for the Fixed Broadband subscriber session.
This step is BBF specific and as such out of scope of this TR.
2\. The IP Edge/PCEF sends an indication of the IP-CAN session establishment
to the PCRF. The message includes the Subscription-ID if available, the Access
Line Identifier (physical and logical circuit ID), default QoS, if available,
the IP-CAN type, the IPv4 address and/or the IPv6 network prefix.
NOTE 3: For 3GPP UE, the indication of the IP-CAN session establishment with
the PCRF may include the APN (i.e. NSWO-APN).
3\. The PCRF obtains the subscriber\'s profile related to the UE.
4\. The PCRF makes policy decision and derives PCC and possibly ADC Rules. The
PCRF may change the default QoS of the subscriber it received from the PCEF.
The PCRF may include the following information: Default QoS, the PCC Rules and
the Event Triggers to report. The Event Triggers indicate to the IP Edge/PCEF
what events must be reported to the PCRF. The PCC and ADC rules may contain
charging information needed by the charging option used in the deployment.
NOTE 4: The PCRF may override the default QoS received from the IP Edge/PCEF.
5\. When the solicited application reporting from the TDF applies, the PCRF
establishes a session with the TDF and provides ADC rules to the TDF.
6\. If TDF based charging is applicable for this deployment, interaction with
the charging systems is performed. This is further detailed in clause 5.13.3.
Editor\'s note: Whether additional parameters in the PCC Rule are required for
the IP-CAN session is FFS.
7\. The PCRF provisions the PCC rules at the IP Edge/PCEF. It may also
provision ADC rules when the IP Edge is enhanced with support of ADC rules.
The IP Edge/PCEF enforces the rules received from the PCRF.
8\. If IP Edge/PCEF or AAA based charging applies for this deployment,
interaction with the charging systems is performed. This is further detailed
in clause 5.13.3.
9\. This step is BBF specific. The IP Edge/PCEF may communicate with other
network elements in the BBF access network per BBF specifications.
#### 5.13.2.2 PCRF Initiated IP-CAN Session Modification
This clause is related to IP-CAN session modification for IP session initiated
by PCRF. The AF can be involved.
Figure 5.13.2.2-1: PCRF initiated IP-CAN Session Modification
1a. The AF requests QoS resource authorization. The request includes the
bandwidth requirements, media type, session priority and other information
according to TS 23.203 [4].
NOTE 1: In routed mode with NAT this procedure is applicable when AF request
QoS and charging for RG or for single device connected behind the NATed RG for
which the AF is providing the NATed IP address and ports used by the single
device (e.g. for IMS, according to TS 23.228 [29]).
1b. The same step as step 1b in TS 23.203 [4] procedure in clause 7.5.
NOTE 2: In routed mode with NAT the TDF is unaware of which device supports
the application that has been detected and so the trigger cannot be correlated
to a fixed or NSWO device.
Alternatively, the PCRF may initiate this procedure based on PCRF internal
logic.
2\. The PCRF makes policy decisions and determines the ADC and PCC Rules (e.g.
QCI, UL/DL max/minimum or guaranteed Bitrate and priority for the service) and
the Event Triggers to report. The Event Triggers indicate to the IP Edge/PCEF
what events must be reported to the PCRF. The PCC and ADC rules may contain
charging information needed by the charging option used in the deployment.
3\. When a TDF session exists for this IP-CAN session and new ADC rules have
been determined at step 2, the PCRF modifies the TDF session by sending the
new/updated ADC Rules to the TDF as step 5 in TS 23.203 [4] procedure in
clause 7.5.
4\. If TDF based charging is applicable for this deployment, interaction with
the charging systems is performed. This is further detailed in clause 5.13.3.
5\. When new rules and/or Events Triggers impacting the IP Edge have been
determined at step 2, the PCRF provisions them at the IP Edge/PCEF. The PCRF
may also provision ADC rules when the IP Edge is enhanced with support of ADC
rules.
6\. The IP Edge/PCEF responds with an acknowledgment.
7\. If IP Edge/PCEF or AAA based charging applies for this deployment,
interaction with the charging systems is performed. This is further detailed
in clause 5.13.3.
8\. The IP Edge/PCEF enforces the PCC rules.
9\. BBF specific procedures may apply, e.g. the IP Edge/PCEF may communicate
with other entities in BBF access as per BBF specifications.
#### 5.13.2.3 IP Edge/PCEF Initiated IP-CAN Session Modification
This clause is related to IP-CAN session modification initiated by IP
Edge/PCEF for IP session. The procedure is applicable when the IP Edge/PCEF
makes a decision to request a modification of PCC rules. The trigger to start
the modification procedure by IP Edge/PCEF can be a provisioned event-trigger
by the PCRF or a BBF specific trigger.
For the IP Edge/PCEF enhanced with ADC, the reason for such a modification may
be that a start or stop of application traffic that matches with one of the
activated ADC Rules is detected.
Figure 5.13.2.3-1: IP Edge/PCEF Initiated IP-CAN Session Modification
1\. The IP Edge/PCEF receives a trigger (e.g. from RG) or decides to modify an
IP-CAN session.
NOTE 1: The triggers can be different in bridge mode configuration and in
routed mode configuration.
Editor\'s note: Applicable event-triggers are FFS.
2\. The IP Edge/PCEF may initiate the session modification procedure based on
internal triggers or when event-triggers provisioned by the PCRF are detected.
The message includes the Event Report and affected PCC Rules.
3\. The PCRF makes policy decisions and may determine new/modified ADC and PCC
Rules (e.g. QCI, UL/DL max/minimum or guaranteed Bitrate and priority for the
service) and the Event Triggers to report. The modified PCC or ADC rules may
contain Charging related information that is needed by the charging option
used in the deployment.
Editor\'s note: Whether additional parameters in the PCC Rule are required for
the IP-CAN session is FFS.
4\. When a TDF session exists for this IPCAN session and new ADC rules have
been determined at step 2, The PCRF provisions new/updated ADC Rules at the
TDF as defined in steps 11 and 12 of TS 23.203 [4] procedure in clause 7.3.2.
5\. The modified ADC rules may contain Charging related information that is
relevant in case TDF based charging is applicable to this deployment; In such
a case, interaction with the charging systems is performed. This is further
detailed in clause 5.13.3.
6\. When new rules and/or Events Triggers impacting the IP Edge have been
determined at step 2, the PCRF provisions them at the IP Edge/PCEF. It may
also provision ADC rules when the IP Edge is enhanced with support of ADC
rules.
7\. If IP Edge/PCEF or AAA based charging applies for this deployment,
interaction with the charging systems is performed. This is further detailed
in clause 5.13.3.
8\. The IP Edge/PCEF enforces the PCC rules.
9\. BBF specific procedures may apply, e.g. the IP Edge/PCEF may communicate
with other entities in BBF access per BBF specifications.
#### 5.13.2.4 IP Edge/PCEF initiated IP-CAN Termination
This clause is related to termination of the IP-CAN session by IP Edge/PCEF.
The procedure is applicable when IP session is terminated. The trigger to
start the termination by IP Edge/PCEF is BBF specific (e.g. RG switch off,
PPPoE session termination, etc.) and out of the scope of 3GPP.
In routed mode configuration with NAT this procedure is applicable only when
IP session from RG is terminated, e.g. when RG switches off, etc. The
termination of connection from a device in LAN, e.g. when a device releases
the local IP address or disconnects from WLAN does not trigger the IP-CAN
session termination for IP session from RG.
Figure 5.13.2.4-1: IP Edge/PCEF Initiated IP-CAN Session Termination
1\. The IP Edge/PCEF receives a request to terminate the session with the PCRF
based on BBF triggers (for example due to termination of session, power off of
RG, etc as defined by BBF specifications.
NOTE: How the IP Edge/PCEF detects or is informed that BBF access session is
terminated is BBF specific and is out of the scope of 3GPP.
2\. The IP Edge/PCEF initiates the indication of IP-CAN Session termination
procedure.
3\. The PCRF identifies the affected PCC rules.
4\. The PCRF notifies the AF about loss of transmission.
5\. When a TDF session exists for this IP-CAN session, the PCRF terminates the
session with the TDF as defined in steps 10 and 11 of TS 23.203 [4] procedure
in clause 7.3.1.
6\. If TDF based charging had applied for this particular deployment,
interaction with the charging systems is performed. This is further detailed
in clause 5.13.3.
7\. The PCRF acknowledges the termination of the session.
8\. If IP Edge/PCEF or AAA based charging applies for this deployment,
interaction with the charging systems is performed. This is further detailed
in clause 5.13.3.
#### 5.13.2.5 Update of the subscription information in the PCRF
In routed mode with NAT this procedure is applicable only if profile
information related to RG has been changed.
Figure 5.13.2.5-1: Update of the subscription information in the PCRF
1 The SPR detects that the subscriber\'s profile changed. The change many
include indication whether application detection and control can be enabled.
Editor\'s note: Enhancements to the subscriber profile for BBF access is FFS.
2 The SPR notifies the PCRF of the profile change provided if the PCRF has
subscribed to such notification event(s).
3 The PCRF responds to the SPR notification message.
4 The PCRF stores the updated profile.
5 The PCRF identifies the rules affected and derives new/modified ones.
6 The PCRF initiates the IP-CAN Session Modification procedure as according to
clause 5.13.2.2 if the BBF access or 3GPP UEs are affected. The PCRF may also
provide ADC rules to the PCEF enhanced with the ADC.
### 5.13.3 Charging related procedures
#### 5.13.3.1 PCEF based charging (PCEF located at IP Edge)
##### Charging Session initiation {#charging-session-initiation .H6}
Figure 5.13.3.1-1: PCEF based Charging Session Initiation
1\. Initiation of charging session takes place at IP-CAN session initiation,
see clause 5.13.2.1, if online charging is applicable for the IP-CAN session,
and at least one PCC rule is activated.
2\. The IP Edge /PCEF shall activate the online charging session, and provide
relevant input information for the OCS decision. Depending on operator
configuration IP Edge / PCEF may request credit from OCS for each charging key
of the activated PCC rules.
3\. If online charging is applicable, the OCS provides the possible credit
information to the IP Edge / PCEF and may provide re-authorisation triggers
for each of the credits.
##### Charging Session Modification {#charging-session-modification .H6}
Figure 5.12.3.1-2: PCEF based Charging Session Modification
1\. Update of charging session takes place at IP-CAN session modification, see
clause 5.13.2.3, if online charging is applicable for the IP-CAN session, and
at least one PCC rule is activated, updated or removed.
2\. The IP Edge/PCEF may contact the OCS to request credit for new charging
keys and/or to issue final report and return remaining credit for charging
keys no longer active.
Editor\'s Note: the list of events that may trigger credit re-authorization
request is FFS.
3\. The OCS may instruct the IP Edge / PCEF on the further handling of the IP-
CAN session (terminate, continue, reroute, etc), provide credit information to
the IP Edge / PCEF (possibly with re-authorisation trigger), and/or
acknowledge the credit report.
##### Charging Session Termination {#charging-session-termination .H6}
Figure 5.12.3.1-1: PCEF based Charging Session Termination
1\. Termination of charging session takes place at IP-CAN session termination,
see clause 5.13.2.4,if online charging was applicable for the IP-CAN session.
2\. The IP Edge / PCEF shall issue the final reports and return the remaining
credit to the OCS.
3\. The OCS acknowledges the credit report and terminates the online charging
session.
#### 5.13.3.2 TDF based charging
##### Charging Session Initiation {#charging-session-initiation-1 .H6}
Figure 11.3.2-1: TDF based Charging Session Initiation
1\. Initiation of online/offline charging session takes place at IP-CAN
session initiation in case of TDF session establishment, see clause 5.13.2.1,
if at least one ADC Rule with charging parameters is activated.
NOTE: Establishment of online/offline charging session for TDF may also occur
during IP-CAN session, if TDF session is established during an on-going IP-CAN
session and/or if at least one ADC Rule is received from the PCRF which
includes charging parameters.
2\. If online charging is applicable, the TDF activates the online charging
session, and provide relevant input information for the OCS decision.
Depending on operator configuration, the TDF may request credit from the OCS.
3\. If online charging is applicable, the OCS provides the possible credit
information to the TDF and may provide re-authorisation triggers for each one
of the credits.
##### Charging Session Termination {#charging-session-termination-1 .H6}
Figure 5.13.3.2-2: TDF based Charging Session Termination
1\. Termination of online/offline charging session takes place at IP-CAN
session termination in case of active TDF session, see clause 5.13.2.4, if at
least one ADC Rule with charging parameters was activated.
NOTE: Termination of online/offline charging session for TDF may also occur
during IP-CAN session, if TDF session is terminated during an on-going IP-CAN
session and/or if the last ADC Rule with charging parameters was deactivated
by the PCRF.
2\. If online charging is applicable, The TDF shall issue the final reports
and returns the remaining credit to the OCS.
3\. The OCS acknowledges the credit report and terminates the online charging
session.
##### Charging Session Modification {#charging-session-modification-1 .H6}
Figure 5.13.3.2-3: TDF based Charging Session Modification
1\. Modification of online charging session takes place at IP-CAN session
modification in case of active TDF session, see clauses 5.13.2.3 and 5.13.2.4.
2\. If online charging is applicable, the TDF may request credit for new
charging keys from the OCS, and/or inform OCS about re-authorization trigger
if the event occurs, and/or issue final reports and return remaining credit
for charging keys no longer active to the OCS.
3\. If OCS was contacted, the OCS provides the credit information to the TDF,
and/or acknowledges the credit report.
#### 5.13.3.3 AAA-based charging using accounting signalling
In this clause, we describe the AAA-based charging. The basic assumption is
that B interface is not modified.
##### Charging Session Initiation {#charging-session-initiation-2 .H6}
Figure 5.13.3.3-1: AAA-based Charging Session Initiation
1\. The 3GPP UE/BBF device is successfully authenticated.
2\. The Accounting Interworking Function that will activate the online-
charging session, and provide relevant input information for the OCS decision.
i.e. subscriber identifier and charging keys.
3\. If online charging is applicable, the OCS provides the possible credit
information to the Accounting Interworking Function and may provide re-
authorisation triggers for each of the credits.
NOTE: Credit Reauthorization triggers that can be reported are Credit
Reauthorization time expired.
##### Charging Session Modification {#charging-session-modification-2 .H6}
Figure 5.13.3.3-2: AAA-based Charging Session modification
1\. Update or termination of accounting information takes place at the
Accounting Interworking Function which triggers an interaction with the OCS.
2\. The Accounting Interworking Function may contact the OCS to request credit
for new charging keys and/or to issue final report and return remaining credit
for charging keys no longer active, i.e. when the accounting session is
terminated.
3\. The OCS may instruct the Accounting Interworking Function on the further
handling of the session (terminate, continue, etc), provide credit information
(possibly with re-authorisation trigger), and/or acknowledge the credit
report.
##### Charging Session Termination {#charging-session-termination-2 .H6}
Figure 5.13.3.3-3: AAA-based Charging Session Termination
1\. The Accounting Session terminates.
2\. The Accounting Interworking Function shall issue the final reports and
return the remaining credit to the OCS.
3\. The OCS acknowledges the credit report and terminates the online charging
session.
## 5.14 Binding Mechanism
The binding mechanism includes two steps:
1\. Session binding.
2\. PCC rule authorization.
Session binding of AF session and TDF session (in unsolicited mode) to an IP-
CAN session is performed by the PCRF, as defined in clause 6.1.1 of TS 23.203
[4].
The PCRF derives and authorises PCC rules as described in clause 6.1.1 of TS
23.203 [4].
## 5.15 Conclusion on BB1
### 5.15.1 Enhancements to PCC architecture
The study for support QoS, IP Edge/PCEF-based and TDF-based charging has been
concluded with the assumptions and requirements described in clauses 5.2 to
5.12 for the support of convergence scenario for 3GPP UE and of fixed device.
This clause lists the identified enhancements to PCC architecture to support
policy and charging control for fixed devices and for 3GPP UEs in a non-seam
WLAN offload scenario,
In case of BBF-defined Fixed Broadband Access, the PCEF located in the IP Edge
is defined in WT-300 [17]. The PCEF in the IP Edge supports both Gxd, Gyd and
Gzd reference points and credit management, reporting, termination action,
policy control functions, standardized QoS characteristics, application
detection and redirection functionalities as defined in the TS 23.203 [4] with
the following considerations:
\- For Policy control and standardized QoS characteristics, the authorized QoS
for a service data flow or for an application is provided by PCRF to the PCEF;
the assumption is that the PCEF uses QCI for traffic prioritization, GBR for
admission control and MBR for bandwidth limitation.
Editor's note: Verification of the usage of ARP for pre-emption of existing IP
Sessions or prioritization of new requests to establish an IP Session and
verification of event triggers applicable to BBF architecture is ongoing.
\- For credit management, there is one credit management session with the OCS
for each IP-CAN session subject of online charging.
Editor's note: Verification of credit reauthorization triggers detected by IP
Edge/PCEF applicable to BBF architecture is ongoing.
The BBF confirms that WT-300 scope includes the support of the following
charging options:
\- Gy/Gz-based charging in IP Edge
\- TDF-based charging
Alternatively, the TDF supports Sd, Gyt and Gzt for credit management,
reporting, termination action functions policy control and redirection as
defined in the TS 23.203 [4].
Editor's note: BBF has been informed about configuration needed in the BBF-
defined Fixed Broadband Access in order to achieve QoS and charging support in
the TDF.
In case of Fixed Broadband Access, the SPR stores subscriber data for fixed
devices.
In case of BBF-defined Fixed Broadband Access the following areas of
enhancements are identified for the PCRF thus far: identification of fixed
devices, or the access specific information sent from PCEF as defined in
WT-300 to PCRF, i.e. logical and physical circuit ID of the fixed device. No
required enhancements have been identified for the AF so far. Additional
requirements on PCRF may be received from BBF at a later time.
### 5.15.2 Enhancements to AAA architecture
The study for the support of AAA-based charging has been concluded with the
assumptions that the Accounting Interworking Function located in the BBF
domain performs interworking between accounting received over B reference
point in BBF domain and charging performs over Gya and Gza towards OCS/OFCS in
3GPP domain.
NOTE: Whether the Accounting Interworking function resides in the BBF AAA
proxy or is a stand-alone function is outside the 3GPP scope.
Editor's note: Verification above assumptions is ongoing with BBF.
# 6 Building block 3: PCC for 3GPP UE connected to fixed broadband access
networks via S2b and S2c reference points for EPC routed traffic
Editor\'s note: This clause will contain items being part of Building Block 3
P4C-s2bc.
## 6.1 Key issues
Editor\'s note: This clause will identify the key issues for Building Block 3.
## 6.2 Architectural requirements and assumptions
Editor\'s note: This clause will identify the architectural requirements and
assumptions as well as architecture common for Building Block 3.
## 6.3 Alternative Solutions
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the alternative solutions for
Building Block 3, if more than 1 will be proposed.
### 6.3.1 Alternative X
#### 6.3.1.1 General principles
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the general principles for
alternative X for Building Block 3.
#### 6.3.1.2 Reference architecture
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the reference architecture for Non-
roaming and for roaming scenario for alternative X for Building Block 3.
#### 6.3.1.3 Reference points
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the reference points of architecture
for roaming for alternative X for Building Block 3.
#### 6.3.1.4 Policy forQoS and charging
Editor\'s note: This clause will identify the requirements and assumptions for
Policy for QoS and charging for Building Block 3.
#### 6.3.1.5 Procedures
Editor\'s note: This clause will identify the procedures for Policy and QoS in
TS 23.402 [3] and/or TS 23.203 [4] style for Building Block 3.
## 6.4 Evaluation of alternatives
Editor\'s note: This clause contains the evaluation of solutions for Building
Block 3 based on the objectives.
## 6.5 Conclusions
Editor\'s note: This clause contains the conclusions for the Building Block 3.
# 7 Building block 4: PCC for EPC routed traffic over fixed broadband access
networks of 3GPP UEs connected via H(e)NB
Editor\'s note: This clause will contain items being part of Building Block 4
P4C-HeNB.
## 7.1 Key issues
Editor\'s note: This clause will identify the key issues for Building Block 4.
## 7.2 Architectural requirements and assumptions
Editor\'s note: This clause will identify the architectural requirements and
assumptions as well as architecture common for Building Block 4.
## 7.3 Alternative Solutions
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the alternative solutions for
Building Block 4, if more than 1 will be proposed.
### 7.3.1 Alternative X
#### 7.3.1.1 General principles
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the general principles for
alternative X for Building Block 4.
#### 7.3.1.2 Reference architecture
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the reference architecture for Non-
roaming and for roaming scenario for alternative X for Building Block 4.
#### 7.3.1.3 Reference points
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the reference points of architecture
for roaming for alternative X for Building Block 4.
#### 7.3.1.4 Policy for QoS and charging
Editor\'s note: This clause will identify the requirements and assumptions for
Policy for QoS and charging for Building Block 4.
#### 7.3.1.5 Procedures
Editor\'s note: This clause will identify the procedures for Policy and QoS in
TS 23.402 [3] and/or TS 23.203 [4] style for Building Block 4.
## 7.4 Evaluation of alternatives
Editor\'s note: This clause contains the evaluation of solutions for Building
Block 4 based on the objectives.
## 7.5 Conclusions
Editor\'s note: This clause contains the conclusions for the Building Block 4.
# 8 Building block 5: PCC for supporting Layer 2 traffic in fixed broadband
access networks
Editor\'s note: This clause will contain items being part of Building Block 5
P4C-FL2.
## 8.1 Key issues
Editor\'s note: This clause will identify the key issues for Building Block 5.
## 8.2 Architectural requirements and assumptions
Editor\'s note: This clause will identify the architectural requirements and
assumptions as well as architecture common for Building Block 5.
## 8.3 Alternative Solutions
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the alternative solutions for
Building Block 5, if more than 1 will be proposed.
### 8.3.1 Alternative X
#### 8.3.1.1 General principles
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the general principles for
alternative X for Building Block 5.
#### 8.3.1.2 Reference architecture
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the reference architecture for Non-
roaming and for roaming scenario for alternative X for Building Block 5.
#### 8.3.1.3 Reference points
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the reference points of architecture
for roaming for alternative X for Building Block 5.
#### 8.3.1.4 Policy for QoS and charging
Editor\'s note: This clause will identify the requirements and assumptions for
Policy for QoS and charging for Building Block 5.
#### 8.3.1.5 Procedures
Editor\'s note: This clause will identify the procedures for Policy and QoS in
TS 23.402 [3] and/or TS 23.203 [4] style for Building Block 5.
## 8.4 Evaluation of alternatives
Editor\'s note: This clause contains the evaluation of solutions for Building
Block 5 based on the objectives.
## 8.5 Conclusions
Editor\'s note: This clause contains the conclusions for the Building Block 5.
# 9 Building block 6 : PCC for 3GPP UE connected to fixed broadband access
networks via S2a reference point for EPC routed traffic
Editor\'s note: This clause will contain items being part of Building Block 6
P4C-TC.
## 9.1 Key issues
Editor\'s note: This clause will identify the key issues for Building Block 6.
## 9.2 Architectural requirements and assumptions
Editor\'s note: This clause will identify the architectural requirements and
assumptions as well as architecture common for Building Block 6.
## 9.3 Alternative Solutions
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the alternative solutions for
Building Block 6, if more than 1 will be proposed.
### 9.3.1 Alternative 1: Policy and QoS control over Gxd
#### 9.3.1.1 General principles
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the general principles for
alternative X for Building Block 6.
General architectural assumptions:
\- There is a direct Gxd interface between PCRF and IP Edge.
\- PCRF provides QoS rules via Gxd interface to IP Edge for both S2a-GTP and
S2a-PMIP cases.
\- The IP Edge is the policy enforcement point for QoS rules in the fixed
access network.
\- The IP Edge shall be able to perform the appropriate mapping from QoS
parameters it receives from the PCRF to BBF specific parameters.
NOTE 1: For which entity internal to TWAN to process the QoS rules received
from PCRF over Gxd is outside the scope of 3GPP.
NOTE 2: Additional policy session (i.e. IP-CAN session) associated with the
same UE may be established for attaching UE to the fixed device and to enable
the NSWO over the same Gxd interface.
#### 9.3.1.2 Reference architecture
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the reference architecture for Non-
roaming and for roaming scenario for alternative X for Building Block 6.
The converged network architecture for BB 6 is shown in the following figures.
This architecture supports the scenario of a single network operator deploying
both the 3GPP EPC and the BBF access network. Furthermore the architecture
supports the roaming scenario between two PLMN operators.
The architectures in the following figures show only entities and interfaces
that are in scope of the work and/or are impacted by BB 6.
The reference points internal to the Fixed Broadband access network are
defined or are under definition by Broadband Forum and are out of the scope of
this TR.
Figure 9.3.1.2-1: Non-Roaming Architecture for policy and control over Gxd for
fixed broadband access network connected via s2a
Figure 9.3.1-2-2: Roaming Architecture for policy and control over Gxd for
fixed broadband access network connected via s2a - Home Routed
Figure 9.3.1.2-3: Roaming Architecture for policy and control over Gxd for
fixed broadband access network connected via s2a - Local Break Out
NOTE 1: Whether the TWAG and IP Edge is integrated or standalone is defined in
BBF and is out of 3GPP scope.
#### 9.3.1.3 Reference points
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the reference points of architecture
for roaming for alternative X for Building Block 6.
**Gxd** For the purpose of convergence between 3GPP and BBF network it
transfers QoS control policies from the Home PCRF to the IP Edge in non-
roaming scenario and from the Visited PCRF to the BNGIP Edge in roaming
scenario.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS whether Gxd is Gx or an enhancement of Gx.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS whether S9 requires enhancements.
Gxd Reference Point:
\- The Gxd reference point enables a PCRF to have dynamic control over the QoS
behaviour at a BBF network.
\- The Gxd reference point enables the signalling of PCC decision and it
supports the following functions:
\- Request for QoS rules from IP Edge to PCRF.
\- Provision of QoS rules from PCRF to IP Edge.
\- Termination of Gateway control session over Gxd interface by IP Edge or
PCRF.
Editor\'s note: Whether the Gateway control session over Gxd for the EPC-
routed traffic is initiated by PCRF or IP Edge is FFS.
#### 9.3.1.4 Policy for QoS and charging
Editor\'s note: This clause will identify the requirements and assumptions for
Policy for QoS and charging for Building Block 6.
In this alternative solution, Policy and QoS are sent over Gxd signalling,
i.e. no additional requirement are imposed to FBB/BBF to define a signalling
path to support either S2a-GTP or S2a-Gxa to provision QoS rules at the IP
Edge.
Assumptions for policy and QoS control in alternative solution #1: Policy and
QoS via S9aGxd:
\- A common policy control interface is defined to support converged policy
for the co-existence deployment for the fixed, NSWO and EPC-routed.
\- The policy control interface described above is agnostic to the deployment
of S2a-GTP or S2a-PMIP.
\- The policy control interface described above is agnostic to the internal
configuration of TWAN (e.g. standalone or integrated TWAN and IP Edge
configurations).
\- The QoS parameters that are in-band to S2a-GTP will be ignored by TWAN as
Gxd is the common policy control interface to support policy control
interworking for S2a over trusted WLAN access.
#### 9.3.1.5 Procedures
Editor\'s note: This clause will identify the procedures for Policy and QoS in
TS 23.402 [3] and/or TS 23.203 [4] style for Building Block 6.
## 9.4 Evaluation of alternatives
Editor\'s note: This clause contains the evaluation of solutions for Building
Block 6 based on the objectives.
## 9.5 Conclusions
Editor\'s note: This clause contains the conclusions for the Building Block 6.
# 10 Conclusions
Editor\'s note: This clause contains the conclusions and the output of the
study. This clause will be also filled based with common part for the BBS when
1 or more BBs are mature enough. The indication included this clause will be
used for normative work.
## 10.1 Reference architecture
Editor\'s note: This clause contains the results and the common architecture
for the building block for which the work has been completed.
## 10.2 Policy for QoS and charging
Editor\'s note: This clause contains the results and the common definition of
policy for QoS and charging for the building block for which the work has been
completed.
## 10.3 Procedure
Editor\'s note: This clause contains the results and the common procedure for
the building block for which the work has been completed.
###### ### Annex A: 3GPP EAP-based access authentication with respect to
routed RG
For the case when the 3GPP UE performs the 3GPP-based authentication, there
are two considerations with respect to the Routed mode RG with or without NAT:
\- Routed mode RG with NAT
\- RG with NAT is operating with IPv4 addressing. The RG obtains a public IPv4
address from the IP Edge after the RG powers on and performs the
authentication.
\- Routed mode RG without NAT
\- RG without NAT is operating in either IPv6 or/and IPv4. For IPv6, the RG
obtains an IPv6 prefix from the IP Edge after the RG powers on and performs
the authentication.
\- For IPv4, the RG obtains a public IPv4 address from the IP Edge after the
RG powers on and performs the authentication. The RG or IP Edge assigns
another public IPv4 address to the 3GPP UE once the UE has performed 3GPP-
based authentication. When the IPv4 addresses are allocated by the RG, there
shouldn\'t be any overlapping between the address pools of the RGs connecting
to the same IP Edge.
#