# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present document defines the telecommunication services supported by a GSM
PLMN within the digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 0 Scope
The present document covers the definition of the circuit telecommunication
services supported by a PLMN. The purpose of the present document is to
provide a method for the characterization and the description of these
telecommunication services.
TS 22.101 describes overall service principles of a PLMN.
## 0.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ITU-T Recommendation I.221: \"Common specific characteristics of
services\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation X.200: \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Basic reference model: The basic model\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service Principles\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.002: \"Bearer services supported by a PLMN\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.003: \"Teleservices supported by a PLMN\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on Supplementary Services\".
[8] 3GPP TS 27.001: \"General on Terminal Adaptation Functions (TAF) for
Mobile Stations (MS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.030: \"Man-Machine Interface (MMI) of the User equipment
(MS)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 22.081: \"Line Identification Supplementary Services; Stage 1\".
[11] 3GPP TS 22.135: \"Multicall; Stage 1\".
[12] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification\".
[13] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
## 0.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 1 Framework for the description of telecommunication services
## 1.1 The attribute method of characterization of circuit telecommunication
services
This characterization is made by using a set of attributes. A
telecommunication service attribute is a specific characteristic of that
service whole values distinguish it from other telecommunication services.
Particular values are assigned to each attribute when a given
telecommunication service is described and defined.
A list of definitions of attributes and values used for bearer services and
teleservices is contained in, respectively, annex A and annex B.
# 2 Description of circuit telecommunication services by the attribute method
## 2.1 General
Telecommunication services are described by attributes which define service
characteristics as they apply at a given reference point where the customer
accesses the service. The description of a telecommunication service by the
method of attributes is composed of:
\- technical attributes as seen by the customer; and
\- other attributes associated with the service provision, e.g. operational
and commercial attributes.
## 2.2 Categorisation of telecommunication services
The concepts introduced in the present document are illustrated in table1.
Table 1: Categorisation of telecommunication services
* * *
TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES
BEARER SERVICE TELESERVICE
Basic\ Basic Bearer service + supplementary services Basic Teleservice Basic
Teleservice + supplementary service Bearer\  
Service
* * *
# 3 Characterization of circuit telecommunication services
## 3.1 General
A telecommunication service supported by a PLMN is characterized and described
by service attributes.
There are two groups of service attributes applicable to user information
flow:
\- low layer attributes;
\- high layer attributes.
Bearer services are characterized only by low layer attributes. Teleservices
are characterized by both low layer attributes and high layer attributes.
The basic characteristics of a telecommunication service are described by the
basic service attributes.
The additional characteristics associated with a supplementary service which
modify or supplement a basic telecommunication service are described in
Specification 3GPP TS 22.004 [7].
## 3.2 Bearer services
Bearer services are characterized by a set of low layer attributes in
Specification 3GPP TS 22.002[5]. These attributes are classified into four
categories:
\- information transfer attributes;
\- access attributes;
\- interworking attributes;
\- general attributes, including operational and commercial attributes.
The bearer capability defines the technical features of a bearer service as
they appear to the user at the appropriate access point. For the time being,
the bearer capability is characterized by information transfer, access and
interworking attributes. A bearer capability is associated with every bearer
service.
## 3.3 Teleservices
Circuit teleservices provide the full capacity for communication by means of
terminals and network functions and possibly functions provided by dedicated
centres.
Circuit teleservices are specified in 3GPP TS 22.003 [6]. Teleservices are
characterized by a set of low layer attributes, a set of high layer attributes
and operational and commercial attributes.
Low layer attributes are those used to characterize the bearer capability.
High layer attributes are used in Specification 3GPP TS 22.003 [6] to describe
high layer (i.e. layer 4-7) information transfer related characteristics. They
refer to functions and protocols of layers 4-7 in the ITU-T Recommendation
X.200 framework which are concerned with the transfer, storage and processing
of user messages (provided by a subscriber\'s terminal, a retrieval centre or
a network service centre).
Therefore, not all attributes can be applied directly at the user to terminal
interface as they represent two kinds of features, the bearer capability and
the terminal features, that are not directly perceived by the user.
# 4 Provision of telecommunication services
Specifications 3GPP TS 22.101[4] and 3GPP TS 22.011 [13] define some aspects
of the provisions of telecommunication services by a 3GPP system.
The provision of telecommunication services implies:
\- subscription of basic services and possibly subscription to supplementary
services;
\- registration into a service directory;
\- compatibility between terminals;
\- interworking capabilities (see 3GPP TS 29 series of specifications).
The user\'s subscription to a Basic or Supplementary service is normally
verified by the network prior to completion of Call Establishment and/or
Supplementary Service operation. This subscription checking shall be performed
in accordance with the following subclauses.
## 4.1 Subscription checking for Basic Services
**General**
Subscription checking is the function/process to ascertaining whether a
subscriber has the authorization to use the particular Basic Service deduced
from the call set-up parameters. It is the responsibility of the HPLMN to
transfer, to the VPLMN, only the subscription data corresponding to those
services a given subscriber is entitled to use in that VPLMN.
For mobile originated calls, subscription checking is performed in the VLR,
whilst for mobile terminated calls it is performed in either the HLR or the
VLR (determined as described below). The prerequisite for executing the
subscription check is a successful deduction of a Basic Service from the
Compatibility Information contained in the call set up, i.e. Bearer Capability
Information Element and, in some cases, also the Low Layer and High Layer
Compatibility Information elements.
For mobile originated calls an UE shall indicate the requested service by
appropriate compatibility information elements according to 3GPP TS 27.001
[8]. This information is mapped to an individual Basic Service code (i.e. the
MAP representation) by the MSC in order to be compared with the subscriber
data available in the VLR.
An equivalent process is required in the HLR for mobile terminated calls,
where the caller\'s requested service is indicated to the HLR (by the ISDN) by
exhaustive compatibility information consisting of ISDN Bearer Capability
Information Elements and in some cases - depending on the service requested -
also of Low Layer and High layer Compatibility information elements. In case
the compatibility information is not exhaustive, e.g. when the call is
originated/transited by a PSTN, no Basic Service can be deduced and
subscription checking cannot be performed in the \"normal\" way. Instead,
rules for the Single and Multi Numbering Schemes apply.
In the Multi Numbering Scheme the Basic Service can be deduced by information
stored in the HLR against the called number and hence an implicit subscription
check is performed. In the Single Numbering Scheme, the Basic Service cannot
be deduced until the UE has responded to the set up and therefore the HLR
cannot perform subscription check. Instead, the VLR/MSC will perform the
subscription check or calls are passed \"unfiltered\" (as regards subscription
check), at the network operators\' discretion.
**Bearer Services**
3GPP TS 22.002 [5] lists the Bearer Services, each of them with a specific
\"BS number\". Single services defined independent of the fixed network user
rate are called General Bearer Services. These distinct [numbered] services
may individually be provided to a subscriber. Whichever the subscription
arrangements are, all PLMNs (MSCs, VLRs and HLRs) shall be able to allow - as
regards subscription checking - the use of individually subscribed-to Basic
Services, within the range of services supported by the PLMN. That is,
whenever it is possible to deduce the Basic Service from a call set up,
subscription check shall be performed at the granularity of that particular
Basic Service or the group to which it belongs.
**TeleServices**
3GPP TS 22.003 [6] lists the TeleServices, each of them with a specific \"TS
number\". These may be provided to subscribers individually or combined, to
the operators\' discretion, however TS 12 (Emergency calls) and TS 23 (CBS)
are not subscribable. But, as for Bearer Services, networks shall be able to
handle subscription checking at the granularity of individual TeleServices.
Table 2 summarizes the basis on which a successful subscription checking will
result. It also describes on which basis Supplementary Service handling for a
given call set-up should be performed.
Table 2
+--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | Set Up | Subscription Check | SS handling | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | BS 20 | BS 20 | BS Group 2x | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | BS 30 | BS 30 | BS Group 3x | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | TS 11 | TS 11, TS Group 1x or TS | TS Group 1x | | | Group All | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | TS 12 | N.A. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | TS 21 | TS 21, TS Group 2x or TS | TS Group 2x | | | Group All | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | TS 22 | TS 22, TS Group 2x or TS | TS Group 2x | | | Group All | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | TS 23 | N.A. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | TS 61 | TS 61, TS Group 6x or TS | TS Group 6x | | | Group All | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | TS 62 | TS 61, 62, Group 6x or | TS Group 6x | | | TS Group All | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | TS 91 | TS 91, TS Group 9x or TS | TS Group 9x | | | Group All | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | TS 92 | TS 92, TS Group 9x or TS | TS Group 9x | | | Group All | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | Legend: | | | | | | | | - set-up: The Basic | | | | Service which is set up | | | | for the call; | | | | | | | | - subscription check: | | | | Required VLR or HLR data | | | | for successful | | | | subscription check; | | | | | | | | - SS handling: Against | | | | which VLR or HLR data SS | | | | handling should be | | | | performed. For example; | | | | a call set-up indicating | | | | BS61 and Asynchronous | | | | mode should be treated | | | | for SS purposes in\ | | | | accordance with the | | | | SS-data stored against | | | | BS group 2x. | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+
When TS61 is requested in a call set-up and the subscription check for TS61 is
negative, but a subscription check for TS62 is positive, then the call shall
proceed according to the TS 22.003 [6]and TS 27.001 [8]. If a subscription
check for both TS61 and TS62 is negative, then the call shall be released.
## 4.2 Subscription checking for Supplementary Services
This is described in 3GPP TS 22.004 [7].
###### ## Annex A (normative): List of definition of attributes and values
used for bearer services
# A.1 Information transfer attributes
## A.1.1 Information transfer capability
This attribute describes the capability associated with the transfer of
different types of information through a PLMN and another network or through a
PLMN.
Values:
\- unrestricted digital information;\ transfer of information sequence of bits
at its specified bit rate without alteration; this implies bit sequence
independence, digit sequence integrity and bit integrity.
\- speech;\ digital representation of speech information and audible
signalling tones of the PSTN coded according to the encoding rule defined in
the 3GPP TS 26 series of specifications.
\- 3,1 kHz Ex PLMN;\ unrestricted digital information transfer within the PLMN
and 3.1 kHz audio restricted within the ISDN.
\- group 3 Fax;\ transfer of Group 3 Fax information.
## A.1.2 Information transfer mode
This attribute describes the operational mode of transferring (transportation
and switching) through a PLMN.
Values:
\- circuit.
## A.1.3 Information transfer rate
This attribute describes the bit rate (circuit mode). It refers to the
transfer of digital information between two access points or reference points.
Values:
\- appropriate bit rate, throughput rate.
## A.1.4 Structure
This attribute refers to the capability of the PLMN and if involved other
networks to deliver information to the destination access point or reference
point in a structure.
Note: This attribute has not been utilised in 3GPP TS 22.002 [5] or 3GPP TS
22.003 [6].
Values:
\- not applicable.
## A.1.5 Establishment of communication
This attribute associated with a telecommunication service describes the mode
of establishment used to establish and a given communication.
In every telecommunication service communication may be between users within
the PLMN or between a user in the PLMN and a user in another network.
Values:
\- demand Mobile Originated (MO) only;
\- demand Mobile Terminated (MT) only;
\- demand Mobile Originated or Terminated (MO, MT).
## A.1.6 Communication configuration
This attribute describes the spatial arrangement for transferring information
between two or more access points. It completes the structure associated to a
telecommunication services as it associates the relationship between the
access points involved and the flow of information between these access
points.
Values:
\- point-to-point communication;\ this value applies when there are only two
access points.
\- multipoint communication;\ this value applies when more than two access
points (1) are provided by the service. The exact characteristics of the
information flows must be specified separately based on functions provided by
the PLMN.
NOTE 1: The number of access points can be undefined.
\- broadcast communication;\ this value applies when more than two access
points (2) are provided by the service. The information flows are from a
unique point (source) to the others (destination) in only one direction.
NOTE 2: The number of destination access points can be undefined.
## A.1.7 Symmetry
This attribute describes the relationship of information flow between two (or
more) access points or reference points involved in a communication.
It characterizes the structure associated to a communication service.
Values:
\- unidirectional;\ this value applies when the information flow is provided
only in one direction.
\- bidirectional symmetric;\ this value applies when the information flow
characteristics provided by the service are the same between two (or more)
access points or reference points in the forward and backward directions.
\- bidirectional asymmetric;\ this value applies when the information flow
characteristics provided by the service are different in the two directions.
## A.1.8 Data compression
This attribute indicates whether use of a data compression function is desired
(and accepted) between an MT and IWF.
Values:
\- use of data compression requested/not requested;
\- use of data compression accepted/not accepted.
# A.2 Attributes describing the access at the user equipment
## A.2.1 Signalling access
This attribute characterized the protocol on the signalling channel at a given
access point or reference point Values:
\- manual;
\- appropriate V-series protocol;
\- appropriate X-series protocol;
\- I-series stack of signalling protocols.
## A.2.2 Information access
### A.2.2.1 Rate
This attribute describes either the bit rate (circuit mode including
transparent access to a PSPDN) or variable bit rate (packet mode) used to
transfer the user information at a given access point or reference.
Values:
\- appropriate bit rate;
\- variable bit rate.
### A.2.2.2 Interface
This attribute describes the interface according to the protocol used to
transfer user information at a given access point or reference.
Values:
\- appropriate V-series DTE/DCE interface;
\- appropriate X-series interface;
\- S interface;
\- analogue 4-Wire interface.
# A.3 Interworking attribute
## A.3.1 Type of terminating network
Communication can be established between a UE in a PLMN (originating network)
and a terminal in a network (terminating network) including the same PLMN or
another PLMN. The attribute designates the terminating network.
NOTE 1: The terms \"originating\" and \"terminating\" do not indicate the
direction of communication establishment.
NOTE 2: This attribute does not reflect whether there is none, one or several
transit networks between the originating and terminating networks.
Values:
\- PSTN;
\- ISDN;
\- PSPDN;
\- PDN;
\- PLMN;
\- direct access networks.
## A.3.2 Terminal to terminating network interface
This attribute describes the interface between a terminal equipment and the
terminating network.
Values:
\- appropriate V-series (DTE/DCE) interface;
\- appropriate X-series interface;
\- analogue 2 resp. 4 wire interface;
\- S interface (D+B+B).
# A.4 General attributes
## A.4.1 Supplementary services provided
This attribute refers to the supplementary services to a given
telecommunication service.
Values:
\- appropriate supplementary services.
## A.4.2 Quality of service
The Bearer Services use the Quality of Service attribute to indicate one of
the following values:
\- transparent;\ service characterized by constant throughput, constant
transit delay and variable error rate.
\- non-transparent;\ service characterized by an improved error rate with
variable transit delay and throughput.
## A.4.3 Commercial and operational
## A.4.4 Service interworking
###### ## Annex B (normative): List of definitions of attributes and values
used for teleservices
# B.1 High layer attributes
## B.1.1 Type of user information
This attribute describes the type of information which the communication
offered to the user by the teleservice is based on.
Values:
\- speech;
\- short message;
\- facsimile.
## B.1.2 Layer 4 protocol functions
## B.1.3 Layer 5 protocol functions
## B.1.4 Layer 6 protocol functions
## B.1.5 Layer 7 protocol functions
# B.2 Low layer attribute (bearer capabilities)
The low layer attributes describe the bearer capabilities which support the
teleservice. These low layer attributes and their values are the same as
presented in Annex A: List of definitions of attributes and values used for
bearer services.
# B.3 General attributes
The general attributes are the same as presented in annex A: List of
definitions and values used for bearer services.
###### ## Annex C (normative): Definition of \"busy\" in a PLMN
# C.1 Scope
This annex describes the conditions under which a given mobile subscriber
(station) is considered as \"busy\". In general, this occurs whenever the
resources associated with that UE (and needed to successfully complete the
call) exist but are not available for that call. The description is based on
the busy definition in the ISDN (CCITT Recommendation I.221).
In addition, the operation of some Supplementary Services occurs when certain
of these resources are busy. Therefore, these \"resources busy\" are also
described herein.
This annex does not cover the cases, when network resources not associated
with a given destination are unavailable, or when such resources are out-of-
service or otherwise non-functional.
# C.2 Network Determined User Busy (NDUB) condition
This condition occurs, when a call is about to be offered, if the information
(i.e. traffic) channel is busy and the maximum number of total calls has been
reached (see note).
This condition also occurs, when a call is about to be offered and an already
on-going call attempt (incoming or outgoing) is in the establishing phase,
i.e. not yet active.
When NDUB condition occurs, the PLMN will clear the call and indicate \"busy\"
back towards the calling subscriber (see also clause 4).
NOTE: The value of the maximum number of calls is 1 for the basic call. When
the supplementary service \"Call Waiting\" is applicable the value is n+1
where n is the maximum number of calls that can be waiting.
3GPP TS 22.135 [11] defines NDUB for Multicall environment.
# C.3 User Determined User Busy (UDUB) condition
This condition occurs when a call is offered to a user equipment and the UE
responds \"user busy\" because the subscribers resources (terminal or person
using them) are busy. Then the PLMN will clear the call with the indication
\"busy\" back towards the calling subscriber (see also clause 4).
# C.4 Mobile subscriber busy
A mobile subscriber is considered to be busy if either a \"Network Determined
User Busy\" or a \"User Determined User Busy\" condition occurs.
Some supplementary services (e.g. Call Forwarding on Busy) may cause the call
not to be cleared when a busy condition occurs.
###### ## Annex D (normative): Call set-up procedures
# D.1 Scope
This annex specifies the service requirements for call set-up, both Mobile
originated and mobile terminated, in a network, including the establishment of
radio contact.
# D.2 Mobile Originated Call Set-up
When an UE wishes to start a call and there is no existing radio connection,
it requests a signalling channel. When such a signalling channel has been
allocated to the UE, the UE can transfer the call set-up information.
A traffic channel may be allocated at any time before the network informs the
UE that the remote user has answered.
For a call to be set up, certain information needs to be sent by the UE to the
network, defining the call. This information may be provided as default by the
MS, it may be derived from the SIM/USIM or be entered by the user either
directly into the UE or from a DTE by using the DTE/DCE Interface.
The following information is sent. Where necessary, default values will
generally be inserted by the UE if not directly specified by the user. The
Teleservice Emergency Calls are set up using a special procedure not using the
fields described in this clause (except for the Bearer Capability).
## D.2.1 Called Party Address
This is the address of the called party, generally as defined in 3GPP TS
23.003 [14], using the TON/NPI specified below
## D.2.2 Calling/Called Party Sub-address
This is the sub-address of the calling/called party, as defined in 3GPP TS
23.003 [14], in order to provide interworking with ISDN. This is described in
more detail in ETS 300 059. Support and use of these fields are optional.
## D.2.3 Type of Number
This indicates the format of the called party address. The selection procedure
is given in 3GPP TS 22.030 [9]. The following Types of Number are commonly
used:
\- International Format;
\- Open Format (\"Unknown\");
## D.2.4 Number Plan Indicator
This indicates the number plan of the called party address. Either of the
following number plans may be the \"default\", depending on the contents of
the Called Party Address (see 3GPP TS 22.030 [9]):
\- ISDN/Telephony E.164;
\- unknown.
Alternatively, one of these number plans may be specified if appropriate:
\- data network X.121;
\- telex network F.69;
\- National Numbering Plan;
\- Private Numbering Plan.
## D.2.5 Bearer Capability
This is used to define the type of call to be set up (telephony, data, rate
etc.) For most applications, the UE will use a set of default conditions,
generally on the assumption of a telephony call, unless otherwise set. These
may be overridden by the user (or DTE via the DTE/DCE Interface) if desired
except for the determination of the channel mode (full or half rate, speech
codec conversion).
The UE shall indicate to the network its channel mode capability in terms of
the data channels and the speech codec versions supported.
The network decides which mode to use on the basis of the requested bearer or
teleservice, the available network resources and the channel mode capability
of the UE:
\- for the \"alternate\" and \"followed-by\" services, the same principle
applies (with the exception of TS61, where a Full Rate or an Enhanced Full
Rate channel shall be provided);
\- for the full set of parameters and values, refer to 3GPP TS 24.008 [12];
\- for data services see the 3GPP TS 27 series.
Lower Layer Compatibility and Higher Layer Compatibility Information Elements
may also be included.
## D.2.6 Calling Line Indication Restriction Override
If the user wishes to override the calling line identification restriction, he
may indicate this on a per-call basis as described in 3GPP TS 22.030 [9] and
3GPP TS 22.081 [10].
## D.2.7 Action of the Network on Call Set-up
On receipt of the call set-up message, the network shall attempt to connect
the call. However, if insufficient information has been provided by the UE to
indicate the exact Bearer Capability requirements (e.g. due to missing or
optional values or for rate adaptation for data), the network may insert the
missing information, if this is possible, and the call set-up shall proceed
using the new information. If the call set-up is unsuccessful, the network
shall notify the UE of the cause.
# D.3 Mobile Terminated Call Set-up
Using the procedures described in 3GPP TS 22.011, the network knows the
location area where the UE is positioned. If the UE is not already in two way
radio communication with the network, the network pages the MS. Upon receiving
its page message, the UE establishes communication with the selected cell. The
network then allocates a channel which is used for signalling and sends call
set-up information to the UE.
A traffic channel may be allocated at any instant until just after the call is
answered by the UE.
The network indicates to the UE that it wishes to offer the UE a call. This
notification includes the proposed bearer capability information, where
available (see subclause D.2.5).
## D.3.1 Bearer Type
If the calling party specifies the required bearer capability this shall be
used for the call set-up attempt. If the calling party does not specify the
required bearer capability (e.g. because the call originated in the PSTN), the
network shall attempt to determine the bearer capability to be used as
described below.
The network may use a multi-numbering scheme to define the bearer capability
by the MSISDN. In a multi-numbering scheme several MSISDNs are associated with
one IMSI. Each MSISDN is used for a different bearer capability. If the
network uses a multi-numbering scheme and the calling party has not specified
the required bearer capability then the network shall use the bearer
capability associated with the called party MSISDN.
The network may use a single-numbering scheme, in which one MSISDN is
associated with each IMSI. If the network uses a single-numbering scheme and
the calling party has not specified the required service then the network
shall omit the bearer capability information.
## D.3.2 Response of the UE
On receipt of the call set-up request from the network, the UE shall check
that it is able to support the type of call requested and that it is not User
Determined User Busy (see annex C). The UE then alerts the user.
If the UE is unable to support the type of call requested, or the information
is incomplete, the UE shall, if possible and not restricted by requirements in
other ETSs, reply to the network proposing an alternative set of parameters,
indicating those that are different from those proposed by the network. The
network then either accepts this new proposal or terminates the call attempt.
## D.3.3 Description of Call Re-establishment
Call re-establishment allows the user equipment to attempt to reconnect a call
following the loss of radio coverage between the UE and the network while a
call is in progress. Call re-establishment may be initiated by the UE when it
detects this situation, if supported in the network.
Call re-establishment is mandatory in the ME and optional in the network.
###### ## Annex E (normative): Automatic calling repeat call attempt
restrictions
Call set up attempts referred to in this annex are assumed to be initiated
from peripheral equipment or automatically from the MT itself.
A repeat call attempt may be made when a call attempt is unsuccessful for the
reasons listed below (as defined in 3GPP TS 24.008 [13]).
These reasons are classified in three major categories:
1) \"Busy destination\":
\- cause number 17 User busy.
2) \"Unobtainable destination - temporary\":
\- cause number 18 No user responding;
19 User alerting, no answer;
27 Destination out of order;
34 No circuit/channel available;
41 Temporary failure;
42 Switching Equipment congestion;
44 Requested circuit/channel not available;
47 Resources unavailable, unspecified.
3) \"Unobtainable destination - permanent/long term\":
\- cause number 1 Unassigned (unallocated) number;
3 No route to destination;
22 Number changed;
28 Invalid number format (uncompleted number);
38 Network out of order.
NOTE 1: Optionally, it is allowed to implement cause number 27 in Category 3,
instead of Category 2, as this is desirable already in Phase 1.
The table below describes a repeat call restriction pattern to any B number.
This pattern defines a maximum number (n) of call repeat attempts; when this
number n is reached, the associated B number shall be blacklisted by the MT
until a manual re-set at the MT is performed in respect of that B number. When
a repeat attempt to anyone B number fails, or is blacklisted, this does not
prevent calls being made to other B numbers.
For the categories 1 and 2 above, n shall be 10; for category 3, n shall be 1.
* * *
call attempts Minimum duration between Call attempt
Initial call attempt -
1st repeat attempt 5 sec
2nd repeat attempt 1 min
3rd repeat attempt 1 min
4th repeat attempt 1 min
5th repeat attempt 3 min
nth repeat attempt 3 min
* * *
The number of B numbers that can be held in the blacklist is at the
manufacturers discretion but there shall be at least 8. However, when the
blacklist is full the MT shall prohibit further automatic call attempts to any
one number until the blacklist is manually cleared at the MT in respect of one
or more B numbers.
When automatic calling apparatus is connected to an MT1 or MT2, or where an
MTO is capable of auto-calling, then the MT shall process the call requests in
accordance with the sequence of repeat attempts defined above, i.e. requests
for repeat attempts with less than the minimum allowed duration between them
shall be rejected by the MT.
A successful call attempt to a number which has been subject to the call
restrictions shown above (i.e. an unsuccessful call set up attempt has
previously occurred) shall reset the \"counter\" for that number.
The \"counter\" for an unsuccessfully attempted B number shall be maintained
in 24 hours or until the MT is switched off.
The automatic calling repeat call attempt restrictions apply to speech and
data services.
NOTE 2: The restrictions only apply to unsuccessful Call Control activity, not
to Radio Resource Management or to Mobility Management, so multiple attempts
at radio channel access are not limited by this mechanism.
###### ## Annex F(informative): Procedures for call progress indications
# F.1 General
Indications of call progress, such as ringing, engaged, unobtainable, and no
radio channel, may in principle be verbal message, tones, displayed text or
graphical symbols. Which combination of these applies may depend on the
message, the UE and selection by the user or PLMN operator. However, verbal
announcements will generally be reserved for situations which are peculiar to
a mobile network, where users may be unfamiliar with any tone chosen to
indicate conditions such as \"call diversion\" or \"subscriber not
available\".
It may also be desirable to add comfort indications (e.g. tones, noise, music,
clicks) while a call is being connected, since silence may cause an unfamiliar
user to believe that nothing is happening.
Generally, on data calls, and on the data part of alternate speech/data or
speech-followed-by-data calls, PLMN generated network tones and announcements
should be muted.
# F.2 Supervisory tones
## F.2.1 General
Supervisory Tones, indicating primarily ringing, engaged and unobtainable
numbers, may be generated by both the PLMN and PSTN.
Except for ring tone, all tones indicating call progress to a user shall be
generated in the UE, on the basis of signals from the network where available,
and are according to the standard defined in the present document.
Tones sent to a caller to a UE will be generated in the network, generally
local to the caller, and will be to the standard of his local exchange, except
for mobile to mobile calls, where the tones will be generated in the calling
UE. For mobile terminated calls, the ring tone will be generated in the called
MSC (except OACSU).
## F.2.2 Method
In the interests of early release of the traffic channel on failure to succeed
in setting up a (mobile originated) call, where possible supervisory tones
should be indicated over signalling channels. The UE will then generate the
required tones. However, if the network generates an in-band announcement this
will be indicated to the UE. In this case the UE shall connect the user to the
announcement until instructed to release the call, either by the user or by
the network. An alternate procedure may apply for UE able to generate
appropriate announcements internally.
The ring tone will be sent over the traffic channel, since this channel must
be available for traffic immediately it is answered (exception: Off Air Call
Set Up). The Ring Tone is therefore generated by the PLMN or PSTN supporting
the called phone.
On failed mobile terminated call attempts, the called MSC will either signal
to the caller, if this is possible, or else will generate the required
supervisory tones.
\"Alert\" is not a supervisory tone. The indication is signalled, and the UE
may generate any form of indication to the user that the UE is being called.
## F.2.3 Standard tones
UE generated tones will be generally in accordance with CEPT, ANSI T1.607, or
Japan recommendations, where appropriate, and are listed in table 1. Any
network originated tones will be according to PLMN or PSTN choice.
## F.2.4 Applicability
This method will apply in all cases where signalling is capable of indicating
the supervisory tone required. However, for connection to certain fixed
networks where this signalling is not possible, fixed network tones will be
carried over the traffic channel.
User equipment may employ any suitable technique to indicate supervisory
information. However, if tones are employed, they shall be in accordance with
the present document. The use of these tones in the MSC is preferred.
NOTE 1: The tones and/or announcement to the calling party should not be
provided if the Information transfer capability is set to UDI.
NOTE 2: For a call with information transfer capability set to 3.1 kHz, the
use of tones and/or announcement may cause the expiry of an awaiting answer
timer in a modem or fax machine.
## F.2.5 Comfort tones
If desired by the PLMN operator, the network may optionally introduce
\"comfort tones\" while the call is being connected, during what would
otherwise be silence. This would be overridden by indication of a supervisory
tone, an announcement or by traffic. PLMNs may offer this feature optionally
to incoming or outgoing callers.
The \"comfort tones\" may take the form of tones, clicks, noise, music or any
other suitable form, provided that they cannot be confused with other
indications that might be expected.
This feature is intended to indicate to the user that his call is progressing,
to prevent him terminating the call prematurely.
> Table 1: Supervisory tones in UEs
Tone |  | Frequency | Tolerance | Type |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | CEPT | ANSI | Japan | CEPT ANSI | Japan | CEPT | ANSI | Japan  
1 | Dial tone (optional) | 425 Hz | 350 Hz added to 440 Hz | 400 Hz | 15 Hz | 20Hz | Conti-nuous | Continuous | Conti-nuous  
2 * | Subscriber Busy (Called Number) | 425 Hz | 480 Hz added to 620 Hz | 400 Hz | 15 Hz | 20Hz | Tone on 500ms  
Silence 500ms | Tone on 500ms  
Silence 500ms | Tone on 500ms Silence 500ms  
3 * | Congestion | 425 Hz | 480 Hz added to 620 Hz | Optional | 15 Hz | Optional | Tone on 200ms  
Silence 200ms | Tone on 250ms  
Silence 250ms | Optional  
4 | Radio Path  
Acknowledgement (Mobile  
Originated only) (optional) | 425 Hz | 425 Hz | 400 Hz | 15 Hz | 20 Hz | Single tone 200ms | Single tone 200ms | Tone on 1 Sec Silence 2 Sec  
5 | {Radio Path Not Available  
{Call Dropped – Mobile originated only | 425 Hz | 425 Hz | Optional | 15 Hz | Optional | 200ms} On/off 200ms} for 3  
burst | 200ms} On/off 200ms} for 3 burst | Optional  
6 * | Error/Special Information} Number Unobtainable } Authentication Failure } | 950 Hz 1400 Hz 1800 Hz | 950 Hz 1400 Hz 1800 Hz | Optional | 50 Hz 50 Hz 50 Hz | Optional | {Triple Tone {Tones on 330ms {Silence 1.0s | Triple Tone {Tones on 330ms {Silence 1.0s | Optional  
7 | Call Waiting Tone (CEPT) | 425 Hz (tolerance 15 Hz), on for 200 ms, off for 600 ms on for 200 ms, off for 3 s, on for 200 ms, off for 600 ms on for 200 ms. This tone is superimposed on the audio traffic received by the called user. Alternate tones are _acceptable_ but not preferred. |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
7 | Call Waiting Tone (ANSI) | 440 Hz, on for 300 ms, 9,7 s off followed by (440 Hz, on for 100 ms off for 100 ms, on for 100 ms, 9,7s off and repeated as necessary) This tone is superimposed on the audio traffic received by the called user. |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
7 | Call Waiting Tone (Japan) | Optional |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Definition of these and other tones, together with advice on announcements, may be found in CEPT T/CS 20-15 and in T/SF 23. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE: *: The duration of these tones is an implementation option. However, in each case, the UE should be returned immediately to the idle state, and will be able to originate/receive calls, which will override these tones. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Ringing Tone (Alternative National options permitted) | 425Hz | 440 Hz added to 480 Hz | Optional | 15 Hz | Optional | Tone on 1 s Silence 4 s | Tone on 2 s Silence 4 s | Optional |   
For application of Call Control Cause Information Elements to these tones, see F.4. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
# F.3 Recorded announcements
In present networks, both fixed and cellular, the language of recorded
announcements and displayed information is invariably that of the country of
origin. However, this is generally undesirable in a multi-lingual environment
such as is encountered on a global network with international roaming. It is
therefore probably desirable to minimise the number of such announcements.
Advanced UEs may be designed which have the ability to generate announcements
in the form desired by the user, e.g. in the language preferred by the user.
In this case, it becomes necessary to block any verbal announcements sent from
the network towards the UE, to avoid clashes with those generated by the UE.
The UE may be allowed to block in-band announcements in case appropriate
announcements according to the Cause Information Elements (F.3) can be
generated. The default setting of the UE shall be \"non blocking\", which
could be set by MMI command to \"blocking\".
Announcements generated by the PLMN and sent to callers to that PLMN will
generally be in the language of the PLMN. However, on some fixed networks it
will be possible for the message to be signalled back to the caller\'s local
exchange, which will then generate the announcement in its local language.
# F.4 Application of call control cause information elements to supervisory
tones
The Cause Information Elements are listed and defined in 3GPP TS 24.008 [12].
This annex lists these elements and indicates which supervisory tone should be
generated in response. It should be noted that some conditions (e.g. radio
path not available, dropped call) may be deduced by the UE, rather than
signalled explicitly over the air interface. All causes not listed below
should result in the generation of tone 6. In case of multiple calls a tone
should only be generated if it does not disturb an ongoing active call. \"-\"
indicates no tone required.
Cause Tone
CC (see table 1)
16 Normal Clearing 1
17 User Busy 2
22 Number Changed -
30 Response to STATUS ENQUIRY -
31 Normal, unspecified -
34 No circuit/channel available 3
41 Temporary Failure 3
42 Switching Equipment Congestion 3
44 Requested circuit/channel not available 3
49 Quality of Service Unavailable 3
58 Bearer Capability not available 3
#