# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the Service Aspects of charging and billing of
the 3GPP System.
The present document is not intended to duplicate existing standards or
standards being developed by other groups on these topics, and will reference
these where appropriate. The present document will elaborate on the charging
requirements described in the Charging Principles in 3GPP TS 22.101 Service
Principles. It will allow the generation of accurate charging information to
be used in the commercial and contractual relationships between the parties
concerned.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service Principles\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.066: \"Support of Mobile Number Portability (MNP)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.234: \"Requirements for 3GPP system to wireless local area
network (WLAN) interworking\".
[4] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
[5] 3GPP TS 22.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) supplementary services\"
[6] ETS 300 178: \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN); Advice of
Charge: charging information at call set-up time (AOC-S) supplementary
service; Service description\"
[7] ETS 300 179: \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN); Advice of
Charge: charging information during the call (AOC-D) supplementary service;
Service description\"
[8] ETS 300 180: \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN); Advice of
Charge: charging information at the end of the call (AOC-E) supplementary
service; Service description\"
[9] TS 183 047: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); NGN IMS Supplementary Services;
Advice Of Charge (AOC)\"
[10] TS 183 058: \"Telecommunications and Internet Converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); SIP Transfer of IP Multimedia
Service Tariff Information;Protocol specification\"
[11] void
[12] 3GPP TS 22.220, \"Service requirements for Home NodeBs and Home eNodeBs\"
[13] 3GPP TS 22.278, \"Service requirements for the Evolved Packet System
(EPS)\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the definitions in [4] are
supplemented by the following definitions:
**Prepay service:** A prepay service allows a subscriber to pay in advance for
the use of specific services, the prepay account may be updated each time the
subscriber uses the services related to that account.
**Real time:** Time, typically in number of seconds, to perform the on-line
mechanism used for fraud control and cost control.
**Session:** logical connection between parties involved in a packet switched
based communication This term is used for IP connections rather than the term
\"call\" that is normally used for a connection over conventional (circuit
switched) systems.
Note: Information about charging is typically collected in Charging Data
Records (CDR).
**Local Charging Zone (LCZ):** A logical grouping of a number of cells, where
a special tariff applies for a select group of users. A network may have a
number of LCZs. A LCZ does not necessarily need to be aligned with an LA or
RA, i.e. the border of LCZ may not be the border of an LA or RA.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document the definition of abbreviations in
[4] apply.
# 4 Main Requirements and High Level Principles
The main new requirements for 3GPP system charging and accounting are:
\- to provide charging information for all charges incurred and requiring
settlement between the different commercial roles;
\- to allow fraud control by the Home Environment and the Serving network;
\- to allow cost control by the charged party;
\- to provide at the beginning of a chargeable event an indication to the
charged party (if involved in the chargeable event) of the charges to be
levied for this event;
\- to allow itemised billing for all services charged to each subscription,
including voice and data calls, and services offered by home environments;
\- to enable the Home environment to provide a Prepay Service and to enable
the serving network to support that Prepay Service for the Home environment's
subscribers;
\- to allow interconnect (inter-operator) charging including mobile/fixed
operator to mobile/fixed operator (circuit switched & IP), and mobile/fixed
operator to IP network provider; and mobile/fixed operator to I-WLAN operator;
\- to allow Network operator to 3^rd^ party supplier (e.g. Value Added Service
Provider) charging;
\- to provide details required for Customer Care purposes;
\- to support the shared network architecture so that end users can be
appropriately charged for their usage of the shared network, and network
sharing partners can be allocated their share of the costs of the shared
network resources.
The high level principles that will guide the charging requirements are
summarised as follows:
\- It shall be possible to charge separately for each type of medium used
(e.g. voice, video, data) in a session and for each service used (e.g. voice
call, streaming video, file download);
\- It shall be possible to charge for different levels of QoS applied for
and/or allocated during a session for each type of medium or service used;
\- It shall be possible to charge each \"leg\" of a session separately. This
includes the incoming and outgoing legs and any forwarded/redirected legs.
(Note: The legs mentioned here are logical legs, i.e. not necessarily
identical to actual signal and traffic flow. Even though tromboning may be
avoided by optimal routing, the operator should still be able to charge for
the 'virtual legs' of the call);
\- It shall be possible to charge unsuccessful calls and sessions (e.g. for
billing purposes, to provide the user a full documentation of his call
attempts);
\- The user can be charged according to the service used irrespective of the
technology used to deliver it. (That is, the charge is not derived from
whether 2G or 3G is used);
\- The user can be charged according to the technology used to deliver a
service. (That is, different charges can be applied on 2G and 3G);
\- It shall be possible to charge a user according to the network resources
used. For example, if a large bandwidth is required to use high quality video,
the user could be charged accordingly. This is related to charging by QoS;
\- It shall be possible to charge users flexibly for the use of extra
resources (in at least the same network) for all legs of the call. For
example, if a video component is added to a voice call the use of extra radio
resource at both ends of the call could be paid for by each user in the call
or totally by the initiating user;
\- It shall be possible to suppress charging for certain types of connection
e.g. when a customer receives tones or network announcements or during
sessions such as automated pre-pay top-up;
\- It shall be possible to apply different charging based on tariff
information provided by a 3^rd^ party. This tariff information may change
during the use of the service (e.g. based on menu selection in a voice
response menu). In this case the requirement applies both for customer-
charging and interconnect-charging;
\- It shall be possible for the home network to charge its customers while
roaming in the same ways as when they are at home. For example, if duration
based charging is used for charging for streaming music in the home network,
then it shall be possible to apply the same principle when the user is
roaming;
\- It shall be possible for operators to have the option to apply charging
mechanisms that are used in GSM/GPRS. For example for duration of a voice
call, for the amount of data transmitted (eg for streaming, file download,
browsing) and for an event (one-off charge);
\- It shall be possible for a network operator to charge its users for
activities while roaming so that the home network will get the capability to
raise service charges depending on the roamed to network, e.g. because of
inter operator charges for the use of service capabilities within the visited
network which will in general depend on the serving network. The ability to
supply all the necessary information for all the charging options will depend
on the capability of the visited network. For service capabilities which are
provided by the home network, however, it is required that the charging
information is collected to allow to identify the serving network of the
served subscriber;
\- It shall be possible for charging to be applied based on location,
presence, push services etc.;
\- The network may provide information to the UE so that the UE is able to
notify and indicate to the user the LCZs it is in. This allows the user to
decide whether to accept/originate the service depending on the LCZs they are
in;
\- It shall be possible to charge using pre-pay, post-pay, advice of charge,
3^rd^ party charging techniques;
\- It shall be possible for the home network to apply different tariffs to
national calls and short messages established/sent by their subscribers while
roaming in their Home PLMN depending on whether or not the called subscriber's
Home PLMN equals the calling subscriber's Home PLMN, rather than on the called
subscriber's MSISDN;
Note: This distinction is necessary only in the case, where the called
subscriber\'s MSISDN may have been ported by Mobile Number Portability.
\- For circuit switched interconnection only a capability is required to
collect information regarding user rate and user protocol at the
interconnection point so that e.g. the identification of CS video telephony at
the interconnection point for inter-network accounting purposes becomes
possible.
These new requirements and principles will allow users more freedom to obtain
service when roaming, whilst providing effective cost and credit control for
the Home Environment and User.
## 4.1 Cross Phase Compatibility
Where possible (e.g. services already defined within earlier releases), the
charging information collected shall be consistent with the information
already provided
It is envisaged that 3GPP system will evolve beyond this Release with the
addition of a number of new requirements for charging and billing, for example
with the addition of a number of new requirements for charging and billing;
these are noted in the appropriate sections below. The technical standards for
each release should be developed in such a way that it is possible and
practical to introduce these requirements, ideally in a backward compatible
manner.
Note: When a change is introduced which affects the 3GPP technical standards,
it is said to be \'backward compatible\' if existing equipment can continue to
operate and perform correctly with equipment that conforms to the new
implementation.
## 4.2 Charging Entity Relationships
In the process of introduction of the all-IP technology there will be a
mixture of different types of entities using different types of technology.
The diagram below shows the different entities involved in charging and their
relationships.
The types of entities and the relevant type of charging as shown on the
diagram are as follows:
  * **Users:** retail charged by Mobile Network Operator or 3^rd^ Party Service Provider.
  * **3^rd^ Party Service Providers:** wholesale charged by Mobile Network Operator.
  * **Other telecommunications operators:** interconnect charging between Mobile Network Operator and non-IP \"circuit-switched\" Network Operators for call traffic carried; usage charging between Mobile Network Operator and IP-based Network Operators for session traffic carried.
  * **Other mobile operators:** roaming charging between these entities, this may require different mechanisms for IP-based types from the traditional \"circuit-switched\" types. Also, where mobile operators need to pass traffic to one another, there will be interconnect charging for non-IP \"circuit switched\" types; usage charging for IP-based types.
  * **I-WLAN operators:** where I-WLAN operators need to pass traffic to mobile operators or mobile operators to I-WLAN operators, there may be roaming and usage charging.
  * **IP backbone carriers:** conveyance charging Mobile Network Operators for traffic carried.
  * **3^rd^ Party content & application suppliers:** supplier charging between Mobile Network Operators and Value Added Service Providers for information exchanged.
  * **3^rd^ Party Portals:** access charging between Mobile Network Operators and this entity.
  * **Internet:** charge for capacity of connection between Mobile Network Operator and Internet. An Operator pays a provider for a connection based on capacity, e.g. annual charge for a 2Mbit/s \"pipe\".
## 4.3 Charging guidelines for IP-Multimedia services
### 4.3.1 User Charging Requirements
This section describes the options required for the charging of end users. The
network operator could charge users directly (retail charging) or charge a
3^rd^ party service provider (wholesale charging). These requirements can
therefore apply to retail and wholesale charging. Note that the word
\"session\" is used to describe the connection between a user and either
another user or a service. This term is used for IP connections rather than
the term \"call\" that is normally used for a connection over conventional
(circuit switched) systems.
The various ways that users can establish sessions and the main components are
described. Also, the required charging options are specified.
#### 4.3.1.1 Session End Point Configurations
A variety of different connection configurations are possible for IP multi-
media independently of the components of the session being used. It should be
possible to charge for the following types of sessions with the options
identified. These charging options should be applicable to each medium
separately. Note that not all the charging options need to be used and that
some of the options can be used only if the particular party is using the
resources of IMS:
The table below lists some example session scenarios and describes some of the
possible charging options for each scenario. The table does not list all
possible session scenarios nor does it list all possible charging options for
the scenarios. Rather, the intent of the table is to emphasize the numerous
charging options that shall be supported by an IP Multimedia System due to the
complexity of sessions possible. The charging options shall adequately account
for all session resources used in order to enable the operators to apply
flexible billing policies and to satisfy regional and/or national regulatory
policies.
In general, any session shall allow for the following charging options:
  * To apply the \"Calling Party Pays\" charging principle;
  * A 3^rd^ party to be charged for all or part of the session;
  * Split charging between any of the parties, including 3^rd^ parties;
  * Session setup and session resources to have different charging rules. Different rules would be applied for example, in a scenario where **A** calls an advertising number, say **B**. **B** could be a web-based toy advertisement number, for example. In this scenario, **A** could pay for the initiation fee (session setup), and **B** could pay for the session resource.
  * Any party can add another media to the current session in progress and any of the parties (not necessarily the one(s) being charged for the current session) can be charged for the additional media. For example, **A** calls **B** and **A** is paying for the audio; **B** adds a wireless video image to the call and pays for that portion. The individual resource set-up and usage should be separately identified. This supports the \"Calling Party Pays\" model;
  * During an active session, media types can change (e.g. audio changed to data) and shall be charged for appropriately. It is thus necessary to be able to detect a change of media during a session so that different rating may be applied.
It should also be noted that during a multi-party session, normally if the
charged party drops off the session, all components being charged to that
party should drop. But it is foreseeable to support a service option that
allows the charged party to continue to be charged even if they drop off the
session. The charging rules should support this option.
+----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | No | CONNECTION | DESCRIPTION | CHARGING OPTIONS | | | | | REQUIRED | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 1 | **A** sets up a | **A** simple | **A** pays for the | | | session to **B** | connection between | session set-up to | | | | 2 subscribers or a | **B** | | | | subscriber and a | | | | | service (eg | **A** pays for the | | | | voicemail) | session resource | | | | | to **B** | | | | | | | | | | **B** pays for the | | | | | session resource | | | | | to **A** | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 2 | **A** sets up a | **A** simple | **B** pays for the | | | session to **B** | connection where | session set-up | | | | **B** is a \"toll | | | | | free\" (800) type | **B** pays for the | | | | service | session resource | | | | | | | | | | **A** pays for | | | | | part of the | | | | | session resource | | | | | (i.e. allowing | | | | | split charging | | | | | between **A** & | | | | | **B**) | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 3 | **A** requests | This is | **A** pays for the | | | session with | redirection. The | session set-up to | | | **B** , **B** | connection path is | **B** | | | redirects to **C** | not set up to | | | | | **B** from **A** , | **A** pays for the | | | | instead **A** is | session resource | | | | told to set up a | to **C** | | | | connection direct | | | | | to **C** | **C** pays for the | | | | | session resource | | | | | to **A** | | | | | | | | | | **A** pays for the | | | | | session resource | | | | | as though it were | | | | | to **B** and **B** | | | | | pays for the | | | | | session resource | | | | | to **C** as though | | | | | it came from **B** | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 4 | **A** requests | This is normal | **A** pays for the | | | session with | forwarding as in | session set-up to | | | **B** , **B** | GSM. The | **B** | | | forwards to **C** | connection path is | | | | | **A** to **B** 's | **A** pays for the | | | | home network and | session resource | | | | **B** 's home | as though it were | | | | network to **C** | to **B** and **B** | | | | | pays for the | | | | | session resource | | | | | to **C**. | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 5 | **A** sets up | **C** onnections to | **A** pays for the | | | sessions with | multiple parties | set-up of each | | | multiple parties | are initiated by | session | | | (Multi-party) | **A** | | | | | | **A** pays for | | | | | each of the | | | | | sessions resource | | | | | to each of the | | | | | called parties | | | | | | | | | | Each of the called | | | | | parties pays for | | | | | the session | | | | | resource to **A** | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 6 | **A** has a | The multiple | Each party pays | | | multi-party | parties in the | for the session | | | session where the | session initiate | set-up to **A** | | | individual parties | the session to | | | | set up the session | **A** | **A** pays for the | | | to **A** | | session resource | | | | | to the multiple | | | | | parties | | | | | | | | | | The individual | | | | | parties in the | | | | | session each pay | | | | | for the session | | | | | resource to **A** | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 7 | **A** is in a | **A** still has a | **A** pays for | | | session with | connection to | each of session | | | **B** , then puts | **B** while also | set-ups to **B** | | | **B** on hold to | in a session with | and **C** | | | set up a session | **C**. The session | | | | with **C** , then | with **B** | **A** pays for the | | | returns to **B** | continues after | session resource | | | after dropping | the session with | to **B** & **C** | | | **C** | **C** is | | | | | terminated | **B** & **C** pay | | | | | for the session | | | | | resource to **A** | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 8 | **A** is in a | **A** still has a | **A** pays for the | | | session with **B** | connection to | session set-up to | | | then answers a | **B** while also | **B** | | | session request | in a session with | | | | from **C** while | **C**. The session | **C** pays for the | | | keeping **B** on | with **B** | session set-up to | | | hold | continues after | **A** | | | | the session with | | | | | **C** is | **A** pays for the | | | | terminated | session resource | | | | | to **B** and **C** | | | | | | | | | | **B** & **C** pay | | | | | for the session | | | | | resource to **A** | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 9 | **A** sets up a | The connection is | **A** pays for the | | | session with **B** | made from **A** to | session set-up to | | | who is roaming in | **B** 's home | **B** | | | another network | network and then | | | | | forwarded to **B** | **A** pays for the | | | | in the visited | session resource | | | | network. (Normal | as though it were | | | | GSM mechanism) | to **B** in his | | | | | home network and | | | | **A** lternatively, | **B** pays for the | | | | **A** is | session resource | | | | redirected | from his home | | | | directly to **B** | network to the | | | | in the visited | visited network | | | | network | | | | | | **A** pays for the | | | | | session resource | | | | | to **B** in the | | | | | visited network | | | | | | | | | | **B** pays for the | | | | | session resource | | | | | to **A** | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+
#### 4.3.1.2 Charging Principles For User Session Components
A number of different components can comprise a session. These components may
be added or dropped from an ongoing session by any participating party. These
components should be individually identifiable for charging purposes.
Generally, the party that adds a component should be responsible for the
payment for the use of the component. However, it should also be possible to
charge all users that need an increase in resource to handle the component. An
example is 2 users in an audio session where one of the users upgrades the
session to videophone session. Both users could be charged extra for the use
of the video component as this requires extra resource at both ends.
Possible components are:
  * Voice
  * Audio (real time)
  * Audio (streaming)
  * Video (real-time)
  * Video (streaming)
  * Data (download/upload)
  * Data interactive eg web browsing
  * Messaging (SMS text type)
  * E-mail
  * Data stream (unspecified content) This is where the network operator acts as a \"bit-pipe\"
It shall be possible to charge for each of these components separately in a
session with the options shown in the table below.
It shall be possible for operators to be able to charge for individual
components of sessions even if there is no identificable service. For example
a proprietary codec may be used to set up an \"end-to-end\" speech session
where the network operator acts as a \"bit-pipe\". In this case, it should be
possible for the operator to charge for this differentially. This type of
component is called \"datastream\" in the table below.
It might not be possible to apply some of the charging mechanism and type
options described below depending on the capability of the networks used.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | COMPONENT | CHARGING MECHANISM | CHARGING TYPE | | | OPTIONS | OPTIONS | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Voice | Charging principles | Charging by duration | | | as described in | of session | | | section 4.3.1.1 | | | | | Charging by QoS | | | | requested and/or | | | | delivered | | | | | | | | One-off set-up | | | | charge | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Real time Audio and | Charging principles | Charging by duration | | Video | as described in | of session | | | section 4.3.1.1 | | | | | Charging by QoS | | | | requested and/or | | | | delivered | | | | | | | | One-off set-up | | | | charge | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Streaming Audio and | Charged to the | Charging by duration | | Video | initiator of the | of session | | | request | | | | | Charging by volume | | | Charged to the | of data, optionally | | | sender of the audio | QoS-differentiated | | | or video | | | | | One-off set-up | | | | charge | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Data (upload or | Charged to the | Charging by duration | | download) | initiator of the | of session | | | request | | | | | Charging by volume | | | Charged to the | of data, optionally | | | sender of the data | QoS-differentiated | | | | | | | | One-off set-up | | | | charge | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Interactive Data | Charged to the | Charging by duration | | | initiator of the | of session | | | session | | | | | Charging by volume | | | | of data, optionally | | | | QoS-differentiated | | | | | | | | One-off set-up | | | | charge | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Messaging (SMS text | Charged to the | Charging by event | | type) | initiator of the | (eg like SMS) | | | message | | | | | Charging by volume | | | Charged to the | of data | | | recipient of the | | | | message | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Unspecified content | Charged to the | Charging by duration | | (data stream) | initiator of the | of session | | | session | | | | | Charging by volume | | | Charged to all | of data (sent & | | | parties involved | received), | | | | optionally | | | | QoS-differentiated | | | | | | | | One-off set-up | | | | charge | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 4.3.1.3 Other Charging Requirements
The user will also be charged for additional activities while in a session,
for example downloaded applications or information. The table below shows some
of these requirements and the priority. [This section will need to be further
developed.]
* * *
CHARGING REQUIREMENT DESCRIPTION Downloaded items User is charged for a
specific item downloaded eg a music file, video clip, application Location
based services User is charged for receiving information on his location
(charging based on accuracy as an option). This could be a stand-alone
location query or linked to another service Content accessed or downloaded
User is charged according to the value of the information. Eg weather
information, share price or other financial information M-Commerce Electronic
transactions to 3^rd^ party suppliers of goods & services Use of portal or
other site User is charged for any access to a portal or any other site. This
could be a one-off charge or based on duration or data volume of the portal or
site use APN and associated content User is charged for access to a specific
APN and for the content associated. Requirements are for further study. Actual
duration of rendered service User is charged (e.g. for premium rate services
or hotline) based on the actual duration of the rendered service
* * *
### 4.3.2 Roaming Charging Requirements
It shall be possible for a network operator to charge its users for activities
while roaming. It shall be possible for a network operator to charge its users
while roaming using the same principles used while on the home network. The
ability to supply all the necessary information for all the charging options
will depend on the capability of the visited network.
In addition, the network operators have to charge each other for the use of
their networks by roaming users. The methods of charging between operators may
be different from the methods used to charge the user. For example, a user may
be charged by duration for voice sessions made while roaming but the home
network may pay the visited network by volume of data used. Based on
preconfiguration or indication from the home network, the serving network may
be aware that charging information per individual subscription is not needed.
In that case the serving network may omit detailed collection of chargeable
events per individual subscription and instead base roaming charging of the
home network on optimised collection of chargeable events.
Mechanisms used in today's networks may also be applied e.g. Inter-Operator
Tariff (IOT).
The table below shows the types of charging principle that networks will
require for roaming settlement and a priority for its provision.
* * *
ITEM CHARGING METHOD DESCRIPTION Charging for session use Sessions made by
users while roaming charged according to the principles described in section
4.3.1.1, above. This includes duration and volume charging Downloaded items
Items downloaded by the user while roaming from providers associated with the
visited network are charged back to the home network for onward charge to the
user Location based services Location information provided by the visited
network is charged back to the home network for possible onward charge to the
user. Content accessed or downloaded Information that is accessed by the user
while roaming from providers associated with the visited network is charged
according to its value by the visited network back to the home network for
onward charge to the user. M-Commerce Charging requirements between visited
and home networks for M-Commerce transactions made by a roaming user are for
further study. Use of portal or other site The visited network may charge the
home network for any access by the roaming user to a local portal or any other
local site. This could be a one-off charge and/or based on duration or data
volume of the portal or site use APN & associated content Charge by visited
network to home network for access to a specific APN and for the content
associated. Requirements are for further study.
* * *
### 4.3.3 Interconnect Charging Requirements
This clause applies (but is not limited) to the following interconnection
scenarios:
\- Interworking between two IMS-based networks
\- Interworking between IMS-based networks and PSTN/ISDN
\- Interworking between IMS-based networks and TISPAN NGN supporting PES
\- IMS transit scenario
The following charging requirements principles and guidelines shall apply for
IMS when interconnected to other systems:
\- Existing, legacy charging principles will need to be retained while there
is a requirement to interwork with non-IP based \"circuit switched\" type of
networks
\- All the charging and accounting information shall be collected as closest
as possible to the interconnection point (subject to network element
performance capabilities).
\- A session or a service instance shall be uniquely identified within a
network domain to allow a correct accounting and charging.
\- The identities of the originating network and of the destination network
shall be unique and transported at signalling layer. This applies also to
transit scenarios.
\- The interconnecting provider(s) will be able to apply Inter Operator Tariff
schemes both for offline and online charging.
\- Charging information will be available for recording at both ends of
interconnected parties. The charging information shall be sufficient to enable
inter operator accounting correlation and inter operator dispute resolution.
When per individual subscription charging information from the other operator
is not needed, interconnect charging may be based on optimised collection of
chargeable events.
\- The real-time transfer of tariff information in interconnection scenarios
shall be supported when the serving network supports it, in order to support
value added services that are billed by the caller\'s operator (e.g. Premium
rate services 0900 or hotlines).
Note: Such services often appear as 3^rd^ party services where the tariff
information resides in the called network and the caller's operator does not
have this information.
> \- This tariff information must be submitted by the external provider in
> realtime, so that the caller\'s operator is capable of
>
> \- providing AoC (Advice of Charge) information to the caller.
>
> \- capturing the imported tariff information into charging records.
The service-hosting network shall provide appropriate charging information to
the caller's operator in a secure way, independently from the realtime
transfer of charging information for AoC purposes.
Note: Where required to support offline charging for third party services
where the tariff information resides in the called network and the caller\'s
operator needs to bill the end user for that service.
### 4.3.4 Conveyance & Usage charging requirements
It shall be possible for network operators (including mobile, fixed and IP
backbone suppliers) to charge each other for the use of resources required to
support user sessions. The items to be charged and the principles to be
applied are described below.
The methods of charging between operators could be different from the methods
used to charge the user. For example, a user may be charged by duration for
voice sessions but the mobile network may pay the fixed network or 3^rd^ party
carrier by volume of data used. When per individual subscription charging
information from the other operator is not needed, conveyance and usage
charging may be based on optimised collection of chargeable events.
* * *
ITEM CHARGING METHOD DESCRIPTION Session use Charging according to the
resources used by duration of session and/or by data volume Quality of Service
Charging by QoS delivered to and from the other network
* * *
### 4.3.5 Charging 3^rd^ parties
It shall be possible for network operators and 3^rd^ parties to charge each
other for the use of their resources. Third parties include content and
application providers and portals.
When per individual subscription charging information is not needed, 3rd party
charging may be based on on optimised collection of chargeable events.
The items that will be charged and the principles are described below:
* * *
ITEM CHARGING METHOD DESCRIPTION Content accessed The 3^rd^ party charges the
end user (via the network operator) for content accessed/downloaded Access to
site The 3^rd^ party is charged by the network operator for each \"hit\" by
its users Location information The 3^rd^ party is charged by the network
operator for information on the location of the user. Amount charged could
depend on accuracy of location information. Presence information The 3^rd^
party is charged by the network operator for presence information about the
user. Pushed information The 3^rd^ party is charged by the network operator
for each message pushed to the user, e.g. advertisements
* * *
### 4.3.6 Advice of Charge (AoC)
The Advice of Charge (AOC) supplementary service allows the served user to be
informed of MMTel session related charging information.
AoC information may occur as:
\- Advice of Charge for Information purposes (AoCI): This supplementary
service provides the information to produce an estimate of the cost of the
service used. This means that the displayed value and the cost of the service
used (e.g. corresponding bill item) may differ.
\- Advice of Charge for Charging purposes (AoCC): This supplementary service
provides the means by which the UE may indicate the charge that will be made
for the use of MMTel service (i.e. the cost of the service used.)
AoC-information may be sent to the served user at the following phases of
communication:
\- Charging information at communication set-up time (AOC-S): When the AOC-S
supplementary service is activated, the IMS shall provide the user with
information about the charging rates at communication establishment. In
addition, the IMS may inform the served user at the communication set-up time
if a change in charging rates is to take place after the communication set-up.
\- Charging information during the communication (AOC-D): After the AOC-D
supplementary service is activated, the IMS shall provide the user with
charging information for a communication during the active phase of this
communication. The supplied charging information shall be provided as a rate
of communication service (e.g. costs per minute) or as a cumulative charge
incurred so far for the communication (i.e. charges recorded from the start of
the communication and until the moment the charging information is sent to the
served user), or as charging units. When the call is released, the network
shall send the recorded charges for the communication to the served user.
\- Charging information at the end of the communication (AOC-E): When the
AOC-E supplementary service is activated, the network shall provide the served
user with charging information indicating the recorded charges for a
communication when this communication is released.
Compatibility with existing, legacy AoC principles from both fixed and mobile
networks shall be taken into account. This comprises (but is not limited to)
the following requirements for AoC as specified in TS 22.086 [5], ETS 300 178
[6], ETS 300 179 [7], ETS 300 180 [8], TS 183 047 [9] and TS 183 058 [10].
AoC shall be also supported for interconnection scenarios.
### 4.3.7 Service Aware Charging Requirements
Service Aware Charging provides the means to perform charging based on
identified IMS communication service and the service in use.
To facilitate service aware charging, the system shall support the possibility
to identify the IMS communication service and the service in use in the
charging and accounting data collection.
To ensure that service aware charging can be provided when roaming, the home
network shall have the possibility to provide the unequivocally identified IMS
communication service to the visited network.
## 4.4 Additional Charging requirements for prepay services
A prepay service allows a subscriber to pay in advance for the use of specific
services, the prepay account will be decreased each time the subscriber uses
the services related to that account.
In a multi-service environment like 3GPP system, a subscriber can have
different prepay accounts for different kinds of services (e.g. internet
access, m-commerce, infotainment, location based services etc.).
In order to guarantee the use of the prepay services, the following general
requirements shall be fulfilled:
\- The prepay service shall check a subscriber's prepay account for coverage
of the requested service charges prior to execution of that service.
\- All charging information related to a specific prepay account shall be
prevented to the user when the prepay credit of that account is exhausted or
expired.
\- All the ongoing charging information related to a specific prepay account
shall be immediately (within a few seconds) interrupted as soon as the prepay
credit of that account exhausts or expires.
\- The prepay service shall decrease the prepay account each time the
subscriber uses the services related to that account.
It should be possible to support more than one prepay account for a user if
needed.
To guarantee a meaningful multi-prepay account concept, at least 2 different
prepay accounts should be supported.
## 4.5 QoS and gating based on spending limit
\- When the subscriber spending limit has reached a pre-set limit, the system
shall be able to trigger a QoS downgrade and/or restrict access to one,
several or all IP services based on operator pre-defined thresholds.
Note: A spending limit is the usage limit (e.g. monetary, volume, duration)
that a subscriber is allowed to consume.
\- When the subscriber spending limit (e.g. monetary, volume, duration) has
been increased, the system shall be able to modify resources (e.g. QoS,
Bandwidth, access) to services accordingly.
\- The home network shall be able to enforce the subscriber spending limits
for a roaming subscriber without having dedicated support of the feature in
the visited network.
\- Additional signalling load should be minimized.
## 4.6 ProSe Charging Requirements
This section describes the requirements for collecting charging data for ProSe
[13]. The requirements also apply in the roaming case.
Online and offline charging shall be supported.
The EPS shall be able to collect charging data for the ability to discover
ProSe-enabled UEs served by the E-UTRAN of a different PLMN.
The EPS shall be able to collect charging data for ProSe Discovery features
including:
\- the ability of a ProSe-enabled UE to be discoverable, including based on
the range class;
\- the ability to discover other ProSe-enabled UEs, including based on the
range class;
\- the event of discovering a ProSe-enabled UE, including based on the range
class.
When a ProSe-enabled UE uses ProSe Communication, or EPC Path established
following ProSe Discovery, the EPS shall be able to collect charging data for
this communication including its:
\- Activation/deactivation;
\- Initiation/termination;
\- Duration and amount of data transmitted / received;
\- QoS, if via E-UTRAN (e.g. levels of availability, allocated resource);
\- Inter-operator communication;
\- Inter-operator signalling;
\- Identification of UEs or groups involved.
Note: This requirement applies to any ProSe E-UTRA Communication between two
ProSe-enabled UEs, ProSe Group Communication, ProSe Broadcast Communication
and ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communication.
The EPS shall be able to collect charging data for use of ProSe Discovery,
ProSe Communication and EPC Path established following ProSe Discovery by an
application. This requirement applies to any ProSe E-UTRA Communication
between two ProSe-enabled UEs, ProSe Group Communication, ProSe Broadcast
Communication and ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communication.
## 4.7 Void
## 4.8 Void
# 5 Collection of charging information
The standard shall support the collection and transfer of charging information
in order to facilitate:
\- interworking with Release 98 and earlier releases
\- fraud management procedures;
\- unsuccessful calls and sessions documentation (e.g. for billing purposes);
> Note: collection of charging information due to error in the signalling
> flows (e.g. incomplete or erroneus call setup) are not required;
\- detailed itemised billing
\- allow for prepay charging
> Generally, the charging information collected shall support the high level
> principles in section 4 (above) and the requirements identified for inter-
> operator charging as elaborated by the GSM Association. The information
> listed below is the minimum requirement.
## 5.1 Charging information Requirements {#charging-information-requirements
.list-paragraph}
Charging information shall be collected in the Serving Network to record
chargeable User or Mobile Station activity and inter-carrier connections. Some
of the information is provided by the user, other information is only
available in the network element of the serving network.
Depending on the type of charging information some of the data may not be
available or might not be required.
### 5.1.1 Information provided by the user
The user's user equipment that is incurring the charge shall provide the
following information to the serving network:
\- User identity used for authentication;
\- Home environment identity;
\- Terminal Identity and Terminal Class;
\- Destination endpoint identifier for service requested (e.g. B number);
\- Resource requested (e.g. bandwidth, connectionless);
\- QoS parameters (e.g. maximum delay);
> \- IP Multimedia capability requested (e.g. media components).
### 5.1.2 Information provided by the serving network
The network serving the user shall provide the following information to the
home environment:
\- All of the information listed in section above (Information provided by the
user);
\- Serving network identity;
\- Recording network element identity;
\- Universal Time (UT) at which the service request was initiated;
\- Universal Time (UT) at which resources were provided for the service;
\- Universal Time (UT) at which the service execution was successfully
completed;
\- Universal Time (UT) at which the service execution was unsuccessfully
completed;
\- Local time of the serving cell when the service request was initiated for
the originating or terminating UE. This could either be explicitly reported,
or implicitly reported by providing three pieces of information: the UTC, the
time zone offset from UTC, and an indication of daylight savings time;
\- Cause for unsuccessful completion of the service execution. At least the
following causes shall be included:
-the terminating party does not respond;
-communication rejected by the terminating party;
-network determined terminating party busy;
-network congestion;
-terminating party non reachable (out of coverage, switched-off);
-destination non reachable (non active address, non-existing address).
\- Resource allocated to the user;
\- Quantity of data transferred both to and from the user;
\- QoS provided to the user;
\- Location of the user in the standard format used for 3GPP location based
services (e.g. geographical\ co-ordinates, Cell ID);
\- Network determined PLMN ID and Cell ID;
\- whether GSM Optimal Routing was applied;
\- If IN or CAMEL services were applied, the service parameters and the
actually used destination number and calling party number identification;
\- Time duration covered by this charging information to an accuracy of at
least 1 second;
\- Unique identity of the chargeable event which allows the billing system to
correlate all charging information belonging to the same chargeable event;
\- Unique charging information identity (unique per network element in a
period of about 100 days);
\- IP Multimedia capability provided to the user;
\- VAS information;
> \- Identifier of third party accessed by the user;
>
> \- Presence Information;
>
> \- Service Identification (e.g. voice call, video call, data download etc);
>
> \- Supplementary Services used;
>
> \- Prepay account identifier and related information.
### 5.1.3 Charged Party
For subscription related chargeable events the charging information shall
indicate the charged party, i.e. normally the calling party. As alternative it
should be possible to apply reverse charging or to charge the event to a party
not involved in the event itself (e.g. a company as VPN subscriber). It should
be possible for multiple leg calls (e.g. forwarded, conference or roamed) to
be charged to each party as if each leg was separately initiated. However, in
certain types of call, the originating party may wish/be obliged to pay for
other legs (e.g. SMS MO may also pay for the MT leg.).
It shall be possible to change the chargeable party at the session set-up or
during the session.
The 3GPP Packet Core network shall allow the 3^rd^ party service provider to
request which of the subscriber or the 3^rd^ party service provider (e.g. the
sponsor) has to be charged for an ongoing traffic flow in order to allow:
\- The subscriber to be charged for the traffic flow,
\- The 3^rd^ party service provider to be charged for the traffic flow.
NOTE: The change of the charged party (sponsor pays or user pays for this
traffic flow) only applies from the time of the request.
In case of inter-network chargeable events, the charging information usually
does not contain the charged party, but it can be derived from network
configuration information contained in the charging event data..
For each party to be charged for a chargeable event or parts of it charging
information shall be collected.
### 5.1.4 Information provided by the third party accessed by the user
Supply of Value Added Services, especially in IP based environment, is often
made with the aid of third parties typically represented by portals and
content/application providers.
To execute an effective charging of these services, the following charging
information should be provided by the third party:
\- Third party identity;
\- Type of service (information, entertainment, gaming, public utility);
\- Change in the type of service provided to the user;
\- Type of content (picture, videoclip, mp3 file, java file);
\- Universal Time (UT) at which the service request was initiated;
\- If a service change happens, Universal Time (UT) at which the service
provision was initiated;
\- Universal Time (UT) at which the service execution was successfully
completed;
\- Universal Time (UT) at which the service execution was unsuccessfully
completed;
\- Cause for unsuccessful completion of the service execution. At least the
following causes shall be included:
\- the terminating party does not respond;
\- communication rejected by the terminating party;
\- network determined terminating party busy;
\- network congestion;
\- terminating party non reachable (out of coverage, switched-off);
\- destination non reachable (non active address, non-existing address).
\- Cause for Abnormal reject of the service;
\- Universal Time (UT) for abnormal reject of the service
## 5.2 Special Cases
### 5.2.1 Long calls and sessions
The advent of packet data services, which can extend for very long periods of
time (days, weeks etc), although at low cost because charges are based on data
throughput, may mean that charging information are only output at the end of
very long periods. For this reason the serving network shall support the
transmission of charging information also during the life of the packet data
session, either when some charge value is reached or some duration or some
data volume or all three, to allow for both charging settlement and cost
control.
### 5.2.2 Multimedia calls
During one call the user may invoke different services like speech, data
transmission, video and audio, which may lead to a separate collection of
charging information for each service in different network components. In this
case, the billing system shall be able to correlate these charging information
and to indicate to the user that they belonged to one call.
### 5.2.3 Service Change
Sufficient information about a service change using SCUDIF changing a voice
call to a CS multimedia call, or vice versa, shall be collected to enable
operators to apply maximum flexibility in charging. This information is
collected on top of the data that is already available for the underlying call
now subject for the service change.
On a service change using SCUDIF the following information shall be collected
on both sides of the call:
1) Initiator of the service change (A side or B side)
2) Type of the service change (To speech or to multimedia)
3) For a service change to multimedia: nature of the service change (User or
network initiated service change)
### 5.2.4 E-Commerce
The 3GPP system may be used to trade soft goods (e.g. information, video,
audio), or hard goods (e.g. books) of high or low value per item between the
user and a merchant. It shall be possible for such merchants to charge users
directly for services they provide. Electronic payment mechanisms are or shall
be made available through other standards (micropayment, credit card payment,
etc), and therefore are outside the scope of this specification 3GPP shall not
prohibit the use of these mechanisms, and, where possible, shall provide the
basic communications transport to allow them to be used effectively.
However, if the serving network acts as merchant of soft goods, it may charge
the user directly, collecting the related charging information as described
above or using micropayment mechanisms.
### 5.2.5 Volume Based Charging
It shall be possible to charge for the total volume of data/packets sent and
received by the user.
### 5.2.6 VAS
It shall be possible to charge the user for Value Added Services offered by
the network in terms of access, surfing, queries etc. irrespectively of the
volume of data sent or received by the user.
### 5.2.7 Usage of IP Multimedia service
It shall be possible to charge the usage of IP multimedia service
independently of the volume of data sent or received by the user. Information
on the IP Multimedia capability provided to the user (e.g. voice, mixture of
voice and video component, numbers of parties) should be available in the
charging information.
### 5.2.8 I- WLAN
I-WLAN charging issues are captured in 3GPP TS 22.234 [3].
### 5.2.9 Charging for two( and multi)-phases services for IMS networks
It shall be possible to charge a service change in case of VAS that foresee
different service phases at different tariffs. This applies both at the
interconnection between IMS network operators and at the interconnection
between IMS network operators and service providers.
This information is collected on top of the data that is already available for
the underlying communication now subject for the service change.
### 5.2.10 CSG charging requirements for UTRAN and E-UTRAN
Detailed requirements for CSG access may be found in 3GPP TS 22.220 [12].
Charging related requirements:
\- It shall be possible to charge subscribers for consuming network services
via a CSG cell based on the following information:
\- CSG identity of the CSG cell
\- subscriber membership of the CSG
\- type of service consumed by the subscriber
\- addition to and deletion from a CSG
\- An operator shall be able to provide applicable tariffing information when
a subscriber is added to a CSG.
\- The network operator shall be able to charge both on-line and off-line for
subscribers consuming network services via a CSG cell.
### 5.2.11 Inter-UE Transfer charging
It shall be possible to charge for Inter-UE Transfer (i.e.
transfer/replication/sharing) of media components across multiple IMS UEs.
### 5.2.12 Selected IP Traffic Offload charging
The network shall be able to apply volume-base charging to a subscriber
regardless of whether the subscriber's traffic has been offloaded from the
mobile operator's network as described in 3GPP TS 22.101 [1].
For subscribers' traffic offloaded from the mobile operator network, the
network shall be able to apply either online or offline charging.
### 5.2.12A Charging requirements for IoT small data
Requirements for IoT resource efficiency for small data transmission can be
found in 3GPP TS 22.278 [13].
The 3GPP system shall be able to record charging data for both IP data and
non-IP data to/from a UE.
The 3GPP system shall be able to record charging data for user plane transfer
of small data messages.
The 3GPP system shall be able to record charging data for offline charging for
control plane transfer of small data messages. At least the following data
shall be recorded:
> \- Non-IP data delivery submission requests in mobile originated and mobile
> terminated direction;
>
> \- Data volume per submission request
>
> \- Destination and source information
### 5.2.13 TV Service Support Requirements
The 3GPP network shall be able to generate accounting data for TV transport
service.
### 5.2.14 Accounting for Flexible Mobile Service Steering
The 3GPP core network shall be able to generate accounting information to
support accounting between operator and the third party service provider when
operators use traffic steering policies to steer traffic to appropriate
enablers which are deployed by the third party service provider in (S)Gi-LAN
as described in 3GPP TS 22.101 [1].
# 6 Transfer of Charging Information
The efficient transfer of charging information between serving networks and
from serving networks to home environments requires a standardised interface
between these entities. It shall be possible to define different time
intervals for the transfer of charging information between serving network and
home environment (e.g. when a chargeable event occurs, when a chargeable event
is initiated by the user, when a chargeable event terminates, at regular
intervals during a chargeable event).
The format of the charging information exchanged (see 5.1) shall be
standardised. It shall be possible for the relevant parties to agree minimum
and maximum age of charging information transferred between themselves.
## 6.1 Integrity, Secrecy and Validation of Content and Receipt of Charging
Information
The transmission mechanism for charging information collected in 5.1 above
shall ensure its integrity and secrecy.
A mechanism to validate the source and integrity of the information shall be
provided so that:
\- the home environment shall be able to validate the source and integrity of
the charging information supplied by the serving network;
\- the serving network shall be able to validate the source and integrity of
the charging information supplied by the user;
\- the serving network shall have proof that services were provided to a
specified user.
# 7 Accounting and Settlement
The serving network shall collect and process the charging data generated in
its network elements. The record of each individual transaction shall be
reported to the home environment at short time intervals in order to allow
further processing by the billing system in the Home Environment, provide
itemised bills, and to deal with any disputes regarding charges both for users
and for other visited networks and home environment.
The standard shall support the transfer of charging data at different
intervals as required by the Home Environment (e.g. short time intervals, real
time, other regular intervals).
## 7.1 Delegation of charging authority
The registration process allows the home environment to authenticate users
before they incur any charges. Once authenticated, the home environment then
delegates authority to the serving network operator with which he has a direct
commercial relationship to incur charges for services supplied to that user.
The direct commercial relationship may be with either the serving network
operator if known directly by the home environment or a network operator known
to the home environment. This procedure uses each network as trusted third
parties in a chain of delegation between entities, thus allowing commercial
transactions between entities who have no direct commercial dealings. There
shall be an authentication procedure between all entities in the 3GPP system
which have a commercial relationship.
In the case of a multimedia telephony, when the HPLMN requests that optimal
media routeing is not applied, the VPLMN shall disable optimal media routeing
for all the subscribers of the requesting network.
## 7.2 Fraud Control
A mechanism to control fraud shall be provided by the serving networks and the
home environment.
### 7.2.1 Fraud Control by the Home Environment
Charging information shall be collected by the home environment in real time
from all serving networks which its users are allowed to use. The billing
system in the home environment shall process the information in real time and
provide the means to set charge thresholds per time interval upon which some
actions may be started, such as informing the customer care centre or even
barring the user in the HLR.
It shall be possible for the Home Environment to define different time
intervals for the collection and the processing of charging information (e.g.
real time, short time, other regular intervals).
### 7.2.2 Fraud Control by the Serving Network
Charging information shall be collected from the network elements and
processed in real time. This will allow the serving network to always be aware
of the exposure to visitors. A limit for the accumulated charges for all
visitors from one home environment or a limit per visitor may be agreed
between the home environment and the serving network.
It shall be possible for the Serving Network to define different time
intervals for the collection and the processing of charging information (e.g.
real time, short time, other regular intervals).
## 7.3 Cost Control
A mechanism shall be standardised providing an indication to the user (if
involved in the chargeable event) of the charges to be levied for a chargeable
event. This mechanism shall be able to handle all possible charging scenarios,
and all service and tariff variants that the home environment and the serving
network may offer to the user.
The user shall be able to set in his home environment a limit for the
accumulated charges per time interval. Upon exceeding this limit or prior to
incurring a charge which would exceed the limit, certain actions may be
desired by the user:
  * notification to the user, requesting to extend the limit; or
  * Home Environment barring allowing no further originating calls; or
  * Home Environment barring cancelling the roaming permission.
### 7.3.1 Cross Phase Compatibility
For Release 99 the cost control mechanism may be based on Advice of Charge.
However the Release 99 standards should not prevent the future implementation
of the full Cost Control requirements.
The Release 99 standards should allow these new features to be introduced in a
backward compatible manner; specifically terminals conforming to Release 99
standards should continue to support the Release 99 service requirements when
operating with future implementations of Advice of Charge in the Home
Environment.
## 7.4 Inter-network Settlement
Mechanisms shall also be provided to allow inter-network settlement of charges
on a bulk basis. The same mechanisms shall be used between home environments
and serving networks. This will allow each of these parties to meter the total
input and output of charges and thus determine the payments required on a
periodic basis between each of the parties with which they directly interact.
The mechanisms used shall allow each of the parties to meter charge flows
independently, with the aim of matching the values recorded at both sides of
the same interface. The imbalance in charge flow shall be accumulated in short
time, such that each entity can be informed when a threshold has been exceeded
and determine whether to continue.
# 8 Automatic Roaming Agreements
Support for the requirements in this section is not required in Release 99\.
However the Release 99 standards should not prevent the future implementation
of this requirement in a backward compatible manner (eg a roaming broker
enabled Home Environment should inter-operate with a R99 Serving Network).
It is a requirement that users shall be able to obtain service and use
chargeable services with networks with whom neither they nor their home
environment have any direct commercial agreement. This shall be enabled by
interworking via trusted third parties. Each Home Environment shall interwork
with one or more serving network operators, with whom they would negotiate a
commercial roaming agreement and test the interworking. Any user wishing to
use the services of a particular serving network would register with that
serving network, that would either directly or indirectly interwork with the
home environment. Fraud and cost control mechanisms shall be used to ensure
that charges incurred for 3GPP services do not exceed the credit limits set.
This can be applied for the user and the other roles involved in commercial
dealings. In practice, any serving network shall be capable of operating as a
roaming broker.
Figure 1: Registration and Roaming Process
## 8.1 Routing the Registration Request
The same mechanisms used for routing calls and resolving addresses shall be
used to route the subscription identity back to its Home Environment. The
standard shall support a routing identification mechanism to allow a serving
network, which does not maintain its own list of all known HE, to determine
the appropriate route to reach a given HE. A number of alternative routes may
be possible, and ideally the system should be capable of determining the
lowest cost to the end user.
Typically, smaller networks will only have a limited number of external
connections to other networks or clearing houses, but may not know which one
to use for an unknown (new) HE. In this case, the serving network may make a
number of inquiries for each route to determine the lowest cost route to
handle the call.
## 8.2 Settlement of charges
Settlement of charges incurred by a user shall be on a wholesale basis between
the different parties involved in the registration link. By authorising a user
to register, or a roaming broker to pass that on, each party is in turn
authorising charges up to a maximum credit limit with the adjacent party. Any
charges levied can then be paid to the adjacent party on a wholesale basis at
the end of a mutually agreed accounting period. Funds are thus passed between
each party for the services supplied by the network operator in a serial
fashion.
#