# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
SMS has been very successful in the GSM second generation system, as all
mobiles have supported the application level and it is possible to send to any
GSM handset without the need to check for individual support. This easy to use
service for non realtime text transmission between GSM users shall be
succeeded to in third generation mobile systems by a non real-time Multimedia
Message Service, MMS. The MMS will allow users to send and receive messages
exploiting the whole array of media types available today e.g. text, images,
audio, video while also making it possible to support new content types as
they become popular.
3GPP shall not standardise new services themselves, but instead uses the
standardised set of service capabilities features on which the new services
will be built.
Multimedia technology is rapidly developing new capabilities, such as
multimedia messages, games, presentations and services that are now considered
to be a part of everyday life. Multimedia consists of one or more media
elements (such as text, voice, image and video), and it is the combination of
these media elements in an ordered synchronised manner that creates a
multimedia presentation.
A non-realtime multimedia message as observed by the user is a combination of
one or more different media elements in a multimedia presentation, that can be
transferred between users without the requirement for the need to be
transferred in realtime. The non-real-time multimedia messaging service shall
be capable of supporting current and future multimedia messaging services, and
exploit the advances being made in the world multimedia community, with
additional mobile requirements.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Specification defines the stage one description of the non
real-time Multimedia Messaging Service, MMS. Stage one is the set of
requirements which shall be supported for the provision of non real-time
multimedia messaging service, seen primarily from the subscriber's and service
providers' points of view.
This TS includes information applicable to network operators, service
providers, terminal and network manufacturers.
This TS contains the core requirements for the Multimedia Messaging Service,
which are sufficient to provide a complete service.
This TS defines the requirements for MMS to be understood as a framework to
enable non real-time transmissions for different types of media including such
functionality as:
\- multiple media elements per single message
\- individual handling of message elements
\- different delivery methods for each message element
\- negotiate different terminal and network MM capabilities
\- notification and acknowledgement of MM related events (e.g. delivery,
deletion, ...)
\- handling of undeliverable MM
\- personalised MMS configuration
\- flexible charging
The above list is not exhaustive.
Thus the MMS enables a unified application which integrates the composition,
storage, access, and delivery of different kinds of media, e.g. text, voice,
image or video in combination with additional mobile requirements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service Principles\".
[2] Void
[3] 3GPP TS 21.133: \"3G Security; Security Threats and Requirements\".
[4] ITU-T E.164 (1997): \"The International Public Telecommunications
Numbering Plan\".
[5] IETF; STD 0011 (RFC 2822): \"Internet Message Format\", URL:
http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2822.txt.
[6] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary\".
[7] 3GPP TS 31.102 \"Characteristics of the USIM Application\".
[8] 3GPP TS 51.011 (Rel-4): \"Specification of the Subscriber Identity Module
-- Mobile Equipment (SIM-ME) interface\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.242 \"Digital Rights Management (DRM); Stage 1\".
[10] 3GPP TS 22.240 \"Stage 1 Service Requirement for the 3GPP Generic User
Profile (GUP)\" .
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
**Recipient :** the recipient is the entity to which a MM has been sent.
**Sender:** the sender is the entity that sent a MM.
**User:** the user is the MM sender or the MM recipient.
**message element:** a message element is a part of a MM consisting of only
one media type.
**multimedia message:** a multimedia message is a message composed of one or
more message elements.
**multimedia message service:** A multimedia message service allows transfer
of multimedia messages between users without the requirement for the
multimedia messages to be transferred in real-time.
**media types:** a media type refers to one form of presenting information to
a user, e.g. voice or fax.
**media formats** : within one media type different media formats are
applicable for the media presentation, e.g. a picture can be GIF or JPEG
format.
**network:** for the purposes of supporting multimedia messaging, the term
network shall be considered to include the mobile operator\'s network and any
functionality which may exist outside the mobile operator\'s network
(i.e.fixed, internet and multimedia technologies etc.), and the support
provided by that functionality for multimedia messaging.
**Operator Specific Service:** network-based and operator administred function
being able to perform additional, operator defined, MMS services based on MMS
capabilities for address translation and charging.
**Value Added Service Provider:** provides services other than basic
telecommunications service for which additional charges may be incurred.
**Short code:** A string of alphanumeric characters which addresses a specific
service of a Value Added Service Provider.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of this document the following abbreviations apply:
MM Multimedia Message
MMS Multimedia Message Service
SMS Short Message Service
VASP Value Added Services Provider
# 4 High level Requirements
The following list gives the high level requirements of the MMS. These are
requirements which are independent of the user's perception of the service:
**\- Forward compatible multimedia messaging**
Multimedia messaging mechanisms shall provide the capability to support
current and evolving multimedia messaging by re-using existing standards as
far as possible and proposing extensions (as necessary) to existing standards
(i.e. the multimedia messaging service shall support the evolution of
multimedia messaging technologies).
**\- Consistent messaging**
Regardless of the message type / format, MMS shall be capable of supporting
integration of all types of messaging (e.g. fax, SMS, Multimedia , voicemail,
e-mail etc.) in a consistent manner.
**\- Universal messaging access**
Within the capabilities of networks and terminals, the user shall be able to
experience consistent access to the MMS regardless of the access point.
For example the user should be capable of accessing her multimedia messages
through a number of different access points, which should include 3GPP
systems, fixed networks, the Internet, etc.
**\- Interoperability**
The MMS shall support a minimum set of functionality and message formats to
ensure interoperability (e.g. deletion of MM, identified standardised message
notification, message media types and message content formats).
The MMS shall provide a minimum set of supported formats to ensure full
interoperability between different terminals and networks from the very
beginning of service provisioning (e.g. JPEG for pictures, MP3 for audio, MPEG
for motion pictures, etc.).
The MMS shall support version management by indicating a version number in the
MM for interoperability purpose.
# 5 General Requirements
Network operators have many differing requirements, and MMS shall be supported
in the network in a manner which allows network operators to consider
different configurations depending on their network and commercial
requirements. Thus, an identified set of functionalities and formats shall be
standardised to ensure interoperability across networks and terminals to
support MMS.
However, some network operators may wish to design and configure networks in
different ways, and the subsequent requirements are identified to allow
flexibility in how the MMS functionality is supported. For example in some
networks the network operators may wish to implement the MMS functionality
within the core network, whereas other may wish to place the MMS functionality
on the periphery of the core network (e.g. a centralised network model instead
of a distributed architecture). Further, some network operators may wish to
support a limited set of MMS functionality, while others may require extensive
and elaborate MMS support according to their business models (e.g. basic MMS
instead of advanced MMS). Interoperability shall always be maintained within
this flexible architecture.
The following sub-clauses use the term \"_The MMS shall be able to support a
request for ..._ \" and similar phrases to allow network operators to consider
these different network models and business requirements, to permit flexible
architectures and ensure MMS interoperability.
The following sub-clauses use the term _\"This requirement shall be supported
at the application layer in the terminal (and/or the network), and will not be
further elaborated."_ and similar phrases to identify those service
requirements that shall be supported by MMS but do not require
standardisation.
The criterion for identifying these types of requirements is as follows:
If the requirement corresponds to an interaction and/or command between the
terminal and the network applications from the same Service Provider (e.g.
between the recipient's terminal resident messaging application and the
recipient's network resident application. The same applies for the sender),
then this requirement shall be supported by MMS but does not require
standardisation.
The following general requirements shall be supported.
## 5.1 Multimedia message management
**\- Terminal-sensitive MM management**
The MMS shall be able to support the capability for the terminal and network
to take account of the capability of the user\'s terminal (e.g. deliver a MM /
notification in a manner compatible with the terminals capability).
**\- Terminal status-sensitive MM Management**
The MMS shall be able to support the capability of the network to take account
of the availability, changes of the state of availability of the terminal
(e.g. store messages if the recipient is not available).
**\- MMS Control by the operator**
The MMS shall be able to support a request from the operator to enable/disable
MM delivery and submission.
**\- MMS Control by the user**
The MMS shall be able to support a request from the user to enable/disable MM
delivery and submission.
This requirement shall be supported at the application layer in the terminal,
and will not be further elaborated.
**\- Storage of MMS parameters**
> The USIM shall be able to store the following types of MMS related data:
>
> i) a number of sets of issuer configuration information to allow access to
> MMS services.
>
> At least one of these sets of configuration information should be stored on
> the USIM by the issuer of the USIM.
>
> The first issuer configuration information set is denoted as the default
> configuration set.
>
> This configuration information shall only be configurable by the issuer of
> the USIM.
>
> ii) a number of sets of user configuration information to allow access to
> MMS services.
>
> If more than one set of configuration information is present, it shall be
> possible for the user to select which set is used. If the user has not
> selected any of the configuration information sets, then the default set in
> the active USIM is used.
>
> **iii) MMS notifications**
>
> **iv) MMS user preferences**
>
> A terminal using a USIM [7] or a SIM [8] with these MMS parameters, shall by
> default use them and the related preferred bearer, to access to the MMS
> services.
NOTE 1: Terminal support of SIM and USIM in general is specified in 3GPP TS
22.101[1].
**\- Personalise multimedia messaging**
The MMS shall be able to support a request by the user to manage the Service
Preferences of his User Service Profile related to this MMS [6](e.g. customise
his MM environment within the capabilities of the terminal, network and MM
application. This could be unconditional or conditional e.g. depending on
roaming conditions or operator restrictions).
**\- MM creation**
The MMS shall be able to support the request to create a MM by the user or an
application.
This requirement shall be supported at the application layer in the terminal,
and will not be further elaborated.
**\- MM Time Stamping**
The MMS shall be able to support the request to include a reliable time value
in an MM, a notification and an acknowledgement as appropriate.
**\- Multiple Media**
Multimedia messages may be composed of either a single medium (e.g. voice) or
multi-media (e.g. Voice and video). The MMS shall be able to support a request
for media synchronisation / sequencing.
**\- Media Type Conversion**
The MMS shall be able to support a request to convert between media types
(e.g. Fax to image). The MMS shall be able to support an indication from a
VASP that VASP originated content of an MM should not be converted or changed
by the MMS service provider before it is delivered to the recipient.
This requirement shall be supported at the application layer in the network,
and will not be further elaborated.
**\- Media Format Conversion**
The MMS shall be able to support a request by the user or the application to
convert between MM media formats (e.g. JPEG to GIF).
This requirement shall be supported at the application layer in the terminal
and/or in the network, and will not be further elaborated.
**\- Message forwarding**
The MMS shall be able to support a request to forward multimedia messages or
multimedia message elements without having to first download the MM to the
terminal. The MMS shall provide a mechanism to prevent an MM forwarding loop
(e.g. MMs are setup to be automatically forwarded from User A to B, then from
B to C and from C back to A. Users A, B, and C are unaware that they have
setup this undesirable situation).
**\- Storage of Multi-Media Messages**
The MMS shall be able to support a request for multimedia messages or message
elements to be stored until delivered to the recipient's terminal, until they
expire, or until they are deleted by the user (unless configured differently).
The MMS shall be able to support a request to store and manage all MMs in a
network based repository rather than on the mobile terminal.
> When the USIM supports MMs storage, it shall be possible for the MMS client
> to store and retrieve MMs or elements of MMs in the USIM.
NOTE 2: There is no requirement for the MMS to be responsible for the
processing/presentation of the MM message, after it has been delivered to the
terminal.
**\- Prioritisation of Messages**
The MMS shall be able to support a request for MM prioritisation . The
prioritisation is passed to the recipient(s) of the message as an indication
of the importance the sender places on the message. MM prioritisation is not
acted upon by the network.
**\- Message qualification**
The MMS shall be able to support a request for MM qualification (e.g. subject)
for the purpose of advanced user experience and awareness.
**\- Screening of Messages**
The MMS shall be able to support a request for MM screening subject to the
capabilities of the network (e.g. automatically delete "junk mail", anonymous
messages without delivery to the recipient's terminal).
This requirement shall be supported at the application layer in the terminal
an/or in the network, and will not be further elaborated.
**\- Validity Period**
The MMS shall be able to support a request by the originator of a message to
define validity periods (earliest and latest desired time) for message
delivery (e.g. if a message can not be delivered within a certain time it will
be automatically deleted). The MMS service provider shall be able to set the
MAXIMUM allowable validity period for any message.
\- **Multimedia Message Processing by a VASP**
> The MMS shall be able to support a request for messages to be processed by a
> VASP. An example of such processing may be where an MM is sent to a VASP
> before delivery to the recipient so that the VASP can add multimedia
> element(s) to the original message.
\- **Replacing MM**
> The MMS shall be able to support a request by a VASP to replace a previously
> sent MM from the VASP with a second newer MM.
\- **Cancellation of MM**
> The MMS shall be able to support a request by a VASP to delete a MM that had
> previously been sent from the VASP but not yet delivered to the terminal.
\- **Hyperlinks in MM**
> It shall be possible to embed a hyperlink in a MM.
>
> The following guidelines on editing, presenting and following of hyperlinks
> should be followed:
>
> • There should be no restriction to the position in the MM where a hyperlink
> can be added.
>
> • It should be possible to clearly recognise the presence of a hyperlink.
NOTE 3: It is preferable to display the title of a hyperlink rather than the
complete address. (URI)
> • Presence of a hyperlink in an MM should not impact the presentation of the
> MM (i.e. due to immediate following or storage of the link)
>
> • The recipient of an MM should be able to follow a hyperlink.
>
> The hyperlink should not be followed automatically by default (explicit user
> interaction should be required)
\- **Digital Rights Management**
> The MMS shall be able to support controlling the distribution of controlled
> content as defined in 3GPP TS 22.242 [9]. MMS Content Providers shall be
> able to invoke DRM to prevent unauthorized copying and forwarding of
> controlled content through the MMS.
## 5.2 Multimedia message delivery and submission
**\- Submission mechanism**
> The MMS shall support multimedia messages or messages elements to be
> submitted from the sender's UE.
**\- Push Mechanism**
The MMS shall be able to support a request for multimedia messages or messages
elements to be automatically delivered to the recipient\'s UE.
**\- Pull Mechanism**
The MMS shall be able to support a request for multimedia messages or messages
elements to be delivered to the recipient's UE on request by the recipient.
NOTE 1: Push and pull delivery mechanisms could be identical; the criteria
which decide on the type of mechanism (push / pull) are either described in
the User Services Profile or out of the scope of this specification.
**\- Concurrency**
The MMS shall be able to support MM delivery to and from the user's terminal
not be restricted during other active services (subject to the capabilities of
the terminal and the network).
**\- Streaming**
The MMS shall be able to support streaming for MM delivery from the MMS system
to the terminal.
Support for streaming for MM upload from the terminal to the MMS system will
be considered for future releases.
**\- Preferred Bearer**
> It shall be possible to define a list of precedence for bearers in the
> configuration information sets for delivery and submission of MM (e.g. GPRS,
> CSD). By default, the the terminal shall be able to support automatic bearer
> selection (i.e. without user intervention) based on the order of precedence
> defined in the configuration information sets on the USIM[7] or SIM [8]. The
> user shall be able to enable or disable automatic bearer selection. When
> disabled, manual bearer selection shall be available from the list of
> bearers.
**\- Conditional delivery mechanism**
> **It shall be possible for the user to define in the User Profile a set of
> conditions that determine which delivery mechanism should be used for the
> delivery of a MM.**
>
> **Such conditions should include:**
\- Roaming status of the recipient (e.g. inside or outside the home network)
\- Identity of the MM originator
\- Time of day (of the recipient\'s home network)
\- Upper limit to the MM size
> The notification message indicating an MMS awaiting delivery shall relay the
> information of the user\'s preferred delivery mechanism, if such information
> is made available by the user profile in the network, to the UE. If a
> mismatch is identified between the delivery mechanism configured in the UE
> and the delivery mechanism indicated in the notification message, it shall
> be possible for the user to select either the delivery mechanism configured
> in the UE or the delivery mechanism indicated in the notification message.
>
> **Furthermore, the terminal may also display a warning prior to the download
> of a message depending on some terminal parameters such as:**
\- Available storage capacity
\- Remaining battery life
\- Available bearers
> **For example, the user may elect to have all MMs downloaded automatically
> when in the home network, be able to manually select whether to download a
> MM or not when roaming.**
>
> **It shall be possible for the network operator to program a default set of
> rules for the delivery mechanism in the User profile. Such rules can be
> overridden by the user.**
NOTE 2: The way the user profile is accessed and modified is not subject of
standardisation.
\- MM intended for applications other than the default MMS client on the UE
> **The MMS shall support MMs that are not intended for presentation but used
> to originate and deliver information to applications residing on the UE
> other than the default MMS client.**
**NOTE 3:** The intended application can present the MM contents.
> **When an application sends a MM not intended for presentation, it shall be
> possible to uniquely identify that originating application and the target
> application on the recipient UE as well as the instance of the application
> if more than one instance can be active. The originating application may
> reside on a UE or within the network.**
>
> **The message payload shall not be modified by the MMS.**
>
> **If the MM is originated by the subscriber\'s home environment, it shall be
> possible to protect the MM from accidental deletion by the user.**
### 5.2.1 MM delivery to and submission from a VASP
**\- VASP submission mechanism**
The MMS shall support multimedia messages or messages elements to be submitted
from a VASP.
**\- VASP delivery mechanism**
The MMS shall be able to support multimedia messages or messages elements to
be delivered to a VASP.
**\- VASP mass distribution**
> The MMS shall be able to support a request from a VASP for mass distribution
> of MMs to recipients.
**\- Additional VASP data**
> The MMS shall be able to convey additional data associated with an MM from a
> VASP to the MMS service provider and vice versa.
>
> Note: A possible use case for this could be the option to sent additional
> charging information from the VASP to the MMS service provider. However the
> data itself is not specified for this release.
## 5.3 Notification and Acknowledgement
The MMS shall be able to support a request to send generic notification and
acknowledgement capability to inform the user in an appropriate manner of MMS
events. Examples may include:
\- notify the recipient about received messages (including a description of
the message, e.g. content, size, type).
\- notify the recipient about actions taken by the MMS, (e.g. due to profile
settings like automatic MM forwarding, deletion, etc.).
\- acknowledge the sender about successful or failed MM or storage of a MM.
\- acknowledge the sender about successful or failed MM submission.
\- acknowledge the sender, including a VASP, about successful or failed MM
delivery to the recipient terminal (subject to the recipient permitting such
an acknowledgement).
\- acknowledge the sender, including a VASP, about the MM being read/handled
at the recipient terminal (subject to the recipient permitting such an
acknowledgement).
\- acknowledge the sender, including a VASP, about successful or failed MM
deletion.
\- acknowledge the sender, including a VASP, upon request, about the status of
a submitted MM (i.e. delivered / not delivered).
\- acknowledge a VASP, upon request, about the status of a mass distributed
MM. A mass MM status report might be an aggregated report on the status of
individual messages for all recipients on the distribution list of a specific
mass distributed MM.
\- acknowledge a VASP, upon request, about the status of previously submitted
MMs, after a VASP had sent the MMs being queried.
## 5.4 Addressing
The MMS shall support different addressing formats to identify the sender and
recipient. It shall be possible to submit one message to multiple recipients.
The MMS shall support the capability for both MSISDN [4] and e-mail addressing
schemes [5] to be used, and the user may use either form of addressing to send
a message.
The MMS shall be able to support the request to hide the sender's address from
the recipient.
The MMS shall support a distribution list for mass distribution of MMs from a
VASP. The MMS shall support the ability for a VASP to have the distribution
list modified by the MMS service provider for this release.
The MMS may support short code addresses to address Value Added Services. If
supported, and routing of messages to a MMS VASP service based on a short code
address is enabled, the MMS shall be able to translate the short code address
to a routable address to be used in the transport layer, e.g. a URI.
## 5.5 Management and Control of a Network Based Repository
Network based repository is optional. If supported, MMS shall be able to
support following functionalities:-
\- The MMS shall allow an MMS service provider to configure MMS in such a way
that one, several or all incoming MMs of a particular user be stored
persistently in a network based repository
\- The MMS shall allow an MMS service provider to configure MMS in such a way
that one, several or all submitted MMs of a particular user be stored
persistently in a network based repository
\- The MMS shall be able to support a request from a sender to persistently
store a sent MM in a network based repository at the time of sending
\- The MMS shall be able to support a request from a user to persistently
store a MM for which he received a notification in a network based repository
\- The MMS shall be able to support a request from a user to upload one or
more MMs into a network based repository for persistent storage
\- The MMS shall be able to support a request from a user to retrieve one or
more MMs that are stored in a network based repository
\- The MMS shall be able to support a request from a user to delete one or
more MMs that are stored in a network based repository
\- The MMS shall be able to support a request from a user to forward one or
more MMs that are stored in a network based repository to another destination
without being delivered first to that user.
\- The MMS shall be able to support a request from a user to view the list of
MMs and MM related attributes, such as sender, recipient, subject and
date/time, in a network based repository
## 5.6 Error Messages
It shall be possible for the operator to configure the content of the error
message delivered to the MMS client.
### 5.6.1 Prepaid Errors
The MMS shall notify a prepaid user when message submission was unsuccessful
due to lack of credit in the prepaid account, explicitly stating this
situation.
## 5.7 MMS client interaction with UICC
It shall be possible for an MMS client in the ME to interact with a UICC to
manage (e.g. send, receive and present) MMS messages stored on the UICC, in
accordance with the requirements in this specification. It shall be possible
to indicate to the UE that an MM needs to receive special treatment. When a MM
has been marked with this indication, means shall be provided to protect the
MM from accidental deletion e.g. by asking for additional confirmation to the
user. The use of this indication shall be under the control of the HPLMN.
# 6 User Profile
The MMS shall be able to support the ability to create, update, store,
transfer, interrogate, manage and retrieve a user's multimedia messaging
profiles.
The multimedia messaging profiles shall allow a user to configure and
personalise his multimedia messaging environment with the multimedia messaging
profiles (e.g. which media types and notifications that shall be delivered to
the recipient , such as voice only or text only).
The user profile shall allow the user to create and manipulate a list of
users, identified by their addresses, from which the user does not want to
receive messages. This list is called \"user-level blacklist\". It shall be
possible for the user to add, remove and edit addresses in the user-level
blacklist.
Note: User-level blacklist differs from ODB blacklist. Users can decide from
whom they do not want to receive messages by adding the corresponding address
to the user profile.
If the MMS supports a network based repository of MMs, it shall be possible
for the users to configure where incoming MMs will be stored.
The multimedia messaging profiles shall form part of the user\'s virtual home
environment.
MMS information in the user profile when stored in the UA or the network shall
be accessed in a standardised manner. The MMS should accomplish this using
mechanisms described in the 3GPP Generic User Profile 3GPP TS 22.240 [10]
whenever possible.
# 7 Security
The user shall be able to use and access MM in a secure manner. It shall be
possible for the contents of MMs to be read only by the intended recipient(s).
A recipient shall be informed of the reliability of the identity of the sender
in case the sender has authorised his identity to be transmitted.
The integrity of MMs during transit shall be assured to extent of the network
capabilities.
The MMS shall be intrinsically resistant to attempts of malicious or
fraudulent use.
An MMS service provider shall be able to authenticate a VASP connected to it
and shall be able to be authenticated by a VASP connected to it. The MMS
service provider shall be able to authorise the VASP to use various MM
services. The MMS shall support encryption of the transport layer between an
MMS service provider and a VASP.
Note: Key management is outside the scope of this release of this standard.
The \"Security Threats and Requirements\" specified in 21.133 [3] shall not be
compromised.
# 8 Charging
The MMS shall be able to support various charging models, including:
\- Sender pays;
\- both Sender and Recipient pay their respective charges for message
delivery;
\- Recipient pays for receipt of messages from a VASP when there is a
commercial agreement between the Recipient and the VASP;
\- Sender pays for reply message on a per message basis.
\- The third party who has a commercial agreement with the VASP (and possibly
additional agreement with the operator and/or recipient) is charged for the
delivery of the message to the recipient.
The MMS shall be able to support various charging mechanisms. The following
charging characteristics may be considered:
\- message types, length, storage time in the network, etc,
\- delivering time, upload / download method,
\- MM-sender / -recipient,
\- number of messages sent,
\- number of messages received,
\- roaming conditions,
\- location conditions,
\- Indication of charging,
> The MMS indicates to the recipient prior to the recipient downloading a
> multi media message whether the sender has paid or the recipient is expected
> to pay for the message.
\- Prepaid subscriptions.
> \- Bearer of the message
The MMS shall support a standardized interface to transfer CDRs and other
charging related information between the MMS system and the billing system for
prepaid and postpaid billing solutions.
# 9 External Interface
External interfaces for controlling and delivering MM between the terminal and
an external device e.g. portable computer should be supported.
# 10 Interworking
The standard shall permit interworking with other or existing messaging
technologies, messaging services, intelligent network services and
supplementary services, either located within or outside a mobile network.
In the case of a VASP, such interworking shall include capability negotiation
between the VASP and the MMS service provider. Such capability negotiation
shall include service version information as a minimum for this release.
# 11 Roaming
Roaming between network operators shall be supported.
# 12 Support of Operator Specific Services
The MMS may support operator specific services. Thereby network operators
shall be able to provide additional MMS services dealing with enhanced
addressing and charging.
If supported, the interaction between the MMS and Operator Specific Service
shall happen immediately after multimedia message submission time or
immediately before multimedia message delivery time, or both.
Multimedia Messages sent or delivered from/to users shall be subject to
operator specific services handling if:
\- the user is provisioned with operator specific services in the MMS user
profile. The user may be provisioned independently for operator specific
services applicable for submission and delivery of multimedia messages.\
Provisioning of Operator Specific Services for MMS is under control of the
HPLMN operator.
\- the MMS determines based on a pre-analysis of the recipient's address(es)
found in a submitted multimedia message that an Operator Specific Service
needs to be invoked. The definition of the addresses invoking MMS Operator
Specific Services is under control of the HPLMN operator(s) of the originating
and terminating subscribers.
If the Operator Specific Services needs to be invoked, the MMS shall
temporarily suspend the normal process of that multimedia message and shall
provide the Operator Specific Services with at least the following
information:
\- messaging event (submission, delivery)
\- multimedia message data:
\- sender identification
\- recipient addresses
As a response to the above request from the MMS, the Operator Specific
Services may request the MMS to perform one of the following actions:
\- leave the multimedia message unmodified and proceed with its processing;
\- reject the message.
\- modify one or more of the following multimedia message data:
\- sender identification
\- recipient addresses
Operator Specific Services shall be allowed to influence charging of the
message by providing additional information to the MMS. The MMS shall
transparently forward this information to the billing systems together with
the MMS charging relevant data.
## 12.1 Service Interaction
This subclause specifies interactions between Operator Specific Services and
other services in the MMS.
### 12.1.1 VASP Services
Operator Specific Services take precedence over VASP services. If short code
addressing to Value Added Services is supported by the MMS, the result from an
Operator Specific Service shall be subject to short code address translation.
Multimedia Messages submitted from a VASP may be subject to operator specific
services.
#