# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The response to emergency situations (e.g., floods, hurricanes, earthquakes,
terrorist attacks) depends on the communication capabilities of public
networks. In most cases, emergency responders use private radio systems to aid
in the logistics of providing critically needed restoration services. However,
certain government and emergency management officials and other authorised
users have to rely on public network services when the communication
capability of the serving network may be impaired, for example due to
congestion or partial network infrastructure outages, perhaps due to a direct
or indirect result of the emergency situation.
Multimedia Priority Service, supported by the 3GPP system set of services and
features, is one element creating the ability to deliver calls or complete
sessions of a high priority nature from mobile to mobile networks, mobile to
fixed networks, and fixed to mobile networks.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the service requirements for Multimedia
Priority Service (MPS).
The scope of this document is to specify those requirements of MPS necessary
to provide an end-to-end service and to interwork with external networks where
needed. Service interactions with external networks are considered within the
scope of this document although these interactions may be specified in other
standards.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 22.952: \"Priority Service Guide\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.067: \"enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service
(eMLPP); Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.067: \"enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service
(eMLPP); Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 24.067: \"enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service
(eMLPP); Stage 3\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**MPS session:** A session for which priority treatment is applied for
allocating and maintaining radio and network resources.
**MPS-subscribed UE:** A UE having MPS subscription.
**Priority Treatment:** Refers to mechanisms and features that increase the
success rate for MPS session invocation, establishment and maintenance until
release.
**Service User:** An individual authorized to use MPS and who has been granted
a user priority level assignment by a regional/national authority (i.e., an
agency authorised to issue priority assignments), and has a subscription to a
mobile network operator that supports the MPS feature.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
**MPS** Multimedia Priority Service
# 4 General description
MPS provides priority treatment to increase the probability of an authorized
Service User's Voice, Video, and Data communication session being successful.
Some form of priority treatment is applied to the MPS invocation and session
establishment, and continues to be applied until the MPS session is released.
The priority treatment may be applied before the invocation if a greater
probability of success in receiving, recognizing, and processing the
invocation is needed.
MPS allows qualified and authorized users to obtain priority access to the
next available radio channel on a priority basis before other PLMN users,
during situations when PLMN congestion is blocking session establishment
attempts. In addition, MPS supports priority sessions on an \"end-to-end\"
priority basis.
MPS is intended to be utilised for Voice, Video, and Data bearer services in
the Packet-switched (PS) domain and the IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS). It also
involves priority transitioning of MPS service (e.g., Voice) to the CS domain
when the network does not support the requested service in the PS domain. MPS
Voice, Video and Data sessions are based on providing priority treatment to
the corresponding commercial services offered to the public.
MPS includes network functions that fall into the following broad categories:
Service Invocation: The process to recognize and identify a request for an MPS
session. A MPS Service Provider network recognizes an MPS invocation based on
the presence of an MPS-unique identifier entered by the originating Service
User in the service request received by the network from the UE, or based on
the subscription profile of the originating UE, or as a regional/operator
option the subscription profile of the terminating UE.
NOTE: The option related to "subscription profile of the terminating UE" may
not involve end-to-end priority because this option is based on providing
priority only in the terminating network based on the terminating UE
subscription profile.
Authorization: The process to verify that a Service User is authorized for
MPS. This includes capabilities to verify authorization to receive priority
treatment in the radio access network and to access the MPS application
service (MPS Voice, Video, and Data).
End-to-End Priority Treatment: The process of providing priority treatment in
all parts of the path, from one endpoint to the other endpoint(s). End-to-end
priority treatment includes priority treatment by all MPS capable networks
involved in the MPS session path, the origination network and the termination
network as well as any transit networks in between.
Invocation-to-Release Priority Treatment: The process of providing priority
treatment to all phases of a session, from invocation until release, including
all steps in between.
The combination of End-to-End Priority Treatment and Invocation-to-Release
Priority Treatment includes both pre- and post-authorization treatment and
includes the following aspects:
1) Priority processing of the Service User's MPS invocation,
2) Admission control and allocation of network resources (including bearer
resources) in origination, termination, and transit networks, including
handovers,
3) Transport of signaling and media packets,
4) Priority processing within EPS and CN, and
5) Processing of the Service Users release of an MPS service session.
Network Interconnection and Protocol Interworking: A Service User's MPS
invocation and session establishment will involve transport and processing,
and the end-to-end signaling and media path may traverse multiple MPS Service
Provider networks. These end-to-end cases include, but are not limited to:
1) LTE-to-LTE for voice, video, and data services, including signaling for
call/session establishment and media;
2) LTE interworking with the CS domain, including a) calls originated in the
CS domain and terminated in LTE, and b) calls from LTE to the CS domain;
3) CS Fallback from LTE, for one or both ends of call, with maintenance of
existing PS domain MPS services, either in LTE or in a legacy system, e.g.,
the GPRS Core; and
4) LTE access to MPS data and video services not under IMS control.
# 5 High level requirements
## 5.1 General
Upon invocation of MPS, the system shall provide preferential treatment for
access and core network resources associated with the session (i.e.,
signalling and media bearer related resources within a domain and across
domains). A Service User is assigned a priority level by a regional/national
authority i.e., agency authorised to issue priority levels. Upon MPS
invocation the calling Service User\'s priority level is used to identify the
priority to be used for the session being established.
Pre-emption of active sessions shall be subject to regional/national
regulatory requirements.
Subject to regional/national regulatory policy, a PLMN should have the
capability to retain public access as a fundamental function. Therefore, MPS
traffic volumes should be limited (e.g. not to exceed a regional/national
specified percentage of any concentrated network resource, such as eNodeB
capacity), so as not to compromise this function.
## 5.2 Priority session treatment in originating network
When an MPS session is originated by a Service User, the session shall receive
priority treatment (priority access to signalling and media bearer resources
for voice, video, and data) in the originating PLMN based on the originating
Service User priority information (i.e., priority indication and priority
level).
When an MPS session is requested by a Service User and the originating network
supporting session establishment cannot assign the necessary resources to the
MPS session, the MPS session request shall be:
\- Queued,
\- Processed for the next available resource in accordance with the calling
Service User\'s priority level and session initiation time.
The network shall support the capability to inform the calling Service User
about the status of the MPS session (e.g., tones or signalling messages can be
used to indicate that the session request has been queued).
If the queued MPS session times out, then normal session processing applies.
## 5.3 Priority session progression
For an MPS session, a Service User shall receive priority session
treatment/progression through the PLMN(s). In case the MPS session traverses
or terminates in other networks (e.g., the PSTN), the network providing
priority session treatment/progression shall support the capability to
indicate to the other network that this is an MPS session.
Note: If there is no agreement on priority handling between networks, the
priority does not carry across network boundaries.
## 5.4 Priority session treatment in terminating network
When a terminating network receives an incoming MPS session establishment
attempt, the MPS session shall receive priority treatment (priority access to
signaling and media bearer resources for voice, video, and data) in the
terminating PLMN, based on the originating Service User priority information.
As an operator option, the terminating network may invoke priority treatment
for an incoming session from a non-MPS subscriber to a MPS subscriber (see
clause 4).
When the terminating network supporting session establishment cannot assign
the necessary resources to the MPS session, the MPS session request shall be:
\- Queued,
\- Processed for the next available resource in accordance with the Service
User\'s priority level and session arrival time.
The network shall support the capability to inform the calling Service User
about the status of the MPS session (e.g., tones or signalling messages can be
used to indicate that the session request has been queued).
If the queued MPS session times out, then normal session processing applies.
## 5.4a Priority Data Bearer Service
The Priority Data Bearer Service provides LTE access with MPS priority for
data and video services not under IMS control.
When a Service User invokes Priority Data Bearer Service for transport of any
data packets to and from that Service User, the network should give priority
in admission/upgrade of the Priority Data Bearer(s) and in packet data
scheduling in the event of congestion (for new sessions and upgrade to
existing sessions), subject to regional/national regulatory policy.
Specifically:
\- A Priority Data Bearer service session shall be given priority for
admission/upgrade over non-Priority Data Bearer sessions during times of
congestion;
\- Data packets belonging to a Priority Data Bearer service shall not be
dropped before data packets belonging to a non-Priority Data Bearer service
session, when the network is experiencing congestion, subject to the
limitation imposed by public access. Priority Data Bearer session QoS, as
required for the type of service invoked (e.g., packet delay), should be
maintained throughout the activity of the data session.
## 5.5 Priority levels
The Service User shall be assigned one of \"n\" user priority levels. The
priority levels are defined with 1 being the highest priority level and \"n\"
being the lowest priority level.
The 3GPP network shall be able to support at least 5 user priority levels.
Assignment of priority levels is a matter of regional/national and operator
policy.
In case of interconnecting networks that have different priority levels,
mappings between priority levels should be established.
## 5.6 Invocation on demand
MPS priority shall be invoked only when requested by the Service User.
However, certain priority treatments are provided prior to invocation as
specified in Section 5.13.
MPS is applied when idle resources required for an origination session request
are not available.
If idle resources are available when MPS is requested, the request shall be
allowed to proceed as normal, but marked as an MPS request.
An indication of an MPS session should be propagated towards the terminating
network regardless of the availability of resources in the originating
network.
## 5.7 Multimedia priority service code/identifier
MPS shall be requested by including an MPS code/identifier in the session
origination request, or optionally, by using an MPS input string (e.g., an MPS
public user identity).
## 5.8 Roaming
MPS shall be supported when the Service User is roaming and the visited
network and home network support MPS, and roaming agreements are in place for
MPS.
## 5.9 Handover
MPS shall be supported during and after the handover (i.e., sessions shall
continue to get priority treatment in the network during and after the
handover). Resource allocation for the session during handover shall receive
priority treatment (priority access to signalling and media bearer resources
for voice, video, and data) in the target cell based on the Service User
priority information (i.e., priority indication and priority level).
For handover of an MPS voice call to CS, only the active, or if all calls are
on hold, only the most recently active voice call shall be transferred and
receive the priority treatment in CS. Any remaining non-MPS voice sessions in
PS may be released. Any remaining MPS sessions, e.g., MPS data, in PS shall
not be released.
## 5.10 Interworking with CS domain
### 5.10.1 Mobile origination in the CS domain -> MPS mobile termination
For a Priority Service voice call, as described in [2] and as specified in [3,
4, 5], originated by a Service User in the CS Domain, MPS shall support
priority Mobile Termination of the session in the IMS. The priority
information received from the CS domain shall be mapped and used in the IMS
accordingly.
### 5.10.2 MPS mobile origination -> mobile termination to the CS domain
For an MPS voice session originated by a Service User in the IMS, MPS shall
support priority delivery of the voice session to the serving CS Domain. The
calling Service User priority level shall be sent to the CS Domain.
### 5.10.3 CS Fallback from LTE
Circuit Switched (CS) fallback from LTE needs to be given priority in the LTE
system to support MPS voice in cells where voice is not supported in the PS
domain. Priority treatment applies to both mobile originated calls and mobile
terminated calls.
When an MPS Service User in LTE originates a voice call intended to be
supported in the CS domain, and when configured by the operator, the LTE
system shall provide priority treatment in the signalling and resource
allocations needed to support priority CS fallback.
When a terminating LTE network receives indication of an incoming call to the
CS domain, the LTE system shall provide priority treatment in the signalling
and resource allocations needed to support priority CS fallback.
## 5.11 Network Management Functions
Based on regional/national requirements and network operator policy, an MPS
session shall be exempted from network management controls up to the point
where further exemption would cause network instability. Congestion controls,
overload controls, load balancing, and load re-balancing shall not adversely
impact MPS.
## 5.12 Policy Control
The 3GPP network shall be able to make and enforce policy decisions regarding
relative treatment of MPS application services (Voice, Video and Data) for
admission control subject to regional/national regulatory requirements and
operator policy.
The 3GPP network shall be able to make and enforce policy decisions regarding
relative treatment of MPS application services traffic depending on the media
type subject to regional/national regulatory requirements and operator policy
(e.g., based on operator policy or regulation, Voice should have higher
priority than Video or Data).
## 5.13 Priority before service invocation
### 5.13.1 Overview of priority before service invocation
Providing priority treatment to MPS-subscribed UEs during attachment for radio
access and network connectivity before the MPS application service session
invocation requests improves the probability of an MPS session request being
successful. This involves providing priority treatment for the signalling
during the UE attachment for radio access and network connectivity based on a
subscription profile. Prior to accessing subscription related information in
the network, subscription related information stored in the UE is used, e.g.,
membership in the special access class required to be reserved for MPS use as
per 3GPP TS 22.011 [6]. Without such priority treatment, a Service User's UE
might fail to gain radio access network and CN connectivity which in turn
means that there is no access to the MPS application services (Voice, Video,
and Data). Priority treatment before MPS session request increases the
probability of successful MPS session establishment and any associated process
for the Service User authorization (e.g., credential collection).
### 5.13.2 Requirement for priority before service invocation
The 3GPP network shall be able to provide priority treatment to an MPS-
subscribed UE before the MPS application service invocation (e.g., priority
treatment for the default and IMS signaling bearers establishment based on a
subscription profile).
The 3GPP network shall be able to provide priority requests for access and
attachment to the 3GPP network from an MPS-subscribed UE, including those
procedures applied prior to and during the access of subscription related
information (e.g., based on the UE membership in a special access class for
MPS).
## 5.14 Recovery/Restoration
The 3GPP system shall allow operational measures to expedite service recovery
and restoration (i.e., service restoration after failure/unavailability).
Should a disruption occur, MPS shall be re-provisioned, repaired, or restored
to required service levels on a priority basis subject to regional/national
regulatory requirements and operator policy.
## 5.15 Quality of Service (QoS)
In certain cases, the QoS characteristics (e.g., packet delay and packet loss)
for an MPS session may be the same as the underlying communication service
(e.g., voice, video or data) used to support the MPS session, with the MPS
session being provided priority treatment subject to regional/national
regulatory and operator policies. In other cases, there may be need to request
specific QoS characteristics for the MPS session (e.g., specific data
communications as described in clause 5.4a).
The 3GPP network shall allow selection and/or configuration of QoS rule(s)
appropriate for MPS Voice, Video and Data.
The 3GPP network shall allow enforcement of QoS rule(s) for MPS Voice, Video
and Data.
# 6 MMI aspects
In the case when MPS invocation is based on the presence of an MPS-specific
service code entered by the originating Service User, this specific service
code must be defined for the 3GPP network to recognize such an invocation.
The 3GPP network supporting on-demand invocation of MPS shall recognize a
service code indicating a request for MPS.
The choice of an MPS-specific service code is a regional/national and operator
matter.
# 7 Security and privacy
## 7.1 General
Operators support and use a wide range of security tools and capabilities to
protect the 3GPP system and all supported application services. It is
important that appropriate measures be taken to ensure that the use of these
security capabilities does not negatively impact MPS.
Use of security mechanisms (e.g., intrusion detection / prevention systems,
deep packet inspection, and encryption) shall not interfere with priority
treatment mechanisms supporting authorized MPS usage.
## 7.2 Access Control
Access to MPS shall be determined based on the subscriber\'s profile. A level
of authorisation in addition to authorisation to use the IMS is required.
Unauthorized access to MPS shall be prevented.
## 7.3 Integrity
The 3GPP system shall be capable of providing integrity protection to MPS
signalling and media bearers for voice, video, and data.
## 7.4 Confidentiality/Privacy
The 3GPP system shall be capable of providing confidentiality protection to
MPS signalling and media bearers for voice, video, and data as appropriate.
The 3GPP system shall be capable of maintaining anonymity of the originating
Service User to the terminating party, if requested by the originating Service
User.
## 7.5 Use of Encryption
If encryption is used on MPS communication, priority information shall be
accessible to all network elements which have to understand and process that
priority information.
# 8 Charging aspects
A network supporting MPS shall be capable of recording the following charging
information, in addition to non-MPS information:
\- MPS invocation attempt and successful session set-up,
\- Session bearers (originations and/or terminations) on which MPS was used to
gain access to resources,
\- Recording of MPS information, e.g., priority level.
#