# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This Technical Specification defines the requirements for the support of IP
Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) group management capability. IMS group management
capability provides a possibility to manage network based groups. IMS group
management allows defining different roles and rights to the members of a
group, defining group level information and properties, etc.
The IMS group management is a generic capability that can be utilised together
with several different services. Some examples of the services that can use
IMS group management are
\- Presence service\ Presentity has a control of who is able to see his
presence information. The control is carried out via access control lists,
which can be managed with IMS group management. Number of presentities can be
subscribed via a list of presentities. The list can be managed with IMS group
management.
\- Chat\ Administrator of the chat is able to control users that are allowed
to participate in the chat. The control is carried out via access control
lists, which can be managed with IMS group management.
\- Messaging\ In messaging the server may be able to distribute the messages
to several recipients based on the delivery list. The content of the delivery
list can be managed with IMS group management.
The above examples show only very limited set of possibilities where IMS group
management can be utilised. The use of IMS group management is not restricted
to these
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the stage one description of the IMS group
management. Stage one is the set of requirements which shall be supported for
the provision of IMS group management, seen primarily from the subscribers\'
and service providers\' points of view.
The TS includes information applicable to network operator, service provider,
terminal and network manufacturer.
Additional functionalities not documented in the TS are considered outside the
scope of this TS. Such additional functionality may be on a network-wide
basis, nation-wide basis or particular to a group of users. Such additional
functionality shall not compromise conformance to the requirements of the IMS
group management defined in this specification.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR21.905: 3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification
Group Services and System Aspects; Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications
[2] 3GPP TS 22.141: 3rd Generation Partnership Project;Technical Specification
Group Services and System Aspects; Presence Service; Stage 1
[3] 3GPP TS 22.340: 3rd Generation Partnership Project;Technical Specification
Group Services and System Aspects; IMS Messaging; Stage 1
**Group administrator:** Group administrator has the full set of rights for
viewing and managing the group identifier, group specific information, service
specific group information, member identifiers and group member properties.
**Group content:** Group content includes the group identifier, the group
specific information, the service specific group information, and the list of
group member identifiers with the associated group member properties.
**Group member:** Group member is an entity in the group.Further 3G related
definitions are given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
IP Internet Protocol
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
# 4 IMS group management
## 4.1 Informative description of group management
This clause has an informative description of the IMS group management and its
role in a few service examples. Furthermore, example characteristics of the
group will be described to give an overview of a group and its management.
Group as a concept means a group of persons in this context. Groups can be
used by group related services such as conference calls, presence service
(c.f. 3GPP TS 22.141 [2]) and messaging (c.f. 3GPP TS 22.340 [3]). This
description does not cover requirements for group services themselves but only
management of the groups that can be utilized by the group related services.
The driver for specifying generic group management is twofold: the same group
created by user (or service provider) can be used in many services and same
group management functions can be utilised independently of the service being
used.
In conference call, the control machinery in network would use a group to
setup a conference call and distribution of group media. In messaging area,
group management could be utilized in chat sessions (Figure 1) and
distribution lists (Figure 2). A chat session could be created by joining a
group. The message distribution would be handled by the messaging server. The
user would send messages to a group and the server would distribute the
messages. In the context of presence service, the user could create groups of
watchers with the group management features and different presence information
would be provided to each of the groups. These are only few examples of
possible use of IMS group management and they intend to clarify the scope of
group management.
{width="4.798611111111111in" height="2.2715277777777776in"}
Figure 1. Example: groups in context of chat service
{width="5.0055555555555555in" height="2.647222222222222in"}
Figure 2. Example: group used as a message delivery list
How the group is used within a service is outside the scope of this document
and outside the scope of group management. For example, taking part in a chat
session, making a conference call and give access to certain attributes of the
presence information are all group service specific issues and therefore
outside the scope of group management. However, all of them could use groups
managed by generic IMS group management.
The IMS group management is a common set of actions that can be taken by the
group administrator of a group or the group members. Typically, the group
consists of members who may have varying rights for configuring or seeing the
group properties.
# 5 High level requirements
## 5.1 Group management roles
The IMS group management shall provide the ability for users to create groups
that can be utilized in context of different services.
The following roles are identified for IMS Group Management:
a) group administrator;\ Group administrator shall always have the full set of
rights for viewing and managing the group and member properties. Each group
shall have at least one group administrator at all times. The group
administrator is not a group member by default. The entity creating a group
becomes a group administrator.
b) group member; and\ Group member rights shall be assigned by the one who has
rights to do that. Group member can be another group.
c) others.\ These are services and entities that are external to the group
(i.e. not group administrators or members). They may or may not be able to use
or access group content depending on the group specific information.
## 5.2 General requirements
The groups controlled by the IMS group management shall be associated with
a) a group identifier;\ Each group shall have a globally unique, addressable
group identifier, which may be suggested by the group administrator when
creating the group. The IMS service provider allocates group identifier. The
group identifier is used to refer to a specific group (for example when
sending a message, when updating the list of group members...).
b) group specific information; and\ Group specific information is divided into
two parts
1) group information; and\ The group information contains informative text.
This could be used for example to describe the type and usage of the group.
2) group properties.\ Group properties are:
i) group visibility; and\ Group visibility defines who are able to see the
group identifier when performing a search. The following classes exist:
> \- only the group administrators; and\ \- the group administrators and the
> group members.
ii) group duration.\ Once created, a group will exist until either:
> \- its expiration time; or\ \- administratively removed.
c) service specific group information.\ The service specific group information
may give additional information on how the group should be used in the context
of a specific service. For example, it may indicate that the group shall be
used as an access list in the context of the presence service. Detailed
description of the service specific group information is not within the scope
of this TS. Possible values can be defined by the terminal manufacturer,
operator, service provider, or by other specifications. The service specific
group information is transparent to the group management.
## 5.3 Group member requirements
Requirements for the members are
> a) Member identification; and\ It shall be possible to identify the members
> of the group based on the
>
> 1) member identifier;\ Each single entityshall have a globally unique,
> addressable identifier(s).
>
> 2) group identifier; or\ Member can be a another group(s) which is referred
> with a group identifier(s).
3) commonly known group of entities.\ Member can be any entity that has
defined characteristics in the identifier field.
b) group member properties.\ It shall be possible to associate properties for
each group member. Such properties are
1) member rights;\ Each member shall be associated with rights. They define
which actions the member is allowed to perform.
2) anonymity; and\ It shall be possible to hide the member identifier.
3) service specific member information.\ The service specific member
information may give additional information on member in the context of a
specific service. For example, it may indicate the screen name of the member
in context of chat service. Detailed description of the service specific
member information is not within the scope of this TS. Possible values can be
defined by the terminal manufacturer, operator, service provider, or by other
specifications. The service specific member information is transparent to the
group management.
## 5.4 Management requirements
The IMS group management shall provide following capabilities to manage
groups. The rights associated to the members control the capabilities they are
able to perform. These capabilities are:
a) create a group;\ The entity creating a group becomes a group administrator.
The administrator shall not become group member by default when creating a
group. Further, when creating a group it shall be possible to
1) define the members of the group;
2) define group specific information;
3) define service specific group information; and
4) define member properties.
b) delete a group;\ It shall be possible to delete a group.
c) add members to a group;\ It shall be possible to add members to a group.
d) get member list of a group;\ It shall be possible to get the list of all
members of a group. In case of nested group only the group identifier of the
nested group will be provided.
e) remove members from a group;\ It shall be possible to remove members from a
group.
f) get group member identification and group member properties;\ It shall be
possible to get member identification and group member properties.
g) modify group member properties;\ It shall be possible to modify group
member properties within their rights.
h) get group specific information and service specific group information;\ It
shall be possible to get group specific information and service specific group
information.
i) modify the group specific information and service specific group
information;\ It shall be possible to modify all group specific information
and service specific group information.
j) simultaneous access from multiple terminals; and\ It shall be possible to
manage groups simultaneously from multiple terminals (e.g. via mobile phone
and PC).
> k) Search.\ It shall be possible for a user to retrieve the group
> identifiers of all the groups for which he has the group administrator role
> within his operator\'s network.
>
> It shall be possible for a user to retrieve the group identifiers of all the
> groups for which he has the group member role within his operator\'s
> network. If a group is not visible for its group members, then the group
> identifier will not be revealed to the user.
>
> In both cases the search criteria shall be a text string. It shall be
> possible to use wild cards as part of the text string.
It shall be possible for authorised users and applications to use the group
content. Some parts of the group content may not be revealed (e.g. group
properties...).
## 5.5 Notification and acknowledgement requirements
The rights associated with the group members and administrator(s) may grant
them access to some notification features described below.
It shall be possible for the group members, administrator(s) and authorised
users and applications to subscribe to different events concerning the group.
When an event occurs the entities interested in that event shall be notified.
The notification categories are:
a) change in group specific information;
b) change in service specific group information;
c) change in group members; and\ This includes also the changes in the number
of anonymous members.
d) change in group member properties.
# 6 Security
The use and access to group content and notification(s) of changes shall be
supported in a secure manner. It shall be possible to authenticate and
authorise users and applications requesting access to the group content (IMS
security and authentication mechanisms may be used). It shall only be possible
for the group content and notification(s) of changes to be supplied to the
authenticated and authorized users and applications.
The group management shall support measures to detect and prevent attempts to
abuse the group content and notification(s) of changes. The integrity of the
group content and notification(s) of changes during transfer shall be assured
to extent of the network capabilities.
NOTE: In case of non-IMS users using and accessing group content and
notification(s) of changes, alternative security mechanisms may be used. Such
mechanisms are to be defined by IMS service provider and they are not subject
to standardisation. Those mechanisms should ensure the authentication and
authorisation of users and applications that access the group content. The
mechanisms shall provide integrity and confidentiality during the transport of
the group content and notification(s) of changes.
It shall be possible to protect the request of group content and the
notification of changes in the group content from attacks (e.g.,
eavesdropping, tampering, and replay attacks).
# 7 Charging
Charging for IMS group management shall be based on existing IMS charging
mechanisms as appropriate.
IMS group management shall be able to support various charging models,
including:
a) pay per transaction;
b) volume based charging;\ Charging may be based on the volume of transferred
group content.
c) indirect charging; and\ Group management may be indirectly charged when it
is incorporated as part of a service.
d) offline charging and online charging.
#