# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the service requirements for operation of the
MCData service. MCData makes use of capabilities included in Group
Communication System Enablers for LTE (GCSE_LTE), Proximity Services (ProSe),
Isolated E-UTRAN operation for Public Safety (IOPS) and Mission Critical
Services Common Requirements (MCCoRe) with additional requirements specific to
the MCData Service. The MCData Service can be used for public safety
applications and also for general commercial applications (e.g., utility
companies and railways).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Specification set\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.280: \"Mission Critical Services Common Requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.179: \"Mission Critical Push to Talk (MCPTT) over LTE; Stage
1\".
[5] ETSI TS 100 392-2 v.3.7.1: \"Terrestrial Trunked Radio (TETRA); Voice plus
Data (V+D); Part 2: Air Interface (AI)
> [6] 3GPP TS 22.281: \"Mission Critical Video services over LTE\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Conversation:** A series of messages that are linked to the same topic
within a group or one-to-one data communication.
**Conversation ID:** An identifier that uniquely identifies a conversation
within a group or one-to-one data communication.
**MCData Conversation Hang Time:** The time from the transmission of an MCData
message after which a subsequent MCData message is no longer considered to be
linked to the previous one.
**MCData System** : The collection of applications, services, and enabling
capabilities required to provide Mission Critical Data for a Mission Critical
Organization.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
IOPS Isolated E-UTRAN Operation for Public Safety
SDS Short Data Service
# 4 Overview
MCData defines a service for Mission Critical Data services. As well as voice
services, current mission critical users have been increasing their use of
data services, including low throughput services on legacy networks and data
services on commercial networks. This need will continue to grow with the
creation of the new multimedia services. The MCData service needs to provide a
means to manage all data connections of mission critical users in the field
and provide relevant resources to the ones who need it. For example mission
critical users already use event manager software along with the voice system.
The migration to LTE networks will allow mission critical users to operate
current and new data services whilst relying on the fundamental capabilities
of mission critical communication such as defined for MCPTT in [4] and
included into MCCoRe [3].
The MCData Service provides a set of communication services that will be
directly used by the user or functions that will be called by external
applications in control rooms.
The MCData Service will reuse functions including end-to-end encryption, key
management, authentication of the sender, etc. defined in [3] in order to
provide group communications for data services. As for all mission critical
services, users affiliate to groups in order to receive communications
directed to the group.
In addition, the MCData Service will provide a set of generic capabilities
such as: messaging, file distribution, data streaming, IP proxy, etc. Also,
the MCData Service will provide specific services such as conversation
management, data base enquiries, internet access, robots control.
The MCData Service is expected to have open interfaces in the network. It
needs also to provide an opportunity for a variety of multimedia applications
using the MCData Service.
# 5 MCData generic capability requirements common for on-network and off-
network
## 5.1 Introduction
MCData makes frequent use of a set of capabilities and enablers that allows
for many end user services to be built on a common foundation. Several generic
capabilities are defined for use in the MCData Service. These capabilities can
be used on their own to transfer files, messages and other content to
individuals and affiliated members of groups or combined with other services,
through an application, to provide complete end users services as determined
by the authorities implementing the service. The MCData generic capabilities
are common for on-network and off-network.
It is not intended to invent new protocols for the MCData Service. Where
existing protocols are efficient and sufficient, the service should make use
of these protocols.
## 5.2 SDS feature
### 5.2.1 General
The SDS feature of the MCData Service could be considered as a basic protocol
carrying a limited size, but variable content, payload message. This message
could be text or could be marked for extensible purposes including short
binary messages for application communication. Messaging could be one-to-one
messaging or could be group messaging using groups as specified in MCCoRe.
### 5.2.2 Requirements
[R-5.2.2-001] The MCData Service shall provide an SDS feature for conveyance
of limited size, variable content, messages.
[R-5.2.2-002] The MCData SDS shall provide a group service to affiliated
members with policy assertion capabilities (e.g. certain types of message or
content may only be relevant to certain members of a group due, for example,
to location).
[R-5.2.2-003] The MCData SDS shall provide a one to one service with policy
assertion capabilities (e.g. policy to limit certain types of message or
content to certain users due, for example, to location or user privilege).
[R-5.2.2-004] The MCData SDS shall provide the option to include a content
payload of at least [1000] characters of 8 bit text or [500] characters of 16
bit text or [250] characters of 32 bit text and the necessary character
encoding information (for example to identify alphabet used).
[R-5.2.2-005] The MCData SDS shall provide the option to include a content
payload of at least [1000] characters of hyperlink or interleaved text and
hyperlink(s) to allow subsequent access to linked content (which may be a
large file).
[R-5.2.2-006] The MCData SDS shall provide the option to include a content
payload of at least [1000] bytes of binary data to be used by a local running
application and the necessary addressing detail to identify the intended
application.
[R-5.2.2-007] The MCData SDS shall provide a message thread indication so that
multiple message flows can be managed independently.
[R-5.2.2-008] When replying to a message on the MCData SDS or sending any
message which should be coupled with previously sent or received messages or
message flows; the message thread indication shall use the same indication as
was used for those previous messages.
[R-5.2.2-009] The MCData SDS shall provide a selectable read receipt
indication. When requested, the receiving entity shall provide receipt
indication for delivered and read messages as appropriate.
NOTE 1: The read indication will implicitly indicate delivered as well.
[R-5.2.2-010] The MCData SDS shall provide a configurable read receipt
indication. When configured, the receiving entity shall provide receipt
indication addressed to the application for delivered and read messages as
appropriate.
NOTE 2: The read indication will implicitly indicate delivered as well.
[R-5.2.2-011] The MCData SDS shall permit delivery history interrogation for
suitably authorized users.
[R-5.2.2-012] The MCData SDS shall provide the option to add a field
indicating location of the sending user/UE.
[R-5.2.2-013] The MCData SDS shall allow empty messages including only a field
indicating location of the sending user/UE.
### 5.2.3 Remote Start Requirements Using SDS
[R-5.2.3-001] SDS content received in a UE, addressed to a known local
application that is not yet running shall cause the UE to start the local
application and pass the content to the application. This could be used to
start an application and pass to it the initial data.
[R-5.2.3-002] The MCData SDS shall provide the capability to remotely start a
local application (e.g. situational awareness). This may be through specific
use of binary payload on theSDS.
## 5.3 File distribution capability
### 5.3.1 General
File distribution is a fundamental capability of the MCData Service. File
distribution can be used to provide a standalone file transfer capability or
can be invoked by a controlling application to support the purpose of the
application.
### 5.3.2 Requirements
[R-5.3.2-001] The MCData Service shall provide a file distribution capability.
[R-5.3.2-002] The MCData file distribution capability shall provide a service
to allow a user to send a file to any combination of individual users and/or
affiliated groups.
[R-5.3.2-003] The MCData file distribution capability shall provide an option
for each recipient to choose to receive the file or not (e.g. by storing the
file and sending a link (URL) to all relevant members).
NOTE 1: By using this capability a user can choose when to receive the file.
[R-5.3.2-004] The MCData file distribution capability shall allow a user to
reject to receive the file where appropriate.
[R-5.3.2-005] The MCData file distribution capability shall provide a sending
user selectable indication for mandatory download so that the UE, for all
relevant receiving members, will automatically download the file.
NOTE 2: The mandatory indication provides a system level capability and could
be invoked automatically by need of the application or might be provided for
selection by the user.
[R-5.3.2-006] The MCData file distribution capability shall provide download
complete indications for each recipient successfully downloading the file.
[R-5.3.2-007] The MCData file distribution capability shall allow the sender
to select to send the file immediately to all chosen users.
[R-5.3.2-008] The MCData file distribution capability shall make use of
available system delivery efficiencies for distribution of common information
to users within a specific geographic area and able to receive at the same
time.
[R-5.3.2-009] The MCData file distribution capability shall allow a user to
cancel distribution of files they have sent, but have not been delivered.
[R-5.3.2-010] The MCData file distribution capability shall allow an
authorised user to cancel distribution of files being sent or waiting to be
sent.
## 5.4 Data streaming capability
### 5.4.1 General
Data streaming is a fundamental capability of the MCData Service. Data
streaming can be used to provide a standalone data streaming capability or can
be invoked by a controlling application to support the purpose of the
application.
### 5.4.2 Requirements
[R-5.4.2-001] The MCData Service shall provide a data streaming capability.
[R-5.4.2-002] The MCData data streaming capability shall provide an option
that allows each recipient to choose to receive the data stream or not (e.g.
by sending a link (URL) to all relevant members).
[R-5.4.2-003] The MCData data streaming capability shall allow a user to
reject to receive the datastream.
[R-5.4.2-004] The MCData data streaming capability shall provide a sending
user selectable indication for automatic reception by the UE.
[R-5.4.2-005] The MCData data streaming capability shall provide start and
stop records to the sender for each recipient successfully receiving the data
stream.
[R-5.4.2-006] The MCData data streaming capability shall make use of available
system delivery efficiencies for streaming of common information to users
within the same relevant area and able to receive at the same time.
[R-5.4.2-007] The MCData data streaming capability shall allow a user to
cancel streaming of data they have initiated including data remaining buffered
in the system waiting to be streamed.
[R-5.4.2-008] The MCData data streaming capability shall allow an authorised
user to terminate streaming of data being sent and cancel streaming of data
remaining buffered in the system waiting to be streamed.
## 5.5 IP connectivity
### 5.5.1 Service description
IP connectivity can be used for MCData applications that are based on the IP
client-server paradigm. The UE can contain a client using a service in the
network (e.g. a police officer accessing a server on the police Intranet from
his mobile phone). The UE can also contain a server that is accessed by other
UEs (e.g. a mobile information display that is controlled by a police officer
from his mobile phone). As an UE for MCData application can be an unmanned
device, or device without user interface, authorization of IP data transport
can be provided remotely by an authorized user for the UE.
### 5.5.2 Requirements
[R-5.5.2-001] The MCData Service shall enable a UE to initiate transport of IP
data towards a server in the network or another UE.
[R-5.5.2-002] The MCData Service shall enable incoming transport of IP data
towards a UE, initiated by another UE.
[R-5.5.2-003] The MCData Service shall enable an authorized person for an UE
to authorize initiation of transport of IP data from that UE to specific
destinations. This authorization may be preconfigured or may be provided by
the authorized person when IP data transport to a new destination is
initiated. Authorization may be revoked on demand by the authorized person.
[R-5.5.2-004] The MCData Service shall enable a UE or authorized person for
this UE to authorize initiation of incoming transport of IP data from specific
other UEs. This authorization may be preconfigured, or may be provided by the
authorized person when IP data transport from a new destination is initiated.
Authorization may be revoked on demand by the authorized person.
[R-5.5.2-005] The MCData Service shall support incoming and outgoing IP data
transport for a UE with a higher per packet priority (e.g. QCI=6).
[R-5.5.2-006] The MCData Service shall enable an authorized person to remotely
authorize the use of higher per packet priority for a particular UE.
# 6 MCData specific requirements
## 6.1 MCData Services common for on network and off network
### 6.1.1 Conversation management including delivery notification
#### 6.1.1.1 Service description
A group of people can be involved in different activities in an operational
situation. As a consequence, there is a need to manage different activities
and to easily retrieve data exchanged around one activity. Conversation
management can be seen as an aggregation of related MCData transmissions for a
given activity.
The system will not be able to manage an infinite number of conversations.
Rather than simply limiting the number of conversations and asking users to
send a notification when the conversation ends, it is proposed here to limit
the time of a conversation.
#### 6.1.1.2 Service requirements
[R-6.1.1.2-001] The MCData Service shall provide a conversation management
feature for each MCData User.
[R-6.1.1.2-002] The MCData conversation management service shall be available
for group communication as well as for one-to-one communications.
[R-6.1.1.2-003] The MCData Service conversation management feature shall use
the SDS and file distribution generic capabilities.
NOTE: For instance, if SDS and file distribution capability are combined for a
conversation, the two thread indications are assumed to appear in the
conversation as unique.
[R-6.1.1.2-004] A conversation shall be identified through a unique
conversation ID.
[R-6.1.1.2-005] The MCData Service conversation management feature shall
provide an MCData Conversation Hang Time after which the last message/file
shall no longer be correlated to the previous.
[R-6.1.1.2-006] The MCData Conversation Hang Time shall be available to the
user.
[R-6.1.1.2-007] The MCData Conversation Hang Time shall be configurable for
each MCData User and each MCData Group.
[R-6.1.1.2-008] The MCData Service conversation management feature shall allow
multiple parallel conversations for the same group or the same pair of users.
[R-6.1.1.2-009] The MCData Service shall provide a mechanism to send a
"message delivered" and/or "message read" notification to the message sender
and to one or more authorized MCData users for each message of a conversation.
[R-6.1.1.2-010] The MCData Service shall make use of SDS and file distribution
capability to provide relevant access to delivery history and delivery
efficiencies.
### 6.1.2 Robots
#### 6.1.2.1 Robots remote control
##### 6.1.2.1.1 Service description
Robots as defined in 3GPP TS 22.281 [6] will be used more and more to provide
unique services to mission critical organizations. Critical communications
users need, as a consequence, a common communication framework for robots
which can take advantage of different transport technologies such as LTE. The
MCData Service, working in conjunction with existing robot control
capabilities, will provide mechanisms to do that.
The following sub-clause aims at defining requirements to ensure robot control
communication can be provided through LTE.
We expect different manufacturers for robots. As a consequence a well-known
transport framework is needed in order to ensure easy integration of new
robots.
##### 6.1.2.1.2 Requirements
[R-6.1.2.1.2-001] The MCData Service shall enable the control of robots.
[R-6.1.2.1.2-002] The MCData Service shall provide a common transmission
framework to use and control robots.
[R-6.1.2.1.2-003] The MCData Service shall provide a default control latency
depending on the robots type under
\- 50 ms for an aerial unmanned vehicle;
\- 200 ms for an aquatic or submarine unmanned vehicle; and
\- 400 ms for a terrestrial unmanned vehicle .
NOTE: At this stage of the work, the latency is an end to end latency. The
split between network latency and robot latency is left for stage 2. The
latency is measured between the action of the pilot and the movement of the
robot (not only MCData Service).
[R-6.1.2.1.2-004] The MCData Service shall be able to simultaneously manage
multiple robots and robot types.
[R-6.1.2.1.2-005] Void.
[R-6.1.2.1.2-006] The MCData Service shall support management of an aerial
unmanned vehicle at an altitude of up to 150 m above the floor.
[R-6.1.2.1.2-007] The MCData Service shall have a default priority scheme for
each kind of robot (aerial, aquatic, submarine or terrestrial unmanned
vehicles).
[R-6.1.2.1.2-008] The MCData Service shall be able to provide relevant
priorities to different MCData communications according to the default
priority scheme without additional configuration.
[R-6.1.2.1.2-009] The MCData Service default priority scheme shall ensure that
data exchanged for controlling a robot has relevant high priority amongst user
data and cannot be pre-empted.
[R-6.1.2.1.2-010] The MCData Service default priority scheme shall ensure that
essential robots telemetry data (such as position when out of sight) has also
a high priority and cannot be pre-empted.
[R-6.1.2.1.2-011] The essential telemetry data shall be identified and
minimized in order not to forbid critical operational data to be transmitted.
#### 6.1.2.2 Robot identification
##### 6.1.2.2.1 Service description
Robots as defined in [6] (e.g., aerial, aquatic, submarine and terrestrial
unmanned vehicles) will need to be identified across the organization in order
to share who is doing what.
There will also be a need to exchange information specific to different
robots.
##### 6.1.2.2.2 Requirements
[R-6.1.2.2.2-001] The MCData Service shall provide a means to identify robots
used by a Mission Critical Organization.
[R-6.1.2.2.2-002] The MCData Service shall provide a mechanism for an
authorized user to get identifying information for one or more robots
associated with all MCData UEs that are under the coverage of the MCData
System. Location information may be also sent with identifying data.
[R-6.1.2.2.2-003] The MCData Service shall provide to an MCData authorized
User a means to get the location of each robot associated with any MCData UE
under the coverage of the MCData System.
[R-6.1.2.2.2-004] The MCData Service shall be able to provide characteristics
(free formatted information transported by 3GPP) of an MCData UE associated
with a given robot to the authorized user.
### 6.1.3 MCData enhanced status
#### 6.1.3.1 Service description
Mission Critical Service users need to share status information specific to
their activities. For instance status can be: available, in operation on site,
going to the operation site, or just arrived. When working in a group, there
is a need to constantly share this information.
#### 6.1.3.2 Requirements
[R-6.1.3.2-001] The MCData Service shall provide a means to share in real-time
operational status information between members of a selected group.
[R-6.1.3.2-002] The possible operational status values shall be configurable.
[R-6.1.3.2-003] The minimum number of possible different operational status
values shall be 32.
## 6.2 MCData Services requirements specific to on-network use
### 6.2.1 Database enquiries and secured internet access
#### 6.2.1.1 Service description
Mission critical users are already using data applications today for which a
priority management will need to be implemented.
#### 6.2.1.2 Requirements
[R-6.2.1.2-001] The MCData Service shall provide controlled access to external
services (e.g. data bases, web sites, event manager software).
[R-6.2.1.2-002] The MCData Service shall be able to select priorities to data
flows for external services (e.g. data bases access, web sites, event manager
software).
### 6.2.2 Transmission control requirements
#### 6.2.2.1 General
[R-6.2.2.1-001] The MCData Service shall determine which Participant(s) are
allowed to transmit data.
[R-6.2.2.1-002a] The MCData Service shall provide a mechanism so that small
data items can be automatically sent to the chosen receiving users (private
communication) or to affiliated members of the Selected MCData group.
[R-6.2.2.1-002b] The MCData Service shall provide a mechanism so that when an
MCData request to transmit is granted, the data can be automatically sent on
to the chosen receiving users (private communication) or to affiliated members
of the Selected MCData group (i.e. without prior acceptance from the receiving
user).
[R-6.2.2.1-002c] The MCData Service shall provide a mechanism so that when an
MCData request to transmit is granted the data can be temporarily stored in
the system and an invitation to receive is sent to the chosen receiving users
(private communication) or to affiliated members of the Selected MCData group.
NOTE 1: This is for support of sending large data files, allowing the
receiving user to choose when to receive.
[R-6.2.2.1-002d] The MCData Service may provide a configurable default time to
live value for data waiting to be delivered to a receiving user.
[R-6.2.2.1-002e] The MCData Service may terminate all remaining invitations to
receive after expiry of the time to live.
[R-6.2.2.1-003] The MCData Service shall provide a mechanism for the MCData
Administrator to configure the maximum data size for automatic data
transmission.
[R-6.2.2.1-004] When an MCData UE has begun to transmit data or when the data
transmission has completed the MCData Service shall begin to send the data to
all affiliated members of the selected group.
NOTE 2: Where the MCData Service chooses to use eMBMS to broadcast the data to
several users, the UE will need to be notified to select the relevant channel
before the data is sent.
NOTE 3: The MCData Service might choose to temporarily store the transmitted
data and deliver it independently to receiving users as appropriate.
[R-6.2.2.1-005] The MCData Service may withhold permission to transmit for
service based pre-emptive capacity reasons.
[R-6.2.2.1-006] Following an MCData Service request for permission to transmit
on the Selected MCData Group, an Affiliated MCData Group Member that made but
was not granted the request shall be given an indication that permission to
transmit was not given at that time.
[R-6.2.2.1-007] When a user is not allowed to start a communication the
request may be queued or rejected.
#### 6.2.2.2 Receiving data
[R-6.2.2.2-001] An MCData user shall be able to choose to download data for
any recently invited group communications.
NOTE: A list of available data is stored and presented to the user on demand.
The term, recent, might be time limited, size of list limited or any other
limit.
#### 6.2.2.3 Accessing data
[R-6.2.2.3-001] The MCData Service shall provide, periodically and on demand,
to the MCData User the list of available recently invited data group
communications for which he is affiliated.
[R-6.2.2.3-002] The MCData user shall be able to affiliate to one or more
MCData Groups subject to MCData settings and UE capabilities.
#### 6.2.2.4 Data reconfiguration and termination
[R-6.2.2.4-001] The MCData Service shall make efficient use of resources.
[R-6.2.2.4-002] The MCData Service shall provide a notification to a
transmitting MCData Group Member if there are no other MCData Group Members
who have affiliated to the MCData Group.
[R-6.2.2.4-003] Following a notification that there are no other MCData Group
Members affiliated to the MCData Group and if the transmitting MCData Group
Member does not terminate their request to transmit, the MCData Service may
either (terminate the permission to transmit) or (allow the transmission to
continue and store the transmitted data for a time to live time and deliver
invitations to receive to subsequent affiliating members).
### 6.2.3 Communication termination
[R-6.2.3-001] The MCData Service shall enable an authorized MCData User to
terminate the transmission of a transmitting participant at any time.
[R-6.2.3-002] A transmitting participant shall be able to indicate to the
MCData Service that the participant no longer wants to transmit.
[R-6.2.3-003] If a transmitting participant of an MCData Service Group
Communication is pre-empted, the MCData Service shall terminate the
communication.
[R-6.2.3-004] If MCData User(s) are pre-empted from an on-going MCData Service
communication as there is insufficient capacity to support their on-going
participation, the MCData Service shall provide the MCData User(s) with a
notification that they have been removed from the communication for reasons of
lack of capacity.
[R-6.2.3-005] The MCData Service shall have a configurable limit for the
maximum amount of data or time that a Participant transmits from a single
request to transmit.
NOTE 1: Infinite is a valid setting for the transmit data limit.
[R-6.2.3-006] The MCData Service shall enable an MCData Administrator to
configure the limits for a transmission that a Participant transmits from a
single request to transmit.
[R-6.2.3-007] The MCData Service may provide a notification of intent to
terminate a communication e.g. to give the user time to request an extension.
[R-6.2.3-008] The MCData Service may terminate a communication without
previously sending a notification.
[R-6.2.3-009] The MCData Service may include an indication of termination
reason (e.g. data volume limit, administrator action, time limit expiry) with
any notification of intent to terminate or actual termination.
[R-6.2.3-010] An MCData UE shall provide, to the MCData User, a notification
of intent to terminate including any reason given.
[R-6.2.3-010a] An MCData UE may provide, to the MCData User, a notification of
termination including any reason given.
[R-6.2.3-011] The MCData Service may include a request for more information
with any notification of intent to terminate communication.
NOTE 2: For example to allow the UE to indicate the remaining data volume to
send if known.
[R-6.2.3-012] An MCData UE shall respond to a request for more information.
[R-6.2.3-012a] The response to the request for more information may include an
indication of the amount of data still to be transmitted.
[R-6.2.3-013] The MCData Service shall terminate an MCData Service Group
Communication if any termination condition occurs.
## 6.3 MCData Services requirements specific to off-network use
### 6.3.1 Private Communication Off-Network
#### 6.3.1.1 Overview
Private Communications off-network allows two MCData Users to communicate
directly with each other without the use of the network. Private
Communications off-network is generally applicable to all of the MCData
subservices (SDS, file distribution capability, data streaming capability, IP
connectivity).
#### 6.3.1.2 Requirements
[R-6.3.1.2-001] The MCData service shall support Private Communications Off-
Network.
[R-6.3.1.2-002] The MCData service shall provide a mechanism for an MCData
User to cancel an MCData Private Communication prior to the Communication
setup.
[R-6.3.1.2-003] The MCData service shall provide a means by which an
authorized MCData User initiates an MCData Private Communication.
[R-6.3.1.2-004] The MCData service shall provide a means by which an MCData UE
initiates an MCData Private Communication to any MCData User for which the
MCData UE\'s current MCData User is authorized.
NOTE: For off-network use, only an MCData UE within communication range
(possibly via a ProSe UE-to-UE Relay) receives the transmission.
[R-6.3.1.2-005] The MCData service shall provide a mechanism for an MCData
User to reject an MCData Private Communication.
[R-6.3.1.2-006] The MCData service shall provide a means by which an MCData
User ends a Private Communication in which the MCData User is a Participant.
[R-6.3.1.2-007] The MCData service shall provide a mechanism for an MCData
Administrator to configure for a particular authorized MCData User, a set of
MCData Users under the same authority to which an MCData Private Communication
can be made.
[R-6.3.1.2-008] The MCData service shall provide a mechanism for an MCData
Administrator to configure the maximum duration for MCData Private
Communications for MCData Users within their authority.
### 6.3.2 MCData Transmission Control Off-Network
#### 6.3.2.1 Overview
MCData Transmission Control Off-Network provides a necessary capability for an
authorized user of the MCData service to request to transmit, receive an
indication of being allowed to transmit or not being allowed to transmit and
terminate a request to transmit when the MCData user no longer wants to
transmit. A transmit time limit is provided which allows an MCData
Administrator to configure the limits for any transmission related to a single
request to transmit. MCData Transmission Control Off-Network also provides an
override capability based on a priority hierarchy to override an active MCData
transmission of a transmitting Participant based on configuration. The MCData
Transsmission Control Off-Network capability does not apply to all of the
MCData subservices (SDS, file distribution capability, data streaming
capability, IP connectivity).
#### 6.3.2.2 General Aspects
[R-6.3.2.2-001] The MCData service when operating off-network shall determine
at a point in time which off-network Participant(s) are allowed to transmit to
other off-network Participants.
[R-6.3.2.2-002] An MCData Group shall have the flexibility to be configured to
allow simultaneous transmitting MCData Group Members.
[R-6.3.2.2-003] The MCData service shall provide a mechanism for the MCData
Service Administrator to configure the maximum number of simultaneous
communications received by an off-network MCData User in a single MCData
Group.
#### 6.3.2.3 Requesting Permission to Transmit
[R-6.3.2.3-001] An authorized Participant shall be able to request to transmit
to an MCData Group or an individual MCData User.
[R-6.3.2.3-002] The MCData service shall determine which Participant(s) are
permitted to transmit when there are simultaneous requests for permission to
transmit within the same group.
[R-6.3.2.3-003] Following an MCData request for permission to transmit on the
Selected MCData Group, any Affiliated MCData User that made and was granted
the request shall be given an indication of being allowed to transmit.
[R-6.3.2.3-004] Following an MCData request for permission to transmit on the
Selected MCData Group, any Affiliated MCData User that made and was not
granted the request shall be given an indication that permission to transmit
was not given at that time.
[R-6.3.2.3-005] Following an MCData Private Communication request for
permission to transmit, an MCData User that is allowed to transmit shall be
given an indication that the user is allowed to transmit to the targeted
MCData User(s).
[R-6.3.2.3-006] Following an MCData Private Communication request for
permission to transmit, an MCData User that is not allowed to transmit shall
be given an indication that the permission to transmit was queued or rejected.
[R-6.3.2.3-007] The MCData service when operating off-network shall provide a
mechanism for an MCData Participant to cancel its MCData request to transmit
at any stage, including before the request has been granted.
[R-6.3.2.3-008] The MCData service shall provide a mechanism for the MCData
Administrator to configure parameter(s) relating to the automatic termination
of an off-network MCData service request to transmit.
#### 6.3.2.4 Override
[R-6.3.2.4-001] An MCData UE shall be pre-provisioned by an MCData
Administrator and/or authorized user with the necessary information in order
that override may operate during off-network MCData communication.
[R-6.3.2.4-002] The MCData service shall provide a mechanism for MCData
Administrators to create a priority hierarchy for determining what
Participants, Participant types, and urgent transmission types, when operating
off the network, be granted a request to override an active off-network MCData
transmission.
[R-6.3.2.4-003] The priority hierarchy used for granting a request to override
an active MCData transmission shall contain at least four (4) levels.
[R-6.3.2.4-004] The MCData service shall provide a mechanism for Participants,
to override an active MCData transmission of a transmitting Participant based
on configuration.
[R-6.3.2.4-005] If an MCData transmission is overridden, the MCData Service
shall provide a means of notifying the overridden Participant(s) that the
transmission has been overridden.
[R-6.3.2.4-006] The MCData service shall provide a mechanism to enable an
MCData Administrator to configure which MCData Group transmission(s) a
Participant(s) receives, for cases where an MCData transmission can be
overridden.
[R-6.3.2.4-007] If the MCData Group has been configured to only allow the
overriding transmitting Participant to transmit, the MCData service shall
revoke the transmit permission of the overridden transmitting Participant.
#### 6.3.2.5 Terminating Permission to Transmit
[R-6.3.2.5-001] A transmitting Participant shall be able to indicate to the
off-network MCData service that the Participant no longer wants to transmit.
[R-6.3.2.5-002] The off-network MCData service shall provide an indication to
receiving Participants that the transmitting Participant has finished
transmitting.
#### 6.3.2.6 Transmit Time Limit
[R-6.3.2.6-001] The Off-Network MCData Service shall provide a mechanism for
an MCData UE to be pre-provisioned by an MCData Administrator and/or
authorized user with the necessary information in order that a transmit time
limit function may operate during off-network MCData communication.
[R-6.3.2.6-002] The Off-Network MCData Service shall enable an MCData
Administrator to configure the limits (e.g. elapsed time, quantity of data)
for any transmission related to a single request to transmit.
[R-6.3.2.6-003] The Off-Network MCData Service shall have configurable limits
(e.g. elapsed time, quantity of data), including indefinite, for any
transmission related to a single request to transmit (e.g. elapsed time,
quantity of data).
[R-6.3.2.6-004] The Off-Network MCData Service shall provide an indication to
the transmitting Participant a configurable amount before the transmit limit
is reached.
[R-6.3.2.6-005] The Off-Network MCData Service shall provide an indication to
the transmitting Participant that the Participant\'s transmit limit has been
reached.
[R-6.3.2.6-006] The Off-Network MCData Service shall remove the permission to
transmit from the transmitting Participant when the Participant\'s transmit
limit has been reached.
# 7 Interworking
## 7.1 Interworking with non LTE data systems
[R-7.1-001] Interworking between the MCData SDS and TETRA Short Data Service
[5] shall be supported.
Editor\'s Note: interworking with other non-LTE systems is FFS.
###### ##
#