# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Editor\'s note: Text to be provided.
# 1 Scope
**This Technical Report describes use cases, proposes assumptions and
potential requirements and analyzes the gap in order to enhance 3GPP system
for TV service support. The supported TV service includes** linear TV, Live,
Video on Demand, smart TV, and Over The Top (OTT) content.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
BC Broadcast
DVB Digital Video Broadcasting
DTT Digital Terrestrial Television
FHD Full High Definition
FTA Free To Air
FTV Free to View
HD High Definition
OTT Over The Top
PPP Pay per View
MNO Mobile Network Operator
MooD MBMS operation on Demand
MPD Media Presentation Description
QHD Quad High Definition
SD Standard Definition
UHD Ultra High Definition
VoD Video on Demand
# 4 Use Cases
## 4.1 Use Case 1: UHD content delivery
### 4.1.1 Description
Ultra-High Definition (UHD) content (3840 x 2160 resolutions) has been widely
supported by OTT providers and TV makers. The highest display resolution
supported by smart phone in the market is Quad HD (QHD, 2560 x 1440
resolutions). It is expected that display resolution of smart phone will keep
evolving and support UHD resolution in the future. It is also expected that 4K
TV can consume the UHD content from OTT providers via a UE.
UHD content delivery requires 8Mbps-20Mbps bandwidth in current deployed fixed
network(e.g. using H.265 @ 60fps).
UHD content delivery is expected to be supported by 3GPP network. The
recommended data rate for UHD content delivery is [8Mbps-20Mbps].
### 4.1.2 Pre-conditions
OTT provider X releases a new live UHD program; Tom's UE supports UHD
resolution. Alice's UE doesn't support UHD resolution; however, Alice's TV is
UHD capable.
### 4.1.3 Service Flows
A live UHD program is streaming by OTT provider X. Tom accesses the live UHD
program using UHD capable of UE. Alice accesses this live UHD program via her
UE, the live UHD program is presented on her TV. Many other users access this
live UHD program too. Per agreement between MNO (Mobile Network Operator) and
OTT provider X, 3GPP network delivers the content of live UHD program using
broadcast (BC) mode.
### 4.1.4 Post-conditions
Tom's UE receives the content of live UHD program, the UHD program is
presented on the UE.
Alice's UE receives the content of live UHD program , the UHD program is
presented on the TV.
### 4.1.5 Potential Requirements
The 3GPP network shall support UHD content delivery.
The 3GPP system shall support [8Mbps-20Mbps] over one broadcast channel.
The 3GPP system shall support [8Mbps-20Mbps] over unicast delivery to a UE.
## 4.2 Use Case 2: Concurrent UHD content delivery
### 4.2.1 Description
Considering each OTT provider provides several live UHD 4K TV programs
concurrently, there are many OTT providers offering live UHD 4K TV programs at
the same time. User accesses to each live UHD 4K TV program per user's
preference/interest. Within a geographic region, several concurrent live UHD
4K TV programs are consumed by different user groups in parallel. To improve
user experience and use network capacity efficiently, it is expected to
deliver concurrent live UHD 4K TV programs using broadcast delivery method as
much as possible by 3GPP network.
In the broadcast industry, the number of concurrent broadcast channel in the
air is around 10 to 24 with HD (High Definition,720p) or SD (Standard
Definition,480i or 576i) resolution. The higher number of concurrent channel
is also foreseen. The exact concurrent channel number is subject to content
resolution, network capacity and user's watching behaviour.
### 4.2.2 Pre-conditions
OTT provider X offers 8 live UHD programs; OTT provider Y offers 15 live UHD
programs.
Each UHD program is encoded at 12Mbps.
### 4.2.3 Service Flows
In a residence community at the night time, 5 live UHD programs of OTT
provider X and 7 live UHD programs of OTT provider Y are viewed by many user
at the same time. Per agreement between MNO and OTT provider, also taking into
available network broadcast capacity consideration, 3GPP network decides to
deliver 10 live UHD program using broadcast mode simultaneously. The rest of 2
live UHD programs are delivered with unicast mode.
### 4.2.4 Post-conditions
The broadcasted live UHD program are received by the UE and presented to the
user.
The non-broadcasted live UHD program are received by the UE and presented to
the user.
### 4.2.5 Potential Requirements
The 3GPP network shall be able to support at least [10] high quality video
channels of 12Mbps each simultaneously via broadcast.
## 4.3 Use Case 3: Broadcast Capacity on-demand update per traffic demand
### 4.3.1 Description
In a residential community at Saturday night time, many users access OTT live
streaming programs delivered over broadcast channel. Both unicast traffic and
broadcast traffic share the same carrier. The broadcast capacity allocated by
the MNO A is almost fully consumed. A breaking event happens, and live video
content of breaking news from OTT provider X's server is accessed by many
users via unicast. The surging unicast traffic causes network congestion. Thus
the MNO decides to put the FHD(1080p) breaking news onto broadcast rather than
unicast. There are two cases of handling that.
Case 1: Considering the currently available broadcast capacity can't
accommodate this new capacity demand, and the MNO decides to avoid adding a
new carrier or does not have a spare carrier, he decides to convert part of
existing unicast capacity into broadcast capacity.
Case 2: To satisfy the capacity demand the MNO decides to dedicate a new
carrier for LTE based TV traffic. After the new carrier is in operation, the
live video content is broadcasted over the new carrier. The existing broadcast
traffic can also be moved to this newly added carrier. The broadcast capacity
of the existing carrier can be converted back to unicast capacity.
### 4.3.2 Pre-conditions
Both MNO A use one carrier (C1) for LTE based TV service i.e. for both,
unicast and broadcast traffic and, 10 TV channels are transmitted by MNO A on
that carrier.
In case 1 MNO A doesn't have spare carrier, in case 2 MNO A has a spare
carrier.
An event happens and the breaking news is provided by the OTT provider. It is
accessed by many users of MNO A via unicast and the carrier capacity is about
to fully occupied.
### 4.3.3 Service Flows
Due to the breaking news event the currently available capacity on carrier C1
cannot accommodate the demand anymore.
In case 1, as there is no spare carrier available, MNO A decides to convert
part of existing unicast capacity into broadcast capacity.
In case 2the MNO A decides to use its spare carrier C2 dedicate it to LTE
based TV service, after the new carrier is in operation, the live video
content causing the surge is broadcast on carrier C2. Subsequently, existing
broadcast traffic on carrier C1 may be moved to carrier C2, to form a
broadcast only carrier. The broadcast capacity of existing carrier C1 may be
converted back to unicast capacity.
When the breaking event ends, in case 1 MNO A may change the broadcast
capacity back to unicast if need arises. In case 2 MNO A may decide to free up
carrier C2 again by moving traffic to carrier C1, provided capacity on carrier
C1 is sufficient again.
### 4.3.4 Post-conditions
The breaking news event is delivered in a resource efficient way in broadcast
mode.
The existing 10 channels of MNO A and the new breaking news channel are
broadcast over new carrier without the users noticing interruption.
### 4.3.5 Potential Requirements
The 3GPP network shall be able to support using one carrier for both unicast
and broadcast distribution of TV programmes.
The 3GPP network shall support flexible change between broadcast and unicast
per traffic demand over the same carrier.
The 3GPP network shall be able to support using a full carrier for broadcast.
If allowed by the operator and a spare carrier is available, the 3GPP network
shall be able to make use of spare carriers or free up carriers if not
required anymore.
## 4.4 Use Case 4: Capacity on-demand for BC mode delivery of TV content
### 4.4.1 Description
MNO can support both own managed TV service and OTT provider's TV service over
same 3GPP network, both MNO/OTT provider and end user expects the TV content
are delivered with high resolution quality, minimum jitter, low latency and
etc. The real-time interaction between TV service provider (MNO or OTT
provider) and end-user using companion device is very popular in current TV
industry. This interaction procedure is used to collect user's viewing and
interaction with Ads presented in the TV content and allow end-user sharing
view with social media tools, etc.
Figure 4.4-1: Capacity On Demand for TV content delivery
To better support TV service for both MNO and OTT provider, MNO can provide
dedicated network capacity for contracted OTT provider. MNO can also provide
dedicated network capacity for own managed TV service. As shown in Figure
4.4-1, MNO provides dedicated broadcast network capacity BC-1 for OTT provider
X. Dedicated broadcast capacity BC-2 is assigned to MNO's own managed TV
service. The rest of broadcast (BC-3) capacity is shared by other
applications. All unicast mode traffic associated with TV programs is carried
over UC-1 which serving other non-TV traffic too.
### 4.4.2 Pre-conditions
MNO provides OTT provider X with dedicated broadcast capacity BC-1 per OTT
provider X's request.
Dedicated broadcast capacity BC-2 is assigned to MNO's own managed TV service.
Unicast traffic associated with both OTT provider X's and MNO's own TV
programs is carried over UC-1.
### 4.4.3 Service Flows
OTT provider X TV programs are very popular and more end users are attracted.
The contracted dedicated broadcast capacity BC-1 is going to run out. OTT
provider X plans to release a new live TV program with FHD resolution. OTT
provider X requests MNO to increase BC-1 capacity. The MNO grants OTT provider
X's request, considering the UC-1 and additional bandwidth required by new
live TV program, MNO decides to convert part of UC-1 capacity into broadcast
capacity to increase BC-1 capacity. BC-1 capacity is increased along with UC-1
capacity decrease.
MNO's own TV programs are very popular and attract more end users. The
contracted dedicated broadcast capacity BC-2 is going to run out. MNO plans to
add 2 new live TV programs with HD resolution. BC-2 capacity is increased per
MON's decision.
OTT provider X keeps monitoring the viewer's behaviour, TV program consumption
information and advertisement consumption information, etc. OTT provider X
found that top 3 TV programs are major contributors of the business. Current
dedicated broadcast capacity BC-1 is not fully cost-efficiently used. OTT
provider X requests MNO to decrease BC-1 capacity. The MNO grants OTT provider
X's request. MNO decrease BC-1 capacity.
### 4.4.4 Post-conditions
BC-1 capacity is increased and new live TV program is delivered to the
audiences.
MNO increases BC-2 capacity, MNO's 2 new added live TV programs are delivered
with broadcast mode to the end-users.
The BC-1 is decreased to accommodate only 3 TV programs of OTT from provider
X. The rest of TV programs are consumed by the user via unicast.
All users' experience is not obvious impacted during network UC/BC capacity
adjustment.
### 4.4.5 Potential Requirements
The 3GPP system shall be able to support an MNO offering on-demand broadcast
availability to MNO/OTT provider's TV service.
The 3GPP network shall be able to support on-demand network broadcast capacity
assignment for MNO/OTT provider's TV service.
The 3GPP network shall be able to convert network unicast capacity to network
broadcast capacity and vice versa.
The 3GPP network shall be able to support network broadcast capacity
assignment considering following criteria:
\- OTT provider request (including TV program information)
\- available network unicast/broadcast capacity of 3GPP network
## 4.5 Use Case 5: eMBMS Sharing
### 4.5.1 Description
MNOs A & B have deployed eMBMS enabled LTE networks. They want to establish
offer a cross MNO partnership to create a wide TV distribution network capable
of reaching all TV-capable devices.
### 4.5.2 Pre-conditions
MNOs A and B have an eMBMS-enabled RAN.
Subscribers of MNOs A & B have eMBMS enabled handsets.
### 4.5.3 Service Flows
MNOs A & B partner with a premium TV content provider to provide a wide TV
distribution network serving all TV-capable devices within the coverage of the
defined coverage area.
The users subscribe to the TV service via the MNOs or via the content
provider.
The MNOs provide an eMBMS service across all provisioned RAN infrastructure.
Users are provided eMBMS metadata to tune into the service once subscribed.
The MNOs and content provider have sufficient back-end O&M facilities to
ensure fair and consistent charging (e.g. monitoring, revenue sharing,
resource allocation, charging reconciliation, etc.)
### 4.5.4 Post-conditions
Subscribers of MNO A & B are provided a wide & deep TV distribution network
carrying premium content.
### 4.5.5 Potential Requirements
A participating eMBMS-enabled RAN shall be capable of distributing free-to-air
content in conjunction with other participating eMBMS-enabled RANs.
A participating eMBMS-enabled RAN shall be capable of distributing subscribed
content in conjunction with other participating eMBMS-enabled RANs.
Control of each RAN of the shared eMBMS network shall be retained by the RAN
provider
Each RAN provider shall report events supporting the accounting of network
resource usage separately for each Participating MNO/Partner. This includes:
\- Start of service in the shared eMBMS network for a UE of the Participating
MNO
\- End of service in the shared eMBMS network for a UE of the Participating
MNO
## 4.6 Use Case 6: Flexible capacity allocation
### 4.6.1 Description
An MNO operates an LTE based TV service.
To support this, the MNO dedicates a certain percentage of his user plane
radio resources to the LTE based TV service, ranging from 0 to 100%.
The TV programs can be distributed by unicast, i.e. a 1-to-1 connection to
each individual UE or by broadcast i.e. a 1-to-many connection to a group of
UEs.
Based on certain criteria(s), for example an MNO defined number of viewers the
3GPP network distributes the TV program per unicast when criteria(s) are met
while distributing the TV program on broadcast while not met.
The MNO can set limits how much of this dedicated resource to LTE based TV
service is to be used for broadcast and how much is to be used for unicast.
The MNO can reserve a certain capacity that is retained for broadcast and
cannot be used for unicast and vice versa. The MNO may pre-define these limits
on a daily basis at a resolution of one minute, e.g. to allocate broadcast
resources for the daily prime-time news show.
Within the limits given above, the MNO can task the 3GPP network to flexibly
adapt the amount of resources allocated to unicast and broadcast whenever it
is required. For example, when running out of broadcast capacity the 3GPP can
convert unicast resources to broadcast resources and vice versa.
### 4.6.2 Pre-conditions
An MNO dedicates radio resources to LTE delivered TV service.
### 4.6.3 Service Flows
The MNO dedicates a certain percentage of his user plane radio resources to
the LTE based TV service, ranging from 0 to 100%.
Based on certain criteria(s), for example an MNO defined threshold of number
of viewers of a TV program the 3GPP network automatically distributes the TV
program per unicast when the number of viewers are below the threshold while
distributing the TV program on broadcast when above.
This automatic mechanism is governed by the following limits.
Within the resource allocated to LTE based TV the MNO can limit how much is to
be used for broadcast and how much is to be used for unicast. By specifying a
maximum percentage for broadcast the MNO implicitly reserves a certain
capacity that is always allocated for broadcast and cannot be used for
unicast. Similarly the MNO can set a certain capacity that always will be
allocated for unicast.\ For example the MNO can set the maximum percentage to
be used for unicast to 80% always leaving at least 20% for broadcast. At the
same time he can set the maximum percentage to be used for broadcast to 90%
always leaving 10% capacity for unicast. The MNO can pre-define the maximum
limits on a 24 hours basis at a one minute resolution.
Within the limits given above, the 3GPP network will automatically and
flexibly adapt the amount of resources allocated to unicast and broadcast
whenever it is required. For example, when running out of broadcast capacity
the 3GPP network can convert unicast resources to broadcast resources and vice
versa. .
### 4.6.4 Post-conditions
LTE based TV service is always provided in the most resource efficient way as
desired by the MNO.
### 4.6.5 Potential Requirements
The 3GPP network shall allow the MNO to specify the amount of user plane radio
resources dedicated to LTE based TV service in a certain area.
Within the radio resources dedicated to LTE based TV service in a certain area
the 3GPP network shall allow the MNO to pre-define the maximum percentage to
be used for unicast.
The 3GPP network shall allow the MNO to pre-define this maximum percentage at
a time-resolution of [one] minute over a period of [24] hours. The 3GPP
network shall allow the MNO to change this pre-defined percentage at any time.
Within the radio resources dedicated to LTE based TV service in a certain area
the 3GPP network shall allow the MNO to pre-define the maximum percentage to
be used for broadcast.
The 3GPP network shall allow the MNO to pre-define this maximum percentage at
a time-resolution of [one] minute over a period of [24] hours. The 3GPP
network shall allow the MNO to change this pre-defined percentage at any time.
The 3GPP network shall allow the MNO to specify certain criteria, based on
which the 3GPP network will automatically convert network unicast capacity to
network broadcast capacity and vice versa in a certain area within the limits
given.
## 4.7 Use Case 7: Standalone eMBMS Network
### 4.7.1 Description
A MNO operates a linear TV service over an LTE network using either shared or
dedicated network infrastructure and spectrum resources in eMBMS mode. The LTE
network is operated as a standalone eMBMS network, i.e. without unicast. This
network implements only a subset of LTE functionalities and entities which are
required to offer such a service.
The TV service provided across such a network consists of a set of linear TV
programmes and associated programme information. The TV service can contain
free-to-air programmes and subscription based programmes. The free-to-air
programmes are receivable by all receivers irrespective of whether the users
are subscribers of the MNO, roaming subscribers of other MNOs or whether the
receivers are operating in receive-only mode without any subscription with any
MNO. Access to subscription based linear TV programmes is subject to
corresponding roaming agreements.
### 4.7.2 Pre-conditions
A MNO operates a standalone eMBMS network and provides a TV service. SIM-less
free-to-air provision of TV services needs to be enabled as well as a receive-
only mode for mobile terminals. Access to the TV service for subscribers from
other MNO networks needs to be enabled.
### 4.7.3 Service Flows
The MNO provides TV services such as a set of linear TV programmes and
associated programme information across the coverage area of the standalone
eMBMS network. Mobile terminals which are enabled to receive a TV service from
an eMBMS network can access the content.
### 4.7.4 Post-conditions
Viewers could enjoy unrestricted access to linear TV programmes on mobile
terminals from a standalone eMBMS network in addition to TV services that
might be provided via other LTE networks.
### 4.7.5 Potential Requirements
The 3GPP system shall allow to implement a standalone eMBMS network(i.e. a
network which offers eMBMS service but no unicast service) based on a set of
EPS functionalities and entities which are required to offer a linear TV
service.
## 4.8 Use Case 8: Access to and Charging of TV programs and Anonymity of
Reception
### 4.8.1 Description
The MNO can make LTE based TV programs available under the following
accessibility and charging regime:
  1. The MNO may offer programs free to air (FTA) which implies any > receiver can receive the program at no associated cost.\ > The programs are receivable by all receivers irrespective of > whether they are subscribers of the MNO, roaming subscribers of > other MNOs or are device or UEs that use receive mode not > requiring any subscription.\ > FTA supports anonymity of reception, i.e. it is not possible to > find out which program was received by the UE and viewed by the > subscriber. (This is to mimic the privacy implicit to receiving > FTA DVB TV programs)
  2. The MNO may offer programs free to view (FTV) which implies only > subscribers entitled to view the program can receive the program > at no associated cost. The receivers of the programs are > subscribers of the MNO or are roaming subscribers of other MNOs.
  3. The MNO may offer programs to subscribers entitled to receive the > program and charges on a per program viewed basis e.g. all content > on that program can viewed (Pay per program (PPP). The receivers > of the programs are subscribers of the MNO or are roaming > subscribers of other MNOs.
  4. The MNO may offer programs as pay TV to subscribers entitled to > receive the program and charges on a per view basis e.g. per movie > (Pay per view (PPV)). The receivers of the programs are > subscribers of the MNO or are roaming subscribers of other MNOs.
### 4.8.2 Pre-conditions
A MNO runs a LTE Based TV service.
### 4.8.3 Service Flows
Depending on the accessibility and charging regime applied by the MNO a
subscriber is allowed to receive a certain LTE based TV program and the 3GPP
network collects the relevant charging information.
### 4.8.4 Post-conditions
Reception of LTE based TV programs is allowed for certain subscribers and
charging data is collected. Receiver can receive the LTE based TV programs as
requested by the operator either under FTA, FTV, PPP or PPV accessibility and
charging regime.
### 4.8.5 Potential Requirements
Subject to regulatory requirements the MNO may decide to provide LTE based TV
FTA programs receivable by all UE irrespective of whether they are subscribed
to the MNO, a roaming UEs of other MNOs, in limited service state, or are
using the receive only mode without subscription to any MNO.
Note: limited service state is defined in clause 3.5 of 3GPP TS 23.122.
The 3GPP network shall not collect charging data on individual subscribers for
FTA.
Subject to national regulation the 3GPP network shall provide the ability to
maintain the anonymity of the receiving user if required by the regulator or
MNO.
The 3GPP network shall provide mechanisms to restrict the reception of some or
all LTE based TV programs to groups of subscribers (e.g. based on the
receivers of the programs being subscribers of the MNO, roaming subscribers of
other MNOs, or not subscribed to any MNO).
The 3GPP network shall provide mechanisms to collect charging data on a per
subscriber basis indicating at least, but not restricted to, the program
viewed, time and duration. The receivers of the programs are subscribers of
the MNO or are roaming subscribers of other MNOs.
## 4.9 Use Case 9: eMBMS Enhancements to support wide area TV subscribers
### 4.9.1 Description
Operator A has partnered with a broadcaster to offer second-screen services to
accompany the broadcaster's existing Digital Terrestrial Television (DTT)
offering. The broadcaster has stipulated that the second screen offering must
be made available to at least 90% of current DTT subscribers.
### 4.9.2 Pre-conditions
Operator A has an eMBMS-enabled RAN.
Subscribers of Operator A have eMBMS enabled UEs.
### 4.9.3 Service Flows
An operator partners with a broadcaster to deliver second screen applications.
The operator configures its network to deliver content to the subscribers of
the broadcast service.
The broadcaster provides second screen content to the operator. The operator
distributes this content via the eMBMS network and interested subscribers can
tune in from their mobile devices.
### 4.9.4 Post-conditions
A very large proportion of the DTT subscribers are able to access the second
screen content.
### 4.9.5 Potential Requirements
The eMBMS network shall be able to support designated coverage area roughly
equal to that of DTT coverage.
## 4.10 Use Case 10: Coverage for TV services
### 4.10.1 Description
An MNO provides a TV service over an LTE network. A TV service consists of one
or more TV programmes and associated programme information. The MNO wants to
make available some or all of the TV programmes of the TV service across a
large area which may reach the size of an entire country. The quality of
experience of the TV service offered on an LTE network has to be ensured
throughout the entire coverage area. Each user shall be able to enjoy a given
pre-defined quality of experience irrespective of the size of the concurrent
audience of the TV service.
### 4.10.2 Pre-conditions
A MNO runs a TV service over an LTE network. Some of the TV programs have to
be available in a large area, e.g. country wide. The quality of experience of
the TV service is pre-defined to be provided to all users within the coverage
area regardless of the size of the concurrent audience.
### 4.10.3 Service Flows
The MNO decides to make available some or all programs in a large area
ensuring a given quality of experience for all users.
### 4.10.4 Post-conditions
TV programmes selected by the MNO are available in large areas. Users are able
to receive the TV programmes with a predefined quality of experience
throughout the entire coverage area and irrespective of the size of the
concurrent audience.
### 4.10.5 Potential Requirements
The 3GPP network shall allow the MNO to provide a TV service in a resource
efficient manner over a large area possibly consisting of urban and rural
parts, up to the size of a country.
The quality of experience of the TV service shall be independent from the size
of the concurrent audience.
## 4.11 Use Case 11: Coverage on-demand for BC mode delivery of TV content
### 4.11.1 Description
MNO supports both own managed TV service and OTT provider's TV service over
same 3GPP network, the MNO can configure the coverage the broadcast network in
an on-demand manner based on the request from the OTT provider or information
available to the MNO (e.g., location information of UE, the number of users).
### 4.11.2 Pre-conditions
MNO provides OTT provider X with dedicated broadcast capacity BC-1 per OTT
provider X's request in region A.
Dedicated broadcast capacity BC-2 is assigned to MNO's own managed TV service
in region B.
### 4.11.3 Service Flows
#### 4.11.3.1 Coverage on demand for OTT program
OTT provider X TV programs are very popular and more end users are attracted.
Those new added users are outside of region A. OTT providers request the MNO
to enlarge the broadcast coverage for those new users. The MNO grants this
request, based on the location information of those new users and available
broadcast capacity in the potential broadcast area, the MNO re-configures the
broadcast network to accommodate those new users.
After a while, the OTT provider finds the number of viewer's decrease in
certain area within region A, the OTT providers requests MNO to decrease the
footprint of broadcast network. The MNO grants this request and adjust the
broadcast coverage in those areas.
#### 4.11.3.2 Coverage on demand for MNO owned TV program
MNO's own TV programs are very popular and attract more end users. Those new
added users are outside of region B. The MNO notices this change and decides
to expand the coverage of broadcast network to accommodate those new users.
After a while, the MNO provider finds the number of viewer's decrease in
certain area within region B. Per location information of viewer, MNO
decreases the footprint of broadcast network.
### 4.11.4 Post-conditions
The new added users, outside of region A, of OTT providers X can view the
program with broadcast channel when the coverage of broadcast network
enlarges. When the coverage of broadcast network shrinks, the OTT provider's
users whom are outside of broadcast network coverage will access the program
over unicast channel.
MNO dynamic changes the coverage of broadcast network based on the OTT
provider's request or based on location information of users, the number of
users over broadcast channel, etc.
### 4.11.5 Potential Requirements
The 3GPP network shall be able to support on-demand network broadcast coverage
management for MNO or OTT provider's TV service.
The 3GPP network shall be able to support network broadcast coverage
management considering following criteria:
\- OTT provider request (including the potential coverage information of TV
program information)
\- available network unicast/broadcast capacity of 3GPP network
\- number of users under broadcast network coverage
\- The location information of UE
## 4.12 Use Case 12: Concurrent use of LTE based TV service and other 3GPP
service and support of different resolution TV programs
### 4.12.1 Description
A MNO operates an LTE based TV service. Receivers of the LTE based TV service
can be subscribers of the MNO or roaming subscribers of other MNOs. While
receiving LTE based TV service these UEs shall be able to make use of other
3GPP provided services they might be subscribed to, such as voice, SMS or
data.
### 4.12.2 Pre-conditions
A MNO dedicates radio resources to LTE based TV service.
### 4.12.3 Service Flows
LTE based TV services are provided by the MNO. Subscribers to the MNO or a
roaming partner can make use of their other subscribed to 3GPP services while
receiving LTE based TV service.
The TV programs provided via the LTE based TV service may be combinations of
SD, FHD and UHD resolution.
### 4.12.4 Post-conditions
Receivers are happily enjoying exciting TV programs provided by the LTE based
TV service.
### 4.12.5 Potential Requirements
While receiving TV programs via the LTE based TV service, subscribers of the
MNO and roaming subscribers shall be able to make use of their other
subscribed to services such as voice, data or SMS.
The 3GPP network shall support combinations of SD, FHD and UHD resolution
programs on LTE based TV service.
## 4.13 Use Case 13: Service Layer Function and Codec Support
### 4.13.1 Description
A TV Content Provider partners with an MNO to distribute a subset of the
channels offered on its DTT service.
Rather than re-encode all existing encoded content for mobile distribution as
per the profiles set out in the pre-Release 14 MBMS service layer, the
broadcaster partners with an MNO that enables a formats, codecs and service
layer functions suitable and necessary for the rebroadcast of existing content
which can comply with the regulatory requirements of the region.
### 4.13.2 Pre-conditions
Subscribers of MNO B have eMBMS enabled handsets.
### 4.13.3 Service Flows
A TV content Provider makes a business agreement with an MNO to use the MNO's
eMBMS network to carry TV content traffic with certain parameters (time of
day, bandwidth, geographic locations, etc.).
Within those parameters, the TV Content Provider provides content to the MNO's
eMBMS network and this content is provided in a format supported by the
Release 14 eMBMS service layer, including functions covered by regulatory
requirements, interactivity functions, security functions, and accessibility
functions supported by the Release 14 eMBMS service layer.
### 4.13.4 Post-conditions
Subscribers to the service of the TV Content Provider obtain their TV service
provided by the eMBMS network of the MNO.
### 4.13.5 Potential Requirements
The eMBMS service layer should support audio and video formats typically
supported by TV Content Providers for HD TV services and UHD TV services.
The eMBMS service layer should support codecs typically supported by TV
Content Providers for HD TV services and UHD TV services.
The eMBMS service layer should support accessibility functions typically
supported by TV Content Providers (e.g. subtitling, closed captioning, audio
descriptions, anonymous reception, reporting to support ratings, reporting
enforcement, etc.).
The eMBMS service layer should support regulatory mandates typically supported
by TV Content Providers (blackouts, emergency alerts, etc.).
The eMBMS service layer should support interactivity functions typically
supported by TV Content Providers (interactive services, second screen,
personalization, etc.).
The eMBMS service layer should support ad insertion use cases typically
supported by TV Content Providers (targeted ad insertion, ad replacement,
etc.),
The eMBMS service layer should support encryption, security and conditional
access functions typically supported by TV Content Providers.
The eMBMS service layer should support efficient concurrent delivery of
multiple separate services (service signalling, statistical multiplexing,
etc.).
The eMBMS service layer should support random access and channel change times
comparable to existing HD TV services.
The eMBMS service layer should support service delivery over broadcast only,
unicast only and combinations of the two.
The eMBMS service layer should support delivery of real-time and non-real-time
content.
The eMBMS service layer should enable extensibility and forward-compatibility
to new requirements, formats, codecs and other functions to the extent
possible.
## 4.14 Use Case 14: Openness for streaming content delivery
### 4.14.1 Description
This use case describes the optimization for streaming content delivery. This
case proposes that the network allow OTT TV application to schedule their
background traffic transfers via providing one or more time windows of
expected content delivery.
### 4.14.2 Pre-conditions
The 3^rd^ OTT party and the MNO have an agreement according to which the MNO
will provide the 3^rd^ OTT party the network policy information for streaming
content delivery in the geographical area specified by the 3^rd^ party
application provider and the 3^rd^ OTT party will take this information into
account to schedule information transfer in a way that is beneficial to the
MNO.
### 4.14.3 Service Flows
The 3^rd^ OTT party expects to initiate a broadcasting service to its mobile
users in a geographical area, e.g. like a popular linear streaming TV content
in a geographic area.
The 3^rd^ OTT party indicates to MNO that there is streaming content to be
sent within a given time window in a geographical area to the UEs that are
served by the 3^rd^ party and requests information to help it to decide when
it can be transferred. The 3^rd^ party application provider also indicates
information needed to enable the MNO to evaluate the impact of this transfer
on the network: e.g. the expected broadcast data rate of the streaming content
in this geographic area, media content format information to be used for
streaming content delivery, indication whether the streaming content can be
accessed when the mobile users moves out/in of broadcast coverage, indication
whether the streaming content can be cached in the MNO network to improve QoE.
As many 3^rd^ OTT parties may request a broadcast streaming content delivery,
MNO arbitrates these requests and schedules these transfers considering
available broadcast capacity. The **MNO is using its network information and
media content format information** to provide the 3^rd^ OTT parties the
guaranteed broadcast data rate for its set of UEs for streaming content
delivery in the geographical area specified by the 3^rd^ OTT party and the
possible time of the transfer.
If 3^rd^ OTT party indicates the cached streaming content can be accessed when
the mobile users moves out/in of broadcast coverage, the MNO network selects
the appreciate procedures (broadcast only, broadcast/unicast fall-back
support, or MBMS operation on Demand (MooD)) to deliver the streaming content
when the UE moves in/out of broadcast coverage with service continuity
support.
If 3^rd^ OTT party indicates the streaming content can be cached in the MNO
network, the MNO network doesn't need to retrieve the content from the 3^rd^
party if the linear streaming content is provided as a Video on Demand (VoD)
service when the live time is over.
Figure 4.14-1:MNO's streaming content delivery capability open to 3^rd^ party
### 4.14.4 Post-conditions
The 3^rd^ OTT party uses application information to select the appreciate
delivery approach for streaming content.
The MNO delivers the streaming content with high resolution to improve QoE, a
lower charging rate may be offered for streaming content broadcast delivery.
If the streaming content is cached in the MNO network, the QoE is improved and
load of OTT provider is mitigated.
### 4.14.5 Potential Requirements
Subject to MNO and 3^rd^ OTT party agreement, to enable the MNO to evaluate
the impact on distribution of data transfer in the network, the 3^rd^ OTT
party shall be able to indicate to the MNO the desired media format
information: the volume of the data traffic expected to be broadcast in this
geographic area, indication whether the streaming content can be accessed when
the mobile users moves out/in of broadcast coverage area, and indication
whether the streaming content can be cached in the MNO network.
The MNO shall be able to inform the result (e.g., selected media format
information, mode of content delivery (broadcast only, broadcast/unicast fall-
back support, MooD), QoE of content delivery, cached content indication) of
delivery to 3^rd^ party.
## 4.15 Use Case 15: Efficient delivery of OTT content by MNO network
### 4.15.1 Description
This use case describes the MNO network deliver the OTT content in an
efficient manner per OTT content provider request.
### 4.15.2 Pre-conditions
The OTT Smart TV program includes video/audio content, web content, social
media content and personalized advertisement content. Many users access the
same TV program at the same time using smart phone and/or tablet.
The timing relationship of video/audio content, personalized advertisements,
web content and social media are maintained by the OTT provider. For example,
personalized advertisement is available to be accessed after certain scene
presentation starts. Social media is only available during the live
video/audio content delivery phase. Web content are accessible anytime.
User-A has 2 devices, tablet (UE-0) is used for video/audio content
representation. Companion device (UE-1) is used for social media interaction,
personalized advertisement viewing, and/or web content access.
User-B and user-C watches video using UE.
User-B, user-C and user E join chat room regarding 'program discussion'.
User-E accesses web content using UE-5.
User-A, B, C, D and E locates in the same region.
The OTT content is by default accessed over unicast bearer.
The interaction between OTT smart TV content provider and UEs is depicted in
figure 4.15-1.
Figure 4.15-1: Interaction between UEs and OTT TV program
### 4.15.3 Service Flows
OTT Smart TV content provider requests MNO to provide content delivery service
for the TV program including audio/video, personalized advertisements, Web and
social media content.
The OTT content providers indicates the end user's information, media content
information, timing relationship information among video/audio content,
personalized advertisements, web content and social media, and association
information among end-user, device information and media content information
to the MNO network.
One example of the association information is provided below:
\- User-A, UE-0: audio/video MPD, UE1: personalized advertisement URL, Web URL
and social group ID.
\- User-B, UE-2: audio/video MPD, social group ID.
\- User-C, UE-3: audio/video MPD.
\- User-D, UE-4: social group ID.
\- User-E, UE-5: social group ID, Web content URL.
Based on association information, MNO decides to form 2 broadcast groups
qualifying broadcast delivery condition (e.g., number of UE accessing the same
content, location information, content information, etc.). Group-A is formed
for audio/video content delivery. UE-0, UE-2 and UE-3 receive the audio/video
content from Group-A. Group-B is formed for social media content delivery.
UE-1, UE-2 and UE-5 receive the social media content from Group-B.
Web content and personalized advertisement content is still carried over
unicast bearer.
User-A sends a comment of current scene of program to the chat room. The
comment is delivered via UE-1 to the chat room server of OTT provider. The
comment is forwarded by the server to the MNO network. The MNO network
delivers the comment to all chat room recipients.
### 4.15.4 Post-conditions
User-A views the audio/video content over broadcast bearer via UE-0, interacts
with the personalized advertisement, access Web content and sends IM message
over unicast bearer via UE-1, receive social chat room content over broadcast
bearer via UE-1.
User-B views the audio/video content and social media content over broadcast
bearer via UE-2. The comment of certain scene sent by user-A is presented to
the user-B. The timing difference between the timing of scene corresponding to
comment is sent by UE-1 and the timing of scene corresponding to comment is
presented by UE-2 is expected in a small range, thus the experience of all
participants involved in the chat room is not impacted regardless the
transportation method.
User-C views the audio/video content over broadcast bearer via UE-3.
User-D views the timed social media content over broadcast bearer via UE-4.
User-E views the timed social media content over broadcast bearer via UE-5,
access web content over unicast bearer.
The timing relationship of video/audio content, personalized advertisement,
web content and social media presented to user-A/B/C/D are maintained
regardless the transportation method.
### 4.15.5 Potential Requirements
Subject to MNO and 3^rd^ party agreement, the OTT TV provider shall be able to
indicate to the MNO association information among users i.e. user information,
expected media content information, device information and group information
of TV program.
The 3GPP network shall be able to deliver media content to a dynamically
formed broadcast group in an efficient manner.
Subject to MNO and 3^rd^ party agreement, the OTT TV provider shall be able to
indicate to the MNO the timing relationship information of different media
content.
The 3GPP system shall be capable of ensuring the timing sequence of different
media content received by different UEs belonging to the same user, via
different transport path, aligning with the timing sequence of TV program of
the OTT provider.
## 4.16 Use Case 16: Decoupled eMBMS content, service, and transport
### 4.16.1 Description
A content provider partners with a MNO to distribute as subset of its video/TV
services offered by the content provider.
Rather than re-encode all existing encoded content for 3GPP-based distribution
as per the profiles set out in the MBMS service layer, and transpose the
service initialization metadata to the format provided by the MBMS service
layer, the content provider requests to be able to access only the MBMS
transport.
As a result, the MNO provides the facility for the content provider to feed
metadata and streamed content into the MNO core network for transport to a
population maintained by the content provider.
### 4.16.2 Pre-conditions
Subscribers of MNO B have eMBMS enabled UEs.
### 4.16.3 Service Flows
A TV Content Provider establishes a business agreement with an MNO to use the
MNOs eMBMS transport network to carry content traffic with certain parameters
(time of day, bandwidth, geographic locations, etc.).
Within those parameters, the TV Content Provider is able to insert metadata
and content into the MNOs eMBMS distribution network directly. This content
and metadata is not formatted according to the eMBMS service layer format, and
is not encoded accorded to the formats enforced by the eMBMS service layer.
Subscribers to the TV Content Providers service are notified by some mechanism
(e.g. over-the-air electronic service guide) that content is being made
available and sufficient metadata is made available by the TV Content Provider
to enable the receiving UEs to tune into the service.
Subscribers to the content service have sufficient UE capabilities to support
the service (e.g. codecs, subtitle support, DRM, error correction, reporting
mechanisms, etc.)
### 4.16.4 Post-conditions
Subscribers to the service of TV Content Provider obtain their service
provided by the eMBMS transport network of the MNO.
### 4.16.5 Potential Requirements
An MNO should be able to make available the transport aspects of an eMBMS
network to a third party content provider.
An eMBMS transport layer should be able to transport TV service streams
formatted not compliant to 3GPP standards.
A UE should be able to access an eMBMS transport session with the support of
only transport metadata.
Note: service layer metadata describing TV service is outside the scope of
3GPP for non 3GPP transports.
An eMBMS system should be able to be initiated by a UE with sufficient
metadata provided by a mechanism other than User Service Description for non
3GPP transport services.
## 4.17 Use Case 17: Simultaneous use of any LTE services from one cell and TV
service from another cell
### 4.17.1 Description
An MNO might find that eMBMS support in only a subset of the cells within a
geographical area get sufficient coverage for its TV service. If the remaining
cells, e.g. small cells, operate on the same carrier frequency as the ones
used for the TV service, they could be muted on the MBSFN sub-frames of the TV
service to save power. Otherwise if the small cells operate on a different
carrier frequency the MNO is not required to add equipment for the carrier
frequency on which the TV service is transmitted in the other cells, thereby
saving costs.
If the UE is involved in multiple services, including the TV service, at the
same time it might need to be able to utilize services from other cells
supporting different frequency bands or two cells at the same time where the
cells could even be unsynchronized. A UEs should therefore also be able to
receive eMBMS from one site while receiving other services from a site
selected according to the normal cell reselection procedure. Support for
multiple cells at the same time in UEs would enable sufficient eMBMS coverage
with power and/or equipment saving.
### 4.17.2 Pre-conditions
User A wants to watch the news using eMBMS while use the UE for other data
services at the same time.
The eMBMS service is broadcasted from a larger macro cell in the area,
covering the same area as multiple smaller cells.
The cell reselection procedure has select a different (smaller) cell as the
most favorable for the data traffic, while the UE is using the eMBMS service
from a large cell in the same area.
### 4.17.3 Service Flows
User A is watching the news using eMBMS while using the UE for other data
services at the same time.
### 4.17.4 Post-conditions
The user liked the service experience and is satisfied.
### 4.17.5 Potential Requirements
A UE shall be able to receive eMBMS from one cell while receiving other
services from the same cell or another cell.
## 4.18 Use Case 18: Simultaneous use of any LTE services from one network and
TV service from another network
### 4.18.1 Description
A content provider has an agreement with MNO A to broadcast a TV service to
all users in a certain geographical area. The users do not need to have a
subscription with MNO A in order to be able to receive the service so MNOs
have agreed that UEs subscribed to one network shall be able to receive
certain eMBMS services from another network.
One use case is eMBMS in a stadium where the stadium-related service should be
received by UEs regardless to which network they are subscribed.
### 4.18.2 Pre-conditions
MNO A's network with eMBMS is integrated into a stadium's infrastructure in
order for the stadium-related TV service to be received by UEs regardless to
which network they are subscribed.
### 4.18.3 Service Flows
Two teams are playing a soccer game. One team's forward is making the final
score.
All users in the stadium view the replay of the goal on their UEs regardless
of the network they are subscribed to.
### 4.18.4 Post-conditions
Everybody inside the arena can see the final goal in replay using eMBMS
regardless of the subscribed MNO.
### 4.18.5 Potential Requirements
An MNO shall be able to service all UEs in an area with eMBMS independent of
which MNO network(s) they have subscription to.
## 4.19 Use Case 19: Fixed Reception for TV program
### 4.19.1 Description
An MNO provides a TV service over an LTE network. A TV service consists of one
or more TV programmes and associated programme information. The TV service may
be a linear TV service, an on-demand TV service or a complementary offer of
both types. The MNO wants to make available these TV services by means of
stationary roof-top antennas in order to exploit the higher received signal
level achievable by such an antenna. For linear TV services, at least until
today fixed roof-top reception constitutes the bulk of service consumption in
many countries.
### 4.19.2 Pre-conditions
An MNO runs a TV service over an LTE eMBMS enabled network. Users have eMBMS
enabled devices, e.g. in the form of set-top boxes connected to roof-top
antennas. The TV service contains linear TV programmes or on-demand TV content
or both.
### 4.19.3 Service Flows
The MNO decides to offer both linear and on-demand TV programmes as part of
his TV service offer. The transmissions are received via fixed roof-top
antenna and passed to eMBMS-enabled devices e.g. set-top boxes or integrated
TV receivers. Users can then watch TV services e.g. on the stationary TV sets.
### 4.19.4 Post-conditions
TV programmes selected by the MNO are offered in a given area. Users are able
to receive the TV programmes, both linear and on-demand programmes, via roof-
top antennas.
### 4.19.5 Potential Requirements
The 3GPP network shall allow a UE to receive a broadcast TV content using
existing TV antenna equipment.
## 4.20 Use case 20: Hybrid TV delivery
### 4.20.1 Description
A TV content provider provides hybrid TV delivery over a digital terrestrial
TV (DTT) network and a 3GPP network run by an MNO. The most popular TV content
is delivered over the DTT network using the technology available (e.g. DVB-T).
This DTT delivery is primarily targeting fixed installations but can also be
made available to mobile devices through for instance WiFi access points. The
on demand and long tail of less popular scheduled or live content is delivered
using unicast in the 3GPP network targeting all kind of devices, while the
most popular content reaching mobile phones will be delivered in a separate
broadcast in the MNO network.
The purpose with Hybrid delivery is to optimize for cost and spectral
efficiency, by configuring the networks so that broadcast is used only when
viewing volumes motivates it. The target is to ensure highly specialised
streams for each situation that are more efficient than a combined,
compromised stream.
### 4.20.2 Pre-conditions
User A has a terminal, which is a UE with additional support for the DTT
technology. The terminal will display the TV content to the user in an
integrated way so that it is not relevant for the user to see if it is
delivered through the 3GPP system or over the DTT network.
### 4.20.3 Service Flows
User A is watching a very popular TV show and then switches to a replay of an
old show. The terminal will first receive content that are broadcasted with
the DTT technology, and then content that are transmitted over unicast to the
UE.
### 4.20.4 Post-conditions
User A will be able to receive both TV shows and will not notice the change of
delivery method.
### 4.20.5 [Potential] Requirements
The 3GPP network shall be able to deliver TV content to fixed installed TV
using unicast as part of a hybrid solution.
NOTE: It is foreseen that the TV unit integrates the different streams in
order to give the user experience as DTT reception only, but this is outside
of 3GPP scope. The decision to broadcast content over DTT or the 3GPP system
is out of 3GPP scope.
# 5 Potential Requirements
## 5.1 General consolidated requirements
[CPR-5.1-001] The 3GPP network shall be able to support on-demand network
capacity assignment for MNO/OTT provider's TV program.
[CPR-5.1-002] The 3GPP system shall allow the MNO to implement a network only
support downlink broadcasting based on a set of EPS functionalities and
entities which are required to offer a linear TV program.
[CPR-5.1-003] The 3GPP network shall be able to support on-demand network
broadcast geographic area coverage management for MNO/OTT provider's TV
program.
[CPR-5.1-004] The 3GPP network shall support UHD content delivery.
[CPR-5.1-005] Subject to regulatory requirements the MNO may decide to provide
TV FTA programs receivable by all UE irrespective of whether they are
subscribed to the MNO, a roaming UEs of other MNOs, in limited service state,
or are using the receive only mode without subscription to any MNO.
[CPR-5.1-006] Subject to national regulation the 3GPP network shall provide
the ability to maintain the anonymity of the receiving user if required by the
regulator or MNO.
[CPR-5.1-007] The 3GPP network shall provide mechanisms to restrict the
reception of some or all TV programs to many subscribers (e.g. based on the
recipients of the programs are subscribers of the MNO, roaming subscribers of
other MNOs, or not subscribed to any MNO).
[CPR-5.1-008] The quality of experience of the TV program shall be independent
from the size of the concurrent audience.
[CPR-5.1-009] While receiving TV programs, subscribers of the MNO and roaming
subscribers shall be able to access other subscribed services such as voice,
data or SMS.
[CPR-5.1-010] The 3GPP network shall support combinations of SD, FHD and UHD
resolution programs on LTE based TV program.
[CPR-5.1-011] The 3GPP network shall allow the MNO to provide a TV program in
a resource efficient manner over a large area possibly consisting of urban and
rural parts, up to the size of a country.
## 5.2 Additional consolidated requirements
### 5.2.1 Broadband broadcast performance enhancement
[CPR-5.2.1-001]The 3GPP system shall be able to support [8Mbps-20Mbps] over
one broadcast channel.
[CPR-5.2.1-002] The 3GPP network shall be able to support at least [10] high
quality video channels of 12Mbps each simultaneously via broadcast.
[CPR-5.2.1-003] The 3GPP network shall support flexible change between
broadcast and unicast per traffic demand over the same carrier.
[CPR-5.2.1-004] The 3GPP network shall be able to support using a full carrier
for broadcast.
[CPR-5.2.1-005] The 3GPP network shall be able to convert network unicast
capacity to network broadcast capacity and vice versa.
[CPR-5.2.1-006] The 3GPP network shall be able to support using one carrier
for both unicast and broadcast distribution of TV programmes.
[CPR-5.2.1-007] If allowed by the operator and a spare carrier is available,
the 3GPP network shall be able to make use of spare carriers or free up
carriers if not required anymore.
### 5.2.2 Broadcast network flexibility
[CPR-5.2.2-001] The 3GPP network shall be able to support network broadcast
capacity assignment considering following criteria:
  * OTT provider request (including TV program information(e.g., codec > information, media type information, etc))
  * available network unicast/broadcast capacity of 3GPP network
[CPR-5.2.2-002] Within the radio resources dedicated to LTE based TV program
in a geographic area the 3GPP network shall allow the MNO to specify the
allocation of radio resource by the following:
  * static allocation, i.e., pre-defined maximum percentage to be used > for unicast and broadcast
  * dynamic allocation, i.e., the pre-defined maximum percentage for > both unicast and broadcast to be changed at a time-resolution of > [one] minute over a period of [24] hours
[CPR-5.2.2-003] The 3GPP network shall be able to support network broadcast
geographic area coverage management considering following criteria:
  * OTT provider request (including the potential coverage information > of TV program information)
  * available network unicast/broadcast capacity of 3GPP network
  * number of users under broadcast network coverage
  * The location information of UE
[CPR-5.2.2-004] The 3GPP network shall be able to deliver media content to a
dynamically formed broadcast group in an efficient manner.
[CPR-5.2.2-005] The 3GPP system shall be capable of ensuring the timing
sequence of different media content received by different UEs belonging to the
same user, via different transport path, aligning with the timing sequence of
TV program of the OTT provider.
[CPR-5.2.2-006] A UE shall be able to receive eMBMS from one cell while
receiving other services from the same cell or another possibly cell.
[CPR-5.2.2-007] A MNO shall be able to service all UEs in an area with eMBMS
independent of which MNO network(s) they have subscription to.
### 5.2.3 TV service support
[CPR-5.2.3-001] The eMBMS service layer should support audio and video formats
typically supported by TV Content Providers for HD TV services and UHD TV
programs.
[CPR-5.2.3-002] The eMBMS service layer should support codecs typically
supported by TV Content Providers for HD TV programs and UHD TV programs.
[CPR-5.2.3-003] The eMBMS service layer should support accessibility functions
typically supported by TV Content Providers (e.g. subtitling, closed
captioning, audio descriptions, anonymous reception, reporting to support
ratings, reporting enforcement, etc.).
[CPR-5.2.3-004] The eMBMS service layer should support regulatory mandates
typically supported by TV Content Providers (blackouts, emergency alerts,
etc.).
[CPR-5.2.3-005] The eMBMS service layer should support interactivity functions
typically supported by TV Content Providers (interactive services, second
screen, personalization, etc.).
[CPR-5.2.3-006] The eMBMS service layer should support ad insertion use cases
typically supported by TV Content Providers (targeted ad insertion, ad
replacement, etc.),
[CPR-5.2.3-007] The eMBMS service layer should support encryption, security
and conditional access functions typically supported by TV Content Providers.
[CPR-5.2.3-008] The eMBMS service layer should support efficient concurrent
delivery of multiple application components (TV program application
signalling, statistical multiplexing, etc.).
[CPR-5.2.3-009] The eMBMS service layer should support random access and
channel change times comparable to existing HD TV programs.
[CPR-5.2.3-010] The eMBMS service layer should support program content
delivery over broadcast only, unicast only and combinations of the two.
[CPR-5.2.3-011] The eMBMS service layer should support delivery of real-time
and non-real-time content.
[CPR-5.2.3-012] The eMBMS service layer should enable extensibility and
forward-compatibility to new requirements, formats, codecs and other functions
to the extent possible.
[CPR-5.2.3-013] An eMBMS transport layer should be able to transport TV
service streams formatted not compliant to 3GPP standards.
[CPR-5.2.3-014] A UE should be able to access an eMBMS transport session with
the support of only transport metadata.
[CPR-5.2.3-015] An eMBMS system should be able to be initiated by a UE with
sufficient metadata provided by a mechanism other than User Service
Description for non 3GPP transport services.
### 5.2.4 RAN sharing
[CPR-5.2.4-001] A participating eMBMS-enabled RAN shall be capable of
distributing the content including both free-to-air content and subscribed
content in conjunction with other participating eMBMS-enabled RANs.
[CPR-5.2.4-002] The hosting eMBMS-enabled RAN network provider shall be able
to manage the shared eMBMS network to each of the participating MNOs.
[CPR-5.2.4-003] Each RAN provider shall report events supporting the
accounting of network resource usage separately for each Participating MNO.
This includes:
  * Start of service in the shared eMBMS network for a UE of the > Participating MNO
  * End of service in the shared eMBMS network for a UE of the > Participating MNO
### 5.2.5 Charging
[CPR-5.2.5-001] The 3GPP network shall not collect charging data on individual
subscribers for FTA.
[CPR-5.2.5-002] The 3GPP network shall provide mechanisms to collect charging
data on a per subscriber basis indicating at least, but not restricted to, the
program viewed, time and duration, the recipients of the programs are
subscribers of the MNO or are roaming subscribers of other MNOs.
### 5.2.6 Wide area support
[CPR-5.2.6-001] The eMBMS network shall be able to support designated coverage
area roughly equal to that of DTT coverage.
### 5.2.7 Capability exposure
[CPR-5.2.7-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to support an MNO offering on-
demand broadcast availability to MNO/OTT provider's TV program.
[CPR-5.2.7-002] Subject to MNO and 3^rd^ OTT party agreement, to enable the
MNO to evaluate the impact on distribution of data transfer in the network,
the 3^rd^ OTT party shall be able to indicate to the MNO the desired media
format information: the volume of the data traffic expected to be broadcast in
this geographic area, indication whether the streaming content can be accessed
when the mobile users moves out/in of broadcast coverage area, indication
whether the streaming content can be cached in the MNO network, association
information among users i.e. user information, expected media content
information, device information and group information of TV program and the
timing relationship information of different media content.
[CPR-5.2.7-003] The 3GPP network shall be able to allow MNO to inform the
result (e.g., selected media format information, mode of content delivery
(broadcast only, broadcast/unicast fallback support, MooD), QoE of content
delivery, cached content indication) of delivery to 3^rd^ party.
### 5.2.8 Fix reception for TV program
[CPR.5.2.8-001]The 3GPP network shall allow a UE to receive a broadcast TV
content using existing TV antenna equipment.
# 6 Conclusion and Recommendations
A number of use cases have been identified for TV service (including linear
TV, Live, Video on Demand and also smart TV, and managed and OTT content)
support over EPS system.
The study has resulted in a set of potential requirements as captured in the
previous clause.
It is recommended that the requirements identified in this TR are considered
for the development of normative requirements.
#