# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
3GPP has introduced paging function which is initiated by the MME/SGSN to make
signaling interaction with the UE that is in IDLE state. However, both M2M
devices and the OTT (over the top) applications installed on the smart phones
result in great paging signaling load. Therefore, there is a need to further
investigate the paging policies and procedures to solve the paging signaling
load in LTE. This TR aims to study the specific scenarios where there is a
need to enhance the paging policies and optimize the paging procedures.
# 1 Scope
**The objective is to study use cases and propose potential requirements to
enhance the information set (e.g., user's subscription, application
characteristics) upon which paging policies may be based to allow optimization
of the paging procedures in LTE.**
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TR 21 912 (V3.1.0): \"Example 2, using fixed text\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Use Cases
## 4.1 Device assisted paging optimization
### 4.1.1 Description
The number of devices is going to increase several folds in the near future.
Unless paging optimizations that reduce the paging traffic are introduced,
there could be serious negative impacts on the network's paging capacity and
also on the paging delays e.g. increase set up time for incoming notifications
and call setup times.
There are scenarios where a device is temporary stationary or is in low
mobility during a long period of time e.g. when the user is at home, or at
work. If the network during these period of time, can identify the device's
mobility status, it can utilize this information to optimize its paging
procedure towards the device e.g. by reducing the size of the paging area to
something less than the Tracking Area as illustrated in the figure below.
{width="6.752777777777778in" height="3.279861111111111in"}
Figure 4-1: Device assisted paging optimization
### 4.1.2 Pre-conditions
\- Bob arrives at work.
### 4.1.3 Service Flows
\- Bob has been working at his office for some time.
\- The network determines that Bob's device is stationary or moving within a
limited area.
\- The network is able to optimize its paging procedure towards Bob's device.
### 4.1.4 Post-conditions
\- Paging signalling load has been reduced.
### 4.1.5 Potential Requirements
\- The network shall be able to take the movement of a device into account
when paging the device.
## 4.2 Paging policy differentiation based on application characteristics
### 4.2.1 Description
This use case describes an enhancement that allows the paging policy to be
differentiated based on the application characteristics known to and trusted
by the serving network.
The serving network could identify the traffic's application characteristics.
Then the serving network can differentiate the paging policies based on this
information.
### 4.2.2 Pre-conditions
The serving network supports the ability to identify the traffic's application
characteristics.
The serving network has a paging policy that allows it to optimize the paging
function when the radio access network is congested.
Alice's UE is in IDLE state and IMAPP is one of IM applications running on her
smart phone.
### 4.2.3 Service Flows
The radio access network happens to be congested.
Alice's friend sends her a message on IMAPP.
The serving network has identified that this traffic could be subjected to a
paging policy optimization function.
The serving network optimizes the paging function, e.g., by delaying the
paging messages towards Alice's UE.
### 4.2.4 Post-conditions
The serving network is able to send Alice the messages on IMAPP.
### 4.2.5 Potential Requirements
The 3GPP core network shall be able to identify the traffic's application
characteristics, (e.g. application type, application protocol, application
provider).
The 3GPP core network shall be able to apply different paging policies based
on application characteristics provided by a source known to and trusted by
the serving network (e.g. the home network).
## 4.3 Paging policy differentiation based on user's likely location
### 4.3.1 Description
This use case describes that the paging load could potentially be reduced if
the network takes the likely location of the UE within the paging area into
account (e.g., by first paging the UE in a subset of the paging area only).
NOTE: Taking the UE's likely location into account when paging can also lead
to longer delays until a UE is reached. Operators are expected to ensure that
such paging policies are only applied to UEs and/or applications that can
handle longer delays.
### 4.3.2 Pre-conditions
The 3GPP core network has a paging policy that takes the likely location of
the UE within the paging area into account.
### 4.3.3 Service Flows
Alice's UE is in IDLE state. Her friend sends her a message through an APP on
her UE.
The 3GPP core network is aware about the likely location of Alice's UE within
the paging area. Based on this, the network sends paging messages in a subset
of the paging area only.
If the UE does not respond to the paging request, the 3GPP core network may
make another attempt to page the UE. To ensure that the UE can eventually be
reached, the 3GPP core network can for instance increase the paging area with
every paging attempt.
### 4.3.4 Post-conditions
The 3GPP core network is able to page Alice's UE and send her the message. The
signaling load may have been reduced (if Alice's UE was successfully paged
directly) or will have increased if multiple paging attempts had to be made
because the UE was not located in the assumed subset of the paging area.
### 4.3.5 Potential Requirements
The 3GPP core network may be able to take the likely location of the UE within
the paging area into account when paging the UE.
# 5 Considerations
## 5.1 Considerations on congestion
The 3GPP core network can take various information into account to determine
the paging policies. The network should be able to identify UEs requiring
priority treatment. During congestion, the network should be able to provide
priority treatment to those UEs that require it.
5.2 Considerations on charging
It does not have additional requirements on the 3GPP system.
# 6 Potential Requirements
The 3GPP network shall be able to take the movement of a device into account
when paging the device.
The 3GPP core network shall be able to identify the traffic's application
characteristics (e.g. application type, application protocol, application
provider, and delay sensitivity).
The 3GPP core network shall be able to apply different paging policies based
on application characteristics provided by a source known to and trusted by
the serving network (e.g. the home network).
The 3GPP core network may be able to take the likely location of the UE within
the paging area into account when paging the UE.
# 7 Conclusion and Recommendations
The study has identified several use cases where the 3GPP system could
optimize the paging procedures in LTE. It has also resulted in a set of
potential requirements as captured in the previous section.
It is recommended that the requirements in this TR are taken as a basis for
the development of normative requirements.
#