# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document covers Critical Communications. The main areas where the
3GPP system falls short in meeting the requirements of Critical Communications
is latency, reliability, and availability. These requirements can be met with
an improved radio interface, optimised architecture, and dedicated core and
radio resources. Other requirements having emerged in 3GPP TR 22.891 [2],
such, as, high bandwidth, high connection density, low complexity, low power
consumption, and massive number of devices, are often irrelevant for Critical
Communications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 22.891: \"Feasibility Study on New Services and Markets Technology
Enablers; Stage 1\".
[3] METIS D1.5 Updated scenarios, requirements and KPIs for 5G mobile and
wireless system with recommendations for future investigations, May 2015
[4] METIS D1.1 Scenarios, requirements and KPIs for 5G mobile and wireless
system, April 2013
[5] NGMN 5G White Paper v1.0
[6] IEEE: A. Frotzscher et al., \"Requirements and current solutions of
wireless communication in industrial automation\", ICC 2014.
[7] IEEE Communications Magazine, February 2014, G. Fettweis and S. Alamouti,
\"5G: Personal Mobile Internet beyond What Cellular Did to Telephony\"
[8] 3GPP TR 22.861: \"Feasibility Study on New Services and Markets Technology
Enablers for Massive Internet of Things; Stage 1\".
[9] 3GPP TR 22.863: \"Feasibility Study on New Services and Markets Technology
Enablers - Enhanced Mobile Broadband; Stage 1\"
[10] 3GPP TR 22.864: \"Feasibility Study on New Services and Markets
Technology Enablers - Network Operation; Stage 1\"
[11] GSA 5G Verticals Series - Education.
http://gsacom.com/paper/5g-verticals-education/
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Availability (%)** : Percentage value of the amount of time the 3GPP system
is delivering services divided by the amount of time it is expected to deliver
services in a specific area.
**Reliability (%)** : The amount of sent network layer packets successfully
delivered to a given node within the time constraint required by the targeted
service, divided by the total number of sent network layer packets.
**Service continuity** : The uninterrupted user experience of a service that
is using an active communication when a UE undergoes an access change without,
as far as possible, the user noticing the change.
NOTE 1: In particular Service Continuity encompasses the possibility that
after a change the user experience is maintained by a different
telecommunication service (e.g. tele- or bearer service) than before the
change.
NOTE 2: Examples of access changes include the following. From pre-5G: CS/PS
domain change. From 5G: switching between a direct 3GPP connection and an
indirect 3GPP connection.
**Tactile internet** : System where a human controls physical or real objects
by tactile input, and receives tactile, audio, or visual feedback of his
actions. The feedback has to arrive fast enough to give the impression of
zero-latency control.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
3D three Dimensional
MPS Multimedia Priority Service
MU Merging Units
NS/EP National Security and Emergency Preparedness
UAV Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
# 4 Overview
The objective of this study is to develop use cases and identify potential
service and operational requirements to enable 3GPP network operators to
support Critical Communications. The following use case families have been
identified in 3GPP TR 22.891 [2] in the area of Critical Communications
\- Higher reliability and lower latency
\- Higher reliability, higher availability and lower latency
\- Very low latency
\- Higher accuracy positioning
\- Higher availability
\- Mission Critical Services
# 5 Use cases families
## 5.1 Higher reliability and lower latency
### 5.1.1 Description
The use case family \"_higher reliability and lower latency_ \" is
characterised by a high system requirement for reliability and latency. In
most cases the data rates are moderate, and what matters most is that the
messages are transmitted quickly and reliably.
One typical area where this type of communication is needed is a power plant.
The network coverage may be limited to a confined area, either indoor or
outdoor, and often only authorised users and devices can attach to it. Network
slicing may be used to isolate the traffic from other traffic in the network,
to allow for additional tailoring of services, and to avoid other traffic
negatively impacting services requiring \"_higher reliability and lower
latency_ \". Another potential area is virtual presence where multiple people
are present and communicating with each other in a virtual environment, or
where a remote student can obtain her real time 360° video communication with
their classmates and teacher.
Remote control of devices, such as, UAVs (Unmanned Aerial Vehicles) and
ground-based vehicles fit well under \"_higher reliability and lower latency_
\"; the moving devices must be controlled quickly and reliably. The latency
does not, however, need to be ultra low when a human operator is involved, the
human reaction speed sets the expected level of delay, and requiring a much
lower latency from the communication network than its operator makes little
sense. For computer-controlled devices a very low latency may become a
relevant requirement. The data rates to transmit the control and measurement
data are not very high but if the operation of the vehicle relies on a video
feed, then the required data rates are higher. The pilot of the vehicle needs
to be aware of the location of the vehicle. For most purposes the geographic
location is needed to provide a rough position, and local positioning, e.g.,
relying on a radar, is used for collision avoidance.
It is supposed that cloud robotics will be widely used in future for industry
and living, for example, each family has one or several cloud robotics that
are connected to the 3GPP network. Robots can play an important role in
assisting people with disabilities, e.g., helping students with special needs
to interact with their educational environment and people around them.
### 5.1.2 Traffic scenarios
#### 5.1.2.1 Industrial Factory Automation
Industrial factory automation requires communications for closed-loop control
applications. Examples for such applications are robot manufacturing, round-
table production, machine tools, packaging and printing machines. In these
applications, a controller interacts with large number of sensors and
actuators (e.g., up to 300) integrated in a manufacturing unit (e.g., 10 m x
10 m x 3 m). The resulting sensor/actuator density is often very high (e.g.,
up to 1/m^3^). Many such manufacturing units may have to be supported within
close proximity within a factory (e.g., up to 100 in automobile assembly line
production).
In a closed-loop control application, the controller periodically submits
instructions to a set of sensor/actuator devices, which return a response
within a cycle time. The messages, referred to as telegrams, are typically
small (\<50 bytes). The cycle time ranges between 2 and 20 ms setting
stringent latency constraints on telegram forwarding (from \<1 ms to10 ms).
Additional constraints on isochronous telegram delivery add tight constraints
on jitter (10-100 μs). Transport has to meet stringent reliability
requirements (\<10^-9^). In addition, sensor/actuator power consumption is
often critical.
To meet the stringent requirements of closed-loop factory automation, the
following considerations may have to be taken:
\- Limitation to short-range communications.
\- Use of direct device connection between the controller and actuators
\- Allocation of licensed spectrum for closed-loop control operations.
Licensed spectrum may further be used as a complement to unlicensed spectrum,
e.g., to enhance reliability.
\- Reservation of dedicated air-interface resources for each link.
\- Combining of multiple diversity techniques to approach the high reliability
target within stringent latency constraints such as frequency, antenna, and
various forms of spatial diversity, e.g., via relaying
\- Utilizing OTA time synchronization to satisfy jitter constraints for
isochronous operation.
\- Network access security used in an industrial factory deployment is
provided and managed by the factory owner with its ID management,
authentication, confidentiality and integrity.
A typical industrial closed-loop control application is based on individual
control events. Each closed-loop control event consists of a downlink
transaction followed by a synchronous uplink transaction both of which are
executed within a cycle time, Tcycle. Control events within a manufacturing
unit may have to occur isochronously. Factory automation considers
application-layer transaction cycles between controller devices and
sensor/actuator devices. Each transaction cycle consists of (1) a command sent
by the controller to the sensor/actuator (downlink), (2) application-layer
processing on the sensor/actuator device, and (3) a subsequent response by the
sensor/actuator to the controller (uplink). Cycle time includes the entire
transaction from the transmission of a command by the controller to the
reception of a response by the controller. It includes all lower layer
processes and latencies on the air interface as well the application-layer
processing time on the sensor/actuator.
1\. Controller requests sensor to take a measurement (or an actuator to
conduct actuation).
2\. Sensor sends measurement information (or acknowledges actuation) to
controller.
{width="6.464583333333334in" height="4.0875in"}
Figure 5.1.2.1-1: Communication Path for Isochronous Control Cycles within
Factory Units
Figure 5.1.2.1-1 depicts how communication may occur in factory automation. In
this use case, communication is confined to local controller-to-
sensor/actuator interaction within each manufacturing unit. Repeaters may
provide spatial diversity to enhance reliability.
#### 5.1.2.2 Industrial Process Automation
Process automation requires communications for both supervisory and open-loop
control applications, as well as process monitoring and tracking operations
inside an industrial plant. In these applications, a large number of sensors
(\~10,000) that are distributed over the plant forward measurement data to
process controllers on a periodic or event-driven base. Traditionally,
wireline field bus technologies have been used to interconnect sensors and
control equipment. Due to the sizable extension of the plant (\~10 km^2^), the
large number of sensors and the high deployment complexity of wired
infrastructure, wireless solution have made inroads into industrial process
automation. Presently, high growth rates are expected in the migration from
wireline to wireless solutions for industrial process manufacturing.
The use case requires support of a large number of sensor devices (e.g.,
10,000) per plant as well as highly reliable transport (packet loss rate
\<10^-5^). Further, power consumption is critical since most sensor devices
are battery-powered with a targeted battery lifetimes of several years while
providing measurement updates every few seconds. Range also becomes a critical
factor due to the low transmit power levels of the sensors, the large size of
the plant and the high reliability requirements on transport. Latency
requirements typically range between 100 ms and 1 s. Data rates can be rather
low since each transaction typically comprises less than 100 bytes.
The existing wireless technologies rely on unlicensed technologies. Transport
is therefore vulnerable to interference caused by other technologies (e.g.,
WLAN). This sensitivity can be more significant given the low transmit power
level of the sensors. With the stringent requirements on transport
reliability, such interference is detrimental to proper operation.
The use of licensed spectrum could overcome the vulnerability to same-band
interference and therefore enable higher reliability. Utilization of licensed
spectrum can be confined to those events where high interference bursts in
unlicensed bands jeopardizes reliability and latency constraints. This allows
sharing the licensed spectrum between process automation and conventional
mobile services.
Further, multi-hop topologies can provide range extension and mesh topologies
can increase reliability through path redundancy. Time synchronization will be
highly beneficial since it enables more power-efficient sensor operation and
mesh forwarding.
A typical process control application supports downstream and upstream flows
between process controllers and sensors/actuators which consist of individual
transactions. The process controller resides in the plant network. This
network interconnects via base stations to the wireless (mesh-) network which
hosts the sensor/actuator devices. Typically, each transaction uses less than
100 bytes. An example of a controller-initiated transaction service flow:
1\. The process controller requests a sensor to take a measurement (or an
actuator to conduct actuation). The request is forwarded via the plant network
and the wireless mesh to the sensors/actuators.
2\. The sensors/actuators process the request and send a replay in upstream
direction to the controller. This reply may contain an acknowledgement or a
measurement reading.
An example of a sensor/actuator device initiated transaction service flow:
1\. The sensor sends a measurement reading to the process controller. The
request is forwarded via the wireless mesh and the plant network.
2\. The process controller may send an acknowledgement in opposite direction.
For both controller- and sensor/actuator-initiated service flows, upstream and
downstream transactions may occur asynchronously.
{width="6.117361111111111in" height="4.0055555555555555in"}
Figure 5.1.2.2-1: Communication path for service flows between process
controllers and sensor/actuator devices
Figure 5.1.2.2-1 depicts how communication may occur in process automation. In
this use case, communication runs between process controller and
sensor/actuator device via the plant network and the wireless mesh network.
The wireless mesh may also support access for handheld devices for supervisory
control or process monitoring purposes.
#### 5.1.2.3 Ultra-reliable communications
In order to enable services requiring ultra-reliable communications, a minimum
level of reliability and latency is required to guarantee the user experience
or enable the service initially. This is especially important in areas like
eHealth or for critical infrastructure communications.
Mission critical communication services require preferential handling compared
to normal telecommunication services, e.g., in support of police or fire
brigade.
Examples of mission critical services include:
\- Industrial control systems (from sensor to actuator, very low latency for
some applications)
\- Mobile Health Care, remote monitoring, diagnosis and treatment (high rates
and availability)
\- Real time control of vehicles, road traffic, accident prevention (location,
vector, context, low Round Trip Time RTT)
\- Wide area monitoring and control systems for smart grids
\- Communication of critical information with preferential handling for public
safety scenarios
\- Multimedia Priority Service (MPS) providing priority communications to
authorized users for national security and emergency preparedness.
Overall, mission critical services are expected to require significant
improvements in end-to-end latency, ubiquity, security, robustness,
availability, and reliability compared to UMTS, LTE, and WLAN.
Table 5.1.2.3.1: Example mission critical use cases
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sample use case | Description | Critical | | | | requirements | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Substation | Automates fault | • Latency: as low as | | protection and | detection and | 1 ms end-to-end | | control | isolation to prevent | | | | large scale power | • Packet loss rate: | | | outage | as low as 10^-4^ | | | | | | | For example, Merging | • Transmission | | | Units (MUs) perform | frequency: | | | periodic | 80 samples/cycle for | | | measurements of | protection | | | power system | applications. | | | components, and send | 256 samples/cycle | | | sampled measurement | for quality analysis | | | data to a Protection | and recording | | | Relay. When the | | | | Protection Relay | • Data rate: | | | detects a fault, it | \~12.5 Mbps per MU | | | sends signals to | at 256 samples/cycle | | | trip circuit | | | | breakers | • Range: provide | | | | coverage to the | | | | substation | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Smart grid system | A smart grid system | Performance | | with distributed | aims at improving | requirements are | | sensors and | the efficiency of | derived from EC FP7 | | management | energy distribution | project METIS | | | and requires prompt | Deliverable D.1.1 | | | reaction in | [4]: | | | reconfiguring the | | | | smart grid network | • Throughput: from | | | in response to | 200 to 1521 bytes | | | unforeseen events | reliably (99,999 %) | | | | delivered in 8 ms | | | | | | | | • One trip time | | | | latency between any | | | | two communicating | | | | points should be | | | | less than 8 ms for | | | | event-triggered | | | | message that may | | | | occur anytime | | | | | | | | • Device density | | | | | | | | -- dense urban | | | | hundreds of | | | | UEs per km^2^ | | | | | | | | -- urban around | | | | 15 UEs per km^2^ | | | | | | | | -- populated rural | | | | max 1 UE per km^2^ | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Public Safety | Operation of first | Public Safety | | | responders in case | requires | | | of fire or other | preferential | | | kind of emergency | handling of its | | | situation | traffic | | | | | | | | Requires the ability | | | | to support dynamic | | | | allocation of | | | | quality of service, | | | | priority and | | | | pre-emption | | | | parameters | | | | including: | | | | | | | | • Access Class (AC) | | | | | | | | • Quality of Service | | | | Class Identifier | | | | (QCI) | | | | | | | | • Allocation and | | | | Retention Priority | | | | (ARP) | | | | | | | | • Guaranteed Bit | | | | Rate (GBR) | | | | | | | | • Aggregate Maximum | | | | Bit Rate (AMBR) | | | | | | | | • Differentiated | | | | Services Code Point | | | | (DSCP) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Multimedia Priority | Priority | MPS requires | | Service (MPS) | communications to | preferential | | | authorized national | handling, and | | | security and | priority treatment. | | | emergency | | | | preparedness (NS/EP) | | | | users in times of | | | | disasters and | | | | emergency. | | | | Authorized NS/EP | | | | users have to rely | | | | on public network | | | | services when the | | | | communication | | | | capability of the | | | | serving network may | | | | be impaired, for | | | | example due to | | | | congestion or | | | | partial network | | | | infrastructure | | | | outages, perhaps due | | | | to a direct or | | | | indirect result of | | | | the emergency | | | | situation and | | | | therefore needs | | | | preferential | | | | handling and | | | | priority access to | | | | communication | | | | resources. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 5.1.2.4 Speech, audio and video in virtual and augmented reality
In this traffic scenario, voice communication is used in a highly interactive
environment, e.g., a multiplayer game or a virtual reality meeting. The voices
of participants must be transmitted as quickly as visual information related
to the environment. This requirement applies to both audio and video
components of the environment. The latency requirements for video, 10 ms,
including encoding and decoding are derived from human perception, (higher
latencies may create nausea). To synchronise speech and audio with video, the
one-way delay for speech and audio, including encoding and decoding, should be
similar.
Augmented reality, virtual reality, and three-dimensional (3D) services will
be among the services which play an increasingly significant role in the 2020+
timeframe. These scenarios place critical requirements on transfer bandwidth
(e.g. 8K stereo video -250 Mbps) and delay to provide a better user experience
compared to current video services (2‑4 ms roundtrip delay).
A high frame rate improves the video quality. Virtual reality may require the
capability of displaying content at frame rates of 120 fps or more.
#### 5.1.2.5 Local UAV Collaboration and Connectivity
Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) can collaborate to act as a mobile sensor and
actuator network to execute tasks in uncertain and dynamic environments while
being controlled by a single user. Accuracy in sensing tasks is increased when
deploying a team of UAVs versus just one as there are multiple vantage points
using multiple sensors. Examples of uses for deploying a team of UAVs include:
\- Searching for an intruder or suspect
\- Continual monitoring of natural disasters
\- Performing autonomous mapping
\- Collaborative manipulation of an object (e.g., picking up corners of a
net.)
Figure 5.1.2.4-1 depicts how communication occurs in UAV local vehicle
collaboration and connectivity. Both node to node and UAV to mobile network
links are required.
{width="6.747916666666667in" height="3.359722222222222in"}
Figure 5.1.2.4-1: Communication Path
### 5.1.3 Potential requirements
[PR 5.1.3-001] The 3GPP system shall support cycle times of [1 ms to 2 ms].
Within the cycle time, both uplink and downlink transactions must be executed.
Additional margin is needed for the sensor/actuator to process the request.
[PR 5.1.3-002] Transaction jitter should be [below 10 μs].
[PR 5.1.3-003] Reliability, measured as the fractions of transactions that
cannot meet the latency or jitter constraints, should remain [below 10^-9^].
[PR 5.1.3-004] Each transaction should support a payload of 50 to 100 bytes.
[PR 5.1.3-005] For factory automation, required range is up to [10-20 m].
[PR 5.1.3-006] All transactions should be sufficiently integrity and
confidentiality protected.
[PR 5.1.3-007] The 3GPP system shall support industrial factory deployment
where network access security is provided and managed by the factory owner
with its ID management, authentication, confidentiality and integrity.
[PR 5.1.3-008] The 3GPP system shall support an authentication process that
can handle alternative authentication methods with different types of
credentials to allow for different deployment scenarios such as industrial
factory automation.
[PR 5.1.3-009] The 3GPP system shall support [10,000 sensor nodes within an
area of 10 km^2^].
[PR 5.1.3-010] Reliability for the transport of transactions, measured as the
fractions of packet losses, should remain [below 10^-5^].
[PR 5.1.3-011] The 3GPP system shall support a [transaction latency of 50-100
ms], defined as the overall cycle time between a sensor reading and action
from process controller.
[PR 5.1.3-012] The 3GPP system shall allow a battery powered sensor lifetime
of multiple years while enabling a transaction rate of one every few seconds.
[PR 5.1.3-013] Transactions should be sufficiently integrity- and
confidentiality-protected.
[PR 5.1.3-014] The 3GPP system shall support efficient multiplexing of mission
critical traffic and nominal traffic.
[PR 5.1.3-015] The 3GPP system shall limit the duration of service
interruption for mission critical traffic.
[PR 5.1.3-016] The 3GPP system shall support improved reliability and latency
as defined in table 5.1.2.3.1.
[PR 5.1.3-017] Subject to regional regulatory requirements, the 3GPP system
shall support a mechanism to provide end-to-end integrity and confidentiality
protection for user data.
[PR 5.1.3-018] The 3GPP system shall provide significant improvements in end-
to-end latency, ubiquity, security, availability, and reliability compared to
UMTS, EPS, and Wi-Fi.
[PR 5.1.3-019] The 3GPP system shall support speech and audio with very low
latency, including encoding and decoding of [10 ms].
[PR 5.1.3-020] The 3GPP system shall be able to support video with frame rate
of [120 fps] and very low latency, including encoding and decoding of [10 ms]
[PR 5.1.3-021] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide UE with prioritized
access for transport of data for critical service (e.g., data for healthcare).
[PR 5.1.3-022] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide means to verify
whether a UE is authorized to use prioritized access for transport of data for
critical service.
For UAV collaboration, the 3GPP system shall support:
[PR 5.1.3-023] - One-way latency of [5 ms] on the radio layer for direct
inter-UAV links.
For UAV connectivity, the 3GPP system shall support:
[PR 5.1.3-024] - Continuous wireless coverage for UAV flying at low altitude
of [10-1000] meters with maximum speed of [200 km/h].
[PR 5.1.3-025] - The 3GPP system shall be able to provide at least message
integrity protection. Other security requirements are FFS.
[PR 5.1.3-026] - Priority, Precedence, Pre-emption (PPP) as failure to
transmit communications in reliable and timely manner could result in injury
or loss of property.
## 5.2 Higher reliability, higher availability and lower latency
### 5.2.1 Description
The use case family \"_higher reliability, higher availability and lower
latency_ \" is characterised by high system requirements for reliability,
availability, and latency. In most cases the data rates are moderate, and what
matters most is that the messages are transmitted quickly and reliably, and
that the network and its services are consistently available, with minimal
downtime.
One typical area where this type of communication is needed is industrial
control. The network coverage may be limited to a confined area, either indoor
or outdoor, and often only authorised users and devices can attach to the
network. The availability of services must be guaranteed in the area where the
operator and operated devices are. Network slicing may be used to isolate the
traffic from other traffic in the network, to allow for additional tailoring
of services, and to avoid other traffic negatively impacting services
requiring \"_higher reliability, higher availability and lower latency_ \".
Drone connectivity also requires \"_higher reliability, higher availability
and lower latency_ \"; drones must be controlled quickly and reliably
everywhere they go. The latency does not, however, need to be ultra low
because when a human operator is involved, the human reaction speed sets the
expected level of delay and requiring a much lower latency from the
communications network makes little sense. The data rates to transmit the
control and measurement data are not very high but if the operation of the
vehicle relies on a video feed, then the required data rates are higher. The
pilot of the vehicle needs to be aware of the location of the vehicle. For
most purposes the geographic location is needed to provide a rough position,
and local positioning, e.g., radar, is used for collision avoidance.
### 5.2.2 Traffic scenarios
#### 5.2.2.1 Industrial control
Several industrial control applications require high reliability and very low
latency (\~1 ms) whereas the data rate requirement may be relatively low. In
other cases high data rates may be required, e.g., in the uplink, to deliver
live video stream to a human operator, or a computer which then analyses the
video and adapts the control to the situation (10s of Mbps per user in a dense
environment).
Traditionally industrial control applications have relied on wired
connections, or proprietary or tailored wireless solutions. A wired
connection, despite the potential of being fast, supporting a high bandwidth,
and being reliable, may not be applicable for every situation simply due to
the fact that physical wires are subject to tear and wear, and because wiring
impacts the mechanical design of the machines to be controlled. Proprietary
wireless solutions may suffer from the lack of globally available frequency
bands.
A high-reliability low-latency wireless connection with a high uplink
bandwidth fulfils the requirements for industrial control applications.
Reliability can be further enhanced by dedicating the radio interface to the
specific industrial control application and separating the required core
network processing from other traffic in the network.
Low latency can be further enhanced by allowing local processing of the
traffic.
#### 5.2.2.2 High reliability, high availability, high mobility
The survival of a patient during pre-hospital time is critical, especially in
emergencies such as car accidents and heart attacks when the ambulance moves
from a remote location to the hospital.
The medical equipment and the machines in the ambulance may interface directly
with the telemedicine tools located at the hospital and the hospital doctors
may assist the ambulance personnel in administering medicine and controlling
the medical equipment.
In order to support advanced telemedicine techniques, cloud-based services can
be used to provide anytime and anywhere access to patient medical records,
which makes security related issues more important. Additionally, the
computing resources available through the cloud are expected to support
advanced diagnostics and facilitate remote examinations of patients in high
mobility scenarios.
Since the ambulance may be dispatched to a remote location that does not have
the same coverage and available RATs as in an urban environment (location of
the hospital), fast and seamless handover between different technologies is
crucial. Furthermore, if the ambulance moves from one operator's network to
another then the m-Health service must seamlessly switch/handover from one
network to another.
Since the route to the hospital is known or can be predicted, such real world
information can be exploited by the network to further reduce the
communications delay by moving the computing functions closer to the edge.
High reliability of communications should be achieved.
### 5.2.3 Potential requirements
[PR 5.2.3-001] The 3GPP system shall support very low latency (\~1 ms).
[PR 5.2.3-002] The 3GPP system shall support very high reliability.
[PR 5.2.3-003] The 3GPP system shall support very high availability.
[PR 5.2.3-004] The 3GPP system shall support high uplink data rate (tens of
Mbps per device in a dense environment).
[PR 5.2.3-005] The 3GPP system shall support local processing of the traffic.
[PR 5.2.3-006] The 3GPP system shall support low latency and high throughput
(100 Mbps) even in the high mobility scenario (e.g. up to 120 km/h).
[PR 5.2.3-007] The 3GPP system shall support service continuity in the high
mobility scenario.
[PR 5.2.3-008] The 3GPP system shall support ultra-high reliability (99,999 %
or higher) [3][4] even in the high mobility scenario.
[PR 5.2.3-009] The 3GPP system shall support high availability (approximately
100 % of the time on the road) [4] even in the high mobility scenario.
[PR 5.2.3-010] The 3GPP system shall support low end-to-end latency ranging
from 1 ms up to 10 ms [3] even in the high mobility scenario.
[PR 5.2.3-011] The 3GPP system shall support dynamic resource utilization in
the cloud and at the network edge (compute, storage, network and radio) for a
given UE.
[PR 5.2.0-001] The 3GPP system shall support a moderate end-to-end latency (75
ms) and moderate uplink data rates (20 Mbps). [REF!]
[PR 5.2.0-002] The 3GPP system shall support very high reliability. [REF!]
[PR 5.2.0-003] The 3GPP system shall support the prioritisation of critical
traffic over other traffic in the same network.
[PR 5.2.0-004] The 3GPP system shall support the isolation of critical traffic
from other traffic in the same network.
NOTE 1: The device speed is relatively high, e.g., 200 km/h.
NOTE 2: Devices are airborne, at altitudes of, e.g., 10-1.000 m
## 5.3 Very low latency
### 5.3.1 Description
The use case family \"_very low latency_ \" is characterised by a system
requirement for very low latency. It is essential to carry the messages very
quickly between the sender and receiver. Depending on the application, the
data rates may be low, e.g., for measurement values or control signalling, or
moderate to high, if a video feed is used, e.g., in a virtual environment, For
several applications reliability is also important; if it is important that
the information is sent quickly, often it is also important that it arrives
reliably.
One typical area where this type of communication is needed is tactile
internet. For example, a human operator controls a device and receives both
visual and tactile feedback from the operated device and its environment as if
he were there in person, and as if the device were an extension of his arms
and eyes.
### 5.3.2 Traffic scenarios
#### 5.3.2.1 Extreme real-time communications and the tactile internet
As mentioned in the NGMN 5G whitepaper [5] and 3GPP TR 22.891 [2], \"extreme
real-time communications\" present tight requirements for communications
networks. An example of an extreme real-time application is the tactile
internet. Tactile internet applications require extremely low latency and high
reliability and security.
Examples of extreme real-time communications include:
\- Truly immersive, proximal cloud driven virtual reality
\- Remote control of vehicles and robots, real-time control of flying and
driving things
\- Remote health care, monitoring, diagnosis, treatment, surgery
\- Education: Telementoring, Teleteaching, Teleteamworking [11].
#### 5.3.2.2 Tactile internet
Tactile internet makes the cellular network an extension of our human sensory
and neural system. The human sensory system requires a millisecond or lower
latency to give the impression of immediate response. If the force feedback
from a remotely operated tool comes too late, the operation of the tool
becomes difficult. If the visual feedback from a virtual or augmented reality
headset arrives too late, the human operator may experience nausea.
Another important requirement for tactile internet is very high reliability:
if the human operator operates a device that interacts with its surroundings,
it is very important that he remains in full control of that device all the
time. Security is also important: the connection must remain intact and
secure, without the possibility for 3rd parties to block, modify, or steal the
connection.
### 5.3.3 Potential requirements
[PR 5.3.3-001] The 3GPP system shall support 1 ms one-way delay between mobile
devices and devices in the nearby Internet.
[PR 5.3.3-002] The 3GPP System shall support very low one-way latency on the
radio layer [1 ms].
[PR 5.3.3-003] The 3GPP System shall support very high reliability.
[PR 5.3.3-004] The 3GPP System shall support connections that are very
difficult to block, modify, or hijack.
[PR 5.3.3-005] The 3GPP System shall minimize the delay (e.g. that caused by
signalling, incl. for security) that is required prior to user data
transmission.
NOTE: This requirement has been derived for e.g. drones with event based
communication establishment. To reduce the delay from the application point of
view it is necessary to e.g. minimize the number of steps that are required
before user data may be transmitted.
## 5.4 Higher accuracy positioning
### 5.4.1 Description
The use case family \"_higher accuracy positioning_ \" is characterised by a
high system requirement for positioning accuracy. High positioning accuracy
includes requirements that the location information is acquired quickly, is
reliable, and is available (e.g., it is possible to determine the position).
In some cases it is also important to be able to send the location information
to another device, e.g., a controller, if the location information cannot be
processed or used locally. Therefore, high positioning accuracy is often
linked to a high system requirement for reliability, availability, and
latency, but the data rates needed to carry the location information are very
low.
For this use case family and related requirements it is important to separate
the actual measurement and possible transmission of the location information.
It is also important to separate the need to know the absolute position, e.g.,
geographical coordinates, and the position relative to surrounding objects,
e.g., distance from the car in front.
One typical area where \"_higher accuracy positioning_ \" is needed is
collision avoidance of vehicles: every vehicle must be aware of its own
position, the positions of near-by vehicles, and also their expected paths, to
avoid collisions.
Next generation high accuracy positioning will require a level of accuracy
less than [1 m] in more than [95 %] of service area, including indoor, outdoor
and urban environments. Specifically, network based positioning in three-
dimensional space should be supported with accuracy from [10 m] to [\<1 m] in
[80 %] of situations, and better than [1 m] for indoor deployments [2].
High accuracy positioning service in a 5G network should be supported in areas
of traffic roads, tunnel, underground car-park or indoor environment. The
figure below provides an example of a network supporting high accuracy
positioning.
Figure 5.4-1: An example of network supporting high accuracy positioning
In some critical communication events e.g., in a situation where first aid
personnel cannot arrive promptly to the scene of an emergency, use of an UAV
(Unmanned Aerial Vehicle) or UAV team with higher accuracy position capability
supported by the 3GPP network can improves emergency response efficiency.
### 5.4.2 Traffic scenarios
In the scenario presented below, it is assumed that positioning nodes are
coordinated with enhanced cellular communication base stations to form a
carrier-grade telecommunication and positioning network. For example, vehicles
are navigating using the enhanced positioning signal transmitted by the next-
generation base stations. Since the vehicles are guided along the invisible
lanes marked by the positioning signal, there are no painted lines, crosswalk
lines or even traffic lights in the intersection. However, in the driver
vision the information of driveway, safety marks, pedestrians, and other
objects are clearly shown through augmented reality windshield display.
#### 5.4.2.1 Higher accuracy positioning outdoor with high speed moving
Jack rides on an autonomous driving vehicle A and goes to a large shopping
mall. At the intersection of a city surrounded by high-rise buildings, another
vehicle B is approaching with a speed of 60 km/h. The two vehicles are aware
of the potential crash since the coarse location information was exchanged
using V2X communication. The vehicles schedule the course, speed, and passing
order at the intersection in millisecond unit.
Before the vehicles meet at the intersection, the vehicles start measuring the
location in 1 m accuracy at every 100 ms and exchange the information via V2V
communication. The vehicles constantly calculate the course and adjust the
speed. At the crossing point, the two vehicles safely pass the intersection at
the time difference of 1 s, which is only 17 m gap in the vehicle speed of 60
km/h.
A fast-moving car can move up to 200 km/h. When a 3GPP system is used to
control their movement, the time to determine their position and the reaction
time must be short to avoid collisions with its surroundings.
The positioning can rely on the 3GPP system completely, partly, or not at all,
but the action based on the position must be acted upon fast. If we assume
that the required accuracy for car\'s position equal or less than 1 m, the
two-way delay for positioning is 10-15 ms.
#### 5.4.2.2 Higher accuracy positioning with low speed moving (including
indoor and outdoor)
Jack's vehicle drives into a large shopping mall with maximum speed limit 20
km/h or 30 km/h and finds a parking place in underground parking lot. With a
location-based service, nearby available parking places can be precisely
located with the accuracy \<1 m.
When Jack walks around in the shopping mall, he can get instantaneously
multimedia discounts information of specific shop pushed by 3GPP network.
After finish shopping, Jack can get his car's precise location with the
location based service. And the recommended route from his location to the car
helps him find his car.
#### 5.4.2.3 Higher accuracy positioning for low altitude UAV in critical
condition
UAV (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle) will be widely used for delivery of packages
(e.g., a company plans to use UAVs to deliver goods), which improves delivery
efficiency. In a situation where first aid personnel cannot arrive promptly to
the scene of an emergency, UAVs could be used to collect video information on
site and deliver emergency equipment. And the UAV in flight also sends back
position information and other data from its carried sensor to the manipulator
simultaneously. Assisted by real-time image and information sent back by UAV,
manipulator at the console controls the UAV remotely flying through complex
terrain and landing at the exact site where the accident happens.
UAV\'s local vehicle collaboration can act as a mobile sensor network to
autonomously execute sensing tasks in uncertain and dynamic environments while
being controlled by a single user. Accuracy in sensing tasks is increased when
deploying a team of UAVs versus just one as there are multiple vantage points
using multiple sensors. Examples of uses for deploying a team of UAVs include:
\- Searching for an intruder or suspect
\- Continual monitoring of natural disasters
\- Performing autonomous mapping
\- Collaborative manipulation of an object (e.g., picking up corners of a net
or picking up a log)
#### 5.4.2.4 Higher accuracy positioning for mIoT
Consider the case of a warehouse, package delivery system, supplies registry,
or equipment tracker. Each item being tracked would need a periodic
identification indication communicated to a tracking application. A sensor
would be associated (e.g., physically attached) with each item. Sensors may be
manually or automatically activated when they are associated to the item. Upon
activation, each sensor identifies itself with the network and registers with
the sensor monitoring service or application. The communication from each
sensor would need to be reliable but not necessarily of high priority.
Communication would be predominately uplink, although some downlink
acknowledgements and commands may be sent. The tracking devices would be low
complexity, low powered, battery-powered sensors. Further, the sensors
configuration may vary from stationary and dense (e.g., in a warehouse) to
wide-spread and mobile but locally dense (e.g., delivery trucks). The sensor
should support multiple radio access technologies to ensure reachability as it
crosses access coverage boundaries, e.g., from the warehouse to the delivery
truck to the delivery location.
### 5.4.3 Potential requirements
[PR 5.4.3-001] The 3GPP system shall support higher accuracy location
capability less than [3 m] at [80 %] of occasions
\- In for services requiring a lower position accuracy (e.g., deliver dense
packages from a warehouse to a delivery truck then to a delivery location),
the 3GPP system should support high positioning accuracy (e.g., 0.5 m) in both
outdoor and indoor, along with high density of the location tracing devices up
to (e.g., 1 million devices per km^2^), and high mobility at minimum of 100
km/h.
NOTE: [80%] of occasions means the probability of achieving the accuracy in
total sampling.
[PR 5.4.3-002] The 3GPP system shall support location estimation of UE in less
than [10] seconds when the information is requested by user.
[PR 5.4.3-003] The 3GPP system shall support different configuration for
accuracy according to different service requirements.
[PR 5.4.3-004] Power consumption due to the continuous use of positioning
service shall be minimized.
[PR 5.4.3-005] The 3GPP system shall support co-existence with legacy 3GPP
positioning service and migration to higher accuracy positioning service.
## 5.5 Higher availability
### 5.5.1 Description
The use case family \"_higher availability_ \" is characterised by a high
system requirement for availability. In most cases the reliability, data
rates, and latency are moderate, and what matters most is that the coverage is
sufficiently wide.
One typical area where this type of communication is needed is when the
traditional cellular network is congested or damaged, or when its coverage is
not wide enough. An additional network layer, e.g., via direct mobile-to-
satellite links, can increase coverage.
### 5.5.2 Traffic scenarios
#### 5.5.2.1 Secondary connectivity
Wireless access is quickly becoming the primary mode of connectivity to access
services, content and information. Therefore, it is important that the access
to next generation 3GPP system is available to users at all times. In spite of
increased component reliability and built-in redundancies, there are occasions
when the terrestrial network fail, e.g., during disasters, network outages,
and users losing system access. It is important to ensure that a reliable
secondary wireless connection is available for the users to remain connected.
One way to provide such a connection is by enabling access to the 3GPP system
through satellite access.
#### 5.5.2.2 Disaster and Emergency Response
During times of disasters and emergencies, it is important that emergency
response teams have communications capabilities to coordinate and manage the
relief efforts across diverse groups and organizations. Besides natural
disasters, there are specific emergency situations/incidents that occur in
areas where there is no terrestrial coverage. Along with the general data
services, the next generation of public safety communication services (e.g.,
video and data) are also expected to evolve to require enhanced speeds
ubiquitously.
### 5.5.3 Potential requirements
[PR 5.5.3-001] The 3GPP system shall support connectivity using satellite
access.
[PR 5.5.3-002] The 3GPP system shall support service continuity when the user
terminal switches between satellite and terrestrial access.
## 5.6 Mission critical services
### 5.6.1 Description
The use case family of _Mission critical services_ covers those use cases in
3GPP TR 22.891 [2] that describe communications that are critical and need a
higher priority over other communications in the networks, and require some
means of enforcing this priority. Also use cases that provide coverage and
services in remote or catastrophe-stricken areas have been included.
The mission critical communications may need a higher priority over regular
traffic because it is used to control devices that have very high latency or
reliability requirements. Some other types of mission critical communications
may need a higher priority when the network is overloaded, e.g., fire brigade
personnel having a higher priority over other users on the site of the fire.
### 5.6.2 Traffic scenarios
#### 5.6.2.1 Prioritised communications
Users and traffic can have different priorities. System-wide support for
prioritisation is needed in several occasions
\- A user may need to access the network resources very quickly, possibly pre-
empting other users and traffic. Prioritised traffic may be allowed to use
simpler and faster access procedures than regular users.
\- A user may need to access the network resources even when the network is
congested, possibly pre-empting other users and traffic
\- A user may need to have guaranteed quality of service during the duration
of the communication, possibly pre-empting other users when requiring
resources is a new cell
The network also needs to support flexible means to make relative priority
decisions based on the state of the network (e.g., during disaster events and
network congestion) recognizing that the priority needs may change in time
during a crisis event. Flexibility needs to be provided to conform to operator
objectives and regional/national regulatory requirements.
#### 5.6.2.2 Isolated communications
In a traditional network different users and traffic in a network may need to
share the resources with each other. If there is no prioritisation in the
network, and even with prioritisation, it is possible that different users and
traffic negatively impact each other, even leading to important traffic being
slowed down or terminated. Isolating prioritised users and traffic from other
users and traffic makes it easier to offer a guaranteed level of service.
#### 5.6.2.3 Protected communications
Users and traffic have different security needs. If the network offers
different levels of security, related to identities, authentication,
authorisation, and encryption, it is possible to tailor the protection to meet
the requirements for different users and traffic.
#### 5.6.2.4 Guaranteed communications
Users and traffic have different requirements for guaranteed communications.
If the network offers different levels of resilience, availability, coverage,
and reliability, it is possible to tailor the success rate of the
communications to meet the requirements of different users and traffic. The
guaranteed communications can never be fully guaranteed but different levels
of guarantee can be offered, approaching the \"near 100 %\".
\- The connection can use a more efficient error correction to reduce the
error rates
\- The connection can use a higher power to reduce the error rates
\- The connection can use redundant links to reduce the error rates
\- The connection can use dedicated resources to reduce the error rates
\- The connection can use alternate access technologies to increase coverage
\- The connection can use alternative access technologies (e.g., satellite
access) to increase availability
\- The devices can communicate directly between themselves
\- The devices can communicate via an adhoc network infrastructure
\- The data can be delivered over efficient channels (e.g., multicast to a
large number of users)
#### 5.6.2.5 Optimised communications
Users and traffic have different requirements for optimising the
communications. If the network offers different architectural solutions to
deliver the services to the users, the network can optimise the
communications.
\- A user may need to access the services or data very quickly. Locating the
services and data close to the user allows faster access to them.
\- A user may move. Being able to relocate the services and data allows the
service to remain optimal.
\- A user may need to access vast data repositories and use massive computing
resources. Locating the services and data in a centralised location, e.g., in
the cloud, allows efficient deployments.
#### 5.6.2.6 Supported communications
When the availability of system resources is limited, either due to very high
traffic load or some resources being unavailable, e.g., due to a catastrophe,
the network must be able to cope with the situation. If the network allows the
tailoring of allowed services for different users, the network can operate and
still provide users with an acceptable level of service.
\- A regular user may have access only to basic services, e.g., voice,
messaging, and simple browsing.
\- Surveillance cameras in street corners may have access to video streaming
to provide visual information about the environment.
\- A fireman may have access to all services to operate efficiently at the
scene of an accident
\- A user may be allowed to access services of another network (e.g., without
a roaming agreement)
### 5.6.3 Potential requirements
[PR 5.6.3-001] The 3GPP system shall support the prioritisation of users and
traffic, during connection setup and when connected.
NOTE: Relative prioritization, pre-emption, and precedence of critical traffic
associated with certain priority services (e.g., MPS and Emergency) are
subject to regional/national regulatory and operator policies.
[PR 5.6.3-002] The 3GPP system shall support optimised signalling for
prioritised users and traffic.
[PR 5.6.3-002a] The 3GPP system shall allow flexible means to make and enforce
relative priority decisions among the different mission critical service
flows, as authorized by operator policy, used by third parties, i.e.,
authorized public safety users.
[PR 5.6.3-002b] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide a real-time dynamic
control function that adapts the prioritized access, QoS, and policies based
on various criteria (user status (e.g. location, emergency), network status
(e.g. congestion), service data (e.g. required QoS), and incident or other
dynamic data).
[PR 5.6.3-002c] The 3GPP system shall be able to support a QoS and policy
framework that can be communicated manually/automatically to/from non-3GPP
systems.
[PR 5.6.3-002d] The 3GPP system shall support efficient mechanisms to allow
the dynamic allocation of Priority, QoS and Policies for prioritised
communications based on real time network status data.
[PR 5.6.3-003] The 3GPP system shall support the allocation of resources
dedicated to certain users.
[PR 5.6.3-004] The 3GPP system shall support the isolation of dedicated system
resources from other system resources.
[PR 5.6.3-005] The 3GPP system shall support different levels of protection
for users and traffic.
[PR 5.6.3-006] The 3GPP system shall support different levels of resilience,
availability, coverage, and reliability to offer different levels of
guaranteed communications.
[PR 5.6.3-007] The 3GPP system shall support alternative access technologies
(e.g., satellite) to increase availability and coverage.
[PR 5.6.3-007a] The 3GPP system shall support direct device connections, also
for high data rates (e.g., 100 Mbps).
[PR 5.6.3-007b] The 3GPP system shall provide an enhanced multicast service
that provides equivalent coverage and latency performance to the unicast
service.
[PR 5.6.3-008] The 3GPP system shall support different service architectures
(e.g., locally, in the core network, and in the cloud).
[PR 5.6.3-008a] The 3GPP system shall support dynamic adaptation of the
service architecture.
[PR 5.6.3-009] The 3GPP system shall support different sets of supported
services for different user (e.g., based on the type of user)
[PR 5.6.3-010] The 3GPP system shall support the use of services of a network
without a roaming agreement.
# 6 Considerations
## 6.1 Considerations on security
The 3GPP system owned by a 3rd party (e.g., factory owner) shall support
network access using identities, credentials, and authentication that is
provided and managed by that 3rd party.
The 3GPP system owned by a 3rd party (e.g., factory owner) shall allow
confidentiality and integrity protection managed by that 3rd party.
The 3GPP system shall support an authentication process that can handle
alternative authentication methods with different types of credentials to
allow for different deployment scenarios such as industrial factory
automation.
The 3GPP system shall be able to provide means to verify whether a UE is
authorized to use prioritized access for transport of data for critical
service.
The 3GPP system shall support confidentiality and end-to-end integrity
protection for user data.
The 3GPP system shall be able to provide at least message integrity
protection.
## 6.2 Considerations on charging
The traffic scenarios did not contain any charging related aspects but it can
be assumed that
\- Dedicated networks may have dedicated charging solutions, or may have no
charging at all
\- High priority and low latency may be chargeable
## 6.3 Considerations on cross TR dependencies
While the four 3GPP TRs, 22.861 [8], 22.862, 22.863 [9], and 22.864 [10]
separately address certain characteristics of a 5G system, they cannot be
viewed as providing entirely standalone sets of potential requirements. In
addition to the charging and security considerations, there are a number of
other cross TR dependencies that must be accounted for. These include
specifically requirements related to 5G devices, identities, and access types
which may appear in one or more TR, but apply equally across others.
For example, use of the different access modes defined in 3GPP TR 22.861 [8]
may apply as well for the automation and drone scenarios found in 3GPP TR
22.862. Similarly, the KPIs defined in 3GPP TR 22.862 are applicable for other
IoT scenarios such as those described in 3GPP TR 22.861 [8]. The broadband
metrics defined in 3GPP TR 22.863 [9] are relevant to many scenarios in the
other three TRs. And of course, the functionality such as network slicing,
scalability, in-network caching defined in 3GPP TR 22.864 [10], can be useful
in meeting the KPIs for latency reduction and user density defined in 3GPP TRs
22.862 and 22.863 [9].
The cross TR dependencies need to be taken into account in developing
normative requirements based on the studies.
# 7 Consolidation of Potential Requirements
## 7.1 Introduction
The potential requirements in different use case families can be grouped in
various ways. The original categorisation into use case families may not have
been the best structure for deriving the final system requirements. Therefore,
the potential requirements have been categorised differently in this
consolidation.
## 7.2 Extreme industrial control
Extreme industrial control is characterised by very high requirements on the
communications system regarding latency, reliability, and availability. They
are usually deployed in geographically limited areas, access to them may be
limited to authorised users, and they may be isolated from networks or network
resources used by regular cellular customers.
NOTE 1: Transaction payloads are expected to be small, e.g., 50-100 bytes.
NOTE 2: The distances between devices and base stations are expected to be
short, e.g., 10-20 m.
NOTE 3: The service deployment is expected to be limited to a geographically
limited area, e.g., indoors.
[CPR 7.2-001] The 3GPP system shall support a very low end-to-end latency
(0,25 ms). [6]
[CPR 7.2-002] The 3GPP system shall support a very low jitter (1 μs). [6]
[CPR 7.2-004] The 3GPP system shall support a very high reliability (99,999
999 9 % on the application layer). [6]
[CPR 7.2-005] The 3GPP system shall support the prioritisation of critical
traffic over other traffic in the same network.
[CPR 7.2-006] The 3GPP system shall support the isolation of critical traffic
from other traffic in the same network.
[CPR 7.2-007] The 3GPP system shall support a very high availability (value
TBD).
[CPR 7.2-008] The 3GPP system shall support a very extensive coverage (value
TBD).
[CPR 7.2-009] The 3GPP system shall support local entity hosting the service
(e.g., close to RAN edge).
## 7.3 Conventional industrial control
Conventional industrial control is characterised by high requirements on the
communications system regarding latency, reliability, and availability. They
are usually deployed in geographically limited areas but also in wider areas
(e.g., city- or country-wide networks), access to them may be limited to
authorised users, and they may be isolated from networks or network resources
used by regular cellular customers.
NOTE 1: Transaction payloads are expected to be moderate, e.g., up to 1.521
bytes.
[CPR 7.3-001] The 3GPP system shall support very low end-to-end latency (1
ms). [5]
[CPR 7.3-002] The 3GPP system shall support a very low end-to-end low latency
(8 ms). [4]
[CPR 7.3-003] The 3GPP System shall be able to support a very fast
communication setup.
NOTE 2: A very low latency is almost useless with a long communication setup
delay. The communication setup delay plays a big role for devices that are not
always connected.
[CPR 7.3-004] The 3GPP system shall support a very high reliability (99,999
%). [4]
[CPR 7.3-005] The 3GPP system shall support high uplink and downlink data
rates (10 Mbps per device) in a dense environment. [5]
[CPR 7.3-006] The 3GPP system shall support the prioritisation of critical
traffic over other traffic in the same network.
[CPR 7.3-007] The 3GPP system shall support the isolation of critical traffic
from other traffic in the same network.
[CPR 7.3-008] The 3GPP system shall support a very high availability (value
TBD).
[CPR 7.3-009] The 3GPP system shall support a very extensive coverage (value
TBD).
[CPR 7.3-010] The 3GPP system shall support local entity hosting the service
(e.g., close to RAN edge).
## 7.4 Industrial automation
Industrial automation is characterised by high requirements on the
communications system regarding reliability and availability. They can be are
usually deployed in geographically limited areas, access to them may be
limited to authorised users, and they may be isolated from networks or network
resources used by regular cellular customers.
NOTE 1: Connection density is expected to be moderate, e.g., 1.000 active
devices per km2.
NOTE 2: Transaction payloads are expected to be small, e.g., 50-100 bytes.
[CPR 7.4-001] The 3GPP system shall support a low end-to-end latency of 25 ms
(value TBC).
[CPR 7.4-002] The 3GPP system shall support a high reliability (99,999 %,
value TBC).
[CPR 7.4-003] The 3GPP system shall support the prioritisation of critical
traffic over other traffic in the same network.
[CPR 7.4-004] The 3GPP system shall support the isolation of critical traffic
from other traffic in the same network.
[CPR 7.4-005] The 3GPP system shall support a very high availability (value
TBD).
[CPR 7.4-006] The 3GPP system shall support a very extensive coverage (value
TBD).
[CPR 7.4-007] The 3GPP system shall support low-power operation of devices
with transaction rates of one every few seconds (value TBC).
## 7.5 Human interaction
Human interaction is characterised by a human being interacting with the
environment or people, or controlling a device, and relying on sensory
feedback (touch, voice, and vision).
NOTE 1: Both gaming and eHealth require high quality video with very low
latency.
NOTE 2: Telemedicine often requires high bit rates in only one direction.
NOTE 3: Tactile internet does not require high bit rates.
[CPR 7.5-001] The 3GPP system shall support a very low end-to-end latency (0,5
ms). [7]
[CPR 7.5-004] The 3GPP System shall be able to support a very fast
communication setup.
NOTE 4: A very low latency is almost useless with a long communication setup
delay. The communication setup delay plays a big role for devices that are not
always connected.
[CPR 7.5-005] The 3GPP system shall support low-delay speech and audio coding
(10 ms, value TBC)).
[CPR 7.5-006] The 3GPP system shall support low-delay high-frame rate video
coding (10 ms, 120 fps, values TBC).
[CPR 7.5-007] The 3GPP system shall support very high uplink and downlink user
experienced data rates (250 Mbps, value TBC).
[CPR 7.5-008] The 3GPP system shall support high uplink and downlink data
rates (10 Mbps per device) in a dense environment. [5]
[CPR 7.5-009] The 3GPP system shall support the prioritisation of critical
traffic over other traffic in the same network.
[CPR 7.5-010] The 3GPP system shall support the isolation of critical traffic
from other traffic in the same network.
[CPR 7.5-011] The 3GPP system shall support a very high availability (value
TBD).
[CPR 7.5-012] The 3GPP system shall support a very extensive coverage (value
TBD).
[CPR 7.5-014] The 3GPP system shall support local entity hosting the service
(e.g., close to RAN edge).
## 7.6 Remote control
Remote control is characterised by a device being operated remotely, either by
a human or a computer.
NOTE 1: Devices may be airborne, at altitudes of, e.g., 10-1.000 m.
NOTE 2: The expected speed of the devices is expected to be high, e.g., 200
km/h.
NOTE 3: Required data rates are expected to be low.
[CPR 7.6-001] The 3GPP system shall support a low end-to-end latency (5 ms,
value TBC).
[CPR 7.6-002] The 3GPP System shall be able to support a very fast connection
setup.
NOTE 4: A very low latency is almost useless with a long communication setup
delay. The communication setup delay plays a big role for devices that are not
always connected.
[CPR 7.6-003] The 3GPP system shall support a high reliability (near 100 %,
value TBC).
[CPR 7.6-004] The 3GPP system shall support high uplink and downlink data
rates (10 Mbps per device) in a dense environment. [5]
[CPR 7.6-005] The 3GPP system shall support both direct 3GPP connection and
direct device connection.
[CPR 7.6-006] The 3GPP system shall support the prioritisation of critical
traffic from other traffic in the same network.
[CPR 7.6-007] The 3GPP system shall support the isolation of critical traffic
from other traffic in the same network.
[CPR 7.6-008] The 3GPP system shall support a very high availability (value
TBD).
[CPR 7.6-009] The 3GPP system shall support a very extensive coverage (value
TBD).
[CPR 7.6-010] The 3GPP system shall support local entity hosting the service
(e.g., close to RAN edge).
## 7.7 Prioritised communications
Prioritised communications is characterised by communications that has to be
treated with a higher priority compared to regular communications in the
network.
[CPR 7.7-001] The 3GPP system shall support a low end-to-end latency (10 ms).
[5]
[CPR 7.7-002] The 3GPP system shall support high uplink and downlink data
rates (10 Mbps per device) in a dense environment. [5]
[CPR 7.7-003] The 3GPP system shall support high throughput (10 Mbps). [5]
[CPR 7.7-004] The 3GPP system shall support very high reliability (99,999 % or
higher). [3][4]
[CPR 7.7-005] The 3GPP system shall support service continuity.
[CPR 7.7-006] The 3GPP system shall support connectivity using satellite
access.
[CPR 7.7-007] The 3GPP system shall support service continuity when the user
terminal switches between satellite and terrestrial access.
[CPR 7.7-008] The 3GPP system shall support dynamic resource utilization in
the cloud.
[CPR 7.7-009] The 3GPP system shall support high availability (approximately
100 % of the time on the road). [4]
NOTE 1: The device speed is relatively high, e.g. up to 120 km/h.
[CPR 7.7-010] The 3GPP system shall support local entity hosting the service
(e.g., close to RAN edge).
[CPR 7.7-011] The 3GPP system shall support the prioritisation of users and
traffic, during connection setup and when connected.
NOTE 2: Relative prioritization, pre-emption, and precedence of critical
traffic associated with certain priority services (e.g., MPS and Emergency)
are subject to regional/national regulatory and operator policies.
[CPR 7.7-012] The 3GPP system shall support optimised signalling for
prioritised users and traffic.
[CPR 7.7-013] The 3GPP system shall allow flexible means to make and enforce
relative priority decisions among the different mission critical service
flows, as authorized by operator policy, used by third parties, i.e.,
authorized public safety users.
[CPR 7.7-014] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide a real-time dynamic
control function that adapts the prioritized access, QoS, and policies based
on various criteria (user status (e.g. location, emergency), network status
(e.g. congestion), service data (e.g. required QoS), and incident or other
dynamic data).
[CPR 7.7-015] The 3GPP system shall be able to support a QoS and policy
framework that can be communicated manually/automatically to/from non-3GPP
systems.
[CPR 7.7-016] The 3GPP system shall support efficient mechanisms to allow the
dynamic allocation of Priority, QoS and Policies for prioritised
communications based on real time network status data.
[CPR 7.7-016] The 3GPP system shall support the allocation of resources
dedicated to certain users.
[CPR 7.7-017] The 3GPP system shall support the isolation of dedicated system
resources from other system resources.
[CPR 7.7-018] The 3GPP system shall support different levels of protection for
users and traffic.
[CPR 7.7-019] The 3GPP system shall support different levels of resilience,
availability, coverage, and reliability to offer different levels of
guaranteed communications.
[CPR 7.7-020] The 3GPP system shall support alternative access technologies
(e.g., satellite) to increase availability and coverage.
[CPR 7.7-021] The 3GPP system shall support direct device connections, also
for high data rates (e.g., 100 Mbps).
[CPR 7.7-022] The 3GPP system shall provide an enhanced multicast service that
provides equivalent coverage and latency performance to the unicast service.
[CPR 7.7-023] The 3GPP system shall support different service architectures
(e.g., locally, in the core network, and in the cloud).
[CPR 7.7-024] The 3GPP system shall support dynamic adaptation of the service
architecture.
[CPR 7.7-025] The 3GPP system shall support different sets of supported
services for different user (e.g., based on the type of user).
[CPR 7.7-026] The 3GPP system shall support the use of services of a network
without a roaming agreement.
# 8 Conclusion and Recommendations
The study on critical communications has identified several scenarios where 4G
networks cannot meet all the requirements. Some of the requirements are simple
to quantify, usually related to latency, often with low data rates. There are
also requirements that are partly solved by system design and deployment,
related to reliability, availability, and coverage.
Normative work should be started to support the consideration (clause 6) and
consolidated potential requirements (clause 7).
Requirements related to higher accuracy positioning have not been confirmed.
Further work on positioning requirements is needed.
###### ### Annex A: Public Safety use cases
# A.1 Description
This section aims at providing public safety use cases for 5G for informative
purpose. This work provides a first overview of public safety needs for 5G and
may be reused in future work.
# A.2 Use cases
## A.2.1 Public Safety Lifeline
In many cases, public safety responders are called upon to enter disaster
areas within enclosed spaces, such as burning buildings, collapsed mines,
sinking ships, and subway tunnels.
According to the \"NGMN 5G White Paper\" [5] section 3.2.1, sub-clause xvii:
Public Safety - The public safety organisations will need enhanced and secure
communications. This, for instance, will include real time video and ability
to send high quality pictures. The main challenge is to ensure (ultra)
reliable communication over the entire footprint of the emergency services
including land, sea, air, in-building and some underground areas such as
basements and subway systems. It will also require priority over other traffic
(in networks shared with other users), ability for direct communication
between devices, and high security.
In these situations distributed antenna systems, WiFi and other in-building
communication systems may not be functioning properly. It is necessary for
responders to have a method for reliable communications, even if at minimal
levels. In these situations the employed radios need to work under a
potentially very large path loss, yet still provide prompt delivery of media.
Both network mediated and direct device to device communications are
envisioned.
## A.2.2 Public Safety Situational Awareness
During missions the public safety officer relies on different sources of
information: today it is mainly guidance from a GPS or directions from the
control room. Tomorrow, with the widespread use of video and many kinds of
sensors deployed, public safety tools will be able to process relevant data
locally or in a distant server, in order to provide operational guidance to
the public safety officer. For instance, a fireman could be directed to an
injured person in a fire or in a place where an explosion happened. Another
example is a police pursuit in the dark, in which case the officer has to be
provided with complete guidance in real time.
During an operational situation, the public safety officer needs to
concentrate on the action and not on the tools. That is why augmented reality
through a helmet or glasses are can become important ways of providing
information directly in the vision field of the public safety officer.
Within the timeframe of 5G, the public safety officer is expected to rely
heavily on advanced analytics in order to \"digest\" the environment and
produce relevant audio and visual feedback. An example of such application is
an augmented reality overlay in a heads-up display and audio. This information
may be generated by a large central processing hub operating on continuously
updating input from fixed sensors; another possible source can be a 4π
steradians video and audio from the public safety officer. This type of
application may require a very high uplink bit rate in order to transfer the
video and audio data to the central processing hub. As an example, the service
may have to be able of uplink transfer of 100 Mpixel picture each second
(\"high quality\" Q = 50 JPEG) plus five-microphone HD audio and of downlink
transfer of 1 Mb audio/visual annotated file each second.
## A.2.3 Mobile Edge computing/Local data processing
To reduce the amount of data being transmitted during operations and to
improve response time, it is desirable to perform decentralized / local
processing (e.g., facial recognition) whenever practical.
## A.2.4 Global data integration
### A.2.4.1 Integration of heterogeneous data
Many new businesses will appear in the 5G ecosystem. Some businesses will be
segmented and it may also become desirable to segment different types of
communications to different stakeholders. In public safety, there is a need to
prioritize, aggregate and consolidate together many kinds of data. The
correlation of data may be also required at control room or locally.A.2.4.2
Integration of mission critical and administrative data
In addition to mission critical applications, public safety organizations also
have administrative type (i.e. non mission critical) of applications that are
also useful in everyday life. It would be logical to use the same transmission
networks for both mission critical and non-mission critical applications,
assuming the proper support for priority, pre-emption and QoS is in place.
## A.2.5 Multimedia command and control over wide area in resilient mode
There number of distant groups who need to communicate and collaborate with
each other is on the rise. Broadband fixed and mobile networks allow for
distant control rooms. Depending on the special skills required, operations
may be controlled from far away. In some cases, there will be a need for
virtual control room made of people who are not in the same physical room and
may actually be located far away from each other.
As a consequence, if a good set of decisional information needs to be
concentrated in a given point of the network, this point may be location
independent and people accessing this information may be remotely located.
The capability needs to be designed in such way that the concentration of
information at some location will not decrease the global system resiliency.
## A.2.6 Tactical networks and autonomous networks integration
We expect a wide use of autonomous private and public networks. They can
provide a solution for wide coverage complementing the traditional government
sponsored networks. The 5G will enhance the possibility of autonomous
networks.
For example, let us suppose that we have an incident in a plant. There are
separate dedicated networks for the building security and for the building
automation system (e.g. to manage the opening and closing of the elevator
doors). We further assume that the building security network has been broken
by the incident. In response to the incident, a fire brigade tactical network
is brought in and used for firemen communications, but it will also get access
to local sensors and the building automation network.
## A.2.7 Public Safety Air-to-Ground
Use of helicopter and fixed-wing aircraft is common in many public safety
theatres. Air-to-ground communication is relatively straightforward in
narrowband land-mobile radio systems where the frequency reuse distances tend
to be large, for example, many tens of kilometres. Air-to-ground is more
complicated in broadband systems such as 3GPP LTE because all sites use the
same frequencies leading to potentially widespread interference between the
aircraft and the ground-based receivers. Likewise, the signal-to-noise ratio
at the airborne receiver is low since it is line-of-site to so many base
transmitters. These problems can be avoided by the use of dedicated spectrum
but it may be impractical to dedicate spectrum to public safety air-to-ground.
Further, it is important to maintain interoperability between the ground and
airborne segments suggesting that use of the same radio access technology is
preferable.
## A.2.8 Device-to-Device video and broadband data service
Public safety relies on device-to-device (D2D) for communications in areas
where network coverage has not been deployed, such as some rural areas, in
areas where network coverage is normally available but is temporarily disabled
by, for example, a disaster, or in-buildings, tunnels, mines, etc., where
network coverage may exist but be very weak. 3GPP has provided D2D service for
voice in LTE Release 13.
Voice is the most valuable service to public safety responders but the
usefulness of voice only service may be limited. Therefore it is desirable for
video and other data-intensive services, such as situational awareness, to be
supported in D2D with a range similar to what is used for D2D voice service.
#