# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
Emerging from the FS_SMARTER work [2], the present document aims to identify
and document the key families of use cases **and their consolidated potential
requirements, and to capture desired system requirements and capabilities to
support the needs of new services and markets related to** massive Internet of
Things.
The focus of this work is on the use cases and requirements that cannot be met
with EPS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 22.891: \"Feasibility Study on New Services and Markets Technology
Enablers; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TR 22.864: \"Feasibility Study on New Services and Markets Technology
Enablers - Network Operation\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.278: \"Service requirements for the Evolved Packet System
(EPS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**3GPP connection:** The connection between a device and a 3GPP network.
**Active communication:** a UE is in active communication when it has one or
more connections established. A UE may have any combination of CS connections
or PS connections (e.g., PDP contexts, active PDN connections).
**Device:** An entity that is identifiable in the 3GPP network and that is
capable of communicating with wired and/or a wireless connection, using
  * direct device connection, and/or
  * direct 3GPP connection, and/or
  * indirect 3GPP connection.
NOTE: A UE is a particular type of Device, containing the UICC domain and the
ME Domain.
**Direct 3GPP connection:** One mode of 3GPP connection, where there is no
relay UE between the device and the 3GPP network.
**Direct device connection:** The connection between two devices without any
network entity in the middle.
**Indirect 3GPP connection:** One mode of 3GPP connection, where there is a
relay UE between the device and the 3GPP network. Indirect 3GPP connection is
established using at least one direct device connection and at least one
direct 3GPP connection.
**Relay UE:** a UE that is capable of relaying communications to and from the
network for other devices.
**Service continuity:** The uninterrupted user experience of a service that is
using an active communication when a UE undergoes an access change without, as
far as possible, the user noticing the change.
NOTE 1: In particular Service Continuity encompasses the possibility that
after a change the user experience is maintained by a different
telecommunication service (e.g., tele- or bearer service) than before the
change.
NOTE 2: Examples of access changes include the following. From pre-5G: CS/PS
domain change. From 5G: switching between a direct 3GPP connection and an
indirect 3GPP connection.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5G 5^th^ Generation
IoT Internet of Things
MIoT Massive Internet of Things
# 4 Overview
Among the use cases developed in the FS_SMARTER study [2], there are a group
of use cases with massive number of devices (e.g., sensors, wearables) with a
wide range of characteristics and demands. This group of use cases are
particularly relevant to the new vertical services, such as smart home/city,
smart utilities, e-Health and smart wearables.
**This group includes different application scenarios:**
\- Internet of Things
Large numbers of devices with non-time critical data transfer, some very
simple and some very complex, are members of this family. Some specific
aspects also need to be considered, including efficiency of security and
device configuration.
\- Smart wearables (Personal Area Network)
The use of wearables consisting of multiple types of devices and sensors
becomes mainstream. Some common attributes can be observed in this key family
of use cases, such as low complexity and high battery life, high reliability,
and some may also require high data rates.
\- Sensor networks
Smart services will become pervasive in urban areas, and usage will also grow
in suburban and rural areas. The aggregation of all these services leads to
very high density of devices with very different characteristics expected to
be combined in a common communication and interworking framework. Depending on
the specific use cases, very low complexity devices with very long battery
life may be required.
The following key families are identified in order to consolidate the
potential requirements for the massive Internet of Things application
scenarios:
\- Operational aspects
\- Connectivity aspects
\- Resource efficiency aspects
# 5 Use Case Families
## 5.1 Operational aspects
### 5.1.1 Description
#### 5.1.1.1 Overview
The Massive Internet of Things introduces new operational considerations to a
3GPP system. While some support for IoT will be provided by current systems,
there is room for improvement in the operational aspects that can be designed
into a 5G system whereas they are not easily retrofitted into an existing
system. This family includes the operational aspects that will apply to the
wide range of devices and services anticipated in the 5G timeframe. These
aspects are derived from the use cases included in [2] and cover security
needs for IoT as well as support for network servers/applications and devices
to identify, address and reach each other.
#### 5.1.1.2 Internet of Things security aspects
With the diversity of device types and access interfaces anticipated in the
Internet of Things, a security mechanism needs to be designed to meet the
service requirements, user and access requirements and deployment models.
Since smart devices are expected to support multiple radio access technologies
such as 3GPP RAT and non-3GPP RAT, with both access network for 3GPP RAT and
access network for non-3GPP RAT connected to the same mobile core network, the
core network will need to support authentication methods appropriate to the
respective access network to allow a seamless user experience across multiple
access networks.
Some of the devices are expected to be simple sensor kind of devices,
potentially without user interfaces. In addition, as devices are expected to
be used and managed (e.g., the device owner may sell the device to another
user who can then use the device with a subscription to their own network
operator) by end users a method of dynamic subscription generation and
management is needed in addition to statically provisioned subscription. Once
the subscription is established, subscription management becomes necessary,
for example, to modify the subscription when the ownership of the device
changes, to update or refresh credentials due to suspected leakage or theft of
security keys or as a preventive measure, etc.
Another area which needs to be addressed is the proliferation of devices.
Devices come in large numbers with varied capabilities and mobility
requirements. When the device is manufactured, the deployment location and
specific usage may not be known. Sometimes the devices will be added to
existing subscriptions, other times they may be part of a new subscription for
the user. During their life cycle these devices go through different stages,
involving the change in ownership when the device is deployed and possibly
afterwards, the activation of the device by the preferred operator, a possible
change of operators, etc. These stages need to be managed securely and
efficiently.
### 5.1.2 Traffic scenarios
#### 5.1.2.1 Traffic scenario 1: lightweight device configuration
In the following traffic scenario, a very simple device (e.g., no IMS client)
is installed and activated for service. The device could be, for example, a
smart electric meter. It records electricity usage, provides up to the minute
usage reports that allow the customer to take advantage of time of day rating,
and provides a larger, complete report to the electric company once a month
The electric company deploys a large number of these smart meters within an
apartment building, one for each apartment.
The meter technician needs an efficient mechanism to quickly associate each
smart meter to the correct account (e.g., apartment number) and activate the
smart meter. This mechanism should allow the technician to immediately
activate transmission of electricity consumption data to enable real-time
tracking and charging for electricity used.
#### 5.1.2.2 Traffic scenario 2: variable data size
In the following traffic scenario, a video recorder is installed and activated
at a street corner. The video recorder includes a camera, some on-board
processing capability, as well as the ability to send information to the
traffic police.
The camera records continuous video, storing the content for some period of
time.
The device periodically sends a status update to the traffic police indicating
that traffic is moving smoothly.
When an accident occurs at the intersection, the device begins sending high
quality video to the traffic police of the accident and ensuing traffic
congestion.
The network will need the flexibility to provide efficient service to the
device at all times, whether a small or large amount of data is sent in a
given transmission. An efficient system could minimize any negative impact to
battery life for the device and minimize use of signalling resources.
The same device will need to establish a connection when it needs to transmit
a large amount of data (e.g., video).
#### 5.1.2.3 Traffic scenario 3: Internet of Things security
In the future it is expected that devices sold outside operators' channels
will likely not be preconfigured with operator-specific subscription
credentials. In the following traffic scenario an end user buys a 3GPP enabled
smart band or other device, which has not been preconfigured for any operator.
Having obtained a subscription (for the device), when the device tries to
connect to the 3GPP network there shall be a mechanism to get to the device
appropriate subscription credentials over the 3GPP network so that the device
is used in its intended way.
#### 5.1.2.4 Traffic scenario 4: farm machinery and leasing
Farm machinery is increasingly being automated. Tractors, harvesting machines,
and crop loaders autonomously drive through farms under close coordination,
alleviating the need for a human driver. Farm machinery can report various
sensor data, such as soil condition and crop growth, so that the farmer can
remotely monitor the farm condition and control machinery. The data gathered
helps with crop predictions and planting plans. Compared to smartphones, farm
machinery have very long lifetimes (in the order of 15 years) which makes it
essential to have technologies that will remain relevant or easily upgradeable
over a very long time frame. Moreover, farm machinery is often leased. Due to
these factors, flexible devices that can cope with various regions and
migration are desirable. Different renters may prefer different mobile
operators for service. It is therefore important to provide technologies that
facilitate easy switch between mobile operators.
#### 5.1.2.5 Traffic scenario 5: one user with multiple devices
When connectivity module gets cheaper, most things will include the
connectivity module. As a result, the number of connected devices belonging to
one user will also increase. The devices one user possesses can be grouped
into following two groups.
1) Group of mutually exclusive device: In this group of devices, at most one
device can be simultaneously activated. Typical example of this group is a
devices used for fashion item such as a smart watch or smart bracelet, etc.
For example, a user may possess several smart watches with different shapes
and colour. Because the user does not wear multiple watches at the same time,
only one of the watches needs connection to network.
2) Group of independent device: In this group of devices, each device can be
connected to network independent of connection status of other devices. For
example, a smart glass can be connected to network while a smart watch is
connected to network.
In this traffic scenario, the connectivity management (e.g., addition,
removal, activation, deactivation, etc.) of multiple devices should be simple
and straight-forward. From user experience point of view, it is not desirable
that a user is required to make a separate subscription for each device
whenever a device is bought, discarded or modified.
#### 5.1.2.6 Traffic scenario 6: one device with multiple users
Already in the market, many businesses are based on the concept of sharing
economy emerged (e.g., car rental services, where the same care is shared by
many people). As devices can be shared among people, a new model of providing
connectivity to devices is needed together with mechanism from prevention of
fraudulent access by unauthorized users.
#### 5.1.2.7 Traffic scenario 7: connection support by service provider
Control of connectivity based on authorization by the content or service
provider can serve various business models. A content or service provider may
be willing to pay for the cost of any type of connectivity used for traffic
delivery without requiring a user to use specific Apps. In one example,
utility company may pay for the traffic generated for the smart meters
installed in each house. In another example, traffic generated by a biometric
sensor used to track physical activities is paid by a fitness program
provider. In addition, the content or service provider may require the ability
to provide to the MNO specific connectivity requirements (e.g., QoS).
This traffic scenario can be further enhanced with out-of-the-box connectivity
provision. For the device manufactures or the service providers with global
presence, it is hard to know when and where their devices and services will
eventually be deployed and activated. Consequently, the manufacturer and the
providers will not be able to pre-provision the devices with PLMN specific and
IoT service specific information. In this case, rather than requiring a user
to manually provision the device, it would be better for the network to
provide connectivity to the UE as long as the device manufacture or the
service provider is willing to pay for the device. In fact, from a service
user point of view, for a device bought at the local store, the device should
be usable right away (i.e. out of the box) without any further user
involvement for the connection management.
When service provider pays for the connectivity service for the devices, it is
necessary to prevent fraudulent use of the provided connectivity. For that,
the network needs to filter out traffic other than for the intended service.
#### 5.1.2.8 Traffic scenario 8: communication between devices with multi-
vendors
In order for the Internet-of-Things not to become a collection of Intranets-
of-Things, reachability and addressability should be ensured across different
domains. There ideally should be an easy / common way to identify a particular
device and then use that identifier to reach and address the device,
independently from how the device is connected. In addition, devices from
different manufacturers should be able to communication with each other,
without any dependency on a specific service provider, a specific IoT
platform, a specific operating system or a specific application. I.e, a device
should be able to communicate with other device without any adaptation in the
middle.
In addition, device is typically limited in capability so that it may not
support IP protocol or may not be equipped with an IMS client, because more
processing power is needed to handle IP/IMS stack and more protocol overhead
is expected over radio interface. Thus, efficient communication between the
devices should be supported.
When the number of devices increases and when each device can be used by
different users, it should be easy and intuitive for a user to address each
device. For example, it may lead to bad user experience if a user has to
remember complex identifier whenever the user purchases new device or if he
has to know the identifier of a public device before he can use it.
While efficient communication between devices needs to be supported, delivery
of messages from unauthorized sources should be prevented.
### 5.1.3 Potential requirements
#### 5.1.3.1 Lightweight device configuration
[PR.5.1.3.1-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to support devices (e.g., smart
meter) with limited communication requirements and capabilities (e.g., devices
without an IMS client).
[PR.5.1.3.1-002] The 3GPP system shall minimize signalling for device
configuration (i.e., service parameters).
[PR.5.1.3.1-003] The 3GPP system shall support a resource efficient mechanism
to configure (e.g., service parameters) and activate multiple (e.g., all smart
meters in an apartment building) devices.
#### 5.1.3.2 Internet of Things security
[PR.5.1.3.2-001] The 3GPP system shall support a secure mechanism to remotely
provision a device that has not been pre-provisioned, with its 3GPP
subscription credentials.
#### 5.1.3.3 Variable data size
[PR.5.1.3.3-001] The 3GPP system shall minimize the signalling (e.g., for
security) that is required prior to user data transmission.
NOTE: The amount of signalling overhead may vary based on the amount of data
to be transmitted.
#### 5.1.3.4 Device relevance
[PR.5.1.3.4-001] The 3GPP system shall provide mechanisms to change the UE
subscription within the same operator and in between different operators.
#### 5.1.3.5 Diverse connectivity
[PR.5.1.3.5-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide means to dynamically
and seamlessly change the association between a subscription and a device.
[PR.5.1.3.5-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to support enhanced
authentication, authorization and charging mechanisms to support various types
of connectivity (e.g., subscribed, OTB or content-aware connectivity), with or
without the presence of operator credentials in the device.
[PR.5.1.3.5-003] Enhanced authentication mechanism shall be able to provide
efficient means to authenticate a user and a device (e.g., using biometric
information).
[PR.5.1.3.5-004] Enhanced authorization mechanism shall be able to provide a
user and a device with on-demand connectivity based on operator policy.
[PR.5.1.3.5-005] Enhanced charging mechanism shall be able to collect
charging-related information for enhanced authentication mechanism and
enhanced authorization mechanism.
#### 5.1.3.6 Multi-vendor communication
[PR.5.1.3.6-001] The 3GPP system shall support users, applications and devices
to register, identify, address and reach other devices, regardless of how each
device is connected to 3GPP network.
[PR.5.1.3.6-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide means for efficient
light-weight communication to and from devices (e.g., appliances, wearables,
vehicles).
## 5.2 Connectivity aspects
### 5.2.1 Description
As described in the Smart Wearables and Bio-connectivity related use cases in
[2], the Internet of Things will support various connectivity models. The
devices can connect with the network directly or connect with the network
using another device as a relay UE, or they may be capable of using both types
of connections. The devices can range from simple wearables, such as a smart
watch or a set of sensors embedded in clothing, to a more sophisticated
wearable device monitoring biometrics. They can also be non-wearable devices
that communicate in a Personal Area Network such as a set of home appliances
(e.g., smart thermostat and entry key), or the electronic devices in an office
setting (e.g., smart printers), or a smart flower pot that can be remotely
activated to provide water to the plant. The relay UE can access the network
using 3GPP or non-3GPP access networks (e.g., WLAN, fixed broadband access).
Essentially, one or more of the following connection models will apply for any
device. Figure 5.2-1 illustrates the connection models,
\- Direct 3GPP connection (e.g., a sensor that communicates with an
application server or with another device through 3GPP network)
\- Indirect 3GPP connection (e.g., a smart wearable that communicates through
a smart phone to the 3GPP network)
\- Direct device connection (e.g., a bio metric device that communicates
directly with other biometric devices or with a smart phone associated with
the same patient).
3GPP and non-3GPP RATs may be supported for connectivity scenarios. 3GPP RAT
over licensed band or unlicensed band may be supported for connectivity
scenarios.
{width="6.258333333333334in" height="3.4319444444444445in"}
Figure 5.2-1: Connectivity modes for devices
Various combinations of these connectivity scenarios will also need to be
supported, including the following.
\- Devices that can switch between a direct 3GPP connection and an indirect
3GPP connection
\- Devices that can switch between indirect connection using 3GPP RAT and
indirect 3GPP connection using non-3GPP RAT
\- Devices that only support a direct device connection (e.g., does not
support 3GPP connection)
\- Groups of devices that communicate among themselves using a direct device
connection, and also through an indirect 3GPP connection to the network
through one of the devices (e.g., personal area network, home office network)
An example of a combination connectivity scenario is a Personal Area Network
for biometric devices. Figure 5.2-2 illustrates a group of biometric devices
that communicate among themselves using a direct device connection and also
communicate with a 3GPP network through an indirect 3GPP connection. When used
in a hospital setting, the biometric devices may communicate with each other
and provide information to local display equipment for doctors and nurses to
monitor. However, these biometric devices do not need to operate only in a
direct device connection mode. When information needs to be uploaded to a
server, for example to update the patient's records, it can be done through a
relay UE. In this scenario, the relay UE will need to provide 3GPP connection
for multiple devices supporting only direct device connection.
{width="6.2875in" height="3.34375in"}
Figure 5.2-2: Connectivity modes for devices using the direct device
connection and the indirect 3GPP connection
Some additional scenarios might apply when a Personal Area Network of devices
(e.g., a person wearing several smart wearables) is in indirect 3GPP
connection mode:
\- A relayed device (e.g., smart watch) and relay UE can belong to the same
subscriber or different subscribers of the same PLMN.
\- A relayed device (e.g., smart watch) and relay UE can have subscriptions
associated with different PLMNs. This is a roaming case.
In either case, the relay UE needs to determine that the device is authorized
for an indirect 3GPP connection before a 3GPP connection is established. Both
devices also need to be authenticated with the network before the 3GPP
connection is established.
In all of the scenarios described above, key aspects for 5G include the
following:
\- Providing secure communications between the devices using direct device
connection and direct or indirect 3GPP connection,
\- Taking into consideration QoS when choosing connection mode and RAT,
\- Supporting the desired end user services, including real-time voice and
data,
\- Minimizing power consumption on devices,
\- Supporting roaming access to the network, whether the relayed device or a
relay UE is roaming,
\- Supporting multiple relayed devices behind a relay UE,
\- Providing service continuity for devices that switch between an indirect
3GPP connection and a direct 3GPP connection,
\- Providing service continuity for devices that switch from one indirect 3GPP
connection to another indirect 3GPP connection,
\- Ensuring devices using a direct device connection, or using a relay UE for
an indirect 3GPP connection, are authorized to do so,
\- Providing flexibility in the choice of RAT (e.g., 3GPP RATs, non-3GPP RATs)
used by the devices.
In each of the connectivity models, use of different type of access to the
network (3GPP and non-3GPP RAT), will imply different types of requirements:
\- Some requirements will be specific to devices connecting to the 3GPP system
through a 3GPP-RAT
\- Some requirements will be specific to devices connecting to the 3GPP system
through a non-3GPP RAT
\- Some general requirements will apply regardless of the RAT used for the
direct device connection or the 3GPP connection.
NOTE: Groups of devices that only communicate among themselves using direct
device connection over a non-3GPP RAT with no 3GPP connection do not need to
be considered in 3GPP.
### 5.2.2 Traffic scenarios
#### 5.2.2.1 Overview
In this section, we propose the traffic scenarios for the Connectivity Aspects
family. According to the description, there are several types of connectivity
aspects, including devices in a direct 3GPP connection mode, devices in an
indirect 3GPP connection mode and devices in a direct device connection mode.
According to these types of connectivity aspects, there are several traffic
scenarios. The traffic scenarios below use one device to access the relay UE
as an example. Actually, the relay UE can support more than one device to
access and relay their traffic to the network. In all cases of an indirect
3GPP connection, the device may communicate with the relay UE using either a
3GPP or a non-3GPP RAT. In all cases of a direct device connection, the
devices may communication with each other using either a 3GPP or a non-3GPP
RAT.
#### 5.2.2.2 Traffic scenario 1 of a device in direct 3GPP connection mode
The traffic scenario below is a device in a direct 3GPP connection mode. It
covers both cases, when the device is accessing its home network, and when the
device is roaming.
1) The device is accessing its home network, PLMN1.
2) The device is accessing a visited network, PLMN2. The PLMN1 and PLMN2 have
a roaming agreement.
When the device is in direct 3GPP connection mode, the 3GPP system should
support the real time services including real time voice (e.g., at least
24.4Kbps) and/or real time video (e.g., at least 1Mbps), and non-real time
services (e.g., at least 1Mbps).
{width="5.136805555555555in" height="3.7430555555555554in"}
Figure 5.2-3: Traffic scenario 1 of a device in direct 3GPP connection mode
#### 5.2.2.3 Traffic scenario 2 of a device in indirect 3GPP connection mode
In this scenario, the device and the relay UE belong to the same PLMN and have
the same or different subscriptions. The detail scenario is as follows:
1) The device has subscription A with PLMN1. The relay UE has the same
subscription A with PLMN1. The relay UE is accessing its home network, PLMN1.
2) The device has subscription A with PLMN1. The relay UE has the subscription
B with PLMN1. The relay UE is accessing its home network, PLMN1.
For the case where 3GPP RAT is used between a relay UE and a relayed device:
When the device is in indirect 3GPP connection mode, the 3GPP system should
support the real time services including real time voice (e.g., at least
24.4Kbps) and/or real time video (e.g., at least 1Mbps), and non-real time
services (e.g., at least 1M bps).
For the case where non-3GPP RAT is used between a relay UE and a relayed
device:
When the device is in indirect 3GPP connection mode, the 3GPP system should
support the real time services (e.g., real time voice and/or real time video)
and non-real time services.
{width="5.00625in" height="3.654166666666667in"}
Figure 5.2-4: Traffic scenario 2 of a device which is connected with network
via a relay UE
#### 5.2.2.4 Traffic scenario 3 of a device in indirect 3GPP connection mode
in the roaming case
In this scenario, the device and/or the relay UE is accessing a visited
network and have 2 cases. One is when the device is accessing a visited
network, and the other is when the relay UE is accessing a visited network.
The detail scenario is as follows:
1) The device has subscription A with PLMN1. The relay UE has the subscription
B with PLMN2. The relay UE is accessing a visited network, PLMN1.
2) The device has subscription A with PLMN2. The relay UE has the subscription
B with PLMN1. The device is accessing a visited network, PLMN1, via the relay
UE.
NOTE: The case where both the device and the relay UE are roaming is not
precluded.
The PLMN1 and PLMN2 have a roaming agreement.
For the case where 3GPP RAT is used between a relay UE and a relayed device:
When the device is in indirect 3GPP connection mode, the 3GPP system should
support the real time services including real time voice (e.g., at least
24.4Kbps) and/or real time video (e.g., at least 1Mbps), and non-real time
services (e.g., at least 1Mbps).
For the case where non-3GPP RAT is used between a relay UE and a relayed
device:
When the device is in indirect 3GPP connection mode, the 3GPP system should
support the real time services (e.g., real time voice and/or real time video)
and non-real time services.
{width="5.522916666666666in" height="4.022222222222222in"}
Figure 5.2-5: Traffic scenario 3 of a device in indirect 3GPP connection mode
in the roaming case
#### 5.2.2.5 Traffic scenario 4 of devices communication with each other in
direct device connection mode
In this scenario, each device has the same or its own subscription. The detail
scenario is as follows:
1) Device 1, device 2 and device 3 have the same subscription A.
2) The device 1 has subscription A. The device 2 has subscription B. The
device 3 has subscription C.
For the case where 3GPP RAT is used between a relay UE and a relayed device:
When the devices are in proximity [4], the devices can communicate with each
other using direct device connection mode using a 3GPP RAT. The devices
support the non-real time service (e.g., at least 1Mbps) for communication
with each other.
For the case where non-3GPP RAT is used between a relay UE and a relayed
device:
When the devices are in proximity, the devices can communicate with each other
direct device connection mode using a non-3GPP RAT. The devices support non-
real time service for communication with each other.
{width="4.983333333333333in" height="5.354166666666667in"}
Figure 5.2-6: Traffic scenario 4 of devices communication in direct device
connection mode
#### 5.2.2.6 Traffic scenario 5 of service continuity
For a device which supports direct 3GPP connection, indirect 3GPP connection,
or both the 3GPP system needs to support the service continuity when:
\- the device changes from a direct 3GPP connection to an indirect 3GPP
connection mode,
\- the device changes from an indirect 3GPP connection to a direct 3GPP
connection, and
\- the device changes from one relay UE to another in indirect 3GPP connection
mode.
For these types of devices the 3GPP system will need to support service
continuity for all the cases from case 1 to case 10 in Figure 5.2-7.
{width="4.606944444444444in" height="8.690972222222221in"}
Figure 5.2-7: Traffic scenario 5 of service continuity
### 5.2.3 Potential requirements
#### 5.2.3.1 General requirements
Requirements below are for all kinds of connectivity aspects, including
devices which support both direct and indirect 3GPP connection mode and
devices which support only indirect 3GPP connection mode. 3GPP RAT or non-3GPP
RAT can be used between the devices and relay UEs, in a licensed band or an
unlicensed band. 3GPP RAT or non-3GPP access networks (e.g., WLAN, fixed
broadband access) can be used between the relay UEs and the 3GPP network:
[PR.5.2.3-001] The 3GPP system shall support a device to access to the 3GPP
network in direct 3GPP connection mode.
[PR.5.2.3-002] The 3GPP system shall support a device to access to the 3GPP
network indirectly via a relay UE when the device and the relay UE can
communicate in direct device connection mode.
[PR.5.2.3-003] The 3GPP system shall have the means to authorize a relay UE to
provide relay functionality to other devices.
[PR.5.2.3-004] A device shall determine the relay UE is authorized to serve as
a relay before the device uses the indirect connection to the 3GPP network via
the relay UE.
[PR.5.2.3-007] The 3GPP system shall support an indirect 3GPP connection where
a device and a relay UE subscribe to different PLMNs, when the PLMNs have a
roaming agreement.
[PR.5.2.3-008] A device which accesses the 3GPP network in direct 3GPP
connection mode or in indirect 3GPP connection mode, shall have a 3GPP
subscription.
[PR.5.2.3-009] The 3GPP system shall support real time services (e.g., real
time voice and/or real time video) for a device, whether the device is in
indirect 3GPP connection mode or in direct 3GPP connection mode.
NOTE: If the Relay UE is connected to the 3GPP core network via a non-3GPP
access network the above requirement is subject to capabilities of the
non-3GPP access network.
[PR.5.2.3-010] The 3GPP system shall support non-real time services for a
device, whether the device is in indirect 3GPP connection mode or in direct
3GPP connection.
[PR.5.2.3-011] The 3GPP system shall support service continuity for a device,
when the device changes relay UEs that are connected via 3GPP access to the
3GPP core network in indirect 3GPP connection.
[PR.5.2.3-012] The 3GPP system shall support service continuity for a device,
when the device changes from a direct 3GPP connection to an indirect 3GPP
connection via a Relay UE that is connected via 3GPP access to the 3GPP core
network, and vice versa.
[PR.5.2.3-013] The 3GPP system shall optimize the battery consumption of a
device, whether the device is in direct 3GPP connection mode or in indirect
3GPP connection mode.
[PR.5.2.3-014] The 3GPP system shall optimize the battery consumption of a
relay UE, via which a device is in indirect 3GPP connection mode.
[PR.5.2.3-015] The 3GPP system shall identify, address and reach a device,
when the device is in indirect 3GPP connection mode.
[PR.5.2.3-017] The 3GPP system shall support a relay UE providing an indirect
3GPP connection with the network for multiple devices.
[PR.5.2.3-018] The 3GPP system shall support selection of different
connectivity aspects (e.g., direct device connection, direct/indirect 3GPP
connection) to be used for a device.
[PR.5.2.3-019] The 3GPP system shall support flexible selection of different
RATs (e.g., 3GPP RATs, non-3GPP RATs) to be used for a device.
[PR.5.2.3-020] The 3GPP system shall support a timely, efficient, reliable and
secure mechanism to transmit the same information to multiple devices.
#### 5.2.3.2 Requirements specific to use of a 3GPP RAT
[PR.5.2.3-005] Devices shall determine they are authorized to engage in direct
device communication with each other upon establishing a direct device
communication using a 3GPP RAT.
[PR.5.2.3-016] The 3GPP system shall support end to end QoS for a device, when
the device is in indirect 3GPP connection mode.
NOTE: If the Relay UE is connected to the 3GPP core network via a non-3GPP
access network the above requirement is subject to capabilities of the
non-3GPP access network.
#### 5.2.3.3 Requirements specific to use of a non-3GPP RAT
[PR.5.2.3-006] Before establishing a direct device communication using a
non-3GPP RAT, devices may use 3GPP credentials to determine if they are
authorized to engage in direct device communication.
## 5.3 Resource efficiency aspects
### 5.3.1 Description
5G introduces the opportunity to design a 3GPP system to be optimized for
supporting devices and services. While some support for IoT will be provided
by current systems, there is room for improvement in efficient resource
utilization that can be designed into a 5G system whereas they are not easily
retrofitted into an existing system. Some of the underlying principles of the
potential service and network operation requirements associated with efficient
configuration, deployment, and use of devices in the 5G next generation
network include bulk provisioning, resource efficient access, optimization for
device originated data transfer, and efficiencies based on the reduced needs
related to mobility management for stationary devices and devices with very
restricted range of movement.
The next generation network will need to be designed to be flexible and
elastic and adapt its resources and capabilities to the specific needs of the
services and applications being executed, as well as to the types of devices
accessing those services.
### 5.3.2 Traffic scenarios
#### 5.3.2.1 Bulk provisioning
Understanding the IoT use cases depicting devices being deployed in large
numbers in a given coverage area, a method by which they can be authenticated
without requiring the arduous task of provisioning individual devices with
identifiers and shared keys is required. The two characteristics that come
into play in this scenario are that 1) most likely the devices in a given
deployment are owned by same entity, and 2) the coverage area is limited
(e.g., warehouse, disaster area, etc.). Given this, the devices can be
provisioned and authenticated in bulk whereby they are treated as a single
device with many appendages.
Devices will range from very simple, limited function devices to very complex,
sophisticated computing platforms. On the lower end of the device function
range, not all such devices may use IMS and may not need to be equipped with
an IMS client, and yet it would still be desirable to activate such a device
remotely due to sensor deployment configurations. A light weight configuration
mechanism may be used to provide the configuration information to the device.
#### 5.3.2.2 Resource efficient access
Devices will have to operate in modes quite different from other types of 3GPP
UEs. First and foremost is that much of time the traffic will have low data
throughput and a low duty cycle. There may be no expectation of service
continuity. Devices may operate in a mode where all user plane traffic is
originated by the device, with no response required from the network. Yet
other devices may engage in both mobile and network originated communications.
These operational modes introduce opportunities for improving resource
efficiency in supporting access by devices to a 3GPP network.
#### 5.3.2.3 Diverse mobility needs of devices
Many devices will be stationary (e.g., smart parking meters) or have a limited
range of mobility (e.g., smart household or office devices). Once activated,
the location of these devices can be expected to remain the same, or move
within a very limited area. For these types of devices, there are
opportunities to reduce the use of mobility management resources compared to
those required for EPS. The 5G system should be designed to consider the
different mobility management needs of devices.
#### 5.3.2.4 Device support for discovery mechanism
Many devices will interact with each other (e.g., e-health devices,
wearables). A clear example of a device that will be needed of discovery
mechanisms is a printer connected to the 5G network.
In the case a user would need to use this printer, the user needs to discover
the printer and its functionalities before being able to use it (apart for any
authorization mechanism which is out of scope of this traffic scenario). This
discovery mechanism can be announcing mode (the printer announces itself in
the network and the user listens to these messages) or scanning mode (the
printer reacts to requests from the user).
In the announcing mode, a printer will be sending to the network every certain
period of time (e.g., 30 sec) messages where it announces that the device it
is a printer, characteristics of the printer and also exposes interfaces to
use this printer. These messages must be treated in an efficient way by the
network (e.g., minimizing signalling, forwarding messages to the correct group
of user and not to the whole network).
### 5.3.3 Potential requirements
#### 5.3.3.1 Bulk provisioning
[PR.5.3.3.1-001] The 3GPP system shall support a resource efficient mechanism
to provide service parameters and activate groups of devices.
[PR.5.3.3.1-002] The 3GPP system shall support high density massive
connections (e.g., 1 million connections per square kilometre) of grouped
devices in an efficient manner.
[PR.5.3.3.1-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to support devices, including
groups of devices, (e.g., smart meter) with limited communication requirements
and capabilities.
[PR.5.3.3.1-004] The 3GPP system shall support a resource efficient mechanism
for device configuration (i.e., service parameters).
[PR.5.3.3.1-005] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism which provides an
appropriate and efficient authentication mechanism for groups of devices.
#### 5.3.3.2 Resource efficient access
[PR.5.3.3.2-001] The 3GPP system shall minimize resources usage for infrequent
data transfer from devices which send information without requiring a response
(e.g., send status information to an application but do not need to receive
information from the application).
[PR.5.3.3.2-001a] The 3GPP system shall minimize resources usage for transfer
of infrequent small data units.
[PR.5.3.3.2-002] The 3GPP system shall support a resource efficient mechanism
to provide service parameters to devices.
[PR.5.3.3.2-003] The 3GPP system shall support a resource efficient mechanism
to activate groups of devices.
[PR.5.3.3.2-004] The 3GPP system shall support significantly increased device
power efficiency over what is supported by EPS.
[PR.5.3.3.2-005] The 3GPP system shall support significant coverage
enhancement over what is supported by EPS.
[PR.5.3.3.2-006] The 3GPP system shall support a resource efficient mechanism
to provide information to a stationary device (e.g., simplified device
location mechanism).
[PR.5.3.3.2-007] The 3GPP system shall provide a resource efficient mechanism
to receive information from stationary devices (e.g., lower signalling to user
data resource usage ratio).
#### 5.3.3.3 Resource efficiencies for mobility management
The 5G mobility management requirements included in [3] clause 5.3.2 apply for
minimizing resource usage in support of devices. In addition to those
requirements, the following are specific to devices.
[PR.5.3.3.3-001] The 3GPP system shall provide efficient support for devices
with restricted range of mobility (e.g., within a warehouse).
[PR.5.3.3.3-002] The 3GPP system shall provide resource efficient support for
stationary devices with reduced mobility management (e.g., handover support,
idle mode mobility management).
#### 5.3.3.4 Resource efficiency for variable data size
[PR.5.3.3.4-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to efficiently and flexibly
support any size of data transmissions (e.g., from a few bits to streaming
video) from the same device.
[PR.5.3.3.4-002] The 3GPP system shall minimize the signalling that is
required prior to user data transmission.
NOTE: The amount of signalling overhead may vary based on the amount of data
to be transmitted.
#### 5.3.3.5 Resource efficiency for discovery mechanisms
[PR.5.3.3.5-001] The 3GPP system shall efficiently support service discovery
mechanisms where devices can discover:
\- status of other devices (e.g., sound on/off);
\- capabilities of other devices (e.g., the device is a relay device) and/or;
\- services provided by other devices (e.g., the device is a colour printer).
# 6 Considerations
## 6.1 Considerations on security
### 6.1.1 General
[PR.6.1-001] The 3GPP network shall support end-to-end integrity protection
and confidentiality for data transmitted between the core network and a device
when the device is in indirect 3GPP connection mode.
[PR.6.1-001a] The 3GPP network shall support end-to-end integrity protection
and confidentiality for signalling transmitted between the core network and a
device when the device is in indirect 3GPP connection mode.
[PR.6.1-002] The 3GPP network shall support a resource efficient mechanism to
authenticate a device when the device is in indirect 3GPP connection mode.
[PR.6.1-002a] The 3GPP network shall support a resource efficient mechanism to
authorize a device to use an indirect 3GPP connection.
[PR.5.2.3-004] A device shall determine the relay UE is authorized to serve as
a relay before the device uses the indirect connection to the 3GPP network via
the relay UE.
[PR.5.2.3-005] Devices shall determine they are authorized to engage in direct
device communication with each other upon establishing a direct device
communication using a 3GPP RAT.
[PR.5.2.3-006] Before establishing a direct device communication using a
non-3GPP RAT, devices may use 3GPP credentials to determine if they are
authorized to engage in direct device communication.
[PR.5.1.3.2-001] The 3GPP system shall support a secure mechanism to remotely
provision a device that has not been pre-provisioned, with its 3GPP
subscription credentials.
[PR.5.1.3.3-001] The 3GPP system shall minimize the signalling for security
that is required prior to user data transmission.
[PR.5.1.3.5-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to support enhanced
authentication and authorization mechanisms to support various types of
connectivity (e.g., subscribed, connectivity), with or without the presence of
operator credentials in the device.
[PR.5.1.3.5-003] Enhanced authentication mechanism shall enable an operator to
provide efficient means to authenticate a user and a device (e.g., using
biometric information).
[PR.5.1.3.5-004] Enhanced authorization mechanism shall be able to provide a
user and a device with on-demand connectivity based on operator policy.
[PR.5.1.3.6-001] The 3GPP system shall provide a capability for users,
applications and devices to register, identify, address and reach other
devices, regardless of how each device is connected to 3GPP network.
### 6.1.2 Group based security
[PR.5.3.3.1-005] The 3GPP shall support a mechanism which provides an
appropriate and efficient authentication mechanism for groups of devices.
[PR.5.2.3-020] The 3GPP system shall support a secure mechanism to transmit
the same information to multiple devices.
## 6.2 Considerations on charging
This section describes the requirements for collecting charging data for a
device. The requirements also apply in the roaming case.
[PR.6.2-001] The 3GPP core network shall support online and offline charging
for a device whether the device is in direct 3GPP connection mode or indirect
3GPP connection mode.
[PR.6.2-002] The 3GPP core network shall be able to separately identify the
charging data of a device from the charging data of a relay UE when the device
is in indirect 3GPP connection mode via the relay UE.
[PR.5.1.3.5-002a] The 3GPP system shall be able to support enhanced charging
mechanisms to support various types of connectivity (e.g., subscribed,
connectivity), with or without the presence of operator credentials in the
device.
[PR.5.1.3.5-005] Enhanced charging mechanism shall enable an operator to
collect charging-related information for enhanced authentication mechanism and
enhanced authorization mechanism.
## 6.3 Considerations on cross TR dependencies
While the four TRs, 22.861, 22.862, 22.863, and 22.864 separately address
certain characteristics of a 5G system, they cannot be viewed as providing
entirely standalone sets of potential requirements. In addition to the
charging and security considerations, there are a number of other cross TR
dependencies that must be accounted for. These include specifically
requirements related to 5G devices, identities, and access types which may
appear in one or more TR, but apply equally across others.
For example, use of the different access modes defined in TR 22.861 may apply
as well for the automation and drone scenarios found in TR 22.862. Similarly,
the KPIs defined in TR 22.862 are applicable for other IoT scenarios such as
those described in TR 22.861. The broadband metrics defined in TR 22.863 are
relevant to many scenarios in the other three TRs. And of course, the
functionality such as network slicing, scalability, in-network caching defined
in TR 22864, can be useful in meeting the KPIs for latency reduction and user
density defined in TRs 22.862 and 22.863.
The cross TR dependencies need to be taken into account in developing
normative requirements based on the studies.
# 7 Consolidation of Potential Requirements
## 7.1 Resource efficiency
### 7.1.1 General
[PR.5.1.3.1-002] The 3GPP system shall minimize signalling for device
configuration (i.e., service parameters).
[PR.5.1.3.3-001] The 3GPP system shall minimize the signaling that is required
prior to user data transmission.
NOTE: The amount of signaling overhead may vary based on the amount of data to
be transmitted.
[PR.5.1.3.4-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide mechanisms to change
the association between a subscription and address/number of a device within
the same operator and in between different operators in an automated way.
[PR.5.2.3-013] The 3GPP system shall support mechanisms to optimize the
battery consumption of a device.
[PR.5.2.3-014] The 3GPP system shall optimize the battery consumption of a
relay UE via which a device is in indirect 3GPP connection mode.
[PR.5.3.3.2-001] The 3GPP system shall minimize resources usage for infrequent
data transfer from send only devices which send information without requiring
a response (e.g., send status information to an application but do not need to
receive information from the application).
[PR.5.3.3.2-001a] The 3GPP system shall minimize resources usage for transfer
of infrequent small data units.
[PR.5.3.3.2-004] The 3GPP system shall support significantly increased device
power efficiency over what is supported by EPS.
[PR.5.3.3.4-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to efficiently and flexibly
support any size of data transmissions (e.g., from a few bits to streaming
video) to or from the same device.
[PR.5.3.3.1-002a] The 3GPP network shall support high density massive
connections (e.g.,1 million connections per square kilometre) of devices in an
efficient manner.
[PR.5.3.3.5-001] The 3GPP system shall efficiently support service discovery
mechanisms where devices can discover, subject to access rights:
\- status of other devices (e.g., sound on/off);
\- capabilities of other devices (e.g., the device is a relay device) and/or;
\- services provided by other devices (e.g., the device is a colour printer).
[PR.5.1.3.6-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide a means for
efficient light-weight communication to/from devices (e.g., appliances,
wearables, vehicles).
### 7.1.2 Bulk operations
[PR.5.3.3.1-002] The 3GPP network shall support high density massive
connections (e.g., 1 million connections per square kilometre) of grouped
devices in an efficient manner.
[PR.5.3.3.1-003] The 3GPP network shall be able to support devices, including
groups of devices, (e.g., smart meter) with limited communication requirements
and capabilities (e.g., devices without an IMS client).
[PR.5.3.3.2-002] The 3GPP network shall support a resource efficient mechanism
to manage (e.g., provide service parameters, activate, deactivate) devices,
including groups of devices.
### 7.1.3 Diverse mobility management
[PR.5.3.3.2-007] The 3GPP system shall support a resource efficient mechanism
to communicate with a stationary device (e.g., simplified mobility management,
lower signalling to user data resource usage ratio).
[PR.5.3.3.3-001] The 3GPP system shall provide efficient support for devices
with restricted range of mobility (e.g., within a warehouse).
[PR.5.3.3.3-002] The 3GPP system shall provide resource efficient support for
stationary devices with reduced mobility management (e.g., handover support,
idle mode mobility management).
## 7.2 Connection models
### 7.2.1 General requirements
Requirements below are for all kinds of connectivity aspects, including
devices which support both direct and indirect 3GPP connection mode and
devices which support only indirect 3GPP connection mode. 3GPP RAT or non-3GPP
RAT can be used between the devices and relay UEs, in a licensed band or an
unlicensed band. 3GPP RAT or non-3GPP access networks (e.g., WLAN, fixed
broadband access) can be used between the relay UEs and the 3GPP network:
[PR.5.2.3-002] The 3GPP system shall support a device to access to the 3GPP
network indirectly via a relay UE when the device and the relay UE can
communicate in direct device connection mode.
[PR.5.2.3-007] The 3GPP system shall support an indirect 3GPP connection where
a device and a relay UE subscribe to different PLMNs, when both PLMNs have a
roaming agreement with the VPLNM.
[PR.5.2.3-009] The 3GPP system shall support real time and non-real time
services (e.g., real time voice and/or real time video) for a device, whether
the device is in indirect 3GPP connection mode or in direct 3GPP connection
mode.
NOTE: If the Relay UE is connected to the 3GPP core network via a non-3GPP
access network the above requirement is subject to capabilities of the
non-3GPP access network.
[PR.5.2.3-011] The 3GPP system shall support service continuity for a device,
when the device changes from one relay UE to another and both relay UEs are
connected via 3GPP access to the 3GPP core network in indirect 3GPP
connection.
[PR.5.2.3-012] The 3GPP system shall support service continuity for a device,
when the device changes from a direct 3GPP connection to an indirect 3GPP
connection via a Relay UE that is connected via 3GPP access to the 3GPP core
network, and vice versa.
[PR.5.2.3-015] The 3GPP network shall identify, address and reach a device
with a 3GPP subscription when the device establishes an indirect 3GPP
connection mode.
[PR.5.2.3-017] The 3GPP system shall support a relay UE providing an indirect
3GPP connection with the network for multiple devices.
[PR.5.2.3-018] The 3GPP system shall support selection of different
connectivity aspects by the device (e.g., direct device connection,
direct/indirect 3GPP connection) to be used for the device.
[PR.5.2.3-019] The 3GPP system shall support flexible selection of different
RATs (e.g., 3GPP RATs, non-3GPP RATs) to be used for a device.
[PR.5.2.3-020] The 3GPP system shall support a timely, efficient, and reliable
mechanism to transmit the same information to multiple devices.
### 7.2.2 Requirements specific to use of a 3GPP RAT
[PR.5.2.3-016] The 3GPP network shall support end to end QoS for a device when
the device is in indirect 3GPP connection mode or direct 3GPP connection mode.
NOTE: If the Relay UE is connected to the 3GPP network via a non-3GPP access
network the above requirement is subject to capabilities of the non-3GPP
access network.
[PR.5.2.3-008a] A device which is able to access the 3GPP network in direct
3GPP connection mode using a 3GPP RAT shall have a 3GPP subscription.
[PR.5.2.3-017a] The 3GPP network shall be able to control 3GPP resources used
in the communication path between a device and network when the device is in
indirect 3GPP connection mode.
### 7.2.3 Requirements specific to use of a non-3GPP RAT
[PR.5.2.3-008b] A device which is able to connect to a UE in direct device
connection mode shall have a 3GPP subscription, if the device needs to be
identifiable by the core network (e.g., for device management purposes or to
use indirect 3GPP connection mode).
# 8 Conclusion and Recommendations
The Feasibility Study for Massive Internet of Things Technical Report analyses
a number of MIoT use cases from TR 22.891 [2], exploring the traffic scenarios
in greater details and proposing potential requirements based on those traffic
scenarios. The traffic scenarios cover three aspects of MIoT:
  * Operational aspects,
  * Connectivity aspects, and
  * Resource efficiency aspects.
Taking into consideration the use cases from TR 22.891 [2] and the traffic
scenarios described in clause 5, new potential requirements related to system
operations, connectivity models, and resource efficiencies for Massive
Internet of Things have been identified in clause 7 with additional potential
requirements for charging and security in clauses 6.
It is recommended to proceed with normative work.
The text of the present document will not be updated to align with normative
specifications.
#