# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
Emerging from the FS_SMARTER work [2], the present document aims to identify
and document the use cases **and consolidated potential requirements, and to
capture desired system requirements and capabilities to enable 3GPP network
operators to support the needs of enhanced mobile Broadband**.
The focus of this work is on the use cases and requirements that cannot be met
with EPS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
> [2] 3GPP TR 22.891: \" Feasibility Study on New Services and Markets
> Technology Enablers; Stage 1\".
[3] NGMN 5G White Paper v1.0
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Overview
Emerging from the SA1 FS_SMARTER study, this building block study aims to
identify and document the use cases and to consolidate the potential
requirements for the following families for the enhanced Mobile Broadband
scenario:
\- Higher Data Rates
\- This family focuses on identifying key scenarios from which eMBB primary
data rate requirements for peak, experienced, downlink, uplink, etc. data
rates can be derived, as well as associated requirements pertaining to latency
when applicable with UEs relative speed to ground up to 10 km/h (pedestrian).
\- Higher Density:
\- This family covers scenarios with system requirement for the transport of
high volume of data traffic per area (traffic density) or transport of data
for high number of connections (devices density or connection density) with
UEs relative speed to ground up to 60 km/h (pedestrian or users moving on
urban vehicle).
\- Deployment and Coverage:
\- This family covers scenarios with system requirement considering the
deployment and coverage scenario e.g. indoor/outdoor, local area connectivity,
wide area connectivity, with UEs relative speed to ground up to [120] km/h.
\- Higher User Mobility:
\- This family focuses on identifying key scenarios from which eMBB mobility
requirements can be derived, with UEs relative speed to ground up to 1000
km/h.
Devices with highly variable data rates
\- This family focuses on identifying key scenarios from which eMBB
requirements can be derived, for UEs having multiple applications which
exchange small amount of data and large amount of data.
The focus of this study is on the use cases and requirements that cannot be
met with EPS.
# 5 Use Case families
## 5.1 Higher Data Rates
### 5.1.1 Description
This family focuses on identifying key scenarios from which eMBB data rate
requirements can be derived.
### 5.1.2 Traffic scenarios
Editor's Note: This description comes from SMARTER TR22.891 section 5.5, 5.6,
5.56 with some additions to clarify the traffic scenario.
In an office scenario, users uses real-time video meeting and frequently
upload and download data from company's servers and they are various in size.
The productivity is dependent on the efficiency of the system response time
and reliability.
Dependent on time of day (e.g. morning, evening, weekday vs. weekend etc.) and
the location (e.g. shopping mall, downtown street), user expects multi-media
traffic upload and download towards internet as well as D2D communications.
A specific capacity consideration is also expected to enable support of
broadcast transmission of scheduled linear time Audio and Audio &Video
programmes, e.g. 4K UHD with 3GPP device capability.
An additional extension to capacity consideration for the virtual meeting user
scenario should also be catered for adding latency requirement.
In urban and rural areas residents are accustomed to fast wired Internet
access. To compete with wired offerings (e.g. cable), and to offer home
offices sufficient data rates, the 3GPP system must support peak data rates of
tens of Gbps and experienced data rates of up to 1 Gbps for residential users.
To simplify network planning and deployment, it should be possible to limit
the coverage for each subscription. Such approach is known as WLL (Wireless
Local Loop), where the last mile is delivered wirelessly.
### 5.1.3 Potential requirements
#### 5.1.3.1 Potential service requirements
For both indoor and outdoor scenario, and non-wide area coverage, the
following are expected:
Editor's notes: the potential requirements below from use case 5.6 need to be
confirmed
**[PR.5.1.3.1-001]** The 3GPP system shall support the user experienced data
rate up to [1] Gbps DL and 500 Mbps UL while the user is moving slowly up to
10 km/h.
**[PR.5.1.3.1-002]** The 3GPP system shall support the peak data rate per user
at [10] Gbps while the user is moving slowly up to 10 km/h.
Editor's notes: the potential requirements below from use case 5.56 need to be
confirmed
**[PR.5.1.3.1-003]** The 3GPP system shall be able to support user experienced
broadcast data rate up to [300Mbps] (e.g. video streams such as 4k UHD or 8k
UHD).
**[PR.5.1.3.1-004]** The 3GPP system shall be able to support at least [15]
broadcast channels of [20Mbps] each simultaneously over the same carrier.
NOTE: 4k UHD: 3840 x 2160, 50FPS, HEVC, 20\~30 Mbit/s (Medium quality), 4k
UHD: 3840 x 2160, 50FPS, HEVC, \~75Mbit/s (High quality), 4k UHD: 3840 x 2160,
50FPS, AVC \~ 150Mbit/s (High quality), 8K 7680*4320, 50FPS, HEVC, \~300Mbps
(High quality)
**[PR.5.1.3.1-005]** The 3GPP system shall be able to provide roundtrip delay
including coding/decoding in the magnitude of 10-12ms and be able to provide
bandwidth capable of running an 8k 3D video streaming [250Mbps] for uplink and
downlink.
NOTE: The above requirement is in a virtual presence scenario where composing
the "virtual meeting room" is located in the network.
NOTE: The requirement is running a stereo 8k video stream, the bitrate depends
on codec used
NOTE: There is a trade-off between very low latency and modest bandwidth
requirement vs. modest latency and high bandwidth requirement pending on where
the composing of the virtual meeting stream is located.
**[PR.5.1.3.1-006]** The 3GPP system shall support residential deployment with
high peak [10s of Gbps] and experienced data rates [up to 1 Gbps].
**[PR.5.1.3.1-007]** The 3GPP system shall support residential deployment with
a latency of [10 ms].
#### 5.1.3.2 Potential operational requirements
None.
## 5.2 Higher Density
### 5.2.1 Description
This family covers scenarios with system requirement for the transport of high
volume of data traffic per area (traffic density) or transport of data for
high number of connections (connection density).
One typical scenario enable users to upload and download a very high volume of
data from servers, handle high resolution real-time video conferences, etc.,
while end-users can be under indoor or outdoor and in a densely populated area
but with no high mobility needs i.e. up to 60 km/h in urban vehicular.
Editor's note: this family covers 3GPP TR22.891 use cases 5.5, 5.6, 5.7, 5.32.
### 5.2.2 Traffic scenarios
Editor's Note: This description comes from SMARTER TR22.891 sub-clauses 5.5,
5.6, 5.7, 5.32 with some additions to clarify the traffic scenario.
In an office scenario, users frequently upload and download data from
company's servers and uses interactive applications e.g. real time video
communications with colleagues. Users are expected to be indoor.
In a hotspot scenario with high user density, depending on time of day (e.g.
morning, evening, weekday vs. weekend etc.) and the location (e.g. pedestrians
in shopping mall, downtown street, stadium, users in buses in dense city
centre), there could be high volume and high capacity multi-media traffic
upload and download towards internet. Users can be either indoor or outdoor.
Meanwhile when a user is indoors, it is either stationary or nomadic; however,
when a user is outdoor it may travel slowly up to 60 km/h.
Mobile broadband scenario is to be provided even when terminals enter areas
with a high traffic density.
### 5.2.3 Potential requirements
#### 5.2.3.1 Potential service requirements
Editor's notes: the potential requirement below from use cases 5.5 and 5.6
need to be confirmed
**[PR.5.2.3.1-001]** The 3GPP system shall support the aggregate traffic
volume in the area at least the level of Tbps/ km^2^ to support case of
traffic for pedestrians (up to 10 km/h) and users in urban vehicle (up to 60
km/h), in 200-2500 /km2 connection density.
Editor's notes: the potential requirements below from use case 5.7 need to be
confirmed
**[PR.5.2.3.1-002]** The 3GPP system shall provide guaranteed per user
experience for mobile broadband like live video in areas with a high UE
density which requires user experienced data downlink rate of 300Mbps and
uplink rate of 50Mbps in 200-2500 /km2 connection density.
**[PR.5.2.3.1-003]** The 3GPP system shall provide guaranteed user experience
for mobile broadband services like live video in areas with a high UE density
which requires user experienced data downlink rate of 120Mbps and uplink rate
of 50Mbps in 200-2500 /km2 connection density with user velocities in the
range of 0-60 km/h.
#### 5.2.3.2 Potential operational requirements
None.
## 5.3 Deployment and Coverage
### 5.3.1 Description
This family covers scenarios with system requirement considering the
deployment and coverage scenario e.g. indoor/outdoor, local area connectivity,
wide area connectivity.
Editor's note: this family covers 3GPP TR22.891 use cases 5.5, 5.10, 5.11,
5.30, and 5.71.
### 5.3.2 Traffic scenarios
### 5.3.2.1 Small Area Connectivity
Editor's note: the text below is imported (and slightly edited) from use case
5.5. The office scenario is also covered from use case 5.11
Small area connectivity covers e.g. an office scenario where the users and
their serving nodes are expected to be deployed indoors. In an education
environment virtual presence can give a remote student real time 360° video
communication with their classmates and teacher. The coverage area per each
serving node is small. In office, users do real-time video meeting and
frequently upload and download data from company's servers and they are
various in size which could be up to terabit of data. The productivity is
dependent on the efficiency of the system response time and reliability.
### 5.3.2.2 Wide Area Connectivity
Editor's note: the text below is imported (and slightly edited) from use case
5.10
As a basic scenario of mobile communications, the seamless wide-area coverage
scenario aims to provide seamless service to users. In future, mobile
broadband such as mobile cloud office, mobile cloud classroom, online
games/videos, and augmented reality, etc. will become more and more popular
and helpful. People expect mobile broadband is provided wherever they go, for
example, urban areas, rural areas. That is to say, mobile broadband is
provided in seamless wide-area coverage.
Satellite based access is one way to complement terrestrial based networks to
ensure ubiquitous, 100% geographic coverage. This is specifically true for
geographic areas where it is extremely difficult or in some cases impossible
to deploy terrestrial based access networks; for example, maritime services,
coverage on lakes, islands and mountains or other recreational areas that can
only be covered by the satellites.
### 5.3.2.3 Wireless Local Loop
In urban and rural areas residents are accustomed to fast wired Internet
access. To compete with wired offerings (e.g. cable), and to offer home
offices sufficient data rates, the 3GPP system must support peak data rates of
tens of Gbps and experienced data rates of up to 1 Gbps for residential users.
To simplify network planning and deployment, it should be possible to limit
the coverage for each subscription. Such approach is known as WLL (Wireless
Local Loop), where the last mile is delivered wirelessly.
### 5.3.2.4 Extreme coverage in low density areas
The provision of Broadband Access Everywhere over long distances for Low
density areas (extreme rural area) including both humans and machines shall be
supported. The key characteristics of this scenario are Macro cells with very
large area coverage supporting data rates (up to [2] Mbps for stationary
devices and up [384] kbps for moving devices), voice services and all
necessary control channels assuming a propagation distance of [100 km] and low
user density.
### 5.3.3 Potential requirements
#### 5.3.3.1 Potential Service Requirements
Editor's notes: the potential requirements below from use case 5.7 need to be
confirmed
**[PR.5.3.3.1-001]** For wide area coverage, the system shall support a
minimum experienced data rate per user for mobile broadband anytime and
anywhere, e.g., 100Mbps, with the user velocity up to 120 km/h.
**[PR.5.3.3.1-002]** For Extreme coverage in low population density areas, the
system shall support cells with very large area coverage for a propagation
distance of 100 km.
#### 5.3.3.2 Potential Operational Requirements
**[PR.5.3.3.2-001]** The 3GPP system shall enable support up to 100%
geographic area as part of wide area connectivity (one way shall be via
satellite access).
Note that the 100% geographic area refers to the entire area allowed to be
covered by the spectrum license and could be regional or global.
**[PR.5.3.3.2-002]** The 3GPP system shall support residential deployment with
service limited to a pre-defined geographic area.
## 5.4 Higher User Mobility
Editor's Note: This section is based on SMARTER TR sections 5.10, 5.29, 5.53.
### 5.4.1 Description
The family "Higher User Mobility" supports enhanced mobile broadband for
rapidly moving devices, for example the provision of internet to road vehicles
/ trains / aircrafts and its use for on-board entertainment and infotainment.
There are two ways to provide such mobile broadband to the fast moving users.
If an on-board base station (or a relay) is available, the cellular network
should be able to provide a high-rate link to such road vehicle / train /
aircraft. If not, the user equipment in fast moving road vehicles and trains
must have direct link to the cellular network.
### 5.4.2 Traffic scenarios
### 5.4.2.1 Enhanced mobile broadband in fast moving vehicles
In this scenario, enhanced mobile broadband is enabled seamlessly to the users
in fast moving road vehicles (up to 200 km/h). The example user applications
include in-vehicle entertainment, accessing the internet, enhanced navigation
through instant and real-time information, safety and vehicle diagnostics.
### 5.4.2.2 Enhanced mobile broadband in fast moving trains
In this scenario, enhanced mobile broadband is enabled seamlessly to the users
in fast moving trains (up to 500 km/h) in various regions for inter-city
transport. While travelling, passengers will use high quality mobile Internet
for information, interaction, entertainment or work. Examples are watching a
HD movie, gaming online, accessing company systems, interacting with social
clouds, or having a video conference.
5.4.2.3 Enhanced connectivity services in fast moving airplanes
In this scenario, enhanced connectivity services are enabled seamlessly to the
users in fast moving aircrafts (up to 1000 km/h). Typical aircraft routes are
up to 12 km in altitude, while other objects like helicopters will usually fly
at much lower altitudes. In these use cases the licensed mobile frequency
bands are used between aircrafts and ground.
The targeted User Experience KPI's and System Performance KPI's in the above
traffic scenarios are summarised in the table below:
Table 5.4.2-1: Example User Experience and System Performance KPI's [x]
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Traffic |** User | **Connection |** Traffic | | scenario**| Experienced | Density** | Density**| | | Data Rate** | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Mobile | DL: 50 Mbps | 2000 / km^2^ | DL: 100 Gbps / | | broadband in | | | km^2^ | | vehicles | UL: 25 Mbps | | | | (cars, | | | UL: 50 Gbps / | | trains): | | | km^2^ | | | | | | | up to 500 km/h | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Airplanes | DL: 15 Mbps | 80 per plane | DL: 1.2 Gbps / | | connectivity: | per user | | plane | | up to 1000 | | 60 airplanes | | | km/h | UL: 7.5 Mbps | per 18,000 | UL: 600 Mbps / | | | per user | km^2^ | plane | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 5.4.3 Potential requirements
**[PR.5.4.3-001]** The 3GPP system shall support mobile broadband to users in
fast moving road vehicles up to 200 km/h and trains 500 km/h and user
experienced data rate up to 50 Mbps per user at DL and 25 Mbps per user at UL.
**[PR.5.4.3-002]** The 3GPP system shall support mobile broadband to base
stations/relays in fast moving road vehicles up to 200 km/h and trains 500
km/h and user experienced data rate up to 50 Mbps per user at DL and 25 Mbps
per user at UL).
**[PR.5.4.3-003]** The 3GPP system shall support mobile broadband to users in
airplanes (up to 1000 km/h) and user experienced data rate up to 15 Mbps per
user at DL and 7.5 Mbps per user at UL).
**[PR.5.4.3-004]** The 3GPP system shall support enhanced connectivity
services to base stations/relays in fast moving airplanes (1000 km/h) with
enhanced user experience (user experienced data rate up to 15 Mbps per user at
DL and 7.5 Mbps per user at UL).
**[PR.5.4.3-005]** The 3GPP system shall be able to provide the mobile
broadband in fast moving road vehicles and trains (traffic density of up to
100 Gbps / km^2^ at DL, and 50 Gbps / km^2^ at UL).
**[PR.5.4.3-006]** The 3GPP system shall be able to provide fast moving
airplanes connectivity (traffic density of up to 1.2 Gbps / airplane at DL and
600 Mbps / plane at UL).
## 5.5 Devices with highly variable data rates
### 5.5.1 Description
Today's smartphones have multiple applications which frequently exchange small
amounts of data with the server side of the application. Typical examples in
current use are location updates and notifications. Larger amounts of data,
e.g. download or streaming are needed only occasionally.
In the future the smart phone may also serve as the gateway to, for example,
wearable sensors sending small messages on a periodic basis.
The network will need the flexibility to provide efficient service to the
device at all times, whether a small or large amount of data is sent in a
given transmission. Specifically, to support small amounts of data
efficiently, less signalling overhead would be needed before and after data
transmission. Such an efficient system could minimize any negative impact to
battery life for the device and minimize signalling overhead.
The same device may need to establish a connection when it needs to transmit a
large amount of data (e.g., video).
### 5.5.2 Traffic Scenarios
A device sends small amounts of data.
The system is able to accept data transmission without the necessity for a
lengthy and signalling intensive procedure.
As a result the system avoids both a negative impact to battery life for the
device and a wasting of signalling resources.
At other times the device needs to transmit or receive a large amount of data
(e.g., video) and may use an optimized procedure for the purpose.
### 5.5.3 Potential requirements
**[PR.5.5.3-001]** The 3GPP System shall be efficient and flexible for
transmission of both small and large amounts of data (e.g., streaming video)
from the same device.
**[PR.5.5.3-002]** The 3GPP system shall minimize signalling overhead e.g. for
security needed for transmission of small amounts of data without reducing its
level of security.
## 5.6 Fixed Mobile Convergence
### 5.6.1 Description
This use case family focuses on identifying key scenarios for leveraging the
5G network characteristics defined in TR23.863 SMARTER eMBB (high data rates,
low latency, high density, wide area coverage & low mobility) and TR22.864
SMARTER NEO (network slicing, efficient data plane & content delivery,
broadcast/multicast, policy control & charging, high availability and
security) to enable combined use of fixed broadband (e.g. FTTx/xDSL) access
and Next Generation Radio access network.
### 5.6.2 Traffic Scenarios
Today a large number of residential or business users rely on fixed broadband
(FTTx/xDSL) technology and MBB technology for accessing public Internet and
private networks for their day-to-day use. Users should be able to
intelligently combine both fixed and mobile access in a number of ways to meet
their future needs.
In the scenario where users need ultra-high data rates for future
applications, traffic originated to/from their devices in the home or in the
office should be able to send/receive across both fixed broadband and Next
Generation Radio access either simultaneously or individually. It may be
possible for the 3GPP system to specify network control policies to manage
fixed broadband and Next Generation Radio access as primary/secondary access
type and dependent on the type of applications, time-of-day, location, type of
user, type of end device and state of the network. User traffic may be
operator provided services, customer's own services (e.g. corporate) or third
party services (e.g. OTT).
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="2.6798611111111112in"}
Figure 5.6.2-1: Converged Access -- Single Operator Scenario
In additional to a single operator scenario, the solution should also include
the ability for two separate operators -- Operator A providing fixed access
and Operator B providing mobile access (with a relationship between them) to
provide a joint service offering.
{width="6.686805555555556in" height="2.964583333333333in"}
Figure 5.6.2-2: Converged Access -- Single Operator Scenario
  * Traffic Scenario 1 -- Simultaneous use of Next Generation Radio and fixed broadband access: This traffic scenario allows constant and simultaneous use of both fixed broadband access and Next Generation Radio access in such a way that the end result data rate is close to the sum of both fixed and 5G data rates (>90%). It is assumed that a common implementation of this functionality would be to only use the cellular access when it is required i.e. for traffic peaks, as a load-balancing mechanism, or as a top-up as per operator policy.
  * Traffic Scenario 2 -- 5G access as bandwidth boost: This traffic scenario allows the on-demand use of Next Generation Radio access to provide bandwidth boost to fixed broadband access. Users can trigger the bandwidth demand according to type of applications, time of day and type of UEs. This allows users to control their tariffs and increase their QoE. For Operators it enables the ability to increase revenues by upselling dynamic and temporary on-demand bandwidth for a specific time duration. As a minimum, users should have the ability select on-device turbo boost purchases via a smartphone app/webpage portal.
  * Traffic Scenario 3 -- 5G access as failover: Use of Next Generation Radio access as failover mechanism in the case where fixed broadband goes out of service.
  * Traffic Scenario 4 -- 5G access as fast provision: Use of Next Generation Radio access as fast provision service whilst users wait for their fixed broadband to be deployed or activated.
  * Traffic Scenario 5 -- Symmetric Bandwidth: This traffic scenario provides the end user with the same high data rates in the upstream direction as in the downstream direction. The faster uplink speeds can be used for cloud services, media and photo upload, etc.
### 5.6.3 Potential requirements
**[PR.5.6.3-001]** The 3GPP system shall be able to deliver the aggregate
throughput and speed of the FTTx/xDSL and Next Generation Radio access in both
UL and DL directions to all traffic types and 3rd party applications.
**[PR.5.6.3-002]** The 3GPP system shall support wide area coverage (urban and
rural) to enable the combined use of Next Generation Radio access and fixed
broadband access.
**[PR.5.6.3-003]** The 3GPP system shall support very high reliability to
enable the combined use of Next Generation Radio access and fixed broadband
access.
**[PR.5.6.3-004]** The 3GPP system shall support very high availability to
enable the combined use of Next Generation Radio access and fixed broadband
access.
**[PR.5.6.3-005]** The 3GPP system shall support very high density deployment
of the combined use of Next Generation Radio access and fixed broadband
access.
**[PR.5.6.3-006]** The 3GPP system shall support the use of common user
equipment (e.g. router hub at customer premises) that support Next Generation
Radio and fixed broadband access.
**[PR.5.6.3-007]** The 3GPP system shall support dynamic and static network
address allocation to the common user equipment over Next Generation Radio and
fixed broadband access.
**[PR.5.6.3-008]** The 3GPP system shall support all traffic types over the
combined use of Next Generation Radio access and fixed broadband access.
**[PR.5.6.3-009]** The 3GPP system shall support the option for Operators to
provide the same level of security over the FTTx/xDSL link as is provided over
the Next Generation Radio access link.
**[PR.5.6.3-010]** The 3GPP system shall support legal obligations and
accounting in the combined use of Next Generation Radio and fixed broadband
access.
**[PR.5.6.3-011]** The 3GPP system shall provide a generic protocol that has a
minimum overhead that can handle per packet or per flow scenarios.
**[PR.5.6.3-012]** The 3GPP system shall support a flexible geographical
distribution of the functional elements in the converged core and the operator
services platforms, allowing for the FMC scenarios described in this document
to be supported on any geographical deployment.
## 5.7 Femtocell deployments
### 5.7.1 Description
This use case family focuses on identifying key scenarios for leveraging the
5G network characteristics defined in TR23.863 SMARTER eMBB (high data rates,
low latency, high density, wide area coverage & low mobility) and TR22.864
SMARTER NEO (network slicing, efficient data plane & content delivery,
broadcast/multicast, policy control & charging, high availability and
security) to enable use of fixed broadband (e.g. FTTx/xDSL) access and Next
Generation Radio access network for femtocell deployments. The overall aim is
to deliver a seamless user experience to end users accessing operator services
across any access network, including Macrocellular as well as Femtocell access
over fixed broadband networks.
### 5.7.2 Traffic Scenarios
Today a large number of residential and business users rely on fixed broadband
(FTTx/xDSL) technology and MBB technology for accessing public Internet and
private networks for their day-to-day use. The 5G ecosystem will comprise of
Macrocells, Picocells and Femtocells. Residential and business Femtocells will
play a key role in providing 5G services to end users and will increase
capacity, density and availability. Fixed broadband technologies (FTTx/xDSL)
will be essential for Operators to provide backhaul capabilities for Femtocell
deployments. It should be possible for the 3GPP system to identify users, make
decisions about access type and provide a single set of services across both
fixed and mobile accesses.
It should be possible for an Operator to deploy any type of Small Cell,
including Femtocells, over fixed broadband service to the customer premises,
sharing traffic with e.g. public Internet or private VPN traffic. This should
be implemented in a manner where mobile broadband and fixed broadband traffic
can both be identified, anchored, policed, billed and managed in the same way
from a converged core network, as opposed to tunnelled through the fixed
broadband core network and managed by the mobile core network which is the
typical scenario in today's deployments. A consistent set of Value Added
Services should also be applied over fixed and broadband access regardless of
whether the customer is using the cellular or direct wired/wireless
connectivity to the fixed broadband router. Access to Local Area Network
services (e.g. peripherals, content servers) shall also be possible from the
Small Cell deployed in the Customer Premises.
{width="6.6819444444444445in" height="3.1979166666666665in"}
Figure 5.7.2-1: Femtocell Deployments
  * Scenario 1 -- Unified set of identities: In this scenario an Operator shall be able to manage a unified set of identities for a single user in order to consolidate subscriber data to allow seamless access across fixed and cellular access networks, including cellular access over fixed broadband as described in the scenarios section.
  * Scenario 2 -- Consistent set of policies: In this scenario an Operator may provide a consistent set of policies to a user/s across all networks (e.g. QoS and traffic management policies), including cellular access over fixed broadband as described in the scenarios section.
  * Scenario 3 -- Access to a single set of services: In this scenario once an Operator has identified a user, it may then grant that user access to a single set of services (e.g. VAS, parental controls, content, content optimisation and access to local services when appropriate) when using cellular, fixed or cellular over fixed broadband access as described in the scenarios section. This has the advantage for the Operator to consolidate services, and for the end user with regards to consistency of service offering across all access types.
  * Scenario 4 --Access Local Area Network Services: The end user shall be able to access local area network services (e.g. peripherals, content servers etc.) when connected to the Small Cell at the Customer Premises.
### 5.7.3 Potential requirements
**[PR.5.7.3-001]** The 3GPP system shall support use of common user equipment
(e.g. Femtocell at customer premises) that supports Next Generation Radio,
WiFi and fixed broadband access.
**[PR.5.7.3-002]** The 3GPP system shall support convergence of fixed and
mobile network in such a way that the converged core shall support 3GPP access
(Femtocell, Microcell & Macrocell) and other access technologies including
Wifi and fixed broadband access.
**[PR.5.7.3-003]** The 3GPP system shall support seamless mobility and service
continuity between Macrocell to Femtocell, Femtocell to Macrocell and
Femtocell to Femtocell.
**[PR.5.7.3-004]** The 3GPP system shall support service specific QoS
policies, i.e. a distinction between services which require a dedicated radio
resource (e.g. LTE dedicated bearer) or services which require prioritisation
over the non 3GPP access (e.g. a WMM session).
**[PR.5.7.3-005]** The 3GPP system shall support a unified set of identities
for a single user in order to consolidate subscriber data to allow seamless
access across fixed and cellular access networks, including cellular access
over fixed broadband.
**[PR.5.7.3-006]** The 3GPP system shall provide a consistent set of policies
to a user/s across all networks (e.g. QoS and traffic management policies),
including cellular access over fixed broadband.
**[PR.5.7.3-007]** The 3GPP system shall support identification of a user, the
ability to grant that user access to a single set of services (e.g. VAS,
parental controls, content, content optimisation and access to local services
when appropriate) when using cellular, fixed or cellular over fixed broadband
access.
**[PR.5.7.3-008]** The 3GPP system shall support the end user accessing local
area network services (e.g. peripherals, content servers etc.) when connected
to the Small Cell at the Customer Premises.
# 6 Considerations
## 6.1 Considerations on security
The 3GPP system shall minimize security signalling overhead needed for
transmission of small amounts of data without reducing its level of security.
The 3GPP system shall support the option for Operators to provide the same
level of security over fixed broadband access link as is provided over the
Next Generation Radio access link.
The 3GPP system shall support regulatory requirements in the combined use of
Next Generation Radio and fixed broadband access.
## 6.2 Considerations on charging
None.
## 6.3 Considerations on cross TR dependencies
While the four TRs, 22.861, 22.862, 22.863, and 22.864 separately address
certain characteristics of a 5G system, they cannot be viewed as providing
entirely standalone sets of potential requirements. In addition to the
charging and security considerations, there are a number of other cross TR
dependencies that must be accounted for. These include specifically
requirements related to 5G devices, identities, and access types which may
appear in one or more TR, but apply equally across others.
For example, use of the different access modes defined in TR 22.861 may apply
as well for the automation and drone scenarios found in TR 22.862. Similarly,
the KPIs defined in TR 22.862 are applicable for other IoT scenarios such as
those described in TR 22.861. The broadband metrics defined in TR 22.863 are
relevant to many scenarios in the other three TRs. And of course, the
functionality such as network slicing, scalability, in-network caching defined
in TR 22864, can be useful in meeting the KPIs for latency reduction and user
density defined in TRs 22.862 and 22.863.
The cross TR dependencies need to be taken into account in developing
normative requirements based on the studies.
# 7 Consolidation of Potential Requirements
**[CPR-7-001]** For wide area coverage, the system shall support a minimum
experienced data rate per user for mobile broadband services anytime and
anywhere, 100Mbps, for pedestrian users (up to [10 km/h]) and users in vehicle
(up to 120 km/h), except for very high connection density of **_150.000/km2
(e.g. stadium)_**
**[CPR-7-002]** The 3GPP system shall enable support up to 100% geographic
area as part of wide area coverage (one way shall be via satellite access).
Note that the 100% geographic area refers to the entire area allowed to be
covered by the spectrum license and could be regional or global.
**[CPR-7-003]** The 3GPP system shall support service limited to a pre-defined
geographic area for e.g. residential deployment.
**[CPR-7-005]** _For indoor users, in high connection density scenario
(__75000/km2)__(e.g. in hotspot), t_ he _3GPP system shall support user
experienced data rate up to 1 Gbps DL and 500 Mbps UL, resulting into traffic
density of 112,5 Tbps/km2 (UL+DL)._
**[CPR-7-006]** _For pedestrian users in a crowded area with very high density
([__150000/km2]__connection density, like in stadium with [__30000] users per
stadium_ _) t_ he _3GPP system shall provide user experienced data downlink
rate of 25 Mbps and uplink rate of 50Mbps, resulting into traffic density of
[12 Tbps/km2] (UL+DL)._
**[CPR-7-007]** The 3GPP system shall support the traffic density in the area
at least the level of Tbps/ km^2^ to support case of traffic for pedestrian
users and users in urban vehicle (up to 60 km/h), in 200-2500 /km2 connection
density _._
**[CPR-7-008]** _For stationary, pedestrian, and vehicular users, t_ he 3GPP
system shall be able to support experienced broadcast DL data rate up to 300
Mbps (e.g. video streams such as 4k UHD or 8k UHD).
**[CPR-7-009]** _For stationary, pedestrian, and vehicular users, t_ he 3GPP
system shall be able to support at least [15] broadcast channels of [20Mbps]
each simultaneously over the same carrier.
> NOTE: 4k UHD: 3840 x 2160, 50FPS, HEVC, 20\~30 Mbit/s (Medium quality), 4k
> UHD: 3840 x 2160, 50FPS, HEVC, \~75Mbit/s (High quality), 4k UHD: 3840 x
> 2160, 50FPS, AVC \~ 150Mbit/s (High quality), 8K 7680*4320, 50FPS, HEVC,
> \~300Mbps (High quality)
**[CPR-7-010]** _For pedestrian users in area with connection density lower
than [__200/km2]__(e.g. in office, residential, streets), t_ he 3GPP system
shall be able to support the user plane latency on the radio layer of 4ms for
UL and 4ms for DL.
**[CPR -7-010a]** For services like virtual meeting the target for the 3GPP
system shall be RTT user plane latency of 2-4ms when supporting:
\- low data rate in UL and corresponding 8k 3D [300Mbps] video stream in DL
and
\- low data rate in DL and corresponding up to 8k 3D [300Mbps] video stream in
UL.
**[CPR-7-011]** The 3GPP system shall support mobile broadband via direct
connection or via on-board base station relaying, to users in fast moving road
vehicles up to 200 km/h and trains 500 km/h and user experienced data rate up
to 50 Mbps per user at DL and 25 Mbps per user at UL, whatever user access
directly to the network or via a base stations relaying data transfer for all
users in the fast moving vehicles.
**[CPR-7-012]** The 3GPP system shall support mobile broadband via direct
connection or via on-board base station relaying, to users in airplanes (up to
1000 km/h) and user experienced data rate up to 15 Mbps per user at DL and 7.5
Mbps per user at UL), whatever user access directly to the network or via a
base stations relaying data transfer for all users in the airplane.
**[CPR-7-013]** The 3GPP system shall be able to provide the mobile broadband
in fast moving road vehicles and trains (traffic density of up to 100 Gbps /
km^2^ at DL, and 50 Gbps / km^2^ at UL).
**[CPR-7-014]** The 3GPP system shall be able to provide fast moving airplanes
connectivity (traffic of up to 1.2 Gbps / airplane at DL and 600 Mbps / plane
at UL).
**[CPR-7-015]** The 3GPP System shall be efficient and flexible for
transmission of both small and large amounts of data (e.g., streaming video)
from the same device.
**[CPR-7-016]** The 3GPP system shall minimize signalling overhead needed for
transmission of small amounts of data.
**[CPR-7-017]** The 3GPP system shall be able to deliver the aggregate
throughput with any traffic type, of the FTTx/xDSL and Next Generation Radio
access in both UL and DL directions to all traffic types and 3rd party
applications, with very high reliability, very high availability.
**[CPR-7-018]** The 3GPP system shall support the use of common user equipment
(e.g. router hub at customer premises) that support Next Generation Radio and
fixed broadband access.
**[CPR-7-019]** The 3GPP system shall support dynamic and static network
address allocation to the common user equipment over Next Generation Radio and
fixed broadband access.
**[CPR-7-020]** The 3GPP system shall support the option for Operators to
provide the same level of security and support regulatory requirements and
accounting over the FTTx/xDSL link as is provided over the Next Generation
Radio access link.
**[CPR-7-021]** The 3GPP system shall minimize overhead for data transfer.
**[CPR-7-022]** The 3GPP system shall support use of common user equipment
(e.g. Femtocell at customer premises) that supports Next Generation Radio,
WiFi and fixed broadband access.
**[CPR-7-023]** The 3GPP system shall support convergence of fixed broadband
access and mobile network (e.g. 3GPP access (Femtocell, Microcell & Macrocell)
and other access technologies including Wifi), with support of service
specific policies (e.g. QoS and traffic management policies), unified set of
identities for a single user. This allows to grant that user access to a
single set of services (e.g. VAS, parental controls, content, content
optimisation and access to local services when appropriate) when using
cellular, fixed or cellular over fixed broadband access.
**[CPR-7-024]** The 3GPP system shall support seamless service continuity
during mobility between Macrocell to Femtocell, Femtocell to Macrocell and
Femtocell to Femtocell.
**[CPR-7-025]** The 3GPP system shall support the end user accessing local
area network services (e.g. peripherals, content servers etc.) when connected
to the Small Cell at the Customer Premises.
Editor's Note: performances values may have to be modified during normative
step.
# 8 Conclusion and Recommendations
A number of use cases have been identified for eMBB service support over 3GPP
system:
\- Higher Data Rates
\- This family focuses on identifying key scenarios from which eMBB primary
data rate requirements for peak, experienced, downlink, uplink, etc. data
rates can be derived, as well as associated requirements pertaining to latency
when applicable with UEs relative speed to ground up to 10 km/h (pedestrian).
\- Higher Density:
\- This family covers scenarios with system requirement for the transport of
high volume of data traffic per area (traffic density) or transport of data
for high number of connections (devices density or connection density) with
UEs relative speed to ground up to 60 km/h (pedestrian or users moving on
urban vehicle).
\- Deployment and Coverage:
\- This family covers scenarios with system requirement considering the
deployment and coverage scenario e.g. indoor/outdoor, local area connectivity,
wide area connectivity, with UEs relative speed to ground up to [120] km/h.
\- Higher User Mobility:
\- This family focuses on identifying key scenarios from which eMBB mobility
requirements can be derived, with UEs relative speed to ground up to 1000
km/h.
\- Devices with highly variable data rates
\- This family focuses on identifying key scenarios from which eMBB
requirements can be derived, for UEs having multiple applications which
exchange small amount of data and large amount of data.
\- Fixed Mobile Convergence
\- This family focuses on identifying key scenarios to enable combined use of
fixed broadband (e.g. FTTx/xDSL) access and Next Generation Radio access
network.
\- Femtocell deployments
\- This family focuses on identifying key scenarios to enable use of fixed
broadband (e.g. FTTx/xDSL) access and Next Generation Radio access network for
femtocell deployments.
The study has resulted in a set of potential requirements as captured in the
section 6 and 7.
It is recommended that the requirements identified in this TR 22.863 are
considered as the basis for the development of normative requirements.
###### ### Annex A: Comparison of use cases
The Figure and tables below provide a comparison of use cases: Use cases from
eMBB families 1, 2 and 3 are in "black" text. New values are in "green",Use
cases from NGMN are in "blue" text.
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="3.14375in"}
Figure A-1: Comparison of use cases
Table A-1: eMBB use cases and NGMN use cases
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | MBB family | Higher Data | Higher | Deployment | | | | Rate | density | and | | | | | | Coverage | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Speed | Pedestrian | Pedestrian | Pedestrian | | | | (upto10 | or vehicle | or vehicle | | | | km/h) in | up to 60 | up to 120 | | | | small | km/h | km/h | | | | areas: | | | | | | offices, | | | | | | stadium | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Data Rate | Everywhere: | | Everywhere: | Everywhere: | | | minimum 100 | | minimum 100 | minimum 100 | | | Mbps ("DL" | | Mbps ("DL" | Mbps ("DL" | | | is missing) | | is missing) | is missing) | | | (NGMN: 50+ | | (NGMN: 50+ | (NGMN: 50+ | | | Mbps) | | Mbps) | Mbps) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | A) Peak | Experienced | Guaranteed | | | | rate: | rate | exper. | | | | 10 | (stadium) | rate: | | | | Gbps, | DL 25Mbps | 300Mbps | | | | | | DL/50Mbps | | | | experience | UL 50Mbps  | UL | | | | rate: | missing in | | | | | up to | eMBB TR | (same in | | | | Gbps | | NGMN) | | | | (value | Total 12 | | | | | | Tbps/km2 | Total: 1 | | | | missing) | (UL+DL) | Tbps/ km2 | | | | | | | | | | B | | | | | | ) Missing: | | | | | | | | | | | | experienced | | | | | | rate 1 | | | | | | Gbps | | | | | | DL, | | | | | | total | | | | | | 17 | | | | | | | | | | | | Tbps/km2 | | | | | | (UL+DL) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Density | A) Missing | 150000/km2, | 2 | 400 /km2 | | | : | 30 | 00-2500/km2 | connections | | | | 000/stadium | connections | (suburban) | | | \<200/km2 | | | | | | | | (in line in | 100/km2 | | | connections | | NGMN) | connections | | | | | | (rural) | | | B) | | | | | | 75000/km2 | | | | | | | | | | | | connections | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NGMN | A) Not in | matches | #1 | #4 "50+ | | category | NGMN | with #3 | "Broadband | Mbps | | | but in | "Broadband | access in | everywhere" | | | | Access in a | dense area" | | | | ITU-.M2083: | Crowd": | : | **[CP | | |**[CP | **[CP |**[ | R-7-001]**| | | R-7-004]** | R-7-006]**| CPR-7-007] | | | | | | + | | | | B) Matches | | [CP | | | | with | | R-7-008]** | | | | #2 | | | | | | "Indoor | | | | | | | | | | | | Ultra-high | | | | | | | | | | | | Broadband | | | | | | | | | | | | Access"**: | | | | | | [CP | | | | | | R-7-005]** | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#