# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document studies use cases and identifies potential requirements
for a Mission Critical Data Communications (MCData service). The MCData
Service can be used for public safety and security applications and also for
general commercial applications requiring critical availability or service
level (e.g., utility companies and railways.
As far as possible, the present document will reuse principles and definitions
defined for the MCPTT service.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies use cases and identifies potential requirements
for operation of the MCData service. MCData makes use of capabilities included
in Group Communications System Enablers for LTE (GCSE_LTE), Proximity based
Services (ProSe), and Isolated E-UTRAN Operation for Public Safety (IOPS) with
additional requirements specific to the MCData Service. The MCData Service can
be used for public safety applications and also for general commercial
applications (e.g., utility companies and railways).
As far as possible, the MCData service will reuse applicable elements from the
MCPTT service.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.179: "Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) over LTE"
[3] 3GPP TS 22.346: "Isolated Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
Network (E-UTRAN) Operation for Public Safety"
[4] 3GPP TR 22.879:"Feasibility Study on Mission Critical Video Services over
LTE
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
IOPS Isolated E-UTRAN Operation for Public Safety
MCPTT Mission Critical Push to Talk
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 Background
The general importance of mobile data communication to mission critical
organisations has been growing over the years and, as a result, mission
critical operations have become more and more depended on mobile data
communications. In addition, thanks to the development of messaging and data
transfer in commercial mobile networks, mission critical communication users
see more and more potential in data communications. As a consequence, there is
a need to extend group communications to support different media types.
So far mission critical organisations have been using a combination of
dedicated private networks and commercial services to cover their needs. With
their increasing demands for data they now look forward to one system
providing all the required services.
## 4.2 Mission Critical Data Communication
Mission Critical Data Communication provides a set of services and mechanisms
to mission critical users to allow reliable, predictable, secure and flexible
data communications during periods of normal- and of high network load.
The services provided by Mission Critical Data Communication include secure
individual and group based text and multi-media messaging.
The mechanisms provided by Mission Critical Data Communication allow
management and monitoring of data flows and provide application dependent,
user dependent and situation dependent data priority.
# 5 On network Use Cases
## 5.1 MCData affiliation process
### 5.1.1 Description
This use case provides a definition for affiliation.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
User A and user B are authorized users.
User A only wants to receive data (text file, pdf file etc...) for group X.
User B only wants to receive voice and simple text messages for group X.
### 5.1.3 Service Flows
User A affiliates to group X for MCData and MCPTT.
User B affiliates to group X for MCPTT only.
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
None.
### 5.1.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 5.1.6 Potential Requirements
The MCData service shall support an MCData user's ability to affiliate to one
or more MCData groups.
## 5.2 Air ground air communications (On network)
### 5.2.1 Description
This use case describes a air ground air communication for MCData.
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
User A is in an helicopter or a plane and is affiliated to every MCData
service.
### 5.2.3 Service Flows
User A uses MCData service in an helicopter or a plane as any other affiliated
user.
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
None
### 5.2.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 5.2.6 Potential Requirements
The MCData service shall provide air ground air communications.
Editor's note: additional requirements (e.g. on speed and altitude...) have to
be provided.
## 5.3 Large data distribution
### 5.3.1 Description
A robbery has taken place in one of the most important banks in the city
center. One of the security cameras at the bank has been able to record a
video where you can see the robbers and the car in which they scape. This
video is distributed to all the policemen on duty in an predetermined area, so
they have enough information in order to capture the thieves.
### 5.3.2 Pre-conditions
The policemen have subscriptions to LTE services and are members of a group.
### 5.3.3 Service Flows
A dispatcher selects the group the wants to send the video to and selects the
area in which to distribute the data.
The video data is broadcast to all police officers that are part of the group
and are within the geographic area.
### 5.3.4 Post-conditions
All members of the group within the geographic area received the video data.
### 5.3.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 5.3.6 Potential Requirements
The 3GPP network shall be able to broadcast data to group in an specific
geographic area.
The 3GPP network shall be able to broadcast data to group with an specific
priority.
## 5.4 Receiving and Transmitting Data and Voice
### 5.4.1 Description
This use case describes the process of an UE simultaneously transmitting and
receiving data and voice in one group. The scenario may be extended to
different groups.
### 5.4.2 Pre-conditions
User A/B/C and D are group members of group named Rescue and fire fighting
Team (Group R) and are affiliated to group R.
User B is the dispatcher in the control room.
User A/C and D are officers on the field.
### 5.4.3 Service Flows
1-User A is searching a shopping centre to find the survivals after a fire
disaster. He is in MCPTT group call communications with all members of the
team on the group R.
2-When searching at the third floor, user A hears a weak sound from the
children play centre. User A informs the team (including the dispatcher) using
MCPTT group communication that there may be a survival at the third floor and
send a picture to other members of the group.
3-User A requests the dispatcher to send a map of the children play centre
using MCPTT group communication. User B distributes the map of the children
play centre to all the members of the group so they can use it when helping to
find the survival.
4-From the map distributed by User B, User C finds that he is near the south
entry of the children play centre. User C tells User A that he will enter
children play centre from the south entry using the MCPTT group call
communication. User A and B communicate using the MCPTT group call
communication and rescues the survival corporately.
### 5.4.4 Post-conditions
None
### 5.4.5 Potential Requirements
The MCData Service shall allow an MCData UE to be receiving or transmitting
voice in an MCPTT Group Call while simultaneously receiving data.
The MCData Service shall allow an MCData UE to be receiving or transmitting
data while simultaneously receiving a voice.
## 5.5 Management of Different Combination of Voice and Data
### 5.5.1 Description
This use case describes how to manage different combinations of Voice and
Data. In the use case, Voice can also be replaced by Video, then Video and
Data can be transmitted and received simultaneously.
When the data is supported by MCData system in future, MCData system needs to
support combined media (voice and data) transmission simultaneously. An MCData
administrator shall be able to configure which type of media (voice or data)
can be transmitted to an MCData Group or an MCData Users (in case of MCData
Private Call). Administrator can also start or stop media data flow.
For an MCData Group, there would be normally three potential media types to be
supported by the MCData system and configured by the Administrator
  1. **Voice only:** no data can be transmitted or received;
  2. **Data only:** no voice can be transmitted or received;
  3. **Voice and Data:** both voice stream and data stream can be transmitted or received.
It is depicted in Figure 5.5-1 that 3 combination media types are configured
by an MCData Administrator.
{width="6.745833333333334in" height="3.702777777777778in"}
> Figure 5.5-1: Support for Different Media Types
### 5.5.2 Pre-conditions
User A, User B and User C support voice and data service.
User A, User B and User C are affiliated to an MCData group. An administrator
is ready to configure which media data flow can be transmitted to the MCData
Group, or to an MCData User in case of MCData Private Call.
There are three sub-scenarios for the use case.
Scenario 1: The MCData Administrator configures only voice to be transmitted
to an MCData Group, or to an MCData user.
Scenario 2: The MCData Administrator configures only data to be transmitted to
an MCData Group, or to an MCData user
Scenario 3:The MCData Administrator configures both voice and data to be
transmitted to an MCData Group, or to an MCData user
### 5.5.3 Service Flows
Scenario 1: User C transmits only voice to the group.
Scenario 2: User C transmits only data to the group.
Scenario 3: User C transmits both voice and data simultaneously.
### 5.5.4 Post-conditions
Scenario 1: User A and User B receive only voice.
Scenario 2: User A and User B receive only data.
Scenario 3: User A and User B receive voice and data simultaneously.
### 5.5.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
### 5.5.6 Potential Requirements
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism to integrate a MCData and MCVideo
Group transmissions.
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism for an MCData Administrator or
authorized user to configure which combination of media types (e.g., data and
voice) shall be transmitted to an MCData Group.
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism for an MCData Administrator or
authorized user to configure which combination of media types (e.g., data and
voice) shall be transmitted to an MCData User.
## 5.6 Concurrency of data and MCPTT service
### 5.6.1 Description
A group of public safety workers coordinated by a dispatcher use MCPTT to
communicate when performing an arrest task. In a MCPTT group call, the
dispatcher distributes a just received head portrait of the target to the
group. The portrait is presented to everyone in the group.
### 5.6.2 Pre-conditions
A MCPTT group call is ongoing. The UE of the dispatcher stores an image of the
head portrait of the target.
### 5.6.3 Service Flows
1\. The dispatcher selects an image of the head portrait of the target for
distribution to the group.
2\. The image is transmitted to each UE in the group.
### 5.6.4 Post-conditions
The group call continues.
### 5.6.5 Potential Requirements
The 3GPP network shall be able to support concurrency of a MCPTT group call
and mission critical data transmission to that group.
MCData service and MCPTT service shall be able to use the same service profile
(e.g. group membership) and capabilities (e.g. floor control).
3GPP system shall provide a mechanism to dynamically prioritize MCData over
MCPTT or vice versa.
## 5.7 Management of Different Sources of Data
### 5.7.1 Description
This use case describes how to manage different sources of Data (e.g, text,
file, or photo... ).
When multiple media sources are connected to a MCData Group, an MCData
Dispatcher shall be able to configure which data sources can be transmitted to
an MCData Group.
In an emergency case, the commander and MCData Group Members needs multiple
data sources from different sources to have more information around and have
better control and communication of the whole rescue team. So an MCData
Dispatcherneeds to configure which data sources can transmit data to the
MCData Group.
It is depicted in Figure 1 that 3 different data sources are connected to the
MCData Group.
In this case, the Administrator configure that the Area 3 data from source C
shall be transmitted to the MCData Group if they need these data information.
The Area 2 and Area 4 data D/E will not be transmitted to the MCData Group
while the media information is useless for current situation.
{width="6.747916666666667in" height="4.531944444444444in"}
Figure 5.7-1: Support for Different Data Sources
### 5.7.2 Pre-conditions
User A and User B are affiliated to the MCData Group X. Three different Data
Sources C, D, E are connected to the MCPTT Group X.
### 5.7.3 Service Flows
The Dispatcher of the MCData Group Xconfigures only Data Source C to be
transmitted to the MCData Group, then start transmitting data flow.
### 5.7.4 Post-conditions
User A and User B receive the data originated from Data Source C.
User A and User B cannot receive the data originated from Data Source D and
Data Source E.
### 5.7.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 5.7.6 Potential Requirements
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism for a dispatcher or authorized
user to configure which data sources shall be able to transmit data to an
MCData Group.
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism for a dispatcher or authorized
user to configure which data sources shall be able to transmit data to an
MCData User.
## 5.8 Situational awareness
### 5.8.1 Description
One of the largest factories of a city is on fire and a group of firemen has
arrived at the site to extinguish the fire and control the situation. People
are still inside the factory building so part of the team goes inside the
building to try to control and extinguish the fire from the inside and
evacuate the people that are trapped inside, while the other part of the team
tries to extinguish the fire from outside the building.
Every fireman is equipped with a situational awareness application that
registers parameters such as location, heart rate and air left in the
breathing equipment. These parameters are broadcast to the group and also to
the commander. Thanks to this application, a fireman can check who of the team
needs assistance. Also, the commander can check and monitor his team in detail
in order to decide the best strategy to handle the situation or to act in case
some emergency occurs to one person of the team.
## 5.8.2 Pre-conditions
All members of the group of firemen are authorized subscribers of MCData
service
All members of the group of firemen are affiliated to the same MCData group
### 5.8.3 Service Flows
Before entering the building, the fireman opens the situational awareness
applicationThe application asks for the group in which the fireman wants its
parameters to broadcast
The parameters of the fireman, together with his location, are broadcast to
the selected group continuously until the application is closed. The message
can contain any data e.g. a text message or a file.
### 5.8.4 Post-conditions
All members of the group receive the information and the location of the other
group members in near real time.
### 5.8.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 5.8.6 Potential Requirements
The MCData Ues shall be able to send data messages to other members of a
MCData group.
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism by which a user makes a one-to-
many data transmission in on network mode.
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism by which a user makes a one-to-
many data transmission in IOPS mode.
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism by which a user makes one-to-many
data transmission in off network mode.
## 5.9 Sending a multimedia message to another user (on network, off network,
IOPS)
### 5.9.1 Description
This use case describes simple multimedia message sending to another user.
### 5.9.2 Pre-conditions
User A and user B are authorized users.
### 5.9.3 Service Flows
User A sends message to User B. The message can contain any data: text,
message or file.
### 5.9.4 Post-conditions
User B receives the message.
### 5.9.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 5.9.6 Potential Requirements
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism by which a user makes a 1-to-1
data transmission in on network mode.
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism by which a user makes a 1-to-1
data transmission in IOPS mode.
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism by which a user makes a 1 to 1
data transmission in off network mode.
## 5.10.1 Managing data group communications (on network, off network, IOPS)
### 5.10.1 Description
This use case describes a data group conversation mechanism. The system will
provide a call identifier to build the link between messages of the same
conversation.
### 5.10.2 Pre-conditions
User A is affiliated to group G. User B is affiliated to group G.
### 5.10.3 Service Flows
User A sends message M1 to group G. The message can contain any data: text
message or file.
Message M1 is sent to any user affiliated to group G.
User B affiliated to group G sends an answer M2..
M2 and M1 can be the same or different type of media(e.g. M1 is pdf file, M2
is video file).
Any Group G affiliated member receives M2 as correlated to M1.
### 5.10.4 Post-conditions
Any Group G affiliated member is able to continue the conversation with a new
multimedia message NX minutes after the end of the last message.
After NX minutes a new conversation identifier will be created.
### 5.10.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
Group management and affiliation are described in MCPTT.
### 5.10.6 Potential Requirements
The data group communication service shall provide a mechanism to link
different multimedia messages in a one to many conversation.
The conversation will have a hang time [NX] after which the last message can
not be answered.
The MCData service shall provide a mean for an administrator to configure the
hang time.
The system shall be able to log any message and conversation in on network
mode.
The MCData service shall enable multiple concurrent conversations for the same
group.
## 5.11 Managing a one to one data communications (on network, off network,
IOPS)
### 5.11.1 Description
This use case describes a one to one data conversation mechanism. The system
will provide a call identifier to build the link between messages of the same
conversation.
### 5.11.2 Pre-conditions
A and B are authorized users.
### 5.11.3 Service Flows
User A sends message M1 to user B. The message can contain any data: text
message or file.
User B sends an answer M2 to user A.
M2 and M1 can be the same or different type of media(e.g. M1 is pdf file, M2
is video file).
User A and B are aware that M2 and M1 are part of the same conversation.
### 5.11.4 Post-conditions
Users A and B are able to continue the conversation with a new multimedia
message NX minutes after the end of the last message.
After NX minutes a new conversation identifier will be created.
### 5.11.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 5.11.6 Potential Requirements
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism to link different multimedia
messages in a one to one conversation.
The conversation will have a hang time after which the last message can not be
answered.
The MCData shall provide a mean for an administrator to configure the MCData
hang time.
The MCData service shall be able to log any message and conversation in on
network mode.
The MCData service shall enable multiple concurrent conversations for the same
user.
## 5.12 Multimedia message acknowledgement for group communications (on
network, off network, IOPS)
### 5.12.1 Description
This use case describes the need for automatic message acknowledgement.
### 5.12.2 Pre-conditions
User A is affiliated to group G. User B is affiliated to group G.
D dispatcher is affiliated to group G.
### 5.12.3 Service Flows
User A sends s multimedia message M1 to Group G asking for acknowledgement.
M1 is sent to any affiliated member of group G.
When receiving the message each affiliated member of group G UE sends back
automatically an acknowledgement to user A and dispatcher D.
### 5.12.4 Post-conditions
None
### 5.12.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
Group management and affiliation are described in MCPTT.
### 5.12.6 Potential Requirements
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism to send a "message delivered"
acknowledgement to the message sender and to one or more authorized MCData
users.
## 5.13 Multimedia message acknowledgement one to one (on network, off
network, IOPS)
### 5.13.1 Description
This use case describes the need for automatic message acknowledgement.
### 5.13.2 Pre-conditions
User A and user B are authorized users.
### 5.13.3 Service Flows
User A sends s multimedia message M1 to user B asking for acknowledgement.
M1 is sent to user B.
When receiving the message user B sends back automatically an acknowledgement
to user A.
### 5.13.4 Post-conditions
None.
### 5.13.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 5.13.6 Potential Requirements
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism to send a "message delivered" an
acknowledgement to the message sender.
## 5.14 Remote control
### 5.14.1 Description
There is a free concert on one of the squares in the center of the city
tonight and many people are trying to see it. The flood of people is causing
dangerous congestion on one of the roads leading to the city square where the
concert is held. Therefore the police officer in charge of crowd control takes
the decision to deviate people to other streets.
For this purpose, the police officer uses his mobile phone to set-up a data
communication with crowd control information panels placed on strategic
location. He loads a message to be displayed on the information panel,
instructing the crowd to follow alternative paths.
### 5.14.2 Pre-conditions
The crowd control officer is an authorized subscriber of LTE services.
The traffic information panel on the roads is provided with a UE with a
subscription to LTE services.
### 5.14.3 Service Flows
The crowd control officer starts an application on his UE to display
information on information panels.
The crowd control officer select a particular information panel from a list
The application on his phone establishes a data connection to the selected
information panel.
The crowd control officer types in the message he wants to appear in the
information panel.
The application on his phone sends the data to the information panel and
closes the data connection.
### 5.14.4 Post-conditions
The message typed in by the crowd control officer appears on the information
panel.
### 5.14.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 5.14.6 Potential Requirements
An MCData UE shall be able to establish data communication to another MCData
UE.
## 5.15 Command/control centre
### 5.15.1 Description
After a catastrophic situation (earthquake, bomb,...) all the emergency teams
(firemen, policemen, ambulances, ... ) are sent to help. Coordination is
necessary, so an incident commander takes control of the situation.
A commander/control truck arrives at the scene from which the incident
commander will command the different rescue/help teams and these teams will
report also to this commander/control truck. The truck contains a server which
runs a crisis management application. The different teams can post any
information or download information using this application.
### 5.15.2 Pre-conditions
The different rescue teams (policemen, firemen, ambulances, ...) are
authorized subscribers of LTE services.
The server in the command control truck is connected to the LTE network (it is
an UE with an authorized subscription of LTE services).
### 5.15.3 Service Flows
A policeman sets up an end to end data connection to the command/control
truck.
### 5.15.4 Post-conditions
The policeman has access to the crisis management application and can post and
download any information.
### 5.15.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 5.15.6 Potential Requirements
The MCData service shall support IP connectivity between an MCData UE and a
customer-operated server connected via mobile access.
## 5.16 Robots remote control (On network, off network, IOPS)
### 5.16.1 Description
This use case describes a need for engine remote control.
### 5.16.2 Pre-conditions
There is a field with mines. No human being can go on this field. Officer A
uses LTE network to remotely control robots to go in the field.
### 5.16.3 Service Flows
Officer A is not in the sight of the event. The robot sends images from
several cameras to the pilot through the LTE network. Officer A sends all
relevant data to control the engine with the required latency.
### 5.16.4 Post-conditions
None
### 5.16.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 5.16.6 Potential Requirements
The MCData service shall provide point to point communication to remotely
control robots.
The MCData service shall provide point to point communications to control an
unmanned aerial vehicle. For the control of an unmanned aerial vehicle, the
control latency shall remain under [50ms].
For aquatic and submarines vehicles, the control latency shall remain under
[200ms].
For terrestrial robots, the control latency shall remain under [400ms].
Note: At this stage of the user requirements work, the latency is an end-to-
end latency. The split between network latency and robot latency is left for
stage 2.The latency is measured between the action of the pilot and the
movement of the robot (not only MCData service).
The MCData service shall provide a mean to alert when the network is not able
to provide the required quality of service in [50ms].
## 5.17 Robots identification (On network)
### 5.17.1 Description
This use case describes a need for robots identification.
### 5.17.2 Pre-conditions
An unmanned aerial vehicle is flying above Paris.
### 5.17.3 Service Flows
Officer A is working in Paris and sees the engine. Officer A is an authorized
MCData user. Through the MCData service, Officer A knows to whom the engine
belongs. If authorized, according to its organization, officer A may get more
technical and operational information.
### 5.17.4 Post-conditions
Officer A has verified the engine is allowed to be here. If not, he launches
relevant operation.
### 5.17.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 5.17.6 Potential Requirements
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism for an authorized user to get
MCData UE (e.g. drones) identity, location in an identified area.
The MCData service shall also be able to provide characteristics (free
23ormatted information outside 3GPP scope) of an MCData UE to the authorized
user.
## 5.18 Database enquiry (On network)
### 5.18.1 Description
This use case describes priority database enquiries
### 5.18.2 Pre-conditions
A police team is controlling vehicles speed. A man in a car is stopped.
### 5.18.3 Service Flows
Police officer interrogates different data bases to check the car is not
stolen and that the man is not looked for.
The priority is set to normal.
A police officer in the same cell is looking at internet to find a boulangerie
to get something for lunch. This data flow is given the lowest priority.
### 5.18.4 Post-conditions
None.
### 5.18.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 5.18.6 Potential Requirements
The MCData service shall support appropriate confidentiality and integrity
protection for signalling and user data.
The MCData service shall provide a mean to give different priorities to data
flow (according to the event, the group etc..).
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism to control MCData user access to
external non MCData related services (e.g. databases, websites).
## 5.19 Operational data synchronization
### 5.19.1 Description
This use case describes event data synchronization. Event management will be
done through an external software not in the scope of this study item. However
this software should be able to use one to one or one to many data group
communication in order to provide event management functions.
### 5.19.2 Pre-conditions
User A and user B are authorized users on the field working on the same event,
and they are member of the same group X. They have a map of the event with
different signs and color codes.
User C is in control rooms
Figure 5.19-1: Operational data synchronization map 1
Figure 5.19-2: Operational data synchronization map 2
{width="6.746527777777778in" height="5.357638888888889in"}
Figure 5.19-3: Operational data synchronization map 3
### 5.19.3 Service Flows
User A updates the situation on the event manager software.
Updates done by user A are communicated securely to users of group X and
dispatcher.
### 5.19.4 Post-conditions
None.
### 5.19.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
There will be a need to prioritize different data flows according to the
event.
### 5.19.6 Potential Requirements
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism to send a message to a group with
or without delivery notification.
The MCData service shall provide an open interface to be accessed by an
application. This interface shall support control and indication of data
priority.
The MCData service shall support prioritization for data transmissions. This
priority may depend on the circumstances..
## 5.20 Call rejection and queuing (On network)
### 5.20.1 Description
This use case describes call queuing and rejection.
### 5.20.2 Pre-conditions
Pete, a fireman arrives on site of an accident.
### 5.20.3 Service Flows
Pete initiates a group communication to share data with the control room and a
group, the priority of the event is low.
Considering the event has a low priority and the network is overloaded, the
MCData service indicates to Pete and to control room that a call has been
queued or rejected. Other group members are not notified.
If the call is rejected, Paul and the control room are notified of the reject.
If the call is queued, Paul and the control room are notified of the queuing.
If the call is queued, when the network overload is over Pete's data are
transmitted.
Pete receives a notification that data have been transmitted.
### 5.20.4 Post-conditions
None.
### 5.20.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 5.20.6 Potential Requirements
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism to queue any data communications
(one to one, one to many, data enquiries.).
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism to reject data communications
with a cause indication.
## 5.21 First aid use case
### 5.21.1 Description
This use case describes a scenario that a first aid dispatcher transmits data
about the patient's situation and treatment from an ambulance personnel's
group to an emergency department doctors' group in order to give the patient
quick rescue.
### 5.21.2 Pre-conditions
Ambulance personnel (A1-A3), Emergency department doctors (E1-E5) and
dispatcher D use MCData service.
Ambulance personnel (A1-A3) belong to group A.
Emergency department doctors (E1-E5) belong to group E.
### 5.21.3 Service Flows
The dispatcher receives a first aid request, and chooses ambulance personnel
group A to give first aid.
Ambulance personnel group A gets to the patient, and makes instant treatment
after examination, then takes the patient to the hospital's emergency
department for further treatment.
On the way to the hospital, A1 reports to the dispatcher the data of the
patient's situation and the information about treatment.
The dispatcher sends the received data about the patient from Group A to
Emergency department doctors Group E who are responsible for further
treatment.
### 5.21.4 Post-conditions
None.
### 5.21.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features*
None identified.
### 5.21.6 Potential Requirements
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism for an authorized MCData user to
forward data from one MCData group to another..
The MCData service shall notify the sender and one or more authorized users
when a communication is queued, when a communication is rejected, when data
have been sent after a queuing time.
## 5.22 Location Sharing Use Case
### 5.22.1 Description
When performing task, the location information is very important for better
collaboration among the public safety workers. It should be possible to share
within a group the location of each member in real time.
### 5.22.2 Pre-conditions
Officers (O1-O9) Ues are configured to belong to groups X.
### 5.22.3 Service Flows
Officers (O1-O9) are on duty in the scene of a large celebration activities.
Dispatcher A can see Officers (O1-O9)'s location on a map and the officers
also can see each other's location.
Officer O1 finds that there are so many people on his location that need to
evacuate, and reports to the dispatcher A that he needs help.
Dispatcher A requests officer O2 and officer O3 who are near to officer O1 to
help officer O1 to evacuate the crowd.
### 5.22.4 Post-conditions
None.
### 5.22.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 5.22.6 Potential Requirements
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism to periodically share within a
group the location of each member.
## 5.23.1 Multiple events and priority management (On network)
### 5.23.1 Description
This use case describes priority management in case of multiple events.
### 5.23.2 Pre-conditions
A fire brigade with 4 teams is managing a fire (F1-F4). The authorities in the
control room are monitoring different video, some from aerial vehicle. There
are 4 rescue teams (R1-R4) to take care of victims. Doctors are providing
assistance and they use video.
1km far away, on the same cell a whole family is taken as hostages. 3 police
teams (P1-P3) are managing the case under the control of a dispatcher who
takes decisions according to video.
In the same cell, there are also day to day operations, some are common, for
some others life is at stake.
Geolocation data of all teams are constantly monitored by control rooms.
Situational awareness are exchanged between different control rooms and with
the field. Video is used intensively.
Under this cell there is also a chemical plant who shares frequencies and
network infrastructure with public safety. Critical infrastructure is
monitored via mobile-to-mobile applications.
A police officer is also doing a research on social networks.
Another officer is browsing on the internet.
### 5.23.3 Service Flows
Commercial and dedicated networks are overloaded. Moreover organizations have
limited budget and want to control the cost and usefulness of the
communications.
Each data flow is attributed with an a operational priority by the system. The
priority manager entity classifies flows and proposes to the dispatcher to
  * reduce quality of video when possible
  * delay some non critical works
The dispatcher can accept or propose to end some other communications.
The MCVideo service applies the choice of the dispatcher and notifies the
users.
### 5.23.4 Post-conditions
When the events are managed, control room and users are advised situation is
back to normal and they can use the applications as usual.
### 5.23.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
The MCPTT service has some requirements on priorities and has defined a
priority management model in informal clause 4.6 that will have to be detailed
and enhanced.
### 5.23.6 Potential Requirements
Mission critical services will jointly provide a priority management
mechanism. That is to say, the priority management shall manage all data flows
from the different mission critical services together. No mission critical
service is considered as always having priority over another.
Mission critical services shall provide each data flow with a priority based
on operational situation.
Mission critical services shall be able to propose, according to operational
priorities adjustments in quality of service and delay of communications.
Mission critical services shall notify users of actions taken by the
dispatcher that result in a change in priority for a data flow.
## 5.24 Mobility use cases
### 5.24.1 Description
This use case aims at describing mobility use cases between different
networks.
### 5.24.2 Pre-conditions
A public safety dedicated network is deployed in Paris.
A dedicated network is deployed to cover train lines by SNCF.
A dedicated network is deployed by RATP in metro.
MNO's have deployed nationwide LTE transport network.
### 5.24.3 Service Flows
Officer Paul has seen a suspect and follows him. He is quite far from the city
and Paul is accessing his public safety service through operator's network.
The suspect drives in Paris. Since the dispatcher wants to follow the case in
priority, Paul is allocated resources for audio and video on the dedicated
network.
The suspect enters French metro. Paul is allocated resources on RATP (metro
company) network but still connected to its MCPTT/MCVideo/MCData services.
According to priority negotiated at operational/application level, resources
are allocated to Paul by RATP priority manager. While the handover full
service continuity is provided in particular for real time services as far as
resources are available (access to voice, video and data group
communications).
The suspect, still followed by Paul leaves metro to take the train. SNCF
(train company) allocates resources to officer Paul still connected to its
MCPTT, MCVideo and MCData service, according to priorities configured at
operational/application level.
The suspect is arrested before taking the plane at the airport. Video is
transmitted through hub one (Aeroport de Paris) dedicated network.
Figure 5.24-1: Mobility use cases
### 5.24.4 Post-conditions
Resources are released as soon as not useful.
### 5.24.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
Interactions are possible with current MCPTT mobility management.
MCPTT mobility mechanisms may have to be enhanced.
### 5.24.6 Potential Requirements
The MCData system shall minimize the interruption to the MCData service when
the UE moves from one network to another taking into account that priority
management is done in the visited MCData system.
Mobility shall be subject to authorization from home and visited networks
consistently with operational priority management mechanisms. The
authorization may be pre negotiated or on the fly.
## 5.25 MCData Emergency Alert Triggered by Location
### 5.25.1 Description
This use case aims at describing the requirements to initiate an MCData
Emergency Alert when a MCData User enters into a geographic area.
### 5.25.2 Pre-conditions
User A, B and C are affiliated to an MCData Group (Medical Team X) which has a
right to send and transmit data.
### 5.25.3 Service Flows
There is a chemical plant destroyed by an great earthquake. After the
earthquake, one area of the chemical plant is very dangerous since there is a
lot of toxic gas. The MCData Group (Medical Team X) is sent to save the
survived victims in the chemical plant.
When User A enters near the dangerous toxic gas area, an Emergency Alert is
triggered and sent to all the group members. Together with Emergency Alert,
User A also sends to the MCData Group (Medical Team X) the detailed
information of the dangerous area, such as location, type and thickness of the
toxic gas.
### 5.25.4 Post-conditions
All the MCData Group Members receive the Emergency Alert and related
information, then they have the exact information of the toxic gas area, and
can support each other by avoiding enter into dangerous area.
### 5.24.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 5.25.6 Potential Requirements
The MCData Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCData Emergency Alert to
be triggered when an MCData UE moves close to a predefined area.
The MCData Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCData Emergency Alert to
be cancelled when the MCPTT UE moves away a predefined area.
## 5.26 MCData Emergency Group Transmission
### 5.26.1 Description
This use case aims at describing the requirements to support data
transmissions in an emergency scenario.
### 5.26.2 Pre-conditions
User A, B and C are affiliated to an MCData Group which has a right to
transmit and receive data.
### 5.26.3 Service Flows
There is an explosion in a building, and User A, User B and User C is just in
the building. User A makes an Emergency Transmission to the MCData Group to
inform all the group members about the disaster. Then all the group members
receive the Emergency Transmission.
The User A wants to have the 3D map of the Building to try to find a route for
disaster relief. Then the dispatcher in the administration center sends the 3D
map of the building to the MCData Group by the MCData Emergency Group
Transmission.
### 5.26.4 Post-conditions
All the MCData Group Members receive the 3D map of the building, and relieve
the disaster more efficiently.
### 5.26.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 5.26.6 Potential Requirements
The MCData Service shall support MCData Emergency Group Transmissions from an
authorized MCData Group Member on the currently Selected MCData Group or on an
MCData Group designated for MCData Emergency Group Transmissions.
When an MCData User initiates an MCData Emergency Group Transmission this
shall put that MCData User into an MCData Emergency State.
The MCData Service shall ensure that MCData Emergency Group Transmissions have
the highest priority over all other MCData Group transmissions.
The MCData Service shall be capable of changing a MCData Group Transmission in
progress to an MCData Emergency Group Transmission.
# 6 Off network Use Cases
## 6.1 Use case 1
### 6.1.1 Description
Void
### 6.1.2 Pre-conditions
Void
### 6.1.3 Service Flows
Void
### 6.1.4 Post-conditions
Void
### 6.1.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
Void
### 6.1.6 Potential Requirements
Void
# 7 Isolated E-UTRAN Operation for Public Safety Use Cases
## 7.1 Use case 1
### 7.1.1 Description
Void
### 7.1.2 Pre-conditions
Void
### 7.1.3 Service Flows
Void
### 7.1.4 Post-conditions
Void
### 7.1.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
Void
### 7.1.6 Potential Requirements
Void
# 8 Priority Management
## 8.1 Priority Management (On network)
### 8.1.1 Description
This use case describes priority allocation.
### 8.1.2 Pre-conditions
A police officer A arrives on a car accident.
### 8.1.3 Service Flows
Priorities are coded over NXXX values.
He sends a short message that he has arrived on site. The event is allocated
with a priority P1 according to operational processes. This priority will be
allocated by the system depending including, groups involved, type of the
event, etc...
Through a voice call police officer A explains that there are many victims and
that help is needed. Dispatcher decides to give a higher priority to the event
and allocates a new value P2 greater that P1.
### 8.1.4 Post-conditions
The event is considered with higher priority until another dispatcher
decision.
### 8.1.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
The MCPTT service has some requirements on priorities and has defined a
priority management model in informational clause 4.6 In MCPTT specification
that will have to be detailed and enhanced.
### 8.1.6 Potential Requirements
Mission critical services shall provide a mechanism for a user terminal
application to assign a priority to each dataflow.
Mission critical services shall provide authorization to the dispatcher to
override the priority value proposed by the application on user side.
## 9 Mobility
## 9.1 A complex network context
This section describes the potential interactions between private and public
networks.
### 9.1.1 Different networks
Countries are beginning to allocate frequencies for PPDR LTE networks. Indeed,
in order to achieve a coverage as wide as possible with an optimum cost
effectiveness, several strategies can be used and combined: RAN sharing using
private spectrum on a public access network, priority management with no use
of private spectrum, private networks, reuse of utilities networks etc...
As a consequence, we need to consider different kinds of networks :
\- wide area networks over a country
\- city networks
\- very local networks (an airport, a power plant...)
\- special networks (metro, trains)
Considering availability of network deployments, critical communications
organizations will need interoperability and seamless mobility between private
networks owned by different organizations and mobile public networks.
## 9.1.2 Mobility management needs
Basic needs are:
\- Seamless mobility between private and public networks.
\- Deployment of tactical and other private networks - Public safety
organizations will need to be able to use their spectrum as they want to
deploy tactical networks or larger private networks in addition to an existing
network using the same frequencies (including RAN sharing).
In addition mobility will have to be managed coherently with operational
priority management made at the application (MCXXX) level.
As far as possible, already existing mobility mechanisms should be reused.
But, there is a need for the mission critical services applications to
exchange priority information (coming from operational level) that could
influence the authorization of mobility. As a consequence roaming and mobility
should be subject to operational constraints taken into account at the mission
critical application level.
### 9.1.3 Priority management between networks, load balancing between
networks
The priority management mechanisms in MCPTT, MCData and MCVideo will allow
critical communications users to manage priority in overload situations so
that critical data is instantaneously identified according to the field
situation and transported correctly on the network through efficient priority
management mechanisms.
Overload mitigation can be achieved for example by not transmitting non-
mission critical data or by using public LTE networks as "offload" .
Overload will be managed by a policy established between the MCXXX operator of
the private mobile network and the network operator of the public mobile
network.
The need is summarized is the following figure :
Figure 9.1-1: Priority management between networks, load balancing between
networks
# 10 Considerations
## 10.1 Considerations on security
Void
## 10.2 Considerations on MCData service
MCData service shall reuse already existing data service wherever possible.
## 10.3 Considerations on MCVideo requirements in IOPS mode
The IOPS specification defines a minimum set of service. It is proposed not to
define additional IOPS services in MCVideo normative work. It is reminded that
IOPS was designed with few functionalities since the objective was to not to
leave public safety officers alone on the field in case of a technical
incident on the network. If relevant a set of service corresponding to this
objective will be defined for MCVideo and introduced in the IOPS
specification.
# 11 Potential Requirements
## 11.1 General
The MCData feasibility study has shown a real need for data group
communications. Affiliation, administration processes, definition of call
types (emergency, imminent peril, private etc..) will be very similar in
MCData and MCPTT. MCData service shall apply the common core requirements
defined in XXX
Editor's note: this paragraph will be completed as soon as the common core
requirements specification will be completed
As a consequence, in this work, we focus on the new requirements introduced in
MCData. In the normative work if requirements are specific to MCData they will
be put in MCData specification, if they are common for all mission critical
services they will be put in the common core requirements specification.
## 11.2 Consolidated requirements for new MCData services
In this section, we consider only MCData specific requirements.
### 11.2.1 Generic capabilities
MCData makes frequent use of a set of capabilities and enablers that allows
for many end user services to be built on a common foundation. Several generic
capabilities are defined for use in the MCData service. These capabilities can
be used on their own to transfer files, messages and other content or combined
with other services, through an Application, to provide complete end users
services as determined by the authorities implementing the service.
It is not intended to invent new protocols for the MCData service. Where
existing protocols exist, are efficient and are sufficient, the service should
make use of these protocols.
#### 11.2.1.1 Simple messaging capability
The simple messaging capability of the MCData service could be considered as
the base protocol carrying a limited size content payload message. This
message could be text or could be marked for extensible purposes including
short binary messages for application communication. Messaging could be one-
to-one messaging or could be group messaging.
Requirements{
The MCData service shall provide a simple messaging capability.
The MCData service simple messaging capability shall provide a one to many
service with policy assertion capabilities (e.g. certain types of message or
content may only be relevant to certain members of a group due, for example,
to location).
  * The MCData service shall provide a mechanism by which a user makes a one-to-one, or one-to-many data transmission in on network mode. [Requirement from 5.8 and 5.9]
  * The MCData service shall provide a mechanism by which a user makes a one-to-one, or one-to-many data transmission in IOPS mode. [Requirement from 5.8 and 5.9]
  * The MCData service shall provide a mechanism by which a user makes a one-to-one, or one-to-many data transmission in off network mode. [Requirement from 5.8 and 5.9]
The MCData service simple messaging capability shall provide a one to one
service with policy assertion capabilities (e.g. certain types of message or
content may only be relevant to certain members of a group due, for example,
to location). [Requirement derived from use case in 5.9]
The MCData service simple messaging capability shall provide the option to
include a content payload of at least [1000] characters of 8 bit text or [500]
characters of 16 bit text or [250] characters of 32 bit text and the necessary
character encoding information (for example to identify alphabet used).
The MCData service simple messaging capability shall provide the option to
include a content payload of at least [1000] characters of hyperlink or
interleaved text and hyper link(s) to allow subsequent access to linked
content (which may be a large file).
The MCData service simple messaging capability shall provide the option to
include a content payload of at least [1000] bytes of binary data to be used
by a local running application and the necessary addressing detail to
indentify the intended application.
Content received in a UE, addressed to a known local application that is not
yet running shall cause the UE to start the local application and pass the
content to the application. This could be used to start an application and
pass to it the initial data.
The MCData service shall provide the capability to remotely start a local
application (e.g. situational awareness). This may be through specific use of
binary payload on the simple messaging capability.
The MCData service simple messaging capability shall provide a message thread
indication so that multiple message flows can be managed independently.
[Requirement derived from use case in 5.10 and 5.11]
When replying to a message on the MCData service simple messaging capability
or sending any message which should be coupled with previously sent or
received messages or message flows; the message thread indication shall use
the same indication as was used for those previous messages. [Requirement
derived from use case in 5.10 and 5.11]
The MCData service simple messaging capability shall provide a selectable read
receipt indication. When requested, the receiving entity shall provide receipt
indication for delivered and read messages as appropriate. The read indication
will implicitly indicate delivered as well. [Requirement derived from use case
in 5.12 and 5.13]
The MCData service simple messaging capability shall provide a configurable
read receipt indication. When configured, the receiving entity shall provide
receipt indication addressed to the [Application Server] for delivered and
read messages as appropriate. The read indication will implicitly indicate
delivered as well. [Requirement derived from use case in 5.12 and 5.13]
The MCData service simple messaging capability shall permit delivery history
interrogation for suitably authorized users. [Requirement derived from use
case in 5.12 and 5.13]
The MCData service simple messaging capability shall permit delivery history
interrogation for suitably authorized users. [Requirement derived from use
case in 5.12 and 5.13]
The MCData service simple messaging capability shall provide the option to add
a field indicating location of the sending user/UE. [Requirement derived from
use case in 5.22]
The MCData service simple messaging capability shall allow empty messages
including only a field indicating location of the sending user/UE.
[Requirement derived from use case in 5.22]
}Requirements
#### 11.2.1.2 File distribution capability
File distribution is a fundamental capability of the MCData service. File
distribution can be used to provide a standalone file transfer capability or
can be invoked by a controlling application to support the purpose of the
application.
Requirements{
The MCData service shall provide a file distribution capability. [Requirement
derived from use case in 5.3]
The MCData file distribution capability shall provide a service to allow a
user to send a file to any combination of individual users and/or affiliated
groups. [Requirement derived from use case in 5.3]
The MCData file distribution capability shall provide an option for each
recipient to choose to receive the file or not (e.g. by storing the file and
sending a link (URL) to all relevant members). By using this capability a user
may choose when to receive the file. [Requirement derived from use case in
5.3]
The MCData file distribution capability shall allow a user to reject to
receive the file where appropriate. [Requirement derived from use case in 5.3]
The MCData file distribution capability shall provide a sending user
selectable indication for mandatory download so that the UE, for all relevant
receiving members, will automatically download the file. The mandatory
indication provides a system level capability and could be invoked
automatically by need of the application or might be provided for selection by
the user. [Requirement derived from use case in 5.3]
The MCData file distribution capability shall provide download complete
indications for each recipient successfully downloading the file. [Requirement
derived from use case in 5.3]
The MCData file distribution capability shall allow the sender to select to
send the file immediately to all selected users. [Requirement derived from use
case in 5.3]
The MCData file distribution capability shall make use of available system
delivery efficiencies for distribution of common information to users within a
specific geographic area and able to receive at the same time. [Requirement
derived from use case in 5.3]
The MCData file distribution capability shall allow a user to cancel
distribution of files they have sent.
The MCData file distribution capability shall allow an authorised user to
cancel distribution of files being sent or waiting to be sent.
}Requirements
#### 11.2.1.3 Data streaming capability
Data streaming is a fundamental capability of the MCData service. Data
streaming can be used to provide a standalone data streaming capability or can
be invoked by a controlling application to support the purpose of the
application.
Requirements{
The MCData service shall provide a data streaming capability. [Requirement
derived from use case in 5.5]
The MCData data streaming capability shall provide an option for each
recipient to choose to receive the data stream or not (e.g. by sending a link
(URL) to all relevant members). [Requirement derived from use case in 5.5]
The MCData data streaming capability shall allow a user to reject to receive
the data stream where appropriate. [Requirement derived from use case in 5.5]
The MCData data streaming capability shall provide a sending user selectable
indication for mandatory receive so that the UE, for all relevant receiving
members, will automatically receive the data stream. [Requirement derived from
use case in 5.5]
The MCData data streaming capability shall provide start and stop records for
each recipient successfully receiving the data stream. [Requirement derived
from use case in 5.5]
The MCData data streaming capability shall make use of available system
delivery efficiencies for streaming of common information to users within the
same relevant area and able to receive at the same time. [Requirement derived
from use case in 5.5]
The MCData data streaming capability shall allow a user to cancel streaming of
data they have initiated included data remaining buffered in the system
waiting to be streamed. [Requirement derived from use case in 5.5]
The MCData data streaming capability shall allow an authorised user to
terminate streaming of data being sent and cancel streaming of data remaining
buffered in the system waiting to be streamed. [Requirement derived from use
case in 5.5]
}Requirements
#### 11.2.1.4 IP proxy capability
To provide IP connectivity but with the similar security and confidentiality
as provided by MCPTT.
\- An MCData UE shall be able to establish data communication to another
MCData UE. [Requirement from 5.14]
\- The MCData service shall support IP connectivity between an MCData UE and a
customer-operated server connected via mobile access. [Requirement from 5.15]
#### 11.2.1.5 Priority
Editor's Note: Probably mostly as MCPTT except that queueing could be allowed
with significant delay. Will we want notifications? For the sending ue/user?
For other users? Probably only if the queue delay exceeds a certain amount.
Perhaps we could have an overload function. Could use in band signalling to
disable/queue certain types of communication. Non service related traffic
could be prohibited. Non group comms could be allowed for emergency
only...Failure notifications and consequence -- delivery target not met --
given up trying to deliver...Priority management is an interworking
requirement between services too.
Requirements{
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism to queue any data communications
(one to one, one to many, data enquiries.). [Requirement derived from use case
in 5.20 and 5.21]
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism to reject data communications
with a cause indication. [Requirement derived from use case in 5.20 and 5.21]
The MCData service shall notify the sender and one or more authorized users
when a communication is queued, when a communication is rejected, when data
have been sent after a queuing time. [Requirement derived from use case in
5.20 and 5.21]
}Requirements
### 11.2.2 MCData services common for on network and off network
#### 11.2.2.1 Conversation management
##### 11.2.2.1.1 Conversation management for one to many transmissions
The data group communication service shall provide a mechanism to link
different multimedia messages in a one to many conversation.
The conversation will have a hang time [NX] after which the last message can
not be answered.
The MCData service shall provide a means for an administrator to configure the
hang time.
The system shall be able to log any message and conversation in on network
mode.
The MCData service shall enable multiple concurrent conversations for the same
group.
##### 11.2.2.1.2 Conversation management for one to one data transmissions
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism to link different multimedia
messages in a one to one conversation.
The conversation will have a hang time after which the last message can not be
answered.
The MCData shall provide a means for an administrator to configure the MCData
hang time.
The MCData service shall be able to log any message and conversation in on
network mode.
The MCData service shall enable multiple one to one concurrent
conversations...
#### 11.2.2.2 Data forwarding
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism for an authorized MCData user to
forward data from one MCData group to another.
The MCData service shall notify the sender and one or more authorized users
when a communication is queued, when a communication is rejected, when data
have been sent after a queuing time.
#### 11.2.2.3 Delivery notification
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism to send a "message delivered"
and/or "message read" acknowledgement to the message sender and to one or more
authorized MCData users for one to many and one to one data transmissions.
#### 11.2.2.4 Location sharing
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism to periodically share within a
group the location of each member.
#### 11.2.2.5 MCData emergency alert triggered by location
The MCData Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCData Emergency Alert to
be triggered when an MCData UE moves into a predefined area.
The MCData Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCData Emergency Alert to
be cancelled when the MCPTT UE moves out of a predefined area.
Note: Mission critical location related services may have to be studied in
common mission critical services.
#### 11.2.2.6 Robots
Robots control:
The MCData service shall provide point to point communication to remotely
control robots. The MCData service shall provide point to point communications
to control an unmanned aerial vehicle. For the control of an unmanned aerial
vehicle, the control latency shall remain under [50ms].
For aquatic and submarines vehicles, the control latency shall remain under
[200ms].
For terrestrial robots, the control latency shall remain under [400ms].
[Editor's]{.underline} Note: At this stage of the user requirements work, the
latency is an end-to-end latency. The split between network latency and robot
latency is left for stage 2.The latency is measured between the action of the
pilot and the movement of the robot (not only MCData service).
The MCData service shall provide a mean to alert when the network is not able
to provide the required quality of service in [50ms].
The MCData service shall be able to simultaneously manage multiple drones per
cell.
MCData UE in a drone may have a UE to network relay capability.
MCData service shall support management of drones at an altitude of up to 150m
above the floor.
The MCData system shall minimize the interruption to the MCData service when
an MCData UE transitions between different network modes (off network and on
network, relay and on network, relay and off network).
Editor's note: transitions between UE to network relay and on network are to
be prioritized according to use cases presented in MCVideo study item [4].
Robots identification:
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism for an authorized user to get
MCData UE (e.g. drones) identity, location in an identified area.
The MCData service shall also be able to provide characteristics (free
41ormatted information outside 3GPP scope) of an MCData UE to the authorized
user.
### 11.2.3 MCData services requirements specific to on network use
#### 11.2.3.1 Database enquiries and secured internet access
The MCData service shall support appropriate confidentiality and integrity
protection for signalling and user data.
The MCData service shall provide a mean to give different priorities to data
flow (according to the event, the group etc..).
The MCData service shall provide a mechanism to control MCData user access to
external non MCData related services (e.g. databases, websites).
### 11.2.4 MCData services requirements specific to IOPS mode
MCData service should be available in IOPS mode when possible.
## 11.3 Consolidated requirements on open interface for MCData
A standardized open interface shall be provided for access to and control of
the MCData service.
## 11.4 MC Service interworking requirements
In this document the term MCService(s) is used as a naming convention for any
and every mission critical service (e.g. MCPTT, MCVideo, MCData).
Editor's note: This document is far from complete or exhaustive in terms of
requirements but is presented now as a place to capture the input requirements
from TR 22.880 (MCData) which relate to inter MC service interworking. This
interworking will have implications for all MC services.
### 11.4.1 Groups
The MCService shall provide MCService Groups which can be defined for
independent MCService use or for common use among any combination of
MCServices (Common MCService Group). [Requirement derived from use case in
5.1]
NOTE: This is an implementation level requirement. Groups among MCServices may
be completely independent in operation but managed together to appear to the
user as a common group.
Editor's note: There is also an application level aspect to groups. It may be
best for a Group to be capable of being identified for a/any Service and for
a/any application (MCData).
### 11.4.2 Affiliation
The MCService shall provide a mechanism by which a UE can affiliate to any
Common MCService Group(s) for which the current user is authorized; both
together as a single group affiliation for all relevant MCServices and
independently by MCService. [Requirement derived from use case in 5.1]
The MCService shall provide a mechanism by which a UE can only affiliate to a
Common MCService Group(s) for MCServices which the UE is capable of
supporting.
### 11.4.3 Simultaneous non coordinated use
Except where expressly stated each MCService shall operate independently of
each other MCService. [Requirement derived from use case in 5.4]
A user shall be able to transmit on one MCService and receive on another
without service interaction limitations. [Requirement derived from use case in
5.4]
A user shall be able to transmit on different MCServices at essentially the
same time without service interaction limitations. [Requirement derived from
use case in 5.4]
A user shall be able to receive on different MCServices at essentially the
same time without service interaction limitations except where services are
competing for the same unsharable resource which may include the display,
audio transducers... [Requirement derived from use case in 5.4]
In normal use, the most recently selected MCService shall take priority over
use of contended resources. [Requirement derived from use case in 5.4]
Communication marked as Emergency shall take priority over non emergency use
of contended resources. [Requirement derived from use case in 5.4]
Any floor control facility remains completely independent for each of
simultaneous MCServices except where expressly stated. [Requirement derived
from use case in 5.4]
### 11.4.4 Simultaneous coordinated use
Any simultaneous correlated use service may be implemented as independent
services from the operational point of view but with user interface controls
making an apparently correlated service. For example a map/location service
with the capability to show the position of users might interact with a video
service so that any user might select a specific user due to their location
and send video to them. The MCVideo service does not need to be integrated
with the MCData service but the two should work together through the user
interface to operate as if they were integrated.
Editor's Note: As an alternative, the coordinated service could actually be
implemented as a combined service with different media type communication but
independent floor control where appropriate.
To support combined services where the operation is intended to be
coordinated, it shall be possible for one MCService to access and communicate
using user identifying information in use for a coordinated MCService.
[Requirement derived from use case in 5.5 and 5.6]
Editor's Note: This may be the AliasID but in any case it should be a user
identification sent in one MC service that can be accessed locally by another
MCService for the purposes of addressing that user for linked services.
To support combined services where the operation is intended to be
coordinated, it shall be possible for one MCService to access and communicate
using group definitions in use for a coordinated MCService. [Requirement
derived from use case in 5.5 and 5.6]
To support combined services where the operation is intended to be
coordinated, it shall be possible for one MCService to access and communicate
using geographic restrictions in use for a coordinated MCService. [Requirement
derived from use case in 5.5 and 5.6]
### 11.4.5 Inter MCService priority and pre-emption
Inter MCService priority is not applied at the transport layer. The transport
layer should not need to know the MCService type being utilised, furthermore
inter MCService priorities can be set on a case by case basis. This mean that
any priority treatment will be invoked within the MCService architecture and
may be implemented within the MCServices and/or by QCI/ARP actions at the
point of connection to the EPS.
[Derived from use case in 5.6]
## 11.5 Consolidated requirements on mobility, priority management, service
continuity and load balancing
### 11.5.1 Priority management
Mission critical services will jointly provide a priority management
mechanism. That is to say, the priority management shall manage all data flows
from the different mission critical services together. No mission critical
service is considered as always having priority over another.
Mission critical services shall provide each data flow with a priority based
on operational situation.
Mission critical services shall be able to support adjustments in quality of
service and delay of communications, according to operational priorities,
subject to control of an authorized user.
Mission critical services shall notify users of actions taken by the
dispatcher that result in a change in priority for a data flow.
### 11.5.2 Mobility management
The MCData system shall minimize the interruption to the MCData service when
the UE moves from one network to another taking into account that priority
management is done in the visited MCData.
Mobility shall be subject to authorization from home and visited networks
consistently with operational priority management mechanisms. The
authorization may be pre negotiated or on the fly.
### 11.5.3 Load balancing
Mission critical services shall be able to manage load balancing between
dedicated LTE networks and public LTE networks.
Note: It can be assumed that private LTE is used when possible while public
LTE may be used when no private LTE coverage is available or for lower
priority data flows while under private LTE coverage.
# 12 Conclusion and Recommendations
The Feasibility Study for Mission Critical Data Communications has analyzed
several use cases. In addition to requirements that already exist in the MCPTT
specification, potential requirements have been identified for additional
services such as remote control of unmanned vehicles, delivery notification,
IP connectivity, etc.
Taking into consideration the use cases presented in this TR and the analysis
of potential requirements in clause 11, it is recommended to proceed with
normative work.
#