# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This document covers use cases and potential requirements for LTE support for
vehicular communications services (represented by the term, Vehicle-to-
Everything (V2X) Services). The TR on LTE support for V2X services contains
three types of V2X (V2V (vehicle to vehicle), V2I (vehicle to
infrastructure/network), and V2P (vehicle to pedestrian)) and both safety and
non-safety aspects.
# 1 Scope
The objective of this TR is to identify use cases and associated potential
requirements for LTE support of V2X services taking into account V2X Services
and parameters defined in other SDOs (e.g. GSMA Connected Living, ETSI ITS
(Intelligent Transportation System), US SAE) or related governmental agency
(e.g. C-ITS project in Korean Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport).
The essential use cases for LTE V2X (V2V, V2I, and V2P) to be studied and
requirements identified are as follows;
\- V2V: covering LTE-based communication between vehicles.
\- V2P: covering LTE-based communication between a vehicle and a device
carried by an individual (e.g. handheld terminal carried by a pedestrian,
cyclist, driver or passenger).
\- V2I: covering LTE-based communication between a vehicle and a roadside
unit.
This TR includes safety and non-safety aspects.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ETSI TR 102 638 V1.1.1: \"Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS); Vehicular
Communications; Basic Set of Applications; Definitions\"
[3] ETSI TS 102 637-1 V1.1.1, \"Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS); Vehicular
Communications; Basic Set of Applications; Part 1: Functional Requirements\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Road Side Unit** : An entity supporting V2I Service that can transmit to,
and receive from a UE using V2I application. RSU is implemented in an eNB or a
stationary UE.
**V2I Service** : A type of V2X Service, where one party is a UE and the other
party is an RSU both using V2I application.
**V2N Service** : A type of V2X Service, where one party is a UE and the other
party is a serving entity, both using V2N applications and communicating with
each other via LTE network entities.
Editor\'s Note: Definition of V2N Service may need to be further discussed.
**V2P Service** : A type of V2X Service, where both parties of the
communication are UEs using V2P application.
**V2V Service** : A type of V2X Service, where both parties of the
communication are UEs using V2V application.
> **V2X Service** : A type of communication service that involves a
> transmitting or receiving UE using V2V application via 3GPP transport. Based
> on the other party involved in the communication, it can be further divided
> into V2V Service, V2I Service, V2P Service, and V2N Service.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CACC Corporative Adaptive Cruise Control
HV Host Vehicle
ITS Intelligent Transport Systems
RV Remote Vehicle
RSU Road Side Unit
TTC Time to Collision
V2I Vehicle-to-Infrastructure
V2N Vehicle-to-Network
V2P Vehicle-to-Pedestrian
V2V Vehicle-to-Vehicle
V2X Vehicle-to-Everything
VRU Vulnerable Road User
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 Types of V2X
The vehicular communication in this TR, referred to as Vehicle-to-Everything
(V2X), contains the following three different types:
\- Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V) Communications
\- Vehicle-to-Infrastructure (V2I) Communications
\- Vehicle-to-Pedestrian (V2P) Communications
{width="3.754861111111111in" height="2.422222222222222in"}
Figure 4.1-1: Types of V2X (V2V, V2P, and V2I).
Note: These three types of V2X can use "co-operative awareness" to provide
more intelligent services for end-users. This means that transport entities,
such as vehicles, roadside infrastructure, and pedestrians, can collect
knowledge of their local environment (e.g., information received from other
vehicles or sensor equipment in proximity) to process and share that knowledge
in order to provide more intelligent services, such as cooperative collision
warning or autonomous driving.
Three basic classes of applications for providing ITS services: road safety,
traffic efficiency, and other applications can be found in e.g., [2],[3].
## 4.2 Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V)
E-UTRAN allows such UEs that are in proximity of each other to exchange
V2V-related information using E-UTRA(N) when permission, authorisation and
proximity criteria are fulfilled. The proximity criteria can be configured by
the MNO. However, UEs supporting V2V Service can exchange such information
when served by or not served by E-UTRAN which supports V2X Service.
The UE supporting V2V applications transmits application layer information
(e.g. about its location, dynamics, and attributes as part of the V2V
Service). The V2V payload must be flexible in order to accommodate different
information contents, and the information can be transmitted periodically
according to a configuration provided by the MNO.
V2V is predominantly broadcast-based; V2V includes the exchange of V2V-related
application information between distinct UEs directly and/or, due to the
limited direct communication range of V2V, the exchange of V2V-related
application information between distinct UEs via infrastructure supporting V2X
Service, e.g., RSU, application server, etc.
## 4.3 Vehicle-to-Infrastructure (V2I)
The UE supporting V2I applications sends application layer information to RSU.
RSU sends application layer information to a group of UEs or a UE supporting
V2I applications.
V2N is also introduced where one party is a UE and the other party is a
serving entity, both supporting V2N applications and communicating with each
other via LTE network.
## 4.4 Vehicle-to-Pedestrian (V2P)
E-UTRAN allows such UEs that are in proximity of each other to exchange
V2P-related information using E-UTRAN when permission, authorisation and
proximity criteria are fulfilled. The proximity criteria can be configured by
the MNO. However, UEs supporting V2P Service can exchange such information
even when not served by E-UTRAN which supports V2X Service.
The UE supporting V2P applications transmits application layer information.
Such information can be broadcast by a vehicle with UE supporting V2X Service
(e.g., warning to pedestrian), and/or by a pedestrian with UE supporting V2X
Service (e.g., warning to vehicle).
V2P includes the exchange of V2P-related application information between
distinct UEs (one for vehicle and the other for pedestrian) directly and/or,
due to the limited direct communication range of V2P, the exchange of
V2P-related application information between distinct UEs via infrastructure
supporting V2X Service, e.g., RSU, application server, etc.
# 5 Use Cases
## 5.1 Forward Collision Warning
### 5.1.1 Description
The FCW application is intended to warn the driver of the HV in case of an
impending rear-end collision with a RV ahead in traffic in the same lane and
direction of travel. Using the V2V Service, FCW is intended to help drivers in
avoiding or mitigating rear-end vehicle collisions in the forward path of
travel.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
The RV and HV are supporting V2V Service and can communicate with each other
using the V2V Service.
### 5.1.3 Service Flows
The RV V2X Service layer periodically broadcasts a message, indicating its
current location, speed, acceleration and optional estimated trajectory.
The RV makes an in-lane determination and time-to-collision determination,
which is reflected in the broadcast message.
LTE broadcasts the different messages as requested by the application layer.
The HV receives the RV broadcasted message and determines if actions need to
be taken.
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
The driver of HV is made alerted that there is an in-path vehicle and can take
corrective actions to avoid or mitigate rear-end vehicle collisions in the
forward path of travel.
### 5.1.5 Potential Requirements
Note 1: Some example informative V2X parameter sets are offered in Annex A of
this document.
The following potential requirements are derived from this use case:
[PR.5.1.5-001] The MNO network shall be able to authorize a UE that supports
V2V Service for usage of message transfer as needed for V2V Services.
[PR.5.1.5-002] A UE that supports V2V Service shall be able to transmit a
broadcast V2X message periodically if requested by the V2X Service layer.
[PR.5.1.5-003] A UE that supports V2V Service shall be able to receive a
periodic broadcast message.
[PR.5.1.5-004] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support high mobility
performance(e.g. a maximum absolute speed of 160 km/h).
[PR.5.1.5-005] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a communication range
sufficient to give the driver(s) ample response time (e.g. 4 seconds).
[PR.5.1.5-006] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a message size of 50-300
Bytes, which can be up to 1200 Bytes.
Note 2: The content (which is out of scope of 3GPP) allows the application
layer to make collision avoidance calculations based on, e.g. its current
location, velocity, acceleration and optional estimated trajectory
Note 3: The above message size does not take into account security overhead
that can be added by application layer.
[PR.5.1.5-007] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a maximum latency of
100ms.
[PR.5.1.5-008] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a maximum frequency of
10 V2X messages per second.
[PR.5.1.5-009] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support high reliability without
requiring application-layer message retransmissions.
[PR.5.1.5-010] The V2V Service shall support user/vehicle anonymity and
integrity protection of the transmission.
[PR.5.1.5-011] A UE that supports V2V Service shall be able to support
transmission and reception of the V2X message from other UEs that supports V2V
Service in different PLMNs and of different countries.
Note 4: It is not required that a UE supporting V2V Services can
simultaneously use different PLMNs for V2V Services.
## 5.2 Control Loss Warning
### 5.2.1 Description
The CLW application enables a HV to broadcast a self-generated control loss
event to surrounding RVs. Upon receiving such event information, a RV
determines the relevance of the event and provides a warning to the driver, if
appropriate.
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
The RV and HV are supporting V2V Service and can communicate with each other
using the V2V Service.
### 5.2.3 Service Flows
The RV periodically broadcasts a message indicating its current location,
speed, acceleration and optional estimated trajectory.
When the RV self-determines a control loss, possibly coupled with in-lane and
time-to-collision determinations, it transmits this information via broadcast
as an event, making use of the V2V Service.
The HV receives the RV event message and determines if actions need to be
taken.
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
Driver of HV is alerted that there is an in-path vehicle with a loss of
control, and can therefore take corrective actions to avoid or mitigate a
rear-end vehicle collision in the forward path of travel.
### 5.2.5 Potential Requirements
Note 1: Some example informative V2X parameter sets are offered in Annex A of
this document.
The following potential requirements are derived from this use case:
[PR.5.2.5-001] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support high mobility
performance (e.g. support a maximum relative velocity of 280 km/h.
[PR.5.2.5-002] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a communication range
sufficient to give the driver(s) ample response time (e.g. 4 seconds).
[PR.5.2.5-003] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a maximum latency of
100ms.
[PR.5.2.5-004] The MNO network shall be able to support anonymity and
integrity protection of communication.
[PR.5.2.5-005] A UE that supports V2V Service shall be able to transmit an
event-driven V2X message immediately after it has been triggered by the V2X
Service layer.
[PR.5.2.5-006] A UE that supports V2V Service shall be able to receive an
event-driven V2X message.
[PR.5.2.5-007] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a message size of 50-300
Bytes, which can be up to 1200 Bytes.
Note 2: The content (which is out of scope of 3GPP) allows the application
layer to make collision avoidance calculations based on, e.g. its current
location, speed, acceleration and optional estimated trajectory
Note 3: The above message size does not take into account security overhead
that can be added by application layer.
[PR.5.2.5-008] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a maximum frequency of
10 V2X messages per second.
[PR.5.2.5-009] The E-UTRA(N)shall be able to support high reliability without
requiring application-layer message retransmissions.
## 5.3 V2V Use case for emergency vehicle warning
### 5.3.1 Description
Emergency vehicle warning service enables each vehicle to acquire the
location, speed and direction information of a surrounding emergency vehicle
(e.g. ambulance) to assist safety operation like allowing ambulance path to
get free.
### 5.3.2 Pre-Conditions
John is driving rapidly with his ambulance on the street. The ambulance is
equipped with ProSe-enabled UE supporting V2V Service.
There are several cars in his vicinity also equipped with ProSe-enabled UEs
supporting V2V Service.
### 5.3.3 Service Flows
John\'s ambulance periodically checks if its location, speed or direction has
changed for a predefined threshold compared with the ones notified last time.
If any of the above parameters satisfies the checking criteria, a message
(CAM) is broadcasted containing the car\'s statement.
The CAM contains the basic vehicle information, including vehicle dynamic
status information like direction and speed, vehicle static data like
dimension, status of exterior lights, path history. The size of CAM message is
between 50-300 Bytes.
The emergency vehicle warning message from John\'s ambulance is transmitted in
the maximum frequency of 10 messages per second.
The generated CAM is broadcasted. It is expected that all cars within 300-500
meters range from John should be able to receive the message, including cars
at the street corner without line-of-sight path. The latency for message
reception shall be less than 100 ms.
### 5.3.4 Post-Conditions
Cars in John\'s vicinity deliver the information to car driver who can
understand to free the street way.
### 5.3.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.5.3.5-001] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of transferring V2X Service
messages between two UEs supporting V2V Service with variable message payloads
of 50-300 Bytes.
Note: The above message size does not take into account security overhead.
[PR.5.3.5-002] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of transferring V2X messages
between two UEs supporting V2V Service with maximum frequency of 10 messages
per second.
[PR.5.3.5-003] The E-UTRAN shall be capable **of transferring V2X messages
between two UEs** supporting V2V Service **with a maximum latency of 100ms**.
[PR.5.3.5-004] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of supporting a communication
range sufficient to give the driver(s) ample response time (e.g. 4 seconds).
[PR.5.3.5-005] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of transferring V2X messages
between UEs supporting V2V Service with a maximum relative velocity of 280
km/h.
## 5.4 V2V Emergency Stop Use Case
### 5.4.1 Description
This use case describes vehicles V2V communication used in case of emergency
stop to trigger safer behaviour for other cars in proximity of the stationary
vehicle.
### 5.4.2 Pre-Conditions
John is driving his car on the street. The car is equipped with ProSe-enabled
UE supporting V2V Service.
There are several cars in his vicinity also equipped with ProSe-enabled UEs
supporting V2V Service.
### 5.4.3 Service Flows
John\'s car engine breaks and his car suddenly stop in middle of the street.
The safety service of John\'s car notices this event and generates a
"Stationary vehicle warning" DENM message. The size of DENM is smaller than
3000 Bytes.
All cars within the transmission range from John are able to receive the
message.
### 5.4.4 Post-Conditions
Cars in John\'s vicinity deliver the information to drivers who can take
appropriate action.
### 5.4.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.5.4.5-001] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of transferring V2X messages when
requested by the V2V Service between two UEs supporting V2V Service with
maximum message size of 1200 Bytes.
Note 1: The typical size of message is 400 Bytes.
Note 2: The above message size does not take into account security overhead.
[PR.5.4.5-002] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of transferring V2X messages
between two UEs supporting V2V Service with maximum frequency of 10 messages
per second.
[PR.5.4.5-003] The E-UTRAN shall be capable **of transferring V2X** **messages
between two UEs** supporting V2V Service **with** a maximum latency of **100
ms**.
[PR.5.4.5-004] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of supporting a communication
range sufficient to give the driver(s) ample response time (e.g. 4 seconds).
[PR.5.4.5-005] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of transferring V2X messages
between UEs supporting V2V Service with a maximum absolute speed of 160 km/h.
## 5.5 Cooperative Adaptive Cruise Control
### 5.5.1 Description
This use case describes the scenario whereby a vehicle with V2V capability
joins and leaves a group of corporative-adaptive-cruise-control (CACC)
vehicles. This provides convenience and safety benefits to participating
vehicles and also has societal benefits to improve road congestion and fuel
efficiency.
### 5.5.2 Pre-conditions
Vehicles A and B are supporting V2V Services;
Vehicle A and B are travelling proximity, and are in V2V communication range;
Vehicle A is 15ravelling outside of a CACC group which includes Vehicle B, and
wants to join the CACC group.
### 5.5.3 Service Flows
Vehicle B and other platoon members periodically broadcast a message with the
CACC group information, e.g. size, speed, gap policies, their positions in the
CACC group, etc.
Vehicle A receives messages from the CACC group members and identifies
acceptable CACC groups based on certain criteria (e.g. speed and gap policies,
size).
Vehicle A sends a message to members of the CACC group to request joining.
Vehicle B decides that A can join the CACC group ahead of it and responds with
a confirmation, allowing I distance gap (if necessary).
All other members of the CACC group receive messages from Vehicle A and update
the CACC group information they hold locally.
Subsequently, the driver of Vehicle A decides to leave the CACC group and
assumes control of Vehicle A.
Vehicle A broadcasts a good-bye message to other members of the CACC group.
Vehicle B receives the message from Vehicle A and updates the CACC group
information it holds locally.
### 5.5.4 Post-conditions
Vehicle A leaves the CACC group.
### 5.5.5 Potential Requirements
Note: Some example informative V2X parameter sets are offered in Annex A of
this document.
[PR.5.5.5-001] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a maximum latency of 1s.
[PR.5.5.5-002] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a maximum frequency of 1
V2X message per second.
[PR.5.5.5-003] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support high reliability without
requiring application-layer message retransmissions.
[PR-5.5.5-004] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a high density of UEs
supporting V2V Services (e.g., a 4-lane motorway with traffic jam)
## 5.6 V2I Emergency Stop Use Case
### 5.6.1 Description
This use case describes V2I communication where a Service RSU notifies
vehicles in vicinity in case of emergency stop to trigger safer behaviour.
### 5.6.2 Pre-Conditions
John is driving his vehicle on the street. The vehicle is equipped with ProSe-
enabled UE supporting V2I Service.
There are several Service RSUs in his vicinity equipped with ProSe-enabled UEs
supporting V2I Service.
### 5.6.3 Service Flows
John\'s vehicle engine malfunctions and his vehicle suddenly stops in middle
of the street. The safety service of John\'s vehicle notices this event and
generates a "Stationary vehicle warning" DENM message.
A Service RSU in John\'s vicinity is able to receive the message.
The Service RSU relays the message to its surrounding vehicles.
All vehicles within the transmission range from the Service RSU are able to
receive the message.
### 5.6.4 Post-Conditions
Vehicles in the vicinity of the Service RSU deliver the information to drivers
who can take an appropriate action.
### 5.6.5 Potential Requirements
Note: Some example informative V2X parameter sets are offered in Annex A. In
the case of V2I note that one communication end-point is stationary.
[PR.5.6.5-001] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of transferring V2X messages
between two UEs supporting V2I Service with variable message payloads smaller
than 1200Bytes. The typical size of messages is 400 Bytes.
[PR.5.6.5-002] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of transferring V2X messages
between a UE and a roadside unit both supporting V2I Service with the maximum
frequency of 10 messages per second.
[PR.5.6.5-003] The E-UTRAN shall be capable **of transferring V2X messages
between** a UE and a roadside unit both supporting V2I Service **with latency
no larger than 100 ms** and low delivery loss rate.
[PR.5.6.5-004] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of supporting communication range
**between** a UE and a roadside unit both supporting V2I Service **sufficient
to give driver(s) ample response time (e.g 4 seconds)**
[PR.5.6.5-005] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of transferring V2X messages
between UE and a roadside unit supporting V2I Service with a maximum relative
velocity of 160 km/h.
## 5.7 Queue Warning
### 5.7.1 Description
In a lot of situations, a queue of vehicles on the road may pose a potential
danger and cause delay of traffic, e.g. when a turning queue extends to other
lanes. Using the V2I Service, the queue information can be made available to
other drivers beforehand. This minimizes the likelihood of crashes and allows
for mitigation actions.
### 5.7.2 Pre-conditions
Vehicles A, B, C, and D are supporting V2X Service and can communicate with
each other using the V2V Service, and also communicate with an infrastructure
entity, RSU, via the V2I Service.
Vehicles A, B and C are queuing at a junction with Vehicle A at the queue head
and Vehicle C at the queue end. Vehicle D is approaching the junction from
afar.
### 5.7.3 Service Flows
The service flow involves two aspects: queue determination and queue
information dissemination. The former is making use of the V2V Service, and
the latter is using the V2I Service.
The detailed service flow is as follows:
\- Each of the vehicles A, B and C broadcasts a message periodically to other
vehicles in proximity using V2V Service. The message indicates their status,
e.g. location, vehicle dimension, heading, speed, brake status, gear level,
and possible environment information.
\- Vehicle C receives the broadcast messages, and determines that it is the
end of the queue, and thus periodically informs the RSU, using V2I Service,
regarding the queue information, e.g. size of the queue, status of the queue,
the size of the queue, the last position of the queue, which lanes are
affected, etc.
\- The RSU broadcasts a message to vehicles in proximity, using the V2I
Service, about the queue, based on information received from Vehicle C.
\- Vehicle D, when approaching the RSU, receives the message from the RSU
using the V2I Service, and the driver is made aware of the queue and related
information, such that driving strategy can be formed before reaching the
queue.
\- The vehicle D joins the queue behind vehicle C. Vehicle D replaces vehicle
C to update the RSU, using V2V Service, about the queue, after it determines
that it became the end of the queue.
### 5.7.4 Post-conditions
Driver of Vehicle D is made aware of the queue ahead of time, and can take
actions accordingly in a timely fashion.
### 5.7.5 Potential Requirements
Note 1: Some example informative V2X parameter sets are offered in Appendix A.
In the case of V2I note that one communication end-point is stationary.
[PR.5.7.5-001] A UE that supports V2I Service shall be able to transmit a
message to an RSU.
[PR.5.7.5-002] A UE that supports V2I Service shall be able to receive a
message from an RSU.
[PR.5.7.5-003] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a maximum relative
velocity of 160 km/h.
[PR.5.7.5-004] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a communication range
sufficient to give driver(s) ample response time (e.g. 4 seconds).
[PR.5.7.5-005] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a message size of 50-400
Bytes, which can be up to 1200 Bytes.
Note 2: the content (which is out of scope of 3GPP) allows the application
layer to make decisions based on, e.g. its current location, speed,
acceleration and optional estimated trajectory
[PR.5.7.5-006] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a maximum latency of 100
ms.
[PR.5.7.5-007] The V2I Service shall support user/vehicle anonymity and
integrity protection of the transmission.
## 5.8 Road safety services
### 5.8.1 Description
V2X messages are delivered from one UE supporting V2I Service to other UEs
supporting V2I Service via an RSU which may be installed on the road side.
The RSU receives V2X messages transmitted from UEs supporting V2I Service and
transmits the received V2X messages to UEs within a local area.
A UE receives V2X messages transmitted by the RSU. After processing the
received V2X messages, the UE notifies the driver of relevant information.
{width="4.385416666666667in" height="3.8944444444444444in"}
Figure 5.8.1-1: Road safety services via an RSU.
### 5.8.2 Pre-conditions
The UEs in vehicles recognize that the network supports road safety services.
Each vehicle is served by an eNB operating as an RSU in the network.
Each UE is capable of generating, transmitting, receiving and processing V2X
messages.
The RSU is capable of generating, transmitting, receiving and processing V2X
messages.
### 5.8.3 Service Flows
Vehicle A and Vehicle B\'s UEs determine a cell which is controlled by an eNB
operating as an RSU for active road safety services.
Vehicle A\'s UE triggers transmission of a V2X message periodically or based
on a certain event that happens at the vehicle, e.g. collision risk warning.
The RSU receives one or more V2X messages from one or more vehicles including
Vehicle A\'s UE.
The RSU may or may not filter out some V2X messages received from some UEs.
The RSU distributes a V2X message at the cell.
Vehicle B\'s UE monitors transmission of the V2I messages and receives the V2I
message at the cell.
Note: The message broadcast by the RSU may or may not be the same as the
message received from the vehicle. However, how the RSU constructs the message
broadcast at the cell is out of the scope of 3GPP.
### 5.8.4 Post-conditions
Vehicle B\'s UE gets aware of a situation related to road safety, e.g.
collision risk warning.
Vehicle B\'s UE generates necessary alerts for the driver of the vehicle
(e.g., visual alarm, audio-visual alarm) so that the driver may take
preventive action in advance of possible risky situation.
Note: The generation of alarm or method to alert for the driver is out of the
scope of 3GPP.
### 5.8.5 Potential Requirements
Note: Some example informative V2X parameter sets are offered in Annex A. In
the case of V2I note that one communication end-point is stationary.
[PR.5.8.5-001] A V2X message generated by a UE that supports V2I Service shall
be delivered to other UEs via an RSU within 100 ms with sufficiently low
delivery loss.
[PR.5.8.5-002] The V2X message transmission shall be supported with
user/vehicle anonymity and integrity protection.
[PR.5.8.5-003] A UE that supports V2I Service shall be authorized by the MNO
for usage of message transfer needed for V2I Services.
[PR.5.8.5-004] A UE that supports V2I Service shall be able to recognize
whether a cell supports message transfer as needed for V2I Services.
[PR.5.8.5-005] A UE that supports V2I Service shall be able to transmit V2X
messages in a periodical manner.
[PR.5.8.5-006] A UE that supports V2I Service shall be able to transmit V2X
messages in an event-driven manner.
[PR.5.8.5-007] A UE moving at a maximum absolute speed of 160 km/hour shall be
able to receive V2X messages.
[PR.5.8.5-008] An RSU shall be able to periodically transmit a V2X message at
a maximum frequency of 10Hz.
[PR.5.8.5-009] An RSU shall be able to support a message size up to 1200
Bytes.
## 5.9 Automated Parking System
### 5.9.1 Description
The Automated Parking System (APS) contains a database which provides real-
time information to vehicles in a metropolitan area on availability of parking
spots, be it on the street or in public parking garages. Connected vehicles
help maintain the real-time database of the occupancy of parking spaces, which
can be accessed by means of smartphones and connected vehicles. APS allows a
driver to reserve an available parking space, be guided to it via a navigation
application, and make a hands-free payment for parking.
### 5.9.2 Pre-conditions
City of Mobile has deployed an automated parking system that includes multiple
road-side unit (RSU) entities supporting V2X communication.
Vehicles A supports V2X and the automated parking system; Vehicle B does not
support the automated parking system (may support V2X in general).
### 5.9.3 Service Flows
Vehicle A launches a V2I application supporting APS, and sends a parking
reservation request to a server handling reservations, indicating the intended
destination;
Vehicle A receives a parking space reservation including a reservation
reference;
Vehicle A may be guided towards reserved space via a navigation application;
When Vehicle A approaches the reserved parking lot, it connects to the parking
lot RSU in proximity;
Vehicle A and RSU mutually authenticate their identities as the correct
parking lot RSU, and vehicle owning the specific reservation reference;
The Parking lot RSU allows entrance, informs vehicle A of the parking space
number, may guide the vehicle toward it using a high-resolution map (e.g.
provide indoor navigation assistance), etc.;
Vehicle B approaches the same parking lot without a reservation. It connects
to the parking lot RSU, but it fails to provide a valid reservation, so the
RSU refuses access.
### 5.9.4 Post-conditions
Vehicle A is able to obtain a parking spot.
Vehicle B is asked to first purchase a reservation.
### 5.9.5 Potential Requirements
Note: Some example informative V2X parameter sets are offered in Annex A. In
the case of V2I note that one communication end-point is stationary.
[PR.5.9.5-001] An RSU shall be able to support transmission and reception of
unicast messages.
[PR.5.9.5-002] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a maximum relative
velocity of 160 km/h.
[PR.5.9.5-003] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a communication range
sufficient to give the driver(s) ample response time (e.g. 4 seconds).
[PR.5.9.5-004] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a typical message size
of 50-400 Bytes.
[PR.5.9.5-005] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a maximum latency of
100ms.
[PR.5.9.5-006] A UE supporting V2I Service shall be able to support
transmission and reception of unicast messages.
## 5.10 Wrong way driving warning
### 5.10.1 Description
This use case describes V2V communication used between 2 vehicles driving in
opposite directions warning wrong way driving and trigger safer behaviour for
cars in proximity.
### 5.10.2 Pre-Conditions
\- John, Mary and Bob are driving their cars on the street. The car is
equipped with UE supporting V2V Service.
### 5.10.3 Service Flows
\- John and Bob are driving on a one-way road with the maximum allowed speed
of the road of 140 km/h.
\- Mary is unfamiliar with the surrounding and is unaware of the fact that she
is driving wrongly on the same road on the opposite direction with the same
speed of 140 km/h.
\- The safety service of Mary\'s car notices this event and generates a "Wrong
way driving warning" broadcast message to warn the vehicles in the vicinity of
the incoming danger.
\- John and Bob\'s UE in Mary\'s vicinity are able to receive the warning
message.
### 5.10.4 Post-Conditions
\- John and Bob\'s UEs successfully decode the warning message from Mary\'s
car and takes appropriate action.
### 5.10.5 Potential Requirements
[PR-5.10.5-001] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of transferring broadcasted V2X
messages between UEs supporting V2V Service and moving with a maximum relative
speed of 280 km/h.
## 5.11 V2X message transfer under MNO control
### 5.11.1 Description
This use case describes the scenario where a given UE supporting V2V Service
sends V2X messages to other surrounding UEs and the given UE is under E-UTRAN
coverage.
### 5.11.2 Pre-Conditions
An MNO offers communication between UEs by controlling the transmission
resource of the UEs.
In addition, the following assumptions are made:
\- Mary and Peter use UEs supporting V2V Service;
\- Mary and Peter\'s UEs are subscribers to the same MNO;
\- Mary and Peter\'s UEs are currently residing on their HPLMN;
\- Mary and Peter are subscribers to an MNO that allows them to use its
E-UTRAN resources to transport messages for V2V applications needs;
\- Mary and Peter\'s UEs initiate V2V communications together.
### 5.11.3 Service Flows
Mary is under E-UTRAN coverage.
Mary experiences a situation which triggers her UE to initiate V2X message
broadcast.
Mary\'s UE requests resources to the eNB and gets the allocated resource to
broadcast its V2X message.
### 5.11.4 Post-Conditions
When Peter moves within proximity of Mary, it receives Mary\'s message.
### 5.11.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.5.11.5-001] The establishment of a UE traffic session on the E-UTRAN for
V2X message transfer is under control of the network when the UE is under
network coverage.
[PR.5.11.5-002] The Radio Access Network shall control the radio resources
associated with the E-UTRAN for V2X messages from an UE.
[PR.5.11.5-003] The Radio Access Network shall be able to consider V2V
application needs (frequency, message size, communication range, transmission
latency, transmission reliability and moving speed) for the transfer over
E-UTRAN of the V2X messages of a UE.
[PR.5.11.5-004] The Radio Access Network shall be able to consider radio
resources and their utilization for the V2X message of a UE transfer over
E-UTRAN
[PR.5.11.5-005] The 3GPP network shall provide a means for the MNO to
authorize on per subscription basis, the allowed communication range a UE is
allowed to use for V2V Service.
[PR.5.11.5-006] The 3GPP network shall provide a means for the MNO to
authorize the sending of V2X messages of a UE.
[PR.5.11.5-007] The impact of V2X message transfer on radio usage, network
usage and battery consumption should be minimized.
[PR.5.11.5-008] The 3GPP network shall provide a means for the MNO to enable
or disable the usage of V2X message of any UE transfer over E-UTRAN.
[PR.5.11.5-009] The 3GPP network shall provide a means for the MNO to
authorize V2X message transfer over E-UTRAN for each individual UE.
[PR.5.11.5-010] The 3GPP network shall provide a means for the MNO to control
the connection path for a specific service over V2V. The selected route may be
different for different types of services in the same vehicle. The route may
be controlled also taking into consideration radio-related parameters such as
traffic load and specific radio and service requirements for a given service.
[PR.5.11.5-011] Both the HPLMN and VPLMN operators shall be able to charge for
network resource usage for V2X message transfer by a UE.
## 5.12 Pre-crash Sensing Warning
### 5.12.1 Description
The pre-crash sensing warning application provides warnings to vehicles in
imminent and unavoidable collision by exchanging vehicles attributes after
non-avoidable crash is detected.
### 5.12.2 Pre-conditions
Vehicle A and Vehicle B are supporting V2X Service and can communicate with
each other using V2V Service.
### 5.12.3 Service Flows
Vehicle A detects that a crash cannot be avoided.
Vehicle A broadcasts a message with pre-crash warning information e.g.,
vehicle attributes.
Vehicle B receives and processes the message and provides warnings of pre-
crash to driver.
### 5.12.4 Post-conditions
The driver of Vehicle B takes appropriate action.
### 5.12.5 Potential Requirements
The following potential requirements are derived from this use case:
Note 1: Some example informative V2V parameter sets are offered in Annex A of
this document.
[PR.5.12.5-001] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to transfer V2X messages between
two highly mobile UEs supporting V2V Service with less than 20 ms latency and
high reliability.
Note 2: This requirement might be treated with lower priority compared to the
other requirements.
[PR.5.12.5-002] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support UEs supporting V2V
Service moving in opposite directions at a maximum absolute speed of 160 km/h.
[PR.5.12.5-003] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a message size of up to
50-300 Bytes.
Note 3: The content (which is out of scope of 3GPP) allows the application
layer to make decisions based on vehicles attributes e.g. its current
location, velocity and acceleration.
Note 4: The above message size does not take into account security overhead.
## 5.13 V2X in areas outside network coverage
### 5.13.1 Description
This use case describes V2X communication when one or more vehicles are
located in an area not served by E-UTRAN which supports V2X Service.
Figure 5.13.1-1: Vehicles outside network coverage.
### 5.13.2 Pre-conditions
Vehicle A and B are passenger vehicles equipped with UEs supporting V2V
Service.
Vehicle A and B are located in the area which is not served by E-UTRAN which
supports V2X Service.
Vehicle A and B are pre-configured with parameters effective in the area when
not served by E-UTRAN which supports V2X Service.
### 5.13.3 Service Flows
Vehicle A and Vehicle B start transmission of traffic safety-related messages
through E-UTRA radio using the pre-configured parameters.
Both vehicles are getting close to each other and are within a direct
communication range.
By detecting the signal transmitted by each other, Vehicle A and Vehicle B
notice the existence of each other.
After having noticed other vehicle\'s existence, each vehicle starts receiving
each other\'s traffic safety-related messages.
### 5.13.4 Post-conditions
Vehicle A gets aware of the location, and the moving direction and speed of
Vehicle B.
Vehicle B gets aware of the location, and the moving direction and speed of
Vehicle A.
### 5.13.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.5.13.5-001] A UE supporting V2V Service shall be able to transmit and
receive V2X messages when not served by E-UTRAN which supports V2X Service.
[PR.5.13.5-002] A UE supporting V2V Service shall be authorized by the MNO to
transmit V2X messages when not served by E-UTRAN which supports V2X Service.
[PR.5.13.5-003] A UE supporting V2V Service shall be authorized by the MNO to
receive V2X messages when not served by E-UTRAN which supports V2X Service.
[PR.5.13.5-004] A UE supporting V2V Service shall be able to be pre-configured
under MNO control with parameters to be used for the transmission and
reception of V2X messages when not served by E-UTRAN which supports V2X
Service.
## 5.14 V2X Road safety service via infrastructure
### 5.14.1 Description
This use case describes the scenario where infrastructure nodes such as RSUs
and traffic safety servers generate and distribute traffic safety-related
messages for road safety.
Figure 5.14.1-1: V2X Service via the Traffic safety server.
### 5.14.2 Pre-conditions
Vehicle A is equipped with a UE supporting V2X Service.
MNO B provides a navigation services for vehicles and drivers, which
recommends an optimal route to the destination.
Jeremy is the owner of Vehicle A and is subscribed to the navigation service
of MNO B.
Jeremy has to leave for the meeting place where he is scheduled to meet
Anthony.
RSU C is a road side unit that uses various sensors to detect the amount of
traffic, the average speed of the vehicles, existence of pedestrians,
existence of accidents, etc.
Vehicle D is passing through the area managed by the RSU C.
### 5.14.3 Service Flows
Jeremy starts the engine of Vehicle A. After Jeremy starts the engine, the UE
of Vehicle A makes a registration toward MNO B. The vehicle A is ready to use
a navigation service offered by MNO B. At the same time, the UE starts to
transmit and receive traffic safety-related messages.
Jeremy interacts with the Vehicle A to indicate his destination through voice
command function. The navigation application of the Vehicle A connects to the
traffic safety server of the MNO B. The traffic safety server replies with the
information about the optimal route to the destination.
While Jeremy is driving the Vehicle A, the UE of the Vehicle A transmits and
receives safety-related V2X messages as requested by the application layer.
Service layer of the RSU C detects that an accident has occurred in the area
where the RSU C manages. The RSU C indicates this accident to the traffic
safety server and starts transmission of this information in the area. In
addition, the traffic safety server informs other RSUs near RSU C that there
is an accident in the area indicated by RSU C. The other RSUs near RSU C start
transmission of V2X messages that there is an accident in the area indicated
by RSU C.
The traffic safety server re-calculates the optimal route for Vehicle A and
informs the Vehicle A of the new route.
Sometimes later, application layer of the RSU C detects that a pedestrian is
approaching and requests the transmission of a V2X message. Subsequently, the
RSU C transmits to nearby vehicles the V2X message that there is a pedestrian.
Because this is local and transient information, the RSU C does not deliver
this information to the traffic safety server.
Vehicle D receives this V2X message transmitted by RSU C.
### 5.14.4 Post-conditions
Jeremy changes the route to the destination and can save time to travel.
Vehicle D drives cautiously and can reduce the potential risk of pedestrian
fatality.
### 5.14.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.5.14.5-001] An RSU shall be able to be configured for transmission of V2X
messages to a UE supporting V2I Service as requested by the V2X Service layer.
[PR.5.14.5-002] When requested by the V2X Service layer, an RSU shall be able
to deliver V2X messages to a traffic safety server and/or UEs supporting V2I
Service and/or to other RSUs.
[PR.5.14.5-003] A UE supporting V2I Service shall be authorized to receive V2X
messages broadcast by an RSU.
[PR.5.14.5-004] The system shall be able to support delivery and distribution
of the V2X message generated by a traffic safety server to the RSUs and/or the
UEs supporting V2N Service.
[PR.5.14.5-005] The system shall be able to provide the traffic safety server
and the RSU with means to dynamically control the area where V2X messages are
distributed and transmitted depending on the type and contents of the V2X
messages.
[PR.5.14.5-006] The system shall be able to support delivery of V2X messages
generated by the traffic safety server to the UE supporting V2N Service within
500 milliseconds.
## 5.15 V2N Traffic Flow Optimisation
### 5.15.1 Description
This use case describes vehicles V2N (Vehicle-to-Network) communication to a
centralised ITS server referred here to as "entity" to optimise traffic flow
when approaching intersections. This use case addresses the situation when
approaching the vehicle has to stop even though there are no other cars around
at an intersection or has to slow down because of explicit traffic lights
signal absence. Depending on the traffic situation which is based on the
vehicles\' periodically transmitted messages this entity will provide, via LTE
network entity, a green light to a car when approaching the intersection and
an indication of speed at which the green light will be met without having to
stop or miss the green light phase.
To enable this information about vehicles approaching traffic lights has to be
made available well in advance i.e. in most cases beyond ProSe range. When
coming in ProSe range communication might be switched from network to direct
communication, if deemed useful.
Compared to V2V communication within ProSe range the delay and latency
requirements are more relaxed due to the longer distances and the non-safety
related nature of this use case.
### 5.15.2 Pre-Conditions
Vehicles A, B, C on road 1 are approaching an intersection with road 2,
Vehicle D is approaching the intersection on road 2. All vehicles are equipped
with UEs supporting V2N. If the intersection is equipped with traffic lights,
the entity will copy the information of traffic light and offer an indication
of speed. If the intersection doesn\'t have traffic lights, the entity will
estimate the traffic situation based on the vehicles periodically message and
then offer traffic light information and speed recommendation.
Depending on the V2X deployment model, Vehicle A, B, C and D can be subscribed
to different PLMNs and can be international roamers. This shall not adversely
impact the function of the V2X Service e.g. by increased delays.
{width="4.051388888888889in" height="2.9458333333333333in"}
Figure 5.15.2-1: Example of virtual traffic lights.
### 5.15.3 Service Flows
Vehicles A, B, C and D supporting V2N are transmitting their location, speed
and direction of travel to an entity controlling the traffic light(s) and
giving back information, such as speed recommendations, to the vehicles. The
function of this entity is out of scope for 3GPP.
The 3GPP network will provide additional information to the entity to enable
the entity to authenticate the vehicle more easily.
The 3GPP network will provide a rough indication of location for the entity to
verify the location information received from the vehicle directly.
The entity offers traffic lights information and recommends a proposed speed
to the vehicles and influences the phases of the traffic lights. The drivers
could be notified of this recommended speed by an announcement or other means
such as a head up display.
### 5.15.4 Post-Conditions
Let\'s assume without traffic optimisation Vehicle D would arrive at the
intersection shortly before vehicles A, B and C, causing the traffic light to
stop vehicles A, B, and C. With traffic flow optimisation i.e. taking into
account the speed and direction of the cars and the maximum allowed speed
there are several other options such as:
  * all vehicles will receive indications of a proposed speeds at which all of them will arrive at the traffic lights and meet a green light there or
  * the traffic light will stop vehicle D and give way to vehicles A, B and C to minimize energy consumption by causing a lesser number of vehicles to stop and accelerate again.
If the drivers adhere to the recommendations, the traffic flow will be
impacted least.
### 5.15.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.5.15.5-001] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of transferring V2X messages via
LTE network entities between a UE and a serving entity both supporting V2N
Service with variable message payload of 50-300 Bytes.
[PR.5.15.5-002] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of transferring V2X messages via
LTE network entities from a UE to a serving entity both supporting V2N Service
with maximum frequency of 1 message per second and a minimum frequency of 1
message per 10 seconds.
[PR.5.15.5-003] The E-UTRAN shall be capable **of transferring V2X messages
via LTE network entities between** a **UE and a serving entity both**
supporting V2N Service **with an end-to-end delay no larger than 1000 ms**.
[PR.5.15.5-004] The E-UTRAN shall support anonymity and integrity protection
of communication.
[PR.5.15.5-005] The 3GPP network shall provide means to support the entity to
authorise the UEs supporting V2N Service.
[PR.5.15.5-006] Based on 3GPP network means the 3GPP network shall provide the
location of the UEs supporting V2N Service to the entity.
[PR.5.15.5-007] All UEs supporting V2N independent of their association with
different HPLMN or roaming condition shall experience the same service quality
from the 3GPP network, for example on delays, latency and ease of use of the
service.
[PR.5.15.5-008] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of transferring V2X messages via
LTE network entities from a serving entity to a UE both supporting V2N Service
with maximum frequency of 10 messages per second and a minimum frequency of 1
message per 10 seconds.
## 5.16 Curve Speed Warning
### 5.16.1 Description
Curve speed warning application alerts the driver to manage the curve at an
appropriate speed.
### 5.16.2 Pre-conditions
An RSU is supporting V2I Service and is located before the curve.
An RSU periodically broadcasts a message including curve location, curve speed
limits, curvature, bank and road surface condition, which may be about one or
more curves.
Jon is driving on the highway and his car is equipped with a UE supporting V2I
Service.
### 5.16.3 Service Flows
When Jon\'s car enters the communication range of an RSU, it receives a
broadcast message from the RSU and, using a variety of vehicle information
such as speed and acceleration, calculates whether the driver needs to be
alerted.
### 5.16.4 Post-conditions
If Jon is alerted, he can take the appropriate action.
### 5.16.5 Potential Requirements
[PR 5.16.5-001] An RSU shall be able to transmit a broadcast message to a UE
supporting V2I Service with a maximum frequency of 1 message per second.
[PR 5.16.5-002] A UE supporting V2I Service shall be able to receive a
periodic broadcast message from an RSU, even when the RSU implemented as a UE
is out of coverage or when the RSU implemented as an eNB is operating as an
isolated eNB.
[PR 5.16.5-003] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support transferring V2X
messages from an RSU to a UE supporting V2I Service with a maximum latency of
1 second.
[PR 5.16.5-004] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a communication range
between an RSU and a UE supporting V2I Service sufficient to give the
driver(s) ample response time (e.g., 4 seconds) for the transfer of V2X
messages.
[PR 5.16.5-005] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a message size of
50-400 Bytes to transfer V2X messages.
Note 1: The above message size does not take into account security overhead.
## 5.17 Warning to Pedestrian against Pedestrian Collision
### 5.17.1 Description
This use case is to provide information to vulnerable road users, e.g.
pedestrian or cyclist, of the presence of moving vehicles in case of dangerous
situation. As a result, warnings are provided to vulnerable road users to
avoid collision with the moving vehicle.
### 5.17.2 Pre-conditions
An MNO offers a service, which makes use of the V2X feature.
Vehicle A is a UE supporting V2X Service.
Pedestrian B uses a smartphone which is a UE supporting V2X Service for
pedestrian.
Vehicle A and Pedestrian B are in proximity.
Vehicle A and Pedestrian B are authorized for vehicular services.
### 5.17.3 Service Flows
Pedestrian B\'s smartphone monitors transmission of V2X messages.
Vehicle A is about to pass through crosswalk or intersection and transmits a
V2X message using V2P communication, with a given periodicity and within a
given latency.
V2X message from Vehicle A provides information on the presence, trajectory
and speed of Vehicle A.
Pedestrian B\'s smartphone receives the V2X message transmitted by Vehicle A.
{width="5.132638888888889in" height="2.9131944444444446in"}
Figure 5.17.3-1: Pedestrian Collision Warning even when out of the line of
sight.
### 5.17.4 Post-conditions
Pedestrian B\'s smartphone gets aware of a situation related to the presence
of vehicle(s) and collision risk.
Pedestrian B\'s smartphone generates necessary alerts for Pedestrian B (e.g.,
visual alarm, audio-visual alarm or vibration) so that the driver may take
preventive action in advance of possible risky situation.
Note: The generation of alarm or method to alert the vulnerable road user is
out of the scope of 3GPP.
### 5.17.5 Potential Requirements
[PR 5.17.5-001] A UE supporting V2X Service shall be authorized for vehicular
services.
[PR 5.17.5-002] A UE (for pedestrian) supporting V2X Service shall be
authorized by the MNO for vehicular services.
[PR 5.17.5-003] (void)
[PR 5.17.5-004] A UE supporting V2X Service shall be able to support multiple
delay requirements depending on different types of V2X messages.
[PR 5.17.5-005] A UE supporting V2X Service shall be able to transmit V2X
message in a periodical manner.
[PR 5.17.5-006] A UE supporting V2X Service shall be able to transmit V2X
message in an event-driven manner.
[PR 5.17.5-007] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a typical message size
of 50-300 Bytes, which can be up to 1200 bytes.
[PR 5.17.5-008] A UE supporting V2X Service shall be able to broadcast V2X
messages for V2X Service for pedestrian.
[PR 5.17.5-009] A UE supporting V2X Service for pedestrian shall be able to
transmit V2X messages sent to a UE supporting V2X Service moving at the
absolute speed up to 160 km/h.
[PR 5.17.5-010] Security for V2X message delivery shall be supported.
[PR 5.17.5-011] A UE supporting V2X Service for pedestrian shall be able to
support transmission of V2X messages to UE(s) that supports V2X Service,
subscribed to different MNO.
[PR 5.17.5-012] A UE supporting V2X Service shall be able to support broadcast
of V2X messages for UEs that support V2X Service for pedestrian and are
subscribed to different MNO.
[PR 5.17.5-013] For UE supporting V2X Service for pedestrian, the impact of
V2X message transmission on battery consumption should be minimized.
[PR 5.17.5-014] A UE supporting V2X Service for pedestrian should be able to
receive V2X messages sent from UEs supporting V2X Service moving at an
absolute speed up to 160 km/h.
[PR 5.17.5-015] A UE supporting V2X Service for pedestrian should be able to
support reception of V2X messages from a UE that supports V2X Service,
subscribed to different MNO.
## 5.18 Vulnerable Road User (VRU) Safety
### 5.18.1 Description
This use case describes the scenario whereby a vehicular and a pedestrian are
both equipped with V2P capabilities, and the vehicle detects the pedestrian\'s
presence and alerts the driver, if an imminent threat is present. This
capability extends the safety benefit of V2X to pedestrians and other
vulnerable road users, e.g. bicyclists, wheelchair users, etc.
Note that ETSI TR 102.638[2] defines a similar Vulnerable Road User Warning
use case where a user device broadcast co-operative awareness messages (CAM)
with information on the presence, trajectory and speed of the vulnerable road
user. Nearby vehicles can receive, decode, and process CAM messages and
provide warnings to driver to avoid collision with the vulnerable road user.
This use case requires maximum latency time of 100 ms, and the minimum CAMs
frequency of 1 message per second. The maximum latency time is calculated to
be communicated to the network/transport layer.
{width="2.1416666666666666in" height="1.582638888888889in"}
Figure 5.18.3-1: Vulnerable road user warning use case scenario.
### 5.18.2 Pre-conditions
Vehicle A and VRU B\'s smartphone are supporting V2P Service;
Vehicle A and VRU B are in proximity (within each other\'s V2P communication
range);
### 5.18.3 Service Flows
Vehicle A broadcasts a message containing its current status, e.g., location,
speed, acceleration and trajectory;
VRU B\'s smartphone determines whether it is in a vulnerable situation with
potential traffic hazard, e.g., by checking user outdoor/indoor status,
proximity to Vehicle A, user activity state, e.g., texting, looking at the
screen, listening to music;
VRU B\'s smartphone broadcasts a pedestrian message containing its status,
e.g. location, speed, acceleration and optionally user behaviour state;
Based on user choice, VRU B\'s smartphone may also receive and process
messages from Vehicle A, in order to alert the pedestrian.
Vehicle A receives messages from VRU B\'s smartphone and determines that it
needs to notify its driver of potential pedestrian conflicts at least [4]
seconds of TTC.
### 5.18.4 Post-conditions
The Driver of Vehicle A is informed of the potential hazard, and can take
necessary actions.
### 5.18.5 Potential Requirements
Note 1: Some example informative V2X parameter sets are offered in Annex A of
this document.
The potential requirements derived from this use case are:
[PR.5.18.5-001] A UE supporting V2P Service shall be able to receive broadcast
messages from other UEs which support V2P Service.
[PR.5.18.5-002] A UE supporting V2P Service shall be able to send a broadcast
message when it is triggered by the V2X Service layer.
[PR.5.18.5-003] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support high mobility
performance (e.g. a maximum absolute speed of 160 km/h).
[PR.5.18.5-004] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a communication range
sufficient to give the driver(s) ample response time (e.g. 4 seconds).
[PR.5.18.5-005] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a typical message size
of 50-300 Bytes, which can be up to 1200 Bytes.
Note 2: The content (which is out of scope of 3GPP) allows the application
layer to make collision avoidance calculations based on, e.g. its current
location, velocity, acceleration and optional estimated trajectory
Note 3: The above message size does not take into account security overhead
that can be added by application layer.
[PR.5.18.5-006] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a maximum latency of
100ms.
[PR.5.18.5-007] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a maximum frequency of
1 V2X message per second.
[PR.5.18.5-008] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support high reliability
without requiring application-layer message retransmissions.
## 5.19 V2X by UE-type RSU
### 5.19.1 Description
This use case describes the scenario where UE supporting V2X discovers and
communicates with UE-type RSU.
### 5.19.2 Pre-conditions
Vehicle A is normal passenger car equipped with a UE A supporting V2X Service.
UE A, subscribed to MNO X, is located in Cell 1 managed by eNB X.1.
Vehicle B is also normal passenger car equipped with a UE B supporting V2X
Service.
UE B, subscribed to MNO X, is located in Cell 1 managed by eNB X.1.
Cell 1 and Cell 2 are managed by eNB X.1 owned by MNO X.
UE C is configured to function as RSU C and located within Cell 1. RSU C
broadcasts traffic signal information such as when green light is turned on
and off.
UE D is configured to function as RSU D and belongs to MNO Y.
Both RSU C and RSU D are located near UE A.
Cell 2 is a neighbouring cell of Cell 1. In Cell 2, there are no UE-type RSUs.
Figure 5.19.2-1: Example deployment scenario.
### 5.19.3 Service Flows
UE A and UE B get authorization to use V2X Service and starts transmission of
V2X application information such as its speed, heading and location.
RSU C, which is same as UE C, requests for eNB X.1 to allocate with radio
resources. eNB X.1 allocates radio resources to RSU C, and RSU C uses the
allocated radio resources to broadcast traffic light signal information.
UE A moves to near RSU C and receives information transmitted by RSU C.
Meanwhile, owner of UE A starts streaming service application. UE A
establishes RRC connection in Cell 1 through eNB X.1 to serve the streaming
service application.
### 5.19.4 Post-conditions
Owner of UE A adjusts speeds so that the vehicle passes the intersection just
before the traffic light turns red.
Owner of UE A keeps track of movement of Vehicle B and avoids car collision.
### 5.19.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.5.19.5-001] The 3GPP Network shall be able to provide means for MNO to
authorise UE-type RSU.
[PR.5.19.5-002] The 3GPP Network shall be able to control radio resources used
by UE-type RSU.
## 5.20 V2X Minimum QoS
### 5.20.1 Description
This use case describes the scenario where E-UTRA(N) resource is not enough
for every UEs 10 Hz V2X message transmission. In addition, this use case
includes the scenario where emergency vehicle is supported.
### 5.20.2 Pre-conditions
Vehicle A is normal passenger car equipped with a UE supporting V2X Service.
Vehicle A is moving from Cell C toward Cell D.
Vehicle E is ambulance equipped with a UE supporting V2X Service.
Vehicle E is also moving from Cell C toward Cell D, then will move to Cell F
which is the final destination.
Cell C has enough resource so that it can accommodate more UEs for V2X
Service.
In Cell D, there are too many vehicles. Because resources in Cell D is fully
utilized, it cannot allocate dedicate resources for any additional UE
supporting V2X Service.
### 5.20.3 Service Flows
Vehicle A transmits V2X message while staying in Cell C.
Vehicle A moves into Cell D.
Vehicle A recognizes that Cell D does not have enough resource for its V2X
message transmission.
Vehicle A indicates to V2X application to reduce the generation of periodic
V2X message to a 1 message per second.
Vehicle A performs transmission of 1 V2X message per second.
Vehicle E transmits V2X message while staying in Cell C.
Vehicle E moves into Cell D.
Vehicle E performs transmission of V2X message as similar as in Cell C.
On the route taken by Vehicle E, other vehicles move to the shoulder of the
road and wait until the ambulance passes by.
### 5.20.4 Post-conditions
Nearby UEs have knowledge regarding Vehicle A and Vehicle E.
Nearby UEs have more accurate knowledge of Vehicle E than Vehicle A.
Minimum QoS requirement of V2X Service is met for Vehicle A.
The vehicle E can get an increased chance to arrive at destination in time.
### 5.20.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.5.20.5-001] The 3GPP network shall be able to provide means to prioritize
V2X message transmission for a UE supporting V2X serving specific purpose
(e.g. ambulance or patrol car on duty).
[PR.5.20.5-002] The 3GPP network shall be able to provide means to prioritize
transmission of V2X message according to its type (e.g. whether road safety
related message or not).
## 5.21 Use case for V2X access when roaming
### 5.21.1 Description
Mary is taking a road trip across the country. She has a car equipped with V2X
capability, with service from her home network operator. On her journey, Mary
encounters a traffic jam in town not served by her home network provider. The
town has deployed V2X capabilities to redirect traffic jams caused by a major
infrastructure construction project. The V2X capabilities must be able to
communicate with devices associated with multiple service providers.
### 5.21.2 Pre-conditions
Mary\'s car is equipped to support V2X capability, with service from her home
network operator.
The town Mary is heading toward has deployed V2X capabilities with service
from the local network operator.
Mary encounters a traffic jam in the town and expects to be directed to an
alternate route by her V2X system.
### 5.21.3 Service Flows
The town\'s V2X system broadcasts a message warning vehicles approaching the
congested area of the traffic jam.
This message may be relayed by other vehicles on the road to extend the range
of the message and give vehicles approaching the town ample time to change
course.
Depending on the route towards the congestion, the message provides
information about alternate routes than can be taken to avoid the congested
area.
Before Mary reaches the town limits, her car\'s V2X system receives the
broadcast message, which may have been relayed by other vehicles in front of
her, alerts Mary to the impending traffic jam, and informs her of the
alternate route information based on her current location and direction of
travel.
### 5.21.4 Post-conditions
Mary is able to take an alternate route and continue on her journey without
delay.
### 5.21.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.5.21.5-001] The 3GPP System shall support communication between devices
for V2V Service which can be: Served by the same PLMN, including when roaming;
or Served by different PLMNs, including when roaming.
[PR.5.21.5-002] The 3GPP System shall support communication between RSUs and
UEs for V2I Service which can be: Served by the same PLMN, including when
roaming; or Served by different PLMNs, including when roaming.
[PR.5.21.5-003] The 3GPP System shall support communication between devices
for V2P Service which can be: Served by the same PLMN, including when roaming;
or Served by different PLMNs, including when roaming.
[PR.5.21.5-004] The 3GPP System shall support the same requirements for
latency, reliability, security, etc. for V2X communication between devices
served by different PLMNs as for communications within a single PLMN.
## 5.22 Pedestrian Road Safety via V2P awareness messages
### 5.22.1 Description
A pedestrian carries a UE, which is able to transmit awareness and safety
related V2P broadcast messages. There are two possible approaches.
\- Approach 1: The pedestrian UE performs risk assessment. (see use case 5.18
Vulnerable Road User (VRU) Safety). The pedestrian UE sends a notification
message with position and speed to the vehicle in case of danger.
\- Approach 2: The pedestrian UE broadcasts itself awareness messages
regarding location and speed. Risk assessment is performed by the Vehicle UE.
This approach is described in this Use Case.
The pedestrian UE broadcasts periodically awareness messages with position,
speed and heading information. The messages are received by Vehicle UEs, which
perform collision risk assessment and warn the vehicle driver and the
pedestrian in case of potential collisions. Example traffic scenarios are
e.g.:
  * a pedestrian with a UE:
    * Vehicle and pedestrian are on a collision course with each other, e.g. the pedestrian is approaching from behind the corner of a building, or entering the road from behind a parked vehicle.
    * Pedestrian is walking on the side of a badly illuminated road.
  * a bicycle or a moped has a UE, composed of an on-board unit which takes care of the communication and a smartphone UI for displaying the warnings.
    * Cyclist is on collision course with the vehicle, e.g. approaching from a cycle lane crossing the road.
    * Cyclist is overtaking a slow moving or standstill vehicle and is in the left blind spot of the vehicle. This includes also the case that the driver opens the door of the vehicle with the bicycle approaching.
    * Vehicle is turning into the path of the cyclist or moped (cyclist is in the right blind spot of the Car)
  * motorcycle
    * Vehicle and motorcycle are on collision course at an intersection. The driver does not notice the motorcycle.
    * Motorcycle is overtaking a vehicle. The vehicle performs a lane change without noticing the approaching motorcycle.
### 5.22.2 Pre-conditions
\- Pedestrian UE and vehicle UE support V2P Services
\- Both pedestrian UE and vehicle UE broadcast periodically awareness
messages.
\- Vehicle UE and pedestrian UE are in proximity i.e. within each other\'s V2P
communication range
\- Pedestrian UE comes within a critical range of the vehicle UE trajectory.
\- Vehicle UE performs collision risk assessment with use of received
awareness messages
\- Vehicle can send collision risk warnings messages to other vehicles.
### 5.22.3 Service Flows
  1. The pedestrian UE periodically broadcasts awareness messages, indicating its current position, speed and heading.
  2. The vehicle UE builds a dynamic map with the location of the other road users
  3. The risk assessment at the vehicle UE detects a potential collision risk
  4. At a potential collision risk, the vehicle UE warns the driver.
### 5.22.4 Post-conditions
Vehicle driver is alerted of a potential collision, and take appropriate
action to avoid or mitigate a collision.
### 5.22.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.5.22.5-001] A UE that supports V2P Services (i.e. used by pedestrian)
shall be able to transmit periodic broadcast messages (i.e. awareness
messages).
[PR.5.22.5-002] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a communication range
between UEs that support V2P Services sufficient to give the vehicle driver(s)
ample response time (e.g. 4 seconds).
[PR.5.22.5-003] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of transferring V2X messages
between UEs supporting V2P Services with a maximum relative velocity according
to the context of the UEs (e.g. for motorcycle-vehicle communications up to
280 km/h, for pedestrian-vehicle communication up to 160 km/h).
[PR.5.22.5-004] The power consumption of a UE supporting V2P Services (i.e.
used by pedestrian) only shall be minimized.
## 5.23 Mixed Use Traffic Management
### 5.23.1 Description
There are a number of variables to be taken into account in a scenario
involving different types of vehicular traffic. The optimal coverage range and
frequency of message transmission depends on several factors, including the
relative velocity of the UEs, potential reaction time of the various
transportation modes (e.g., automobile, train, bicycle, and pedestrian),
traffic density, and any environmental conditions. A V2X system would need the
flexibility to adapt to changing attributes such as vehicular traffic density,
rates of speed, angles of approach, and weather conditions which all may
impact the optimal range and transmission rate in a specific situation.
### 5.23.2 Pre-conditions
A number of V2X Service users are approaching a train crossing. The train is
one user. Others include vehicles on the road, bicycles, and pedestrians. The
users are approaching from varying directions as the train intersects a road
near a cross road.
All users have UEs supporting V2X Service.
There can be one an RSU near the intersection supporting the V2X Service,
which is able to provide direction to nearby UEs regarding V2X message
transmission rates.
### 5.23.3 Service Flows
As the train nears the crossing, the V2X system alerts other users approaching
the crossing to slow and prepare to stop at the train crossing.
The messages can be tailored to meet the needs of users travelling at
different velocities, e.g., alerting cars, bicycles, pedestrians, at different
distances and intervals to allow each adequate time to slow and come to a
stop.
Depending on traffic density (e.g., urban, rural) and weather conditions
(e.g., icy pavement) the RSU may instruct the UEs to transmit V2X messages at
a rate and within a coverage area best suited to prevent accidents under the
specific circumstance (e.g., density, weather, rates and direction of travel).
### 5.23.4 Post-conditions
All users stop in a timely manner at the railroad crossing and remain stopped
until the train has passed.
### 5.23.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.5.23.5-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to vary the transmission rate
and coverage area based on service conditions (e.g., rate of UE speed,
weather, UE density).
## 5.24 Enhancing Positional Precision for traffic participants
### 5.24.1 Description
To obtain their position vehicles usually use a GNSS such as GPS, Galileo,
Beidou, and Glonass. However, the publicly available precision for a position
fix for the most common system GPS is just around 15 m, better values can be
obtained and dependent on the radio conditions and are thus not guaranteed.
To compensate (or better: hide) this shortcoming navigation systems use the
geographical map they need anyhow for routing and match the position fix with
the nearest road and also average and extrapolate position fixes over time.
For assisted driving and even more autonomous driving this situation is not
acceptable, for both it would be good for the car to know whether it is in the
middle of a lane with only an uncertainty of a few centimeters.
### 5.24.2 (void)
### 5.24.3 (void)
### 5.24.4 (void)
### 5.24.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.5.24.5-001] A UE supporting V2X Services should be provided with
additional 3GPP (e.g. OTDOA) and/or non 3GPP (e.g. DGPS) mechanisms by which
it can derive its location with higher accuracy.
[PR.5.24.5-002] The 3GPP Network should make available any supported
positional accuracy improvement techniques in a resource efficient way to a
subscribed UE supporting V2X Services.
## 5.25 Privacy in the V2V communication environment
### 5.25.1 Description
The privacy or anonymity in the V2V communication environment is a requirement
deemed very important for user adoption of the V2V system. Privacy refers to
two aspects:
> \- prevention of association of certain vehicle (or driver) as seen by an
> observer and the safety messages it actually broadcasts.
>
> \- prevention of tracking of the journey of a certain vehicle between two
> geographical points.
The first requirement is achieved via security measures in the safety messages
themselves, whereby the sender/message identifier does not leak any
information about the identity of the driver or vehicle, or characteristics of
the vehicle.
Regarding the second requirement, there is a competing application requirement
for the safety algorithm to track the position of other vehicles in proximity,
on a short time scale, in order to provide basic service to the driver, e.g.
warnings, etc. However, tracking is not needed for longer time scales. Thus
the privacy requirement only applies within the context of a (longer) journey.
### 5.25.2 Pre-conditions
Vehicle A and Vehicle B are supporting V2X Service and can communicate with
each other using V2V service.
### 5.25.3 Service Flows
Vehicle B is driving behind Vehicle A on an urban road, along with other
vehicles, maintaining proximity to each other.
Vehicles A and B both broadcast messages containing location, speed and other
safety information.
Vehicle B receives the messages from Vehicle A and is able to distinguish this
vehicle from others around it who are also broadcasting such messages; Vehicle
B is also able to track its path via path-prediction algorithms, in order to
provide a warning to the driver in case the distance between these two
vehicles becomes unsafe. Yet, Vehicle B cannot actually tell which of the cars
around it is actually the sender of these messages.
After a few minutes, Vehicle A turns to a perpendicular road while Vehicle B
continues, and thus they no longer hear each other\'s safety messages.
Half an hour later, Vehicle A and Vehicle B find themselves on a side road
driving in the same direction, with no other cars around them.
### 5.25.4 Post-conditions
Vehicle B receives the safety messages from Vehicle A, but is not able to tell
that this is the same vehicle that it drove behind on the urban road earlier,
nor is Vehicle A able to tell, by processing Vehicle B\'s safety messages,
that this is the same vehicle that drove behind it.
### 5.25.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.5.25.5-001] The 3GPP system should be able to support driver and vehicle
privacy, by ensuring that a vehicle cannot be tracked or identified by any
other vehicle beyond a certain short time-period required to run path-
prediction algorithms while in proximity.
## 5.26 V2N Use Case to provide overview to road traffic participants and
interested parties
### 5.26.1 Description
This use case describes a general use case for V2N communication that
exercises the strength of 3GPP networks of providing excellent coverage. In
this use case, the existing eNb infrastructure is being used to give road
traffic participants (RTP) a field of view beyond what V2V, even in
combination with RSUs, could provide.
This use case will supplement V2V direct communication, which will be used in
parallel and will be the only means of communication e.g. in case there is no
network coverage. In the use case described here each road traffic participant
(RTP), sends the CAM/DENM messages also to an entity in the network - the road
traffic server (RTS). The RTS could be centralised, covering an entire country
or decentralised, overlooking only a small geographical area or a combination
of both. If decentralised, RTS need to communicate between each other but this
is out of scope for 3GPP.
The RTS collects data received from the road traffic participants in the area
it is covering and provides data for broadcast by the network. The broadcast
in a certain area would contain data of all road traffic participants in that
area. The area may be constituted of a single cell or several cells. Doing so,
information broadcasted by the network gives RTPs an overview perimeter of the
size of the coverage area beyond the perimeter provided by direct
communication. The broadcast could also contain data of RTP in areas served by
adjacent RTS enlarging the field of view even beyond the current RTS coverage
area.
### 5.26.2 Pre-Conditions
Road traffic participants are equipped with UE able to support both V2V and
V2N communication in parallel. V2N and V2V can be separately subscribed to.
Depending on the deployment model, frequency bands used for V2N may be
different to the bands used for V2V. V2N and V2V may be operated by the same
or different operators.
### 5.26.3 Service Flows
Road traffic participants are broadcasting the ITS defined messages at the
defined repetition rates on the direct link (V2V).
In parallel the ITS messages are transmitted to the road traffic server (RTS),
located in the network. This communication is acknowledged back to the road
traffic participant by the network and thus the repetition rate for the ITS
messages can be lowered. As V2N is a new service and there are no legacy UE or
networks, if necessary, the format of the ITS defined messages could also be
changed for V2N to simplify and to better suit the 3GPP based approach.
The RTS receives ITS messages from road traffic participants in its coverage
area that may be constituted of a single cell, a group of cells or even the
entire network. If several RTS cover one network, they might update each other
about RTPs in their boundary areas. The RTS then selects the relevant messages
from the ITS messages for its coverage area (cell, group of cells) to be
broadcasted to. The function of the RTS and potential communication between
RTS is out of scope for 3GPP.
### 5.26.4 Post-Conditions
Compared to V2V communication a RTP receiving this broadcast gets a much wider
view of other RTPs. It further gives precise and valuable information to the
RTS about traffic flow and conditions level that might be of high value for
traffic steering and control. For both anonymity and privacy, protection
mechanisms need to be provided that can be enabled if required.
### 5.26.5 Potential Requirements
[PR.5.26.5-001] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of transferring V2N Service layer
messages via 3GPP network entities between a UE and a road traffic server with
variable message payload of 50-1200 Bytes.
[PR.5.26.5-002] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of transferring V2N Service layer
messages via 3GPP network entities between a UE and a road traffic server with
a maximum frequency of 10 messages per second and a minimum frequency of 1
message per 100 seconds.
[PR.5.26.5-003] The E-UTRAN shall be capable **of transferring V2N Service
layer messages via 3GPP network entities between** a **UE and receiving UEs
both** supporting V2N applications **with an end-to-end delay no larger than
500 ms**.
[PR.5.26.5-004] The E-UTRAN shall support anonymity, privacy and integrity
protection of communication, if requested by the V2N MNO.
[PR.5.26.5-005] The 3GPP network shall provide means to support the entity to
authorise the UEs supporting V2N Service.
[PR.5.26.5-006] The E-UTRAN shall provide a means to distribute information
received on the V2N service layer messages by the road traffic server in a
resource efficient way to large numbers of UEs on a per cell, group of cells
or network basis.
## 5.27 Remote diagnosis and just in time repair notification
### 5.27.1 Description
A road side unit (RSU) having the capability to access an internet will enable
any passing by vehicle to report about its current functional state to a
local/remote diagnosis center and to receive "Just in time repair
notification" if having subscribed to such service. A Vehicle Service Centre
located at the Car Repair Center needs to obtain and analyze data from the
vehicle periodically. Based on the analysis result, it will notify to the
vehicle owner showing what\'s going on with the vehicle ---in simple language
and images together with some maintenance suggestions. Also the Vehicle owner
also has the ability to initiate the data information collected to be wiped
from the Repair Centre. This will reduce the risk of vehicle failure while
optimizing the vehicle checks only when necessary, it also allows the Vehicle
owner to still have control over their data.
### 5.27.2 Pre-conditions
  * Vehicle Owner: Reads the Vehicle Diagnostic & Maintenance Report sent from the Vehicle Service Centre, the vehicle owner would decide whether to maintain his/her vehicle.
  * UE supports V2N Service: It is embedded in a vehicle, which is used to send information to Vehicle Service Centre and implement diagnostics function from Vehicle Service Centre.
  * Radio Side Unit: As the transmission medium, it supports the collection and transmission of data from the Vehicle to the Repair Center.
  * Vehicle Service Centre: It operates a service platform for diagnostics and maintenance of vehicles, obtains and analyzes the diagnostics data from the vehicle. It will also send vehicle Diagnostic & Maintenance Report in e-mail together with maintenance suggestions to the vehicle owner.
The vehicle supports the diagnostics pre-configured to report the diagnostics
data collected from sensors within the vehicle periodically.
The vehicle engine is turned on and car in operating mode and the service is
subscribed to and has been activated
### 5.27.3 Service Flows
{width="5.863888888888889in" height="2.5805555555555557in"}
Figure 5.27.2-1: Vehicle diagnostics normal flow.
  1. The UE that supports V2N Service collects the diagnostics data from sensors within the vehicle. The diagnostics data (Car Maintenance Records) includes information from Engine and Transmission System, Stability Control System, Air Bag System, Emission System, Antilock Brake System, tyre pressure, life of engine oil, engine and gear-box status, antilock braking system status etc.
  2. When the vehicle passes an RSU, it will transmit the data collected (provided it\'s subscribed to the service) and the application has been initiated.
  3. The RSU will transmit the data to the Vehicle repair center where the data is analyzed and diagnosed.
  4. If for example the Vehicle repair center detects that the Brake pads need to be replaced. It will send maintenance information with possible location for repairs etc, how urgent the repairs needs to be done to the car owner, either via email or directly to the UE that supports V2N.
  5. The vehicle owner can then choose to act on the information or not.
  6. Finally the vehicle owner can issue an application request to also wipe out the data collected and stored in the Diagnostic center.
### 5.27.4 Post-conditions
For normal flow, the vehicle owner maintains his/her vehicle according to the
Diagnostic & Maintenance report on just in time basis.
### 5.27.6 Potential Requirements
[PR.5.27.5-001] UE supporting V2N Service shall be able to transmit periodic
unicast message (e.g., diagnostic data) to an application server.
# 6 Considerations
## 6.1 Consideration on coverage
V2X Service for safety applications shall be supported when vehicles are
served by E-UTRAN which supports V2X Service and when not served by E-UTRAN
which supports V2X Service.
Note 1: When network\'s coordination is not available out of coverage, in high
density situations V2V Service quality may be degraded.
Note 2: When an RSU is implemented in an eNB, V2I Service is not supported
when not served by E-UTRAN which supports V2X Service.
Note 3: V2N service is not supported when vehicles are not served by any of
E-UTRAN, GSM and UTRAN.
## 6.2 Consideration on spectrum
In order not to preclude any scenario, considerations can be given if V2X
Service shall use spectrum dedicated to V2X or if it can co-exist in spectrum
shared with non-V2X applications. Regarding spectrum usage, five aspects can
be considered whether V2X service is using shared spectrum, designated
spectrum, single versus multiple MNOs, overlapping/non-overlapping MNO areas
and operators ownership of V2X spectrum. Detailed spectrum usage options can
be found in Annex B.
One of the desirable operating models for V2V service using direct
communication is in unified and dedicated spectrum at least regionally
harmonised.
If V2X safety services co-exist in spectrum shared with other 3GPP-defined
services, 3GPP network should consider prioritization between V2X safety
services and other services in radio resource allocation.
## 6.3 Consideration on security
### 6.3.1 Anonymity and integrity protection
It should be noted that there are requirements requiring the support of
integrity protection and user, subscriber, & UE anonymity.
Any mechanism chosen to address the anonymity requirement should allow for
temporary traceability. This is necessary in order to enable path-prediction
algorithms to be run (for short distances) by UEs supporting V2V Services.
Any solution chosen to satisfy the requirements for Integrity Protection
should not negatively impact the ability of the system to offer anonymity of
the user, subscriber, and vehicle, with temporary traceability.
### 6.3.2 Confidentiality
It should be noted that there are requirements requiring confidentiality
protection of unicast V2X messages. For V2X messages that are broadcast,
integrity protection is sufficient---no confidentiality is required since they
are meant to be widely received (i.e., by any UE supporting V2X Services in
range).
### 6.3.3 Non-repudiation
It should be noted that there are no requirements requiring non-repudiation,
however non-repudiation may be desired for broadcast messages, i.e., a UE
supporting V2X Services which sent a malicious/incorrect safety message cannot
deny that it sent that message.
### 6.3.4 MNO licensed spectrum
Editor\'s Note: The following requirements apply for licensed spectrum. Other
spectrum needs further study.
It should be considered that the MNO network performs the authentication and
authorization of UEs for V2V Service.
It should be considered that the MNO network be responsible for the security
parameter management for the V2V security mechanism on the radio interface.
## 6.4 Consideration on mobility
Consideration can be given to the impact on mobility management signalling by
the introduction of a large number of UEs supporting V2X Service.
## 6.5 Consideration on future-proofness
Effectiveness of V2X service is maximized when each vehicle can communicate
with all nearby vehicles. The existence of a single vehicle which is not
communicable will make V2X service less useful to nearby V2X-capable vehicles.
Thus, the scenario where two vehicles supporting V2X service cannot
communicate with each other should be avoided. Consideration should be given
to support of LTE-based V2X Services, given long-term changes in operating
spectrum. In addition, consideration should be given to interoperability
between LTE-based V2X Services and those provided by later generation of 3GPP
access.
## 6.6 Consideration for V2X deployment
Various options exist for deployment of V2X scenarios. Annex D includes
deployment examples.
# 7 Potential Requirements
## 7.1 General
Text to be provided.
## 7.2 Consolidated Requirements
[CPR-001] The 3GPP network shall provide a means for the MNO to authorize UE
supporting V2X Service to perform V2X Service over 3GPP network.
[CPR-002] The 3GPP network shall provide a means (e.g., pre-authorization) for
the MNO to authorize UE supporting V2X Service to perform V2X Service when not
served by E-UTRAN.
[CPR-003] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a high density of UEs
supporting V2X Service.
[CPR-004] Both the HPLMN and VPLMN operators shall be able to charge for
network resource usage when V2X messages are transferred by a UE supporting
V2X Service.
[CPR-005] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of supporting a communication range
sufficient to give the driver(s) ample response time (e.g. 4 seconds) even
when an RSU is involved.
[CPR-006] The V2X message transmission shall be under control of the 3GPP
network when the transmitting UE is served by the E-UTRAN.
[CPR-007] The 3GPP network shall be able to provide means to prioritize V2X
message transmission among UEs supporting V2X Service.
[CPR-008] The 3GPP network shall be able to provide means to prioritize
transmission of V2X messages according to their type (e.g. safety vs. non-
safety).
[CPR-009] The 3GPP network shall provide a means to pre-configure UE for the
usage of the radio resources associated with the E-UTRA(N).
[CPR-010] For UE supporting V2X Service with limited resources (e.g.,
battery), the impact on the resources (e.g., battery consumption) of V2X
message transfer should be minimized.
[CPR-011] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support a maximum frequency of 10 V2X
messages per second per V2X entity (e.g., UE and RSU).
[CPR-012] A UE supporting V2X Service shall be able to transmit and receive
V2X messages from other UEs supporting V2X Service in different PLMNs.
[CPR-013] The 3GPP system shall be able to support V2X message transfer
between UEs whether or not, served by the same PLMN supporting V2X Service.
[CPR-014] The E-UTRA(N) shall be capable of transferring V2X messages between
two UEs supporting V2V/P Service, directly or via an RSU, with a maximum
latency of 100ms.
[CPR-015] For particular usage (i.e., pre-crash sensing) only, the E-UTRA(N)
should be capable of transferring V2X messages between two UEs supporting V2V
Service with a maximum latency of 20ms.
[CPR-016] The E-UTRA(N) shall be capable of transferring V2X messages between
a UE supporting V2I Service and an RSU with a maximum latency of 100ms.
[CPR-017] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of transferring V2X messages via 3GPP
network entities between a UE and an application server both supporting V2N
Service with an end-to-end delay no longer than 1000 ms.
[CPR-018] The 3GPP network should make available any supported positional
accuracy improvement techniques (e.g., DGPS and/or OTDOA) in a resource
efficient way to a subscribed UE supporting V2X Service.
[CPR-019] The E-UTRA(N) shall be capable of transferring periodic broadcast
messages between two UEs supporting V2X Services with variable message
payloads of 50-300 bytes, not including security-related message component.
[CPR-020] The E-UTRA(N) shall be capable of transferring event-triggered
messages between two UEs supporting V2X Services with variable message
payloads which can be up to 1200 bytes, not including security-related message
component.
[CPR-021] A UE supporting V2X Service shall be able to transmit and receive
V2X messages when not served by E-UTRAN.
[CPR-022] A UE using V2I application shall be able to receive a V2X message
from an RSU, even when the RSU implemented as a UE is out of coverage or when
the RSU implemented as an eNB is operating as an isolated eNB.
[CPR-023] A UE supporting V2X Service shall be able to transmit V2X messages,
in a periodic or even-triggered manner, if requested by V2X Service layer.
[CPR-024] An RSU shall be able to transmit V2X messages to a UE supporting V2X
Service, if requested by the V2X Service layer.
[CPR-025] An RSU shall be able to deliver V2X messages to an application
server and/or to other RSUs, if requested by the V2X Service layer.
[CPR-026] The 3GPP system shall be able to vary the transmission rate and
coverage area based on service conditions (e.g., UE speed, UE density).
[CPR-027] The E-UTRA(N) shall be able to support high reliability without
requiring application-layer message retransmissions.
[CPR-028] The 3GPP system shall support the anonymity of UE supporting V2X
Service and the integrity protection of the transmission.
[CPR-029] 3GPP system should be able to support driver and vehicle privacy, by
ensuring that a vehicle cannot be tracked or identified by any other vehicle
beyond a certain short time-period required by the application.
[CPR-030] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of transferring V2X messages between
UEs supporting V2V Service with a maximum relative velocity of 280 km/h.
[CPR-031] The E-UTRAN shall be capable of transferring V2X messages between UE
supporting V2V and/or V2P Service and between UEs and RSU supporting V2V
and/or V2I Service with a maximum absolute velocity of 160 km/h.
[CPR-032] The 3GPP network shall provide a means for the MNO to authorize UE
supporting V2X Service separately to perform V2N Service.
[CPR-033] The 3GPP system shall be able to distribute information in a
resource efficient way to large numbers of UEs.
# 8 Conclusion and Recommendations
The Feasibility Study for LTE support for V2X service (V2XLTE) Technical
Report analyses a number of use cases of V2X for both safety use and non-
safety use. The use cases address three key categories of V2X:
  * Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V),
  * Vehicle-to-Infrastructure/Network (V2I/V2N), and
  * Vehicle-to-Pedestrian.
Taking into account the Use Cases and Scenarios in Clause 5, potential
requirements for the operations of UE supporting V2X Service and roadside unit
(RSU), which can be implemented in the form of either stationary UE or eNB,
have been identified. These potential requirements have been summarised as a
set of consolidated potential requirements as captured in the previous clause.
It is recommended that the potential requirements identified in this TR are
considered for the development of normative requirements.
###### ### Annex A: Example parameters
Table A.1 shows some example link-layer parameters for V2X communication which
cover a variety of scenarios. It should be noted that there are various
variables involved in these scenarios both physical (e.g. relative speed,
effective range), incidental (e.g. line-of-sight occlusion), and service
related (e.g. maximum tolerable latency, minimum application layer message
reception reliability). These parameters need to be managed as designing the
system in such a way as to meet all of the most stringent criteria places an
unnecessary burden on the system.
These parameters can be derived from the principle that there should be more
than 95% probability that the vehicle has received at least one V2X message
from two consecutive V2X messages notifying it of the impending incident.
In the cases where this is not possible (e.g. a new incident is presented with
an event horizon closer than TTC=4s), it is presumed that due to the
relatively closer proximity of this incident, the reliability of the radio
layer will provide an increased probability to deliver the V2X message to the
vehicle in a timely manner.
Table A.1: Example parameters for V2X Services
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ####### | Ef | A | R | Maximum | Minimum | Example | | ## {#s | fective | bsolute | elative | to | radio | Cum | | ection} | dis | speed | speed | lerable | layer | ulative | | | tance* | of a UE | between | latency | message | trans | | | | sup | 2 UEs | | re | mission | | | | porting | sup | | ception | rel | | | | V2X | porting | | reli | iabilit | | | | S | V2X | | ability | y*** | | | | ervices | S | | (prob | | | | | | ervices | | ability | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | cipient | | | | | | | | gets it | | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | | 100ms) | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | ef | | | | | | | | fective | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | istance | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | #1 | 200m | 50km/h | 100km/h | 100ms | 90% | 99% | | ( | | | | | | | | suburba | | | | | | | | n/major | | | | | | | | road) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | #2 | 320m | 160km/h | 280km/h | 100ms | 80% | 96% | | (fre | | | | | | | | eway/mo | | | | | | | | torway) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | #3 | 320m | 280km/h | 280km/h | 100ms | 80% | 96% | | (au | | | | | | | | tobahn) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | #4 | 150m | 50km/h | 100km/h | 100ms | 90% | 99% | | (NLOS / | | | | | | | | urban) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | #5 | 50m | 50km/h | 100km/h | 100ms | 95% | - | | (urban | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | ersecti | | | | | | | | on**) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | #6 | 50m | 30km/h | 30km/h | 100ms | 90% | 99% | | ( | | | | | | | | campus/ | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | hopping | | | | | | | | area) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | #7 | 20m | 80km/h | 160km/h | 20ms\ | 95% | - | | I | | | | **** | | | | mminent | | | | | | | | crash | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Note*: Effective range is greater than range required to support TTC=4s at
maximum relative speed. This is such that multiple V2X transmissions are
required to increase the cumulative (overall, effective, or final)
transmission reliability.
Note**: This scenario represents the scenario where a new incident presents
itself at a short range, requiring a high level of reliability for short range
radio transmissions to ensure timely message delivery, thus a cumulative
transmission reliability may not be appropriate.
Note***: Example shown for 2 transmissions, for the statistical assumptions
leading to a probability of 1 -- (1-p)^2^, where p is the probability of
reception at the radio layer. V2X application layer requires a consecutive
packet loss no more than 5%. If probability that a single V2X application
layer message is lost is less than 20%, the requirement of less than 5%
consecutive packet loss is met. Due to PHY retransmissions and the rapid
cadence of application layer transmissions, the reliability as viewed from the
application layer will be increased from the numbers as stated in this column.
Note****: The 20ms requirement might be treated with lower priority compared
to the other requirements.
Note: # 1 (suburban/major road): arterial road where vehicles move fairly fast
but slower than in freeway/motorway.
###### ### Annex B: Spectrum usage options for LTE-based V2X
In the following, aspects affecting spectrum usage options for LTE-based V2X
are listed.
  * Aspect 1: (void)
  * Aspect 2: Designated Spectrum (for V2X)
    * 2A: A spectrum on which V2X Service can be provided is designated for use only by V2X
    * 2B: A spectrum on which V2X Service can be provided is not only designated to V2X but also to other services.
```{=html}
``` \- Aspect 3: Multi-operator / Single operator
    -   3A: In one region, several operators provide V2X Service.
    -   3B: In one region, no more than one operator provides V2X
        Service.
  * Aspect 4: Overlapping / Non Overlapping MNO areas (in case of multi operators environments)
    * 4A: In some part of one region, service area of one operator overlaps with service area of other operators providing V2X Service
    * 4B: In one region, service area of different operators does not overlap.
  * Aspect 5:
    * 5A: Operator designating part of its own spectrum for V2X Service.
    * 5B: Operators do not use own spectrum for V2X Service
###### ### Annex C: Density of UEs
Modern traffic modeling research shows that there is a connection between
traffic density and vehicle speed: Generally speaking, the more vehicles are
on a road, the slower their speeds are. To allow for operation in realistic
environments, V2X Services should be supported under high vehicle density with
low speed.
###### ### Annex D: V2X deployment examples
### D.1 Infrastructure-less V2X operation
In this scenario, UEs can communicate with each other directly using the V2X
spectrum.
In order to support this scenario, UEs are configured with the same parameters
for the V2X communication. Mechanisms defined for the ProSe out of coverage
communication parameter provisioning can be reused. It is expected that UE
will obtain new parameters for V2X communication from the network as soon as
it enters into network coverage.
It is also expected that when operating in this scenario, only some of the V2X
use cases described in clause 5 can be supported because of the absence of
mobile network and subscription verification. For example, V2N services cannot
be supported. A pre-configured service set for this scenario may be supported
based on standards or regulatory requirements.
### D.2 Multi-MNOs shared V2X services scenario
This scenario is similar to the existing mobile network deployment, i.e.
multiple MNOs offer V2X services to their subscribers. Each UE is under the
control of a seperate MNO and the UEs are controlled by their MNOs for the
access to the V2X spectrum and services. As the UEs have subscriptions from
different MNOs, the different MNOs ensure that the UEs can transmit to and
receive from UEs of other MNOs. E.g. broadcast UE configurations via system
information announcements, or via dedicated signaling for the individual UE.
All the services described in clause 5 can be supported with this scenario,
subject to UE subscription authorization.
It should be noted that for this scenario, when the UE goes out of coverage,
it would fall back to the infrastructure-less case as discussed in Annex X.1.
Therefore, the configurations from the MNOs may also contain the necesary
parameters to support out of coverage operation.
### D.3 Single MNO managed V2X scenario
In this scenario, a single mobile operator is granted the ownership/lease of
the V2X spectrum and thus manages the V2X services.
This scenario requires all V2X UE to have a valid subscription to the MNO that
manages the V2X spectrum. Alternatively, the MNO that manages the V2X spectrum
would need to allow other subscription to other MNOs to be used in V2X
authorization.
The scenario can be futher divided into two subcases: a) split control, and b)
co-channel deployment. In the split control subcase, the control channel for
the V2X service access is provided in the MNO\'s WAN spectrum. In this case,
only V2X services transmissions can occur in the V2X spectrum. In the co-
channel deployment subcase, the control of the V2X services is also performed
over the WAN spectrum.
All the services described in clause 5 can be supported with this scenario,
subject to UE subscription authorization.
Similarly, for this deployment scenario, when the UE goes out of coverage, it
would also fall back to the infrastructure-less case.
###### ### Annex E: Intersection safety for pedestrian via vehicle to
infrastructure communication
### E.1 Description
> VRUs are detected and/or tracked by sensors (e.g. camera\'s, loops)
> installed at the roadside infrastructure monitoring the (signalized)
> intersection. The RSU is connected to this monitoring system. The monitoring
> system is able to track VRUs and determine their location and speed. The RSU
> receives awareness messages from vehicle UEs and performs risk assessment to
> identify potential collision risks between VRUs and vehicles and sends
> warnings to the vehicle drivers via the vehicle UE. The pedestrian detection
> can also be part of the traffic light infrastructure at a signalized
> intersection. The information on pedestrian presence or cyclists at the
> crossing is included in the signal status messages transmitted over V2X to
> vehicle UEs, in case of optional conflicts.
### E.2 Pre-conditions
  * The vehicle UE and RSU support V2X Services and can receive V2X messages.
  * The vehicle UE sends periodically awareness messages.
  * The vehicle UE is in proximity of RSU i.e. within each other\'s V2X communication range.
```{=html}
``` \- The VRU is within the detection range of the monitoring system
connected to the RSU.
### E.3 Service Flows
  1. The intersection monitoring system builds a dynamic map with all road users around the intersection, both the road users detected by the monitoring system and the road users transmitting V2X messages.
  2. For collision avoidance, the monitoring system performs risk assessment to detect a potential conflict.
  3. At a potential conflict, the RSU broadcasts a (I2V) warning message to the vehicle UE.
  4. The vehicle UE receives the I2V warning message, and the driver can be informed
### E.4 Post-conditions
The vehicle driver is warned and can take actions to avoid a potential
collision.
#