# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
User Location Information (ULI) is an important service in current mobile
telecommunication services, e.g., emergency situation, charging, lawful
interception, commercial push service. However, some operators may choose not
to deploy the LCS function.\< The TR will study how to enhance the location
reporting capability for determining the location of users.
# Scope
The objective is to provide details about the possible scenarios and use cases
where there is a need of enhanced user location reporting when the LCS
function, as specified in 3GPP TS 22.071 [2], is not deployed. This study also
aims to identify potential new requirements to fulfil the use cases and the
potential interactions with existing location reporting procedures.
The service requirements will include the following aspects:
\- Support for flexible and controllable location reporting policy (e.g.,
restrict location reporting to chosen times during the day);
\- Consideration on tailored location reporting (e.g., to report the number of
users with certain common characteristics in the area).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.071: \"Location Services (LCS); Service description; Stage 1\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Focus Area** : The Focus Area (FA) is defined as an area in which a mobile
station may move freely without triggering an update in the core network. A
Focus Area (FA) includes one or several GERAN/UTRAN/E-UTRAN cells.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
LCS Location Service
FA Focus Area
# 4 Use Cases
## 4.1 Use case on pre-configured location reporting time
### 4.1.1 Description
This use case describes the scenario where the location reporting time could
be pre-configured by the network.
### 4.1.2 Pre-conditions
The 3GPP core network supports obtaining the UE's cell information at chosen
time points through the location reporting procedure in the network in which
the LCS function is not supported. This procedure should not cause much
signalling load to the network.
There is a primary school in cell A and a gymnasium in cell B. On the
weekdays, Alice should be in the primary school in cell A from 9:00 to 15:30,
and in the gymnasium to take the basketball class from 16:30 to 17:30. Alice's
parents want to know whether Alice is in the correct cell at certain time
points, so they sign an agreement with the MNO to provide Alice's cell
information at chosen time points, such as 9:00, 12:00, 15:00 and 17:00.
### 4.1.3 Service Flows
On the weekdays, at any pre-configured time point, e.g., 9:00, the core
network could initiate the location reporting procedure to obtain the cell
information of Alice's UE.
### 4.1.4 Post-conditions
The core network obtains cell information of Alice's UE at a pre-configured
time point, e.g., 9:00.
On the weekdays, the network provides the cell information of Alice's UE at
pre-configured time point to her parents.
NOTE: How the network exposes the location information is not in the scope of
this study.
### 4.1.5 Potential Requirements
The 3GPP core network shall be able to initiate the location reporting
procedure to obtain UE's cell information at pre-configured time points in the
network in which the LCS function is not supported.
The 3GPP core network needs to be optimized to reduce the signaling load
caused by the location reporting procedure.
## 4.2 Use case on tailored location reporting
### 4.2.1 Description
This use case describes the scenario where the network could obtain the
information of interested users with certain common characteristics rather
than all the users in the area through the location reporting procedure.
The definition of the subscribers' characteristics should be based on the
subscribers' data, e.g., the subscriber priority status such as gold, silver
or bronze subscription.
### 4.2.2 Pre-conditions
The network supports obtaining the location information of users with common
characteristics through the location reporting procedure.
There is a shopping mall located in Cell A. The network wants to push a
restaurant's introduction and discount information of the shopping mall to the
gold subscribers in cell A at the lunch time.
### 4.2.3 Service Flows
At 11:30, the network decides to push the restaurant's introduction and
discount information of the shopping mall to the gold subscribers in cell A.
The network initiates the location reporting procedure to report which gold
subscribers are in cell A. The network obtains the list of all the gold
subscribers in cell A.
The network pushes the restaurant's introduction and discount information to
these gold subscribers in cell A.
### 4.2.4 Post-conditions
All the gold subscribers in cell A receive the pushed information.
### 4.2.5 Potential Requirements
When LCS system is not deployed, the 3GPP core network shall be able to
determine which users with common characteristics are within defined cell or
cells.
### 4.2.6 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
All gold subscribers in cell A could also receive the information through Cell
Broadcast technology. Cell Broadcast is location specific and the Message
Identifier IE is one possible means to distinguish target groups.
## 4.3 Use case on Focus Area based location reporting
### 4.3.1 Description
This use case describes the scenario where the 3GPP core network could be
informed when the UE enters or leaves the Focus Area (FA) through location
reporting procedure.
### 4.3.2 Pre-conditions
The 3GPP core network supports defining Focus Area which may consist of one or
several cells for certain UE. The 3GPP core network also supports initiating
the location reporting procedure based on the Focus Area.
There is a coffee shop in the shopping mall A. This shopping mall A is covered
by several cells which constitute a Focus Area. The coffee shop signs an
agreement with the operator to push advertisements to the coffee shop's VIP
members when they enter into this Focus Area.
Bob is a VIP member of the coffee shop and signs an agreement with the coffee
shop that he is willing to receive the advertisements and discount
information.
Alice is not a VIP member of the coffee shop.
### 4.3.3 Service Flows
When Bob enters the Focus Area, the 3GPP core network could be informed of
this event.
The 3GPP core network pushes the advertisements of the coffee shop to Bob.
When Bob leaves the Focus Area, the 3GPP core network could be informed of
this event.
The 3GPP core network does not push the advertisements of the coffee shop to
Bob any more.
When Alice enters or leaves the Focus Area, the 3GPP core network would not be
informed of the event and would not push the advertisements of the coffee shop
to her .
### 4.3.4 Post-conditions
When Bob enters the Focus Area, he will receive the advertisements of the
coffee shop. After he leaves the Focus Area, he will not receive any pushed
information about the coffee shop.
When Alice enters this Focus Area, she will not receive any pushed information
about the coffee shop.
### 4.3.5 Potential Requirements
The 3GPP core network shall be able to define the Focus Area for certain
service offered to a subscriber.
Subject to regional regulatory requirements, the 3GPP core network shall be
notified when the UE either in connected mode or the idle mode enters or
leaves the Focus Area.
# 5 Considerations
## 5.1 Considerations on security and privacy
Location information needs to be provided in a secure manner.
The 3GPP system shall be able to ensure that the user's identity is not
provided to the 3^rd^ party according to operator's policies to maintain the
user's information privacy and respecting regulatory requirements.
## 5.2 Considerations on charging
There may be impact on charging aspects to the person or the third party who
needs the location information e.g., accounting and usage information due to
eULRS triggered location reporting.
## 5.3 Considerations on congestion
When the overload condition happens in core network, if it's not the critical
location service, the core network shall be able to delay the procedure to
obtain the users' location information.
When the overload condition happens in RAN, if it's not the critical location
service, the RAN shall be able to reject a location request by indicating
congestion.
NOTE: Whether the location service is critical or not could be decided by the
MNO or the third party who needs this location service. The location service
type should be provided in the location service subscription.
# 6 Potential Requirements
When the LCS system is not deployed, the 3GPP core network shall be able to
obtain a user's cell-level location at pre-configured time points.
When the LCS system is not deployed, the 3GPP core network shall be able to
determine which users with common characteristics are covered by a defined
cell or cells.
The 3GPP core network shall be able to define the Focus Area for a certain
service offered to a subscriber.
Subject to regional regulatory requirements, the 3GPP core network shall be
notified when the user either in connected mode or the idle mode enters or
leaves the Focus Area.
# 7 Conclusions
The study has identified several use cases where the 3GPP system has to
enhance the user location reporting procedure, when LCS system is not
deployed. It has also resulted in a set of potential requirements as captured
in the previous section.
It is recommended that the requirements in this TR are taken as a basis for
the development of normative requirements.
#