# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1\. Scope
The present document aims to identify the market segments and verticals whose
needs 3GPP should focus on meeting, and to identify groups of related use
cases and requirements that the 3GPP eco-system would need to support in the
future. This is a very broad and wide-ranging endeavour. As a result, the work
will be organised so that a subset of distinct work/study items with clearly
focussed objectives are executed in each stage of the work.
This study will develop several use cases covering various scenarios and
identify the related high-level potential requirements which can be derived
from them. It will identify and group together use cases with common
characteristics and propose a few, e.g. 3-4, use cases (or groups of use cases
with common characteristics) for further development in the next stage of the
work.
**Analysis will also be made on which legacy services and requirements from
the existing 3GPP systems need to be included, if fallback mechanisms to them
need to be developed, or if fallback is not necessary.**
The focus of this work is on the use cases and requirements that cannot be met
with EPS. Use cases identified as applicable for EPS are outside the scope of
this study and are expected to be progressed independently of it.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] NGMN 5G White Paper v1.0
[3] China IMT2020 (5G) Promotion Group white paper \"5G Vision and
Requirements\" May 2014.
[4] 3GPP TR 36.913 v12.0.0. \"Requirements for further advancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA), Release 12\"
[5] China IMT2020 (5G) Promotion Group white paper \"5G Concept\" February
2015.
[6] 4G Americas\' Recommendations on 5G Requirements and Solutions, October
2014.
[7] FP7 COMBO, \"Requirement for converged fixed and mobile networks\",
deliverable, D2.4, June, 2014, available at [http://ict-
combo.eu/data/uploads/pdf-
combo-v2/combo_d2.4_wp4_20june2014_tid_v2.0_sec.pdf]{.underline}
[8] 3GPP TS 22.105, \"Services and service capabilities\".
[9] [http://www.ravepubs.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/Almo-G4-UHD-
Presentation-PDF-v1.pdf]{.underline}
[10] GSMA, \"Understanding 5G: perspectives on future technological
advancements in mobile\", Dec., 2014.
[11] Requirements and Current Solutions of Wireless Communication in
Industrial Automation, A. Frotzscher et al., IEEE ICC'14 -- W8: Workshop on 5G
Technologies, 2014
[12] Design of a Low-Latency, High-Reliability Wireless Communication System
for Control Applications, M. Weiner et al., IEEE ICC 2014 -- Selected Ares in
Communications Symposium, 2014.
[13] Funding project BMBF by German government on wireless Factory Automation
(2014), [http://www.bmbf.de/foerderungen/22967.php]{.underline}
[14] Unplugged but Connected: Design and Implementation of a Truly Wireless
Real-Time Sensor/Actuator Interface, G. Scheible et al, IEEE Industrial
Electronics Magazine, 2007[15] Wireless Sensors in Industrial Time-Critical
Environments, Jose Cecilio & Pedro Furtado, Springer, ISBN 978-3-31-02888-8
[16] WirelessHART versus ISA100.11a: The Format War Hits the Factory Floor, S.
Peterson & S. Carlsen, IEEE Industrial Electronics Magazine, Dec 2011.
[17] Wireless Industrial Monitoring and Control Networks: The Journey So Far
and the Road Ahead, P. Zand et al, J. Sens. Actuator Netw. 2012.
[18] Performance Evaluation of WirelessHART for Factory Automation, S.
Petersen & S. Carlson, IEEE Emerging Technologies & Factory Automation, 2009.
[19] Industrial Wireless Sensor Networks, ON World,
[www.onworld.com]{.underline}, 2010
[20] Coexistence of Wireless Systems in Automation Technology, ZVEI - German
Electrical and Electronic Manufacturers' Association, 2009.
[21] China IMT2020 (5G) Promotion Group. \"5G Network Technology
Architecture\" May 2015
[22] European Commission's 5G PPP \"5G Vision\", Feb. 2015.
[www.5g-ppp.eu]{.underline}.
[23] About Portable SIM. [https://goo.gl/fLEqb4]{.underline}
[24] M.C. Batistatos, G.V. Tsoulos, G.E. Athanasiadou, \"Mobile Telemedicine
for Moving Vehicle Scenarios: Wireless Technology Options and Challenges\",
Journal of Network and Computer Applications, vol. 35, pp.1140-1150, May 2012.
[25] Summary of Deliverable 1.5: Updated scenarios, requirements and KPIs for
5G mobile and wireless system with recommendations for future investigations,
May 2015, [https://www.metis2020.com/wp-
content/uploads/deliverables/METIS_D1.5_Summary.pdf]{.underline}
[26] Report ITU-R M.2282-0, \"Systems for public mobile communications with
aircraft M Series Mobile, radiodetermination, amateur and related satellite
services\".
(https://www.itu.int/dms_pub/itu-r/opb/rep/R-REP-M.2282-2013-MSW-E.docx)
[27] Cisco Visual Networking Index: Global Mobile Data Traffic Forecast Update
2014-2019 White Paper, Table 6
([http://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/solutions/collateral/service-provider/visual-
networking-index-vni/white_paper_c11-520862.html]{.underline})
[28] ARIB 2020 and Beyond Ad Hoc Group White Paper, October 2014.
[http://www.arib.or.jp/english/20bah-wp-100.pdf]{.underline}
[29] RP-142307, \"New SI proposal: Study on performance enhancements for high
speed scenario in LTE,\" NTT DOCOMO, INC., Huawei, HiSilicon, Dec. 2014.
[30] 3GPP TR 22.861, \"Feasibility Study on New Services and Markets
Technology Enablers for Massive Internet of Things; Stage 1\".
[31] 3GPP TR 22.862, \"Feasibility Study on New Services and Markets
Technology Enablers - Critical Communications; Stage 1\"
[32] 3GPP TR 22.863, \"Feasibility Study on New Services and Markets
Technology Enablers - Enhanced Mobile Broadband; Stage 1\"
[33] 3GPP TR 22.864, \"Feasibility Study on New Services and Markets
Technology Enablers - Network Operation; Stage 1\"
> [34] GSA 5G Verticals Series - Education.
> http://gsacom.com/paper/5g-verticals-education/
> https://community.jisc.ac.uk/sites/default/files/Education-VM_Extended.pdf
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Communication efficiency:** refers to spectrum efficiency (bits/s/Hz) and/or
energy efficiency (bits/J, or vs. LTE) and/or network resource efficiency
([TBD])
**Connection density (UEs/km** ^2^**):** number of UEs connected to the \ over a given area.
**End-to-end latency (ms):** time it takes to transfer a given piece of
information from a source to a destination, measured at the application level,
from the moment it is transmitted by the source to the moment it is received
at the destination.
**Mobility (km/h):** Absolute speed of a UE.
**Peak data rate (bps):** ideal data rate at the radio layer i.e. under ideal
radio conditions. Direction (downlink, uplink) to be defined.
**Processing time (ms):** time it takes to process a given piece of data in a
given node, for further action. The node needs to be defined.
**Radio Interface Technology (RIT):** Type of technology used for radio
communication between two or more devices, without limitation to the
functional capability or the purpose of the communication. A RIT may be used
to provide a traditional access function, a backhaul function, a direct
device-to-device (D2D) function between peers, or multiple such functions. A
RIT may also support a variety of different communication modes (e.g.,
unicast, multicast, broadcast) and/or topologies (e.g., point-to-point, star,
tree, or mesh).
**Reliability (%):** the amount of sent network layer packets successfully
delivered to a given node within the time constraint required by the targeted
service, divided by the total number of sent network layer packets.
**Round-trip-time (ms):** time it takes to transfer a given piece of data
between two nodes, to process the piece of data at the receiving node, and to
transfer an acknowledgement status back to the transmitting node, measured
from the moment the piece of data is transmitted to the moment the
acknowledgement status is received. This does not assume correct reception of
either the piece of data or the acknowledgement status. (I.e. it is the sum of
transmission delay from the transmitting node to the receiving node,
processing time at the receiving node, and transmission delay from the
receiving node to the transmitting node). Nodes need to be defined.
**Transmission delay (ms):** time it takes to transfer a given piece of data
between two nodes, measured from the moment it is transmitted to the moment it
is received. This does not assume correct reception. Nodes need to be defined.
**Traffic density (bps/km** ^2^**):** total traffic over a given area.
Direction (downlink, uplink) to be defined when applicable.
**User experienced data rate (bps):** data rate averaged over a given duration
(to be defined), in a given direction (uplink or downlink), measured at the
transport layer or above. Direction (downlink, uplink) to be defined.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Overview
The proposed use cases can be largely classified into five categories as
below.
1) Enhanced Mobile Broadband
\- e.g. Mobile Broadband, UHD / Hologram, High-mobility, Virtual Presence
2) Critical Communications
\- e.g. Interactive Game / Sports, Industrial Control, Drone / Robot /
Vehicle, Emergency
3) Massive Machine Type Communications
\- e.g. Subway / Stadium Service, eHealth, Wearables, Inventory Control
4) Network Operation
\- e.g. Network Slicing, Routing, Migration and Interworking, Energy Saving
5) Enhancement of Vehicle-to-Everything
\- e.g. Autonomous Driving, safety and non-safety aspects associated with
vehicle
Conceptual diagrams depicting these FS_SMARTER service dimensions appear
below. Each of the 5 axes represents the directions of service improvements
that FS_SMARTER is proposing.
Figure 4-1: FS_SMARTER service dimension
# 5 Use Cases
## 5.1 Ultra-reliable communications
### 5.1.1 Description
In order to enable certain services related to ultra-highly reliable
communications, a minimal level of reliability and latency is required to
guarantee the user experience and/or enable the service initially. This is
especially important in areas like eHealth or for critical infrastructure
communications.
Mission critical communication services require preferential handling compared
to normal telecommunication services, e.g. in support of police or fire
brigade.
Examples of mission critical services include:
\- Industrial control systems (from sensor to actuator, very low latency for
some applications)
\- Mobile Health Care, remote monitoring, diagnosis and treatment (high rates
and availability)
\- Real time control of vehicles, road traffic, accident prevention (location,
vector, context, low Round Trip Time RTT)
\- Wide area monitoring and control systems for smart grids
\- Communication of critical information with preferential handling for public
safety scenarios
\- Multimedia Priority Service (MPS) providing priority communications to
authorized users for national security and emergency preparedness
Overall, mission critical services are expected to require significant
improvements in end-to-end latency, ubiquity, security, robustness, and
availability/reliability compared to UMTS/LTE/WiFi.
**Pre-conditions**
The different substations of a power system are connected to operator A's
network to provide automated measurements and automated fault detection to
prevent large scale outage.
**Service Flows**
1\. Substations connect to the operator A network
2\. Operator A determines this is a mission critical device and configures the
network based on the mission critical service requirements
3\. Substations report periodic measurements with a given reliability and
latency
4\. In case of a fault or degraded operation -- substation reports fault or
degraded operation with a second reliability and latency
5\. In the case of a power grid, the power system reacts and may shutdown or
divert power from this substation or other substations in the vicinity
**Post-conditions**
The power system can optimize performance due to periodic measurements. A
potential disaster is averted due to the substation reporting in time.
### 5.1.2 Potential Service Requirements
Services in this category require very low data error rate. Some of them also
require very low latency, i.e. for industrial automation with 1ms delay.
### 5.1.3 Potential Operational Requirements
The 3GPP system shall support efficient multiplexing of mission critical
traffic and nominal traffic.
The 3GPP system shall limit the duration of service interruption for mission
critical traffic.
The 3GPP system shall support improved reliability and latency as defined in
table 5.1-1.
Subject to regional regulatory requirements, the 3GPP system shall support a
mechanism to provide end-to-end integrity and confidentiality protection for
user data,
The 3GPP system shall provide significant improvements in end-to-end latency,
ubiquity, security, and availability/reliability compared to UMTS/EPS/WiFi.
Table 5.1-1: Example mission critical use cases
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sample use case | Description | Critical | | | | Requirements | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Substation | Automates fault | Latency: as low as 1 | | protection and | detection and | ms end-to-end | | control | isolation to prevent | | | | large scale power | Packet loss rate: as | | | outage | low as 1e-04 | | | | | | | For example, Merging | Transmission | | | Units (MUs) perform | frequency: 80 | | | periodic | samples/cycle for | | | measurements of | protection | | | power system | applications. 256 | | | components, and send | samples/ cycle for | | | sampled measurement | quality analysis & | | | data to a Protection | recording | | | Relay. When the | | | | Protection Relay | Data rate: | | | detects a fault, it | \~12.5Mbps per MU at | | | sends signals to | 256 samples/cycle | | | trip circuit | | | | breakers. | Range: provide | | | | coverage to the | | | | substation | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Smart grid system | A smart grid system | Performance | | with distributed | aims at improving | requirements are | | sensors and | the efficiency of | derived from EC FP7 | | management | energy distribution | project METIS | | | and requires prompt | Deliverable D.1.1: | | | reaction in | | | | reconfiguring the | - Throughput: from | | | smart grid network | 200 to 1521 bytes | | | in response to | reliably delivered | | | unforeseen events. | in 8 ms, | | | | | | | | - One trip time | | | | latency between any | | | | two communicating | | | | points should be | | | | less than 8 ms for | | | | event-triggered | | | | message that may | | | | occur anytime. | | | | | | | | - Device density: | | | | dense urban hundreds | | | | of UEs per square | | | | km; urban: around 15 | | | | UEs per square km; | | | | populated rural: max | | | | 1 UE per squared km. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Public Safety | Operation of first | Public Safety | | | responders in case | requires | | | of fire or other | preferential | | | kind of emergency | handling of its | | | situation. | traffic. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Multimedia Priority | Priority | MPS requires | | Service (MPS) | communications to | preferential | | | authorized national | handling, and | | | security and | priority treatment. | | | emergency | | | | preparedness (NS/EP) | | | | users in times of | | | | disasters and | | | | emergency. | | | | Authorized NS/EP | | | | users have to rely | | | | on public network | | | | services when the | | | | communication | | | | capability of the | | | | serving network may | | | | be impaired, for | | | | example due to | | | | congestion or | | | | partial network | | | | infrastructure | | | | outages, perhaps due | | | | to a direct or | | | | indirect result of | | | | the emergency | | | | situation and | | | | therefore needs | | | | preferential | | | | handling and | | | | priority access to | | | | communication | | | | resources. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 5.2 Network Slicing
### 5.2.1 Description
With the new market segments and verticals, as described in the NGMN white
paper [2], new diverse use cases will need to be supported by the 3GPP eco
system. This needs to be done at the same time as continuing to support the
traditional mobile broadband use cases. The new uses cases are expected to
come with a high variety of requirements on the network. For example, there
will be different requirements on functionality such as charging, policy
control, security, mobility etc. Some use cases such as Mobile Broadband (MBB)
may require e.g. application specific charging and policy control while other
use cases can efficiently be handled with simpler charging or policies. The
use cases will also have huge differences in performance requirements.
In order to handle the multitude of segments and verticals in a robust way,
there is also a need to isolate the different segments from each other. For
example, a scenario where a huge amount of electricity meters are misbehaving
in the network should not negatively impact the MBB users or the health and
safety applications. In addition, with new verticals supported by the 3GPP
community, there will also be a need for independent management and
orchestration of segments, as well as providing analytics and service exposure
functionality that is tailored to each vertical's or segment's need. The
isolation should not be restricted to isolate between different segments but
also allow an operator to deploy multiple instances of the same network
partition. Furthermore, to support network slices with mission critical
services on the same infrastructure, it is required that the isolation can be
provided with high assurance. It will enable the 5G system to confine service-
specific security/assurance requirements to a single slice, rather than the
whole network. Similarly, in the event of a potential cyber-attack, the attack
will be confined to a single slice.
The figure below provides a high level illustration of the concept. A network
slice is composed of a collection of logical network functions that supports
the communication service requirements of particular use case(s). It shall be
possible to direct terminals to selected slices in a way that fulfil operator
or user needs, e.g. based on subscription or terminal type. The network
slicing primarily targets a partition of the core network, but it is not
excluded that RAN may need specific functionality to support multiple slices
or even partitioning of resources for different network slices.
Figure 5.2-1: Network slices that cater for different use cases
This is referring to section 5.4 in the NGMN White Paper [2].
Examples of related use cases are given below:
\- Self-automated car in a smart city: Bob starts his self-automated driving
car that relies on V2X communication. While sitting in the car, Bob initiates
a HD video streaming service through the infotainment system available in the
car. In this example, the V2X communication requires a low-latency but not
necessarily a high throughput, whereas, the HD video streaming requires a high
throughput but is tolerate to the latency.
Both services are assumed to be provided by the same operator.
\- Healthcare robot: A robot that is monitored by the healthcare service
provider takes care of elderly people at home. The robot sends a regular
report of health status and the activities interacting between the robot and
the elderly people to the healthcare operator. The robot also allows the
elderly people to do any Internet like services (e.g., web-surfing, hearing
streaming music, watching a video) or even making a call to their doctor
directly in case of emergency.
Both services are assumed to be provided by the same operator.
### 5.2.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP System shall allow the operator to compose network slices, i.e.
independent sets of network functions (e.g. potentially from different
vendors) and parameter configurations, e.g. for hosting multiple enterprises
or MVNOs etc.
The operator shall be able to dynamically create network slice to form a
complete, autonomous and fully operational network customised to cater for
different diverse market scenarios.
The 3GPP System shall be able to identify certain terminals and subscribers to
be associated with a particular network slice.
The 3GPP System shall be able to enable a UE to obtain service from a specific
network slice e.g. based on subscription or terminal type.
### 5.2.3 Potential Operational Requirements
The operator shall be able to create and manage network slices that fulfil
required criteria for different market scenarios.
The operator shall be able to operate different network slices in parallel
with isolation that e.g. prevents data communication in one slice to
negatively impact services in other slices.
The 3GPP System shall have the capability to conform to service-specific
security assurance requirements in a single network slice, rather than the
whole network.
The 3GPP System shall have the capability to provide a level of isolation
between network slices which confines a potential cyber-attack to a single
network slice.
The operator shall be able to authorize third parties to create, manage a
network slice configuration (e.g. scale slices) via suitable APIs, within the
limits set by the network operator.
The 3GPP system shall support elasticity of network slice in term of capacity
with no impact on the services of this slice or other slices.
The 3GPP system shall be able to change the slices with minimal impact on the
ongoing subscriber's services served by other slices, i.e. new network slice
addition, removal of existing network slice, or update of network slice
functions or configuration.
The 3GPP System shall be able to support E2E (e.g. RAN, CN) resource
management for a network slice.
## 5.3 Lifeline communications / natural disaster
### 5.3.1 Description
5G should be able to provide robust communications in case of natural
disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, etc. Several
types of basic communications (e.g., voice, text messages) are needed by those
in the disaster area. Survivors should also be able to signal their
location/presence so that they can be found quickly. Efficient network and
user terminal energy consumptions are critical in emergency cases. Several
days of operation should be supported. (NGMN 5G White Paper, section 3.2.1,
xi. Natural Disaster) [2]
### 5.3.2 Potential Service Requirements
Void.
### 5.3.3 Potential Operational Requirements
Based on operator's policy, the system shall be able to define minimal
services necessary in case of disaster that are conditional on e.g. subscriber
class (i.e. access class), communication class (i.e. emergency call or not),
device type (i.e. Smart phone or IoT device), and application. Examples of
those minimal services are communications from specific high priority users,
emergency calls, and a disaster-message-board type of application that helps
people reconnect with friends and loved ones in the aftermath of disasters.
Those minimal services shall be available in case of disaster.
During the recovery phase of disaster, the service continuity of those minimal
services that start being provided should be ensured.
## 5.4 Migration of Services from earlier generations
### 5.4.1 Description
In addition to new services derived from the new use cases envisioned for the
\, there exist already today a large number of services in the
cellular networks of the current generations.
It is envisioned that some of these existing services could be deemed as
required for support in a \ while others are not. In the potential
service requirements below services are listed and classified as being either
required or not required for support in a \.
### 5.4.2 Potential Service Requirements
The \ shall be able to support the following services defined in
previous releases of EPS, e.g. to fulfil regulatory requirements:
IMS based Voice, Video and Messaging.
Location services
Public Warning System
Multimedia Priority Service (MPS)
...
Examples of services not required for support in a \:
CS voice service continuity and/or fallback to GSM or UMTS (i.e. seamless
handover)
...
### 5.4.3 Potential Operational Requirements
The \ shall be able to support the following operational
requirement defined in previous releases of EPS:
RAN Sharing
## 5.5 Mobile broadband for indoor scenario
### 5.5.1 Descriptions of typical use case in office scenario
In an office scenario, the users and their serving nodes are expected to be
deployed indoors. The coverage area per each serving node is small. Ideal
backhaul infrastructure should be available and could be optimized.
Users frequently upload and download data from company's servers and they are
various in size which could be up to terabit of data. Real-time video meeting
within the campus and/or over the internet would be the normal work mode. The
productivity is dependent on the efficiency of the system response time and
reliability.
### 5.5.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP system shall support user experienced data rate up to Gbps of level.
The 3GPP system shall support user peak data rate at tens of Gbps;
The 3GPP system shall support the whole traffic volume in the area at least
the level of Tbps/ km^2^.
The 3GPP system shall support very low latency for user experienced data
exchange.
### 5.5.3 Potential Operational Requirements
Void.
## 5.6 Mobile broadband for hotspots scenario
### 5.6.1 Description
In dense urban areas, users can be either indoor or outdoor. The coverage area
is wider than the office scenario. Backhaul availability would be one of the
key issues in this scenario, especially if the backhaul is wired. Self
wireless backhaul can also be considered which allows flexible deployment of
serving nodes and potentially reduces the complexity of the networks. Precise
network planning would be difficult, considering the deployment concerns,
backhaul capacity and scalability etc. Random or semi-random network planning
should be considered.
Given it is a dense urban area, dependent on time of day (e.g. morning,
evening, weekday vs. weekend etc.) and the location(e.g. shopping mall,
downtown street), there could be high volume and high capacity multi-media
traffic upload and download towards internet as well as D2D communications.
The traffic volume per cell is very large.
Meanwhile when a user is indoors, it is either stationary or nomadic; however,
when a user is outdoor it may travel slowly.
### 5.6.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP system shall support the user experienced data rate up to Gbps of
level while the user is moving slowly.
The 3GPP system shall support the peak data rate at tens of Gbps while the
user is moving slowly.
The 3GPP system shall support the whole traffic volume in the area at least
the level of Tbps/ km^2^.
### 5.6.3 Potential Operational Requirements
The 3GPP system shall support flexible and efficient backhaul especially
outdoor.
## 5.7 On-demand Networking
### 5.7.1 Description
Generally, network areas with high UE density distribution varies with the
time and the movement of vehicles or crowds. In these hot spots, network
capabilities (e.g., high date rate and low latency) in ultra-high connection
density should be provided by operators. On-demand networking should be
provided by operators to meet the distribution variation. Use cases include
moving areas with high UE density and HD video/photo sharing in stadium/open-
air gathering use cases defined in the NGMN 5G white paper [2]. In the use
case of HD video/photo sharing in stadium/open-air gathering, operators can
get the event information in advance in order to provide the suitable network
capability with high date rate and low latency. In moving hot spots, operators
may have to analyse historical statistical and recent network data and to
track the areas with high UE density in a short time, so as to provide network
capabilities to hot spots on demand.
Here are two examples of on-demand networking.
There is a football match in the Beijing National Stadium this afternoon. Near
to ninety thousand audiences will come to watch the match. During the match,
audiences may share HD live video with friends who are not at the scene, or
post HD photos to the WeChat, a social APP. These applications will require a
combination of ultra-high connection density, high date rate and low latency.
Operators can provide the network on demand in the stadium area. When the
match is over, all the audiences will return home. There is no need to provide
high network capability. So the operator should change to very low network
capability with the demand variation.
While moving vehicles or crowds (e.g., moving mass events such as
walking/cycling demos or a long red-cycle of a traffic light) will generate
capacity variation (from almost stationary to bursty), the hot spots areas can
be tracked and operators can realize dynamic and real-time provision of
capacity for these areas with a high density of UEs moving fast.
### 5.7.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP system shall provide guaranteed user experience for mobile broadband
services like live video in areas with a high UE density which requires user
experienced data downlink rate of 300Mbps and uplink rate of 50Mbps in
200-2500 /km^2^ connection density.
The 3GPP system shall provide consistent users experience when terminals enter
the areas with a high UE density which requires user experienced data downlink
rate of 50Mbps and uplink rate of 25Mbps in 2000/km^2^ connection density.
### 5.7.3 Potential Operational Requirements
The 3GPP system shall be able to adjust the network capacities dynamically
based on the variation of demand and performance indicators.
## 5.8 Flexible application traffic routing
### 5.8.1 Description
As mentioned in China IMT2020 white paper "5G Vision and Requirements" [3],
the further development of mobile internet will trigger the growth of mobile
traffic by a magnitude of thousands in the future. The immersive services such
as augmented reality, virtual reality, ultra-high-definition (UHD) 3D video
have critical requirement on transfer bandwidth and delay between the
terminals, and the future network shall be able to transfer these data traffic
in a flexible and efficient manner.
**Pre-conditions**
The Service Provider X provides 3D Augmented Reality (AR) service for the
users, one user can interact with other user via live 3D Augmented Reality
service.
The Service Provider X has a service agreement with an MNO, and the MNO
network may optimize the traffic transfer for the live 3D Augmented Reality
service in order to realize good user experience.
**Service Flows**
1\. The terminals of Bob and Alice connect to the network via wireless access
system. Bob stays in the house, and Alice stays in one bus moving on the city
road.
2\. Bob connects to the server of Service Provider X and requests to contact
with Alice via 3D Augmented Reality service. The server of Service Provider X
sets up the connection between Bob's and Alice's terminal, and the Augmented
Reality control signalling (the "CP" line marked red colour in figure 5.8-1)
and the Augmented Reality application data (the "UP" line marked blue colour
in figure 5.8-1) are both transferred via the MNO network and the server of
Service Provider X.
3\. During the communication, the bus that Alice is on keeps changing its
location.
4\. As a result of the change in location Alice's terminal use a different
base station to access the network. Upon changing base stations the previous
user-plane path may become inefficient. To avoid this, the application traffic
may be transported via an alternative, more efficient path between Bob's and
Alice's terminal (the "UP" line marked in green colour in figure 5.8-1)
Figure 5.8-1: Application traffic routing after UE mobility
**Post-conditions**
Data packets are using efficient paths between the involved terminals.
### 5.8.2 Potential Service Requirements
Void.
### 5.8.3 Potential Operational Requirements
Subject to operator's policy and/or based on application needs, the 3GPP
network shall support efficient user-plane paths between UEs attached to the
same network, even if the UEs change their location during communication.
Subject to operator's policy and/or based on application needs, the 3GPP
network shall support efficient user-plane paths between a UE attached to the
mobile network and communication peers outside of the mobile network (e.g.
Internet hosts).
## 5.9 Flexibility and scalability
### 5.9.1 Description
Since traffic varies depending on the time of the day and on the day of the
week, network deployment decisions based on peak traffic cause waste of
resources. In addition, traffic varies also depending on location. It is
understood that traffic moves from a location to another in a way, while the
total amount of traffic in a wider area is less changed. Therefore it is
important that the system can flexibly scale with various levels of control
and user-plane demand in order to avoid localized underutilization of
resources [2].
Resiliency against congestion and disasters would be also much enhanced by
that.
### 5.9.2 Potential Service Requirements
Void.
### 5.9.3 Potential Operational Requirements
The system shall be scalable to ensure that different levels of signalling and
user plane demand can be handled.
The system shall support dynamic utilization of resources (compute, network
and storage resources) in more than one geographic area in order to serve the
differing needs of the users in each geographic area, subject to operator
policy.
Using resources (compute, network and storage resources) in more than one
geographic area by the system shall be supported without requiring manual re-
configuration of neighbouring nodes, without service disruption, and while
avoiding additional signalling due to unnecessary UE's re-attachments (e.g.
due to loss of call state information in the network).
The system shall also support foreseen rapid increases in signalling and user
plane demand with a lead time that can be as low as 5 minutes.
NOTE: The lead time of 5 minutes stems from the most severe and unplanned use
case i.e. the disaster use case, where the average time until call attempts
surge after a disaster occurs is considered 5 minutes.
## 5.10 Mobile broadband services with seamless wide-area coverage
### 5.10.1 Description
As a basic scenario of mobile communications, the seamless wide-area coverage
scenario aims to provide seamless service to users. In future, mobile
broadband services such as mobile cloud office, mobile cloud classroom, online
games/videos, and augmented reality, etc. will become more and more popular
and helpful. People hope mobile broadband services are provided wherever they
go, for example, urban areas, rural areas, high-speed railways and fast ways
between cities. That is to say, mobile broadband services are provided in
seamless wide-area coverage [3] [4] [5].
Here is an example of this use case.
1\. Jack works in an urban city, and today he travels on a business trip. He
takes a taxi to the high-speed railway station, and spends 4 hours on the
high-speed train. Meanwhile, some urgent work needs to be settled. He
continues to work on the taxi and the train using his smart phone or laptop as
if he was working in his office. Necessary relevant data (such as document,
video, etc.) is obtained from the company's cloud storage server. He can
communicate with his colleagues and share the work results with them
conveniently and timely.
2\. Getting off the train, he arrives at the destination which is in rural
areas and meets his customers. He introduces a new product of his company to
customers, and at the same time, a video conference by operators' network is
held so that his colleagues who are still in their office can also get
involved.
3\. After the conference, Jack feels tired and goes to the company's guest
room which locates beside the factory. It's the evening game time, by
connecting to the operators' network; he plays online games with his friends.
4\. On the return high-speed train, he watches the football match online that
he missed last midnight using his smart phone.
In this case, Jack gets consistent user experience of mobile broadband
services on his trip, including on the taxi, the high-speed train, and the
rural areas with the assist of operator's network.
However, according to above steps 1 and 4, i.e., when Jack is on high speed
train, besides the original requirements, the high speed moving scenario is
also required to consider some other necessary issues as follows:
\- A high speed moving train usually contains hundreds of passengers (e.g.,
500 passengers in a train). Therefore, it may consider that at least hundreds
of active UEs may access the internet for different services/applications in a
high speed train. Thus, the system shall provide sufficient bandwidth for
these active UEs simultaneously at least.
\- Some users may use on-line gaming or other real-time applications/services
for spending travelling time in the high speed moving train. Therefore, these
kinds of applications/services still require stringent delay requirement
(e.g., 10 ms E2E delay) such that users can have satisfaction with these
applications/services.
### 5.10.2 Potential Service Requirements
For wide area coverage, the system shall support user experienced data rate
for mobile broadband services anytime and anywhere, e.g., 100Mbps.
NOTE: The above requirement assumes reuse of an existing base station site
grid.
The system shall support fast-moving end-users, e.g., 500km/h.
The system shall support high connection density for high speed scenarios,
e.g., 500 active UEs simultaneously.
The system shall support low latency for high speed scenario.
### 5.10.3 Potential Operational Requirements
Void.
## 5.11 Virtual presence
### 5.11.1 Description
The goal is to provide interactive services for high data rate zones (e.g.
Office environments) as described in section 3.2.1 of the NGMN 5G White Paper
[2].
A use case can be:
Phil works in a multinational company which has offices in many big cities. He
has regular meetings with colleagues based in other countries. He uses to have
real time 360° video communications: he wears Virtual Presence glasses,
allowing to be merged in a meeting room where he can see all his other
colleagues sitting around a table. He can interact with them in real time as
if they were just in front of him.
Phil is alone in his office and wear special glasses. His office is equipped
with cameras for transmitting his video to the network.
Phil actives a communication with the virtual presence conference bridge in
order to initiate a 360° video communication with all his colleagues.
Another use case can be:
Abigail recently had surgery and cannot attend her classes. Virtual Presence
can give her real time 360° video communication with her classmates and
teacher.
There is a trade-off between very low latency and modest bandwidth requirement
vs. modest latency and high bandwidth requirement pending on where the
composing of the virtual meeting stream is located.
### 5.11.2 Potential Service Requirements
The system shall provide high bandwidth (bidirectional) and low latency. In
Office environments, this implies also a full indoor coverage.
The roundtrip delay shall be in the magnitude of 2-4 ms with a bandwidth
capable of running an 8k stereo video stream [250Mbps] uplink and downlink.
NOTE: The above requirement is in a virtual presence scenario where composing
the "virtual meeting room" is located in the network.
### 5.11.3 Potential Operational Requirements
Void.
## 5.12 Connectivity for drones
### 5.12.1 Description
The objective is to provide use cases concerning connection of drones.
Use cases can be:
Phil is a farm worker who has 55 hectares planted with sensitive cultures. He
wants to survey, in real time, the fields and the state of the crops. He uses
a drone and a remote control that are both connected to the mobile network.
Due to low latency, Phil is able to control the drone and is also able to
analyse, in real time, the video and infrared imaging of the fields that are
streamed from the cameras and sensors. This provides all necessary information
for decision making on irrigation, fertilizer and pesticide distribution
Jack works for a TV station as a cameraman. He uses a drone to live broadcast
outdoor events like marathon, F1 auto racing. High quality live video (e.g.
Full HD, 4K) is transmitted from the flying drone to the TV station via the
mobile network.
In many scenarios, the drone flies in low altitude. The drone needs to
maintain continuous connection with the mobile network which requires the
network supports continuous wireless coverage in low altitude flight
scenarios.
A drone and remote control are connected to the mobile network.
The drone is piloted with remote mode, data being transmitted via the network
The drone transmits video and with other data, such as infrared pictures.
Extreme Real-Time Communications are addressed in the NGMN 5G white paper [2].
Figure 5.12-1 depicts how communication will occur, in this use case
communication occurs through the mobile network (WAN). Communication does not
occur node to node or through a wireless controller (LAN)
Figure 5.12-1: Communication path
### 5.12.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP system shall be able, in the context of Internet of Things, to
provide best solutions for applications using, for example drones or robotics.
All requirements are for end to end performance, defined as communications
sent by source and communication received by target.
The 3GPP system shall support:
\- Round trip latency less than [150 ms], including all network components.
\- Due to consequences of failure being loss of property or life, reliability
goal is [near 100%.]
\- Reliability to be at the same level for current aviation Air Traffic
Control (ATC). Link supports command and control of vehicles in controlled
airspace.
\- Priority, Precedence, Preemption (PPP) mechanisms shall be used to ensure
sufficient reliability metrics are reached.
\- Position accuracy within [10 cm] to avoid damage to property or life in
densely populated areas.
\- Provide continuous wireless coverage, high speed uplink bandwidth at least
[20Mbps], for a flying UE at low altitude of [10-1000] meters with the high
speed as maximum as [300km/h].
### 5.12.3 Potential Operational Requirements
Void.
## 5.13 Industrial Control
### 5.13.1 Description
Several industrial control applications require high reliability and very low
latency (\~1ms) whereas the data rate requirement may be relatively low. In
some case also high data rates may be required, e.g., in the uplink, to
deliver live video stream to a physical operator, or a computer which then
analyses the video and adapts the control to the situation (10s of Mbps per
user in a dense environment).
Traditionally industrial control applications have relied on wired
connections, or proprietary or tailored wireless solutions. A wired
connection, despite the potential of being fast, supporting a high bandwidth,
and being reliable, may not be applicable for every situation simply due to
the fact that physical wires are subject to tear and wear, and because wiring
impacts the mechanical design of the machines to be controlled. Proprietary
wireless solutions may suffer from the high prices due to the lack of mass
production, and from the lack of globally available frequency bands.
A high-reliability low-latency wireless connection with a high uplink
bandwidth fulfils the requirements for industrial control applications.
Reliability can be further enhanced by dedicating the radio interface to the
specific industrial control application, and separating the required core
network processing from other traffic in the network.
Low latency can be further enhanced by allowing local processing of the
traffic.
Related material can be found in
\- NGMN 5G White Paper [2]
\- 3.2.1 Use Cases/Ultra-reliable Communications/Extreme Real-Time
Communications/x. Tactile Internet
\- 3.2.1 Use Cases/Ultra-reliable Communications/xiii. Collaborative Robots: A
Control Network for Robots
\- 4G Americas 5G White Paper [6]
\- 2.1.1 SMART GRID AND CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE MONITORING
\- 2.4 PUBLIC SAFETY
### 5.13.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP system shall support very low latency (\~1 ms)
The 3GPP system shall support very high reliability
The 3GPP system shall support very high availability
The 3GPP system shall support high uplink data rate (tens of Mbps per device
in a dense environment)
### 5.13.3 Potential Operational Requirements
Void.
## 5.14 Tactile Internet
### 5.14.1 Description
Tactile internet, defined as \"_Extremely low latency in combination with high
availability, reliability and security will define the character of the
Tactile Internet_ \", makes the cellular network an extension of our human
sensory and neural system. Human sensory system requires a millisecond or
lower latency to give the impression of immediate response. If the force
feedback from a remotely operated tool comes too late, the operation of the
tool becomes difficult. If the visual feedback from a virtual or augmented
reality headset arrives too late, the human operator may have nausea.
Another important requirement for tactile internet is very high reliability:
if the human operator operates a device that interacts with its surroundings,
it is very important that he remains in full control of that device all the
time. This makes also the security important: the connection must remain
intact and secure, without the possibility for outsiders to block, modify, or
steal the connection.
Related material can be found in;
\- NGMN 5G White Paper [2]
\- 3.2.1 Use Cases/Ultra-reliable Communications/Extreme Real-Time
Communications/x. Tactile Internet
\- 4G Americas 5G White Paper [6]
\- 2.2 EXTREME VIDEO, VIRTUAL REALITY AND GAMING APPLICATIONS
> \- 5G & Education [34]
>
> \- Education: Telementoring, Teleteaching, Teleteamworking
### 5.14.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP System shall support very low latency (\~1 ms)
The 3GPP System shall support very high reliability
The 3GPP System shall support connections that are very difficult to block,
modify, or hijack
### 5.14.3 Potential Operational Requirements
Void.
## 5.15 Localized real-time control
### 5.15.1 Description
In Smart factory [3], an extremely restricted requirement of reliability and
latency is expected to guarantee the communication between Robots (e.g.
automatic precise instruments assemble a car co-ordinately) and the
communication between Robot and local Robot-control system.
For an instance, the owner of factory buys "authorized devices (Ads)" from
operator A, and deploys Ads in the factory personally. When AD starts up, it
connects to the operator A's network. The service flow would be as follows.
1\. Connection among Ads, Robots and Sensors form a local dynamic multi-hop
network in the factory to supply data communication service.
2\. When Robot starts up, it connects to local robot control system through
local dynamic multi-hop network.
3\. High-intelligent Robots (e.g. WALLE) communicate with each other directly
or through local dynamic multi-hop network and complete cooperation work
without any additional central control no matter from robot central control
equipment or other equipment connected to operator A's network.
4\. Robot central control equipment connected to operator A network can also
support low-intelligent Robots' operation (e.g. Robotic Arm) in time and
precisely.
5\. Ads report necessary information of the local dynamic multi-hop network to
operator A.
By above procedures, Robot central control equipment guarantees all Robots in
factory work properly meanwhile Robots work co-ordinately to complete
precision engineering.
### 5.15.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP system shall support extremely high reliability and extremely low
latency [1-10 ms] for data transmission.
### 5.15.3 Potential Operational Requirements
The 3GPP system shall support self-organized dynamic networking for multi-hop
localized network.
## 5.16 Coexistence with legacy systems
### 5.16.1 Description
This use-case is used to collect requirements related to deployment and
coexistence with legacy systems.
Several operators expect that the coverage of E-UTRAN will exceed the coverage
of GERAN and UTRAN by 2020. In order to support the different use cases and
business models with their varying demands it is expected that the \ will include one or more \ RAT optimized for different market
segments. The support of co-existence of new 5G RAT(s) and an E-UTRAN would
cater for a sound migration path.
### 5.16.2 Potential Service Requirements
#### 5.16.2.1 Interworking with \ systems
The \ shall be able to support a UE with a \ subscription
roaming into a \ Visited Mobile Network with roaming agreement with the
\ Home Mobile Network. The \ shall be able to set up home
network provided data connectivity as well as visited network provided data
connectivity.
#### 5.16.2.2 Interworking with existing generations systems
The \ shall be able to support a UE with a \ subscription
roaming into a EPS Visited Mobile Network with roaming agreement with the Home
Mobile Network. The \ shall be able to set up home network provided
data connectivity as well as visited network provided data connectivity.
The \ shall be able to support seamless handover and Inter System
Mobility between\ RAT(s) and E-UTRAN.
Seamless Handover between the \ RAT(s) and GERAN or UTRAN is not required.
#### 5.16.2.3 Security
The \ shall be able to provide at least the same level of security
as EPS (confidentiality and integrity).
### 5.16.3 Potential Operational Requirements
#### 5.16.3.1 Interworking with existing generations systems
The \ shall be able to support that the operator can limit access
to its services for a roaming subscriber with a \ capable UE and
subscription, i.e. when \ SLA is not in place yet.
## 5.17 Extreme real-time communications and the tactile internet
### 5.17.1 Description
As mentioned in the NGMN 5G whitepaper [2] and SID for SMARTER, "extreme real-
time communications" present tight requirements for communications networks.
Another term to describe extreme real-time applications is the "tactile
internet" as described by Gerhard Fettweis. Tactile internet applications
require extremely low latency and high reliability and security.
Examples of extreme real-time communications include:
Truly immersive, proximal cloud driven virtual reality
Remote control of vehicles and robots, real-time control of flying/driving
things
Remote health care, monitoring, diagnosis, treatment, surgery
Target 1ms delay implies endpoints must be physically close. Maximum distance
between endpoints depends on delay budget per link.
**Pre-conditions**
Max is shopping for a new place to live. His real estate agent Charles has
lent him a virtual reality headset to preview houses. Charles also provides
Max with access to high-resolution 3D files of each property, generated with
techniques such as visual odometry to provide dimensionally accurate
representations. Charles can also supply a remote controlled drone to allow
Max to explore property in real time.
**Service Flows**
1\. Max straps on his goggles and starts shopping. His eyes are presented with
life-like images of the subject properties; he can look around the rooms and
navigate the property as if he were present. Max can also measure spaces, test
if his furniture will fit, etc.
2\. For short-listed properties, Charles deploys the drone. In this use case,
extreme real-time requirements come into play. Max looks left, drone looks
left (naturally and immediately, movement to photons in 10 ms to avoid
queasiness.) Max can also communicate and ask questions using the drone.
(Drone provides a form of telepresence.)
**Post-conditions**
Max saves hours by previewing houses using virtual reality. Charles makes more
money by not wasting his time showing clients properties that are unsuitable.
### 5.17.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP system shall support 1ms one-way delay between mobile devices and
devices in the nearby internet.
### 5.17.3 Potential Operational Requirements
Void.
## 5.18 Remote Control
### 5.18.1 Description
In the future, UAV (unmanned aerial vehicle) will be widely used for delivery
of packages (e.g. A company plans to use UAVs to deliver goods), which
improves delivery efficiency. In a situation where first aid personnel cannot
arrive promptly to the scene of an emergency, UAVs could be used to collect
video information on site and deliver emergency equipment.
For example, the owners of the UAVs (e.g. Logistics companies or Medical
institutions) subscribe to latency and ultra-reliable transmission service
from Operator A, and control the UAV remotely through the service. The service
flow would be as follows:
1\. When an accident happens, a manipulator controls the UAV carrying
necessary equipment and medicine.
2\. UAV shoots real-time pictures or video along the road and sends the image
back to the manipulator.
3\. Assisted by the video sent back from UAV, the manipulator controls the UAV
away from obstacles through the manipulator.
4\. Continuously the manipulator sends the command message to control the
velocity of UAV precisely.
5\. Besides the real-time image, the UAV in flight also sends back position
information and other data from its carried sensor back to the manipulator
simultaneously.
Assisted by real-time image and information sent back by UAV, manipulator at
the console controls the UAV remotely flying through complex terrain and
landing at the exact site where the accident happens.
### 5.18.2 Potential Service Requirements
All requirements are for end to end performance, defined as communications
sent by source and communication received by target. The 3GPP system shall
support:
\- Round trip latency less than [150 ms], including all network components.
\- High reliability for fast-moving end-users (e.g. 120km/h); reliability goal
is [near 100%]
\- Seamless connection for fast-moving end-users.
\- Reliability to be at the same level for current aviation Air Traffic
Control (ATC). Link supports command and control of vehicles in controlled
airspace.
\- Priority, Precedence, Preemption (PPP) mechanisms shall be used to ensure
sufficient reliability metrics are reached.
\- Position accuracy within [10 cm] to avoid damage to property or life in
densely populated areas.
### 5.18.3 Potential Operational Requirements
Void.
## 5.19 Light weight device configuration
### 5.19.1 Description
The new system is expected to support all kinds of devices, ranging from very
simple, limited function devices to very complex, sophisticated computing
platforms. On the lower end of the device function range, not all such devices
may use IMS and may not need to be equipped with an IMS client, and yet it
would still be desirable to activate such a device remotely. A light weight
configuration mechanism may be used to provide the configuration information
to the device.
### 5.19.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP System shall be able to support devices (e.g., smart meter) with
limited communication requirements and capabilities (e.g., devices without an
IMS client).
The 3GPP System shall support a lighter weight signalling for device
configuration (i.e., service parameters) than is currently available in EPS.
### 5.19.3 Potential Operational Requirements
Void.
## 5.20 Wide area sensor monitoring and event driven alarms
### 5.20.1 Description
Consider the case of forest fire alarms or wide area outdoor security motion
sensors. Sensors would communicate periodic signs of life when not triggered
and event information when triggered. Communication would be mission critical
and high priority when activated, wide spread, and initiated in the uplink
direction. Devices would be low complexity, low powered, battery sensors.
A need arises that requires monitoring a wide area for a particular measured
property. The measured property may be, but is not limited to, temperature,
motion, vibration, air quality, moisture, or radiation. The need may have been
planned (e.g., due to building construction or bridge maintenance) or
unplanned (e.g., as a result of a forest fire or other natural/man-made
event).
The area to be monitored is "wide" in the sense that it is remote and/or large
enough that other wired or wireless network connectivity for the number of
sensors deployed is impractical.
Sensors to measure the particular property are deployed in the area of
interest. Sensors may be purposefully placed in specific locations (bridge
joints, farm field divisions) or randomly dropped (forest fire). Once
deployed, sensors are expected to be fixed or not move far. Sensors may be
manually or automatically activated when they are deployed in the area to be
monitored. Upon activation, each sensor identifies itself with the network and
registers with the sensor monitoring service/application. The sensor sends its
information unsolicited and infrequently with no expectation of a response
from the network.
A method by which large numbers of stationary (or not move far) sensors may be
deployed and data may be uploaded while minimizing overhead is vital.
### 5.20.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP System shall support efficient transfer of infrequent uplink data for
low power devices which only participate in mobile-originated communication
scenarios.
The 3GPP System shall support a resource efficient mechanism to provide
service parameters and activate groups of low power devices.
The system shall support significantly increased device power efficiency
(e.g., battery life up to more than 10 years).
The system shall support efficient data transmission with limited resource and
signalling usage.
The system shall support high density massive connections (e.g.1 million
connections per square kilometre) in an efficient manner.
The system shall support significant coverage enhancement (e.g., 20dB better
coverage than Rel 99 GPRS system).
### 5.20.3 Potential Operational Requirements
The 3GPP System shall support a mechanism which provides an appropriate and
efficient authentication mechanism for low power devices.
The 3GPP System shall support a mechanism which provides appropriate and
efficient confidentiality and integrity protection for mobile originated
transfer from low power devices.
## 5.21 IoT Device Initialization
### 5.21.1 Description
IoT device manufacturers may not know where their devices will eventually be
deployed and activated. Consequently, the manufacturer will not be able to
pre-provision the devices with PLMN specific and IoT service specific
information. The manufacturer will need to know the device is intended for use
with 3GPP technology and as such will include a mechanism (e.g., certificate)
to securely establish an association with a 3GPP network when the device is
activated by an end user.
The device will need to be populated with a preferred PLMN list prior to or
during first access attempt. How this is done may be out of scope of 3GPP
(e.g., end user accesses a 3^rd^ party website to provide personalized
information for the device).
At the first access attempt, the device will use the factory installed
mechanism (e.g., certificate) to establish a subscription with the PLMN.
Remote provisioning may be used to complete device configuration.
### 5.21.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP System shall support a secure mechanism (e.g. a factory installed
certificate) that enables a device (e.g. IoT device) that has not been
provided with a 3GPP subscription to establish access to a 3GPP network.
The 3GPP network shall support a secure mechanism to remotely provide the
device with a particular 3GPP subscription and other, third party provided,
device configuration credentials when the device was not previously provided
with a 3GPP subscription.
Editor\'s Note: The above requirements are not agreed and may need further
study.
### 5.21.3 Potential Operational Requirements
Void.
## 5.22 Subscription security credentials update
### 5.22.1 Description
To enhance security on IoT devices, it may be desirable to periodically update
the subscription security credentials, even for devices that may have very
infrequent communication with the network. Additionally, the potential for IoT
devices to be compromised poses a risk to the network. As IoT devices
proliferate, it will be necessary for the network to be able to identify
devices when it determines the security credentials of the device may have
been compromised and force an update of their subscription security to
maintain security of the network. In either case, the update mechanism could
be the same.
**Pre-conditions**
The network determines that a subscription security credential update is
needed for an IoT device with a valid subscription.
**Service Flows**
The network securely notifies the IoT device that it needs to update its
subscription security credentials in a secure manner.
In response to the notice from the core network, the IoT device is provisioned
with new proposed subscription security credentials that were exchanged in a
secure manner.
**Post-conditions**
After the subscription security credential update is complete, the IoT device
is ready for service.
### 5.22.2 Potential Requirements
The 3GPP System shall support a secure mechanism to update the subscription
security credentials for an IoT device.
The 3GPP System shall support a secure way of storing subscription security
credentials in the IoT device.
## 5.23 Access from less trusted networks
### 5.23.1 Description
In order to enable more flexible deployments, operators will support access
and connectivity via less trusted networks. For example, current core network
functions are expected to be deployed nearer the edge and multiple parties may
own the network equipment traversed. In these networks, privacy across access
networks elements cannot be assumed.
The current 3GPP system requires a UE to provide its IMSI unencrypted over the
air during the initial attach. A passive attacker can identify a user from on
the IMSI by observing the OTA traffic. This also enables the attacker to track
the user while the user roams to another network.
In addition, when the UE is roaming, the UE has provide its IMSI to the
serving network for authentication and the IMSI is again stored across the
network elements of the roaming network, e.g., in the MME, S-GW, P-GW. This
enables the serving network to trace the user.
Example: Angela visits another country and switches on her mobile. The visited
PLMN requests her IMSI in order to register. The visited PLMN (and potentially
other agencies) are then aware of her visit. 3GPP should consider a method to
protect subscribers' identities while roaming.
**Pre-conditions**
A UE and its home network shall enable the use of an identifier for initial
attach.
**Service Flows**
1\. A UE sends an attach request to a serving network using a non-permanent
identifier
2\. The network requests authentication information for the UE to the UE's
home network based on the temporary identifier.
3\. The HSS of the user's home network identifies the permanent identifier
(i.e., IMSI) associated with the non-permanent identifier provided by the
serving network.
4\. The HSS provides the authentication information for the UE to the serving
network
5\. After successful authentication, the serving network may request the UE's
permanent identifier to the home network, e.g., for lawful intercept.
**Post-conditions**
Void.
### 5.23.2 Potential Requirements
Subject to regulatory requirements, the UE may use a temporary identifier for
initial attach that hides its long-term identity. The home network shall be
able to associate this temporary identifier to the long-term identity.
## 5.24 Bio-connectivity
### 5.24.1 Description
As per the 4G Americas white paper: "Bio-connectivity, which is the continuous
and automatic medical telemetry (e.g., temperature, blood pressure, heart-
rate, blood glucose) collection via wearable sensors, is another strong
emerging trend that will add to the wireless communications requirements" [6].
In order to support the bio-connectivity use case, low complexity and high
battery life are two very important requirements for the UE. Other important
requirements are reliability and a secure connectivity. High data rates may
also be needed in certain cases, such as during a surgery supported by a video
stream of the patient internal organs while the surgery is performed by the
doctors.
Such UE sensors, when used in operation rooms or near hospital beds, need only
to communicate with each other and provide information to a local display
equipment for doctors and nurses to monitor. If patients are on the go, these
UE sensors may send data to a smart phone or ambulance equipment. They operate
seamlessly while the patient is moving within the hospital, at home or on the
go. However, these UE sensors do not need to operate standalone. In fact, if
there is a massive number of such UEs, it is preferred and also beneficial to
have an aggregator to send information to the network. When information needs
to be uploaded to a server, for example to update the patient's records, it
can be done through a UE-to-network relay. For instance, in the hospital case,
this relay could be the patients' monitoring device. 3GPP device to device
communication is more efficient for such UEs.
The sensor UEs have 3GPP credentials, an identifier and a subscription, and
use 3GPP device to device communication with other UEs and communicates with
the network via a UE-to-network relay. By supporting the sensor UE
connectivity with the network only via a UE to network relay, that sensor UE
can still utilize 3GPP services and the network is able manage that UE and
provide authorization, end-to-end secure connectivity, resource management and
service provisioning. The advantages are the many optimizations in complexity
and power requirements that can be implemented in that UE.
This is the use case for a low power, low complexity UE, which is able to
communicate with other UEs, under operator control, using 3GPP device to
device communication only. The UE is also able to communicate with the network
via a UE-to-network relay. The use case presented here is based on e-health,
but the scenario and requirements may apply to other wearable sensors as well.
This use case enables 5G to reach the massive IoT market in large scale.
### 5.24.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP System shall support a mechanism that provides security,
authentication and authorization for UEs which only support 3GPP device-to-
device communication.
The 3GPP System shall support efficient transfer of data for UEs which only
support 3GPP device-to-device communication.
NOTE: This is especially suited for power-constrained, low complexity UEs. The
3GPP System shall support a mechanism for UEs which only support 3GPP device-
to-device communication to communicate with the network via a UE-to-network
relay.
The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism that allows the network to be aware
of the UEs operating with assistance from a UE-to-network relay.
The 3GPP System shall support a timely, efficient, reliable and secure
mechanism to transmit the same information to multiple UEs which only support
3GPP device-to-device communication.
### 5.24.3 Potential Operational Requirements
Void.
## 5.25 Wearable Device Communication
### 5.25.1 Description
This use case describes the scenario of the wearable device communication. The
wearable devices can communication the network through the smart phone when
the wearable devices are within the short communication range of a smart
phone. The wearable devices can directly communicate with the network when the
wearable devices are outside the short communication range of the smart phone.
The wearable device should have a subscription associated to its own
subscriber's identity (e.g. IMSI).
**Pre-conditions**
John has a smart watch and a smart phone. Each device has a subscription
associated to its own subscriber's identity (e.g. IMSI). Each device can
independently communicate with network. Compared to the smart phone, the smart
watch may have smaller shape, lower power capacity and lower BB&RF capability.
**Service Flows**
1\. When the smart watch is within the short communication range of the smart
phone the smart watch is aware of that it's in the coverage of the smart
phone. When the smart watch is not nearby the smart phone the smart watch is
aware of that it's not in the coverage of the smart phone.
2\. John makes a call (e.g. VoLTE) using his smart watch. When the smart watch
is out of coverage of John\'s smart phone, the smart watch directly connects
the network by the 3GPP system air interface between the smart watch and
network. When the smart watch is in the coverage of John\'s smart phone, the
smart watch connects to the network through the smart phone by the 3GPP system
air interface between the smart watch and the smart phone, which is managed
and controlled by network.
3\. If John moves out of the coverage of his smart phone during the call, the
smart watch is aware of that it's out of the coverage of the smart phone and
then connects directly to the network by the 3GPP system air interface between
the smart watch and the network. The smart watch can maintain the call (e.g.
VoLTE) after it connects to the network.
4\. If John moves into the coverage of his smart phone during the call (e.g.
VoLTE), the smart watch is aware of that it's in the coverage of the smart
phone. The smart watch connects to the network through the smart phone by the
3GPP system air interface between the smart watch and the smart phone. The
smart watch can maintain the call (e.g. VoLTE) after it connects to the smart
phone.
### 5.25.2 Potential Service Requirements
NOTE 1: Requirements below are for 3GPP RAT case but requirements for non-3GPP
RAT case also needs to be studied.
The 3GPP system shall support an UE (e.g., wearable device) to access to the
3GPP network directly, or via an authorized UE (e.g. smart phone) when the two
UEs are within a short range communication (e.g., less than [TBD]m).
NOTE 2: The short range communication can work in unlicensed or licensed band
supported by 3GPP system.
The 3GPP system shall be able to support service continuity for an UE (e.g.
wearable device) when it changes from direct access to indirect access via
another UE (e.g. smart phone), and vice versa or when it changes indirect
access from UE (e.g. smart phone) to another UE (e.g. smart phone).
The 3GPP system shall optimize the battery consumption of an UE (e.g. wearable
device), whether it's connected to the network directly or via another UE
(e.g. smart phone).
The 3GPP system shall support end-to-end integrity protection and
confidentiality for data transmitted to/from a UE (e.g. wearable device), when
it's connected to the network via another UE(e.g. smart phone) .
The 3GPP system shall support real time services (e.g. real time voice and/or
real time video) for a n UE (e.g. wearable device), whether it's connected to
the network directly or via another UE (e.g. smart phone).
The 3GPP system shall support data transmission services for an UE (e.g.
wearable device), whether it's connected to the network directly or via
another UE (e.g. smart phone).
The 3GPP system shall support end to end QoS for an UE (e.g. wearable device),
when it's connected to the network via another UE (e.g. smart phone).
The 3GPP system shall identify an UE (e.g. wearable device), when it's
connected to the network via another UE (e.g. smart phone).
### 5.25.3 Potential Operational Requirements
The UE of wearable device, which can be connected to the 3GPP network directly
or via another UE, should have a subscription associated to its own
subscriber's identity (e.g. IMSI) with mobile operator.
NOTE: The number of IMSIs may be exhausted considering the huge number of
subscriptions in the future.
## 5.26 Best Connection per Traffic Type
### 5.26.1 Description
As mentioned in the 4G Americas white paper: "With the advent of small cells
in indoor environments such as offices, there is a need for some traffic to be
routed locally while other traffic needs to access MNO or third-party
services" [6].
In this use case a user has two applications running, one voice and one video
streaming application. The two applications have very different requirements,
as one is generating low volume, real time traffic that needs to access MNO
services, and the second requires much higher data rates and access to the
closest Content Distribution Network (CDN). If the user is in the coverage
area of multiple cells, the best cell for the given application should be
used, so that the traffic is routed in optimal manner.
The MNO has a macro cell deployed in an area and several small cells
("booster" cells) under the coverage of the macro cell. Initially, the device
is registered with the MNO network and camped on the macro cell. In the figure
below this device is referred to as Alice's device. Alice is in a shopping
mall when she decides to call her friend, Bob (see Bob's device in the
figure). The call is routed via the macro cell where Alice is camped on, and
from there on to the MNO's IP multimedia network.
During the communication, Alice receives an advertisement in her device. The
advertisement is from a local store in the shopping mall, and it is about a
new product the store is releasing. The advertisement has a link to a web page
where they have a video with the details of the new product. Alice considers
Bob would like the product and tells him to see the video. Meanwhile Alice
also decides to stream the video to her own device, while still remaining on
the call with Bob.
The network operator has a few small cells deployed in the shopping mall.
Alice is under the coverage of one of the small cells. That small cell has the
functionality to route packets directly to the Internet using the shopping
mall's Internet access. The video is then routed from the closest CDN (Content
Delivery Network) server in the Internet to Alice's device via the small cell.
The data does not transverse the macro cell.
Figure 5.26-1: Application traffic routing for multiple applications
The data packets from the two different applications running in Alice's device
are using different RAN nodes. The voice application is routed via the macro
cell and through the operator core network. The video streaming is routed
directly from a CDN server in the Internet to the small cell and delivered to
Alice, without traversing the operator core network or the macro cell node,
i.e. by being routed via the shopping mall's Internet access.
NOTE: Today it is possible in the 3GPP system to use dual connectivity in
order to take advantage of small cells that can operate as booster cells. The
difference between this use case and the existing dual connectivity is that
the latter requires that the traffic to/from the booster cell be routed via
the macro cell or via the EPC.
### 5.26.2 Potential Service Requirements
Void.
### 5.26.3 Potential Operational Requirements
Subject to operator's policy, the 3GPP network shall provide a mechanism such
that a specific traffic type (from a specific application or service) to/from
a UE can be routed via specific RAN nodes, and traffic in one RAN node can be
offloaded towards a defined IP network close to the UE\'s point of attachment
to the access network, while other traffic type to/from that same UE is not
offloaded.
## 5.27 Multi Access network integration
### 5.27.1 Description
The deployment of different access networks, the broad variety of use cases
that future networks will support (such as V2V, CIoT, Mission critical
communications...), the broad variety of environments, and the capability of
devices to support multiple access technologies, is making the network more
and more heterogeneous. So the future network should have the capability to
connect to multiple non-3GPP and 3GPP access networks in order to allow the
operator to improve the efficiency in the exploitation of the network
infrastructure and to provide the best capabilities to end-user.
The 3GPP future system is expected to support at least mobility between 3GPP
and non-3GPP networks with optional session continuity, capability for the UE
based on network control to select the access to connect to, simultaneous
connection to different accesses, capability to access services provided by a
5G network to the UE connected to a non-3GPP access, authentication for
accessing a non-3GPP network using 3GPP credential, etc.
The Network operators should be able to increase the user experience and to
exploit the available capacity of the most suitable access network. The
selection of the access network can depend on both user and operator criteria.
The future network should enable the integration of non-3GPP services (e.g.
for office and residential) allowing a broad variety of device and
communication scenarios, e.g. to communicate and exchange information in a
secure and private manner between them, potentially with internal servers and
applications or towards external servers and applications.
Non-3GPP access can extend and/or complement the capabilities of the future
network:
\- The integration of the fixed line services (e.g. internet connection,
streaming service) with a mobile service may be considered.
\- The integration of the residential services (e.g. as sharing the fixed
infrastructure to visitors) with a mobile service may be considered.
NOTE: The access technology to be considered should not be limited to WLAN and
Fixed broadband access, potentially any access could be considered as relevant
for a given service.
### 5.27.2 Potential Service Requirements
The future network shall be able to provide 3GPP services to the UE using
various 3GPP and non-3GPP access networks (e.g. WLAN, Fixed broadband access,
Bluetooth, etc.).
The future 3GPP system is expected to support at least:
\- Inter-system mobility between 3GPP and non-3GPP networks with optional
session continuity,
\- capability for the UE based on network control to select the access,
\- simultaneous connection to different accesses, capability for the UE to
access the 3GPP services provided by the 5G network using non-3GPP access e.g.
FMSS...,
\- authentication to access to future network through a non-3GPP access shall
use 3GPP credentials.
Editor's note: this list is not exhaustive.
The future network shall enable the UE to simultaneously connect to the
network via different non-3GPP and 3GPP accesses.
The future network shall be able to manage the addition or dropping of the
various accesses dynamically during the session according to the quality of
the individual connections.
For UEs simultaneously connected to the network via different non-3GPP and
3GPP accesses, the network shall support data transmissions that leverage both
types of access.
The future network shall be able to aggregate the UE data transfer via one
access or a combination of accesses which may be operated by different mobile
network operators.
The future network shall be able to aggregate the UE data transfer via one
access or a combination of accesses to provide the best user experience during
an ongoing data transmission.
The future network shall be able to support the interworking with fixed
broadband network defined by BBF.
NOTE: The specification of fixed broadband access network is outside the scope
of 3GPP.Which evolution of fixed broadband access network architecture needs
to be considered in stage 2.
The traffic from different subscribers using a non-3GPP access shall be
isolated from each other.
The future network shall be able to differentiate charging a subscriber for
the same 3GPP service if it is provided to a UE over different 3GPP and
non-3GPP accesses.
Based on operator policy, the future network shall be able to dynamically
offload part of the traffic from 3GPP RAT to non-3GPP RATs and vice versa,
taking into account traffic load.
### 5.27.3 Potential Operational Requirements
The 3GPP network shall be able to integrate fixed and wireless access
management and provide an efficient provision of services over 3GPP and
non-3GPP accesses.
## 5.28 Multiple RAT connectivity and RAT selection
### 5.28.1 Description
Section 4.4.1 of the NGMN 5G White Paper describes: "_It is expected that a
terminal may be connected to several RATs (including both new RATs and LTE) at
a given instant, potentially via carrier aggregation, or by layer 2 (or
higher) bandwidth aggregation mechanisms._ " And "_The user application should
be always connected to the RAT or combination of RATs and/or access point (or
other user equipment in case of D2D) or combination of access points providing
the best user experience without any user intervention (context-awareness)_ "
[2].
Multiple RAT connectivity is beneficial for increasing the throughput. And a
capability to select which data flow goes over which RAT benefits further. For
example, when Bob starts voice call while moving on the backseat of the car,
the system might judge that the \ are not necessarily suitable
for the voice call due to their small-cell based deployment and that E-UTRA is
better to avoid frequent handovers.
The new requirements motivated by the text above will require that the UE has
full dual radio capability, i.e. can handle both uplink and downlink radio
transmissions on both the \ and the E-UTRA RAT simultaneously.
This is expected to be commonly supported by UEs used as e.g. smart phones.
Due to the expected large diversity of market segments and type of UEs for the
new system, it is also expected that some UEs will target lower complexity
segments where single radio capability is preferred.
### 5.28.2 Potential Service Requirements
Void.
### 5.28.3 Potential Operational Requirements
The \ shall be able to provide data transmission by using both the
\ and E-UTRA RAT simultaneously, i.e. in this case dual radio UE
capability is required.
When a UE is both using the \ and E-UTRA RAT simultaneously, the
\ shall be able to select a radio access (either a \ or
E-UTRA RAT) to assign each data flow, taking into account e.g. service,
traffic characteristics, radio characteristics, and UE's moving speed.
The \ shall support UEs with dual radio capability as well as UEs
with single radio capability, i.e. a UE that cannot transmit on the \ and the E-UTRA RAT simultaneously.
## 5.29 Higher User Mobility
### 5.29.1 Description
Vehicles, trains and aircrafts will demand enhanced connectivity for in-
vehicle/on-board entertainment, accessing the internet, enhanced navigation
through instant and real-time information, autonomous driving, safety and
vehicle diagnostics. Entertainment is a key driver for the increasing need for
mobile broadband capacity, including high mobility environments such as
trains, cars and airplanes. On the other hand the automotive sector is
expected to be a very important new driver for 5G, with many use cases for
mobile communications for vehicles. The degree of mobility required (i.e.
speed of travel) will depend upon the specific use case.
The example use cases include (as identified in NGMN 5G White Paper) [2]:
\- High Speed Train
High speed train is used in various regions for inter-city transport and will
further evolve beyond 2020; these high speed trains can reach speeds greater
than 500 km/h. While travelling, passengers will use high quality mobile
Internet for information, interaction, entertainment or work.
Many on board passengers on these high speed moving trains like to access
Internet and other services using their mobile phones and other mobile
devices. However, due to different commercial network deployment and
surrounding environments (downtown/suburban, tunnel or mountain areas), there
exist some issues/scenarios that the current specified requirements are not
guaranteed [29]. It is envisioned that when these high speed trains further
increase in mobility, e.g. up to 500 km/h in the future, providing mobile
services to passengers on board will become more difficult without further
improvement in the current network systems. Therefore, it is worth
investigating potential requirements to ensure support to various Internet
services/applications accessible to users on board high speed moving rail
systems.
A high speed moving train usually contains hundreds of passengers. Take Taiwan
High Speed Rail (THSR) for example, it can totally take 923 passengers at a
fully loaded condition. Therefore, it may consider that at least hundreds of
active UEs may access the internet for different services/applications in a
high speed train. Thus, the system shall provide sufficient bandwidth for
these active UEs simultaneously at least.
In addition, on board passengers may want to watch some HD show or movie,
e.g., 4k streaming video, to spend their time on a high speed train. When
watching HD videos, it is at least 5Mbps for a user at a time. Therefore, it
is envisioned that if many passengers on a high speed train watch HD video
almost simultaneously, the system shall provide higher data rate (e.g., 100
Mbps). Not to mention that passengers may multitask, e.g., browsing the Web
and texting, for example---while watching HD video. Furthermore, if some end
users may use on-line gaming or other real-time applications/services, these
kinds of applications/services still require stringent delay requirement
(e.g., 10 ms E2E delay) such that end users can have satisfaction with these
applications/services.
\- Remote Computing
Beyond 2020, remote computing is used on the go and at high speeds (such as
vehicles or public transport), in addition to those indicated for stationary
or low-mobility scenarios (such as smart office). Moreover, automotive &
transportation industry will rely on remote processing to ease vehicle
maintenance and to offer novel services to customers with very short time-to-
market.
\- 3D Connectivity: Aircrafts
Civil aviation will implement commercial connectivity services in 2020+, and
the passenger services offered will comprise of similar applications to those
available on the ground. Another example for 3D connectivity is support of
sporting event live services where the user is moving physically in all 3
dimensions, e.g., balloonists, gliders, or skydivers. In these use cases the
licensed mobile frequency bands are used between aircrafts and ground.
### 5.29.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP system shall support enhanced mobile broadband services in fast
moving vehicles (e.g. up to 500 km/h) with enhanced user experience.
The 3GPP system shall support enhanced connectivity services in fast moving
airplanes (e.g. up to 1000 km/h) with enhanced user experience.
### 5.29.3 Potential Operational Requirements
The 3GPP system shall be able to provide the mobile broadband service in fast
moving vehicles with enhanced system experience.
The 3GPP system shall be able to provide the airplanes connectivity service
with enhanced system experience.
## 5.30 Connectivity Everywhere
### 5.30.1 Description
The new communication system is expected to efficiently provide connectivity
services beyond conventional locations. Thus, the area where connectivity is
not provided will be dramatically reduced. At locations where connectivity is
newly provided, communication among new types of devices is also conceivable.
Example of scenarios include following:
\- Commercial or recreational UAVs (Unmanned Aeronautical Vehicle) will be
controlled by various control centres such as local/federal agency or owner of
the UAVs. Depending on the deployment scenario and city skylines, the distance
between the UAV and control centre can be up to several hundred meters. In
addition, for the safety measure such as collision avoidance, the UAVs from
different organizations should be able to communicate for safe flying either
directly or indirectly.
\- UAVs are agile and quickly deployable. Thus, it can be the first one to
arrive at the emergency scene, or the only node able to set up back-haul link
to macro cell when no connection link can be setup directly from the ground to
macro cell.
\- As economy grows, amount of air travel will explode. Because people are
accustomed to being always connected to mobile broadband internet service,
demand for high speed internet during flight will also explode in the next
decade. Considering the number of private, commercial and military aircraft in
the future, efficient way of connectivity service should be provided in the
next generation of communication system.
\- Ships located within several hundred kilometres from seashore are provided
with mobile broadband connectivity. Passengers on board cruise liners enjoy
broadband services such as watching live sports events, playing on-line gaming
or making video calls to families. Broadband connectivity on the sea also
helps increased public safety so that emergency rescue operations to maritime
accidents are improved. Because installing cell towers on the sea is not
desirable, mesh-network by vessels would be desirable.
### 5.30.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP system shall be able to provide aerial object with reliable mobile
broadband connectivity.
NOTE 1: The altitude up to which connectivity is provided is subject to
regulatory constraints.
The 3GPP system shall be able to provide nautical object with reliable mobile
broadband connectivity.
NOTE 2: The distance from seashore up to which connectivity is provided is
subject to regulatory constraints.
The 3GPP system shall be able to provide reliable low-latency connectivity
between aerial objects.
### 5.30.3 Potential Operational Requirements
Void.
## 5.31 Temporary Service for Users of Other Operators in Emergency Case
### 5.31.1 Description
This use case is related to "Resilience and High Availability" (refer to NGMN
5G White Paper, section 4.4.4) [2]. Although it might be difficult for each
operator to achieve high network availability in some emergency cases (e.g.
large disaster), the cooperation among operators makes it higher.
As an example, when a specific operator's network becomes out of service in a
disaster area, time to network recovery can become faster if other operators
temporarily provide the communication services for the users of the specific
operator in the area until the specific operator network can be recovered
(i.e. Operator _A_ and Operator _B_ supports network recovery of Operator
_C_).
The other example is, in case all operators\' networks become out of service
in vast areas, time to network recovery can become faster if each operator can
concentrate on recovering different areas (i.e. Operator _A_ recovers area _1_
, Operator _B_ recovers area _2_ and Operator _C_ recovers area _3_ , at
first). Each operator temporarily provides the communication services for the
users of the other operators in different recovered areas until network
recovery of whole area can be achieved.
**Pre-conditions**
When a disaster happens in an area, Operator _A_ 's network keeps active or
recovers from out of service and Operator _B_ 's network keeps out of service.
Akiko is Operator _B_ 's user who locates in the disaster area and wants to
communicate with Yusuke.
Yusuke is Operator _B_ 's user who locates outside of the disaster area.
**Service Flows**
1\. Akiko is aware that she cannot use the communication services by Operator
B's network. And Operator B detects that its own users cannot use the
communication services in the disaster area.
2\. Operator B requests Operator A to provide the communication services for
Operator B's users who locate in the disaster area.
3\. Operator A changes the configuration of its own network in the disaster
area in order to provide the communication services for Operator B's users.
4\. After changing the configuration, Operator A's network sends a
notification to all the terminals in the disaster area.
5\. When Akiko's terminal detects the notification, it sends an access request
message to Operator A's network.
6\. Operator A's network identifies Akiko's terminal is one of Operator B's
user based on the access request message and makes temporary service provision
as a temporary user.
7\. After successful temporary service provision, Operator A's network
notifies that each temporary user can temporarily use the communication
services by its own network.
8\. With the notification, Akiko knows that and makes a voice call to Yusuke.
**Post-conditions**
Akiko can use the communication services by Operator _A_ 's network and make a
call to Yusuke.
### 5.31.2 Potential Service Requirements
Void.
### 5.31.3 Potential Operational Requirements
Subject to regulatory requirements, 3GPP system shall be able to support
temporary service for users of other than home operators as temporary users in
emergency case by serving operator policy.
Subject to regulatory requirements, 3GPP system shall be able to support
defining the limited set of necessary communication services and acceptable
terminal features for temporary users by serving operator policy.
3GPP system shall maintain an appropriate level of communications security for
temporary service.
## 5.32 Improvement of network capabilities for vehicular case
### 5.32.1 Description
The use case will study how to bring high-rate services seamlessly to users in
moving cars and buses in a dense urban environment. There are two ways to
provide support service to vehicular users. If a vehicle is equipped with a
vehicular base station (or a relay), the cellular network should be able to
provide a high-rate link to a car or a bus. If such equipment is not
available, the moving user equipment must have direct link to the cellular
network. As the car / bus rates are aggregates of those for a single user, the
rate requirement is higher for links serving them.
**Pre-conditions**
There are multiple user applications which need to be supported: High
Definition Video (streaming/non-real-time), High Definition Video
(conversational/real-time), Cloud Computer Games -- Low Latency Applications.
It is assumed that majority of the game computations occur in the cloud and
only video rendering is performed by the user device (thin client).
Users of these applications are located in cars and buses moving up to 60 km/h
in dense urban environment. The streets in this use case have 6 lanes
(counting both directions).
Looking from the view of specific applications, table 5.32-1 gives the average
needed values. These are taken as the basis for further use case definition.
The ratio between e2e and air latency has been assumed as 5 to 1.
Table 5.32-1: KPIs for three possible services
* * *
Application Average End User Throughput Latency (end-to-end) Latency (over the
air) High Definition Video 8K (streaming) \ shall support a secure mechanism allowing a legitimate entity
to disable from normal operation of a device reported as stolen.
The \ shall support a secure mechanism allowing a legitimate entity
to re-enable a recovered stolen device to normal operation.
### 5.62.3 Potential Operational Requirements
5G devices shall store device identities in a secure and tamper resistant way
in order to prevent device identification tampering, when required.
5G devices shall display the device identity in a consistent manner, not
requiring detailed knowledge of the device\'s user interface, when required.
## 5.63 Diversified Connectivity
### 5.63.1 Description
In the future, the way one can be connected to the Internet will be more
diversified. As the number of connected devices of one user increases, the
number of interactions that each user has to deal with will increase too.
While some of the interaction may simultaneously occur, some of the
interactions may occur in a mutually exclusively manner. Due to the
possibility that devices are not owned by a specific single user, it may be
difficult to assume that one device's connectivity is statically associated to
one user. Because what a user wants is contents and services, connectivity
service needs to provide simple service provisioning.
Following needs to be considered for various type of connectivity:
\- A user can be connected to the Internet via smartphone, watches, glasses,
home appliances, furniture, car, etc. As the number of connected devices for
one user dramatically increases, provision of connectivity to each device
needs to be simple and straight-forward. For example, because watches are
considered as one of fashion items, a user may possess several smart watches
and may not use the same watch every day. In this case, it is desirable that a
user is not required to make a separate subscription for each watch. Rather,
it is desirable that the authorized device for the user can be dynamically
changed..
\- Infrastructure or physical resources can be shared among people. Already in
the market, there are businesses based on sharing economy. As sharing becomes
a common phenomenon, the new model of providing connectivity may be needed.
For example, when a car is used by different people at different time, it
should be possible to dynamically change the authorized user of the
connectivity module in the car. In other words, the Internet connection used
by the car is associated to John's subscription during John is behind wheel
and to Michael's subscription when Michael is driving. Thus, connectivity may
need to be defined by who is using the connection, not by the device. Because
a device can be used by multiple users, the network should be able to prevent
fraudulent access from unauthorized users.
\- On-demand temporal provision of connectivity can benefit user convenience.
Today, some users buy prepaid SIM cards for their temporary communication use
(e.g. during their oversea travel) and make some effort to activate the cards.
However, in case of WiFi, a user can purchase connection on the spot by
opening a web browser and entering some payment information. If similar
mechanism is implemented for 3GPP access, people will have more connectivity
opportunities. This on-demand mechanism may provide users with a simple
procedure to activate on-the-spot connectivity while providing operators with
identification and security tools for the provided connectivity.
\- Content-aware control over provided connectivity service can also serve
various business model or user benefit. For example, a contents provider may
be willing to pay for the cost of any type of connectivity used for the
contents delivery without requiring a user to use specific Apps or
connectivity technology. In other cases, advertiser may be willing to pay the
connectivity charge used for the automatically downloaded multimedia
advertisement contents embedded in websites, or the user may even want the
network operator to block such contents from flowing first place.
Considering various scenarios listed above, more efficient options for
authentication, authorization and charging can be considered in the next
generation of communication system. External UICC information based
authentication [23] and biometric information based authentication can be
examples. Following is an example service flow for biometric information based
authentication.
1\. Ayumu is a user who has a biometric authentication wearable device and a
UICC-less tablet and subscribes to a mobile operator.
2\. To use the tablet, she synchronizes the device with the tablet by her
intuitive action like 'touching devices'.
3\. After the synchronization, the device scans biometric information from
her.
4\. The biometric information is sent as security information from the device
to the tablet.
5\. The tablet attempts biometric information based authentication to the
mobile operator network.
6\. After the successful authentication, she is provided with data
communication service for the tablet based on her subscription.
### 5.63.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP system shall be able to provide means to dynamically and seamlessly
change the association between a user and a device.
### 5.63.3 Potential Operational Requirements
The 3GPP system shall be able to support enhanced authentication,
authorization and charging mechanisms to support various types of connectivity
(e.g. subscribed, on-demand or content-aware connectivity).
Enhanced authentication mechanism shall be able to provide efficient means to
authenticate a user and a device (e.g. using biometric information).
Enhanced authorization mechanism shall be able to provide a user and a device
with on-demand connectivity based on operator policy.
Enhanced charging mechanism shall be able to collect charging-related
information for enhanced authentication mechanism and enhanced authorization
mechanism.
## 5.64 User Multi-Connectivity across operators
### 5.64.1 Description
The next generation 3GPP system is expected to include capabilities to meet a
wide set of disparate requirements (e.g. low latency, higher speeds, critical
communications, etc.), catering to multiple vertical markets/industries. Given
the multitude of use cases for new verticals and services, each operator,
based on its business model, may deploy capabilities to serve only a subset of
the vertical industries and services. However, this should not prevent end-
user to be able to access new services and capabilities that will be part of
the next generation 3GPP system.
As described in sections 3.2.2 and 4.5 of the NGMN White paper [2], network
operators could contemplate a variety of sharing business models and
partnership between service providers and other network operators, to enable
users to enjoy services via multiple networks simultaneously in order to
provide a better user experience.
Consider a scenario where operator A has deployed a 3GPP system that can
support V2X, critical communications and broadband services. Operator B has
deployed a 3GPP system that can support high quality video (broadcast and
multicast) and broadband services. Operator A forges partnership with Operator
B to provide a broadcast/multicast services to its users and Operator B has
similar deal on V2X for their consumers. Each user has a relationship with a
single operator (home operator). For the broadband service, the access of the
service from the home 3GPP system will be prioritized, and the partner
operator's 3GPP system for the service will be utilized only if there is no
coverage from the home network or if the home 3GPP system directs the
subscriber terminal to use the partner operator's 3GPP system.
Joe relies on V2X communication for his self-automated driving car. During
family trips, his son wants to watch live sports on the vehicle infotainment.
However a single operator in the region doesn't have a network designed to
support both the services. In this scenario, the vehicle communicates with two
independent networks simultaneously to provide the required services to Joe's
family- Operator A for V2X and Operator B for Mobile Video. Joe can
simultaneously receive broadband data, V2X and broadcast/multicast services.
Joe will continue to receive the broadband service from Operator A unless
directed by operator A's 3GPP system to utilize operator B's 3GPP system.
Figure 5.64-1: An example deployment scenario
### 5.64.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP System shall enable the operator to deploy networks to serve specific
vertical markets and use cases.
The 3GPP System shall enable users to obtain services from more than one
network simultaneously on an on-demand basis.
The use of multiple serving networks to deliver services to a given user shall
be under the control of one operator who maintains the business relationship
with the user (home operator).
In the event of the same service being offered by multiple operators, unless
directed by its home 3GPP system or because of lack of coverage, the user
shall be prioritized to receive subscribed services from the 3GPP system of
the his/her operator.
### 5.64.3 Potential Operational Requirements
Void.
## 5.65 Moving ambulance and bio-connectivity
### 5.65.1 Description
The survival of a patient during pre-hospital time is critical, especially in
emergencies such as car accidents and heart attacks when the ambulance moves
from a remote location to the hospital.
To permit early triage and treatment while transporting the patient to the
hospital, the paramedics must transmit the patient's medical data including
high resolution images, diagnostic sound and high quality diagnostic video
[24]. It may also be useful to provide two-way video-conferencing between the
ambulance personnel and the hospital staff. In order to provide enhanced
diagnosis of the patient's health, the medical equipment and the machines in
the ambulance may interface directly with the telemedicine tools located at
the hospital. With the availability of the patient's vital signs in real-time,
it may be feasible to provide remote therapeutics that assist the ambulance
personnel in administering medicine and controlling the medical equipment.
In order to support advanced telemedicine techniques, cloud-based services can
be used to provide anytime and anywhere access to patient medical records
[25], which makes security related issues more important. Additionally, the
computing resources available through the cloud are expected to support
advanced diagnostics and facilitate remote examinations of patients in high
mobility scenarios.
Since the ambulance may be dispatched to a remote location that does not have
the same coverage and available RATs as in an urban environment (location of
the hospital), fast and seamless handover between different technologies is
crucial. Furthermore, if the different RATs belong to the same operator, the
handover must be completed while maintaining a connection to the same network.
If the ambulance moves from one operator's domain to another then the mHealth
service must seamlessly switch/handover from one domain to another.
Since the route to the hospital is known or can be predicted, such real word
information can be exploited by the network to further reduce the
communications delay by moving the computing functions closer to the edge.
High reliability of communications should be achieved.
### 5.65.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP system shall support low latency and high throughput (100 Mbps) even
in the high mobility scenario (e.g. greater than 120 km/h).
The 3GPP system shall support seamless handover between suitable RATs without
introducing much complexity.
The 3GPP system shall support ultra-high reliability even in the high mobility
scenario.
The 3GPP system shall support high availability.
The 3GPP system shall support low end-to-end latency ranging from 1 ms up to
10 ms even in the high mobility scenario.
The 3GPP system shall provide appropriate level of security to ensure the data
is not compromised.
### 5.65.3 Potential Operational Requirements
The 3GPP system shall support on-demand dynamic resource utilization (compute,
storage, network and radio), which can be configured in realtime during
network service provisioning for a given UE and based on information such as
UE location, application characteristics.
## 5.66 Broadband Direct Air to Ground Communications (DA2GC)
### 5.66.1 Description
This use cases describes a broadband Direct-Air-to-Ground Communications
(DA2GC) system consisting of applications for various types of
telecommunication services, such as voice/video call, internet access and
mobile multimedia services, during flights [26].
**Pre-conditions**
A service access network infrastructure, e.g. eNB and WiFi AP (both already
certified for on-board implementation) is provided in an airplane to offer
passengers in-flight mobile voice and broadband data communication services.
During a flight, the aircraft flew with speeds between 500 km/h and up to [900
km/h] at different altitudes between 4000 meters and 10000 meters.
**Service Flows**
During the flight;
Mary wants to surf the Web.
Jason wants to make phone calls with his children.
Grace wants to participate in a video conference meeting with her colleagues.
John wants watch a Full HD streaming live video of PyeongChang 2018 or Tokyo
2020 on his tablet on his tablet.
Alice wants watch a Full HD streaming movie.
Bob wants to make a video call with his wife.
**Post-conditions**
Afterwards;
Mary starts to surf the Web.
Jason initials a phone call with his children.
Grace participates a video conference meeting.
John watches a Full HD streaming live video on his tablet.
Due to bandwidth limitation of Direct-Air-to-Ground Communications (DA2GC)
system;
Alice might not be able to watch his Full HD streaming live video.
Bob might start a video call with reduced quality such as lower resolution or
voice-only.
### 5.66.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP system shall provide Direct Air to Ground Communications (DA2GC).
### 5.66.3 Potential Operational Requirements
Void.
## 5.67 Wearable Device Charging
### 5.67.1 Description
This use case describes the scenarios for the wearable device charging issue.
The wearable device should have a subscription associated to its own
subscriber's identity (e.g. IMSI). When the wearable device communicates with
network directly, the 3GPP system will be able to collect charging data for
the wearable device. When the wearable device communicates with network via a
smart phone, there are several scenarios for the wearable device charging
issue.
**Pre-conditions**
John has a smart watch and a smart phone. Tom has a smart phone. John and Tom
are friends. Each device has a subscription associated to its own subscriber's
identity (e.g. IMSI). Each device can independently communicate with network
and the smart watch can connect with the network via a smart phone. Compared
to the smart phone, the smart watch has smaller shape, lower power capacity
and lower BB&RF capability.
**Service Flows**
For the direct link scenario, John makes a call using his smart watch. The
smart watch directly connects the network of PLMN A. The 3GPP system of PLMN A
will collect charging data for John's smart watch.
For the indirect link scenario, there are 4 scenarios for the wearable device
charging issue.
1\. John's smart watch and John's smart phone have subscriptions associated
with each other in the same PLMN A. John makes a call using his smart watch.
John's smart watch connects to the network through his smart phone, which is
managed and controlled by network of PLMN A. The 3GPP system of PLMN A will
collect charging data for both of his wearable device and his smart phone
together.
2\. John's smart watch and John's smart phone have different subscriptions,
which belong to the same PLMN A. John makes a call using his smart watch.
John's smart watch connects to the network through his smart phone, which is
managed and controlled by network of PLMN A.
2.1 The 3GPP system of PLMN A will collect charging data of his smart watch
and the smart phone both for his smart phone's subscription.
2.2 The 3GPP system of PLMN A will collect charging data of his smart watch
for his smart watch's subscription.
3\. John's smart watch and John's smart phone have different subscriptions,
which belong to the different PLMNs. John's smart watch belongs to the PLMN A
and John's smart phone belongs to the PLMN B. John makes a call using his
smart watch. John's smart watch connects to the network through his smart
phone, which is managed and controlled by network of PLMN B. The 3GPP system
of PLMN B will collect charging data of his smart watch for his smart watch's
subscription. This charging case for the smart watch is in the roaming case.
4\. John's smart watch and Tom's smart phone have different subscriptions.
4.1 John's smart watch and Tom's smart phone belong to the same PLMN A. John
makes a call using his smart watch. John's smart watch connects to the network
through Tom's smart phone, which is managed and controlled by network of PLMN
A, when Tom permits his smart phone to relay the traffic data of John's smart
watch to the network. The 3GPP system of PLMN A will collect charging data of
John's smart watch for his smart watch's subscription.
4.2 John's smart watch and Tom's smart phone belong to the different PLMNs.
John's smart watch belongs to the PLMN A and John's smart phone belongs to the
PLMN B. John makes a call using his smart watch. John's smart watch connects
to the network through Tom's smart phone, which is managed and controlled by
network of PLMN B, when Tom permits his smart phone to relay the traffic data
of John's smart watch to the network. The 3GPP system of PLMN B will collect
charging data of John's smart watch for his smart watch's subscription. This
charging case for the smart watch is in the roaming case.
### 5.67.2 Potential Service Requirements
NOTE. The following requirements also apply in the roaming case.
The 3GPP system shall support online and offline charging for an UE (e.g.,
wearable device), whether it's connected to the network directly or via
another UE (e.g., smart phone).
The 3GPP system shall be able to separate the charging data of a first UE
(e.g., wearable device) from the charging data of a second UE (e.g., smart
phone), when the first UE (e.g., wearable device) is connected to the network
via the second UE (e.g., smart phone).
### 5.67.3 Potential Operational Requirements
Void.
## 5.68 Telemedicine Support
### 5.68.1 Description
One of the applications where IoT devices are useful is telemedicine.
Telemedicine is the use of telecommunication and information technologies in
order to provide health care at a distance. It helps eliminate distance
barriers and can improve access to medical services that would often not be
consistently available in distant rural communities. It is also used to save
lives in critical care and emergency situations.
There are several factors for the growth of telehealth devices. As the number
of senior citizens grows steadily and life expectancies get longer, the number
of potential patients who need consistent monitoring increases. In addition,
patients with chronical diseases are required to regularly keep track of their
health during their normal life activities. Due to lack of time, space and
fund, government policy in some countries also drives growth in telehealth.
Actually, many private companies are jumping into this business area.
To properly support telehealth service, when the service is provided by a
private service provider, a critical event detected by a telehealth monitoring
device should get preferential treatment. Currently, this type of devices
cannot be categorized into special access classes. Furthermore, if this device
does not support voice call service, emergency call is neither used.
### 5.68.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP system shall be able to provide UE with prioritized access for
transport of critical service data (e.g., data for healthcare).
The 3GPP system shall be able to provide means to verify whether a UE is
authorized to use prioritized access for transport of critical service data.
The 3GPP system shall be able to provide UEs with relevant QoS for transport
of critical service data.
### 5.68.3 Potential Operational Requirements
Void.
## 5.69 Network Slicing -- Roaming
### 5.69.1 Description
Network slicing allows the operator to provide dedicated logical networks with
customer specific functionality, without losing the economies of scale of a
common infrastructure. As such a big variety of use cases with diverging
requirements can be fulfilled (see Use Case 5.2).
To guarantee a consistent user experience and support of services in case of
roaming, slices composed of the same network functions should be available for
the user in the VPLMN. To keep the operational effort for the operator low a
few network slices that cover most of the use cases could be agreed among
operators.
Other network slices can be composed by operators as needed. They will consist
of mainly 3GPP defined functions but could also include proprietary functions
that are provided by different operators or 3^rd^ parties. Configuration of
network slices and provision of proprietary functions will be based on
agreements between operators.
The roaming users may need to be assigned to a network slice in the VPLMN that
provides the same or similar functionality as the HPLMN slice. Different
criteria can be used to associate UEs including pre-5G UEs with a particular
slice.
### 5.69.2 Potential Service Requirements
Void.
### 5.69.3 Potential Operational Requirements
The 3GPP system shall enable operators to define and identify network slices
with common functionality to be available for home and roaming users.
The 3GPP system shall support composing of network slices from 3GPP defined
functions as well as from proprietary 3^rd^ party or other operator provided
functions.
The 3GPP system shall support to associate the user in a VPLMN to the network
slice that provides the required functionality for this user (e.g. the same
functionality as the associated network slice in the HPLMN). If no
corresponding slice has been defined the user should be assigned to a default
network slice, as defined by the VPLMN.
## 5.70 Broadcast/Multicast Services using a Dedicated Radio Carrier
### 5.70.1 Description
The massive growth in mobile broadband services over the last few years has
caused regulatory bodies across the world to consider re-allocating some of
the UHF spectrum, because of its superior propagation characteristics, for
mobile broadband services. This could potentially cause displacement of
smaller/rural TV broadcasters and make them look at alternate delivery models
(e.g. channel sharing, delivery via mobile broadband, etc.). The NGMN white-
paper [2] has considered that 5G systems could substitute or complement
radio/television broadcast services.
As a potential new business opportunity, wireless operators could deploy an
overlay 3GPP network using dedicated spectrum for the broadcast service to
serve the customers affected by displacement of smaller broadcasters within a
geographic area.
Alternatively, a new wireless entrant could deliver a stand-alone
broadcast/multicast only service over a large geographic area by deploying
less number of sites with greater coverage area.
Consider a use case where Operator A has deployed a 3GPP system using
frequency f1 in urban geographic area where demand for the mobile broadband
service, and therefore the capacity need is the highest. Operator A decides to
introduce a new broadcast/multicast service either on its own or in
partnership with another broadcast/multicast service provider. The service is
expected to be made available over a much wider area than its existing 3GPP
system.
Wireless operator A deploys an overlay over its existing 3GPP system to create
a single frequency network with few sites, each covering a wide geographic
area. In order to ensure it can accommodate a wide variety of
broadcast/multicast content simultaneously, wireless operator A uses a
dedicated frequency, f2, to deploy the broadcast/multicast service.
As a result of this overlay deployment users in urban area X can
simultaneously receive existing broadband data services (on f1) as well as the
new broadcast/multicast service (on f2). Users in suburban/rural areas Y and Z
only receive the new broadcast/multicast service.
Figure 5.70-1: An example deployment scenario
### 5.70.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP system shall enable the operator to deploy a stand-alone 3GPP based
broadcast/multicast system by forming a multicast/broadcast single frequency
The 3GPP system shall enable the operator to have the flexibility to allocate
0% to 100% of radio resources of a radio carrier for the delivery of
broadcast/multicast content.
Depending on the capability of the terminal and the services subscribed, the
user shall be able to receive the broadcast/multicast content via the
broadcast/multicast radio carrier while a concurrent data session is going on
over another radio carrier.
The 3GPP based broadcast/multicast system shall efficiently utilize the
available resources to maximize the amount of content that can be delivered
over a dedicated radio carrier network with cell coverage radius of up to 50
km.
### 5.70.3 Potential Operational Requirements
Void.
## 5.71 Wireless Local Loop
### 5.71.1 Description
The delivery of plain of telephone (POTS) and internet services to households
requires cabling, either over copper cables, or today often over optical
fibre. Many homes may be near a fibre connection but the deployment of the
last mile of the cabling, e.g., FTTP (Fibre To The Premises) can be very
expensive and not necessarily cost-effective. The addition of new subscribers,
or households, may be very expensive, if new cables need to be installed. It
may also require the operator to support two distinct systems, each with its
own subscription management, for wired and wireless subscribers.
To address this problem, delivering the last mile wirelessly may be a viable
option. Such solutions are known as WLL (Wireless Local Loop), where the last
mile is delivered wirelessly.
The subscribers of the WLL service could be either delivered a service where
the telephone looks like a regular fixed telephone, connected to a wall
socket, at least for power, or the telephone could look like a cordless phone,
whose use would be limited to the immediate vicinity of the home. The same
would be true for the internet service, and the service perception would be
similar to a WLAN access point at home. This limited service area could be
achieved by not allowing handovers at all, by limiting the service to a small
set of cells, or even geofencing.
To make the WLL service appealing to subscribers, and to take advantage of the
capabilities of future 3GPP systems, it should offer a wide set of services,
comparable to normal MBB users. The voice quality should be excellent and
bandwidths up to 1 Gbps be offered to compete with modern wired offerings. The
WLL service does not have extreme requirements for latency, speed, or
connection density. There may be some additional security requirements to
enforce the service policy, limiting the use to around the home, and possible
some pre-defined areas (e.g., shopping mall, office, school, and vacation
home)
### 5.71.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP system shall support WLL deployment with high peak and experienced
data rates.
### 5.71.3 Potential Operational Requirements
The 3GPP system shall support WLL deployment and limit the service area to a
pre-defined geographic area.
## 5.72 5G Connectivity Using Satellites
### 5.72.1 Description
One of the key requirements across various industry white papers is ensuring
high availability and service reliability via ubiquitous coverage. For a 100%
geographic coverage requirement case, satellites are ideal in covering areas
that cannot be covered by terrestrial networks. As part of wide area coverage,
the ARIB's 5G white paper [28] and 5GMF's presentation at the 3GPP RAN 5G
workshop also referenced satellite-terrestrial cooperation as part of the
mobile networks of 2020 and beyond. The ARIB 5G whitepaper called for a high
degree of commonality between the terrestrial and satellite radio interfaces.
Similarly, the NGMN white paper [2], as part of its technology candidate
analysis, has also listed satellites as an example of an emerging technology
that could be relevant as part of 5G.
There are several use cases that can only be served by satellites, and there
are other use cases for which satellites provide a more efficient solution.
These use cases are described below:
\- Areas where it is not possible to deploy terrestrial towers: For example,
maritime services, coverage on lakes, islands, mountains or other recreational
areas that can only be covered by the satellites
\- Disaster relief: During natural disasters or other unforeseen events that
entirely disable the terrestrial network, satellites are the only option.
\- Emergency response: Besides wide scale natural disasters, there are
specific emergency situations in areas where there is no terrestrial coverage.
For example a public safety uses case of an accident in a power plant.
\- Secondary/backup connection (limited in capability) in the event of the
primary connection failure or for connected cars
\- Connectivity in rural areas that are hard to cover using terrestrial
networks
\- Connectivity for remotely deployed sensors, e.g. farms, substations, gas
pipelines, digital signage, remote road alerts, etc.
\- Low bit-rate broadcast services: Satellites can broadcast wide area
emergency messages at a more efficient rate than terrestrial networks.
Standards based satellite specifications have been developed across multiple
forums. Typically, these satellite standards are modifications or enhancements
of existing terrestrial specifications. Some examples of this are: GMR (GEO-
Mobile Radio Interface) which is an ETSI standard derived from 3GPP GSM/UMTS,
xHRPD (Extended Cell High Rate Packet Data) which is a 3GPP2 standard derived
from EV-DO Rev A, and LTE over satellite specifications which is another ETSI
standard.
### 5.72.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP system shall support highly available and reliable connectivity using
satellites for use cases such as ubiquitous coverage, disaster relief, public
safety requirements, emergency response, remote sensor connectivity, broadcast
service, etc.
The 3GPP system shall support up to 100% geographic coverage.
The 3GPP system shall support an air-interface with latency of up to 275 ms
when satellite connection is involved.
The 3GPP system shall support seamless mobility between terrestrial and
satellite based networks with widely varying latencies.
### 5.72.3 Potential Operational Requirements
Void.
## 5.73 Delivery Assurance for High Latency Tolerant Services
### 5.73.1 Description
In addition to high reliability and low latency use cases, there are use cases
which require reliability and are tolerant to high latency. Some examples of
these use cases include billing information aggregation, repository updates,
search engine updates, download of a software upgrade to 3GPP devices etc.
In 5G systems, there may be massive number of devices with diverse data,
transmission and bandwidth requirements. The network may not always be capable
to handle a massive burst of information and may have to prioritize the
traffic. It may not be acceptable for certain data to be lost as the devices
may not have the capability to regenerate the data. Therefore, network must be
able to ensure delivery of this information. In many instances, it is not
vital to transmit this information immediately but the information must
eventually reach its destination within the service specified timeframe.
For these services, latency is not an issue but the information must be
communicated reliably. This is important for many use cases which rely on the
eventual consistency paradigm.
### 5.73.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP system shall ensure delivery of information within the service
specified timeframe.
### 5.73.3 Potential Operational Requirements
Void.
## 5.74 Priority, QoS and Policy Control
### 5.74.1 Description
5G network will be supporting massive number of devices with various data,
transmission and bandwidth requirements. Due to a wide range of devices,
services targeted for 5G can be very different from existing services in terms
of amount, type and pattern of data exchange over the network. In order to
cope with diverse service requirements, it is imperative that intelligent
decisions are made at the network such as allocation of resources, scheduling
of resources and adapt the network to meet these service requirements.
Many devices in a 5G network such as metering devices and monitoring sensors
are expected to operate unattended. A large number of such devices may not be
capable to alter their behaviour and adapt their participation as required to
meet diverse service requirements. It is therefore vital for the network to
assist these devices to operate such that services are able to utilize these
resources and alter their behaviour when necessary to do so.
The 5G network will also be supporting many commercial (e.g., medical) and
regional/national regulatory specific (e.g., MPS, emergency services) critical
communications applications with requirements for priority treatment. During
certain events (e.g., disaster events and network congestion), relative
priority decisions will need to be made based on priority characteristics as:
\- efficient and rapid execution of the needed priority is desired without
alteration of the underlying QoS specification,
\- the priority of a particular application may need to be different (higher
or lower) during a crisis event from that normally adopted by the system, and
\- the priority of any given application may need to be different, e.g.,
elevated, for a particular user of that application based on operational needs
and regional/national regulations.
The network must offer a means to provide high reliability, predictable
latency and ability to adapt and when necessary prioritize resources to meet
specific service requirements. Existing QoS and policy frameworks merely
handle predictable latency and improving reliability by traffic engineering.
In order to support diverse 5G service requirements, it is necessary for the
network to offer QoS and policy control for reliable communication with
predictable latency and also enable the resource adaptations as necessary.
The network also need to support flexible means to make relative priority
decisions based on the state of the network (e.g., during disaster events and
network congestion) recognizing that the priority needs may change in time
during a crisis event. Since it is outside the scope of specifications to
provide a specific ranking of priority amongst services, flexibility needs to
be provided to conform to operator objectives and regional/national regulatory
requirements.
The following example depicts a scenario involving MTC devices used for a
sample healthcare monitoring service. The upper figure shows that periodic
health monitoring reports are sent for a patient every six hours to a health
monitoring system. These reports are communicated using a best effort QoS
classification since it is not critical for the service operation.
In the middle of one of these reporting periods, the patient falls down and
starts having health complications. This scenario is shown in the lower
figure. A sensor detects this catastrophic event and reports it to the
service. The service now needs additional health monitoring reports urgently.
Moreover, depending on the initial reported problem, the service may direct
the network to coordinate group conversations involving appropriate health
facilities and designated individuals associated with the patient. Some
aspects of this communication may require the network to directly adapt
existing communication and setup new resources to meet service requirement.
The behaviour of monitoring sensors must be altered such that they deliver
their reports more aggressively, in great details and to a larger audience.
The service may further request network to tune the QoS depending on the
patient's subscription type.
This example shows that the network must offer flexible means to adjust QoS
and priority treatment and alter its behaviour based on service state. Such
adaptive measures can be feasible only if the network can adjust its behaviour
to accommodate the QoS and priority treatment requirements.
Figure 5.74-1: Example showing different QoS/Policy requirements based on
service execution status
Also, as 5G network is expected to operate in a heterogeneous environment with
multiple access technologies, multiple types of devices, etc., it should
support a QoS and policy framework that applies across multiple accesses.
Further, for existing EPC, QoS control only covers RAN and core network, but
for 5G network E2E QoS (e.g. RAN, backhaul, CN, backbone) is needed to achieve
the 5G user experience (e.g. ultra low latency, ultra high bandwidth, etc).
### 5.74.2 Potential Service Requirements
The 3GPP system shall be able to provide high reliability, and latency
required for an application to adapt and prioritize resources when necessary.
The 3GPP system shall allow flexible means to make and enforce relative
priority decisions among the different application services.
The 3GPP system shall be able to support QoS adjustments based on an
application needs.
### 5.74.3 Potential Operational Requirements
The 3GPP system shall be able to support a QoS and policy framework across
multiple accesses.
The 3GPP system shall be able to support E2E (e.g. UE to UE) QoS for a
service.
NOTE: E2E QoS needs to consider QoS in RAN, Backhaul, CN, & Backbone.
# 6 Considerations
## 6.1 Considerations on security
Considerations on security can be found in TR 22.861 [30], TR 22.862 [31], TR
22.863 [32], and TR 22.864 [33], and consolidated into TR 22.864 [33].
NOTE: The use cases related to eV2X have not been included in the listed TRs.
The documentation of security considerations related to them is for further
study.
## 6.2 Considerations on grouping of use cases
The use cases in Clause 5 can be grouped in the following categories;
**enhanced Mobile Broadband (eMBB)**
**Higher Data Rates**
5.5 Mobile broadband for indoor scenario
5.6 Mobile broadband for hotspots scenario (duplicate with NEO)
5.56 Broadcasting Support (duplicate with NEO)
5.71 Wireless Local Loop (duplicate with NEO)
**Higher Density**
5.5 Mobile broadband for indoor scenario
5.6 Mobile broadband for hotspots scenario (duplicate with NEO)
5.7 On-demand networking (duplicate with NEO)
5.32 Improvement of network capabilities for vehicular case (duplicate with
eV2X)
**Deployment and Coverage**
5.5 Mobile broadband for indoor scenario
5.10 Mobile broadband services with seamless wide-area coverage (duplicate
with eV2X)
5.11 Virtual presence (duplicate in CriC)
5.30 Connectivity Everywhere
5.66 Broadband Direct Air to Ground Communications (DA2GC)
5.71 Wireless Local Loop (duplicate with NEO)
5.72 5G Connectivity Using Satellites (duplicate with NEO & CriC)
**Higher User Mobility**
5.6 Mobile broadband for hotspots scenario
5.10 Mobile broadband services with seamless wide-area coverage (duplicate
with eV2X)
5.29 Higher User Mobility5.53 Vehicular Internet & Infotainment
5.66 Broadband Direct Air to Ground Communications (DA2GC)
**Critical communications (CriC)**
**Higher reliability and lower latency**
5.1 Ultra reliable communication
5.11 Virtual presence (duplicate in eMBB)
5.18 Remote control
5.44 Cloud Robotics
5.45 Industrial Factory Automation
5.46 Industrial Process Automation
5.50 Low-delay speech coding
5.54 Local UAV Collaboration
5.68 Telemedicine Support
**Higher reliability, higher availability and lower latency**
5.12 Connectivity for drones
5.13 Industrial control
5.65 Moving ambulance and bio-connectivity
**Very low latency**
5.14 Tactile internet
5.15 Localized real-time control
5.17 Extreme real-time communications and the tactile Internet
**Higher accuracy positioning**
5.12 Connectivity for drones
5.18 Remote control
5.43 Materials and inventory management and location tracking (duplicate with
mIoT)
5.54 Local UAV Collaboration
5.55 High Accuracy Enhanced Positioning (ePositioning) (duplicate with NEO)
**Higher availability**
5.72 5G Connectivity Using Satellites (duplicate with eMBB & NEO)
**Mission critical services**
5.1 Ultra reliable communication
5.2 Network Slicing
5.3 Lifeline communications / natural disaster
5.12 Connectivity for drones
5.31 Temporary Service for Users of Other Operators in Emergency Case
5.54 Local UAV Collaboration
5.65 Moving ambulance and bio-connectivity
5.68 Telemedicine Support
5.72 5G Connectivity Using Satellites
**Massive Internet of Things (MIoT)**
**Operational Aspects**
5.19 Light weight device configuration
5.21 IoT Device Initialization
5.22 Subscription security credentials update
5.24 Bio-connectivity
5.25 Wearable Device Communication
5.40 Devices with variable data
5.41 Domestic Home Monitoring
5.59 Massive Internet of Things M2M and device identification
5.63 Diversified Connectivity
5.67 Wearable Device Charging
**Connectivity Aspects**
5.24 Bio-connectivity
5.25 Wearable Device Communication
**Resource Efficiency Aspects**
5.20 Wide area monitoring and event driven alarms
5.24 Bio-connectivity
5.25 Wearable Device Communication
5.40 Devices with variable data
5.41 Domestic Home Monitoring
5.42 Low mobility devices (duplicate with NEO)
5.43 Materials and inventory management and location tracking
5.60 Light weight device communication
**Network operation (NEO)**
**System flexibility**
5.2 Network slicing
5.8 Flexible application traffic routing
5.37 Routing path optimization when server changes
5.48 Provision of essential services for very low-ARPU areas
5.49 Network capability exposure
5.56 Broadcasting Support (duplicate with eMBB)
5.57 Ad-Hoc Broadcasting
5.64 User Multi-Connectivity across operators
5.69 Network Slicing -- Roaming
5.70 Broadcast/Multicast Services using a Dedicated Radio Carrier
5.73 Delivery Assurance for High Latency Tolerant Services
5.74 Priority, QoS and Policy Control
**Scalability**
5.7 On-demand networking (duplicate with eMBB)
5.9 Flexibility and scalability
5.35 Context Awareness to support network elasticity
5.51 Network enhancements to support scalability and automation
**Mobility support**
5.34 Mobility on demand
5.47 SMARTER Service Continuity
5.42 Low mobility devices (duplicate with mIoT)
**Efficient content delivery**
5.36 In-network & device caching
5.38 ICN Based Content Retrieval
5.39 Wireless Briefcase
**Self-backhauling**
5.6 Mobile broadband for hotspots scenario (duplicate with eMBB)
5.52 Wireless Self-Backhauling
5.61 Fronthaul/Backhaul Network Sharing
**Access**
5.3 Lifeline communications / natural disaster
5.23 Access from less trusted networks
5.26 Best Connection per Traffic Type
5.27 Multi Access network integration
5.28 Multiple RAT connectivity and RAT selection
5.31 Temporary Service for Users of Other Operators in Emergency Case
5.55 High Accuracy Enhanced Positioning (ePositioning) (duplicate with CriC)
5.58 Green Radio
5.71 Wireless Local Loop (duplicate with eMBB)
5.72 5G Connectivity Using Satellites (duplicate with eMBB & CriC)
**Security**
5.62 Device Theft Preventions / Stolen Device Recovery
**Migration and interworking**
5.4 Migration of services from earlier generations
5.16 Coexistence with legacy systems
**eV2X**
5.10 Mobile broadband services with seamless wide-area coverage (duplicate
with eMBB)
5.32 Improvement of network capabilities for vehicular case (duplicate with
eMBB)
5.33 Connected vehicles
## 6.3 Considerations on grouping of potential requirements
### 6.3.1 Overview
In clause 6.2, the use cases in this TR have been grouped into five groups,
which have been further subgrouped into related families based on similar
requirements. In a few cases, use cases have been identified as being relevant
to more than one of the primary groups. The potential requirements associated
with the use cases can be considered as mapping to the same groupings, such
that in those cases where a use case maps to multiple primary groups, the
requirements may be split between the primary groups.
The first three groups, eMBB, CriC, and MIoT, are based on commonality of
requirements in support of a vertical service or market. The group NEO
includes requirements for the horizontal system aspects for the new 5G System.
The families reflect the variances in each group relative to the spider
diagram found in [2] and other industry white papers. These spider diagrams
illustrate the need for a 5G system to be able to support optimized
configurations for a diverse set of requirements, which may be in opposition.
For example, some configurations require support for high reliability and low
latency while other configurations require support for support for low
reliability and high latency.
Unlike previous 3GPP systems which attempted to provide a \'one size fits
all\' system, the 5G system is expected to be able to simultaneously provide
optimized support for these different configurations through various means
such as NFV, SDN, and network slicing. This flexibility and adaptability is a
key distinguishing feature of a 5G system.
### 6.3.2 Potential requirements for vertical groups (eMBB, MIOT, CriC, eV2X)
The following table collects potential service requirements from use cases
related to verticals as examples to illustrate the main difference between
verticals.
Table 6.3.2 Summary of potential requirements from each vertical group of use
cases
**Vertical group** | **Data Rate** | **Latency** | **Reliability** | **Comm. efficiency** | **Traffic density** | **Conn. density** | **Mobility** | **Position accuracy** | **Remarks**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**Group** **eMBB** | **Very High data rate (e.g. peak rate 10 Gbps, up to 10 Gbps when the user is moving slowly, DL 300Mbps with DL 50Mbps, 100Mbps)** | **Very low latency, low latency for high speed,** reliable low-latency connectivity between aerial objects |  |  | **High traffic density (e.g** **Tbps/ km2）** | **High density for UE (e.g.** 200-2500 /km2, 2000/km2, 50 active UEs simultaneously **)** | 0km/h to 500km/h ([1000km/h]) |  | **Characterised by very high traffic, high bit rate.** **No Reliability needed, no accuracy need**  
**Group** **CriC** |  | **Realtime** **low latency (e.g.** as low as 1 ms end-to-end; the case “Smart grid system”: less than 8 ms, Round trip latency less than [150 ms], low latency (~1 ms), UE-UE latency: low latency [1-10 ms], 0.5ms one-way delay, Round trip latency less than [150 ms]) | **Ultra high Reliability,** high availability **(e.g.** limit the duration of service interruption for mission critical traffic, Packet loss rate: as low as 1e-04; delivered in 8 ms, Reliability with Priority, Precedence, Preemption (PPP) mechanisms) |  | high density distribution (e.g. 10k sensor /10sqkm) |  |  | **Precise position within [10 cm]** in densely populated areas. | **Characterised by low latency, ultra high reliability**  
**Group** **MIOT** |  |  |  | **Coverage enhancement, Efficient resource and signalling to support low power,** support devices (e.g., smart meter) with limited communication requirements and capabilities | High density massive connections (e.g.1 million connections per square kilometre), to accept information from large numbers of locally dense devices, possibly simultaneously | **Low mobility (for majority of MTC cases except for inventory)** |  | High positioning accuracy in both outdoor and indoor scenarios (e.g., 0.5m) | **Difference with CC is: No low Latency**  
**Group** **eV2X** | **Medium Rate (10 of Mbps per device)** | **Low latency (e.g.** 1 millisecond end-to-end latency) | **High Reliability (** nearly 100%**)** |  | **Medium traffic density** | **Medium connection Density** (e.g. the number of vehicles can exceed 10000 in scenarios with multiple lanes and multiple levels and types of roads) | **High mobility(e.g. up to 500 KM/h,** absolute speed more than 200 km/h while relative speed more than 400 km/h). | **High positioning accuracy (e.g. 0.1 meters)** | **V2X differs from eMBB due to its high reliability , lower rate , high speed and high positioning accuracy**  
# 7 Conclusion and Recommendations
This TR contains more than 70 use cases which have been grouped into 5
categories. Conclusion and recommendations on four of these categories can be
found in TR 22.861 [30], TR 22.862 [31], TR 22.863 [32], and TR 22.864 [33].
NOTE: The use cases related to eV2X have not been included in the listed TRs.
The documentation of conclusion and recommendations related to them is for
further study.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Time Delay analysis
## A.1 Time Delay Scenarios
There are several cases for the E2E delay definition in the local
communication scenario (e.g. with ultra-low latency requirement) as shown in
figure A.1-1. Note that the numbers in the figure indicate the component links
of a communication path, for example, 1 refers to the link from a UE to an
eNB.
a) via 1, 8 (in red): RTT (round-trip-time) for Uu interface
b) via 1, 6,7,8 (in blue): E2E communication. Normally it doubles the time
delay in case a).
c) via 1,2, 3, 4,5,8 (in yellow): from UE to the APP Server
Figure A.1-1: Time delay definition for Local scenario
There are several cases for the E2E delay definition in the remote scenario
(e.g. with low latency requirement) as shown in figure A.1-2 below:
d) via 1,2,5,8,9,10,11,12,13,14 (in blue): E2E communication via different
EPCs in remote cities.
e) via 1,2, 3', 4',13,14 (in yellow): from UE to APP Server (Client-Server).
In this case but the APP Server is far away from EPC1.
Figure A.1-2: Time delay definition for Remote scenario
The E2E time delay will be longer if we consider the processing delay in each
node.
## A.2 Physical limit
The propagation delay is limited by physics, i.e. the speed of light (299 792
458 meters per second) in air and 2/3 of the speed of light in fibre
connection. With these limits, 1ms one way transmission latency can be mapped
to 300 km air propagation or 200 km for fibre based transmission as shown in
figure A.1-3. Note that the propagation delay also depends on the wavelength
(reflection index from around 1.4 to 1.6).
Figure A.1-3: Latency per distance for free air propagation and fibre
The current deployment of the fibre system is depicted by submarine cable map
(http://www.submarinecablemap.com). The intercontinental connection goes
beyond several thousand kilometres and correspondingly the latency over the
intercontinental fibre is around several 10s of ms.
## A.3 Conclusions
1\. Local Communication: E2E time delay cannot be less than 1ms.
2\. Remote Communication: E2E time delay cannot be less than 10ms.
#