# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document considers the network selection procedures requirements
for non-3GPP access types. The network selection principles covered include
both automatic and manual selection. Also considered is the operator
management of network preferences for non-3GPP access types and how the device
accesses networks offered through non-3GPP access.
Non-3GPP access includes any method by which the UE is connected either to a
core network or to a server other than by using the radio bearers standardised
by 3GPP. Examples are: BlueTooth, WLAN and fixed (wired connections).
UEs considered in this study are UEs able to connect to a non-3GPP network in
addition to its 3GPP capabilities (i.e. dual mode, multi-mode UEs).
This work in this TR is applicable to GSM and UMTS and there are no additional
considerations of EPS (Evolved Packet System).
Roaming and handover conditions between 3GPP and non-3GPP networks is not
under the scope of this document and will not be treated here. They may be
referred to, however, for the consistency of use cases and access description
consistency.
Connection to a 3GPP operator\'s core network by WLAN is out of scope where
this is I-WLAN. This is covered in [2].
Use of the Generic Access Network is out of scope.
Considerations of tariffing are out of scope.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS22.234: \"Requirements on 3GPP system to Wireless Local Area
Network (WLAN) interworking\"
[3] 3GPP TS22.011: "Service Accessibility"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Primary NO** : The Network Operator which has the commercial relationship
with the subscriber and is responsible for billing the subscriber.
**Secondary NO:** A Network Operator that has a commercial relationship with
the PNO, by which the SNO provides services to subscribers of the PNO. The
relationship could support the seamless handover of services to and from the
PNO.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
PNO Primary Network Operator
SNO Secondary Network Operator
# 4 Introduction
Currently, all UEs have 3GPP access capability (e.g. GSM, GPRS, UMTS); an
increasing number of UEs also have WLAN capability. In the future, other types
of access may be incorporated into UEs (e.g. WiMax). The network selection
procedure for 3GPP access is defined in 3GPP specifications; the procedure for
Interworked WLAN (I-WLAN) is also defined. There are no specifications for how
the UE should choose non-3GPP access types, however.
In some cases, it may be required for the UE to choose a non-3GPP access type
either initiated by the HPLMN or the end user or automatically by the UE. The
mechanism for doing this has not been defined and so this study will consider
what mechanisms should be in place to cover this.
Also, how the UE should behave when there is no preference expressed should be
considered.
# 5 Example Use Cases
## 5.1 Use Case 1
{width="5.997916666666667in" height="3.154861111111111in"}An operator has a
commercial relationship with a 3^rd^ party content provider that has its own
WLAN network that gives access to a server containing specialised content and
services (e.g. music download). The operator arranges with the 3^rd^ party
that its subscribers can access the 3^rd^ party over its WLAN network to
complement its own products and services available over GSM/3G. Authentication
and authorisation in the WLAN network is independent of authentication and
authorisation in the 3GPP network.
Figure 5.1: Use Case 1
The connection to the 3^rd^ Party is temporary while the content or other
service is delivered. The UE remains registered on the PLMN while also
connected to the WLAN access.
The facility to set an operator (and user) defined preference for the
selection of this WLAN network is required.
## 5.2 Use Case 2
A corporate customer needs frequent access to the company\'s data services. In
the office it is preferred to use the company WLAN network for speed and
convenience of data access; when away from the office, the customer will use
3G access to connect to the office data systems.
{width="5.216666666666667in" height="3.0104166666666665in"}When in the office,
there are many other WLAN hotspots in the surrounding area and they can also
be seen by the user\'s device. The other WLAN hotspots are irrelevant to the
user, therefore, an easy method of identifying, and selecting (automatically
or manually) the preferred WLAN access is required where it is available and
the preferred operator 3G access otherwise.
Figure 5.2: Use Case 2
The connection to the corporate systems could be maintained for a long period,
however, the UE should remain registered on the PLMN while also accessing the
corporate systems.
The facility to set an operator (and user) defined preference for the
selection of the access to the corporate network is required.
## 5.3 Use Case 3
A customer would like to use his home WLAN while in the house to access
services and content over the Internet. While away from home, the customer
could use public WLAN access points and/ or 3G for access to these services.
The customer's home operator (the PNO) could be the provider of the services
available over the home WLAN or these could be offered by a 3^rd^ party with
or without a commercial agreement with the home operator..
The case where the operator offers network-based services such as voice over
the home WLAN/ADSL network is out of scope of this work.
Authentication and authorisation functions in the WLAN networks are
independent of authentication and authorisation in the 3GPP network.
{width="5.9944444444444445in" height="4.692361111111111in"}
Figure 5.3: Use Case 3
An easy method of selecting (automatically or manually) the home/ public WLAN
network or 3G access according to availability is required.
The UE should remain registered on the PLMN while also accessing the services
over the home WLAN network.
## 5.4 Use Case 4
A customer of a 3GPP network operator (the PNO) would like to use a non-3GPP
access type to access services if 3GPP access coverage is lost. A secondary,
non-3GPP Network Operator (a SNO), with its own WLAN access network is
available and can connect to the PNO. In this case, the services continue to
be provided by the Core Network of the 3GPP Network Operator via the SNO.
A method of switching to the non-3GPP access point is needed. The method must
allow return from the non-3GPP access point to 3G access. The method must take
into account user and operator preferences. It must be possible to select an
operator/service provider through the non-3GPP access point.
Need to consider trusted and non-trusted cases.
## 5.5 Use Case 5
A customer has a UE which is capable of accessing two different non-3GPP RATs.
A mechanism is needed to determine which non-3GPP RAT is used when the UE is
within coverage of both and wishes to access services.
Editor\'s Note: This Use Case may be out of scope
## 5.6 Use Case 6
An operator has its own WLAN network. The operator would like to give its
customers access to this WLAN network to complement its own products and
services available over GSM/3G.
The facility to set an operator (and user) defined preference for the
selection of this WLAN network is required.
This Use Case is out of scope and is dealt with by [2]
# 6 Access types
## 6.1 Public
This is where there is an open environment where there could be potentially
many different accesses on offer from many different organisations that can be
detected by the UE. The accesses can be further classified into following
types:
  * The access provided by the service providers/ operators as a controlled public access service.
  * The access which is completely freely accessible by anyone.
The UE or end-user could choose any of these accesses (if the UE is suitably
capable) and therefore there are the following considerations:
  * Security risks
  * Identification of the accesses
  * Encryption/ authentication
  * Charging
6.1.1 Security risks
Where the access network belongs to a 3^rd^ party, there is a security risk.
Where the subscriber\'s home operator ( i.e. the PNO) has a commercial
agreement with the 3^rd^ party, these risks can be managed. However, if the
subscriber uses any other 3^rd^ party then the risks of using the access are
taken by the end user.
Security risks are different for trusted and non-trusted access.
6.1.2 Identification of the accesses
There is no current standard for the naming of accesses. WLANs are identified
by SSID but there is no agreed convention for the format of the SSID. Where
the subscriber\'s 3GPP and WLAN NOs have a commercial agreement, it would be
possible to agree an identification that is meaningful to the user.
6.1.3 Encryption / Authentication
Where the access network belongs to a 3^rd^ party (e.g. an SNO) with which the
home operator has a commercial agreement there could be encryption and
authentication applied. However, this would be separate from those of the home
operator (the PNO) and would be managed by agreement between the operator and
the 3^rd^ party.
6.1.4 Charging
Any charging between the owning operator and a 3^rd^ party is out of scope of
this document. However, mechanisms exist to facilitate inter-company charging.
## 6.2 Corporate
This is where there is a controlled environment (e.g. in a company office)
where there may be a limited number of different accesses that can be detected
by the UE. In this case, the accesses are likely to be provided by a known
organisation (e.g. the company WLAN). The accesses can be further classified
into following types:
  * Access for the corporate employees (full access to corporate systems)
  * Guest access for visitors (limited or no access to corporate systems and internet access)
This gives rise to the following considerations:
  * Company management
  * Identification of the accesses
  * Encryption/ authentication
6.2.1 Company management
Management of the enterprise access would normally be the responsibility of
the Company. There could be an agreement between the subscriber\'s home
operator and the company about how the access is managed.
6.2.2 Identification of the accesses
The identification of the access would be agreed between the subscriber\'s
home operator and the private enterprise company.
6.2.3 Encryption / authentication
The access to a company system could be authenticated and encrypted. However,
this would be separate from those of the home operator (the PNO) and would be
managed by agreement between the operator and the 3^rd^ party.
## 6.3 Private home
This is where there is a controlled environment (e.g. at home) where there may
be a limited number of different accesses that can be detected by the UE. In
this case, the accesses are likely to be provided by the end-user (e.g. home
WLAN). The accesses can be further classified into following types:
  * Access for the home user
  * Guest access for visitors
This gives rise to the following considerations:
  * User management
  * Identification of the accesses
  * Encryption/ authentication
6.3.1 User management
The user would be responsible for the management of the home access point. If
this is offered by the subscriber\'s PNO there might need to be some agreement
on management.
6.3.2 Identification of the accesses
The user would be responsible for the identification of the home access unless
there is agreement between the subscriber and the PNO concerning
identification.
6.3.3 Encryption / authentication
Any encryption and authentication relating to the use of the home access point
would be separate from those required for access to the 3GPP network. It may
also be separate from that used to access public WLAN hotspots using the same
handheld UE.
# 7 Requirements for automatic selection
## 7.1 General requirements
The automatic network selection shall be supported for following purposes:
  * To provide users with better user experiences by selecting the preferable network (e.g. higher bandwidth, cheaper tariff, loss of signal etc.) without letting users operate manually.
  * To allow UEs to select the suitable network for the applications running on the UEs from QoS and/ or IP connectivity (e.g. reachability to corporate network, The Internet, etc.) perspective.
  * To allow UEs negotiating a connection with a network to search for other preferable networks.
  * To allow operators to control the policy (e.g. priority of the network) of the automatic network selection from network capability/ optimization perspective, etc.
The high level requirements for the automatic network selection are as
follows:
  * It shall be possible for the UE to select the network based on the capability of the network such as QoS, connectivity, signal strength etc.
  * It shall be possible for the UE to detect and switch to the preferred network (when not in an active communication state with the current network).
  * It shall be possible for the home operator (the PNO) to configure the list of the preferred non-3GPP access networks that can be used for automatic selection.
  * It shall be possible for the user to configure the list of the preferred non-3GPP access networks that can be used for automatic selection. Whether a remote update (e.g. OTA) should over-ride the user\'s configuration is for further study and may be dependent on application and regulatory considerations.
  * It shall be possible for the home operator (the PNO) to configure the policy of the automatic network selection.
  * It shall be possible for the user and the home operator (the PNO) to enable/ disable the automatic network selection.
  * It shall be possible to prevent a 3^rd^ party (e.g. a SNO) and the user from modifying the network selection criteria that are provisioned and controlled by the home operator (the PNO).
## 7.2 Behaviour of the UE
Where a UE has both 3GPP and non-3GPP access types, the behaviour of the UE in
selecting 3GPP access shall follow the existing network selection mechanism. A
similar but separate mechanism shall be defined to manage the non-3GPP access.
It should be possible for the home operator (the PNO) and the end-user to set
the condition in the UE so that it will use either the 3GPP access or the
non-3GPP access mechanism as the default.
The use of the alternative access mechanism to the default one should be
determined by the criteria listed in section 7.4, below.
## 7.3 Network identification
Network access types that the UE can use need to be identifiable. PLMNs are
already identifiable by an agreed standard (Mobile Country Code + Mobile
Network Code). There is no agreed standard for other types of access (e.g.
WLAN) and these access types can take any name (e.g. SSID for WLAN). It would
be preferable to have some rules in place that govern the identity of these
access types but this is probably impractical at least in the short term. It
would be preferable for at least those non-3GPP accesses that offer commercial
services to end users and that have an agreement with a 3GPP NO to have a
standard form of identification. The forms of identification may depend on
whether the network is Public, Private, Corporate, Home etc. There may be a
need to consider if the network identifier should also indicate the capability
of the access, e.g. QoS, service capability etc.
Any agreed form of identification for non-3GPP access types should have the
following characteristics:
  * Uniqueness -- it should be possible to identify the access unambiguously;
  * Secure -- any access identification should be unfeasible to spoof or otherwise copy or emulate by any unauthorised party. It should be at least as secure as the PLMN identification.
  * Access Provider identification -- it should be possible for the provider of the access to be easily identified;
  * HPLMN and User preference -- it should be possible for the UE to know if a particular access is preferred by the HPLMN or the user;
Any agreed form of identification for non-3GPP access types could also have
the following characteristics:
  * Type of access, e.g. Public, Private, Corporate, Home
  * Capability of the access e.g. QoS provided, services available etc.
> Note: The IEEE are developing a reliable identifier (HESSID) of the operator
> of a WLAN network that may meet at least some of the requirements stated
> above. Feedback from the IEEE indicates that the HESSID should meet the
> requirement for uniqueness but not the security requirements. Further
> consideration of how security requirements can be met will therefore be
> needed.
## 7.4 Selection of a network access
The operation of the access mechanisms (3GPP or non-3GPP) needs to be based on
the operator and user preferences in similar way to how PLMN selection is
managed already. There needs to be, however, a method of determining how and
when a non-3GPP access type will be selected either in preference to a 3GPP
access type or selected and used simultaneously with a 3GPP access type. The
selection of access type could be based on the following:
  * Service required by the end user;
  * Location of the UE (proximity of suitable accesses);
  * Date, Time;
  * Pre-set User preference;
  * Pre-set Operator preference.
  * Quality of the signal and/or QoS required for the service
# 8\. Requirements for manual selection
## 8.1 General requirements
The manual network selection shall be supported for following purposes:
  * To allow users to select the preferable network intentionally from tariff perspective, etc.
The high level requirements for the manual network selection are as follows:
  * It should be possible for the user to initiate scanning for available non-3GPP networks
  * It should be possible for the users to select the preferable access network within a list.
  * It should be possible for the user to select a preferred non-3GPP network from a list without the need to scan through all available networks.
## 8.2 Behaviour of the UE
It is not intended to specify how a UE should allow an end user to select
non-3GPP access types when in manual mode, however, some guidelines are
discussed below.
## 8.3 Network identification
As described in section 6.2, above, non-3GPP access types do not have
standardised identities. It may be possible to agree some form of standardised
naming for some of these as discussed above but most will probably have
arbitrary names. It is important that the end user can easily identify any of
these that are recommended by the HPLMN, however.
## 8.4 Presentation to the user
The non-3GPP access types could be listed separately from the available PLMNs
or within the PLMN list presented to the user. In this case, it is important
that any non-3GPP access types are clearly identifiable.
## 8.5 Selection by the user
The method by which the end user will select non-3GPP access types will depend
on the UE manufacturers\' implementations.
# 9 Requirements for operator management
## 9.1 General requirements
The home operator (PNO) management shall be supported for following purposes:
  * To limit the networks that can be automatically selected by the UEs.(e.g. using a Black List or Forbidden list).
  * To control the policy of the automatic network selection (e.g. define under what circumstances selection would take place).
  * To prevent the modification of the configuration of automatic network selection by the users.
The high level requirements for home operator (PNO) management are as follows:
  * It shall be possible to configure the list of the networks that can be automatically selected by the UEs on the UEs remotely.
  * It shall be possible to configure the policy of the automatic network selection on the UEs remotely.
  * It shall be possible to limit modification of the configuration of automatic network selection on the UEs by the users.
  * It shall be possible to delete the configuration of network selection on the UEs remotely.
## 9.2 Update of the list
It should be possible for the home operator (PNO) who is a PLMN network
operator (i.e. the HPLMN) to maintain the list of preferred non-3GPP accesses
in the user\'s UE in a similar manner to the maintenance of the PLMN lists in
accordance with TS22.011.
It should be possible for the home operator (PNO) who is a non-3GPP network
operator to maintain the PLMN lists in the user\'s UE in accordance with
TS22.011
It should be possible for a list of non-3GPP accesses to be maintained
separately from the list of preferred PLMNs.
It should be possible for the home operator (PNO) who is a non-3GPP network
operator to maintain a list of preferred non-3GPP accesses in the user\'s UE
in a similar manner to the maintenance of the PLMN lists.
Over The Air (OTA) updates should be allowed for the above.
## 9.3 Additional information
For each non-3GPP access, it should be possible for the home operator (PNO) to
add a number of \"reason to select\" parameters. These define the conditions
by which the UE will select the non-3GPP access. The conditions should also
specify if 3GPP access is required simultaneously with non-3GPP access.
The \"reasons to select\" are those listed in section 6.2 along with the
appropriate qualifiers (e.g. specific dates & times in the case of selection
by date & time).
# 10 Requirements for end-user management
## 10.1 General requirements
The end-user management shall be supported for following purposes:
  * To allow end-users to select an access network among all available networks.
  * To simplify the configuration on the UEs.
The high level requirements for end-user management are as follows:
  * It should be possible for the end-users to configure the settings of the network selection such as list of the networks that can be selected on the UE, policy of the network selection, activation of the automatic and manual network selection, etc.
  * It should be possible for the end-users to delete entries on the user list
## 10.2 User entry
Users should be able to enter onto the User List specific non-3GPP accesses
based on the appropriate identifier.
# 11 Service considerations
## 11.1 User experience
As users find different types of connectivity, consideration of end user
expectations must be assessed. Users have high expectations of their mobile
device and they expect good usability and good service.
Expectations include good battery life (could be a problem with multiple
access UE); good voice quality and reliable, fast data services. Also, the use
of the different access types including selection needs to be easy.
The effect on the user experience by the use of multiple access types needs to
be considered, therefore, and any solutions should be tailored to maintain
good user experience.
## 11.2 Regulatory services
Consideration needs to be given to how emergency calls would be handled where
the UE is connected to a 3^rd^ party by a non-3GPP access type where the 3^rd^
party is not an operator or is an operator that does not have emergency call
capabilities. There may be a need to reconnect to an operator to service the
emergency call. A suitable algorithm may need to be provided in the UE to
ensure this.
Note 1: In the scenarios it is stated that the UE could remain registered on
the PLMN while accessing other services/content by WLAN therefore this may
solve this problem]
Note 2: Lawful Intercept may need to be considered.
## 11.3 Other services
The selection of an access network is based upon a set of selection criteria
which should include the service capabilities of those access networks. This
could be done by the format of the access identifier as described in subclause
7.3, above.
# 12 Conclusions
Currently, the network selection behaviour of the UE is defined only for 3GPP
access types (i.e. GERAN, UTRAN, E-UTRAN, I-WLAN). With the increasing
availability of other types of access on the UE (mainly WLAN currently but
could include other types in the medium term), it is desirable to define how
and when these new types of access can be selected.
The reason for this is to ensure predictable behaviour and also allow the user
or application to select the most appropriate type of access for the service
required. The various considerations include ability to uniquely identify the
access, security, the circumstances under which the non-3GPP access would be
selected and the user experience.
Concerning the access identity, it will be important that an agreement is
sought with the appropriate specification body (e.g. IEEE 802.11) on how to
uniquely identify the access. It is also important that the security
requirements are met and these may need further consideration and consultation
with other groups.
It is therefore concluded that a mechanism needs to be defined to control how
the UE selects non-3GPP access types and that this should complement the
mechanisms already in place for the selection of 3GPP access types (GERAN,
UTRAN, E-UTRAN, I-WLAN). This should include similar features to those for
PLMN network selection mechanism including consideration of "Steering of
Roaming". "Steering of Roaming " by the VPLMN is not envisaged for GSM or
UMTS.
This study has identified potential requirements for selection of non-3GPP
access and may lead to CRs to TS22.011 [3] and/or TS22.234 [2].
#