# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
As a mobile service network evolves to a versatile packet data network, the
service paradigm of mobile operators is gradually shifting from voice oriented
communication to multimedia information sharing. A mobile device is no longer
a simple tool for person to person communication, but now becomes an
indispensable item for receiving essential information distributed for human
society. Information for entertainment services such as TV or Radio show, as
well as information for public safety, energy saving, environmental
conservation, and for searching emergency aid, need to be delivered to the
right person at the right time in any location. The multimedia broadcast
service, MBMS [2], and packet switched streaming [8][9] is a widely deployed
technique which fulfils the basic service requirements. However provisioning
of content is currently allowed for a limited group of content providers, and
ordinary users have no way to utilize the service.
The rationale of Personal Broadcast Service is to give an open opportunity for
ordinary people to generate content, and broadcast it on air. A variety of
broadcast services and a new device market may emerge once users are able to
access the content distribution service. Abundant broadcast content will be
available to be selected by 3GPP users. The extent of other potential service
area is unbounded.
The objective of this document is to present some envisaged use cases of
Personal Broadcast Service, for creative engineers and standard developers to
pursue further investigation of PBS, and move to the next steps necessary for
enhancement of relevant 3GPP standards.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Report presents potential use cases of Personal Broadcast
Service. It aims to take account of service and system aspect of PBS. The
minimum set of service requirements associated with each use case will be
identified.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.146: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.246: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS) user
services\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.246: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Architecture and functional description\".
[5] ETSI TS 181 016 v.2.0.0, \"Telecommunications and Internet converged
Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Service Layer
Requirements to Integrate NGN Services and IPTV,\" 2007-11
[6] OMA, \"Mobile Broadcast Services Requirements,\" Approved Version 1.0 --
12 Feb 2009
[7] 3GPP TS 22.115: "Service Aspects; Charging and Billing (Release-9)"
[8] 3GPP TS 22.233: \"Transparent end-to-end packet-switched streaming
service; Stage 1\".
[9] 3GPP TS 26.234: \" Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming
Service (PSS); Protocols and codecs\".
[10] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Protocols and codecs\".
[11] U.S. Department of Transportation Research and Innovative Technology
Administration, "Intelligent Transportation Systems Benefits, Costs,
Deployment, and Lessons Learned:2008 Update", September 2008, www.its.dot.gov
[12] ERTICO - ITS Europe, "Activities 2008", 08 May 2008, www.ertico.com
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**(void)**
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
(void)
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
BSU Broadcast Service User
CoD Contents on Demand
MBNO Mobile Broadcast/Multicast Network Operator
PBS Personal Broadcast Service
PBSP Personal Broadcast Service Provider
PBSF Personal Broadcast Service Function
PBCP Personal Broadcast Contents Provider
UGC User Generated Contents
VoD Video on Demand
# 4 General description
## 4.1 Service concept and definition
Personal Broadcast Service (PBS) is a content distribution service using 3GPP
accesses. This enables any Internet user, private company or mobile user to
generate content, and broadcast/multicast it to mobile users. Types of User
Generated Content (UGC) in this context include not only multimedia files such
as video, audio or image, but also variety of digital information distributed
for various purposes such as e.g. public safety, energy saving, environment
conservation.
The User Generated Content can be distributed in either a time unconstrained
Content on-Demand (CoD) method, or in a time constrained, real-time method. In
the former case, the contents are uploaded to a server and downloaded at the
request of users at a convenient time. Most CoD applications and some MBMS
user services may be delivered using unicast bearers as defined in [3][10].
However in some application, CoD users may share the content using multicast
bearer service. A use case of shared VoD service is presented in this
document.
In the case of live broadcast, content is delivered to multiple users
simultaneously, as such a broadcast or multicast bearer is necessary for
resource saving. A broadcast bearer service [3] is efficient when a large
number of receivers are expected and the receivers are spread in many cellular
areas. Major TV or Radio services are examples that may utilize such a
broadcast bearer. UGC stream may also be transmitted using broadcast bearer if
the population of receivers justifies cost for delivering the content. Private
show of very popular celebrity or daily episodes of small production company
may be a potential example. Another area of use case is localized broadcast in
campus, theatre or theme park. Details of the use cases are presented in this
document.
In contrast to broadcast bearer service, UGC will be delivered using multicast
bearer service in many use cases. Content providers of Personal Broadcast
Service may appear and disappear at any time. Content distribution may
commence on an ad-hoc basis. Therefore, it will be inefficient to pre-allocate
resources for such unpredictable content providers. New interfaces and
requirements will be necessary to support such content providers. The
communication may occasionally be bi-directional. Interactive data generated
by mobile receivers needs to be passed to content providers. Some additional
functions, e.g. time-stamping or adding cell ID, may need to be performed on
upstream user data. This aspects associated with interactivity will be
discussed in detail.
Currently, 3GPP supports an OMA [6] defined interface to be used between
mobile operator and broadcast content provider [4]. Therefore, most broadcast
applications that require a static allocation of resource may be supported
using existing 3GPP and OMA standards. However new set of requirements and
standards may be necessary to support distinctive features of PBS use cases as
introduced in this document.
## 4.2 Roles of actors in use cases
The roles of major actors used in the description of each use case are
explained in this section.
### 4.2.1 Personal Broadcast Content Provider (PBCP)
Personal Broadcast Content Provider (PBCP) is an individual or organization
that produces electronic content for the purpose of distribution to mobile
users. Any Internet user, company, school, government or even major TV or
radio broadcasting company can be a Personal Broadcast Content Provider if one
uses PBS.
In order to provide PBS service, PBCP needs to make information about the
content available to a service provider, and reserve necessary resources via a
wired or wireless connection that will be used for content delivery. The
connection may be established via Internet or 3GPP radio access. When 3GPP
radio access is used, the type of content provider is referred to Mobile PBCP.
The Mobile PBCP is a 3GPP user, and the user typically generates contents
while it is moving.
PBCP may receive user data via the Internet. For example, interactive data
transmitted by service users, or user information provided by mobile operator
can be delivered to PBCP.
### 4.2.2 Personal Broadcast Service Provider (PBSP)
Personal Broadcast Service Provider (PBSP) is an independent service provider
whose major role is brokering content delivery between PBCPs and the mobile
operator. While it is always possible for a mobile operator to directly
receive contents from PBCPs without the involvement of PBSP, independent
service providers may do better business by advertising, collecting good PBCPs
and developing convenient User Interface software. Use cases in this document
assume the role of PBSP between mobile operator and PBCP.
In some use cases, distinction between PBCP and PBSP is unclear. An example is
when a PBSP creates contents using automated content production machine or
unmanned device, e.g. game server, surveillance camera. In such case, the role
of PBSP and PBCP are combined.
### 4.2.3 Broadcast Service User (BSU)
The Broadcast Service User (BSU) is typically a 3GPP UE that consumes PBS
content distributed via 3GPP accesses. Some use cases assume a dedicated PBS
service terminal integrated with a vehicle (e.g. car audio, GPS navigation) be
used rather than a hand held device. The actual transmission method (i.e.
unicast, MBMS) is transparent to the BSU.
### 4.2.4 Mobile Broadcast/Multicast Network Operator (MBNO)
The Mobile Broadcast Network Operator (MBNO) provides content distribution
services to PBSP and PBCP. The service typically includes distribution of
content information, session notification and content transmission. MBNO is
responsible for protecting content from unauthorized access by users. MBNO may
report information of usage statistics (e.g. receiver population, resource
consumption, access failure of user) to PBSP and PBCP.
When an interactive service is requested, the MBNO provides reliable bi-
direction communication path between BSUs and PBSP (or PBCP). Upon reception
of BSU data, MBNO may perform access control, fairness control, DoS prevention
and other filtering actions. MBNO may further perform some value added
functions on the BSU data, such as e.g. time-stamping, appending cell
identity.
Figure 1 below shows an example of service association between the actors.
Note: This diagram is intended to provide clarification of the MBNO service
interaction with other actors.
{width="5.1715277777777775in" height="2.6680555555555556in"}
Figure 1: MBNO service association with actors
In Figure 1, the PBSF (Personal Broadcast Service Function) box depicts an
interconnection point with PBSP, PBCP and Mobile PBCP. The PBSF may be a sub-
function of the BM-SC [4] or an independent network element. Details of the
architectural description are beyond the scope of this document.
Figure 1 illustrates that MBNO needs to provide external interfaces to PBSP
and PBCP respectively, and an internal interface via network of the Mobile
PBCP. The interfaces are used for dynamic resource provisioning , content
delivery, information transfer, upstream data delivery, and there may be other
uses. The interface between MBNO and broadcast content provider is used for
static resource provisioning, and it is shown for completeness.
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 Receive only personal streaming content services
### 5.1.1 Service description
The receive only personal streaming content service is similar to real-time
Internet TV or radio service. Any Internet user or 3GPP user may register the
service, and distribute contents at their convenient time. The content
provider (i.e. PBCP) should be able to negotiate resources and costs for
distribution of contents. The negotiation may be performed directly with
operator (i.e. MBNO) or indirectly via PBSP. Failure of receiver (i.e. BSU)
access to the content due to resource shortage or UE incapability should be
reported to PBCP, therefore PBCP may adjust resource demand of the content.
Notification should be given to BSUs prior to PBS session initiation. The BSU
may choose categories of broadcast to be notified about, e.g. from an
electronic service guide. The service system of this use case must be able to
support various size of BSU group, from single user to hundreds of users per
cell.
From a user\'s perspective, the service type is similar to operator provided
TV or VoD service [3]. List of available PBS streams may be provided and users
may change content streams. Latency for content switching must be within a
bearable bound to the user's perception.
BSUs should be able to access PBS service using third party software which is
not supplied by MBNO or PBSP.
QoS should be supported. Resource allocation may be triggered by the request
of user or by service provider. It should be possible to report the number of
users to the service provider, and remove resource when there is no more a
user receiving the service.
A number of subscription and charging methods should be supported. For
example, the PBS service can be provided based on monthly subscription, pre-
paid subscription (e.g. pay-per-service, pay-per-usage), temporary
subscription for limited period or without requiring subscription at all.
Roaming users should also be able to access the service based on operator
policy.
### 5.1.2 Service benefit
Any Internet or 3GPP user may have an opportunity to broadcast one\'s own
streaming content on air. 3GPP users may enjoy an abundance of real-time
streaming content in addition to MBMS TV service [3]. A dedicated service
terminal (e.g. car audio or portable radio capable of receiving PBS) and new
service markets may emerge.
### 5.1.3 Additional remarks
Broad range of use cases of mobile broadcast are studied in other standard
organizations. Interested readers are advised to reference [5][6] for use
cases that are not fully listed in this document.
This use case and the requirements can generally be applied to other use
cases.
### 5.1.4 Service requirements
  * PBSP and PBCP (including Mobile PBCP) should be able to negotiate QoS and cost for content distribution.
  * PBSP and PBCP (including Mobile PBCP) should be able to request notification prior to content transmission.
  * Notification may be given to BSUs prior to streaming session initiation.
  * BSUs may be able to choose categories of content to be notified about, e.g. from an electronic service guide.
  * BSUs should be able to access PBS service using third party user interface software.
  * Statistical information (e.g number of BSUs, resource usage) should be collected and make available to PBSP and PBCP.
  * It should be possible that failure of BSU access (e.g. resource shortage or UE incapability) be reported to PBCP.
  * Handover within the same radio access technology should be transparent to BSU.
  * Latency for content switching should be within an acceptable bound to user perception.
  * QoS should be supported.
  * When macro cell and Home (e)NodeB cell are combined, service continuity between the cells should be supported.
## 5.2 Interactive Personal Broadcast Services
### 5.2.1 Service description
Interactive Personal Broadcast Service is a bi-directional content
distribution service. In this use case, BSUs may transmit uplink data, and
PBCP may use the feedback data for downlink content generation. Interactivity
can be supported in two types of services, embedded menu type service and
conversation type service.
In embedded menu type service, PBCP integrates sub-menus in streaming content
which are displayed on top of a video image. When BSU selects a menu, short
uplink message is transmitted, or a dedicated bearer is established for
further interaction with an application server. Use cases of this service type
are on-line opinion poll, on-line auction, interactive shopping or electronic
coupon service [5][6].
In conversation type service, BSUs may participate in real-time talk show
using human readable data, such as text, image, short voice or video clips.
PBCP may combine the BSU transmitted data with streaming content. PBCP may
control membership for participation in conversation. For example, PBCP may
send invitation message to one of BSUs or refuse service to abusive
participant. MBNO is required to support necessary functions to perform access
control and policy control over BSU transmitted data. Quality and fairness as
well as delay constraint must be guaranteed, therefore human interaction
between PBCP and BSUs is well supported.
MBNO may also transmit supplemental information when it delivers BSU data. For
example in applications like on-line auction, timestamp can be added on BSU
transmitted data in order to use the information for determining best bidder.
Other information as location of BSU, current cell identity, UE capability may
also be appended.
### 5.2.2 Service benefit
The interactive service offers users opportunity to participate in
broadcasting.
The upstream data generated by service interaction will improve operator
revenue. In embedded menu type service, the web link may point to the portal
service of PBSP. Multi-party conversation using interactive PBS may be a new
revenue creating service.
### 5.2.3 Additional remarks
The multi-party conversation type PBS service offers similar user experience
as conference call or Push to talk on Cellular (PoC). While these services use
multiple unicast connections, conversation type PBS service is based on
multicast or broadcast bearer, as a result, resource usage is efficient, in
particular when the communicating parties are camping in the same cell.
Another popular use case based on interactive broadcast service is on-line
gaming of which detail of service scenario is described in [5][6].
### 5.2.4 Service requirements
  * Embedded menu type interactive PBS service should be supported.
  * Conversation type interactive PBS service should be supported.
  * It should be possible to configure access control and policy control > over BSU data transmission.
  * Supplemental information (e.g timestamp, cell identity) in addition > to upstream user data should be made available to PBSP or PBCP.
## 5.3 Mobile Content Provider Service
### 5.3.1 Service description
The Mobile Content Provider (i.e. Mobile PBCP) provides personal broadcasting
service using mobile device. Typical use cases are outdoor group activities
such as guided tour, sport activity, school excursion.
For example in a guided tour, a tourist guide use mobile device for speaking
group of tourists instead of using noisy amplifier. Streaming audio[9][10] as
well as multimedia information, electronic tickets for entering tourist sites
can be distributed. The location information of the tourist guide is
constantly broadcast that the tourists may keep track of the guide when they
are spread in large area. Paging capability of the mobile PBCP is an important
function to support because the tourist guide needs to reassemble the group
and move to another location. Interactive communication between the mobile
PBCP and users also need to be supported.
{width="4.270833333333333in" height="3.1666666666666665in"}
Figure 2 Use Case for Guided Tour
In other service scenario, carpoolers may find suitable car drivers around
their location using PBS.
The user who looks for car sharer sends a request message to PBSP (i.e.
carpool service provider) with information of current location and
destination. The PBSP verifies the identity of the requester, and broadcasts
the message in the area the requester is waiting. The PBSP may broadcast
additional information of the requester (e.g. image, personal preference,
native town) that the car drivers may find interest to the message.
Car drivers who received the message calculate the route, and if it is
possible to share the car, the driver sends his offer to PBSP. The PBSP also
verifies identity of the drivers, and sends information of drivers to the
requester. When there are multiple drivers offering carpool, the requester
selects one of the drivers and directly contact to the driver. Courtesy
message of refusal may be given to other drivers by PBSP on behalf of the
requester.
### 5.3.2 Service benefit
Group of users involved in outdoor activity may keep contact using mobile
device.
The mobile operator may charge for uplink usage of mobile PBCP or broadcast
reception of BSUs.
Carpool has been promoted in many countries for public benefit, such as energy
saving, green-house gas reduction, urban traffic reduction. The PBS based
carpool service will greatly improve convenience and safety of carpooling
because PBSP provides service to those members that identity is proven.
### 5.3.3 Additional remarks
None.
### 5.3.4 Service requirements
  * It should be possible for mobile user providing content distribution service using PBS.
  * Interactivity should be supported between mobile content provider and service users.
  * Mobile content provider should be able to page multiple users
  * Mobile content provider should be able to limit the area of content broadcast based on geographical location information
## 5.4 Public Transport Information Broadcast Service
### 5.4.1 Service description
This service provides information of public transport (e.g. current bus
location, passenger boarding state, estimated arrival time) to mobile users.
Similar service has been known in ITS (Intelligent Transport Systems) [11][12]
area, and some pioneering services have already been introduced in some
country. A service case is that the location of Bus is monitored using road
side wireless sensors, and the information is provided to public using ARS
(Automated Response System), SMS or fixed display installed in each bus stop.
This PBS based service further improves convenience of ITS by delivering
tracking information of public transportation directly to mobile device. It is
assumed all public vehicles periodically report information of location (e.g.
GPS coordinates) to PBSP (i.e. ITS server in this context) via 3GPP accesses.
A user connects to PBSP using mobile device and plans route, transit stations
and vehicles to use, and register the trip. This registration of trip
information may not necessarily require reservation of seat or payment of fee.
The PBSP periodically broadcast information of selected vehicles in the area
of the user. Note that there may be multiple users waiting the same vehicle
that sending the information repeatedly to each individual device will be
inefficient. The mobile device receives information of all connecting vehicles
and shows estimated arrival time, passenger boarding state, etc. If a vehicle
is fully boarded or delay is expected, alternative route is suggested. As a
vehicle approaches to user location, the mobile device alarms and the user
rides one the vehicle. The mobile device alarms again at each transit station
and shows guide information for changing vehicle.
{width="4.770833333333333in" height="3.21875in"}
Figure 3 Use Case for Public Transport Information Service
### 5.4.2 Service benefit
This service will be helpful to regular commuters as well as travelers who
visiting unknown place.
Passengers do not need to wait in outdoor bus stop, but they may wait in
nearby comfort place, such as coffee shop, because they know the location of
vehicles.
Critical information of vehicles, such as unexpected delay or over-boarding
state, can be spread quickly that waiting users may choose alternative
transportation. This behavior will also be helpful to alleviate congestion
state.
### 5.4.3 Additional remarks
This service requires pre-registration of trip plan by users in order to
broadcast information of selected vehicle. Using the information, it is
possible to estimate number of passengers to ride on each vehicle. The
transportation company may use the information to improve service. For example
the company may deploy reserve vehicle into busy line if unexpected surge of
passengers is forecasted.
Note that public transport system may be different by each city and country.
However the information format and user interface of this service need to be
consistent. This may require global standard for service.
Charging aspect is an interesting issue if pre or post-payment using mobile
device is supported. In particular, considering overseas roaming user, the
mobile device can be used as versatile charging device for any type of public
transportation in any country.
### 5.4.4 Service requirements
  * It should be possible to broadcast public transport information (e.g. ITS) using PBS.
## 5.5 Shared VoD Service
### 5.5.1 Service description
This service offers VoD (Video on Demand) like broadcast service by sharing
content streams with multiple users.
Similar to VoD service, users browse list of contents and send their request
for content distribution to a service provider. The service provider selects a
content that has received the request from the largest number of users. The
service provider checks if a multicast stream for the selected content can be
allocated in the cells that the users are camping. If there is sufficient
resource available, the service provider broadcasts a notification to users.
Users may join the multicast session and start receiving the content stream,
as a result, it maximizes the opportunity for resource sharing.
When the request of the largest group is satisfied, the service provider
selects content request of the next largest group for multicast stream
allocation. If there is any cell that necessary resource cannot be reserved,
the service provider waits until multicast stream can be allocated in all
cells that users of the next largest group are camping.
From the user\'s perspective, the user may immediately join any on-going Shard
VoD session, or send a request for new content distribution. If the requested
content is a popular one, it may quickly gather sufficient number of requests
and distributed frequently. However, if the content is a rarely viewed one,
resource for the content may be allocated only when the network is free. In
that case, the user may need to set a function for automatic saving and view
the content later.
As the users move in and out of a cell, handover should be performed with
minimum service interruption. Resource in a cell may quickly be depleted if
users of different content streams coincidentally converge in a cell. In that
case, it should be possible to reduce transmission rate of streams, e.g.
discarding some packets, with sacrificing video quality. Quality degradation
due to packet dropping should be confined in a cell and it should not affect
streams in other cells.
### 5.5.2 Service benefit
Since the Shared VoD service maximizes opportunity for resource sharing,
relatively large number of users can be serviced than the case providing
contents using VoD. It also has an effect to reduce the service cost by
sharing the expense with large number of users.
### 5.5.3 Additional remarks
The key aspect of this service is use of multicast service bearer in providing
VoD like service in order to achieve bandwidth saving. However the level of
efficiency may also be achieved using broadcast service bearer if the
population of users justifies global allocation of resource. In this case, a
periodic counting of users should be supported that if the number of users is
reduced to certain degree, the service bearer can be switched to unicast or
multicast service bearer and the broadcast resource can be reassigned to other
contents.
### 5.5.4 Service requirements
  * It should be possible to provide shard VoD service using PBS.
  * It should be possible for PBSP to identify cells of users.
  * It should be possible for PBSP to designate cells to broadcast message.
## 5.6 Personal Download Content Service
### 5.6.1 Service description
Users are able to download lucrative contents on a regular basis from a
content provider. A typical user behavior is to download the contents and
consume it when commuting back and forth between home and working place. The
service is getting popular and an increasing number of users use to download
Mbytes files when travelling. The content is the same for each user and users
are expected to consume the service when it's most appropriate for them.
For an MBNO this gives an opportunity. The service approach, which is based on
point-to-point download is resource wasting. As the service subscribers can be
reached simultaneously over their respective broadcast area, why not to
allocate a few seconds radio resource during the off peak time and download
the contents to many users at the same time. Once downloaded, the non time
critical content can be consumed whenever the subscribers want. This approach
is resource efficient and allows a good business opportunity for MBNO and
PBCP. By allocating a slot from broadcast resource it is able to satisfy PBCPs
business need without overloading network (see 26.346 for MBMS download).
### 5.6.2 Service benefit
This property gives an opportunity to download large files to many users in a
resource saving manner compared to point-to-point download approach.
This property enables new business model for MBNOs, PBCP and PBSPs.
This property enables an enjoyable service for BSUs.
### 5.6.3 Additional remarks
File download can be performed using pull mode or push mode service.
### 5.6.4 Service requirements
  * PBSP and PBCP (including Mobile PBCP) should be able to register for the content distribution service via the Internet or 3GPPP access.
  * PBSP and PBCP (including Mobile PBCP) should be able to request notification prior to content transmission.
  * It should be possible to give notification to BSUs prior to download session initiation.
  * Statistical information (e.g. number of BSUs, resource usage) should be reported to PBSP and PBCP.
  * Means to accomplish content download in case of failure e.g. due to handover shall be provided
## 5.7 Localized Broadcast Service
### 5.7.1 Service description
This service provides free or discounted access of PBS service available only
in a designated area, such as campus, shopping mall, stadium or theme park.
For example, video lectures or company seminar can be broadcast to students or
employees in a campus. Tourist guide or free movie can be provided to visitors
of park, shopping mall or other public place. When multiple cameras are
installed in concert hall, theatre or sports stadium, live broadcast streams
of different view point can be provided to audience, that users may choose
their favourite view of player, sound or multi-language speech.
Notification of availability of the service should be given to eligible user
when the user enters into the designated area. However the user should be able
to disable reception of PBS notification selectively according to pre-
configured category. For example, the user may disable any PBS notification
activated around shops, but the user may allow notification around tourist
sites. The service provider (i.e. PBSP and PBCP in this context) may also
transmit message or notification in order to announce important update of
session.
The designated service area may consist of macro cell, Home (e)NodeB cell or
combination of both. When macro cell and CSG cell are combined to form a
designated area, service continuity of localized broadcast should be supported
when users move between the macro cell and Home (e)NodeB cell. Subject to
operator policy and user subscription type, service continuity should be
supported when a user moves out of the designated area. Otherwise, it is
acceptable to discontinue the localized broadcast service outside of the
designated area.
### 5.7.2 Service benefit
Major benefit to customer is free or discounted charging of the service in the
designated area. Operator may offer lower service cost in the area where
focused use of the service by large population is expected. Companies or
organization may pay for the service cost to provide free customer service.
Users may enjoy live broadcast information conveniently using mobile device.
New concept of electronic marketing using localized broadcast may ultimately
replace typical paper leaflets or handouts distributed for advertisement.
### 5.7.3 Additional remarks
None.
### 5.7.4 Service requirements
  * Localized broadcast service should be supported in area consisting of one or more macro cells, Home (e)NodeB cells or combination of both cells.
  * When macro cell and Home (e)NodeB cell are combined to constitute a localized broadcast service area, service continuity between the cells should be supported.
  * Notification of availability of the service should be given to eligible user in an event that the user enters into a localized broadcast area.
  * User shall be able to disable or enable reception of notification according to pre-configured service category.
  * QoS should be supported for localized broadcast service.
  * Subject to operator policy and user subscription type, the service provider of the localized broadcast should be able to disable or enable access of users.
# 6 Charging
Various charging and billing methods described in TS22.115 [7] should be
supported.
PBSP or PBCP may pay for the service cost if they want to provide free access
service. Use cases of shopping mall or tourist place is the example.
Subject to service contract with PBSP or PBCP, operator may need to share the
profit collected from BSUs. Multi-party on-line gaming or music download
service is the example.
It should be possible to support variable charging rate by access hour.
# 7 Security
The PBS should be protected against unauthorized access.
The BSU may hide or disclose privacy information to PBCP.
# 8 Conclusion
PBS is an enabling technology for any private organization or ordinary user to
broadcast one's own contents on air. The service is characterised by one-to-
many group mobile communication that the potential benefit has not been
sufficiently studied. Use cases and benefits to users, operators as well as
device manufacturers are investigated in this document. Some requirements and
charging aspects necessary to support PBS are presented.
It is concluded that full range of service interaction between personal
content providers and users may not be supported adequately in existing 3GPP
specification. Further enhancement in existing 3GPP specification may be
necessary..
#