# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This Technical Report identifies the issues and needs surrounding messaging
solutions related to the 3GPP IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS).
The report is designed to identify essential messaging requirements, taking
into consideration use cases that illustrate the needs of both service
providers and users.
The report also highlights and contrasts the messaging capabilities of the
3GPP Multimedia Messaging Service and how these messaging capabilities might
relate to or interact with the messaging services running in IMS.
An evaluation of various messaging solutions and technologies is provided
together with an analysis on how they relate to the identified requirements.
Finally, conclusions are drawn on the possible actions 3GPP may wish to take
in regards to potential future work.
To encourage rapid end-user adoption and to protect existing operator
investments, IMS Messaging is an evolution and enhancement of the current 3GPP
multimedia messaging user experience.\ \ IMS messaging mechanisms should re-
use industry wide specifications as far as possible and propose extensions as
necessary.
It is a goal of IMS Messaging to leverage the popularity of existing messaging
services by supporting end-user friendly interfaces and features, flexible
service offerings and to adopt and support existing pre and post-paid billing
models.
# 1 Scope
The objective of this Technical Report is to:
a) Describe use cases that illustrate the service requirements for IMS
messaging.
b) Derive the broad 3GPP requirements for IMS messaging services.
c) Investigate the possible requirements for interworking with networks
outside the 3GPP domain
> d) Develop an analysis of the possible interaction between IMS messaging
> services and existing 3GPP messaging services (SMS, EMS and MMS) as well as
> other relevant 3GPP services such as presence IMS group management and so
> on.
e) Identify possible routes to standardization by:
> 1) Adopting existing and emerging standards, e.g. OMA, IETF.
>
> 2) Modifying and enhancing existing and emerging standards.
>
> 3) Developing of new standards.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[\] \ \[ ([up to and
including]{yyyy[-mm]\|V\}[onwards])]: \"\\".
[1] 3GPP TS 22.141: 3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and Systems Aspects; Presence Service, Stage 1
[2] IETF RFC 2779: \"Instant Messaging / Presence Protocol Requirements\"
[3] IETF RFC 2778: \"A Model for Presence and Instant Messaging\"
[4] IETF RFC 3261: \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\"
[5] draft-ietf-sip-message-07.txt: \"Session Initiation Protocol Extension for
Instant Messaging\" September 2002.
Editor\'s note: The above document cannot be formally referenced until it is
published as an RFC.
[6] 3GPP TS 22.140: 3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Stage 1, Multimedia messaging
service
[7] 3GPP TS 22.250: 3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Stage 1, IMS Group Management
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
(void)
## Abbreviations
CPIM
IP Internet Protocol
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
MMS Multimedia Messaging Service
OMA Open Mobile Allicance
SIMPLE SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraged Extensions
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
SMS Short Message Service
# 4 Messaging services
## 4.1 Background
In today\'s world there are many different types of messaging services
available both in the wired and wireless worlds. Some services are supported
in both, others are only found in one. For example, SMS has been designed for
a wireless environment, whereas Instant Messaging has been designed for a
wired environment. The expectations of these services also differ in that some
services are designed to be used in what is perceived as \'real time\' and
others are designed as a \'mailbox\' service where the message is stored ready
for collection or delivery at a later date.
This section investigates current messaging services and examines the
expectations and differences between them.
In summary this section highlights the important fact that services where the
message is delivery in what is perceived as real time by the user, are
currently only being offered within the wired world, whereas all standardized
services within the wireless world can be classed as non-real time.
Introducing what is perceived as real time services into the wireless world
brings many challenges not currently experienced in the wired environment. For
example bandwidth, limited footprint/memory in the terminal, charging and
billing.
It is therefore important to consider the issues and impacts that surround
these types of services when deploying in a wireless world.
The messaging services covered in this section are as follows:
## 4.2 SMS
The SMS messaging service allows a message to be created on a mobile device
irrespective of whether the device is connected to a network or not. Once
connected to an appropriate network, the user can send the message to the
originators home SMSC, where it is stored until it is possible for the SMSC to
deliver the message to the recipient. (please note that it is technically
possible to send the message to any SMSC). Because of the short delivery times
sometimes experienced by users of the SMS service, it could be perceived as
being a real time service. However, \'real time\' delivery cannot be
guaranteed due to the fact that there is no communications association between
the originator and the recipient, only the originator and the SMSC, and
therefore the SMS service should not be considered as a \'real time\' service.
## 4.3 MMS
SMS has been very successful messaging service within in the second-generation
GSM system. In the third generation mobile system it is envisaged that the
Multimedia Messaging Service, MMS, shall succeed this easy to use, non real-
time text transmission service. The MMS will allow users to send and receive
messages exploiting the whole array of media types available today e.g. text,
images, audio, video, while also making it possible to support new content
types as they become popular.
As with SMS, the MMS message is created using the application on the device.
Again, the device does not have to be connected to a network in order to
create a message. Once connected to the network the message can be sent from
the device to the originators MMS server, again similar to the SMS
implementation. This can be classed as the originating process.
However, the MMS delivery process differs to that of the SMS in that instead
of sending the message directly to the recipient, the MMS server forwards the
message to the recipient\'s MMS mailbox. Depending on the architecture, the
recipient may be notified that a new MMS message has arrived in their inbox
from which the recipient can then connect to their mailbox to retrieve the
message or have the message pushed to them.
Unlike SMS where there is a degree of expectancy of a \'real time\' service,
users may perceive that the service is non real time. Neither the originator
nor the recipient perceives that the message will be delivered in real time,
more of a service where a message can be deposited and retrieved at the
recipients will.
## 4.4 Instant Messaging
Instant Messaging is becoming popular within the Internet world although
interoperability between services is not widely available. The popularity is
party due to the attraction of users being able to converse with one another
without the need for voice. There are many scenarios where this is an
advantage for example noisy areas such as the pit lanes used in F1 motor
racing. The expectation of the service from a users viewpoint is to be able to
communicate with other users in real time. Therefore the service relies on a
communications association between the originator and the recipient in order
to meet this expectation. The service is primarily text based, although most
services allow for various attachments to be added; however the delivery
expectation of the attachment is not consider to be real time. Most
applications include access to a \'Presence\' service to allow users to see
who is available for Instant Messaging, however this is not mandatory. If the
recipient is not available then most Instant Messaging services allow for the
storage of a message until the recipient becomes available, acting in a very
similar manner to that of SMS.
In terms of the originating and delivery process there is a requirement to
provide what is perceived as a real time connection between the two parties
for the basic transfer of messages between the parties, however for
attachments the perception is that these will be delivered in a background
mode.
## 4.5 Chat
Chat has established itself within the Internet environment as a popular
service. The service enables people to send text to a central point (chat
server) allowing all of those users who are connected to the central point to
view the text. Interoperability between \'Chat\' rooms is not seen to be
necessary within the Internet world as all users have the capability (if not
the authorisation) to join the same chat room. However, Chat may evolve into a
messaging service that requires \'Chat\' rooms to interoperate, but for the
foreseeable future this is not a requirement. Chat rooms can be divided into
two categories, Private and Public, each providing a very similar service but
different in the authorisation of use. The Chat services of today are
primarily text based, allowing messages to be sent to all those within the
chat room or to selected users. Likewise attachments can be sent but as with
the Instant Message service the expected delivery of these is not considered
to be \'real time\'.
In terms of the originating and delivery process there is a requirement to
provide what is perceived as a real time connection between the originator and
the recipients.
## 4.6 Email
Email is used everyday and can be viewed as probably the most popular method
of messaging currently available. The architecture for email is well known and
established, with protocols that allow interoperability between various email
systems. Email is very similar to that of MMS described earlier in that it is
a non-real time service where the originator does not rely on the fact the
recipient of the message is on-line using the system. The messaging service
allows a user to deposit a message in the mailbox of the recipient to be
collected/read by the recipient at an appropriate time.
In terms of the originating and delivery process there is no requirements for
a real time connection. Neither the originator nor the recipient perceives
that the message will be delivered in real time.
## 4.7 Messaging in the IMS
As 3GPP has developed the concept of IMS it is thought useful to consider how
a SIP based IP network can be utilised to provide messaging capabilities. One
of the chief characteristics of SIP is its ability to rapidly and efficiently
create real-time sessions between groups of users. It therefore appears that
SIP based messaging would be a potential candidate to provide the equivalent
of \"Chat Room\" and \"Instant Messaging\" (IM) type services found on the
Internet today. Typical characteristics instant messaging are instant delivery
of the messages to the targeted recipient(s) and interaction with presence
information where users are able to see who is on-line as well as their
status.
A chat room is a \"place\" where multiple persons can join, follow and
contribute to the ongoing discussion and leave the \"room\" at any time. Chat
rooms are more permanent in nature when compared to IM exchanges and may be
created by users or service providers. Additionally, chat rooms can be further
divided to the private and public chat rooms. Normally, users who are
participating in chat room will receive all the messages that are sent by the
other participants. Similarly, the users are also able to send private
messages to the chat room or even privately to some participant.
Unfortunately, the most popular internet based instant messaging services are
usually based upon closed and proprietary protocols which has made it
impossible for different service providers to allow interoperable messaging
between their respective users. Additionally, internet based services do not
take into consideration the wireless environment and the needs of operators to
provide services that are commercially viable by for example, providing
support for charging. This report will further elaborate the essential
messaging characteristic of these services and state how they may be enhanced,
e.g. operators may be able to create and then advertise chat rooms containing
specific content where users who join the room may be charged an \'entrance\'
fee,
{width="4.03125in" height="2.9590277777777776in"}
Figure 1. Example IMS messaging service: Chat room
# 5 Current messaging standardisation summary
## 5.1 CPIM and SIMPLE work in IETF
Because of the emergence of Presence and Instant Messaging as a powerful new
medium of communications over the Internet using independent, non-standard and
non-interoperable protocols developed by various vendors, the IETF set the
goal in the late 1990s to define a standard protocol so that independently
developed applications of instant messaging and/or presence can interoperate
across the Internet. For this purpose a new IETF working group IMPP, (Instant
Messaging and Presence Protocol) was created to perform this work. In 2000
IETF RFC 2779 [2] was created which defines a minimal set of requirements that
an Instant Messaging and Presence Protocol must meet. In IETF RFC 2778 [3] a
model of a presence and instant messaging system was also created.
Following the creation of IETF RFC 2778 [3] and IETF RFC 2779 [2] the IETF set
about determining the appropriate protocol mechanisms to fulfil these
requirements and functional model. Some proposals were based on SMTP the
protocol used by email and MMS. However the conclusion of this discussion was
that SMTP and email protocols while be ideal for store and forward type of
messaging that is email were not appropriate candidates for extending to me
the real time delivery and conversational style requirements for Instant
Messaging and Chat. The proposal that attracted the most support was to base
the presence and messaging protocol on the protocol and mechanisms defined in
IETF RFC 3261[4], SIP. A new IETF working group, SIMPLE, (SIP for Instant
Messaging and Presence Leveraged Extensions) was created to perform the work
on the protocol for Presence and Instant messaging. The output of this group
has been a number of Internet drafts including draft-ietf-sip-message [5]
which defines a new SIP method the MESSAGE method which is designed to deliver
instant messages for instant messaging and chat applications. This is
currently in IESG last call and is about to become approved and published as
an RFC.
Work in IETF on SIMPLE is continuing including using content indirection for
delivery of very large message content
MSN Messenger is already has support for SIP and AOL has announced that they
will support SIMPLE for interoperability with other external Instant Messaging
and Presence applications. These two Internet messaging systems together
service a large majority of the current Internet messaging users and systems.
SIMPLE being based on SIP will easily operate using the existing 3GPP IMS or
can be implemented using just the 3GPP PS domain using GSM or UMTS access.
SIMPLE is also compatible and easily integrated with the 3GPP Presence
Service, which is based on the SIMPLE model and protocols. 3GPP IMS already
supports the SIP MESSAGE method.
SIMPLE meets the requirements outlined in this report for real time immediate
messaging and work is proceeding in IETF on extending SIMPLE for session based
messaging. SIMPLE is also meets most of the requirements for deferred
messaging however it does not currently support email addressing and the work
on content indirection is ongoing. SIMPLE is of course compatible with CIPM
and SIMPLE based Instant messaging and Presence systems
## 5.2 Wireless Village and OMA messaging work
The Wireless Village Forum that is now part of the Open Mobile Alliance (OMA)
has also been working on Presence and Instant Messaging for wireless and the
result of this work has been Wireless Village 1.0. However unlike CPIM and
SIMPLE Wireless Village 1.0 only addresses Instant Messaging within the
Wireless space and does not address the issue of seamless interoperation with
other Internet based Instant messaging services. Wireless Village 1.0 is based
on WAP and HTTP mechanisms and as such can operate in either the 3GPP CS or PS
domain using GSM or UMTS access.
Wireless Village is now starting work on Wireless Village 2.0. The work on 2.0
is not particularly well advanced but there are proposals within OMA that 2.0
should be based on CPIM and SIMPLE.
Wireless village is currently not compatible with CIPM and SIMPLE based
Instant messaging and Presence systems including the 3GPP Presence Service or
with 3GPP IMS addressing and routing mechanisms.
## 5.3 3GPP work on existing messaging standards
GSM and 3GPP has had a long experience with working with messaging. SMS was
part of the original GSM standard and its use has greatly exceeded all
expectations experiencing a growth comparable with that of instant messaging
in the Internet. SMS has recently been enhanced to support graphics and small
pictures and now a new standard has been developed MMS for delivering
multimedia messages such as colour pictures. MMS is store and forward type
messaging similar to email and can use email addresses where as SIMPLE does
not. MMS is based on the IETF email protocol SMTP. MMS meets most of the
requirements outlined in this report for deferred messaging however it does
not meet the requirements for real time immediate messaging or session based
messaging. MMS also requires some work to make it suitable to for the current
3GPP IMS such as support for SIP URLs and compatibility with IMS signalling
routing mechanisms. MMS inter-works well with email systems but is not
compatible with CIPM and SIMPLE based instant messaging and Presence systems
including the 3GPP Presence Service.
# 6 IMS Messaging
## 6.1 Messaging types
Messaging can be divided to two different main classes based on the
expectation of the sender. The sender either expects the message to be
delivered immediately or he does not care so much whether the message is
delivered immediately or later. In the latter (deferred delivery messaging)
case, the sender assumes that message will be delivered to the recipient and
network utilize store-and-forward capabilities to provide higher probability
of reliable delivery or to support delivery time definitions set by the
sender.
The immediate case can be further divided to two different sub-classes based
on the actions required form the user before he can encage to communication.
The user can both send and receive messages without any prior actions or he
may be required to join to a messaging session before the message exchange can
take place.
The messaging types considered in this report are
\- **Immediate messaging** : The sender expects immediate message delivery in
(near) real time fashion.
NOTE: Typically, sender is aware of the availability of the recipient(s)
(possibly through the use of the Presence service) before sending this type of
message as, if the recipient is not available, the message may be discarded or
deferred. An immediate message may be deferred by the recipient\'s network
based on the message filtering settings defined by the recipient or by the
recipient\'s IMS service provider.
\- **Deferred delivery messaging** : The sender expects the network to deliver
the message as soon as the recipient becomes available.
NOTE: The system or the sender may request that the message is delivered at a
specified time e.g. earliest time of delivery within the specified message
expiry time when the message is discarded.
\- **Session based messaging** : The sender(s) and the receiver(s) have to
join to a messaging session e.g. chat room, before message exchange can take
place.
NOTE: The sender and recipient expect near real time message delivery.
Typically, recipients of the session based messaging that are not joined to a
group or are not available will not receive the messages. Typically, a sender
may send a message to all participants in the messaging session without
addressing them individually.
## 6.2 Use Cases
NOTE: Use cases are not exhaustive, variations are possible
### 6.2.1 Instant Messaging with immediate delivery
Premise
> The user, \"Harry\" can see from his buddy list that \"Jane\" is ready to
> receive messages. Harry wants to send a immediate message to Jane to see if
> she would like to met up for coffee
Actions
> Harry sends a message to Jane and she replies, suggesting that they meet in
> five minutes at a particular coffee bar.
Considerations
> The above scenario shows a successful message transfer between Harry (the
> sender) and Jane (the recipient). Considerations should be taken when the
> delivery of the massage can not take place, which could be a network issue
> (e.g. due to loss over coverage) or a user choice (e.g. changes to the
> profile). The application may then inform Harry that the deliver of the
> message to Jane has been unsuccessful.
### 6.2.2 Instant Messaging With \"Delivery at a later date\"
Premise
> This is a similar scenario as for simple instant messaging above in that the
> user Harry can see from the Buddy list that Jane is unable to receive
> messages, however Harry decides to send an immediate message t o Jane
> anyway.
Actions
> Harry sends a message to Jane. The system determines that Jane is
> unable/unwilling to receive the message and indicates to Harry that the
> message will be delivered at a later date or deleted
Considerations
Harry may chose an alternative messaging service to achieve this.
### 6.2.3 Sending a document during an instant message exchange.
Premise
> Harry sees a model car that he thinks is the one that Jane has been looking
> for. He sees that she is available, but in a meeting. He wants to know if
> this is the right model before he buys it.
Actions
> Harry sends Jane a message and a photo of the model car. Jane responds with
> a text message and has not interrupted her meeting.
Considerations
> The mechanism used to send the photo does not affect the expectation of the
> user during the instant message exchange.
### 6.2.4 Delivery of documents at a later date
Premise
> Harry and Jane are chatting about a problem that they are both working on.
> Harry realises that he has a useful document for Jane to read at a later
> date. Jane is unable to receive the document now, but wants to collect it
> from her mailbox at a later date. This is equivalent to someone saying
> \"I\'ll e-mail you that document in a minute\" when they are having a voice
> conversation.
Actions
> Harry sends Jane a message \"I\'ll send you a copy of the report to your
> e-mail so that you can receive it later\". He then sends the document to her
> e-mail account.
Considerations
-
### 6.2.5 Message Filtering
Premise
> Harry has an instant message identity that is publicly available. His
> subscription with the service provider is such that he has a filter set that
> after a particular time (e.g. 1800) all messages are diverted to a mail box.
Actions
> Instant messages sent to Harry are diverted to a mail box from which Harry
> can retrieve at a later date.
Considerations
> Harry may wish to be notified that an instant message has been delivered to
> his mail box.
### 6.2.6 Chat Room
Premise
> Harry and Jane are chatting about a problem that they are both working on.
> They realise that they need other colleagues to provide input to the
> problem.
Actions
> Harry creates a messaging session and invites all the co-workers to
> participate in a discussion.
Considerations
-
### 6.2.7 Sending a document during a chat room session
Premise
> Harry , Jane and Peter are discussing a place to meet. Harry provides
> directions in the form of a map that he has available.
Actions
> Harry sends a message to Jane and Peter with the attached map. The system
> determines that Jane is unable to accept the attached map due to for example
> a rejection by Jane\'s UE due to lack of memory.
Considerations
> The system determines that Jane is unable to accept the attached map due to
> for example a rejection by Jane\'s UE due to lack of memory. Jane wishes to
> retrieve the map at a later time e.g. after she\'s been able to make more
> memory available.
### 6.2.8 Location and Presence Enhanced Messaging
IMS Messaging Clients can utilize location and presence information from the
IMS Core Network to enhance the messaging experience.
\- At 5 minutes before noon Mark decides he\'d like to get together with
friends for lunch.
\- Mark looks at the buddy list on his handset to see the status of his
friends. After examining location, availability, who\'s online and who\'s
busy, he chooses Sally.
\- Mark is offered a menu with options to call, IM, MM, or leave voicemail for
Sally. Since Sally\'s status indicates that she\'s online, he chooses to send
an immediate message inviting her to lunch at the Ritz. Sally accepts the
invitation by sending a return IM.
\- Alternatively, Mark could choose initiate a group chat session, inviting as
participants all friends in his buddy list, indicating that only those within
a 5 mile radius should be included.
\- Once the chat session is established, Mark then invites the group to lunch,
leading to a vigorous exchange of messages between the participants regarding
which restaurant they will choose.
### 6.2.9 IMS Messaging Selects Appropriate Delivery Methods
The IMS Messaging Service can select the appropriate message type depending on
the status and preferences of the recipient, and upon the preferences of the
sender.
\- Sally is flying to New York City. Jason is already in NYC. Sally\'s phone
is offline.
\- Jason sends a message -- it can not be delivered until Sally lands so the
IMS Messaging Service automatically stores the messaging, waiting for Sally to
be available. When Sally lands and turns on her phone the message is delivered
to Sally. \"Meet us at Joe\'s Restaurant\".
\- Having seen Jason\'s message. Sally needs directions. She replies to
Jason\'s message. She sends IM to Jason \"Where\'s the Bar?\". Jason is on
home on his PC. The message routed to the IMS Messaging client running on the
home PC. Jason replies with directions + Map from his home PC. Sally gets the
message with the map and is on her way.
\- Alan carries a phone and a PDA. He sets a rule that multimedia messages
(messages with attachments) be delivered to his PDA, but all text messages be
delivered to his phone.
\- Vic has a pager, phone and a PC. For certain classes of important messages
notification is sent to all devices. Vic can choose to pick up message from
most relevant device.
### 6.2.10 IMS Messaging Service Provides Added Value to Messages Through
Network Based Services
The IMS Messaging Service provides users a rich filtering mechanism that
enables protection from unwanted messages and control over the messaging
environment. IMS also enables service providers and end-users to save their
messages for future reference.
\- Lisa sets up message filters that choose to only deliver messages from co-
workers and those friends she\'s placed on her buddy list. All other messages
are refused by the service.
\- Lionel is at work and IMs with Jason who mentions a URL. Later, at home,
Lionel wants to retrieve and goes back to that IM thread to get the URL.
\- Mark joins group that is in progress. He wants to see the conversation
thread from before he joined. Mark chooses to view the previous 25 minutes of
the conversation to catch up on what is being discussed.
### 6.2.11 IMS Messaging Support for Value Added Service Providers
The IMS Messaging Service enables Value Added Service offerings. The Value
Added Service Providers use user profile information in addition to presence
and location to provide personalized service.
\- FAN Club Services (ie: Swarming) - Betsy is a member of a famous
personality\'s spotters group chat based service.
\- Updates on location and photos of the action at those location are sent to
the group as submitted by chat participants. Betsy only hears about these
activities if she is within 5 miles.
\- Betsy is in central London and doesn\'t get messages about his activities
at the football match on the outskirts of London (too far away).
\- Later -- He appears at a trendy central London nightclub and Betsy is
alerted and automatically placed into the chatroom. She swarms.
## 6.3 Interaction with other Features
### 6.3.1 MMS
Deferred messaging is already supported within 3GPP systems in the form of
MMS. In some use cases the sender deliberately selects which messages should
be deferred, or agrees to defer the message when the network is unable to
deliver. In either case, a solution should be found that allows messaging
within the IMS to interact with the MM S, so that Deferred messaging is
supported by the existing capabilities of the MMS.
MMS supports the conversion of media when the sent format is not supported by
the recipient\'s UE. This may be a useful feature in immediate ,messaging if
the conversion can be done in \"real time\". The capability which detects the
UE capabilities and converts the media should be a common capability for IMS
messaging and MMS.
### 6.3.2 IMS Group Management
Chat rooms support a group of users who are participating or can participate
in a \"chat session\". IMS messaging should make use of the IMS Group
Management 3GPP TS 22.250 [7] capability for the support of multiparty
sessions.
### 6.3.3 Presence
IMS messaging should interact with the Presence capability being defined for
3GPP [1].
## 6.4 Messaging Interoperability
It is vital that the interface between messaging systems should be
standardised in order to allow messages to be transported between PLMNs, and
to be correctly rendered both by different terminals types and devices from
different manufacturers.
Figure 2 below illustrates the scope of this report and how messaging service
residing in the IMS should interact with 2G networks and the Internet. It is
envisaged that IMS messaging will be a way to allow messaging between a
varieties of different network types. For example, it should be possible for
PLMN B to create a chat room that can be accessed via users of other 3G PLMNs,
2G PLMNs and on the Internet. However, unlike many messaging systems found on
the Internet, the interface between PLMNs should allow for a complete set of
features to allow the controlled exchange of important messaging related
information such as presence and charging data.
Figure 2. IMS messaging overview
In order to achieve the required level of interoperability the following
should be considered:
a) content formats;
b) content adaptation;
c) transport protocols;
d) user addressing formats; and
e) interworking functions.
# 7 Deferred delivery messaging requirements
Deferred delivery messaging requirements shall be able to provide the same
functionality as specified in the MMS stage 1 3GPP TS 22.140 [6]. For the
purposes of the requirements for IMS messaging in this report, the terminology
\"MMS\" in 3GPP TS 22.140 [6] maps to \"IMS messaging\" and the terminology
\"MM\" in 3GPP TS 22.140 [6] maps to \"message\".
In addition to the requirements stated in 3GPP TS 22.140 [6] it is required,
that IMS addressing is supported i.e. it shall be possible to send multimedia
messages to an IMS public identity of a subscriber.
NOTE: It is proposed that further work on the requirements on deferred
messaging is done in 3GPP TS 22.140 [6].
# 8 Open Issues
The purpose of the section is to provide a list of open issues that were
identified. These issues are:
\- Session based messaging may need new requirements to enable fetching
message log e.g. after a loss of radio coverage
\- Use of e-mail addresses requires more consideration
\- Address translation/mapping requires more analysis
# 9 Conclusions and Recommendation
This technical report has analysed how messaging in the IMS can be provided in
a way that is complementary to existing messaging capabilities available in
3GPP.
It has already been agreed in this report that requirements for deferred
messaging match closely those of MMS however some enhancements may be required
such as support for SIP URLs and IMS modifications to the signaling transport
to align with the IMS. It is therefore recommended that an evolution of the
current 3GPP MMS specifications is considered as a basis for IMS deferred
messaging.
CPIM and SIMPLE meets most of the requirements for Immediate messaging and
work is ongoing regarding Session based messaging within SIMPLE and has the
advantage of interoperating with external instant messaging systems and
compatibility with IMS and the 3GPP Presence Service. It is therefore
recommended that an evolution of the SIMPLE work is considered as a basis for
Immediate and Session based messaging. The IETF is still open to taking on
board additional 3GPP requirements for SIMPLE and that the best way forward
for meeting the additional requirements for Immediate Messaging and Session
based messaging is through influencing IETF SIMPLE work.
This report also makes the following recommendations :
\- The filtering of SPAM and offensive content etc although an important issue
that was of interest to a number of parties, is outside the scope of this
report as an application/service issue
\- IMS messaging should make use of the IMS Group Management capability for
the support of multiparty sessions.
\- All the messaging types are seen as equally important from the SA1 point of
view.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Architecture considerations
# A.1 Introduction
In today\'s world there are many different types of messaging services
available both in the wired and wireless worlds. Some services are supported
in both, others are only found in one. Each service has it\'s own individual
characteristics, however in general messaging services are made of messages
that require immediate delivery, and messages that do not require immediate
delivery. This section examines the architectural issues surrounding the
delivery of these types of messages by looking at the current messaging
services as mentioned in the \'Background\' section.
# A.2 SMS
Although the expectation of the user has moved towards the SMS service
appearing to be real time, the fact of the matter remains that the SMS service
is not a real time service since there is no communications association
between the originator and the recipient. Therefore the message type that is
used in this service is classed as \'Non-Immediate Messages\'. However, the
fact that the message is classed as \'Non-Immediate\' does not preclude the
fact that the delivery of the message may still appear to be \'real time\' to
the user.
From an architectural viewpoint the question is raised as to whether or not
developments to the IMS are required in order to support this service.
# A.3 MMS
With MMS there is no expectation from the user for the message to be delivered
in \'real time\'. Currently the expectation is similar to that of e-mail where
the originator sends to message to a mailbox. Therefore, since there is no
communications association between the originator and the recipient the
messages can be classed as \'Non-Immediate Messages\'. As with the SMS service
this does not preclude the fact that the message could be delivered in what
appears to be \'real time\'.
As with SMS, the question has to be raised as to whether or not there are
requirements to develop the IMS to be able to meet these requirements.
# A.4 Instant Messaging
When using the Instant Message service, the user\'s expectation is that the
communication between themselves and the recipient is \'real time\'. To meet
this expectation it is important to have a communication association between
the originator and the recipient. The following are two examples of how this
could be achieved:
**Scenario 1:**
In this scenario, an IMS session is set-up between the originator and the
recipient. Each terminal has an Instant Message application capable of
creating messages in a standardised way to ensure interoperability with other
terminals that also have the same ability.
Although this scenario provides a simple solution, implementation of the
service remains complicated and restrictive. For example, the service is being
provided via the terminal, and not being provided by the operator. How will
the operator charge for the service? Is the implementation efficient in
providing such a service?
This would also mean that every service that makes use of \'Immediate Type\'
messaging would require the application to be built in or be able to download
to the terminal as necessary. Because of these issues it is suggested that
this type of solution is not considered for deploying services that utilise
\'Instant Messaging\' types.
Scenario 2:
In this scenario it is assumed that the Instant message can be conveyed over
the IMS signalling path, this would require further study as to the maximum
size of the message that can be transferred to enable the operator to provide
a service that is perceived as real time.
It is noted that on some occasions users transfer attachments between each
other, however the user\'s expectation is that these are not delivered in
\'real time\'. Therefore, attachments would not be considered as messages
carried IMS signalling path. Instead it is suggested that a separate context
is established for the transfer of such a file.
Using this scenario has a distinct advantage over the use of MMS in the case
where the user is roaming. This is discussed as follows:
Consider the following scenario where User A, who is a UK registered user
roaming in France is holding an Instant Messaging session with User B, who is
a French registered user roaming in the UK.
In this scenario where User A sends User B a message irrespective of the
solution used, IMS or MMS, the message trombones across the operator\'s
roaming boarders three times. However the key difference is that within an IMS
solution there is a communication association between the originator and the
recipient, where as with the MMS solution the association is between the
originator and the MMS server.
Now consider the scenario where during the message session User A wants to
send User B a photo which is in the region of 500K.
In the case of the MMS deployment, the 500K file is sent from User A to MMS
Server of User A positioned in the UK. From there the 500K file is forwarded
to the MMS server of User B in France. The 500K file is then sent to or
retrieved by User B in France. As can be seen the trombone effect is now a
serious problem in terms of efficiency and cost.
If this scenario is now compared to the scenario where a separate session is
created to transfer the attachment it can be seen that the 500K file only
crosses the operator roaming boundary once. Clearly, a far more efficient
solution.
Further study is required into the charging and billing issues but from early
investigation this solution does provide the operator with various options.
# A.5 Chat
The Chat service as noted in the previous section, is very similar to that of
Instant Message type services where the expectation of the user is that an
originated message reaches the recipients in what is perceived as \'real
time\'. Therefore it is important that there is a communication association
between the originator and the recipients.
The main difference between the Chat Service and the Instant Message service
is that in general Instant Messaging is between two users, whereas chat is
normally between a group of people. However it is the fact that the user\'s
expectation is \'real time\' leads to the question as to whether or not an IMS
signalling path could not be used.
As mentioned earlier Chat rooms can be split into two categories, Public and
Private. However the deployment is very similar in both cases
An IMS signalling path may be used to carry the message to the Chat Server
which distributes the message in a similar way to that of Instant Messaging.
As with Instant Messaging, a majority of the message are short bursts of text,
however it is important to consider attachments and how they will be dealt
with. This is for further study.
# A.6 Email
This is similar to that of the MMS architecture. Email is not classed as real-
time and therefore there is no requirement for the IMS to establish a real
time connection between the device and the email server, irrespective of the
email service provider.
#