# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes in general terms the Link Access Procedures on
the Dm channel, LAPDm. The application of this protocol to other channel types
is for further study. Details are provided in 3GPP TS 44.006.
The purpose of LAPDm is to convey information between layer 3 entities across
the GSM PLMN radio interface (MS to network interface) using the Dm channel.
NOTE 1: The term Dm channel is used for convenience to designate the
collection of all the various signalling channels required in the GSM system.
See also 3GPP TS 44.003.
The definition of LAPDm is based on the principles and terminology of:
‑ ITU-T Recommendations X.200 and X.210: the reference model for Open Systems
Interconnection (OSI);
‑ ITU-T Recommendations Q.920 and Q.921: the specification of LAPD for the
user‑network interface in ISDN;
‑ ITU-T Recommendation X.25 LAPB: user‑network interface for packet mode
terminals; and
‑ ISO/IEC 3309 and ISO 4335: High‑level Data Link Control (HDLC) standards for
frame structure and elements of procedures.
LAPDm is a protocol that operates at the data link layer of the OSI
architecture. The relationship between the data link layer and other protocol
layers is defined below.
NOTE 2: The interface between the mobile station and external terminal
equipment/terminal adapters is defined in the Technical Specifications of the
GSM 07‑series.
NOTE 3: The physical layer on the radio interface is defined in 3GPP TS 44.004
and layer 3 is defined in 3GPP TS 24.007, 3GPP TS 44.018, 3GPP TS 24.010 and
3GPP TS 24.011. Reference should be made to these Technical Specifications for
the complete definitions of the protocols and procedures across the GSM PLMN
radio interface.
NOTE 4: The term \"data link layer\" is used in the main text of the present
document. However, mainly in figures and tables, the terms \"layer 2\" and
\"L2\" are used abbreviations. Furthermore, in accordance with 3GPP TS 24.007
and 3GPP TS 44.018 the term \"layer 3\" is used to indicate the layer above
the data link layer.
LAPDm is independent of the transmission bit rate. It requires physical
channels with characteristics as defined in 3GPP TS 44.003.
Clause 2 below describes basic concepts used in the present document and 3GPP
TS 44.006.
Clause 3 gives an overview description of LAPDm functions and procedures.
Clause 4 summarizes the services that the data link layer provides to layer 3
and the services that the data link layer requires from the physical layer.
Clause 5 provides an overview of the data link layer structure.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 44.001: \"Mobile Station - Base Station System (MS - BSS)
Interface General Aspects and Principles\".
[3] 3GPP TS 44.003: \"Mobile Station - Base Station System (MS - BSS)
Interface Channel Structures and Access Capabilities\".
[4] 3GPP TS 44.004: \"Layer 1; General requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 44.006: \"Mobile Station - Base Station System (MS - BSS)
interface Data Link (DL) layer specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General
aspects\".
[7] 3GPP TS 44.018: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Radio
Resource Control Protocol\".
[8] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3; Supplementary services
specification; General aspects\".
[9] 3GPP TS 24.011: \"Point-to-Point (PP) Short Message Service (SMS) support
on mobile radio interface\".
[10] (void).
[11] (void).
[12] (void).
[13] (void).
[14] (void).
[15] ITU-T Recommendation X.25: \"Interface between Data Terminal Equipment
(DTE) and Data Circuit‑terminating Equipment (DCE) for terminals operating in
the packet mode and connected to public data networks by dedicated circuit\".
[16] ITU-T Recommendation X.200: \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Basic Reference Model: The basic model\".
[17] ITU-T Recommendation X.210: \"Information technology - Open systems
interconnection - Basic Reference Model: Conventions for the definition of OSI
services\".
[18] ITU-T Recommendation Q.920: \"ISDN user-network interface data link layer
- General aspects\".
[19] ITU-T Recommendation Q.921: \"ISDN user-network interface - Data link
layer specification\".
[20] ISO/IEC 3309: \"Information technology - Telecommunications and
information exchange between systems - High-level Data Link Control (HDLC)
procedures - Frame structure\".
[21] ISO/IEC 4335: \"Information technology - Telecommunications and
information exchange between systems - High-level Data Link Control (HDLC)
procedures - Elements of procedures\".
# 2a Concepts and terminology
The general layering principles used in the present document and other
specifications in the 44 series are given in 3GPP TS 44.001.
The data link layer is the next to lowest layer of the OSI reference model.
The data link layer receives services from the physical layer and provides
services to layer 3.
The services provided by the data link layer are the combination of the
services and functions provided by both the data link layer and the physical
layer.
A data link layer Service Access Point (SAP) is the point at which the data
link layer provides services to layer 3. The Service Access Point is
identified by a Service Access Point Identifier (SAPI). One or more data link
connection endpoints can be associated with each data link layer SAP. See
figure 1. A data link connection endpoint is identified by a data link
connection endpoint identifier (as seen from layer 3) and by a Data Link
Connection Identifier DLCI (as seen from the data link layer).
SAPIs and DLCIs used by LAPDm are defined in subclause 5.2.
Figure 1: Entities, service access points and endpoints
Co‑operation between data link layer entities is governed by a peer‑to‑peer
protocol specific to the layer. For information exchange between two or more
layer 3 entities, an association must be established between the layer 3
entities in the data link layer using a data link layer protocol. This
association is called a data link connection. Data link connections are
provided by the data link layer between two or more SAPs (see figure 2).
Figure 2: Peer-to-peer relationship
Data link layer message units are conveyed between data link layer entities by
means of physical connection.
Layer 3 requests services from the data link layer via service primitives. The
same applies for the interaction between the data link layer and the physical
layer. The primitives represent, in an abstract way, the logical exchange of
information and control between the data link layer and its adjacent layers.
They do not specify or constrain implementations.
The primitives that are exchanged between the data link layer and adjacent
layers are of the following four types (see also figure 3).
NOTE: The same principle applies for data link layer-physical layer
interactions.
Figure 3: Primitive action sequence
The REQUEST primitive type is used when a higher layer is requesting a service
from the next lower layer.
The INDICATION primitive type is used by a layer providing a service to notify
the next higher layer of activities related to the primitive type REQUEST.
The RESPONSE primitive type is used by a layer to acknowledge receipt, from a
lower layer, of the primitive type INDICATION.
The CONFIRM primitive type is used by the layer providing the requested
service to confirm that the activity has been completed.
The precise specification of Layer-to-layer interactions is given in 3GPP TS
44.006.
Information between peer entities and between entities in adjacent layers
attached to the same SAP is transferred in two different types of message
units:
‑ message units of a peer‑to‑peer protocol; and
‑ message units that contain layer‑to‑layer information concerning status and
specialized service requests.
The message units of the layer 3 peer‑to‑peer protocol are carried by the data
link connection. The message units containing layer‑to‑layer information
concerning status and specialized service requests are never conveyed over a
data link connection or a physical connection.
The present document introduces (see also figure 4):
a) the peer‑to‑peer protocol for the transfer of information and control
between any pair of data link layer service access points;
b) the interactions between the data link layer and layer 3, and between the
data link layer and the physical layer.
Figure 4: Data link layer reference model
# 3 Overview description of LAPDm functions and procedures
## 3.1 General
The purpose of LAPDm is to convey information between layer 3 entities across
the GSM PLMN radio interface using the Dm channel. Specifically LAPDm will
support:
\- multiple layer 3 entities;
\- multiple physical layer entities;
\- broadcast control channel (BCCH) signalling;
\- paging channel (PCH) signalling;
\- access grant channel (AGCH) signalling;
\- dedicated control channel (DCCH) signalling.
NOTE 1: The term \"DCCH\" designates a number of control channels (SDCCH,
FACCH and SACCH) as defined in 3GPP TS 44.003.
NOTE 2: The random access channel (RACH) does not utilise LAPDm. However, for
the purpose of specification, the data link layer acts as a protocol interface
between layer 3 and the physical layer also for random access.
The frame structure of data link layer messages is defined in 3GPP TS 44.006.
The Dm channel between a network and a specific MS may be distorted on several
control channels, e.g. PCH, SDCCH and FACCH during a connection (See also 3GPP
TS 44.003). Selection and activation of these channels is performed by layer
3.
LAPDm includes functions for:
a) the provision of one or more data link connections on a Dm channel.
Discrimination between the data link connections is by means of a Data Link
Connection Identifier (DLCI);
b) allowing recognition of frame types;
c) allowing layer 3 message units to be passed transparently between layer 3
entities;
d) sequence control, to maintain the sequential order of frames across a data
link connections;
e) detection of format and operational errors on a data link;
f) notification to the layer 3 entity of unrecoverable errors;
NOTE 3: It is in the responsibility of layer 3 entity to recover from these
errors.
g) flow control; and
h) contention resolution when establishing a data link after an access request
has been made on the RACH.
Two types of operation of the data link layer are defined for layer 3
information transfer: unacknowledged operation and acknowledged (multiple
frame) operation. They may co‑exist on a Dm channel.
The BCCH and the (PCH + AGCH) will only support unacknowledged operation. The
SDCCH, SACCH and FACCH will support both types of operation.
## 3.2 Unacknowledged operation
In unacknowledged operation, layer 3 information is transmitted in Unnumbered
Information (UI) frames.
At the data link layer, the UI frames are not acknowledged. Flow control
mechanisms and error recovery mechanisms are not defined.
Applicability of unacknowledged operation to different types of control
channels is specified in subclause 6.1.
## 3.3 Acknowledged operation
In acknowledged operation, layer 3 information is transmitted in frames that
are acknowledged by the receiving data link layer.
Error recovery procedures based on retransmission of unacknowledged frames are
specified. In case of errors which cannot be corrected by the data link layer,
a report is issued to the layer 3 entity. Flow control procedures are also
defined.
Applicability of acknowledged operation to different types of control channels
is specified in subclause 6.1.
Only one form of acknowledged information transfer is defined, i.e. multiple
frame operation.
For multiple frame operation, layer 3 information is sent in numbered
Information (I) frames. In principle, a number of I frames may be outstanding
at the same time. However, for many applications (e.g. signalling) a window
size of 1 is required. Multiple frame operation is initiated by a multiple
frame establishment procedure using a Set Asynchronous Balanced Mode (SABM)
command.
If an access request has been made on the RACH, the establishment procedure
also contains functions for resolving any ambiguity that may arise as a result
of this access method.
## 3.4 Information transfer mode
### 3.4.1 Information transfer on the BCCH
The BCCH exists only in the network to MS direction and is used for
broadcasting radio sub‑system information to MSs. Only UI frames are sent on
the BCCH.
### 3.4.2 Information transfer on the PCH + AGCH
These channels exist only in the network to MS direction. On the PCH + AGCH
only unacknowledged operation is possible.
### 3.4.3 Information transfer on the DCCHs
On the DCCHs both unacknowledged operation and multiple frame operation are
possible (see subclause 6.1). The type of operation required at any time is
determined by layer 3.
## 3.5 Release of data links
Multiple frame operation may be released in the following ways:
\- normal release by exchange of commands/responses. This type of release is
initiated by layer 3;
\- local end release, i.e. without exchange of commands/responses, initiated
and controlled by layer 3;
\- abnormal local end release, i.e. without exchange of commands/responses,
commanded by layer 3.
The release mode is indicated by layer 3.
No release mechanism using exchange of commands/responses is defined for
unacknowledged operation.
# 4 Service characteristics
## 4.1 General
The data link layer provides services to layer 3 and utilizes the services
provided by the physical layer.
In the present document and 3GPP TS 44.006 the following general syntax is
used for describing primitives.
XX ‑ Generic Name ‑ Type (Parameters).
where XX designates the layer providing the services. In the present document
XX is DL and MDL for the data link layer and PH for the physical layer.
## 4.2 Services provided to layer 3
### 4.2.1 General
The specification of the interactions with layer 3 (primitives) provides a
description of the services that the data link layer, plus the physical layer,
offer to layer 3, as viewed from layer 3.
Two forms of information transfer services are associated with layer 3. The
first is based on unacknowledged information transfer at the data link layer
and the second service is based on acknowledged information transfer at the
data link layer using multiple frame operation. Different information transfer
services may co‑exist on the same data link subject to restrictions imposed by
the type of channel being used (see subclause 3.4).
In addition, the data link layer will pass primitives between the physical
layer and layer 3 for random access operation on the RACH.
### 4.2.2 Priority
The priority between data links shall be as follows:
On SDCCH:
Highest priority: SAPI = 0;
Lowest priority : SAPI = 3.
On SACCH:
The priority arrangement on the SACCH must ensure that if a SAPI = 3 frame is
awaiting transmission, two SAPI = 0 frames are not sent in consecutive SACCH
frames. An exception is when Repeated SACCH is supported, where a SACCH block
containing a SAPI = 0 frame may be repeated in the next SACCH period (see 3GPP
TS 44.006). In addition, for the mobile to network direction it must also be
ensured that any SAPI = 3 frame is followed by at least one SAPI = 0 frame.
### 4.2.3 Segmentation
For the acknowledged mode of information transfer the data link layer offers
segmentation at the transmitter of layer 3 message units if the message unit
is longer than the information field of the data layer frames. At the receiver
the segmented layer 3 message units are concatenated such that the integrity
of the layer 3 message unit is restored.
For unacknowledged operation the data link layer does not offer segmentation
services.
### 4.2.4 Unacknowledged information transfer service
NOTE: In this case the information transfer is not acknowledged at the data
link layer. Acknowledgement procedures may be provided at higher layers.
The characteristics of the unacknowledged information transfer service are
summarized in the following:
a) provision of a data link connection between layer 3 entities for
unacknowledged information transfer of layer 3 message units;
b) identification of data link connection endpoints to permit a layer 3 entity
to identify another layer 3 entity;
c) sending of frames in accordance with priority given to the message;
d) no verification of message arrival within the data link layer.
The primitives associated with the unacknowledged information transfer service
are:
DL‑UNIT DATA‑REQUEST/INDICATION
The DL‑UNIT DATA‑REQUEST primitive is used to request that a message unit be
sent using the procedures for unacknowledged information transfer service;
DL‑UNIT DATA‑INDICATION indicates the arrival of a message unit received by
means of unacknowledged information transfer. Parameters associated with these
primitives are the message unit, priority and the type of channel being used
(BCCH, PCH + AGCH or specific type of DCCH).
### 4.2.5 Acknowledged information transfer services
One mode of acknowledged operation is defined, i.e. multiple frame operation.
The characteristics of this service are summarized in the following:
a) provision of a data link connection between layer 3 entities for
acknowledged information transfer of layer 3 message units;
b) identification of data link connection endpoints to permit a layer 3 entity
to identify another layer 3 entity;
c) sequence integrity of data link layer message units in the absence of
machine malfunctions;
d) notification to the peer entity in the case of errors, for example, loss of
sequence;
e) notification to the layer 3 entity of unrecoverable errors detected by the
data link layer;
f) flow control;
g) sending of frames in accordance with the indicated SAPI value (see also
subclause 4.2.2);
h) segmentation and concatenation control functions;
i) suspension of the service during change of dedicated channels and
resumption of service on the new channel without message loss (SAPI = 0 only);
duplication of messages which may occur are treated on layer 3 (SAPI = 0
only).
j) prioritization of messages by a layer 3 entity with preemption of low
priority messages by high priority messages (SAPI = 0 only).
The following list gives an overview of the primitives associated with the
multiple frame acknowledged information transfer services (for detailed
specification, see 3GPP TS 44.006):
a) Data transfer using I frames:
DL‑DATA‑REQUEST/INDICATION
The DL‑DATA‑REQUEST primitive is used to request that a message unit be sent
using the procedures for multiframe acknowledged information transfer. The
DL‑DATA‑ INDICATION primitive indicates the arrival of a message unit received
by means of acknowledged information transfer. The parameters associated with
these primitives are the message unit, the type of channel being used and, for
a DL‑DATA‑REQUEST primitive, the message priority.
b) Establishment of multiple frame operation using the SABM command:
DL‑ESTABLISH‑REQUEST/INDICATION/CONFIRM
These primitives are used to request, indicate and confirm the establishment
of multiple frame operation between two data link layer entities. Possible
parameters are the message unit, the establish mode and the type of channel
being used.
c) Suspension of multiple frame operation:
DL‑SUSPEND‑REQUEST/CONFIRM
These primitives are used in a MS to request and confirm the suspension of
multiple frame operation while changing a dedicated channel. A possible
parameter is the type of channel to be affected.
d) Resumption of multiple frame operation:
DL‑RESUME‑REQUEST/CONFIRM
These primitives are used in a MS to request and confirm the resumption of
multiple frame operation after it has been suspended (see paragraph c) above).
Possible parameters are the message unit and the type of channel to be
affected.
e) Restoration of multiple frame operation:
DL‑RECONNECT‑REQUEST/CONFIRM
These primitives are used in a MS to request and confirm the restoration of
multiple frame operation on the old channel after failure of the channel
change. Possible parameters are the message unit and the type of channel to be
affected.
f) Termination of multiple frame operation:
DL‑RELEASE‑REQUEST/INDICATION/CONFIRM
These primitives are used to request, indicate and confirm an attempt to
terminate multiple frame operation between two data link layer entities or an
attempt to perform local end release. The parameters associated with this
primitive are the type of channel and the release mode.
### 4.2.6 Random access procedure
The primitives associated with random access are:
DL‑RANDOM ACCESS‑REQUEST/INDICATION/CONFIRM
The DL‑RANDOM ACCESS‑REQUEST primitive is used in the MS to request the
transmission of a random access burst. The DL‑ RANDOM ACCESS‑CONFIRM primitive
is used to notify layer 3 that the random access burst has been sent. The
DL‑RANDOM ACCESS‑INDICATION primitive is used in the network to indicate the
arrival of a random access burst. The parameter associated with the REQUEST
primitives is the random access message unit. The parameters associated with
the INDICATION primitive are the random access message unit and the time slot
in which the random access burst was received. The parameter associated with
the CONFIRM primitive is a message unit containing the number of the time slot
in which the random access burst was sent.
## 4.3 Services required from the physical layer
The services provided by the physical layer are described in detail in 3GPP TS
44.004. They are summarized in the following:
a) physical layer connection for transparent transmission of frames. The bits
of a frame are to be delivered to the peer data link entity in the same order
in which they were submitted to the physical layer by the sender;
b) indication of the physical status of the Dm channel;
c) transmission of data link layer message units in the same order as they
were issued by the data link layer;
d) provision of frame synchronization;
e) provision of error protection to ensure a low residual bit error rate at
the data link layer;
f) transmission (in the MS) and reception (in the network) of random access
bursts.
The primitives between the data link layer and the physical layer are:
a) Data transfer:
PH‑DATA‑REQUEST/INDICATION
These primitives are used to request that a message unit be sent and to
indicate the arrival of message unit. Parameters associated with these
primitives are the data link layer message unit, the priority and the type of
channel being used.
b) Random access:
PH‑RANDOM ACCESS‑REQUEST/INDICATION/CONFIRM
The REQUEST primitive is used to request (in the MS) that a random access
frame be sent and the INDICATION primitive is used to indicate (in the
network) the arrival of a random access frame. A parameter associated with
these primitives is the random access message unit. The CONFIRM primitive is
used (in the MS) to confirm in which time slot the random access burst was
sent.
c) Connection establishment:
PH‑CONNECT‑INDICATION
This primitive is used to indicate that a specific physical resource has been
established on the physical layer. The parameter associated with this
primitive is the type of channel.
NOTE: Activation of a physical resource is usually initiated by the layer 3
entity without involving data link layer entities.
d) Transmission synchronization:
PH‑READY‑TO‑SEND‑INDICATION
This primitive is used to enable the data link layer to synchronize to the
next instant of physical transmission. The parameter associated with this
primitive is the type of channel.
PH‑EMPTY‑FRAME‑REQUEST
This primitive is used by the data link layer instead of the PH‑DATA‑REQUEST
primitive when no frame has to be sent after receiving the PH‑READY‑TO‑SEND
indication. The parameter associated with this primitive is the type of
channel.
## 4.4 Administrative services
### 4.4.1 General description of administrative services
The data link layer entity supports several internal functions of the MS or
the network not requiring layer 3 peer‑to‑peer information transfer. The
functions provided by the data link layer are:
\- error reporting between the data link layer and the layer 3 entity;
\- abnormal release of the data link layer in case of protocol or other
failures from which the data link layer cannot recover on its own.
The administrative functions and the interactions between the data link layer
and the layer 3 entities are described in terms of service primitives.
### 4.4.2 Definition of primitives for administrative services
The primitives between the layer 3 entity and the data link layer for
supporting administrative services are:
a) Error handling:
MDL‑ERROR‑INDICATION
This primitive is used by the data link layer to indicate that there is an
error in the data link layer procedures that cannot be resolved by normal
exception handling procedures. Parameters associated with this primitive are
the reason for error reporting and the type of channel.
b) Release:
MDL‑RELEASE‑REQUEST
This primitive is used by the layer 3 entity to initiate abnormal local end
release of a data link. Parameters associated with this primitive are
indications of which data links are to be released and the reason for abnormal
release.
# 5 Overview of data link layer structure
## 5.1 Functional composition
Figure 5 is an example of a functional block diagram of the data link layer in
the MS. In the example the data link connection for all physical channels
terminates at the SAP identified by SAPI = 0 and the data link connection for
a SACCH when associated with a TCH, or a SDCCH otherwise, terminates at the
SAP identified by SAPI = 3. Other arrangements are possible depending on the
capabilities of the MS.
The network will contain a similar arrangement with one (PCH + AGCH), SDCCH,
SACCH, as required, for each active MS.
Figure 5 illustrates three procedural types: the data link procedure, the data
link distribution procedure and the random access procedure.
## 5.2 Identification of data link end points
The data link endpoints are identified by a Data Link Connection Identifier
(DLCI).
The DLCI consists of two elements:
\- the Service Access Point Identifier (SAPI) which is carried in the address
field of each frame;
\- the type of control channel on which the data link connection is or is to
be established. This information is not carried in frames between data link
layer peer entities but is managed locally in each end system and is carried
in primitives between the layers.
When a layer 3 message unit is to be sent, layer 3 will select the appropriate
SAP and data link connection end point. Layer 3 will indicate to the data link
layer which data link connection end point has been chosen.
When receiving a frame containing a layer 3 message unit, the data link layer
will receive from the physical layer an indication concerning the type of
channel on which the frame was received. This information together with the
SAPI contained in the frame enables the data link layer to deliver the layer 3
message unit to the required data link connection end point of the indicated
SAP.
The SAP takes a specific value for each of the following functions carried on
the Dm channel:
\- call control signalling, mobility management signalling, supplementary
services signalling and radio resource management signalling information as
defined in 3GPP TS 44.018 and 3GPP TS 24.010: SAPI = 0;
\- short message services as defined in 3GPP TS 24.011: SAPI = 3.
Other functions requiring specific SAPI values may be defined in the future.
## 5.3 Data link procedure
There is at most one instance of the data link layer procedure for each SAPI
on each type of channel supported on that SAPI.
For some combinations of SAPI and type of channel only a subset (e.g.
unacknowledged operation) of the overall data link layer procedure is
required.
The procedure analyses the control field and the length indicator field of the
received frame (see 3GPP TS 44.006) and provides appropriate peer‑to‑peer
responses and layer‑to‑layer indications. In addition, it analyses the data
link layer service primitives and transmits the appropriate peer‑to‑peer
commands and responses.
The procedure also performs segmentation and concatenation of layer 3 message
units.
## 5.4 Data link distribution procedure
This procedure is only required if there are more than one SAPI supported on a
channel associated with a specific MS.
The procedure analyses the address field of a received frame and the type of
physical channel contained in the primitive received from the physical layer.
It then distributes the frames to the appropriate data link procedure block.
On frame transmission, the procedure delivers the frames to the required
channel after layer 3 has established the respective association between the
channel and its physical parameters. The procedure also provides for
resolution of conflicts between the various data link procedure blocks on the
same physical channel. The conflict resolution is based on the SAPI and the
priority requested by layer 3 (see also note to subclause 4.2.2).
## 5.5 Random access procedures
This procedure is used for data links on the random access channel (RACH). The
procedure in the MS formats the random access frames and initiates
transmission of them. The procedure in the network receives the random access
frames and provides the appropriate indication to layer 3.
Figure 5: Example of the data link layer configuration in the MS
# 6 Specific requirements
## 6.1 Mode of operation and allowed SAPIs
The various types of channels shall support SAPIs and modes of operation as
follows.
* * *
Type of channel SAPI = 0 SAPI = 3 BCCH Unacknowledged Not supported CCCH
Unacknowledged Not supported SDCCH Unacknowledged and acknowledged
Acknowledged SACCH associated with SDCCH Unacknowledged Not Supported SACCH
associated with TCH Unacknowledged Unacknowledged and Acknowledged FACCH
Unacknowledged and acknowledged Not supported
* * *
## 6.2 Acknowledged mode of operation
### 6.2.1 Window size
The window size, k (see 3GPP TS 44.006), shall be:
\- for SAPI = 0, k = 1;
\- for SAPI = 3, k = 1.
Other SAPIs, for further study.
### 6.2.2 Processing capacity
The processing capacity of the MS and the network shall be big enough to avoid
that the data link layer entities enter the receiver busy state for SAPI = 0.
#