# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Broadcast Call Control (BCC) protocol used
by the Voice Broadcast Call Service (VBCS) on the radio interface.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] Void.
[1a] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 42.069: \"Voice Broadcast Service (VBS); Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.067: \"enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service
(eMLPP); Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 43.069: \"Voice Broadcast Call Service (VBCS); Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 44.006: \"Mobile Station ‑ Base Station System (MS ‑ BSS)
interface; Data Link (DL) layer specification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General
aspects\".
[8] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile Radio Interface Layer 3 specification; Core
Network Protocols; Stage 3\".
[9] 3GPP TS 44.018: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Radio
Resource Control Protocol\".
[10] 3GPP TS 44.068: \"Group Call Control (GCC) protocol\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions defined in
3GPP TS 42.069 and the following apply:
**Attachment of the user connection:** See 3GPP TS 24.008, subclause 5.2.
**Broadcast call channel:** downlink channel to be allocated in each cell of
the group call area for a particular broadcast call. All MSs of the listening
service subscribers in one cell shall listen to the common downlink.
**Broadcast call:** is used in the same sense as \"voice broadcast call\".
**Calling user:** BCC entity in the Mobile Station (MS) initiating or having
initiated a broadcast call.
**Clearing the context related to the broadcast call establishment:** all
running BCC timers in the relevant BCC entity are stopped, all attributes in
the relevant BCC entity are deleted.
**Downlink:** network to MS direction.
**Group receive mode: S** ee 3GPP TS 44.018.
**Originating mobile station:** MS initiating or having initiated the
broadcast call.
**Uplink:** Mobile station to network direction.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviation defined in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1a] and the following applies:
BCC Broadcast Call Control
# 4 Applicability
Support of the broadcast call protocol is optional in the MS and in the
network.
# 5 Main concepts
The present document describes the broadcast call control (BCC) protocol,
which is one of the protocols of the Connection Management (CM) sublayer (see
3GPP TS 24.007).
There is in general more than one MS engaged in a broadcast call.
Consequently, there is in general more than one MS with a BCC entity engaged
in the same broadcast call, and there is one BCC entity in the network engaged
in that broadcast call.
Under which conditions a BCC message is passed from lower (sub‑)layers to the
BCC entity is defined in the specifications of the sub‑layers.
The MS shall ignore BCC messages that it receives which were sent in
unacknowledged mode and which explicitly specify as destination a mobile
identity which is not a mobile identity of the MS.
Higher layers and the MM sub‑layer decide when to accept parallel BCC
transactions and when/whether to accept BCC transactions in parallel to other
CM transactions.
The broadcast call may be initiated by a mobile user or by a dispatcher.
Specification of a protocol for dispatchers is out of the scope of the present
document. Hence, in the scope of the present document, there are:
‑ one BCC entity in the network; and
‑ one or more than one BCC entities in different MSs;
engaged in a broadcast call, and one ore none of the MSs is the originator of
the broadcast call (called the originating MS in the present document).
NOTE: Whereas for the Group Call Control (GCC) protocol (see 3GPP TS 44.068),
in certain situations, the GCC entity in a MS assumes to be the originator of
a broadcast call without being the originator, this is not the case for the
BCC protocol.
The originator of the BCC transaction chooses the Transaction Identifier (TI).
A MS not assuming to be the originator of the transaction will chose the
transaction identifier received from the network, setting the TI flag to 1+x
mod 2 where x is the received TI flag.
The present document describes the broadcast call control protocol only with
regard to two peer entities, one in a MS, the other one in the network. The
call control entities are described as communicating finite state machines
which exchange messages across the radio interface and communicate internally
with other protocol (sub)layers. In particular, the BCC protocol uses the MM
and RR sublayer specified in 3GPP TS 24.008 and 3GPP TS 44.018. The BCC entity
in a MS that is not the originator of the broadcast call shall not send
messages to its peer entity. This description in only normative as far as the
consequential externally observable behaviour is concerned. For simplicity,
instead of using the terms \"BCC entity in the MS\" and \"BCC entity in the
network\", the present document often uses the terms \"MS\" and \"network\" if
no confusion may arise.
Certain sequences of actions of the two peer entities compose \"elementary
procedures\" which are used as a basis for the description in the present
document. These elementary procedures are defined in clause 6.
The network should apply supervisory functions to verify that the BCC
procedures are progressing and if not, take appropriate means to resolve the
problems. This, however, is out of the scope of the present document.
# 6 Elementary procedures for Broadcast Call Control
## 6.1 Overview
### 6.1.1 General
The elementary procedures may be broadcasted into the following classes:
‑ broadcast call establishment procedures;
‑ broadcast call termination procedures;
‑ broadcast call information phase procedures;
‑ miscellaneous procedures.
### 6.1.2 Broadcast call control states
#### 6.1.2.1 Broadcast call control states at the MS side of the interface
The BCC entity of the MS is described as an extended finite state machine. It
performs transitions between states. It has certain parameters and attributes,
e.g. configuration parameters and behaviour parameters, which it sets and
changes based on interaction with higher and lower (sub‑)layers and on message
exchange with its peer entity. If a configuration parameter is set to a
certain value, the MS shall also adapt the configuration accordingly.
Behaviour parameters decide on (part of) the behaviour of the BCC entity. When
the BCC entity in the MS receives a message, it shall first analyse whether it
shall ignore the message, see clauses 5 and 7.
##### 6.1.2.1.1 Attributes and Parameters of BCC in the MS
For the following behaviour parameters, the description is informative.
* * *
Parameter Description ORIG Depending on the context, the MS assumes to be the
originator of the call (ORIG=T) or not to be the originator of the call
(ORIG=F). COMM Depending on the context, the MS assumes that communication
with its peer entity is enabled in both directions (COMM = T) or not (COMM =
F).
* * *
For the following configuration parameters the MS shall adapt its
configuration according to the parameter value and parameter definition.
+-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Definition | +-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+ | D‑ATT | D‑ATT = T means that the MS attaches the user | | | connection for the broadcast call in the downlink. | | | | | | D‑ATT = F means that the MS does not attach the user | | | connection for the broadcast call in the downlink. | +-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+ | U‑ATT | U‑ATT = T means that the MS attaches the user | | | connection for the broadcast call in the uplink. | | | | | | U‑ATT = F means that the MS does not attach the user | | | connection for the broadcast call in the uplink. | +-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+
##### 6.1.2.1.2 NULL (U0)
No broadcast call exists for the BCC entity. When entering the state,
parameters shall be set to the following values, and configuration shall be
adapted to the new values of configuration parameters: ORIG = F, COMM = F,
D‑ATT = F, U‑ATT = F.
##### 6.1.2.1.3 MM CONNECTION PENDING (U0.p)
The BCC entity has requested the explicit establishment of an MM connection.
When entering the state, parameters shall be set to the following values, and
configuration shall be adapted to the new values of configuration parameters:
ORIG = T, COMM = F, D‑ATT = F, U‑ATT = F.
##### 6.1.2.1.4 BROADCAST CALL INITIATED (U1)
The BCC entity has requested the peer entity in the network to establish a
broadcast call. When entering the state, parameters shall be set to the
following values, and configuration shall be adapted to the new values of
configuration parameters: ORIG = T, COMM = T, D‑ATT = F, U‑ATT = F.
##### 6.1.2.1.5 BROADCAST CALL ACTIVE (U2)
The broadcast call is established at least in one cell. When entering the
state, parameters shall be set to the following values, and configuration
shall be adapted to the new values of configuration parameters: ORIG = T, COMM
= T, D‑ATT = T, U‑ATT = T.
##### 6.1.2.1.6 BROADCAST CALL PRESENT (U3)
The MS has received a notification about an ongoing broadcast call. Higher
layers are requested to accept or reject the call. When entering the state,
parameters shall be set to the following values, and configuration shall be
adapted to the new values of configuration parameters: ORIG = F, COMM = F,
D‑ATT = F, U‑ATT = F.
##### 6.1.2.1.7 BROADCAST CALL CONNECTION REQUESTED (U4)
The MS has received a notification about an ongoing broadcast call. Higher
layers have decided to accept the call. When entering the state, parameters
shall be set to the following values, and configuration shall be adapted to
the new values of configuration parameters: ORIG = F, COMM = F, D‑ATT = F,
U‑ATT = F.
##### 6.1.2.1.8 TERMINATION REQUESTED (U5)
The MS which is the originator of the broadcast call has been in state U1 or
U2 and has sent a TERMINATION REQUEST message to the network. When entering
the state, parameters shall be set to the following values, and configuration
shall be adapted to the new values of configuration parameters: ORIG = T, COMM
= T, D‑ATT = T, U‑ATT = T.
##### 6.1.2.1.9 RECEIVE MODE ACTIVE (U6)
The BCC entity in the MS in state U4, BROADCAST call connection requested, has
got an indication from lower (sub‑)layers that RR has entered group receive
mode (see 3GPP TS 44.018). When entering the state, parameters shall be set to
the following values, and configuration shall be adapted to the new values of
configuration parameters: ORIG = F, COMM = F, D‑ATT = T, U‑ATT = F.
##### 6.1.2.1.10 BCC TIMERS IN THE MS
Table 6.1 specifies the timers used in BCC. The denotation of columns is
defined as follows:
timer ::= name of the timer;
set ::= under which conditions the timer is set (i.e., started);
stopped ::= under which conditions the timer is stopped;
running in state(s) ::= in which state(s) the timer may be running;
action at expiry ::= which actions the BCC entity shall perform at expiry;
value ::= the duration between setting the timer and expiry of the timer
(\"s\" denotes
\"second(s)\" \"xx ‑ yy\" means that any value between xx and yy is
permitted).
Table 6.1: Specification of timers used in BCC
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---------+ | timer | set | stopped | running | action | value | | | | | in | at | | | | | | state(s) | expiry | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---------+ | T~no\ | in state | when | in U6, | see | 3 s | | channel~ | U6 on | leaving | d | s | | | | receipt | U6 or | epending | ubclause | | | | of an | when | on | 6.3.1 | | | | in | r | further | | | | | dication | eceiving | co | | | | | from | in U6 an | nditions | | | | | lower | in | | | | | | (sub | dication | | | | | | ‑)layers | from | | | | | | that no | lower | | | | | | channel | (sub | | | | | | is | ‑)layers | | | | | | c | that a | | | | | | urrently | channel | | | | | | a | is | | | | | | vailable | a | | | | | | | vailable | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---------+ | T | when | when | U0.p, U1 | see | 7 s | | ~MM‑est~ | entering | leaving | | s | | | | U0.p | U0.p or | | ubclause | | | | using | U1 | | 6.2.1 | | | | the | | | | | | | set‑up | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | rocedure | | | | | | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | entering | | | | | | | U1 using | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | mmediate | | | | | | | set‑up | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | rocedure | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---------+ | T~term~ | when | when | U5 | abort | 10 s | | | sending | r | | b | | | | a | eceiving | | roadcast | | | | TER | a | | call | | | | MINATION | TER | | | | | | REQUEST | MINATION | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | TER | | | | | | | MINATION | | | | | | | REJECT | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---------+ | T~co | when | when | U4 | abort | 10‑30 s | | nn\ req~ | entering | leaving | | b | | | | state U4 | state U4 | | roadcast | | | | | | | call | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---------+
##### 6.1.2.1.11 CONSISTENCY OF PARAMETERS AND STATES
The MS shall consider the following parameter values as inconsistent with the
state or sub‑state:
ORIG = T is inconsistent with states U3, U4, and U6.
COMM = T is inconsistent with states U0, U3, U4, and U6.
All other values of parameters ORIG, COMM, D‑ATT, and U‑ATT shall not be
considered by the MS as inconsistent with a state.
#### 6.1.2.2 BROADCAST CALL CONTROL STATES AT THE NETWORK SIDE OF THE
INTERFACE
##### 6.1.2.2.1 NULL (State N0)
No broadcast call exists for the BCC entity.
##### 6.1.2.2.2 BROADCAST CALL INITIATED (N1)
The BCC entity has received the indication that a peer entity in a MS wants to
establish a broadcast call for a certain broadcast identity.
##### 6.1.2.2.3 BROADCAST CALL ACTIVE (N2)
The broadcast call is established in at least one cell; there may be a MS
which has seized the uplink or not; there may be talking dispatchers or not.
##### 6.1.2.2.4 BROADCAST CALL ESTABLISHMENT PROCEEDING (N3)
The BCC entity wants to accept the broadcast call, has initiated establishment
of corresponding broadcast call channels, and, if there is a calling user. has
sent a CONNECT message to the calling user.
##### 6.1.2.2.5 TERMINATION REQUESTED (N4)
The BCC entity has asked lower sub‑layers to terminate the broadcast call in
all cells and waits for a confirmation that the broadcast call has been
terminated in all cells.
## 6.2 Procedures for establishment of a broadcast call
### 6.2.1 Activation of a broadcast call by the network
The BCC entity in the network may initiate the activation of a broadcast call
with a certain broadcast call reference and priority in a list of cells by
asking lower layers to establish the broadcast call with that broadcast call
reference and priority in those cells. It then waits until it is informed by
lower (sub‑)layers that resource activation was sufficiently successful, and
enters state N2, BC ACTIVE.
### 6.2.2 Mobile originated establishment
Higher layers in the MS may ask the BCC entity in state U0, NULL, to establish
a broadcast call, either using the immediate set‑up procedure or using the
set‑up procedure. The request contains a group‑id and may contain a priority
indication.
On request of higher layers to establish a broadcast call using the set‑up
procedure, the BCC entity of the MS builds an appropriate SETUP message and
asks lower (sub‑)layers to establish an MM connection explicitly (i.e. by use
of a CM SERVICE REQUEST message) and to transmit the SETUP message. It then
enters state U0.p, MM CONNECTION PENDING. In state U0.p, when informed by
lower sub‑layers that an MM connection has been established, the BCC entity in
the MS shall stop timer TMM‑est and enter state U1, BC INITIATED.
On request of higher layers to establish a broadcast call using the immediate
set‑up procedure, the BCC entity of the MS builds an appropriate IMMEDIATE
SETUP message and asks lower (sub‑)layers to establish an MM connection
implicitly (see 3GPP TS 24.008) and to transmit the IMMEDIATE SETUP message.
It sets timer TMM‑est and then enters state U1, BC INITIATED.
The network BCC entity in state NULL may receive a set‑up message from its
peer entity in the originating MS. This set‑up message is either a SETUP
message or an IMMEDIATE SETUP message. The network enters state N1, BC
INITIATED.
In state N1, the network decides whether:
a) the establishment is accepted; or
b) the establishment rejected.
In case a), the BCC entity in the network considers the peer entity in the MS
having sent the set‑up message to be the calling user and asks lower layers to
activate the appropriate resources. It then:
1) waits until it is informed by lower (sub‑)layers that resource activation
was sufficiently successful, then sends a CONNECT message to the calling user,
and enters state N2, BC ACTIVE; or
2) sends a CONNECT message to the calling user and enters N3, BC ESTABLISHMENT
PROCEEDING. In state N3, the BCC entity is informed by lower layers whenever
the status of resources for the broadcast call is changed. When informed that
activation of resources was sufficiently successful, the BCC entity in the
network enters state N2, ACTIVE.
The CONNECT message specifies the broadcast call reference of the broadcast
call and indicates that the MS is the originator of the broadcast call.
In case b), the further proceeding is as defined in subclause 6.2.2.1.
In state U0.p or U1, the BCC entity in the MS shall, on receipt of a CONNECT
message, establish the conditions defined for state U2, ACTIVE and the
suitable sub‑state (see subclause 6.1.2.1), stop timer T~MM‑est~ (if running)
and enter state U2, ACTIVE. If the immediate set‑up procedure has been used,
the BCC entity in the MS shall inform lower sub‑layers that the MM connection
has been implicitly established.
#### 6.2.2.1 Termination during mobile originated establishment
At any time during the mobile originated establishment of a broadcast call,
the network may decide to terminate the connection between the two peer
entities in the network and MS. In this case the network sends a TERMINATION
message to the MS specifying the appropriate cause; it may ask lower
(sub‑)layers to release associated resources. The further actions are
specified in subclause 6.4.
During mobile originated establishment of a broadcast call, the MS may abort
the broadcast call, see subclause 6.4.
#### 6.2.2.2 Abnormal cases
At expiry of T~MM‑est~, or radio link failure (see 3GPP TS 44.018), the BCC
entity in the MS requests lower sub‑layers to abort the MM connection
establishment and returns to state U0, NULL(this includes clearing of the
context related to the broadcast call establishment).
On receipt of an indication of lower sub‑layers that the MM connection
establishment was unsuccessful, the BCC entity in the MS returns to state U0,
NULL (this includes clearing of the context related to the broadcast call
establishment).
### 6.2.3 Mobile terminating broadcast call establishment in the MS
The BCC entity in the MS, being in state U0, NULL, may receive an indication
of lower layers that a broadcast call exists. This indication specifies the
broadcast‑id and a priority. It shall then inform higher layers and enter
state U3, BC present. This state may be supervised by a timer at expiry of
which the BCC entity clears the context and returns to state U0, NULL.
In state U3, on request of higher layers to join the broadcast call, the BCC
entity in the MS stops any running timer, asks lower sub‑layers to join the
broadcast call, starts timer T~conn\ req~, and enters state U4, BC CONNECTION
REQUESTED.
In state U4, on indication of lower sub‑layers that the broadcast call has
been joint (this indication specifies the mode of the RR connection), the BCC
entity in the MS stops any running timer, enters state U6, RECEIVE MODE
ACTIVE, establishes the appropriate configurations (see subclause 6.1) and
informs higher layers (this includes information about the sub‑state).
## 6.3 Procedures during the active state and receive mode active state of a
broadcast call
### 6.3.1 Mobile station procedures in the active state
In the active state, the BCC entity in the MS performs, on receipt of messages
from its peer entity, on request of higher layers, and on indication of lower
sub‑layers, actions as defined below.
On request of higher layers, the MS initiates abort or termination of the
broadcast call, see subclause 6.4.
If the network initiates broadcast call abortion or termination, the MS reacts
as specified in subclause 6.4.
On radio link failure, the MS aborts the broadcast call, see subclause 6.4.
### 6.3.2 Network procedures in the active state
In the active state the BCC entity in the network performs supervisory
functions, maintenance functions and resource modifications which are not
further specified. (This includes through‑connection of the application data
stream(s), which is defined in 3GPP TS 43.069).
The network may initiate abort or termination of the broadcast call, see
subclause 6.4.
If the MS initiates broadcast call abortion or termination, the network reacts
as specified in subclause 6.4.
The network may send a SET PARAMETER message to the MS in order to ask the MS
to set parameters to certain values and to take consequential actions.
### 6.3.3 Mobile station procedures in the RECEIVE MODE ACTIVE state
In state U6, RECEIVE MODE ACTIVE, the BCC entity in the MS performs, on
receipt of messages from its peer entity, on request of higher layers, and on
indication of lower sub‑layers, actions as defined below.
On request of higher layers, the MS initiates abort of the broadcast call, see
subclause 6.4.
If the network initiates broadcast call abortion or termination, the MS reacts
as specified in subclause 6.4.
Upon indication from lower layers that no channel is available, the BCC entity
in the MS informs higher layers and starts timer T~no\ channel~. Then:
\- if T~no\ channel~ expires, the BCC entity in the MS informs higher layers,
asks lower sub‑layers to abort resources and enters the idle state;
\- upon indication from lower layers that a channel is available, the BCC
entity in the MS informs higher layers and stops timer T~no\ channel~.
## 6.4 Procedures for release, abortion, and termination of a broadcast call
### 6.4.1 Termination procedure
The MS being the originator of the broadcast call (ORIG = T) shall, on request
of higher layers, initiate the termination procedure by sending a TERMINATION
REQUEST message to its peer entity in the network and setting timer T~term~.
The network either accepts the termination by sending a TERMINATION or rejects
termination by sending a TERMINATION REJECT. These messages indicate an
appropriate cause.
In state U5, on receipt of a TERMINATION REJECT message, the BCC entity in the
MS informs higher layers and stops T~term~.
In state U5, on Tterm expiry, the BCC entity in the MS informs higher layers,
asks lower sub‑layers to abort the broadcast call, clears the context related
to the broadcast call, and returns to state U0, NULL.
In any state, on receipt of a TERMINATION message, the BCC entity in the MS
informs higher layers, asks lower sub‑layers to release the broadcast call,
clears the context related to the broadcast call, and returns to state U0,
NULL.
At any time during a broadcast call, the network may decide to terminate the
connection between the two peer entities in the network and MS. In this case
the network sends a TERMINATION message to the MS specifying the appropriate
cause; it may ask lower (sub‑)layers to release associated resources. The
further actions are specified above in this subclause 6.4.
### 6.4.2 Abort and release procedures
The network may ask lower sub‑layers to abort or release the broadcast call.
The MS will detect abort of the broadcast call by detecting the abort of RR
resources, and a broadcast call release by detecting the release of RR
resources. The BCC entity in the MS shall then inform higher layers, ask lower
sub‑layers to abort the broadcast call, clear the context related to the
broadcast call, and return to state U0, NULL.
The MS shall, on request of higher layers, initiate the release procedure by
asking lower sub‑layers to release the broadcast call, clearing the context
related to the broadcast call, and returning to state U0, NULL.
The BCC entity in the MS shall when required by the BCC protocol, abort the
broadcast call by requesting lower layers to abort the broadcast call,
informing higher layers, clearing the context related to the broadcast call,
and returning to state U0, NULL.
## 6.5 Miscellaneous procedures
### 6.5.1 Status procedures
#### 6.5.1.1 Get status procedure
Upon receipt of a GET STATUS message, the MS shall:
‑ if COMM = T, respond with a STATUS message, reporting the current call
state, the current values of configuration and behaviour parameters and cause
value # 30 \"Response to GET STATUS\";
‑ if COMM = F, ignore the message.
#### 6.5.1.2 Set parameter procedure
Upon receipt of a SET PARAMETER message the MS shall set the parameters to the
indicated values and the configuration shall be adapted to the new values of
configuration parameters, if they are consistent with the current BCC state
and sub‑state (see subclause 6.1.2). If they are not:
‑ if COMM, before the message was received, is equal to T, it shall send a
STATUS message specifying error cause \"message incompatible with protocol
state\", the state and, if applicable, sub‑state, and the _state attributes_
IE;
‑ if COMM, before the message was received, is equal to F, it shall ignore the
message.
# 7 Handling of unknown, unforeseen, and erroneous protocol data
## 7.1 General
This subclause specifies procedures for the handling of unknown, unforeseen,
and erroneous protocol data by the receiving BCC protocol entity in the MS.
These procedures are called \"error handling procedures\", but in addition to
providing recovery mechanisms for error situations they define a compatibility
mechanism for future extensions of the protocols. Error handling procedures in
the network are for further study.
Subclauses 7.1 to 7.8 shall be applied in order of precedence.
Most error handling procedures are mandatory for the MS.
In this clause the following terminology is used:
‑ an IE is defined to be syntactically incorrect in a message if it contains
at least one value defined as \"reserved\" in clause 9, or if its value part
violates rules of clause 9. However it is not a syntactical error that a TLV
encoded IE specifies in its length indicator a greater length than defined in
clause 9;
‑ a message is defined to have semantically incorrect contents if it contains
information which, possibly dependant on the state of the receiver, is in
contradiction to the resources of the receiver and/or to the procedural part
(i.e. clauses 6 and 7) of the present document.
## 7.2 Message too short
When a message is received that is too short to contain a complete message
type information element, that message shall be ignored, cf. 3GPP TS 24.007.
## 7.3 Unknown or unforeseen transaction identifier
If COMM = T, the MS shall answer to a message received with TI value \"111\"
by sending a STATUS message with same TI value, cause \"invalid transaction
identifier value\", and including, if possible, as diagnostics the complete
message received (this may not be possible, e.g., due to length restrictions).
If COMM = F, the MS shall ignore a message received with TI value \"111\".
For a broadcast call control message received with TI different from \"111\",
the following procedures shall apply.
Whenever a message is received specifying a transaction identifier which is
not recognized as relating to an active transaction, if COMM = F, the MS shall
ignore the message; if COMM = T, the MS shall send a STATUS message with cause
#81 \"invalid transaction identifier value\" using the received transaction
identifier value and including, if possible, as diagnostics the complete
message received (this may not be possible, e.g., due to length restrictions).
## 7.4 Unknown or unforeseen message type
If the protocol entity in the MS receives a message with message type not
defined for the PD or not implemented by the receiver, it shall ignore the
message except for the fact that, if COMM = T, it shall return a STATUS
message with cause \"message type non‑existent or not implemented\" and
including as diagnostics the message type of the message received.
NOTE: A message type not defined for the PD in the given direction is regarded
by the receiver as a message type not defined for the PD, see 3GPP TS 24.007.
If the protocol entity in the MS receives a message not compatible with the
protocol state, the MS shall ignore the message except for the fact that, if
COMM = T, it returns a STATUS message with cause \"message type not compatible
with protocol state\" and including as diagnostics the message type of the
message received.
## 7.5 Non‑semantical mandatory information element errors
When on receipt of a message:
‑ an \"imperative message part\" error; or
‑ a \"missing mandatory IE\" error,
is diagnosed or when a message containing
‑ a syntactically incorrect mandatory IE; or
‑ an IE unknown in the message, but encoded as \"comprehension required\" (see
3GPP TS 24.008, subclause 10.5); or
‑ an out of sequence IE encoded as \"comprehension required\" (see 3GPP TS
24.008, subclause 10.5),
is received,
‑ the MS shall, if COMM = F, ignore the message. Otherwise it shall proceed as
follows:
The MS shall ignore the message except for the fact that it shall return a
STATUS message with cause \"invalid mandatory information\" and including, if
possible, as diagnostics the complete message received (this may not be
possible, e.g., due to length restrictions).
## 7.6 Unknown and unforeseen information elements in the non‑imperative
message part
### 7.6.1 Information elements unknown in the message
The protocol entity in the MS shall ignore all information elements unknown in
a message which are not encoded as \"comprehension required\".
### 7.6.2 Out of sequence information elements
The MS shall ignore all out of sequence Information elements in a message
which are not encoded as \"comprehension required\".
### 7.6.3 Repeated Information elements
If an information element with format T, TV, or TLV is repeated in a message
in which repetition of the information element is not specified in clause 8,
only the contents of the information element appearing first shall be handled
and all subsequent repetitions of the information element shall be ignored.
When repetition of information elements is specified, only the contents of
specified repeated information elements shall be handled. If the limit on
repetition of information elements is exceeded, the contents of information
elements appearing first up to the limit of repetitions shall be handled and
all subsequent repetitions of the information element shall be ignored.
## 7.7 Non‑imperative message part errors
This category includes:
‑ syntactically incorrect optional Information elements;
‑ conditional IE errors.
### 7.7.1 Syntactically incorrect optional Information elements
The protocol entity shall treat all optional Information elements that are
syntactically incorrect in a message as not present in the message.
## 7.8 Messages with semantically incorrect contents
When a message with semantically incorrect contents is received, the foreseen
reactions of the procedural part (i.e. of clauses 5 and 6) of the present
document are performed. If however no such reactions are specified, the MS
shall ignore the message except for the fact that, if COMM = T, it returns a
STATUS message with cause value \"semantically incorrect message\" and
including, if possible, as diagnostics the complete message received (this may
not be possible, e.g.: due to length restrictions).
# 8 Message functional definitions and contents
This clause defines the structure of the messages of those layer 3 protocols
defined in the present document, that is the BCC protocol.
All messages are standard L3 messages as defined in 3GPP TS 24.007.
Each definition given in the present clause includes:
‑ a brief description of the message direction and use;
‑ a definition in which direction the message is defined;
‑ a table listing the information elements permitted to be in that message and
their order of their appearance in the message. All information elements that
may be repeated are explicitly indicated. Neither the network nor the MS is
allowed to include information elements in a message which are not specified
for the message or to include the information elements in the message in an
order different from the specified order. (V and LV formatted IEs, which
compose the imperative part of the message, occur before T, TV, and TLV
formatted IEs which compose the non‑imperative part of the message, cf. 3GPP
TS 24.007.) In a (maximal) sequence of consecutive information elements with
half octet length, the first information element with half octet length
occupies bits 1 to 4 of octet N, the second bits 5 to 8 of octet N, the third
bits 1 to 4 of octet N+1 etc. Such a sequence always has an even number of
elements.
For each information element the table indicates:
1) if the IE has format T, TV, or TLV, the IEI used by the IE at the indicated
position in the message, in hexadecimal notation. If the IEI has half octet
length, this is specified by a notation representing the IEI as a hexadecimal
digit followed by a \"‑\" (example: B‑);
2) the name of the information element (which may give an idea of the
semantics of the element). The name of the information element (usually
written in italics) followed by \"IE\" or \"information element\" is used in
3GPP TS 24.008 as reference to the information element within a message;
3) the name of the type of the information element (which indicates the coding
of the value part of the IE), and generally, the referenced subclause of
clause 9 describing the value part of the information element;
4) the presence requirement indication (M or O) for the IE as defined in 3GPP
TS 24.007 (Presence requirement indication C is not used in the present
document.);
5) the format of the information element (T, V, TV, LV, TLV) as defined in
3GPP TS 24.007;
6) the length of the information element (or permissible range of lengths), in
octets, in the message. This indication is normative. However, further
restrictions to the length of an IE may be specified elsewhere.
c) subclauses specifying, where appropriate:
‑ the meaning of and
‑ conditions for
absence, repeated occurrence, and/or presence for IEs with presence
requirement O in the relevant message which together with other conditions
specified in the present document define when the information elements shall
be included or not, what presence, repeated occurrence, and absence of such
IEs means.
Table 8.1 summarizes the messages for BCC. A letter D (\"downlink\") specifies
that the message is defined in the direction network to mobile station, a
letter U (\"uplink\") specifies that the message is defined in the direction
mobile station to network.
> Message Reference Direction\ \ DATA 8.1 D,U\ IMMediate Setup 8.2 no\ RELEASE
> COMPLETE 8.3 D,U U\ SETUP 8.4 D,U\ SETUP ACKNOWLEDGE 8.5 D,U\ RESUME 8.6 U\
> RESUME ACK 8.7 D
>
> STATUS 8.8 D,U
TABLE 8.1
Messages for BCC
## 8.1 CONNECT
This message is sent by the network to the calling MS in order to indicate
establishment of the requested broadcast call.
See table 8.1.
Message type: CONNECT
Significance: dual
Direction: network to MS
Table 8.1: CONNECT message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
        Broadcast Call control\    Protocol discriminator\   M          V        1/2
        protocol discriminator     9.1
        Transaction identifier     Transaction identifier\   M          V        1/2
                                   9.2
        Connect\                   Message type\             M          V        1
        message type               9.3
        Broadcast call reference   Call reference\           M          V        4
                                   9.4.1
        Originator indication      Originator indication\    M          V        1/2
                                   9.4.4
        Spare half octet           Spare half octet\         M          V        1/2
                                   9.4.5
* * *
## 8.2 GET STATUS
This message is sent by the network at any time to solicit a STATUS message
from the MS in acknowledged or unacknowledged mode.
See table 8.2.
Message type: GET STATUS
Significance: local
Direction: network to MS
Table 8.2: GET STATUS message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
        protocol discriminator   protocol discriminator\    M          V        1/2
                                 9.1
        transaction identifier   transaction identifier\    M          V        1/2
                                 9.2
        message type             message type\              M          V        1
                                 9.3
        mobile identity          mobile identity\           O          TLV      3‑10
                                 3GPP TS 24.008, 10.5.1.4
* * *
### 8.2.1 mobile identity
This IE is included if the network wishes so. If the message is received by
the MS in acknowledged mode, it shall be ignored by the MS. If received in
unacknowledged mode, it specifies the destination MS, see clause 5.
## 8.3 IMMEDIATE SETUP
This message is sent by the MS to the network in order to set‑up a broadcast
call immediately, i.e. without previous establishment of an MM connection. See
table 8.3.
Message type: IMMEDIATE SETUP
Significance: dual
Direction: MS to network
Table 8.3: IMMEDIATE SETUP message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
        protocol discriminator    protocol discriminator\    M          V        1/2
                                  9.1
        transaction identifier    transaction identifier\    M          V        1/2
                                  9.2
        message type              message type\              M          V        1
                                  9.3
        Spare half octet          Spare half octet\          M          V        1/2
                                  9.4.5
        Ciphering key sequence\   Ciphering key sequence\    M          V        1/2
        number                    number\                                        
                                  3GPP TS 24.008, 10.5.1.2
        Mobile station\           Mobile station\            M          LV       4
        classmark                 classmark 2\                                   
                                  3GPP TS 24.008, 10.5.1.6
        Mobile identity           Mobile identity\           M          LV       2‑9
                                  3GPP TS 24.008, 10.5.1.4
        Broadcast identity        Call reference             M          V        4
* * *
### 8.3.1 Mobile identity
This IE shall specify the TMSI, if available, and the IMSI else.
## 8.3a IMMEDIATE SETUP 2
This message is sent by the MS to the network in order to set-up a group call
immediately, i.e. without previous establishment of an MM connection, and to
include compressed originator-to dispatcher information. The message shall
only be used if the MS has a valid TMSI. See table 8.3a.
Message type: IMMEDIATE SETUP 2;
Significance: dual
Direction: MS to network.
Table 8.3a: IMMEDIATE SETUP 2 message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
        Protocol discriminator          Protocol discriminator\                                  M          V        1/2
                                        9.1
        Transaction identifier          Transaction identifier\                                  M          V        1/2
                                        9.2
        Message type                    Message type\                                            M          V        1
                                        9.3
        Spare half octet                Spare half octet\                                        M          V        ½
                                        9.4.6
        Ciphering key sequence number   Ciphering key sequence number 3GPP TS 24.008, 10.5.1.2   M          V        ½
        Mobile station classmark        Mobile station classmark 2\                              M          LV       4
                                        3GPP TS 24.008, 10.5.1.6
        TMSI                            TMSI/P-TMSI\                                             M          V        4
                                        3GPP TS 44.018, 10.5.2.42
        Group identity                  Call reference\                                          M          V        4
                                        9.4.1
        Compressed otdi                 Compressed otdi\                                         M          V        5
                                        9.4.7
* * *
### 8.3a.1 TMSI
The _TMSI_ information element indicates the Temporary Mobile Subscriber
Identity of the MS.
### 8.3a.2 Compressed otdi
This information element contains compressed originator-to-dispatcher
information.
## 8.4 SET PARAMETER
This message is sent by the network at any time to ask the MS for setting of
parameters and consequential actions.
See table 8.4.
Message type: SET PARAMETER
Significance: local
Direction: network to MS
Table 8.4: SET PARAMETER message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
        protocol discriminator   protocol discriminator\   M          V        1/2
                                 9.1
        transaction identifier   transaction identifier\   M          V        1/2
                                 9.2
        message type             message type\             M          V        1
                                 9.3
        state attributes         state attributes\         M          V        1/2
                                 9.4.6
        spare half octet         spare half octet\         M          V        1/2
                                 9.4.6
* * *
## 8.5 SETUP
This message is sent by the MS to the network in order to set‑up a broadcast
call after establishment of an MM connection.
See table 8.5.
Message type: SETUP
Significance: dual
Direction: MS to network
Table 8.5: SETUP message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
        protocol discriminator                 protocol discriminator\             M          V        1/2
                                               9.1
        transaction identifier                 transaction identifier\             M          V        1/2
                                               9.2
        message type                           message type\                       M          V        1
                                               9.3
        Broadcast identity                     Call reference\                     M          V        4
                                               9.4.1
7E Originator-to-dispatcher information User-user\ O TLV 3-35 3GPP TS 24.008
subclause10.5.4.25
* * *
### 8.5.1 Originator-to-dispatcher information
The _Originator-to-dispatcher_ IE specifies originator-to-dispatcher
information. The coding of the IE is equal to the coding of User-user
information defined in 3GPP TS 24.008 subclause 10.5.4.25.
## 8.6 STATUS
This message is sent by the MS to the network at any time during a call to
report certain error conditions listed in subclause 8. It shall also be sent
in response to a GET STATUS message.
See table 8.6.
Message type: STATUS
Significance: local
Direction: MS to network
Table 8.6: STATUS message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
        protocol discriminator   protocol discriminator\   M          V        1/2
                                 9.1
        transaction identifier   transaction identifier\   M          V        1/2
                                 9.2
        message type             message type\             M          V        1
                                 9.3
        cause                    cause\                    M          LV       2‑248
                                 9.4.3
A‑ call state call state\ O TV 1 9.4.2
B‑ state attributes state attributes\ O TV 1 9.4.6
* * *
### 8.6.1 Call state
This IE may always be included in the message. In certain cases identified in
the present document, the IE shall be included in the message, e.g., when used
in the get status procedure.
### 8.6.2 State attributes
This IE may always be included in the message. In certain cases identified in
the present document, the IE shall be included in the message, e.g., when used
in the get status procedure.
## 8.7 TERMINATION
This message is sent by the network to the MS in order to terminate the
connection between the two peer entities in the network and MS and/or to
indicate that the broadcast call has been or will be terminated, e.g. as a
response to a termination request.
See table 8.7.
Message type: TERMINATION
Significance: dual
Direction: network to MS
Table 8.7: TERMINATION message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
        protocol discriminator   protocol discriminator\   M          V        1/2
                                 9.1
        transaction identifier   transaction identifier\   M          V        1/2
                                 9.2
        message type             message type\             M          V        1
                                 9.3
        cause                    cause\                    M          LV       2‑248
                                 9.4.3
* * *
## 8.8 TERMINATION REJECT
This message is sent by the network to the MS in order to reject a termination
request.
See table 8.8.
Message type: TERMINATION REJECT
Significance: dual
Direction: network to MS
Table 8.8: TERMINATION REJECT message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
        protocol discriminator   protocol discriminator\   M          V        1/2
                                 9.1
        transaction identifier   transaction identifier\   M          V        1/2
                                 9.2
        message type             message type\             M          V        1
                                 9.3
        Reject cause             Cause\                    M          LV       2-248
                                 9.4.3
* * *
## 8.9 TERMINATION REQUEST
This message is sent by the MS to the network in order to request termination
of a broadcast call which it had originated.
See table 8.9.
Message type: TERMINATION REQUEST
Significance: dual
Direction: MS to network
Table 8.9: TERMINATION REQUEST message content
* * *
IEI Information element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
        protocol discriminator     protocol discriminator\   M          V        1/2
                                   9.1
        transaction identifier     transaction identifier\   M          V        1/2
                                   9.2
        message type               message type\             M          V        1
                                   9.3
        Broadcast call reference   Call reference\           M          V        4
                                   9.4.1
* * *
# 9 Contents of information elements value parts
The figures and text in this clause describe the contents of Information
Elements (IE) value parts. The structure of an IE as composed of Information
Element Identifier (IEI), length, and value part is defined in 3GPP TS 24.007.
## 9.1 Protocol Discriminator
The Protocol Discriminator (PD) and its use are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007.
## 9.2 Transaction identifier
Bits 5 to 8 of the first octet of every message belonging to the BCC protocol
contain the transaction identifier (TI). The transaction identifier and its
use are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007.
## 9.3 Message Type
The message type IE and its use are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007. Table 9.1
define the value part of the message type IE used in the BCC protocol.
Table 9.1: Message types for BCC
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
0 x 1 1 0 0 0 1 IMMEDIATE SETUP 0 x 1 1 0 0 1 0 SETUP 0 x 1 1 0 0 1 1 CONNECT
0 x 1 1 0 1 0 0 TERMINATION 0 x 1 1 0 1 0 1 TERMINATION REQUEST 0 x 1 1 0 1 1
0 TERMINATION REJECT 0 x 1 1 1 0 0 0 STATUS 0 x 1 1 1 0 0 1 GET STATUS 0 x 1 1
1 0 1 0 SET PARAMETER 0 x 1 1 1 0 1 1 IMMEDIATE SETUP 2
* * *
Bit 8 is reserved for possible future use as an extension bit, see 3GPP TS
24.007.
Bit 7 is reserved for the send sequence number in BCC messages sent from the
MS. In BCC messages sent from the network an, bit 7 is coded with a \"0\". See
3GPP TS 24.007.
## 9.4 Other information elements
For coding of other IEs, the rules defined in 3GPP TS 24.007 annex B apply.
### 9.4.1 Call Reference
The _Call Reference_ information element identifies the broadcast call
reference or broadcast Id of a broadcast call. It is coded as shown below. It
is a type 3 information element.
_\ _ ::= **reference** _{_ **0 spare_4** _\|_ { **1**
**priority** spare_1 } _}_
**Attributes**
The information element defines a reference which, depending on the situation,
is to be interpreted as a broadcast call reference or as a broadcast id. If
the **priority** field is present in _\ _, the information
element also specifies a priority.
If the _Call Reference_ IE is included in the SETUP message and if the
**priority** field is present in _\ _, then the MS shall set
the priority value to be the same as the priority value in the
CM_SERVICE_REQUEST message.
**Field contents**
The field of the _call reference_ information element are coded as shown in
table 9.2.
Table 9.2: _call reference_ information element
* * *
**reference** (27 bits)  
This field contains the 27 bit binary encoding (with leading zeroes) of the
number the decimal encoding of which (with leading zeroes) is the broadcast
call reference or the broadcast id (see 3GPP TS 23.003).
**priority** (3 bits)  
3 2 1  
0 0 0 reserved  
0 0 1 call priority level 4  
0 1 0 call priority level 3  
0 1 1 call priority level 2  
1 0 0 call priority level 1  
1 0 1 call priority level 0  
1 1 0 call priority level B  
1 1 1 call priority level A
**spare_4** (4 bits)  
This field shall be ignored
**spare_1** (1 bit)  
This field shall be ignored
* * *
### 9.4.2 Call state
The _call state_ information element identifies a state, and, if applicable, a
sub‑state of the broadcast call protocol at the MS side. It is coded as
defined below. It is a type 1 information element.
_\ _ _::=_ **state**
**Attributes**
The **state** field defines an integer N in the range 0..15. The _call state_
information element defines a call state or a sub‑state of state U2, ACTIVE,
of the BCC protocol.
**Field contents**
See table 9.3.
**Static conditions**
The values 12 to 15 of integer N are reserved.
Table 9.3: _call state_ information element
* * *
state (4 bits)
                   This field contains the 4 bit encoding (with leading zeroes) of an integer N = 0, \..., 15. The state or substate associated to integer N is defined below:
                   N                                                                                                                                                                state
                   0                                                                                                                                                                U0
                   1                                                                                                                                                                U1
                   2                                                                                                                                                                U2
                   3                                                                                                                                                                U3
                   4                                                                                                                                                                U4
                   5                                                                                                                                                                U5
                   6                                                                                                                                                                U0.p
                   7                                                                                                                                                                U6
                   All other values are reserved.
* * *
### 9.4.3 Cause
The purpose of the _cause_ information element is to describe the reason for
generating certain messages and to provide diagnostic information in the event
of procedural errors.
The _cause_ information element is a type 4 information element. Its value
part has a minimal length of 1 octet. The maximum length is given by the
maximum number of octets in a L3 message (see 3GPP TS 44.006).
The value part is coded as shown below:
_\ _ ::= **1** **cause_part** [ **diagnostics** _]_
_\|_ **0 cause_part** _\ _
**Attributes**
The **cause_part** field defines a non‑negative integer N. If more than one
**cause_part** fields are present in _\ _, the information element
indicates an unspecific cause; otherwise, it indicates a cause as defined by
N.
**Field contents**
The fields of the information element are coded as shown in table 9.4.
Table 9.4: _cause_ information element
* * *
cause_part (7 bits)
                         This field contains the 7 bit encoding (with leading zeroes) of a non‑negative integer which   
                         specifies a cause as defined below:
                         N                                                                                              cause
                         3                                                                                              Illegal MS
                         5                                                                                              IMEI not accepted
                         6                                                                                              Illegal ME
                         8                                                                                              Service not authorized
                         9                                                                                              Application not supported on the protocol
                         10                                                                                             RR connection aborted
                         16                                                                                             Normal call clearing
                         17                                                                                             Network failure
                         20                                                                                             Busy
                         22                                                                                             Congestion
                         23                                                                                             User not originator of call
                         24                                                                                             Network wants to maintain call
                         30                                                                                             Response to GET STATUS
                         32                                                                                             Service option not supported
                         33                                                                                             Requested service option not subscribed
                         34                                                                                             Service option temporarily out of order
                         38                                                                                             Call cannot be identified
                         48 ‑ 63                                                                                        retry upon entry into a new cell
                         81                                                                                             Invalid transaction identifier value
                         95                                                                                             Semantically incorrect message
                         96                                                                                             Invalid mandatory information
                         97                                                                                             Message type non‑existent or not implemented
                         98                                                                                             Message type not compatible with the protocol state
                         99                                                                                             Information element non‑existent or not implemented
                         100                                                                                            Message type not compatible with the protocol state
                         112                                                                                            Protocol error, unspecified
                         Any other value received shall be treated as an unspecific cause.
Diagnostics
                         This field contains a message or information element.
* * *
### 9.4.4 Originator indication
The _originator indication_ information element informs the broadcast call
control entity in the MS whether it is the calling user. It is a type 1
information element.
The value part is coded as shown below:
_\ _ ::= **spare_3 OI**
**Attributes**
The IE defines whether the MS is the originator of the broadcast call.
**Field contents**
The fields of the information element are coded as shown in table 9.5.
Table 9.5: _originator indication_ information element fields
* * *
spare_3 (3 bits)  
This field shall be ignored.
**OI** (1 bit)  
**0** The MS is not the originator of the call **1** The MS is the originator
of the call
* * *
### 9.4.5 Spare Half Octet
This element is used in the description of messages in clause 8 when an odd
number of half octet type 1 information elements are used. This element
consists of 4 bits set to zero and is placed in bits 5 to 8 of the octet
unless otherwise specified. It is a type 1 information element.
### 9.4.6 State attributes
The _state attributes_ information element contains information about
parameter values of the MS. It is a type 1 information element.
The value part is coded as shown below:
_\ _ ::= **DA** **UA** **COMM OI**
**Attributes**
The IE defines values of parameters D‑ATT, U‑ATT, ORIG, and COMM.
**Field contents**
The fields of the information element are coded as shown in table 9.7.
Table 9.7: _state attributes_ information element fields
* * *
DA (1 bit)  
**0** User connection in the downlink not attached (D‑ATT = F) **1** User
connection in the downlink attached (D‑ATT = T)
**UA** (1 bit)  
**0** User connection in the uplink not attached (U‑ATT = F) **1** User
connection in the uplink attached (U‑ATT = T)
**COMM** (1 bit)  
**0** COMM = F **1** COMM = T
**OI** (1 bit)  
**0** The MS is not the originator of the call (ORIG = F) **1** The MS is the
originator of the call (ORIG = T)
* * *
### 9.4.7 Compressed otdi
The _Compressed otdi_ information element specifies an integer N in 40 bit
binary representation; bit 8 of octet 1 is the most significant bit and bit 1
of octet 5 is the least significant bit. The integer denotes compressed
originator-to-dispatcher information. The corresponding decompressed
originator-to-dispatcher information is given by the following attributes:
\- User-user protocol discriminator: IA5 characters.
\- User-user information: The user-user information is a string of 12 digits
which are the decimal representation of the integer N with leading zeros. Each
digit after decompression is coded in one octet. The bits 1 to 7 are used for
the coding of the IA5 character, and bit 8 is coded as \"0\". A coding example
is given in Annex A.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Example of the coding of the user-user
information after decompression of the originator-to-dispatcher information
If the originator-to-dispatcher information after the decompression in decimal
representation with leading zeros is \"000000009123\", then the user-user
information is coded in IA5 characters as follows:
Table A.1: Example of user-user information in IA5 characters after
decompression
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 content IA5 Code
**0** 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 1. digit: 0 0x30 **0** 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 2. digit: 0 0x30
**0** 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 3. digit: 0 0x30 **0** 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 4. digit: 0 0x30
**0** 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 5. digit: 0 0x30 **0** 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 6. digit: 0 0x30
**0** 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 7. digit: 0 0x30 **0** 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 8. digit: 0 0x30
**0** 0 1 1 1 0 0 1 9. digit: 9 0x39 **0** 0 1 1 0 0 0 1 10. digit: 1 0x31
**0** 0 1 1 0 0 1 0 11. digit: 2 0x32 **0** 0 1 1 0 0 1 1 12. digit: 3 0x33
* * *
#