# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the digital test sequences for the adaptive
multi-rate (AMR) speech codec. These sequences test for a bit exact
implementation of the adaptive multi-rate speech transcoder (TS 26.090 [2]),
voice activity detection (TS 26.094 [5]), comfort noise (TS 26.092 [3]), and
source controlled rate operation (TS 26.093 [4]).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 26.071: \"AMR Speech Codec; General Description\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.090: \"AMR Speech Codec; Speech Transcoding Functions\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.092: \"AMR Speech Codec; Comfort Noise Aspects\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.093: \"AMR Speech Codec; Source Controlled Rate Operation\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.094: \"AMR Speech Codec; Voice Activity Detector\".
[6] 3GPP TS 26.091: \"AMR Speech Codec; Error Concealment of Lost Frames\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.073: \"AMR Speech Codec; ANSI C-code\".
[8] ETSI ETS 300 725: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Test sequences for the GSM Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech codec (GSM
06.54)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 26.090 [2], TS 26.091 [6], TS 26.092 [3], TS 26.093 [4] and TS 26.094 [5]
apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
[T.B.A]
# 4 General
Digital test sequences are necessary to test for a bit exact implementation of
the adaptive multi-rate speech transcoder (TS 26.090 [2]), voice activity
detection (TS 26.094 [5]), comfort noise generation (TS 26.092 [3]), and
source controlled rate operation (TS 26.093 [4]).
The test sequences may also be used to verify installations of the ANSI C code
in TS 26.073 [7].
Clause 5 describes the format of the files which contain the digital test
sequences. Clause 6 describes the test sequences for the speech transcoder.
Clause 7 describes the test sequences for the VAD, comfort noise and source
controlled rate operation.
Clause 8 describes the method by which synchronisation is obtained between the
test sequences and the speech codec under test.
[Clause 9 describes the alternative acceptance testing of the speech encoder
and decoder in the TRAU by means of 8 bit A- or µ-law compressed test
sequences on the A-Interface.]
# 5 Test sequence format
This clause provides information on the format of the digital test sequences
for the GSM adaptive multi-rate speech transcoder (TS 26.090 [2]), voice
activity detection (TS 26.094 [5]), comfort noise generation (TS 26.092 [3]),
and source controlled rate operation (TS 26.093 [4]).
## 5.1 File format
The test sequence files in PC (little-endian) byte order are provided in
archive files (ZIP format) which accompany the present document.
Following decompression, three types of file are provided:
\- Files for input to the speech encoder: *.INP
\- Files for comparison with the encoder output and for input to the speech
decoder: *.COD
\- Files for comparison with the decoder output: *.OUT
\- One mode control file for the mode switching test T21.MOD
All file formats are described in TS 26.073 [7].
## 5.2 Codec homing
Each *.INP file includes two homing frames (see TS 26.073 [7]) at the start of
the test sequence. The function of these frames is to reset the speech encoder
state variables to their initial value. In the case of a correct installation
of the ANSI-C simulation (TS 26.073 [7]), all speech encoder output frames
shall be identical to the corresponding frame in the *.COD file. In the case
of a correct hardware implementation undergoing testing, the first speech
encoder output frame is undefined and need not be identical to the first frame
in the *.COD file, but all remaining speech encoder output frames shall be
identical to the corresponding frames in the *.COD file.
The function of the two homing frames in the *.COD files is to reset the
speech decoder state variables to their initial value. In the case of a
correct installation of the ANSI-C simulation (TS 26.073 [7]), all speech
decoder output frames shall be identical to the corresponding frame in the
*.OUT file. In the case of a correct hardware implementation undergoing
testing, the first speech decoder output frame is undefined and need not be
identical to first frame in the *.OUT file, but all remaining speech decoder
output frames shall be identical to the corresponding frames in the *.OUT
file.
# 6 Speech codec test sequences
This clause describes the test sequences designed to exercise the adaptive
multi-rate speech transcoder (TS 26.090 [2]).
## 6.1 Codec configuration
The speech encoder shall be configured not to operate in the source controlled
rate mode.
## 6.2 Speech codec test sequences
### 6.2.1 Speech encoder test sequences
Twenty-two encoder input sequences are provided. Note that for the input
sequences T00.INP to T03.INP, the amplitude figures are given in 13-bit
precision. The active speech levels are given in dBov.
\- T00.INP - Synthetic harmonic signal. The pitch delay varies slowly from 18
to 143.5 samples. The minimum and maximum amplitudes are -997 and +971.
\- T01.INP - Synthetic harmonic signal. The pitch delay varies slowly from 144
down to 18.5 samples. Amplitudes at saturation point -4096 and +4095.
\- T02.INP - Sinusoidal sweep varying from 150 Hz to 3400 Hz. Amplitudes ±
1250.
\- T03.INP - Sinusoidal sweep varying from 150 Hz to 3400 Hz. Amplitudes ±
4000.
\- T04.INP - Female speech, active speech level: -19.4 dBov, flat frequency
response.
\- T05.INP - Male speech, active speech level: -18.7 dBov, flat frequency
response.
\- T06.INP - Female speech, ambient noise, active speech level: -35.0 dBov,
flat frequency response.
\- T07.INP - Female speech, ambient noise, active speech level: -25.0 dBov,
flat frequency response.
\- T08.INP - Female speech, ambient noise, active speech level: -15.6 dBov,
flat frequency response.
\- T09.INP - Female speech, car noise, active speech level: -35.5 dBov, flat
frequency response.
\- T10.INP - Female speech, car noise, active speech level: -26.1 dBov, flat
frequency response.
\- T11.INP - Female speech, car noise, active speech level: -15.8 dBov, flat
frequency response.
\- T12.INP - Male speech, ambient noise, active speech level: -34.9 dBov, flat
frequency response.
\- T13.INP - Male speech, ambient noise, active speech level: -24.8 dBov, flat
frequency response.
\- T14.INP - Male speech, ambient noise, active speech level: -15.0 dBov, flat
frequency response.
\- T15.INP - Male speech, babble noise, active speech level: -34.1 dBov, flat
frequency response.
\- T16.INP - Male speech, babble noise, active speech level: -24.3 dBov, flat
frequency response.
\- T17.INP - Male speech, babble noise, active speech level: -14.4 dBov, flat
frequency response.
\- T18.INP - Female speech, ambient noise, active speech level: -26.0 dBov,
modified IRS frequency response, with many zero frames.
\- T19.INP - Male speech, ambient noise, active speech level: -36.0 dBov,
modified IRS frequency response, with many zero frames.
\- T20.INP - Sequence for exercising the LPC vector quantisation codebooks and
ROM tables of the codec.
\- T21.INP - Speech sequence for mode switching test.
The output using these input sequences will be different depending on the
tested adaptive multi-rate mode. In the notation used below \ should be
changed to the number of the tested mode, i.e. one of 122, 102, 795, 74, 67,
59, 515, or 475.
The T00.INP and T01.INP sequences were designed to test the pitch lag of the
GSM adaptive multi-rate speech encoder. In a correct implementation, the
resulting speech encoder output parameters shall be identical to those
specified in the T00_\.COD and T01_\.COD sequences, respectively.
The T02.INP and T03.INP sequences are particularly suited for testing the LPC
analysis, as well as for finding saturation problems. In a correct
implementation, the resulting speech encoder output parameters shall be
identical to those specified in the T02_\.COD and T03_\.COD
sequences, respectively.
The T04.INP and T05.INP sequences contain a lot of low-frequency components.
In a correct implementation, the resulting speech encoder output parameters
shall be identical to those specified in the T04_\.COD and
T05_\.COD sequences, respectively.
The T18.INP and T19.INP sequences contain some \"all zeros\" frames (silence)
in between segments of speech. In a correct implementation, the resulting
speech encoder output parameters shall be identical to those specified in the
T18_\.COD and T19_\.COD sequences, respectively.
The T20.INP sequence was designed to exercise the LPC code indices and the ROM
table indices of the codec.
The sequences T06.INP to T17.INP were selected on the basis of bringing
various input characteristics (background noise) and levels to the test
sequence set. In a correct implementation, the resulting speech encoder output
parameters shall be identical to those specified in the T06_\.COD to
T17_\.COD sequences, respectively.
The T21.INP sequence was designed to test mode switching in the encoder. For
testing mode switching this sequence is used together with the mode control
file T21.MOD. See TS 26.073 [7] for the format of the mode control file. In a
correct implementation, the resulting speech encoder output parameters shall
be identical to those specified in the sequence T21.COD. Note that T21.COD
contains parameter frames in different codec modes.
### 6.2.2 Speech decoder test sequences
Twenty-one times eight speech decoder input sequences TXX_\.COD (XX =
00..20, \ = {122, 102, 795, 74, 67, 59, 515, or 475}) are provided for
the static mode tests. These are the output of the corresponding TXX.INP
sequences, one set per mode. In a correct implementation, the resulting speech
decoder output shall be identical to the corresponding TXX_\.OUT
sequences.
The switching test decoder input T21.COD shall result in decoder output
identical to the T21.OUT sequence. For the decoder switching test no special
mode control file is needed since the mode information is included in the .COD
file according to the file format (see TS 26.073 [7]).
### 6.2.3 Codec homing sequence
In addition to the test sequences described above, the homing sequences are
provided to assist in codec testing. T22.INP contains one encoder-homing-
frame. The sequences T22_\.COD (\ = {122, 102, 795, 74, 67, 59,
515, or 475}) contain one decoder-homing-frame each for the corresponding
mode. The use of these sequences is described in TS 26.071 [1].
All files are contained in the archive T.TGZ which accompanies the present
document.
# 7 Test sequences for source controlled rate operation
This clause describes the test sequences designed to exercise the VAD
algorithm options 1 and 2 (TS 26.094 [5]), comfort noise (TS 26.092 [3]), and
source controlled rate operation (TS 26.093 [4]).
Test sequences DTX*.* are to be used with VAD option 1. DTX1.*, DTX2.*, and
DTX4.* shall be run only with speech codec mode MR122. Test sequence DTX3.*
shall be run for all the speech codec modes (MR122, MR102, MR795, MR67, MR59,
MR515 and MR475).
Test sequencesDT2.*.* are to be used with VAD option 2. DT21.*, DT23.*, and
DT24.* shall be run only with speech codec mode MR122. Test sequence DT22.*
shall be run for all the speech codec modes (MR122, MR102, MR795, MR67, MR59,
MR515 and MR475).
## 7.1 Codec configuration
The VAD, comfort noise and source controlled rate operation shall be tested in
conjunction with the speech coder (TS 26.090 [2]). The speech encoder shall be
configured to operate in the source controlled rate mode,with either VAD
option1 or VAD option 2.
## 7.2 Test Sequences
Each DTX test sequence consists of three files:
\- Files for input to the speech encoder: *.INP
\- Files for comparison with the encoder output and input to the speech
decoder: *.COD
\- Files for comparison with the decoder output: *.OUT
The *.COD and *.OUT file names has the format DTxA_\.*, where \"x\" is
the VAD option ( X for option 1 and 2 for option 2), \"A\" is the test case
number (1, 2, 3 or 4) and \ is the speech codec mode.
In a correct implementation, the speech encoder parameters generated by the
*.INP file shall be identical to those specified in the *.COD file; and the
speech decoder output generated by the *.COD file shall be identical to that
specified in the *.OUT file.
* * *
Sequence name No. of frames Size (bytes)  
*.INP *.COD *.OUT DTX1 710 227 200 355 000 227 200 DTX2 898 287 360 449 000 287 360 DTX3 1620 518 400 810 000 518 400 DTX4 1188 380 160 594 000 380 160 DT21 938 300 160 469 000 300 160 DT22 616 197 280 308 000 197 120 DT23 938 300 320 469 000 300 160 DT24 1188 380 160 594 000 380 160
* * *
### 7.2.1 Test sequences for background noise estimation
Background noise estimation algorithm is tested by the following test
sequences:
DTX1.*
DTX2.*
DT21.*
DT22.*
(The sequence DTX1.INP in the same as in ETS 300 725 (GSM 06.54) sequence
DTX01.INP)
### 7.2.2 Test sequences for pitch, tone and complex signal detection
Pitch, tone and complex signal detection algorithms are tested by the
following test sequence:
DTX3.*
### 7.2.3 Real speech and tones
This test sequence consists of very clean speech, barely detectable speech and
a swept frequency tone (The sequences DTX4.INP and DT24.INP are the same as in
ETS 300 725 (GSM 06.54) sequence DTX07.INP):
DTX4.*
DT24.*
### 7.2.4 Test sequence for signal-to-noise ratio estimation
The full range of SNR estimates are tested by the following test sequence:
DT23.*
# 8 Sequences for finding the 20 ms framing of the adaptive multi-rate speech
encoder
_[This clause needs further adaptation of the text and terminology from GSM to
3G context.]_
When testing the decoder, alignment of the test sequences used to the decoder
framing is achieved by the air interface (testing of MS) or can be reached
easily on the Abis-interface (testing on network side).
When testing the encoder, usually there is no information available about
where the encoder starts its 20 ms segments of speech input to the encoder.
In the following, a procedure is described to find the 20 ms framing of the
encoder using special synchronisation sequences. This procedure can be used
for MS as well as for network side.
Synchronisation can be achieved in two steps. First, bit synchronisation has
to be found. In a second step, frame synchronisation can be determined. This
procedure takes advantage of the codec homing feature of the adaptive multi-
rate codec, which puts the codec in a defined home state after the reception
of the first homing frame. On the reception of further homing frames, the
output of the codec is predefined and can be triggered to.
## 8.1 Bit synchronisation
The input to the speech encoder is a series of 13 bit long words (104 kbits/s,
13 bit linear PCM). When starting to test the speech encoder, no knowledge is
available on bit synchronisation, i.e., where the encoder expects its least
significant bits, and where it expects the most significant bits.
The encoder homing frame consists of 160 samples, all set to zero with the
exception of the least significant bit, which is set to one (0 0000 0000 0001
binary, or 0x0008 hex if written into 16 bit words left justified). If two
such encoder homing frames are input to the encoder consecutively, the
corresponding decoder homing frame of the used codec mode is expected at the
output as a reaction of the second encoder homing frame.
Since there are only 13 possibilities for bit synchronisation, after a maximum
of 13 trials bit synchronisation can be reached for each codec mode. In each
trial three consecutive encoder homing frames are input to the encoder. If the
corresponding decoder homing frame is not detected at the output, the relative
bit position of the three input frames is shifted by one and another trial is
performed. As soon as the decoder homing frame of the used codec mode is
detected at the output, bit synchronisation is found, and the first step can
be terminated.
The reason why three consecutive encoder homing frames are needed is that
frame synchronisation is not known at this stage. To be sure that the encoder
reads two complete homing frames, three frames have to be input. Wherever the
encoder has its 20 ms segmentation, it will always read at least two complete
encoder homing frames.
An example of the 13 different frame triplets is given in sequence
BITSYNC.INP.
## 8.2 Frame synchronisation
Once bit synchronisation is found, frame synchronisation can be found by
inputting two identical frames consecutively to the encoder. There exist 160
different output sequences depending on the 160 different positions that the
beginning of this sequence of frames can possibly have with respect to the
encoder framing.
Before inputting this special synchronisation sequence to the encoder, again
the encoder has to be reset by one encoder homing frame. A second encoder
homing frame is needed to provoke a decoder homing frame at the output that
can be triggered to. And since the framing of the encoder is not known at that
stage, three encoder homing frames have to precede the special synchronisation
sequence to ensure that the encoder reads at least two homing frames, and at
least one decoder homing frame is produced at the output, serving as a trigger
for recording.
After the last decoder homing frame of the used codec mode it is required to
detect two consecutive output frames that are different from the preceding
decoder homing frame. To achive this in the 12.2 kbit/s mode (no lookahead in
the linear prediction analysis [4]), the last 40 samples of the third encoder
homing frame shall be different from 0x0008 hex. Only the first 120 samples of
this frame were set to 0x0008 hex in this mode.
The special synchronisation sequence preceded by three encoder homing frames
are given in SEQSYNC.INP. For the 12.2 kbit/s mode this sequence is different
in the third frame and is given in SEQSYNC_122.INP.
Generally, the output sequences will be different depending on the tested
adaptive multi-rate mode. In the notation below \ should be changed to
the number of the tested mode, i.e. one of 122, 102, 795, 74, 67, 59, 515 or
475.
In all 160 output sequences only the second frame after the last decoder
homing frame is given in SYNC000_\.COD through SYNC159_\.COD.
These output frames were calculated by shifting the sequence SEQSYNC.INP
respectively SEQSYNC_122.INP through the positions 0 to 159, where the samples
at the beginning were set to zero. For each codec mode it was finally verified
that the last frame in each of the 160 output sequences is different to all
other last frames.
The three digit number in the filenames above indicates the number of samples
by which the input was retarded with respect to the encoder framing. By a
corresponding shift in the opposite direction, alignment with the encoder
framing for the used codec mode can be reached.
## 8.3 Formats and sizes of the synchronisation sequences
BITSYNC.INP:
This sequence consists of 13 frame triplets. It has the format of the speech
encoder input test sequences (13 bit left justified with the three least
significant bits set to zero).
The size of it is therefore:
SIZE (BITSYNC.INP) = 13 * 3 * 160 * 2 bytes = 12480 bytes
SEQSYNC.INP/SEQSYNC_122.INP:
This sequence consist of a 3 frame header (see clause 8.2 for details) and the
special synchronisation sequence, consisting of two identical frames. It has
the format of the speech encoder input test sequences (13 bit left justified
with the three least significant bits set to zero).
The size of it is therefore:
SIZE (SEQSYNC.INP/SEQSYNC_122.INP) = 5 * 160 * 2 bytes = 1600 bytes
SYNCXXX_\.COD:
These sequences consists of 1 encoder output frame each. They have the format
of the speech encoder output test sequences (16 bit words right justified). In
these frames the values of the FRAME_TYPE and MODE_INFO fields are set to the
transmit frame type and to the corresponding encoding mode information [3].
The size of them is therefore:
SIZE (SYNCXXX_\.COD) = (244 + 6) * 2 bytes = 500 bytes
All files are contained in the archive S.TGZ which accompanies the present
document.
# 9 Trau Testing with 8 Bit A- and µ-law PCM Test Sequences
_[This clause needs further adaptation of the text and terminology from GSM to
3G context.]_
In the previous clauses, tests for the transcoder in the TRAU are described,
using 13 bit linear test sequences. However, these 13 bit test sequences
require a special interface in the TRAU and do not allow testing in the field.
In most cases the TRAU has to be set in special mode before testing.
The \'Y\' in the file names below stands for A (A-law) and U (µ-law),
respectively.
As an alternative, the speech codec tests in the TRAU can be performed using
A- or µ-law compressed 8 bit PCM test sequences on the A interface. For this
purpose modified input test sequences (TXX_Y.INP) are generated from the
original sequences (see clause 6) by A or µ law compression. As an input to
the encoder they result in modified encoder output sequences (TXX.COD). These
modified (TXX.COD) sequences are used as decoder input sequences. The decoder
will then produce the output sequences TXX_Y.OUT, which are A- or µ
compressed.
The A- and µ-law compression and decompression does not change the homing
frames at the encoder input. The format of all A- and µ-law PCM files
TXX_Y.INP and TXX_Y.OUT is one sample (8 bit) written into 16 bit words. The
format of the modified TXX.COD files is as described in clause 5.
All files are contained in the archives T_A.TGZ (for the A-law sequences) and
T_U.TGZ (for the µ-law sequences) which accompany the present document.
In addition to the test sequences above, special input
(SEQSYNC_Y.INP/SEQSYNC_122_Y.INP) and output (SEQSYNC000_\.COD through
SEQSYNC159_\.COD) sequences for frame synchronisation are provided. The
Y again stands for A and µ law compressed PCM and \ is described in
clause 6.
All files are contained in the archives S_A.TGZ (for the A-law sequences) and
S_U.TGZ (for the µ-law sequences) which accompany the present document. The
synchronization procedure is described in clause 8.
#