# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines an error concealment procedure, also termed frame
substitution and muting procedure, which shall be used by the AMR speech codec
receiving end when one or more lost speech or lost Silence Descriptor (SID)
frames are received.
The requirements of the present document are mandatory for implementation in
all networks and User Equipment (UE)s capable of supporting the AMR speech
codec. It is not mandatory to follow the bit exact implementation outlined in
the present document and the corresponding C source code.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 26.102: \"AMR Speech Codec; Interface to Iu snd Uu\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.090: \"Transcoding functions\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.093: \"Source Controlled Rate operation\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.101: \"Frame Structure\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**N-point median operation: c** onsists of sorting the N elements belonging to
the set for which the median operation is to be performed in an ascending
order according to their values, and selecting the (int (N/2) + 1) -th largest
value of the sorted set as the median value
Further definitions of terms used in the present document can be found in the
references.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AN Access Network
BFH Bad Frame Handling
BFI Bad Frame Indication from AN
BSI_netw Bad Sub-block Indication obtained from AN interface CRC checks
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
ECU Error Concealment Unit
medianN N-point median operation
PDFI Potentially Degraded Frame Indication
prevBFI Bad Frame Indication of previous frame
RX Receive
SCR Source Controlled Rate (operation)
SID Silence Descriptor frame (Background descriptor)
# 4 General
The purpose of the error concealment procedure is to conceal the effect of
lost AMR speech frames. The purpose of muting the output in the case of
several lost frames is to indicate the breakdown of the channel to the user
and to avoid generating possible annoying sounds as a result from the error
concealment procedure.
The network shall indicate lost speech or lost SID frames by setting the
RX_TYPE values [3] to SPEECH_BAD or SID_BAD. If these flags are set, the
speech decoder shall perform parameter substitution to conceal errors.
The network should also indicate potentially degraded frames using the flag
RX_TYPE value SPEECH_PROBABLY_DEGRADED. This flag may be derived from channel
quality indicators. It may be used by the speech decoder selectively depending
on the estimated signal type.
The example solutions provided in paragraphs 6 and 7 apply only to bad frame
handling on a complete speech frame basis. Sub-frame based error concealment
may be derived using similar methods.
# 5 Requirements
## 5.1 Error detection
If the most sensitive bits of the AMR speech data (class A in [4]) are
received in error, the network shall indicate RX_TYPE = SPEECH_BAD in which
case the BFI flag is set. If a SID frame is received in error, the network
shall indicate RX_TYPE = SID_BAD in which case the BFI flag is also set. The
RX_TYPE = SPEECH_PROBABLY_DEGRADED flag should be set appropriately using
quality information from the channel decoder, in which case the PDFI flag is
set.
## 5.2 Lost speech frames
Normal decoding of lost speech frames would result in very unpleasant noise
effects. In order to improve the subjective quality, lost speech frames shall
be substituted with either a repetition or an extrapolation of the previous
good speech frame(s). This substitution is done so that it gradually will
decrease the output level, resulting in silence at the output. Clauses 6, and
7 provide example solutions.
## 5.3 First lost SID frame
A lost SID frame shall be substituted by using the SID information from
earlier received valid SID frames and the procedure for valid SID frames be
applied as described in [3].
## 5.4 Subsequent lost SID frames
For many subsequent lost SID frames, a muting technique shall be applied to
the comfort noise that will gradually decrease the output level. For
subsequent lost SID frames, the muting of the output shall be maintained.
Clauses 6 and 7 provide example solutions.
# 6 Example ECU/BFH Solution 1
The C code of the following example is embedded in the bit exact software of
the codec. In the code the ECU is designed to allow subframe-by-subframe
synthesis, thereby reducing the speech synthesis delay to a minimum.
## 6.1 State Machine
This example solution for substitution and muting is based on a state machine
with seven states (Figure 1).
The system starts in state 0. Each time a bad frame is detected, the state
counter is incremented by one and is saturated when it reaches 6. Each time a
good speech frame is detected, the state counter is reset to zero, except when
we are in state 6, where we set the state counter to 5\. The state indicates
the quality of the channel: the larger the value of the state counter, the
worse the channel quality is. The control flow of the state machine can be
described by the following C code (**BFI** = bad frame indicator, **State** =
state variable):
**if(BFI != 0 )**
**State = State + 1;**
**else if(State == 6)**
**State = 5;**
**else**
**State = 0;**
**if(State > 6 )**
**State = 6;**
In addition to this state machine, the **Bad Frame Flag** from the previous
frame is checked (**prevBFI**). The processing depends on the value of the
**State** -variable. In states 0 and 5, the processing depends also on the two
flags **BFI** and **prevBFI**.
The procedure can be described as follows:
{width="4.04375in" height="5.782638888888889in"}
Figure 1: State machine for controlling the bad frame substitution
## 6.2 Assumed Active Speech Frame Error Concealment Unit Actions
### 6.2.1 BFI = 0, prevBFI = 0, State = 0
No error is detected in the received or in the previous received speech frame.
The received speech parameters are used in the normal way in the speech
synthesis. The current frame of speech parameters is saved.
### 6.2.2 BFI = 0, prevBFI = 1, State = 0 or 5
No error is detected in the received speech frame, but the previous received
speech frame was bad. The LTP gain and fixed codebook gain are limited below
the values used for the last received good
subframe:{width="1.94375in" height="0.5277777777777778in"} (1)
where {width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.25in"}= current decoded LTP
gain,{width="0.5in" height="0.25in"}= LTP gain used for the last good subframe
(BFI = 0), and
{width="1.8888888888888888in" height="0.5277777777777778in"} (2)
where {width="0.19375in" height="0.25in"}= current decoded fixed codebook gain
and {width="0.4861111111111111in" height="0.25in"}= fixed codebook gain used
for the last good subframe (BFI = 0).
The rest of the received speech parameters are used normally in the speech
synthesis. The current frame of speech parameters is saved.
### 6.2.3 BFI = 1, prevBFI = 0 or 1, State = 1...6
An error is detected in the received speech frame and the substitution and
muting procedure is started. The LTP gain and fixed codebook gain are replaced
by attenuated values from the previous subframes:
{width="5.722222222222222in" height="0.5555555555555556in"} (3)
where {width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.25in"}= current decoded LTP
gain, {width="1.4166666666666667in" height="0.25in"}= LTP gains used for the
last n subframes, _median5()_ = 5-point median operation, _P(state)_ =
attenuation factor (_P(1)_ = 0.98, _P(2)_ = 0.98, _P(3)_ = 0.8, _P(4)_ = 0.3,
_P(5)_ = 0.2, _P(6)_ = 0.2), _state_ = state number, and
{width="5.652777777777778in" height="0.5555555555555556in"} (4)
where {width="0.19375in" height="0.25in"}= current decoded fixed codebook
gain, {width="1.2361111111111112in" height="0.25in"}= fixed codebook gains
used for the last n subframes, _median5()_ = 5-point median operation,
_C(state)_ = attenuation factor (_C(1)_ = 0.98, _C(2)_ = 0.98, _C(3)_ = 0.98,
_C(4)_ = 0.98, _C(5)_ = 0.98, _C(6)_ =__ 0.7), and _state_ =__ state number.
The higher the state value is, the more the gains are attenuated. Also the
memory of the predictive fixed codebook gain is updated by using the average
value of the past four values in the memory:
{width="1.6388888888888888in" height="0.4722222222222222in"} (5)
The past LSFs are shifted towards their mean:
{width="4.958333333333333in" height="0.2361111111111111in"} (6)
where α = 0.95, _lsf_q1_ and _lsf_q2_ are two sets of LSF-vectors for current
frame, _past_lsf_q_ is _lsf_q2_ from the previous frame, and _mean_lsf_ is the
average LSF-vector. Note that two sets of LSFs are available only in the 12.2
mode.
#### 6.2.3.1 LTP-lag update
The LTP-lag values are replaced by the past value from the 4th subframe of the
previous frame (12.2 mode) or slightly modified values based on the last
correctly received value (all other modes).
#### 6.2.3.2 Innovation sequence
The received fixed codebook innovation pulses from the erroneous frame are
used in the state in which they were received when corrupted data are received
. In the case when no data were received random fixed codebook indices should
be employed.
## 6.3 Assumed Non-Active Speech Signal Error Concealment Unit Actions
### 6.3.1 General
The Non-Active Speech ECU is used to reduce the negative impact of amplitude
variations and tonal artefacts when using the conventional Active Speech ECU
in non-voiced signals such as background noise and unvoiced speech. The
background ECU actions are only used for the lower rate Speech Coding modes.
The Non-Active Speech ECU actions are done as postprocessing actions of the
Active Speech ECU, actions thus ensuring that the Active Speech ECU states are
continuously updated. This will guarantee instant and seamless switching to
the Active Speech ECU. The detectors and state updates have to be running
continuously for all speech coding modes to avoid switching problems.
Only the differences to the Active Speech ECU are stated below.
### 6.3.2 Detectors
#### 6.3.2.1 Background detector
An energy level and energy change detector is used to monitor the signal. If
the signal is considered to contain background noise and only shows minor
energy level changes, a flag is set. The resulting indicator is the
**inBackgroundNoise** flag which indicates the signal state of the previous
frame.
#### 6.3.2.2 Voicing detector
The received LTP gain is monitored and used to prevent the use of the
background ECU actions in possibly voiced segments. A median filtered LTP gain
value with a varying filter memory length is thresholded to provide the
correct voicing decision. Additionally, a counter **voicedHangover** is used
to monitor the time since a frame was presumably voiced.
### 6.3.3 Background ECU Actions
The BFI, and DFI indications are used together with the flag
**inBackgroundNoise** and the counter **voicedHangover** to adjust the LTP
part and the innovation part of the excitation. The actions are only taken if
the previous frame has been classified as background noise and sufficient time
has passed since the last voiced frame was detected.
The background ECU actions are: energy control of the excitation signal,
relaxed LTP lag control, stronger limitation of the LTP gain, adjusted
adaptation of the Gain-Contour-Smoothing algorithm and modified adaptation of
the Anti-Sparseness Procedure.
## 6.4 Substitution and muting of lost SID frames
In the speech decoder a single frame classified as SID_BAD shall be
substituted by the last valid SID frame information and the procedure for
valid SID frames be applied. If the time between SID information updates
(updates are specified by SID_UPDATE arrivals and occasionally by SID_FIRST
arrivals see 06.92) is greater than one second this shall lead to attenuation.
# 7 Example ECU/BFH Solution 2
This is an alternative example solution which is a simplified version of
Example ECU/BFH Solution 1.
## 7.1 State Machine
This example solution for substitution and muting is based on a state machine
with seven states (Figure 1, same state machine as in Example 1).
The system starts in state 0. Each time a bad frame is detected, the state
counter is incremented by one and is saturated when it reaches 6. Each time a
good speech frame is detected, the state counter is reset to zero, except when
we are in state 6, where we set the state counter to 5\. The state indicates
the quality of the channel: the larger the state counter, the worse the
channel quality is. The control flow of the state machine can be described by
the following C code (**BFI** = bad frame indicator, **State** = state
variable):
**if(BFI != 0 )**
**State = State + 1;**
**else if(State == 6)**
**State = 5;**
**else**
**State = 0;**
**if(State > 6 )**
**State = 6;**
In addition to this state machine, the **Bad Frame Flag** from the previous
frame is checked (**prevBFI**). The processing depends on the value of the
**State** -variable. In states 0 and 5, the processing depends also on the two
flags **BFI** and **prevBFI**.
## 7.2 Substitution and muting of lost speech frames
### 7.2.1 BFI = 0, prevBFI = 0, State = 0
No error is detected in the received or in the previous received speech frame.
The received speech parameters are used normally in the speech synthesis. The
current frame of speech parameters is saved.
### 7.2.2 BFI = 0, prevBFI = 1, State = 0 or 5
No error is detected in the received speech frame but the previous received
speech frame was bad. The LTP gain and fixed codebook gain are limited below
the values used for the last received good subframe:
{width="1.94375in" height="0.5277777777777778in"} (7)
where {width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.25in"}= current decoded LTP
gain,{width="0.5in" height="0.25in"}= LTP gain used for the last good subframe
(BFI = 0), and
{width="1.8888888888888888in" height="0.5277777777777778in"} (8)
where {width="0.19375in" height="0.25in"}= current decoded fixed codebook-gain
and {width="0.4861111111111111in" height="0.25in"}= fixed codebook gain used
for the last good subframe (BFI = 0).
The rest of the received speech parameters are used normally in the speech
synthesis. The current frame of speech parameters is saved.
### 7.2.3 BFI = 1, prevBFI = 0 or 1, State = 1...6
An error is detected in the received speech frame and the substitution and
muting procedure is started. The LTP gain and fixed codebook gain are replaced
by attenuated values from the previous subframes:
{width="5.722222222222222in" height="0.5555555555555556in"} (9)
where {width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.25in"}= current decoded LTP
gain, {width="1.4166666666666667in" height="0.25in"}= LTP gains used for the
last n subframes, _median5()_ = 5-point median operation, _P(state)_ =
attenuation factor (_P(1)_ = 0.98, _P(2)_ = 0.98, _P(3)_ = 0.8, _P(4)_ = 0.3,
_P(5)_ = 0.2, _P(6)_ = 0.2), _state_ = state number, and
{width="5.652777777777778in" height="0.5555555555555556in"} (10)
where {width="0.19375in" height="0.25in"}= current decoded fixed codebook
gain, {width="1.2361111111111112in" height="0.25in"}= fixed codebook gains
used for the last n subframes, _median5()_ = 5-point median operation,
_C(state)_ = attenuation factor (_C(1)_ = 0.98, _C(2)_ = 0.98, _C(3)_ = 0.98,
_C(4)_ = 0.98, _C(5)_ = 0.98, _C(6)_ =__ 0.7), and _state_ =__ state number.
The higher the state value is, the more the gains are attenuated. Also the
memory of the predictive fixed codebook gain is updated by using the average
value of the past four values in the memory:
{width="1.6388888888888888in" height="0.4722222222222222in"} (11)
The past LSFs are used by shifting their values towards their mean:
{width="4.958333333333333in" height="0.2361111111111111in"} (12)
where α = 0.95, _lsf_q1_ and _lsf_q2_ are two sets of LSF-vectors for current
frame, _past_lsf_q_ is _lsf_q2_ from the previous frame, and _mean_lsf_ is the
average LSF-vector. Note that two sets of LSFs are available only in the 12.2
mode.
#### 7.2.3.1 LTP-lag update
The LTP-lag values are replaced by the past value from the 4th subframe of the
previous frame (12.2 mode) or slightly modified values based on the last
correctly received value (all other modes).
### 7.2.4 Innovation sequence
The received fixed codebook innovation pulses from the erroneous frame are
used in the state in which they were received when corrupted data are
received. In the case when no data were received random fixed codebook indices
should be employed.
## 7.3 Substitution and muting of lost SID frames
In the speech decoder a single frame classified as SID_BAD shall be
substituted by the last valid SID frame information and the procedure for
valid SID frames be applied. If the time between SID information updates
(updates are specified by SID_UPDATE arrivals and occasionally by SID_FIRST
arrivals) is greater than one second this shall lead to attenuation.
#