# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document specifies minimum performance requirements for the
acoustic characteristics of 3G terminals when used to provide narrow-band or
wideband telephony.
The objective for narrow-band services is to reach a quality as close as
possible to ITU-T standards for PSTN circuits. However, due to technical and
economic factors, there cannot be full compliance with the general
characteristics of international telephone connections and circuits
recommended by the ITU-T.
The performance requirements are specified the main body of the text; the test
methods and considerations are described in TS 26.132.
# 1 Scope
The present document is applicable to any terminal capable of supporting
narrow-band or wideband telephony, either as a stand-alone service or as the
telephony component of a multimedia service. The present document specifies
minimum performance requirements for the acoustic characteristics of 3G
terminals when used to provide narrow-band or wideband telephony.
The set of minimum performance requirements enables a guaranteed level of
speech quality while taking possible physical limits of the terminal design
into account. Some performance objectives are also defined, if such design
limits can be overcome. Care must be taken in applying performance objectives
in isolation, not to degrade overall end-user speech quality.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 26.132: \"Narrow-band speech telephony terminal acoustic
characteristics - test methods\".
[2] ITU-T Recommendation B.12 (1988): \"Use of the decibel and the neper in
telecommunications\"
[3] ITU-T Recommendation G.103 (1998): \"Hypothetical reference connections\".
[4] ITU-T Recommendation G.111 (1993): \"Loudness ratings (LRs) in an
international connection\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation G.121 (1993): \"Loudness ratings (LRs) of national
systems\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation G.122 (1993): \"Influence of national systems on
stability, talker echo, and listener echo in international connections\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation G.711 1988): \"Pulse code modulation (PCM) of voice
frequencies\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation P.11 (1993): \"Effect of transmission impairments\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation P. 380 (2003): \"Electro-acoustic measurements on
headsets\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation P.50 (1993): \"Artificial voices\".
[11] ITU-T Recommendation P.79 (1999) with Annex G (2001): \"Calculation of
loudness ratings for telephone sets\".
[12] ITU‑T Recommendation G.223: \"Assumptions for the calculation of noise on
hypothetical reference circuits for telephony\".
[13] ITU-T Recommendations P.340: \"Transmission characteristics of hands-free
telephones\".
[14] ITU-T Recommendation P.501: \"Test signals for use in telephonometry\".
[15] ITU-T Recommendation P.502: \"Objective test methods for speech
communication systems using complex test signals\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document the term _narrow-band_ shall refer to
signals sampled at 8kHz; _wideband_ shall refer to signals sampled at 16kHz.
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms: dB, dBr, dBm0,
dBm0p and dBA, shall be interpreted as defined in ITU-T Recommendation B.12;
the term dBPa shall be interpreted as the sound pressure level relative to 1
Pascal expressed in dB (0dBPa is equivalent to 94dB SPL).
A 3GPP softphone is a telephony system running on a general purpose computer
or PDA complying with the 3GPP terminal acoustic requirements (TS 26.131 and
26.132).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ADC Analogue to Digital Converter
DAC Digital to Analogue Converter
DAI Digital Audio Interface
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
EEC Electrical Echo Control
EL Echo Loss
ERP Ear Reference Point
HATS Head and Torso Simulator
LSTR Listener Sidetone Rating
LRGP Loudness Rating Guardring Position
MRP Mouth Reference Point
OLR Overall Loudness Rating
PCM Pulse Code Modulation
PDA Personal Digital Assistant
POI Point of Interconnection (with PSTN)
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network
RLR Receive Loudness Rating
SLR Send Loudness Rating
STMR Sidetone Masking Rating
SS System Simulator
TX Transmission
UE User Equipment
UPCMI 13-bit Uniform PCM Interface
# 4 Interfaces
The interfaces required to define terminal acoustic characteristics are shown
in figure 1. These are the air interface and the point of interconnect (POI).
The Air Interface is specified by the 3G 25 series specifications and is
required to achieve user equipment (UE) transportability. Analogue
measurements can be made at this point using a system simulator (SS)
comprising the appropriate radio terminal equipment and speech transcoder. The
losses and gains introduced by the test speech transcoder will need to be
specified.
The POI with the public switched telephone network (PSTN) is considered to
have a relative level of 0 dBr, where signals will be represented by 8-bit
A-law, according to ITU-T Recommendation G.711. Analogue measurements may be
made at this point using a standard send and receive side, as defined in ITU-T
Recommendations.
Five classes of acoustic interface are considered in this specification:
\- Handset UE including softphone UE used as a handset;
\- Headset UE including softphone UE used with headset;
\- Desktop-mounted hands-free UE including softphone UE with external
loudspeaker(s) used in handsfree mode;
\- Vehicle-mounted hands-free UE including softphone UE mounted in a vehicle;
\- Handheld hands-free UE including softphone UE with internal loudspeaker(s)
used in handsfree mode.
(See definition of softphone in Clause 3.1)
NOTE: The requirements and performance objectives for a softphone UE shall be
derived according to the following rules:
\- When using a softphone UE as a handset: requirements and performance
objectives shall correspond to handset mode.
\- When using a softphone UE with headset: requirements and performance
objectives shall correspond to headset mode.
\- When a softphone UE is mounted in a vehicle: requirements and performance
objectives shall correspond to Vehicle-mounted handsfree mode.
\- When using a softphone UE in handsfree mode:
\- When using internal loudspeaker(s), requirements and performance objectives
shall correspond to handheld hands-free.
\- When using external loudspeaker(s), requirements and performance objectives
shall correspond to desktop-mounted hands-free.
# 5 Narrow-band telephony transmission performance
## 5.1 Applicability
The performance requirements in this sub-clause shall apply when UE is used to
provide narrow-band telephony, either as a stand-alone service, or as part of
a multimedia service.
## 5.2 Overall loss/loudness ratings
### 5.2.1 General
An international connection involving a 3G network and the PSTN should meet
the overall loudness rating (OLR) limits in ITU-T Recommendation G.111. The
national parts of the connection should therefore meet the send and receive
loudness rating (SLR, RLR) limits in ITU-T Recommendation G.121.
For the case where digital routings are used to connect the 3G network to the
international chain of circuits, the SLR and RLR of the national extension
will be largely determined by the SLR and RLR of the 3G network. The limits
given below are consistent with the national extension limits and long term
objectives in ITU-T Recommendation G.121.
The SLR and RLR values for the 3G network apply up to the POI. However, the
main determining factors are the characteristics of the UE, including the
analogue to digital conversion (ADC) and digital to analogue conversion (DAC).
In practice, it is convenient to specify loudness ratings to the Air
Interface. For the normal case, where the 3G network introduces no additional
loss between the Air Interface and the POI, the loudness ratings to the PSTN
boundary (POI) will be the same as the loudness ratings measured at the Air
Interface. However, in some cases loss adjustment may be needed for
interworking situations in individual countries.
### 5.2.2 Connections with handset UE
The nominal values of SLR/RLR to the POI shall be:
SLR = 8 +/- 3 dB;
RLR = 2 +/- 3 dB.
Where a user controlled receiving volume control is provided, the RLR shall
meet the selected nominal value for at least one setting of the control. When
the control is set to maximum, the RLR shall not be less than (louder than)
-13 dB.
With the volume control set to the minimum position the RLR shall not be
greater than (quieter than) 18 dB.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
NOTE: The mechanical design of some UE may make it impossible to seal the ear-
piece to the knife edge of the ITU-T artificial ear. Minimal additional
methods may be used to provide the seal provided that they do not affect the
mounting position of the UE with respect to the Mouth Reference Point and the
Ear Reference Point.
### 5.2.3 Connections with Desktop and Vehicle-mounted hands-free UE
The nominal values of SLR/RLR to/from the POI shall be:
SLR = 13 +/- 4 dB;
RLR = 2 +/- 4 dB.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
Where a user controlled volume control is provided, the RLR shall meet the
nominal value at one setting of the control. It is recommended that a volume
control giving at least 15 dB increase from the nominal RLR (louder) is
provided for hands-free units intended to work in the vehicle environment.
This is to allow for the increased noise volume in a moving vehicle.
### 5.2.4 Connections with handheld hands-free UE
The nominal values of SLR/RLR to/from the POI shall be:
SLR = 13 +/- 4 dB;
RLR = 6 +12 / - 4 dB.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
Where a user controlled volume control is provided, the RLR shall meet the
nominal value at one setting of the control.
### 5.2.5 Connections with headset UE
The SLR and RLR should be measured and computed using methods given in ITU-T
Recommendation P.38. This Recommendation currently gives a measuring technique
for supra-aural earphone and insert type receivers. Study is continuing on
other types of ear-pieces in ITU-T Study Group 12
The nominal values of SLR/RLR to/from the POI shall be:
SLR = 8 +/- 3 dB;
RLR = 2 +/- 3 dB with any volume control set to mid position.
Where a user controlled receiving volume control is provided, the RLR shall
meet the selected nominal value for at least one setting of the control. When
the control is set to maximum, the RLR shall not be less than (louder than)
-13 dB.
With the volume control set to the minimum position the RLR shall not be
greater than (quieter than) 18 dB.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
## 5.3 Idle channel noise (handset and headset UE)
### 5.3.1 Sending
The maximum noise level produced by the apparatus at the output of the SS
under silent conditions in the sending direction shall not exceed -64 dBm0p.
NOTE 1: This level includes the eventual noise contribution of an acoustic
echo canceller under the condition that no signal is received.
NOTE 2: This figure applies to the wideband noise signal. It is recommended
that the level of single frequency disturbances should be 10 dB lower (ITU-T
Recommendation P.11).
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 5.3.2 Receiving
The maximum (acoustic) noise level at the handset and headset UE when no
signal is applied to the input of the SS shall be as follows:
If no user‑controlled receiving volume control is provided, or, if it is
provided, at the setting of the user‑controlled receiving volume control at
which the RLR is equal to the nominal value, the noise measured at the ear
reference point (ERP) contributed by the receiving equipment alone shall not
exceed -57 dB Pa(A).
Where a volume control is provided, the measured noise shall also not exceed
-54 dB Pa(A) at the maximum setting of the volume control.
NOTE: In a connection with the PSTN, noise conditions as described in ITU-T
Recommendation G.103 can be expected at the input (POI) of the 3G network. The
characteristics of this noise may be influenced by the speech transcoding
process (for further study).
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
## 5.4 Sensitivity/frequency characteristics
### 5.4.1 Handset and headset UE sending
The sensitivity/frequency characteristics shall be as follows:
The sending sensitivity frequency response, measured either from the mouth
reference point (MRP) to digital interface or from the MRP to the SS audio
output (digital output of the reference speech decoder of the SS), shall be
within a mask, which can be drawn between the points given in table 1. The
mask is drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 1 on a
logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 1: Sending sensitivity/frequency mask
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit Lower limit 100 ‑12 ‑ 200 0 ‑ 300 0 ‑12 1 000 0 ‑6
2 000 4 ‑6 3 000 4 ‑6 3 400 4 ‑9 4 000 0  
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 5.4.2 Handset and headset UE receiving
The sensitivity/frequency characteristics shall be as follows:
The receiving sensitivity frequency response, measured either from the digital
interface to the ERP or from the SS audio input (analogue or digital input of
the reference speech encoder of the SS) to the ERP, shall be within a mask,
which can be drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 2
on a logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale. The values in
table 2 are provisional and are for further study.
Table 2: Receiving sensitivity/frequency mask
+-------------------------------+-----------------+------------------+ | Frequency (Hz) | Upper limit | Lower limit | +-------------------------------+-----------------+------------------+ | 100 | 6 | - | +-------------------------------+-----------------+------------------+ | 200 | 6 | - | +-------------------------------+-----------------+------------------+ | 300 | 6 | -6 | +-------------------------------+-----------------+------------------+ | 1000 | 6 | -6 | +-------------------------------+-----------------+------------------+ | 2000 | 8 | -6 | +-------------------------------+-----------------+------------------+ | [3400]{.underline} | [8]{.underline} | [-6]{.underline} | +-------------------------------+-----------------+------------------+ | 4 000 | 8 | - | +-------------------------------+-----------------+------------------+ | NOTE 1: All sensitivity | | | | values are expressed in dB on | | | | an arbitrary scale. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The limit at | | | | intermediate frequencies lies | | | | on a straight line drawn | | | | between the given values on a | | | | log (frequency) - linear (dB) | | | | scale. | | | +-------------------------------+-----------------+------------------+
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 5.4.3 Desktop and Vehicle-mounted hands-free UE sending
The sending sensitivity frequency response from the MRP to the SS audio output
(digital output of the reference speech decoder of the SS) shall be as
follows:
The sending sensitivity frequency response shall be within the mask which can
be drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 3 on a
logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 3: Hands-free sending sensitivity/frequency response
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit Lower limit 200 0  
250 0  
315 0 ‑14 400 0 ‑13 500 0 ‑12 630 0 ‑11 800 0 ‑10 1 000 0 ‑8 1 300 2 ‑8 1 600
3 ‑8 2 000 4 ‑8 2 500 4 ‑8 3 100 4 ‑8 4 000 0  
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 5.4.4 Desktop and Vehicle-mounted hands-free UE receiving
The receiving sensitivity frequency response from the SS audio input (analogue
or digital input of the reference speech encoder of the SS) to the ERP shall
be as follows:
The receiving sensitivity frequency response shall be within the mask which
can be drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 4 on a
logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 4: Hands-free receiving sensitivity/frequency response
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit Lower limit 200 0  
250 0  
315 0 ‑15 400 0 ‑12 500 0 ‑12 630 0 ‑12 800 0 ‑12 1 000 0 ‑12 1 300 0 ‑12 1
600 0 ‑12 2 000 0 ‑12 2 500 0 ‑12 3 100 0 ‑12 4 000 0  
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 5.4.5 Handheld hands-free UE sending
The sending sensitivity frequency response from the MRP to the SS audio output
(digital output of the reference speech decoder of the SS) shall be as
follows:
The sending sensitivity frequency response shall be within the mask which can
be drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 5 on a
logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 5: Hands-free sending sensitivity/frequency response
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit Lower limit 200 0  
250 0  
315 0 ‑14 400 0 ‑13 500 0 ‑12 630 0 ‑11 800 0 ‑10 1 000 0 ‑8 1 300 2 ‑8 1 600
3 ‑8 2 000 4 ‑8 2 500 4 ‑8 3 100 4 ‑8 4 000 0  
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 5.4.6 Handheld hands-free UE receiving
The receiving sensitivity frequency response from the SS audio input (analogue
or digital input of the reference speech encoder of the SS) to the ERP shall
be as follows:
The receiving sensitivity frequency response shall be within the mask which
can be drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 6 on a
logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 6: Hands-free receiving sensitivity/frequency response
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit Lower limit 200 0  
250 0  
315 0  
400 0  
500 0  
630 0  
800 0 ‑12 1 000 0 ‑12 1 300 0 ‑12 1 600 0 ‑12 2 000 0 ‑12 2 500 0 ‑12 3 100 0
‑12 4 000 0  
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
## 5.5 Sidetone characteristics (handset and headset UE)
### 5.5.1 Sidetone loss
If the LRGP method is used as described in 3GPP TS 26.132, then the talker
sidetone masking rating (STMR) shall be 18 ±5 dB.
If the HATS method is used as described in 3GPP TS 26.132, then the talker
sidetone masking rating (STMR) shall be 18 ±5 dB for nominal setting of the
volume control. For all other positions of the volume control, the STMR must
not be below 8 dB.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
NOTE: Where a user controlled receiving volume control is provided , it is
recommended that the sidetone loss is independent of the volume control
setting.
NOTE: In case of a binaural headset UE where both ear canals are blocked (such
as for some headsets of insert type), it is recommended to provide a sidetone
path in the terminal.
## 5.6 Stability loss
The stability loss presented to the PSTN by the 3G network at the POI should
meet the principles of the requirements in clauses 2 and 3 of ITU-T
Recommendation G.122. These requirements will be met if the attenuation
between the digital input and digital output at the POI is at least 6 dB at
all frequencies in the range 200 Hz to 4 kHz under the worst case acoustic
conditions at the UE (any acoustic echo control should be enabled). For the
normal case of digital connection between the Air Interface and the POI, the
stability requirement can be applied at the Air Interface.
The worst case acoustic conditions will be as follows (with any volume control
set to maximum):
> **Handset UE:** the handset lying on, and the transducers facing, a hard
> surface with the ear-piece uncapped.
>
> **Headset UE:** for further study
>
> **Handsfree UE:** no requirement other than echo loss.
NOTE: The test procedure must take into account the switching effects of echo
control and discontinuous transmission (DTX).
## 5.7 Acoustic echo control
### 5.7.1 General
The echo loss (EL) presented by the 3G network at the POI should be at least
46 dB during single talk. This value takes into account the fact that UE is
likely to be used in a wide range of noise environments.
The use of acoustic echo control is not mandated for 3G networks and the
connection between the UE and the POI is zero loss. Therefore the acoustic
echo control provided in UE should provide a TCLw of at least 46 dB at the POI
over the likely range of acoustic end delays.
If acoustic echo control is provided by voice switching, comfort noise should
be injected. This comfort noise shall operate in the same way to that used in
DTX.
### 5.7.2 Acoustic echo control in an Desktop and Vehicle-mounted hands-free
UE
The TCLw for the handsfree UE shall be at least 40 dB at the nominal setting
of the volume control in quiet background conditions and at least 33 dB at the
maximum user selectable volume control setting. If acoustic echo control is
provided using some form of echo cancellation technique, the cancellation
algorithm should be designed to cope with the expected reverberation and
dispersion. In the case of the hands-free UE, this reverberation and
dispersion may be time variant. Compliance with this requirement shall be
checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 5.7.3 Acoustic echo control in an handheld hands-free UE
The TCLw for the hands-free UE shall be at least 40 dB at the nominal setting
of the volume control in quiet background conditions and at least 33 dB at the
maximum user selectable volume control setting. If acoustic echo control is
provided using some form of echo cancellation technique, the cancellation
algorithm should be designed to cope with the expected reverberation and
dispersion. In the case of the hands-free UE, this reverberation and
dispersion may be time variant. Compliance with this requirement shall be
checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 5.7.4 Acoustic echo control in a handset UE
The TCLw for the handset UE shall be at least 46 dB. Careful acoustic design
of the handset body and selection of the mouth and ear piece transducers may
facilitate the required acoustic echo loss without the need for active echo
control techniques. However, should echo cancellation be employed the echo
canceller should be capable of dealing with the variations in handset
positions when in normal use. The implications of this are under study.
Compliance with this requirement shall be checked by the relevant test
described in TS 26.132.
### 5.7.5 Acoustic echo control in a headset UE
The TCLw for a headset UE shall be 46 dB. Due to the obstacle effect of the
head in this type of terminal, careful design might mean that no active echo
control is necessary.
## 5.8 Distortion
### 5.8.1 Sending Distortion
The sending part shall meet the following distortion requirements:
NOTE: Digital signal processing other than the transcoder itself is included
in this requirement (e.g. echo cancelling).
Distortion shall be measured between MRP and the SS audio output (output of
the reference speech decoder of the SS). The ratio of signal‑to‑total
distortion power measured with the proper noise weighting (see table 4 of
ITU‑T Recommendation G.223) shall be above the limits given in table 7 unless
the sound pressure at MRP exceeds +10 dBPa.
Table 7: Limits for signal‑to‑total distortion ratio
* * *
Sending level dB relative to ARL Sending Ratio (dB)
-25 26.6 ‑20 30,7 ‑10 33,3 0 33,7 +7 31,7 +10 25,5
* * *
Limits for intermediate levels are found by drawing straight lines between the
breaking points in the table on a linear (dB signal level) ‑ linear (dB ratio)
scale.
Compliance of the sending distortion shall be checked by the test described in
TS 26.132.
### 5.8.2 Receiving
The receiving part between the SS audio input (input of the reference speech
encoder of the SS) and ERP shall meet the requirements at the nominal setting
of the volume control:
The ratio of signal‑to‑total distortion power measured with the proper noise
weighting (see table 4 of ITU-T Recommendation G.223) shall be above the
limits given in table 8 when the sound pressure at ERP is up to +10 dBPa. For
sound pressures exceeding +10 dBPa at the ERP there is no distortion
requirement.
Table 8: Limits for signal‑to‑total distortion ratio
* * *
Receiving level at the digital interface (dBm0) Receiving Ratio (dB) ‑45 17,5
‑40 22,5 ‑30 30,5 ‑20 33,0 ‑10 33,5 ‑3 31,2 0 25,5
* * *
Limits for intermediate levels are found by drawing straight lines between the
breaking points in the table on a linear (dB signal level) ‑ linear (dB ratio)
scale.
Compliance of the receiving distortion shall be checked by the appropriate
test method in TS 26.132.
## 5.9 Ambient Noise Rejection
Handset and Headset UE:
The nature of mobile telephony is such that the UE will typically be operated
in high ambient acoustic noise. Due to the adverse interaction of noise
signals with speech codecs operating at lower rates, for example 8kbit/s or
less, a minimum noise rejection specification is required.
The UE ambient noise rejection ANR, calculated as a Single Figure DELSM
(SFDELSM) shall be greater than or equal to the nominal value of 0dB. Due to
the uncertainty inherent in the measurement method for ANR, a 3dB tolerance is
allowed on the nominal value.
For good performance, it is recommended that a figure of +3 dB should be
achieved.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in 3GPP TS 26.132.
Hands-free UE (all categories):
No requirement in hands-free operations.
NOTE 1: Includes DTX functionality.\ NOTE 2: Connection to PSTN should include
electrical echo control (EEC).
Figure 1: 3G Interfaces for specification and testing of terminal narrow-band
acoustic characteristics
## 5.10 Information on other Parameters (not normative)
Information about additional parameters relevant to speech quality e.g. for
terminals where signal processing is used can be found in ITU-T
Recommendations P.340, P.501 and P.502.
# 6 Wideband telephony transmission performance
## 6.1 Applicability
The performance requirements in this sub-clause shall apply when UE is used to
provide wideband telephony, either as a stand-alone service, or as part of a
multimedia service. The requirements in the clause apply only when the far-end
terminal is also providing wideband, and not narrow-band telephony. When a
wideband-enabled terminal is providing narrow-band telephony, the requirements
in clause 5, 'narrow-band telephony transmission performance' shall apply.
## 6.2 Overall loss/loudness ratings
### 6.2.1 General
An international connection involving a 3G network and the PSTN should meet
the overall loudness rating (OLR) limits in ITU-T Recommendation G.111. The
national parts of the connection should therefore meet the send and receive
loudness rating (SLR, RLR) limits in ITU-T Recommendation G.121.
For the case where digital routings are used to connect the 3G network to the
international chain of circuits, the SLR and RLR of the national extension
will be largely determined by the SLR and RLR of the 3G network. The limits
given below are consistent with the national extension limits and long term
objectives in ITU-T Recommendation G.121.
The SLR and RLR values for the 3G network apply up to the POI. However, the
main determining factors are the characteristics of the UE, including the
analogue to digital conversion (ADC) and digital to analogue conversion (DAC).
In practice, it is convenient to specify loudness ratings to the Air
Interface. For the normal case, where the 3G network introduces no additional
loss between the Air Interface and the POI, the loudness ratings to the PSTN
boundary (POI) will be the same as the loudness ratings measured at the Air
Interface. However, in some cases loss adjustment may be needed for
interworking situations in individual countries.
Requirements for wideband telephony are based on ITU-T Recommendations P. 311,
for handset user-equipment, and ITU-T Recommendation P. 341 for hands-free
user-equipment.
### 6.2.2 Connections with handset UE
The nominal values of SLR/RLR to the POI shall be:
SLR = 8 +/- 3 dB;
RLR = 2 +/- 3 dB.
Where a user controlled receiving volume control is provided, the RLR shall
meet the selected nominal value for at least one setting of the control. When
the control is set to maximum, the RLR shall not be less than (louder than)
-13 dB.
With the volume control set to the minimum position the RLR shall not be
greater than (quieter than) 18 dB.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
### 6.2.3 Connections with Desktop and Vehicle-mounted hands-free UE
The nominal values of SLR/RLR to/from the POI shall be:
SLR = 13 +/- 4 dB;
RLR = 2 +/- 4 dB.
Where a user controlled volume control is provided, the RLR shall meet the
nominal value at one setting of the control. It is recommended that a volume
control giving at least 15 dB increase from the nominal RLR (louder) is
provided for hands-free units intended to work in the vehicle environment.
This is to allow for the increased noise volume in a moving vehicle.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
### 6.2.4 Connections with handheld hands-free UE
The nominal values of SLR/RLR to/from the POI shall be:
SLR = 13 +/- 4 dB;
RLR = 15 +/- 3 dB.
Where a user controlled volume control is provided, the RLR shall meet the
selected nominal value for at least one setting of the control.
The value of RLR at maximum volume control shall be less than (louder) or
equal to 12 dB. As performance objective it is recommended that the RLR at
maximum volume control is less than (louder) or equal to 6 dB.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant tests described in TS 26.132.
### 6.2.5 Connections with headset UE
The SLR and RLR should be measured and computed using methods given in ITU-T
Recommendation P.38. This Recommendation currently gives a measuring technique
for supra-aural earphone and insert type receivers. Study is continuing on
other types of ear-pieces in ITU-T Study Group 12
The nominal values of SLR/RLR to/from the POI shall be:
SLR = 8 +/- 3 dB;
RLR = 2 +/- 3 dB
RLR (binaural headset) = 8 +/- 3 dB for each earphone
Where a user controlled receiving volume control is provided, the RLR shall
meet the selected nominal value for at least one setting of the control. When
the control is set to maximum, the RLR shall not be less than (louder than)
-13 dB. With the volume control set to the minimum position the RLR shall not
be greater than (quieter than) 24 dB.
## 6.3 Idle channel noise (handset and headset UE)
### 6.3.1 Sending
The maximum noise level produced by the apparatus at the output of the SS
under silent conditions in the sending direction shall not exceed -64 dBm0(A).
NOTE 1: This level includes the eventual noise contribution of an acoustic
echo canceller under the condition that no signal is received.
NOTE 2: This figure applies to the wideband noise signal. It is recommended
that the level of single frequency disturbances should be 10 dB lower (ITU-T
Recommendation P.11).
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 6.3.2 Receiving
#### 6.3.2.1 Receiving: total noise level
The maximum (acoustic) noise level at the handset and headset UE when no
signal is transmitted to the input of the SS shall be as follows:
If no user‑controlled receiving volume control is provided, or, if it is
provided, at the setting of the user‑controlled receiving volume control at
which the RLR is equal to the nominal value, the noise measured at the ear
reference point (ERP) contributed by the receiving equipment alone shall not
exceed -57 dBPa(A).
Where a volume control is provided, the measured noise shall also not exceed
-54 dBPa(A) at the maximum setting of the volume control.
NOTE: In a connection with the PSTN, noise conditions as described in ITU-T
Recommendation G.103 can be expected at the input (POI) of the 3G network. The
characteristics of this noise may be influenced by the speech transcoding
process (for further study).
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
#### 6.3.2.2 Receiving: noise level in 1/3-octave band
For the nominal volume control setting, the level in any 1/3^rd^ -octave band,
between 100 Hz and 10 kHz shall not exceed a value of -60 dBPa(A). As a
performance objective it is recommended that the level in any 1/3^rd^ -octave
band, between 100 Hz and 10 kHz does not exceed a value of -64 dBPa(A).
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
## 6.4 Sensitivity/frequency characteristics
In general it is recommended for all configurations to have a flat sending
frequency response.
### 6.4.1 Handset and headset UE sending
The sensitivity/frequency characteristics shall be as follows:
The sending sensitivity frequency response, measured either from the mouth
reference point (MRP) to digital interface or from the MRP to the SS audio
output (digital output of the reference speech decoder of the SS), shall be
within a mask, which can be drawn between the points given in table 9. The
mask is drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 1 on a
logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 9: Sending sensitivity/frequency mask
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit Lower limit 100 -6  
200 2  
300 2 -12 1 000 2 -6 2 000 4 -6 5 000 4 -6 6 300 4 -9 8 000 0  
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 6.4.2 Handset and headset UE receiving
The sensitivity/frequency characteristics shall be as follows:
The receiving sensitivity frequency response, measured either from the digital
interface to the ERP or from the SS audio input (analogue or digital input of
the reference speech encoder of the SS) to the ERP, shall be within a mask,
which can be drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 10
on a logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 10: Receiving sensitivity/frequency mask
+----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | Frequency (Hz) | Upper limit | Lower limit | | | | | | | 8 +/-2 N | 8 +/-2 N | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 100 | 6 | | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 200 | 6 | -10 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 300 | 6 | -6 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 000 | 6 | -6 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 000 | 8 | -6 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 000 | 8 | -6 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 6 300 | 8 | -12 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | 8 000 | 8 | | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: All sensitivity values are | | | | expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The limit at intermediate | | | | frequencies lies on a straight line | | | | drawn between the given values on a | | | | log (frequency) - linear (dB) scale. | | | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 6.4.3 Desktop and Vehicle-mounted hands-free UE sending
The sending sensitivity frequency response from the MRP to the SS audio output
(digital output of the reference speech decoder of the SS) shall be as
follows:
The sending sensitivity frequency response shall be within the mask which can
be drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 11 on a
logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 11: Desktop and Vehicle-mounted hands-free sending sensitivity/frequency
response
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit Lower limit 100 -6  
200 2  
300 2 -12 1 000 2 ‑6 2 000 4 ‑6 5000 4 ‑6 6300 4 ‑9 8000 0  
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 6.4.4 Desktop and Vehicle-mounted hands-free UE receiving
The receiving sensitivity frequency response from the SS audio input (analogue
or digital input of the reference speech encoder of the SS) to the ERP shall
be as follows:
The receiving sensitivity frequency response shall be within the mask which
can be drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 12 on a
logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 12: Hands-free receiving sensitivity/frequency response
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit Lower limit 200 0  
315 0 -15 400 0 ‑12 500 0 ‑12 630 0 ‑12 800 0 ‑12 1 000 0 ‑12 1 300 0 ‑12 1
600 0 ‑12 2 000 0 ‑12 2 500 0 ‑12 6 300 0 ‑12 8 000 0  
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
It is recommended that the receiving sensitivity frequency response be within
the mask which can be drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in
table 12.a on a logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 12.a: Performance objective for hands-free receiving
sensitivity/frequency response
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit Lower limit 100 0  
200 0 -18 250 0 -15 315 0 ‑12 400 0 ‑12 500 0 ‑12 630 0 ‑12 800 0 ‑12 1 000 0
‑12 1 300 0 ‑12 1 600 0 ‑12 2 000 0 ‑12 2 500 0 ‑12 6 300 0 -12 8 000 0
* * *
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 6.4.5 Handheld hands-free UE sending
The sending sensitivity frequency response from the MRP to the SS audio output
(digital output of the reference speech decoder of the SS) shall be as
follows:
The sending sensitivity frequency response shall be within the mask which can
be drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 13 on a
logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 13: Handheld hands-free sending sensitivity/frequency response
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit Lower limit 100 -6  
200 2  
300 2 -12 1 000 2 -6 2 000 4 -6 5 000 4 -6 6 300 4 -9 8 000 0  
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 6.4.6 Handheld hands-free UE receiving
The receiving sensitivity frequency response from the SS audio input (analogue
or digital input of the reference speech encoder of the SS) to the ERP shall
be as follows:
The receiving sensitivity frequency response shall be within the mask which
can be drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in table 14 on a
logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 14: Hands-free receiving sensitivity/frequency response
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit Lower limit 315 Hz 0  
400 Hz 0  
500 Hz 0  
630 Hz 0 -18 800 Hz 0 -12 4 000 Hz 0 -12 5 000 Hz 0 -15 6 300 Hz 0 -18 7 000
Hz 0  
8 000 Hz 0  
NOTE: All sensitivity values are expressed in dB on an arbitrary scale.
* * *
It is recommended that the receiving sensitivity frequency response be within
the mask which can be drawn with straight lines between the breaking points in
table 14.a on a logarithmic (frequency) - linear (dB sensitivity) scale.
Table 14.a: Performance objective for hands-free receiving
sensitivity/frequency response
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Upper limit Lower limit 315 Hz 0  
400 Hz 0 -18 500 Hz 0 -12 630 Hz 0 -12 800 Hz 0 -12 4 000 Hz 0 -12 5 000 Hz 0
-15 6 300 Hz 0 -18 7 000 Hz 0  
8 000 Hz 0
* * *
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
## 6.5 Sidetone characteristics (handset and headset UE)
### 6.5.1 Sidetone loss
The talker sidetone masking rating (STMR) shall be 18 ±5 dB for nominal
setting of the volume control. For all other positions of the volume control,
the STMR must not be below 8 dB.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
NOTE: Where a user controlled receiving volume control is provided , it is
recommended that the sidetone loss is independent of the volume control
setting.
NOTE: In case of a binaural headset UE where both ear canals are blocked (such
as for some headsets of insert type), it is recommended to provide a sidetone
path in the terminal.
### 6.5.2 Sidetone delay
It is recommended that the maximum sidetone delay be less than 10 ms, measured
in an echo-free setup.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
## 6.6 Stability loss
The stability loss presented to the PSTN by the 3G network at the POI should
meet the principles of the requirements in clauses 2 and 3 of ITU-T
Recommendation G.122. These requirements will be met if the attenuation
between the digital input and digital output at the POI is at least 6 dB at
all frequencies in the range 100 Hz to 8 kHz under the worst case acoustic
conditions at the UE (any acoustic echo control should be enabled). For the
normal case of digital connection between the Air Interface and the POI, the
stability requirement can be applied at the Air Interface.
The worst case acoustic conditions will be as follows (with any volume control
set to maximum):
> **Handset UE:** the handset lying on, and the transducers facing, a hard
> surface with the ear-piece uncapped.
>
> **Headset UE:** for further study
>
> **Handsfree UE:** no requirement other than echo loss.
NOTE: The test procedure must take into account the switching effects of echo
control and discontinuous transmission (DTX).
## 6.7 Acoustic echo control
### 6.7.1 General
The echo loss (EL) presented by the 3G network at the POI should be at least
46 dB during single talk. This value takes into account the fact that UE is
likely to be used in a wide range of noise environments.
The use of acoustic echo control is not mandated for 3G networks and the
connection between the UE and the POI is zero loss. Therefore the acoustic
echo control provided in UE should provide a TCLw of at least 46 dB at the POI
over the likely range of acoustic end delays.
If acoustic echo control is provided by voice switching, comfort noise should
be injected. This comfort noise shall operate in the same way to that used in
DTX.
### 6.7.2 Acoustic echo control in an Desktop and Vehicle-mounted hands-free
UE
The TCLw for the handsfree UE shall be at least 40 dB at the nominal setting
of the volume control in quiet background conditions and at least 33 dB at the
maximum user selectable volume control setting. If acoustic echo control is
provided using some form of echo cancellation technique, the cancellation
algorithm should be designed to cope with the expected reverberation and
dispersion. In the case of the hands-free UE, this reverberation and
dispersion may be time variant. Compliance with this requirement shall be
checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 6.7.3 Acoustic echo control in an handheld hands-free UE
The TCLw for the hands-free UE shall be at least 40 dB at the nominal setting
of the volume control in quiet background conditions and at least 33 dB at the
maximum user selectable volume control setting. If acoustic echo control is
provided using some form of echo cancellation technique, the cancellation
algorithm should be designed to cope with the expected reverberation and
dispersion. In the case of the hands-free UE, this reverberation and
dispersion may be time variant. Compliance with this requirement shall be
checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 6.7.4 Acoustic echo control in a handset UE
The TCLw for the handset UE shall be at least 46 dB for all settings of volume
control. Careful acoustic design of the handset body and selection of the
mouth and ear piece transducers may facilitate the required acoustic echo loss
without the need for active echo control techniques. However, should echo
cancellation be employed the echo canceller should be capable of dealing with
the variations in handset positions when in normal use. The implications of
this are under study. Compliance with this requirement shall be checked by the
relevant test described in TS 26.132.
### 6.7.5 Acoustic echo control in a headset UE
The TCLw for a headset UE shall be at least 46 dB for all settings of volume
control. Due to the obstacle effect of the head in this type of terminal,
careful design might mean that no active echo control is necessary.
## 6.8 Distortion
### 6.8.1 Sending Distortion
The sending part shall meet the following distortion requirements:
NOTE 1: Digital signal processing other than the transcoder itself is included
in this requirement (e.g. echo cancelling).
Distortion shall be measured between MRP and the SS audio output (output of
the reference speech decoder of the SS). The ratio of signal‑to‑total
distortion power measured with the proper noise weighting (see table 4 of
ITU‑T Recommendation G.223) shall be above the limits given in table 15.
NOTE 2: Frequencies from 315 Hz to 816 Hz do not apply to the hands-free UE
case, but only to handset and headset UE.
Table 15: Limits for signal‑to‑total distortion ratio
+-----------+-------------------+--------------------+ | Frequency | Sending level | Sending Ratio (dB) | | | | | | | (dBPa at the MRP) | | +-----------+-------------------+--------------------+ | 315 Hz | -4,7 | tbd | +-----------+-------------------+--------------------+ | 408 Hz | -4,7 | tbd | +-----------+-------------------+--------------------+ | 510 Hz | -4,7 | tbd | +-----------+-------------------+--------------------+ | 816 Hz | -4,7 | tbd | +-----------+-------------------+--------------------+ | 1020 Hz | -20 | tbd | | | | | | | -15 | tbd | | | | | | | -10 | tbd | | | | | | | -4,7 | tbd | | | | | | | 0 | tbd | | | | | | | +5 | tbd | +-----------+-------------------+--------------------+
Limits for intermediate levels are found by drawing straight lines between the
breaking points in the table on a linear (dB signal level) ‑ linear (dB ratio)
scale.
Compliance of the sending distortion shall be checked by the test described in
TS 26.132.
NOTE 3: The informative values for limits for signal-to-total distortion ratio
shown in Table 15a have been under consideration but are not in force.
Table 15a INFORMATIVE: Informative values for limits for signal to total
distortion ratio
+-----------+-------------------+--------------------+ | Frequency | Sending level | Sending Ratio (dB) | | | | | | | (dBPa at the MRP) | | +-----------+-------------------+--------------------+ | 315 Hz | -4,7 | 28 | +-----------+-------------------+--------------------+ | 408 Hz | -4,7 | 32 | +-----------+-------------------+--------------------+ | 510 Hz | -4,7 | 32 | +-----------+-------------------+--------------------+ | 816 Hz | -4,7 | 32 | +-----------+-------------------+--------------------+ | 1020 Hz | -20 | 27 | | | | | | | -15 | 30 | | | | | | | -10 | 33 | | | | | | | -4,7 | 35 | | | | | | | 0 | 35 | | | | | | | +5 | 30 | +-----------+-------------------+--------------------+
### 6.8.2 Receiving
The receiving part between the SS audio input (input of the reference speech
encoder of the SS) and ERP shall meet the requirements in this clause at the
nominal setting of the volume control (except when another volume is
specified):
The ratio of signal‑to‑total distortion power measured with the proper noise
weighting (see table 4 of ITU-T Recommendation G.223) shall be above the
limits given in table 16 when the sound pressure at ERP is up to +10 dBPa. For
sound pressures exceeding +10 dBPa at the ERP there is no distortion
requirement.
NOTE 1: Frequencies from 315 Hz to 816 Hz do not apply to the hands-free UE
case, but only to handset and headset UE.
Table 16: Limits for signal-to-total distortion ratio
+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Frequency | Receiving level | Receiving ratio | Receiving ratio | | | | | | | | at the digital | at nominal | at maximum | | | interface | volume setting | volume setting | | | (dBm0) | (dB) | (dB) | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 315 Hz | -16 | tbd | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 408 Hz | -16 | tbd | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 510 Hz | -16 | tbd | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 816 Hz | -16 | tbd | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 1020 Hz | -45 | tbd | tbd | | | | | | | | -40 | tbd | | | | | | | | | -30 | tbd | | | | | | | | | -20 | tbd | | | | | | | | | -16 | tbd | | | | | | | | | -10 | 33,5 | | | | | | | | | -3 | 31,5 | | | | | | | | | 0 | 25,5 | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
Limits for intermediate levels are found by drawing straight lines between the
breaking points in the table on a linear (dB signal level) ‑ linear (dB ratio)
scale.
Compliance of the receiving distortion shall be checked by the appropriate
method in TS 26.132.
NOTE 2: The informative values for limits for signal-to-total distortion ratio
shown in Table 16a have been under consideration but are not in force.
Table 16a INFORMATIVE: Informative values for limits for signal-to-total
distortion ratio
+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Frequency | Receiving level | Receiving ratio | Receiving ratio | | | | | | | | at the digital | at nominal | at maximum | | | interface | volume setting | volume setting | | | (dBm0) | (dB) | (dB) | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 315 Hz | -16 | 20 | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 408 Hz | -16 | 28 | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 510 Hz | -16 | 28 | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 816 Hz | -16 | 28 | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 1020 Hz | -45 | 17,5 | | | | | | | | | -40 | 22,5 | | | | | | | | | -30 | 30,5 | | | | | | | | | -20 | 33,0 | | | | | | | | | -16 | 33,5 | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
## 6.9 Ambient Noise rejection
**Handset and Headset UE:**
The nature of mobile telephony is such that the UE will typically be operated
in high ambient acoustic noise. Due to the adverse interaction of noise
signals with speech codecs operating at lower rates, for example 8kbit/s or
less, a minimum noise rejection specification is required.
The UE ambient noise rejection ANR, calculated as a Single Figure DELSM
(SFDELSM) shall be greater than or equal to 0 dB. For good performance, it is
recommended that a figure of +3 dB should be achieved. Due to the uncertainty
inherent in the measurement method for ANR, a 3dB tolerance is allowed on the
nominal value.
Compliance shall be checked by the relevant test described in TS 26.132.
**Hands-free UE (all categories):**
For further study.
#