# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
The present document is an introduction to the speech processing parts of the
wideband telephony speech service employing the Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband
(AMR-WB) speech coder within the 3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 1 Scope
The present document is an introduction to the speech processing parts of the
wideband telephony speech service employing the Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband
(AMR-WB) speech coder. A general overview of the speech processing functions
is given, with reference to the documents where each function is specified in
detail.
# 2 Normative references
This TS incorporates by dated and undated reference, provisions from other
publications. These normative references are cited at the appropriate places
in the text and the publications are listed hereafter. For dated references,
subsequent amendments to or revisions of any of these publications apply to
this TS only when incorporated in it by amendment or revision. For undated
references, the latest edition of the publication referred to applies.
[1] GSM 03.50 : \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2);
Transmission planning aspects of the speech service in the GSM Public Land
Mobile Network (PLMN) system\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.190 : "AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Transcoding functions\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.173 : "AMR Wideband Speech Codec; ANSI‑C code\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.174 : "AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Test sequences\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.193 : "AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Source Controlled Rate
operation\".
[6] 3GPP TS 26.194 : "AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Voice Activity Detection
(VAD)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.192 : "AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Comfort Noise Aspects\".
[8] 3GPP TS 26.191 : "AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Error Concealment of Lost
Frames.
[9] 3GPP TS 26.201 : "AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Frame Structure\".
[10] 3GPP TS 26.202 : "AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Interface to RAN\".
[11] 3GPP TR 26.976 : "Performance characterization of the Adaptive Multi-Rate
Wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Abbreviations
For the purposes of this TS, the following abbreviations apply:
ACELP Algebraic Code Excited Linear Prediction
AMR Adaptive Multi-Rate
AMR-WB Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband
BFI Bad Frame Indication
CHD Channel Decoder
CHE Channel Encoder
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
ITU-T International Telecommunication Union -- Telecommunication
standardisation sector (former CCITT)
PCM Pulse Code Modulation
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network
RX Receive
SCR Source Controlled Rate
SPD SPeech Decoder
SPE SPeech Encoder
TC Transcoder
TX Transmit
UE User Equipment (terminal)
# 4 General
The AMR-WB speech coder consists of the multi-rate speech coder, a source
controlled rate scheme including a voice activity detector and a comfort noise
generation system, and an error concealment mechanism to combat the effects of
transmission errors and lost packets.
The multi-rate speech coder is a single integrated speech codec with nine
source rates from 6.60 kbit/s to 23.85 kbit/s, and a low rate background noise
encoding mode. The speech coder is capable of switching its bit-rate every 20
ms speech frame upon command.
A reference configuration where the various speech processing functions are
identified is given in Figure 1. In this figure, the relevant specifications
for each function are also indicated.
In Figure 1, the audio parts including analogue to digital and digital to
analogue conversion are included, to show the complete speech path between the
audio input/output in the User Equipment (UE) and the digital interface of the
network. The detailed specification of the audio parts is not within the scope
of this document. These aspects are only considered to the extent that the
performance of the audio parts affect the performance of the speech
transcoder.
{width="6.655555555555556in" height="6.649305555555555in"}
Figure 1: Overview of audio processing functions
1) 8-bit A‑law or {width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.18055555555555555in"}-law PCM (ITU-T recommendation G.711), 8000
samples/s
2) 14‑bit uniform PCM, 16 000 samples/s
3) Voice Activity Detector (VAD) flag
4) Encoded speech frame, 50 frames/s, number of bits/frame depending on the
AMR-WB codec mode
5) Silence Descriptor (SID) frame.
6) TX_TYPE, 3 bits, indicates whether information bits are available and if
they are speech or SID information
7) Information bits delivered to the 3G AN
8) Information bits received from the 3G AN
9) RX_TYPE, the type of frame received quantized into three bits
10) Silence Descriptor (SID) flag
11) Time Alignment Flag (TAF), marks the position of the SID frame within the
SACCH multiframe
# 5 Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband speech codec transcoding functions
The adaptive multi-rate wideband speech codec is described in [2].
As shown in Figure 1, the speech encoder takes its input as a 14-bit uniform
Pulse Code Modulated (PCM) signal either from the audio part of the UE or from
the network side [TBD] or from the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN)
via an narrowband 13-bit A-law or -law to wideband 14-bit uniform PCM
conversion. An upsampling by factor of 2 has to be performed between
narrowband and wideband speech signals. The encoded speech at the output of
the speech encoder is packetized and delivered to the network interface. In
the receive direction, the inverse operations take place.
The detailed mapping between input blocks of 320 speech samples in 14-bit
uniform PCM format to encoded blocks (in which the number of bits depends on
the presently used codec mode) and from these to output blocks of 320
reconstructed speech samples is described in [2]. The coding scheme is Multi-
Rate Algebraic Code Excited Linear Prediction. The bit-rates of the source
codec are listed in Table 1.
An AMR-WB speech codec capable UE shall support all source rates listed in
Table 1.
Table 1: Source codec bit-rates for the AMR-WB codec
* * *
Codec mode Source codec bit-rate AMR-WB_23.85 23.85 kbit/s AMR-WB_23.05 23.05
kbit/s AMR-WB_19.85 19.85 kbit/s AMR-WB_18.25 18.25 kbit/s AMR-WB_15.85 15.85
kbit/s AMR-WB_14.25 14.25 kbit/s AMR-WB_12.65 12.65 kbit/s AMR-WB_8.85 8.85
kbit/s AMR-WB_6.60 6.60 kbit/s AMR-WB_SID 1.75 kbit/s *
* * *
(*) Assuming SID frames are continuously transmitted
# 6 Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband speech codec ANSI C-code
The ANSI --C-code of the speech codec, VAD and CNG system are described in
[3]. The ANSI C-code is mandatory.
# 7 Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband speech codec test vectors
A set of digital test sequences is specified in [4], thus enabling the
verification of compliance, i.e. bit-exactness, to a high degree of
confidence.
The test sequences are defined separately for:
\- The speech codec described in [2],
\- The VAD described in [6],
\- The CN generation described in [7].
The adaptive multi-rate wideband speech transcoder, VAD, SCR system and
comfort noise parts of the audio processing functions (see Figure 1) are
defined in bit exact arithmetic. Consequently, they shall react on a given
input sequence always with the corresponding bit exact output sequence,
provided that the internal state variables are also always exactly in the same
state at the beginning of the test.
The input test sequences provided shall force the corresponding output test
sequences, provided that the tested modules are in their home‑state when
starting.
The modules may be set into their home states by provoking the appropriate
homing‑functions.
NOTE: This is normally done during reset (initialisation of the codec).
Special inband signalling frames (encoder‑homing‑frame and
decoder‑homing‑frame) described in [2] have been defined to provoke these
homing‑functions also in remotely placed modules.
At the end of the first received homing frame, the audio functions that are
defined in a bit exact way shall go into their predefined home states. The
output corresponding to the first homing frame is dependent on the codec state
when the frame was received. Any consecutive homing frames shall produce
corresponding homing frames at the output.
# 8 Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband speech codec source controlled rate operation
The source controlled rate operation of the adaptive multi-rate wideband
speech codec is defined in [5].
During a normal telephone conversation, the participants alternate so that, on
the average, each direction of transmission is occupied about 50 % of the
time. Source controlled rate (SCR) is a mode of operation where the speech
encoder encodes speech frames containing only background noise with a lower
bit-rate than normally used for encoding speech. A network may adapt its
transmission scheme to take advantage of the varying bit-rate. This may be
done for the following two purposes:
1) In the UE, battery life will be prolonged or a smaller battery could be
used for a given operational duration.
2) The average required bit-rate is reduced, leading to a more efficient
transmission with decreased load and hence increased capacity.
The following functions are required for the source controlled rate operation:
\- a Voice Activity Detector (VAD) on the TX side;
\- evaluation of the background acoustic noise on the TX side, in order to
transmit characteristic parameters to the RX side;
\- generation of comfort noise on the RX side during periods when no normal
speech frames are received.
The transmission of comfort noise information to the RX side is achieved by
means of a Silence Descriptor (SID) frame, which is sent at regular intervals.
# 9 Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband speech codec voice activity detection
The adaptive multi-rate wideband VAD function is described in [6].
The input to the VAD is the input speech itself together with a set of
parameters computed by the adaptive multi-rate wideband speech encoder. The
VAD uses this information to decide whether each 20 ms speech coder frame
contains speech or not.
The VAD algorithm is described in [6], and the corresponding C-code is defined
in [3]. The verification of compliance to [6]. is achieved by use of digital
test sequences applied to the same interface as the test sequences for the
speech codec.
# 10 Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband speech codec comfort noise insertion
The adaptive multi-rate wideband comfort noise insertion function is described
in [7].
When speech is absent, the synthesis in the speech decoder is different from
the case when normal speech frames are received. The synthesis of an
artificial noise based on the received non-speech parameters is termed comfort
noise generation.
The comfort noise generation process is as follows:
\- the evaluation of the acoustic background noise in the transmitter;
\- the noise parameter encoding (SID frames) and decoding, and
\- the generation of comfort noise in the receiver.
The comfort noise processes and the algorithm for updating the noise
parameters during speech pauses are defined in detail in [7], and the
corresponding C-code is defined in [3]. The comfort noise mechanism is based
on the adaptive multi-rate wideband speech codec defined in [2].
# 11 Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband speech codec error concealment of lost
frames
The adaptive multi-rate wideband speech codec error concealment of erroneous
or lost frames is described in [8].
Frames may be erroneous due to transmission errors or frames may be lost due
to frame stealing in a wireless environment or packet loss in a transport
network.. The methods described in [8] may be used as a basis for error
concealment.
In order to mask the effect of isolated erroneous/lost frames, the speech
decoder shall be informed about erroneous/lost frames and the error
concealment actions shall be initiated, whereby a set of predicted parameters
are used in the speech synthesis. Insertion of speech signal independent
silence frames is not allowed. For several subsequent erroneous/lost frames, a
muting technique shall be used to indicate to the listener that transmission
has been interrupted.
# 12 Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband speech codec frame structure
The adaptive multi-rate wideband speech frame structure is described in [9].
The output interface format from the encoder and input interface format to the
decoder is divided into two parts; the core speech data part, which is the
speech coded bits, and the other part is an additional data part with mode
information.
The interface format described in [9] is termed AMR-WB interface format 1
(AMR-WB IF1).
Annex A of [9] describes an octet aligned frame format which shall be used in
applications requiring octet alignment, such as for 3G H.324. This format is
termed AMR-WB interface format 2 (AMR-WB IF2).
# 13 Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband speech codec interface to RAN
The adaptive multi-rate wideband speech service interface to RAN is described
in [10].
# 14 Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband speech codec performance characterisation
The adaptive multi-rate wideband speech channel performance characterisation
is described in [11].
#