# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the digital test sequences for the DSR Extended
Advanced Front-end speech codec. These sequences can be used to test for a bit
exact implementation of the DSR Advanced Front-end codec and quantization
(3GPP TS 26.243).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions, which through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 26.243: \"ANSI-C code for the Fixed-Point Distributed Speech
Recognition Extended Advanced Front-end\".
[2] ETSI ES 202 050: \"Speech Processing, Transmission and Quality Aspects
(STQ); Distributed speech recognition; Advanced front-end feature extraction
algorithm; Compression algorithms DSR advanced front end.\"
[3] ETSI ES 202 212: \"Speech Processing, Transmission and Quality Aspects
(STQ); Distributed speech recognition; Extended advanced front-end feature
extraction algorithm; Compression algorithms; Back-end speech reconstruction
algorithm\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.074: "AMR speech codec test sequences"
[5] 3GPP TS 26.174: "Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) Wideband speech codec test
sequences"
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AFE Advanced Front-end
AMR Adaptive Multi-Rate
AMR-NB AMR Narrowband
AMR-WB AMR Wideband
DSR Distributed Speech Recognition
ETSI European Telecommunications Standards Institute
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
SES Speech Enabled Services
VAD Voice Activity Detector
X-AFE eXtended Advanced Front-end
# 4 General
Digital test sequences are provided to test for a bit exact implementation of
the Distributed Speech Recognition Extended Advanced Front-end (3GPP TS 26.243
[1]).
The test sequences may also be used to verify installations of the ANSI C code
in 3GPP TS 26.243 [1].
Clause 5 describes the format of the files, which contain the digital test
sequences.
# 5 Test sequence format
This clause provides information on the format of the digital test sequences
for the DSR Extended Advanced Front-end (TS 26.243 [1]).
## 5.1 File format
The test sequence files in PC (little-endian) byte order are provided in
archive files (ZIP format), which accompany the present document.
Following decompression, three types of file are provided:
*.inp - Input to the speech encoder.
*.cep -- Cepstral output of the encoder, input to the quantizer.
*.pitch -- Pitch output of the encoder, input to the quantizer.
*.class -- Class output of the encoder, input to the quantizer.
*.vad -- VAD output of the encoder, input to the quantizer.
*.bs -- Output of the quantizer
Two test scripts are provided for exercising the Extended Advanced Front-end
and quantizer functions.
All file formats are described in 3GPP TS 26.243 [1].
# 6 DSR test sequences
Forty-three encoder input sequences are provided, 22 with 8kHz sampling, 23
with 16kHz sampling.
8kHz sampling:
T00.INP - T21.INP as described in the AMR test sequences document TS 26.074
[4].
16kHz sampling:
T00.INP - T22.INP as described in the AMR WB test sequences document TS 26.174
[5].
#