# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification.
The 3GPP packet-switched streaming service (PSS) specification consists of six
3GPP TSs; 3GPP TS 22.233 "Transparent end-to-end packet switched streaming
service; Stage 1 [6], 3GPP TS 26.234 [1], 3GPP TS 26.244 [7], 3GPP TS 26.245
[8], 3GPP TS 26.246 [9] and the present document. The service requirements for
PSS are listed in [6]. The present document provides an overview of the 3GPP
PSS and [1] specifies the set of PSS protocols and codecs used by the service;
[7] defines the 3GPP file format, [8] defines the 3GPP Timed Text, and [9]
defines the 3GPP SMIL Language Profile, which are all used by the 3GPP PSS.
# Introduction
Streaming refers to the ability of an application to play synchronised media
streams like audio and video streams in a continuous way while those streams
are being transmitted to the client over a data network.
Applications, which can be built on top of streaming services, can be
classified into on-demand and live information delivery applications. Examples
of the first category are music and news-on-demand applications. Live delivery
of radio and television programs are examples of the second category.
Streaming over fixed-IP networks is already a major application today. While
IETF and W3C have developed a set of protocols used in fixed-IP streaming
services, no complete standardised streaming framework has yet been defined.
For 3G systems, the 3G packet-switched streaming service (PSS) fills the gap
between 3G MMS, e.g. downloading, and conversational services.
PSS enables mobile streaming applications, where the protocol and terminal
complexity is lower than for conversational services, which in contrast to a
streaming terminal require media input devices, media encoders and more
complex protocols.
The present document describes the transparent 3G packet-switched streaming
services (3G PSS) on a general application level.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains a general description of a transparent packet-
switched streaming service in 3GPP-defined networks. In particular, it defines
the usage scenarios, overall high-level end-to-end service concept, and lists
terminal related functional components. It also lists any identified service
interworking requirements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
The present document may contain references to pre-Release-4 GSM
specifications. These references shall be taken to refer to the Release 5 or 6
versions where that version exists. Conversion from the pre-Release‑4 number
to the Release 4 (onwards) number is given in clause 6.1 of 3GPP TR 41.001[2].
[1] 3GPP TS 26.234:\"Transparent end-to-end packet switched streaming service
(PSS); Protocols and codecs\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Specification set\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.140: \"Service aspects; Stage 1; Multimedia Messaging
Service\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.140: \"Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS), Functional
description stage 2/3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.233: "Transparent end-to-end packet switched streaming service;
Stage 1".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.244: \"Transparent end-to-end packet switched streaming service
(PSS); 3GPP file format (3GP)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 26.245: \"Transparent end-to-end packet switched streaming service
(PSS); Timed text format\".
[9] 3GPP TS 26.246: \"Transparent end-to-end packet switched streaming service
(PSS); 3GPP SMIL Language Profile\".
[10] Open Mobile Alliance: "OMA DRM Specification, V2.0".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
DRM Digital Rights Management
GIF Graphics Interchange Format
HTML HyperText Markup Language
IETF Internet Engineering Task Force
IP Internet Protocol
MMS Multimedia Messaging Service
PDP Packet Data Protocol
PSS Packet-switched Streaming Service
RAB Radio Access Bearer
RFC IETF Request For Comments
RTP Real-time Transport Protocol
RTSP Real-Time Streaming Protocol
SDP Session Description Protocol
SMIL Synchronised Multimedia Integration Language
TCP Transport Control Protocol
UDP User Datagram Protocol
URI Universal Resource Identifier
WAP Wireless Application Protocol
WWW World Wide Web
XHTML eXtensible Hyper Text Markup Language
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Usage scenarios
## 4.1 Applications
The streaming platform supports a multitude of different applications
including streaming of news at very low bitrates using still images and
speech, music listening at various bitrates and qualities, video clips and
watching live sports events. In addition to streaming, the platform supports
also progressive downloading of media for selective media types. Media used by
the applications can also be protected with a standardised digital rights
management (DRM) technology.
## 4.2 Use case descriptions
### 4.2.1 Simple streaming (Release 4)
The simple streaming service includes a basic set of streaming control
protocols, transport protocols, media codecs and scene description protocol.
In this basic case defined for the first time in the Release 4 version of this
specification, there is neither explicit capability exchange, nor any
encryption or digital rights management.
A mobile user gets a URI to specific content that suits his or her terminal.
This URI may come from a WWW-browser, a WAP-browser, or typed in by hand. This
URI specifies a streaming server and the address of the content on that
server. A PSS application that establishes the multimedia session shall
understand a Session Description Protocol (SDP) file. Sessions containing only
non-streamable content such as a SMIL file, still images and text to form a
time-synchronised presentation don\'t require use of an SDP file in session
establishment. Instead HTTP protocol shall be used for receiving the
presentation files. PSS SMIL [9] sessions can also include URIs to streamable
content, requiring parsing a SDP file and/or RTSP signalling.
The SDP file may be obtained in a number of ways. It may be provided in a link
inside the HTML page that the user downloads, via an embed tag. It may also be
directly obtained by typing it as a URI. It may also be obtained through RTSP
signalling via the DESCRIBE method. In case of streaming delivery option of
MMS service, the SDP file is obtained via the MMS user agent that receives a
modified MMS message from the MMS relay or server. The SDP file contains the
description of the session (session name, author,...), the type of media to be
presented, and the bitrate of the media.
The session establishment is the process in which the browser or the mobile
user invokes a streaming client to set up the session against the server. The
UE is expected to have an active PDP context in accordance with [5] or other
type of radio bearer that enables IP packet transmission at the start of
session establishment signalling. The client may be able to ask for more
information about the content. The client shall initiate the provisioning of a
bearer with appropriate QoS for the streaming media.
The set up of the streaming service is done by sending an RTSP SETUP message
for each media stream chosen by the client. This returns the UDP and/or TCP
port etc. to be used for the respective media stream. The client sends a RTSP
PLAY message to the server that starts to send one or more streams over the IP
network.
This case is illustrated below in figure 1a. Figure 1b illustrates the service
use case when the SDP file is obtained via MMS.
{width="5.636111111111111in" height="4.719444444444444in"}
NOTE: These messages are one example of how to establish and terminate the
bearer with the desired QoS. Other alternatives exist, e.g., an existing PDP
context might be modified.
Figure 1a : Schematic view of a basic streaming session
{width="5.678472222222222in" height="4.770138888888889in"}
Figure 1b: Schematic view for streaming session originated via MMS
### 4.2.2 Enhanced streaming service (Release 5)
The streaming service defined in Release 5 of PSS supports all features
defined for the Release 4 streaming case in a fully backwards compatible
manner, and may additionally include more advanced service features, such as
capability exchange.
### 4.2.3 Streaming and download framework for commercial content (Release 6)
Release 6 of PSS, while remaining essentially backwards compatible to content
servers using earlier PSS releases, completes the PSS feature set to a
comprehensive content delivery framework. The Release 6 framework updates the
list of recommended media types and codecs to achieve higher service quality
within the 3GPP environments.
It consists of already defined download and streaming framework appended with
alternative of progressive downloading, in an end-to-end delivery context
which enables optional use of strong content encryption and integrity
protection capabilities, as well as interoperability with cryptographic key
management systems. A standardised container file exchange between PSS
providers is possible as a specific server file format.
PSS allows selection of streaming session alternatives (alternative SDP) and
dynamic, link-aware bandwidth adaptation to adapt the session bandwidth to the
potentially time-varying cellular network bandwidth, especially useful in
cellular networks where QoS-enabled bearers are not available. There is also a
defined mechanism to gather streaming session Quality of Experience metrics at
the PSS service provider's premises.
The capability exchange mechanisms of Release 5 have been strengthened and
upgraded to enable service filtering better for both streaming and static
media contents.
#### Progressive Downloading
Progressive downloading is the ability to start media playback while the file
or media data is still being "downloaded". The function works by using a HTTP
download over TCP/IP connection, and this service option is available for
specific media types that have a container format suitable for progressive
download -- audio, video, timed text [8] that will use progressive download
profile of [7] and vector graphics.
A progressive-download session is established with one or more HTTP GET
requests issued by the client to the server. The media resource (e.g. a
progressively downloadable 3GP file) is pointed by a valid HTTP URL. Figure 1c
illustrates the data flow and signalling in progressive downloading session.
Figure 1c: Schematic view of Progressive Downloading Use Case
# 5 General service architecture
Figure 2 shows the most important service specific entities involved in a 3G
packet -switched streaming service. A streaming service requires at least a
content server and a streaming client. A streaming or download server is
located behind the Gi interface. Additional components like portals, profile
servers, caching servers and proxies located behind the Gi interface might be
involved as well to provide additional services or to improve the overall
service quality _._
Portals are servers allowing convenient access to streamed media content. For
instance, a portal might offer content browse and search facilities. In the
simplest case, it is simply a (X)HTML/WAP-page with a list of links to
streaming or downloadable content. The content itself is usually stored on
content servers, which can be located elsewhere in the network.
User and device profile servers are used to store user preferences and device
capabilities. This information can be used to control the presentation of
streamed media content to a mobile user. A high-level illustration of the
capability exchange framework can be seen in figure 3.
NOTE: specific user preference attributes have not yet been defined for PSS.
The extensible device capability attributes allow specifying such attributes
in the future releases.
{width="5.729166666666667in" height="3.875in"}
Figure 2: Network elements involved in a 3G packet switched streaming service
{width="3.9590277777777776in" height="2.9715277777777778in"}
Figure 3. Logical system architecture of the capability negotiation mechanism
applied in PSS.
# 6 Functional components of a PSS terminal
This clause lists the 3G packet-switched streaming service components, which
belong to the terminal. Note that not all of the components are mandatory. The
functional behaviour of the different components is discussed in the
following.
## 6.1 Session protocols and data transport
Protocols are needed for PSS session establishment, session set-up, capability
exchange, session control, scene description, and data transport of streaming
media and other data. The PSS protocols to be used are specified in [1].
Note that for the simple streaming case defined in clause 4.2.1, no specific
capability exchange protocol in addition to the session description mechanism
is required. In Release 6, capability exchange can easily be separated to
streaming, progressive download and scene description (SMIL) specific
capabilities.
The normative part of device capability and user preference profile exchange
mechanism is defined in clause 5.2 and Annex F of [1]. An informative part is
included in Annex A.4 of [1].
In Release 6 the RTP transport defined in clause 6.2 of [1] supports a payload
format for RTP retransmission and streaming of timed text content.
## 6.2 Codecs
Decoders are needed for speech, natural and synthetic audio, video, still
images, bitmap graphics, vector graphics and static and timed text [8]. The
codecs to be used are specified in [1].
## 6.3 Adaptation of continuous media (Release 6)
PSS Release 6 includes a number of protocols and functionalities that can be
utilized to allow the PSS session to adapt transmission and content rates to
the available network resources. The goal of this is of course to achieve
highest possible quality of experience for the end-user with the available
resources, while maintaining interrupt-free playback of the media. This
requires that the available network resources are estimated and that
transmission rates are adapted to the available network link rates. This can
prevent overflowing network buffers and thereby avoid packet losses. The real-
time properties of the transmitted media must be considered so that media does
not arrive too late to be useful. This will require that media content rate is
adapted to the transmission rate.
To avoid buffer overflows, resulting in that the client must discard useful
data, while still allowing the server to deliver as much data as possible into
the client buffer, a functionality for client buffer feedback is defined
within clauses 5.3.2, 5.3.3 and 6.2 of [1]. This allows the server to closely
monitor the buffering situation on the client side and to do what it is
capable in order to avoid client buffer underflow.
The client specifies how much buffer space the server can utilise and the
desired target level of protection with aid of new RTSP signalling defined in
clause 5.3.2.2 . When the desired level of protection is achieved, the server
may utilise any resources beyond what is needed to maintain that protection
level to increase the quality of the media. The server can also utilise the
buffer feedback information to decide if the media quality needs to be lowered
in order to avoid a buffer underflow and the resulting play-back interruption.
# 7 File format
The file format is an important element of the content manipulation chain.
Conceptually, there is a difference between the coding format and the file
format. The coding format is related to the action of a specific coding
algorithm that codes the content information into a codestream. The file
format is instead a way of organising the prestored codestream in such way
that it can be accessed for local decoding and playback, or transferred as a
file on different media, or streamed over different transport. Some file
formats are optimised for one or more of these functions, others aim instead
at achieving a higher flexibility.
When a single media type is involved, the coding and the file format are often
considered, and referred to, as a single entity. When multimedia information
is involved, instead, it is appropriate to maintain, at least conceptually,
the distinction between these two instances. The file format can play an
important role in facilitating the organisation and the access to the coded
information, independently of the specific coding formats.
The basic profile, as defined in clause 5.4.3 of the 3GPP File Format
specification [7], specifies how the 3GPP MMS [3] shall utilise a file format.
The format establishes a standardised content transport for audio-visual
content between MMS elements. It also allows the delivery of the content to
the recipient both as a file download or through streaming. A priori knowledge
of the delivery mechanism is not needed when the message is created. See also
clause 8.2.
In addition to basic Profile, [7] defines three more file profiles: General,
Streaming-server and Progressive-download profiles. General Profile is a
superset of all other profiles. It provides a generic umbrella, which covers
all 3GP files. Streaming-server profile is used in PSS and defines the
conformance level of a server-side 3GP file, which contains specific
information related to PSS streaming as well as streaming-server extensions as
defined in clause 7 of [7]. The progressive-download profile defines the
conformance level of a progressively downloadable 3GP file within the PSS
context.
[7] also defines the file format-level registration mechanism of the non-ISO
based codecs in clause 6.
As part of the DRM commitment, clause 10 of [7] defines how encrypted content
is to be stored in a 3GP file.
# 8 Interworking with other core network services
## 8.1 Interworking with WAP
Not required. As shown in Figure 1 the service may be initiated by an URI or a
SDP file received via WAP.
## 8.2 Interworking with MMS
TS 23.140 [4] defines a new optional feature for the MMS, which enables
streaming of the MMS messages by the message recipient. The MMS streaming
option uses the codecs and protocols in accordance with TS 26.234 [1].
Additionally, [4] mandates the use of the interchange format recommendation
specified in 3GPP TS 26.244 [7], clause 5.4.3 for MMS purposes.
## 8.3 Interworking with charging/billing services
Interworking with charging/billing services can be part of a future release of
PSS.
# 9 Security
Security has been greatly enhanced in Release 6 of PSS. Streamed and
downloaded content may be encrypted and protected for integrity while in
transport. Release 6 supports transport-level integrity protection and
content-level encryption, which may be applied at content creation time,
making sure that content is protected for confidentiality at all times. A high
level of security for the purpose of protecting commercial content can be
achieved by using a Digital Rights Management framework. The component-based
design provides maximum flexibility for building security features into
services.
# 10 Digital Rights Management (Release 6)
The Release 6 of PSS adds support for streaming and downloading of encrypted
content, as well as co-operation with key management systems governing access
to cryptographic keys required for playback. Encryption is supported in all
file format profiles and additional meta-information is used to carry key
management system specific parameters. Streaming supports protected payloads
and SDP attributes for signalling DRM information. 3GPP has worked together
with OMA for supporting the OMA DRM Release 2.0 [10] in Release 6 of PSS and
file format, while keeping the formats open for using other key management
systems in a later phase. The OMA DRM Release 2.0 is an open standard, which
is enjoying a substantial commitment from the mobile and content industries
and 3GPP Release 6 is building on this momentum.
Figure 4: OMA DRM system architecture
The OMA DRM Release 2.0 is based on Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) and strong
cryptographic algorithms to provide a high level of security for commercial
content. It is an end-to-end system architecture with roles and trust
relationships, providing flexible and robust components to be integrated to
services. Main features include content superdistribution, preview,
subscription, export and user domains support, which enable many different
business models and good user experience.
OMA DRM 2.0 system consists of a Rights Issuer, Content Issuer and a DRM Agent
(typically one per device). A Rights Issuer is responsible for setting usage
permissions and authorising devices with keys, Content Issuer is typically a
download or streaming service, and DRM Agent is responsible for enforcing the
set of Rights expressed for a piece of content. When combined with PSS Release
6, content in 3GP files is pre-encrypted at a production facility, delivered
through a download or streaming service to a device, and during delivery or
playback, the OMA DRM Agent in the device handles authorisation by acquiring
Rights from a Rights Issuer.
#