# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
eCall refers to an interoperable in-vehicle emergency call service which is
envisioned to be introduced and operated across Europe in 2014. According to
reports from the European Commission, it is foreseen that eCall will be
offered on all new vehicles in the EU by 2014.
The European Commission has brought together standardization bodies, the
automotive industry, mobile telecommunication industry, public emergency
authorities and others in the eSafety Forum initiative which has identified
high-level requirements, recommendations and guidelines for this eCall service
[2] and [3]. The eSafety Forum has assigned ETSI MSG to standardize those
parts of the eCall service that affect the mobile communication system. The
development of the eCall standard has been further delegated to the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).
# 1 Scope
The present document characterizes the performance of the eCall In-band Modem,
which is used for reliable transmission of the eCall Minimum Set of Data (MSD)
from an In-Vehicle System (IVS) to the Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP)
via the voice channel of cellular and PSTN networks.
The European Union eCall requirements, recommendations and guidelines were
developed by eSafety Forum [3] and [4], with important additional work
produced by ETSI MSG, GSME, 3GPP, and CEN.
Previous work in 3GPP TR 22.967 [5] \"Transfer of Emergency Call Data\",
examined the issues associated with the transmission of emergency call data
from a vehicle to a PSAP. This analysis identified that the preferred option
be based on an in-band modem solution.
eCall provides reliable full-duplex data communications between IVS and PSAP
in addition to emergency voice call (E112) via the cellular network, and can
be initiated either automatically or manually [6]. The eCall In-band Modem
uses the same voice channel as used for the emergency voice call. eCall allows
reliable transmission of MSD alternating with a speech conversation through
the existing voice communication paths in cellular mobile phone systems. The
expected benefit is that emergency services will be made aware of accidents
much more rapidly, will get precise information on location, vehicle type etc.
and therefore will be able to reach accident victims faster, with the
potential to save many lives annually.
The eCall in-band modems (IVS and PSAP) are fully specified by the 'General
description ' TS 26.267 [9] together with the C-code reference as provided in
3GPP TS 26.268 [7]. 3GPP TS 26.269 [8] deals with the conformance testing for
eCall modem implementations.
The present document provides a detailed performance characterization of the
eCall in-band modem solution. Results from the 3GPP selection tests as well as
verification and characterization tests have been collected into this report.
It is impossible to test the eCall modem for all conditions that might arise
on the transmission path from the IVS to the PSAP. However, the selected set
of test scenarios represents a wide range of conditions that are foreseen to
potentially occur in the in-band transmission of eCall data over the radio
access and core networks as well as the PSTN.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] eSafety Forum eCall Driving Group: \"European Memorandum of Understanding
for Realisation of Interoperable In-Vehicle eCall\", May 2004.
[3] eSafety Forum: \"Clarification Paper -- EG.2 , High level requirements for
a eCall in-vehicle system, Supplier perspective\", March 2006, Version 1.0.
[4] eSafety Forum: \"Recommendations of the DG eCall for the introduction of
the pan-European eCall\", April 2006, Version 2.0.
[5] 3GPP TR 22.967: \"Transferring of Emergency Call Data\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.268: \"eCall Data transfer; In-band modem solution; ANSI-C
reference code\".
[8] 3GPP TS 26.269: \"eCall Data Transfer; In-band modem solution; Conformance
testing\".
[9] 3GPP TS 26.267: \"eCall Data Transfer; In-band modem solution; General
description\".
[10] 3GPP TS 26.226: \"Cellular text telephone modem; General description\".
[11] 3GPP TS 26.230: \"Cellular text telephone modem; Transmitter bit exact
C-code\".
[12] ITU-T Recommendation G.726: \"40, 32, 24, 16 kbit/s Adaptive Differential
Pulse Code Modulation (ADPCM) of Audio Frequencies\", 12/90.
[13] ITU-T Recommendation G.729: \"Coding of speech at 8 kbit/s using
conjugate‑structure algebraic-code-excited linear prediction (CS-ACELP)\",
01/07.
[14] http://portal.etsi.org/docbox/zArchive/SMG/SMG11/smg11_sq/HR/
[15] 3GPP TS 46.006: \"Half-rate speech: ANSI-C code for GSM half-rate speech
codec \".
[16] http://portal.etsi.org/docbox/zArchive/SMG/SMG11/smg11_sq/EPx/
[17] 3GPP TS 46.053: \"ANSI-C code for the GSM Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech
codec\".
[18]
http://portal.etsi.org/docbox/zArchive/SMG/SMG11/smg11_amr_nb/ERROR_PATTERNS/
[19] http://portal.etsi.org/docbox/zArchive/SMG/SMG11/SW_tool_library/EFR/
[20] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia Telephony;
Media handling and inter-action\"
[21] 3GPP TS 46.010: \"Full-rate speech; Transcoding\"
[22] 3GPP TS 46.060: \"Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech transcoding\".
[23] 3GPP TS 26.071: \"Mandatory speech CODEC speech processing functions; AMR
speech Codec; General description\".
[24] 3GPP TS 26.171: \"Speech codec speech processing functions; Adaptive
Multi-Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec; General description\".
[25] ITU-T Recommendation G.711: \"Pulse Code Modulation (PCM) of Voice
Frequencies\", 11/88.
[26] 3GPP TS 26.101: \"Mandatory speech codec speech processing functions;
Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) speech codec frame structure\".
[27] 3GPP TS 26.268: \"eCall Data transfer; In-band modem solution; ANSI-C
reference code\", Version 8.0.0.
[28] 3GPP TS 26.267: \"eCall Data Transfer; In-band modem solution; General
description\", Version 8.0.0.
[29] 3GPP TS 26.268: \"eCall Data transfer; In-band modem solution; ANSI-C
reference code\", Version 8.6.0.
[30] 3GPP TS 26.267: \"eCall Data Transfer; In-band modem solution; General
description\", Version 8.6.0.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**eCall:** manually or automatically initiated emergency call (TS12) from a
vehicle, supplemented with a minimum set of emergency related data (MSD), as
defined under the EU Commission's eSafety initiative
**eCall In-band Modem:** modem pair (consisting of transmitters and receivers
at IVS and PSAP) that operates full-duplex and allows reliable transmission of
eCall Minimum Set of Data from IVS to PSAP via the voice channel of the
emergency voice call through cellular and PSTN networks
**eSafety:** European Commission sponsored forum to improve safety aspects of
European citizens
**Figure of Merit (FoM):** average MSD transmission time for the test campaign
used in the eCall selection test, consisting of 26 different test conditions
(see Table 1) and 100 tests for each condition. In the wider sense, the Figure
of Merit can also include other channel impairments (e.g., noise or
transcoding) apart from the speech codec and channel errors, but the average
is always taken over the 2600 tests mentioned above
**frame (or: speech frame):** time interval equal to 20 ms (corresponding to
one AMR or FR speech frame, represented by 160 samples at an 8 kHz sampling
rate)
**Minimum Set of Data (MSD):** forming the data component of an eCall sent
from a vehicle to a Public Safety Answering Point or other designated
emergency call centre. The MSD has a maximum size of 140 bytes and includes,
for example, vehicle identity, location information and time-stamp
**MSD data frame:** uplink signal transmission interval containing the data of
one MSD (after synchronization has been established) - corresponds to a time
interval of 1 080 ms or 8 640 samples (fast modulator) and 2 080 ms or 16 640
samples (robust modulator) assuming an 8 kHz sampling rate
**modulation frame:** symbol transmission time interval equal to 2 ms
corresponding to 16 samples at 8 kHz sampling rate (fast modulator), or 4 ms
corresponding to 32 samples at 8 kHz sampling rate (robust modulator).
**synchronization frame:** signal transmission interval containing
synchronization information - corresponds to a time interval of 260 ms or 2
080 samples at an 8 kHz sampling rate
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ACK Acknowledgement
ADPCM Adaptive Differential Pulse Code Modulation
AGC Automatic Gain Control
AoIP A-Interface User Plane over IP
AMR Adaptive Multi-Rate (speech codec)
AMR-WB AMR Wide-Band (speech codec)
AWGN Additive White Gaussian Noise
CEN Comité Européen de Normalisation
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
CSoHS Circuit-Switched over HSPA
CTM Cellular Text telephone Modem
EID Error Insertion Device
EU European Union
FoM Figure of Merit
FR Full Rate (channel)
HR Half Rate (channel)
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
GSM EFR GSM Enhanced Full Rate (speech codec)
GSM FR GSM Full Rate (speech codec)
GSM HR GSM Half Rate (speech codec)
GSME GSM Europe
IVS In-Vehicle System
MSD Minimum Set of Data
MSG Mobile Standards Group
NACK Negative Acknowledgement
PCM Pulse Code Modulation
PSAP Public Safety Answering Point
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network
ROM Read Only Memory
RSSI Received Signal Strength Indicator
SIP-I Session Initiation Protocol with encapsulated ISDN User Part
VAD Voice Activity Detection
# 4 Selection tests
This clause describes test results according to the eCall selection tests. The
selection tests were conducted by 3GPP to identify the performance of eCall
in-band modem under typical conditions. The eCall in-band modem has been
tested for certain performance objectives and design constraints.
Note that the original selection tests were carried out with a prototype
version of the eCall modem software. The reference C-code implementation as
specified in [27] contains some improvements of the modem that were agreed by
the responsible 3GPP working group. The test results given in this report
represent the performance of the reference modem implementation [27], i.e. the
selection test items have been repeated with the improved version of the
modem.
## 4.1 Performance objectives and requirements
The foremost performance objective in the selection test was that the overall
average transmission time should be as small as possible. The average MSD
transmission time over a typical set of channel conditions was determined and
used as a Figure of Merit (FoM) for the eCall modem. The MSD transmission
times are measured from the time when the transmission from the IVS to the
PSAP begins (after a trigger from the PSAP has been detected).
Figure 1 illustrates the measured MSD transmission time in relation to the
time required for setting up the transmission (push and/or pull messages) as
well as acknowledging the successful MSD reception (lower layer ACK and
higher-layer ACK).
{width="5.907638888888889in" height="3.8in"}
Figure 1: Timeline of eCall with IVS initiated signalling and HL-ACK in normal
operation
(IVS-initiated signalling in processing block 1 can be omitted in an alternate
modem configuration)
In Annex B, an estimate of the required times for processing blocks 1 and 3,
as well as the parts of block 2 outside the Figure-of-Merit, is given.
As an eCall service requirement, in optimal conditions (error-free radio
channel, GSM FR codec [21] and FR AMR [23] 12.2 kbit/s mode) the eCall
procedure should be able to transmit the whole 140 bytes of the MSD reliably
within 4 seconds.
The IVS modem should not false detect the tones in a 30 minute test PSTN tone
file as PSAP triggers.
The procedures to test the performance objectives/requirements are explained
in more detail below, followed by the corresponding performance figures of the
eCall modem.
The test setup that was used in the selection tests for eCall is described in
more detail in Annex A.
### 4.1.1 Test procedures
For any particular test condition (specified by speech codec plus radio
channel error condition), the observed transmission time of the 140 bytes of
the MSD may vary depending on the parameters of the channel simulation and the
specific contents of the MSD. Therefore each MSD transmission may be regarded
as one trial _k_ in a random experiment, where the observed transmission time,
_T~k~_ , is the random variable of interest. For each particular test
condition _C,_ the MSD transmission was repeated with different, randomly
generated MSD data for at least 100 times\ ( _k_ = 1, 2, ..., _n_ , where _n_
>=100) to get enough statistical significance.
To ensure a practical limit on the time required for testing, the observed
value of _T~k\ ~_ must have a reasonable upper bound. This upper bound,
_t~UB~_ , was fixed at a value of 200 seconds for one trial for all test
conditions. Any value of _T~k\ ~_ that was observed to be greater than _t~UB~_
was classified as a transmission failure and was assigned the value of
_t~UB~_.
Each particular test condition _C_ gave an observed sample distribution _T~1~_
, _T~2~_ , ..., _T~n~_. The statistic of interest is the average value, _μ~C~_
= (_T~1~_ \+ _T~2~_ \+ ... + _T~n~_) / _n_.
The Figure of Merit (FoM) over all test conditions was calculated by
unweighted averaging of _μ~C~_ over all particular test conditions _C~1~_ ,
_C~2~_ , ..., _C~m~_. A low Figure of Merit is -- obviously - better than a
higher Figure of Merit. In the original selection test, the eCall modem
candidates were ranked by their Figures of Merit.
The following assumptions were made for the measurement of _T~k~_.
1) The starting time of the transmission with respect to speech codec audio
frames was uniformly distributed.
2) The channel error conditions were modelled by error patterns obtained from
offline simulations (see Annex A for details). The error patterns represent
residual errors after channel decoding. They are available together with the
modem and test setup source code [7]. The following radio conditions were
tested:
\- GMSK Full Rate radio channel at C/I values of 1, 4, 7, 10, 13, 16 dB, and
error free; with ideal frequency hopping, with the Typical Urban profile and
with slow vehicle speed. These channel conditions were applied in both
directions (uplink and downlink) symmetrically.
\- GMSK Full Rate radio channel at RSSI value -100 dBm with no other
interferer. This channel condition was applied in both directions (uplink and
downlink) symmetrically. The RSSI = -100 dBm condition was included in the
tests in order to model a rural scenario where little interference is present
but the received signal power is low.
The following speech Codecs were tested: GSM FR [21] and FR AMR [23] (12.2,
10.2, 7.95, 7.4, 6.7, 5.9, 5.15, 4.75 kbps). DTX was enabled in both
directions.
Table 1 in the next clause gives an allocation of studied codec and radio
conditions in order to reduce the test effort to the reasonable minimum.
3) It was assumed that the transmission in the wireline part of the eCall uses
PCM (G.711, A-law) without any further transcoding and with a fixed, pre-
selected level setting.
4) It was assumed that no acoustical echo is produced by the IVS and that
therefore no Acoustic Echo Suppressor is applied in the network.
5) It was assumed that no Hybrid Echo (i.e., echo caused by signal reflection
at interfaces in a PSTN) is produced by the PSAP connection and that therefore
no Hybrid Echo canceller is applied in the network.
6) The MSD contained randomly generated data. (Each possible byte sequence was
considered to be equally probable.)
7) The round-trip delay between the IVS and PSAP was a randomly generated
value in the range (200 ms, 220 ms).
To perform the false trigger test, a PSAP modem was implemented that transmits
a tone file on the downlink to the IVS. The IVS was monitored for any output
signal.
### 4.1.2 Test results
The MSD transmission times for the eCall modem [27], obtained in a test
according to the above procedures and assumptions, are given in Table 1. The
according 95^th^ percentile values (i.e., the limits which at least 95% of
transmission times fall below) are given in Table 2. Note that in the
characterization phase, more codec and C/I combinations were tested, and the
results tables were updated (see Table 20).
Table 1: Average MSD transmission times
* * *
                    **Average MSD transmission time (in s) per condition**
**Condition** **GSM FR** **AMR 12.2** **AMR 10.2** **AMR 7.95** **AMR 7.4**
**AMR 6.7** **AMR 5.9** **AMR 5.15** **AMR 4.75** C/I = 1 dB 4.07 C/I = 4 dB
2.41 3.10 3.38 C/I = 7 dB 2.29 1.91 1.80 1.69 1.68 2.01 2.10 2.57 3.12 C/I =
10 dB 1.66 1.53 1.42 1.56 1.59  
C/I = 13 dB 1.45 1.36 1.36  
C/I = 16 dB 1.39  
error free 1.37 1.35  
RSSI = -100 dBm 1.50 3.12
* * *
Table 2: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times
* * *
                    **95th percentiles of MSD transmission time (in s) per condition**
**Condition** **GSM FR** **AMR 12.2** **AMR 10.2** **AMR 7.95** **AMR 7.4**
**AMR 6.7** **AMR 5.9** **AMR 5.15** **AMR 4.75** C/I = 1 dB 4.60 C/I = 4 dB
2.80 3.54 3.90 C/I = 7 dB 3.68 2.08 2.08 1.76 1.74 2.10 2.42 3.14 3.88 C/I =
10 dB 2.06 1.74 1.74 1.74 1.74  
C/I = 13 dB 1.74 1.36 1.36  
C/I = 16 dB 1.72  
error free 1.36 1.36  
RSSI = -100 dBm 1.74 3.52
* * *
The overall average of all measured transmission times (the Figure of Merit)
is 2.03 s., with a 95^th^ percentile of 3.54 s.
With the updated in-band modem version, the Figure of Merit increases to 2.28
s (95^th^ percentile of 4.16 s). This increase is mainly caused by additional
uplink signal components that were required to enable uplink synchronization
tracking. For detailed test results per codec and C/I condition of the updated
modem, refer to Table 20b.
No false IVS triggers due to the tone test file were observed.
## 4.2 Design constraints
Apart from the primary objective of a fast MSD transmissions, design
constraints were considered in the development of the eCall in-band modem.
Several of the design constraints were checked in the eCall selection tests:
1) The MSD shall be transmitted reliably to the PSAP. An MSD transmission is
considered reliably terminated, if a cyclic redundancy check (CRC) of at least
28 bits, applied to the entire MSD, detects no errors.
2) The algorithm as implemented in the IVS should not have more than 10 times
the complexity of CTM [10].\ The algorithm as implemented in the PSAP should
not have more than 20 times the complexity of CTM [10].
3) The algorithm as implemented in the IVS should not require more than 20KB
of data memory.\ The algorithm as implemented in the PSAP should not require
more than 40KB of data memory.
### 4.2.1 Test procedures
Design constraints 1) and 3) were tested by inspection of the eCall modem
reference C-code [27]. Regarding constraint 3), memory for data only was
considered, including static and global variables, constants, and maximum
amount of dynamically allocated memory. Code memory and ROM tables were not
counted.
With respect to design constraint 2), the complexity was estimated by
compiling the eCall [27] and CTM [11] C-codes under similar compiler
conditions and then measuring the processing times.
### 4.2.2 Test results
1) The eCall in-band modem makes use of a 28-bit CRC to guarantee a reliable
MSD transmission. This CRC is realized in the reference C-code [7], and is
described in more detail in [9].
2) The modem complexity was checked for three representative channel
conditions. The results are summarized in Table 3 below.
Table 3: eCall modem complexity
* * *
                        **Complexity with respect to CTM \[10\]\    **Approximate processing time per frame in µs (on an Intel Core 2 Duo processor)**             
                        (\# times more computationally complex)**
**Condition** **IVS** **PSAP** **IVS** **PSAP**
AMR 12.2 Error Free 0.39 1.17 41.7 125.2
AMR 12.2 C/I=7dB 0.33 2.23 35.3 239.6
AMR 4.75 C/I=4dB 0.23 4.04 24.6 432.3
* * *
3) For the IVS modem, the total memory required is 9.1 KB.
For the PSAP modem, the total memory required is 32.3 KB.
# 5 Verification and characterization tests
This clause reports on the results of the verification and characterization
testing performed for the eCall in-band modem in its initial version ([27],
[28]). Some of the tests have been repeated using a more recent version of the
modem ([29], [30]), and the latest results are reported additionally in these
cases. Table 4 provides an overview of all verification and characterization
items tested, also indicating the modem version that has been used for
testing.
Table 4: Verification and characterization test items, and tested modem
versions;\ \"_V_ \" indicates a verification item
+----------+---------------------------------------+-----------------+ | **Item** | **Description** | **Versions** | +----------+---------------------------------------+-----------------+ | 1 | Performance with dynamic jitter | [27], [29] | | | buffer (IMS and MTSI) | | +----------+---------------------------------------+-----------------+ | 2 | Performance with echo cancellation | [27] | | | **_V_** | | +----------+---------------------------------------+-----------------+ | 3 | Performance with transcoding (G.729A, | [27], [29] | | | G.729B, and G.726 at 32kbps) **_V_** | | +----------+---------------------------------------+-----------------+ | 4 | Performance with packet loss | [27] | | | concealment techniques (G.711 with | | | | dropped 20msec frames -- not more | | | | than 1% frame loss) **_V_** | | +----------+---------------------------------------+-----------------+ | 5 | Performance with other codec types: | [27], [29]\ | | | | [27], [29]\ | | | > 5a) GSM HR **_V_** \ | [27]\ | | | > 5b) EFR **_V_** \ | [27] | | | > 5c) HR AMR **_V_** \ | | | | > 5d) AMR-WB | | +----------+---------------------------------------+-----------------+ | 6 | Performance with additional channel | [27]\ | | | conditions, for codecs used in the | [27], [29] | | | selection test: | | | | | | | | > 6a) different C/I\ | | | | > 6b) AGC variations **_V_** | | +----------+---------------------------------------+-----------------+ | 7 | Varying Channel Conditions | [27] | +----------+---------------------------------------+-----------------+ | 8 | Performance with static jitter buffer | [27] | | | (CSoHS, AoIP, and SIP-I services) | | | | **_V_** | | +----------+---------------------------------------+-----------------+ | 9 | Noisy Conditions | [27] | +----------+---------------------------------------+-----------------+ | 10 | Erroneous Tone Detection | [27] | +----------+---------------------------------------+-----------------+ | 11 | Gaps in transmission due to Handovers | [27] | | | (both Inter-System and Intra-System) | | +----------+---------------------------------------+-----------------+ | 12 | Change of Speech Codec used due | [27] | | | different channel conditions or to an | | | | Inter-System Handover | | +----------+---------------------------------------+-----------------+ | 13 | Sample Slip / Small Delay Variations | [27] | | | at Handover | | +----------+---------------------------------------+-----------------+ | 14 | Combinations of Test Conditions: | [27] | | | | | | | > 14a) GSM HR and HR AMR with | | | | > transcoding (G.729 / G.726) under | | | | > different channel conditions | | | | > | | | | > 14b) CSoHS with transcoding (G.729 | | | | > / G.726) and echo cancellation | | +----------+---------------------------------------+-----------------+
## 5.1 Performance with dynamic jitter buffer
To compensate for packet delay variations in an IP-based transmission line,
typically delay jitter buffers are employed. A static buffer has a fixed delay
between input and output, whereas a dynamic jitter buffer can adapt its delay
according to the statistics of the actual packet delays. The performance of
the eCall modem in such a scenario was tested in the present test item. For
the performance with a static jitter buffer, see clause 5.8.
The employed dynamic jitter buffer is speech frame based, i.e. if the delay is
adapted, it will be extended/decreased always by one complete speech frame
duration. It is bounded by minimum and maximum delays. On start, it has an
initial default delay. The jitter buffer is driven by frame error rates (FER),
i.e. delays will be adapted based on the resulting FER at the buffer output.
This FER is determined over a number of e.g., 200 (relevant) speech frames.
The actual procedure is detailed below.
The jitter buffer is parameterized by the following quantities, where the
values used for the simulations are given in brackets:
> 1\. Initial delay in speech frame durations (20 milliseconds):
> N_BUFFER_DELAY_FRAMES (=2).
>
> 2\. Maximum jitter buffer delay: JIT_BUF_DEL_MAX_FRAMES (=5).
>
> 3\. Minimum jitter buffer delay: JIT_BUF_DEL_MIN_FRAMES (=2).
>
> 4\. Lower threshold of frame error rate (FER) for decreasing the jitter
> buffer delay: FER_LO (=0.005).
>
> 5\. Upper threshold of frame error rate for increasing delay: FER_HI(=0.1).
>
> 6\. Number of relevant cases (packets) the FER is averaged over:
> FER_AVER_LEN (=100).
Please note that all delays are measured relative to the minimal occurring
delay in an actual system.
Packets which have not arrived after the maximum allowed buffer delay
JIT_BUF_DEL_MAX_FRAMES are considered as unavoidable errors. They are not
taken into account for calculating FER statistics. Therefore, the FER as
considered here is the rate of avoidable errors rather than the total frame
error rate.
The rules for jitter buffer adjustment can be briefly described as follows:
\- When starting, the jitter buffer delay in speech frame durations is
N_BUFFER_DELAY_FRAMES.
\- The jitter buffer delay may be changed, i.e. increased or decreased only by
the duration of one speech frame at a time.
\- FER is averaged over a sliding window of the last FER_AVER_LENGTH relevant
frames, where only those frames are considered to be relevant, that are
delayed not more than JIT_BUF_DEL_MAX_FRAMES (that means, only avoidable
errors are accounted for).
\- In normal operation, the buffer delay may only be changed if since the
previous delay change at least FER_AVER_LENGTH relevant frames were counted.
\- Additionally, there is an early-increase feature for the buffer delay: If,
before the collection of at least FER_AVER_LENGTH relevant frames it is sure
that the buffer delay has to be increased afterwards, this increase will be
done directly. With the actual parameterization FER_HI = 0.1 and FER_AVER_LEN
= 200, this would mean that the jitter buffer delay is increased when
ErrorCount = 21.
From the rules above follows also:
\- The minimal time elapsing after a delay change and a following delay
reduction is FER_AVER_LEN.
\- The minimal time elapsing after a delay change and a following delay
increase is FER_AVER_LEN * FER_HI.
Figure 2 shows the temporal evolution of the delay of the deployed jitter
buffer (red) in channel profile #4 from Table 5, cf. [20]. The delays of the
packets are shown in blue.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 2: Packet delays (blue) and time varying delay of the adaptive jitter
buffer (red) with the jitter buffer as described in this clause.
For the eCall characterization phase, adaptive jitter buffers (one on the
uplink and one on the downlink) were integrated into the eCall simulation
framework [7]. The jitter buffer delay may be expressed equivalently by the
jitter buffer size (in speech frames), since incoming IP packets are stored
for the duration of this additional delay. If a packet has not arrived at the
end of this duration, it is considered to be lost. In this case, a loss
concealment technique is applied, which synthesizes a signal replacing the
missing packet. The packet loss concealment technique depends on the applied
speech encoding scheme.
The eCall simulation framework was extended by a VoIP packetizer, a VoIP end-
to-end channel simulator, and a VoIP de-packetizer including a static jitter
buffer as described above. The VoIP packetizer converts the encoded speech
frames to IP packets, where one compressed speech frame of 20 ms per IP packet
is assumed, i.e. either one G.711 A-law [25] encoded 20ms speech frame or two
encoded G.729 [13] 10 ms speech frames per IP packet. The VoIP channel is
modelled by packet losses and varying individual packet delays based on delay
and error profiles [20].
The jitter buffer integration in the test setup is illustrated in Figure 8
(see clause 5.8) for the case of the static jitter buffer. The setup is
equivalent for the dynamic jitter buffer discussed in this clause.
Table 5a lists the different delay and error profiles used for IP jitter
simulation. These profiles combine a large range of delay jitter
characteristics with an additional packet loss probability. All six delay and
error profiles were used for simulation with the G.711 [25] codec. All delay
and error profiles in Tables 5a and 5b represent VoIP over the air channel
conditions, typically exhibiting larger delay variations and higher packet
loss rates than pure network VoIP conditions. Note that in all jitter buffer
simulations, the starting point in the delay error profiles was selected
randomly for each single MSD transmission.
The Figure of Merit for the selection test conditions over the dynamic jitter
buffer profiles is given in Tables 5a and 5b as well. Table 5a contains the
results for the original modem version, while Table 5b represents the updated
modem version. Detailed average transmission times, as well as 95th
percentiles per codec and C/I condition, are given in Tables C.1 -- C.12 in
Annex C.1.
Table 5a: Delay and error profiles [20] used for simulation, and Figure of
Merit\ (original modem version [27])
+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | **Profile** | **Ch |** Packet loss | **Figure of | | | aracteristics** | rate (%)**| Merit (s)** | | | | | | | | | **(Total | | | | | losses)** | | +-------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 1 | Low-amplitude, | 0 | 4.58 | | | static jitter | | | | | ch | | | | | aracteristics,\ | | | | | 1 frame/packet | | | +-------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 2 | Hi-amplitude, | 0.24 | 7.31 | | | semi-static | | | | | jitter | | | | | c | | | | | haracteristics, | | | | | 1 frame/packet | | | +-------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 3 | Low/high/low | 0.51 | 8.88 | | | amplitude, | | | | | changing | | | | | jitter,\ | | | | | 1 frame/packet | | | +-------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 4 | Low | 2.4 | 11.83 | | | /high/low/high, | | | | | changing | | | | | jitter,\ | | | | | 1 frame/packet | | | +-------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 5 | Moderate jitter | 5.9 | 12.44 | | | with occasional | | | | | delay spikes, | | | | | 2 frames/packet | | | +-------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 6 | Moderate jitter | 0.1 | 2.74 | | | with severe | | | | | delay spikes,\ | | | | | 1 frame/packet | | | +-------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
Table 5b: Delay and error profiles [20] used for simulation, and Figure of
Merit\ (updated modem version [29])
* * *
**Profile** **Figure of Merit (s)** 1 5.54 2 5.56 3 6.00 4 9.96 5 10.02 6 4.68
* * *
## 5.2 Performance with echo cancellation
For eCall verification purposes, an echo canceller (EC) has been integrated
into the IVS and PSAP modems. In this setup, the respective input and original
modem output signals represent the two input signals for the echo canceller,
whose output signal defines the modem output signal transmitted on uplink and
downlink.
In the algorithm used for echo cancellation, a normalized Least-Mean-Square
(NLMS) algorithm is employed for adaptive filtering in order to obtain the
acoustic/network coupling and to generate an estimate of the echo. This
estimated echo is subtracted from the echo corrupted signal and the echo
cleaned signal is transmitted to the listener at the other end, thereby
achieving echo-free full-duplex communication.
The main parameter of the echo canceller to tune is the length of the filter.
At a sampling rate of 8 kHz, the filter length was originally set to 64
samples, relating to a filter window of 8 milliseconds. For additional tests,
the filter length was further increased to 160 samples (20 ms).
The performance with echo cancellation was tested in the simulation framework
used for selection testing, and for the unordered test campaign file which
contains 2600 test cases in total. According to the eCall Selection Test Plan,
the signal paths in both uplink and downlink of the simulation chain include
two independent delays, each uniformly distributed between 10 and 30
milliseconds. In order to assess different relations of filter length to delay
ranges, all uplink and downlink delays of the selection test campaign have
further been divided by either a factor of 6 or 15.
Performance results are shown in Table 6.
Table 6: Performance with echo cancellation
* * *
**Channel delay\** EC filter length**** MSD transmission time over 2600 test
cases\  
factor**(selection test campaign)**
                                            **Average (FoM)**                               **95^th^ percentile**
1 64 samples 2.03 s 3.48 s
1/15 64 samples 2.03 s 3.72 s
1/6 160 samples 2.00 s 3.44 s
* * *
As a conclusion, in all three cases no significant impact of the echo
canceller on the modem performance is observed. The Figure of Merit (FoM) is
slightly above 2 seconds and therefore preserves the statistical performance
as without echo cancellation.
The results in this clause were generated with a prototype version of the
eCall modem used in the selection tests. The performance of the specified
reference modem implementation [7] is expected to be very similar to the given
figures.
## 5.3 Performance with transcoding
The simulation framework as used for selection testing already includes a form
of audio impairment in uplink and downlink, prior to and after PSAP
processing: ITU-T G.711 A-Law [25] compression and expansion.
To assess the performance of the eCall modem versions with other transcoding
scenarios, two different configurations are considered:
1) The tandem operation of:
a) ITU-T G.726 Adaptive Differential Pulse Code Modulation (ADPCM) transcoding
[12] at 32 kbit/s, operating on ITU-T G.711 A-law [25] compressed speech
samples as specified;
b) one of the complete set of speech codecs used in the selection test (see
e.g. Table 1);
or
2) the tandem operation of:
a) ITU-T G.729 A/B transcoding by conjugate‑structure algebraic-code-excited
linear prediction (CS-ACELP) [13] at 8 kbit/s, where \"A/B\" indicates one of
the following G.729 variants:
i) ITU-T G.729 Annex A, i.e., the reduced-complexity version of the baseline
G.729 codec;
ii) ITU-T G.729 Annex B, i.e., the baseline G.729 codec additionally employing
a VAD module;
iii) ITU-T G.729 Annex B based on Annex A, i.e., the reduced-complexity
version of the baseline G.729 codec, additionally employing a VAD module;
b) one of the complete set of speech codecs used in the selection test.
The two different transcoding configurations are illustrated in Figures 3 and
4, respectively.
{width="5.999305555555556in" height="3.561111111111111in"}
Figure 3: Transcoding configuration 1: G.711 & G.726 and mobile radio network
codec:\ (a) uplink; (b) downlink
{width="5.997222222222222in" height="3.6881944444444446in"}
Figure 4: Transcoding configuration 2: G.729 and mobile radio network codec:\
(a) uplink; (b) downlink
### 5.3.1 Performance with ITU-T G.711&G.726 transcoding
In the present clause, the eCall modem performance is tested for cases where
the speech frames are transcoded according to ITU-T G.726 [12]. The G.726
speech codec standard is an adaptive differential pulse code modulation scheme
(ADPCM) covering the transmission of voice at rates of 16, 24, 32, and 40
kbit/s. For the eCall verification purposes, the most commonly used mode with
a data rate of 32 kbit/s is applied. G.726 operates on 64 kbit/s A-law or
µ-law PCM data. Nevertheless, in the ADPCM encoder the first operation is the
conversion of the A-law or µ-law PCM input signal to uniform PCM. G.711 A-law
compresses each 320 byte speech frame to a size of 160 byte. The 160 byte
A-law speech frame is compressed by G.726 to 80 byte of ADPCM encoded data.
To assess the performance with G.726 transcoding, the A-law compressed PCM
data is G.726 encoded, and then again G.726 decoded and afterwards G.711 A-law
decoded (see Figure 1). The implementation of the G.726 codec included to the
eCall simulation framework is based on the ITU reference code. The figure of
merit obtained with G.726 transcoding is included in Table 7a.
### 5.3.2 Performance with ITU-T G.729 A/B transcoding
To assess the performance with ITU-T G.729 A/B transcoding, G.711&G.726
processing was replaced by G.729 A/B coding [13] with 8.0 kbit/s as output
data rate. The G.729 codec was used in both uplink and downlink (see Figure
2). All performance results are shown in Tables 7a and 7b.
Table 7a: Figures of merit with G.711&G.726 or G.729 transcoding\ (original
modem version [27])
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > **Codec** | > **Figure of | > **95^th^ | | | > Merit**| > percentile** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > **no transcoding** | > 2.03 s | > 3.54 s | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > **G.711 &G.726** | > 2.11 s | > 3.88 s | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > **G.729 Annex A** | > 3.22 s | > 6.40 s | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > **G.729 Annex B** | > 3.21 s | > 6.40 s | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > **G.729 Annex B | > 3.23 s | > 6.40 s | | > based on Annex A** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 7b: Figures of merit with G.729 transcoding\ (updated modem version
[29])
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > **Codec** | > **Figure of | > **95^th^ | | | > Merit**| > percentile** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > **no transcoding** | > 2.28 s | > 4.16 s | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > **G.729 Annex B | > 3.72 s | > 7.26 s | | > based on Annex A** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
It can be concluded that the two studied transcoding scenarios do not lead to
a significant impairment of the average MSD transmission times.
Detailed average MSD transmission times, as well as 95^th^ percentiles per
codec and C/I condition, are given in Tables C.13 -- C.22 in Annex C.2.
## 5.4 Performance with packet loss concealment techniques
Transmission of speech packets over the packet-switched IP network is tested,
where a certain percentage of the IP packets is lost randomly (but no jitter
is introduced). Lost packets are replaced by concealment techniques specific
for the respective compression scheme. The concealment mechanisms of ITU-T
G.711 A-law [25] compression and G.729 [13] transcoding are tested. The two
test configurations are illustrated in Figures 5 and 6, respectively.
{width="5.997222222222222in" height="5.502083333333333in"}
Figure 5: Packet loss concealment configuration for G.711:\ (a) uplink; (b)
downlink; (c) configuration of IP channel emulator for this test case
{width="5.997222222222222in" height="5.446527777777778in"}
Figure 6: Packet loss concealment configuration for G.729:\ (a) uplink; (b)
downlink; (c) configuration of IP channel emulator for this test case
The performance testing of the modem versions when statistically independent
frame losses occur is very similar to the performance testing with jitter
buffers, which is treated in clause 5.8. Here, packets are erased randomly
with a certain loss probability. Then, the same packet loss concealment
techniques as described in clause 5.8 are applied. In the simulations loss
probabilities of 1 % and 10 % are tested. Again, packet loss concealment
techniques for both G.711 and G.729 A/B were tested, the respective results
are shown in Table 8.
Please note that in all random packet loss simulations the seed of the random
generator is derived from the system clock time prior to the transmission of
every MSD.
Table 8: Figure of merit for packet loss concealment with transcoding
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > **Transcoding;\ | > **Figure of | > **95^th^ | | > Loss probability** | > Merit**| > percentile** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > **ITU-T G.711;\ | > 2.11 s | > 3.90 s | | > 1 %** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > **ITU-T G.711;\ | > 2.73 s | > 4.60 s | | > 10 %** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > **ITU-T G.729 | > 3.35 s | > 6.40 s | | > Annex B based on | | | | > Annex A;\ | | | | > 1 %** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > **ITU-T G.729 | > 4.88 s | > 8.92 s | | > Annex B based on | | | | > Annex A;\ | | | | > 10 %** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 5.5 Performance with other codec types
### 5.5.1 GSM HR
To test the modem's performance over GSM HR speech channels, the ETSI GSM HR
source code version including channel coding and decoding [14] was used. This
special version of the code also includes an Error Insertion Device (EID) in
source code form (MAPEID3.C). Both speech codec and EID were integrated into
the eCall modem test setup. It was ensured (by checking the bit-exactness of
the output of the encoder-decoder chain) that the special version of the GSM
HR codec is identical in its speech coding and decoding function to the
official GSM HR standard [15].
Suitable channel error patterns for this version of the GSM HR codec are also
available from ETSI [16] for the channel conditions C/I = 4, 7, and 10 dB. The
channel error patterns can then be directly used in the simulation framework.
Tables 9a and 9b show transmission time results for the GSM HR, obtained based
on the ETSI error patterns of 8 seconds duration, and for the error-free case.
For each channel condition all 160 possible delays were taken into account,
i.e. 160 MSD messages were transmitted. The error patterns were used in a
cyclic way. No transmission failures (according to the definition in clause
4.1.1) occurred.
Table 9a: MSD transmission times with GSM HR in different channel conditions\
(original modem version [27])
* * *
**Channel condition** **Average** **95^th^ percentile** C/I=4 dB 21.26 s 37.78
s C/I=7 dB 10.68 s 16.52 s C/I=10 dB 7.67 s 8.92 s Error free 6.48 s 8.22 s
* * *
Table 9b: MSD transmission times with GSM HR in different channel conditions\
(updated modem version [29])
* * *
**Channel condition** **Average** **95^th^ percentile** C/I=4 dB 24.02 s 43.40
s C/I=7 dB 13.10 s 22.78 s C/I=10 dB 9.34 s 16.84 s Error free 7.86 s 16.02 s
* * *
The results show that with GSM-HR, significantly increased MSD transmission
times can occur depending on the channel condition. Although the MSD is
eventually successfully transmitted even in bad channels, the use of GSM-HR
should be avoided for eCall emergency data transmission if possible.
### 5.5.2 GSM EFR
The GSM EFR [22] source code (V8.0.1) was taken from [17], and the original
EFR bit mapper was modified to be compliant with the extended IF1 bitstream
format. Static error patterns used during the EFR selection phase [18] were
converted using the corresponding EID (error insertion device) [19] into
residual bit errors and/or packet losses, to form extended IF1 error patterns
for eCall. The EFR error patterns are different from those for AMR 12.2 since
the channel coding is different for the EFR and AMR speech channels. Finally,
the eCall test setup [7] was used to test the following EFR conditions, as
shown in Table 10.
Table 10: Tested channel conditions for EFR and AMR 12.2
* * *
**Codec Type** **EFR** **AMR** **Codec Mode Radio condition** **12.2**
**12.2** C/I = 1 dB X  
C/I = 4 dB X  
C/I = 7 dB X X C/I = 10 dB X X C/I = 13 dB X X C/I = 16 dB X  
error free X X
* * *
For information the residual bit error rate (RBER) and frame error rate (FER)
for the EFR error patterns are given below in Table 11. It should be noted
that the error rates for AMR and EFR are not directly comparable since the
underlying error patterns were generated in different link-level simulations.
Table 11: RBER and FER statistics for the EFR and AMR error patterns
* * *
**Error Pattern** **Statistics for EFR error pattern** **Statistics for
AMR12.2 error pattern**  
**RBER (%)** **FER (%)** **RBER (%)** **FER (%)** C/I = 1 dB 16.7 65.5 - - C/I
= 4 dB 5.98 21.8 - - C/I = 7 dB 2.31 4.02 2.78 7.68 C/I = 10 dB 1.05 0.19 1.00
1.57 C/I = 13 dB 0.47 0 0.18 0.10 C/I = 16 dB 0.18 0 - -
* * *
EFR transmission time results for the eCall modem can be found in Tables 12a
and 12b (for comparison, those AMR 12.2 results have been added to Table 12a
that were tested in the selection phase). The performance is not affected in
good or error-free channel conditions. 98% of MSD transmissions over EFR
succeeded in the C/I=1dB condition; in all other conditions, the MSD
transmissions were 100% successful.
Table 12a: Performance of eCall modem with EFR and AMR 12.2:\ average MSD
transmission times and 95% confidence intervals\ (original modem version [27])
* * *
**Channel condition** **AMR12.2*** **EFR12.2**  
**Average** **95^th^ perc.** **Average** **95^th^ perc.** C/I=1 dB 46.55 110.2
C/I=4 dB 2.73 4.82 C/I=7 dB 1.92 2.08 1.66 1.74 C/I=10 dB 1.49 1.74 1.36 1.36
C/I=13 dB 1.36 1.36 1.35 1.35 C/I=16 dB 1.35 1.36 Error free 1.36 1.36 1.35
1.36
* * *
*: Since a different simulation campaign file was used,\ the results for AMR 12.2 are slightly different compared to Table 1.
Table 12b: Performance of eCall modem with EFR and AMR 12.2:\ average MSD
transmission times and 95% confidence intervals\ (updated modem version [29])
* * *
**Channel condition** **EFR12.2**  
**Average** **95^th^ perc.** C/I=4 dB 3.41 5.32 C/I=7 dB 2.04 2.40 C/I=10 dB
1.65 1.98 Error free 1.51 1.52
* * *
Despites differences in channel coding, the performance of the eCall inband
modem with AMR 12.2 and GSM EFR is quite similar for high C/I; some divergence
can be observed at low C/I.
### 5.5.3 HR AMR
The HR AMR employs the same speech codecs than the FR AMR [23], but only the
six lowest modes (4.75 up to 7.95 kbit/s). The channel coding is however much
weaker so that the encoded data can be transmitted within a half-rate channel
of 11.4 kbit/s.
In the eCall test setup framework, the HR AMR performance can be analyzed by
only replacing the error patterns and leaving the originally implemented AMR
speech codec unchanged. Residual error patterns in IF1 format were generated
by link-level simulations of the HR AMR speech transmission. These patterns
are of duration 600 s. The channel conditions were taken from the set C/I = 4,
7, and 10 dB. It should be noted that for error-free channels, the results are
identical to those presented for the AMR full rate channel (see Table 1),
since the channel coding does not have any effect in this case.
For the HR AMR channels, a total of 1800 test cases were simulated, 100 for
each combination of codec mode and C/I value. Table 13 comprises results
obtained with the eCall modem. The overall figure of merit is 4.7049 seconds,
no timeouts occurred.
Table 13: MSD transmission times in s for HR AMR individually per codec mode
and C/I value
* * *
             **C/I = 4 dB**   **C/I = 7 dB**     **C/I = 10 dB**   **error-free**                                                    
             **average**      **95^th^ perc.**   **average**       **95^th^ perc.**   **average**   **95^th^ perc.**   **average**   **maximum**
AHS 7.95 7.83 17.00 4.23 10.82 2.45 4.08 1.49 1.68 AHS 7.40 5.94 12.70 3.74
11.36 2.36 4.44 1.50 1.68 AHS 6.70 7.71 17.00 4.43 9.10 2.80 4.06 1.85 2.04
AHS 5.90 7.31 15.00 4.43 7.64 2.82 4.06 2.04 2.40 AHS 5.15 8.42 16.92 5.13
8.72 3.95 5.66 2.48 3.80 AHS 4.75 8.67 16.42 5.76 8.72 4.03 4.98 3.10 3.80
* * *
The results show that the employment of HR AMR channels can lead to slightly
increased MSD transmission times, but these increases are not severe.
### 5.5.4 AMR-WB
The eCall test setup described in [8] was run on a single computer. Since AMR-
WB [24] operates at a sampling frequency of 16 kHz, it was necessary to adapt
the eCall emitted and received signals (with sampling frequency of 8 kHz). The
input/output of the AMR-WB codecs were therefore modified to include a
resampling operation. A 58-order symmetric FIR filter with 59 coefficients was
designed with cut off frequency near half-band. The frequency response of this
filter is illustrated in Figure 7.
{width="2.865972222222222in" height="2.384027777777778in"}
Figure 7: Frequency response of half-band filter
The upsampling and downsampling operations were implemented in the standard
way (zero insertion-filtering and filtering-interleaved sample selection,
respectively). Note that there are four possible polyphase combinations for
the entire resampling operations (even/even, even/odd, odd/even, odd/odd
samples). It was verified that the results are equivalent in all four cases,
so only one combination will be used for the entire tests with AMR-WB.
The employed error patterns for AMR-WB at 6.6, 8.85 and 12.65 kbit/s on GSM
channels for C/I=4, 7, 10, 13, 16 and in the error-free case include 29,999
frames with the AMR-WB bitstream frame (hard bits) followed by a bad frame
indicator. They were converted to the extended IF1 format used in [8]. No
error patterns were available to test higher AMR-WB modes in channel error
conditions. Therefore all modes above 12.65 kbit/s were tested in the error-
free case. The FER and residual BER for the different AMR-WB rates and C/I
values are shown in Table 14.
Table 14: FER/BER for AMR-WB error patterns
* * *
**AMR-WB mode** **C/I (dB)** **FER (%)** **BER (%)** **6.60** **19** 0.17 0.04
**16** 0.69 0.16 **13** 2.40 0.61 **10** 6.51 1.85 **7** 14.26 4.39 **4**
27.05 8.84 **8.85** **19** 0.25 0.07 **16** 1.01 0.27 **13** 3.22 0.91 **10**
7.93 2.38 **7** 16.60 5.31 **4** 30.17 10.23 **12.65** **19** 0.63 0.14 **16**
1.95 0.46 **13** 5.37 1.34 **10** 11.87 3.17 **7** 22.69 6.55 **4** 38.23
11.77
* * *
The AMR-WB codec was modified in order to use Windows pipes instead of
input/output files. It was also necessary to adapt the bitstream format to the
extended IF1 format used in the eCall test setup [26]. The unused \"13\" frame
type was used for the eCall test setup to recognize AMR-WB bitstreams. The
AMR-WB mode was passed into the 5 spare bits in the mode indication.
Performance results with AMR-WB are shown in Tables 15 and 16. Note that the
MSD transmission was successful in 100% of the tests.
Table 15: MSD transmission times (in s) for AMR-WB in the error-free case
* * *
**MSD transmission time** **AMR-WB mode (kb/s)**  
**23.85** **23.05** **19.85** **18.25** **15.85** **14.25** **12.65** **8.85**
**6.60** **_Average_** **1.36** **1.36** **1.36** **1.36** **1.36** **1.36**
**1.36** **1.36** **1.73** **_95th perc._** **1.38** **_1.38_** **_1.38_**
**_1.38_** **_1.38_** **_1.38_** **_1.36_** **_1.38_** **_1.76_**
**_Maximum_** 1.38 1.38 1.38 1.38 1.38 1.38 1.38 1.38 1.76
* * *
Table 16: MSD transmission times (in s) for AMR-WB
* * *
**Channel condition,\** MSD transmission time**** AMR-WB mode (kb/s)**  
radio modulation**
                                                      **12.65**                **8.85**     **6.60**
**C/I=19dB\**_Average_**1.36 1.38 1.74 GMSK**
                          ***95th perc.***            1.38                     1.38         1.76
                          ***Maximum***               1.72                     2.98         2.08
**C/I=16dB\**_Average_****_1.44_****_1.50_****_1.75_**GMSK**
                          ***95th perc.***            **1.74**                 **1.76**     **1.76**
                          ***Maximum***               2.96                     2.98         2.08
**C/I=13dB\**_Average_**** 1.55**** 1.55**** 1.83**GMSK**
                          ***95th perc.***            **2.08**                 **2.1**      **2.08**
                          ***Maximum***               3.76                     3.36         3.34
**C/I=10dB\**_Average_**** 2.04**** 1.85**** 2.10**GMSK**
                          ***95th perc.***            **3.36**                 **2.98**     **3.36**
                          ***Maximum***               13.56                    4.54         4.84
**C/I=7dB\**_Average_**** 2.64**** 2.44**** 2.54**GMSK**
                          ***95th perc.***            **4.56**                 **4.44**     **4.04**
                          ***Maximum***               13.44                    6.56         15.72
**C/I=4dB\**_Average_**** 5.31**** 4.60**** 4.60**GMSK**
                          ***95th perc.***            **13.68**                **9.44**     **9.4**
                          ***Maximum***               25.32                    39.74        19.54
* * *
The 95^th^ percentiles presented in Tables 15 and 16 is the time that is
exceeded by only 5% of measured transmission times.
From Tables 15 and 16 it appears that the MSD transmission time is below 4s,
except the C/I=4 dB case.
## 5.6 Performance with additional channel conditions
### 5.6.1 Different C/I
A number of additional conditions to be tested are reproduced in Table 17\.
'X' shows conditions included in the selection test plan. '#' and '(#)' shows
additional operating conditions that should be evaluated, where the conditions
indicated by '(#)' represent better channel conditions than those tested in
the selection. All radio conditions except the error-free case are represented
by error patterns in the test framework. Therefore, this verification item
relies on the availability of suitable error patterns.
Table 17: Additional codec and channel conditions for eCall evaluation
**Codec Type** | **GSM FR** | **FR AMR** |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**Codec Mode** **Radio condition** | **13.0** | **12.2** | **10.2** | **7.95** | **7.4** | **6.7** | **5.9** | **5.15** | **4.75**  
C/I = 1 dB |  |  |  |  |  |  | # | # | X  
C/I = 4 dB |  |  |  |  | # | # | X | X | X  
C/I = 7 dB | X | X | X | X | X | X | X | X | X  
C/I = 10 dB | X | X | X | X | X | (#) | (#) | (#) | (#)  
C/I = 13 dB | X | X | X | (#) | (#) | (#) | (#) |  |   
C/I = 16 dB | X | (#) | (#) |  |  |  |  |  |   
**error free** | **X** | **X** | **(#)** | **(#)** | **(#)** | **(#)** | **(#)** | **(#)** | **(#)**  
RSSI = -100 dBm | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | X  
RSSI = -95 dBm | (#) | # |  |  |  |  |  |  | (#)  
RSSI = -90 dBm | (#) | # |  |  |  |  |  |  | (#)  
For the error-free test conditions (indicated by bold face in Table 17), a
verification has been carried out. The following results have been derived:
Table 18: MSD transmission times for tested speech codecs in error-free
conditions
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Codec (error |** Average MSD | > **Maximum MSD | | free)** | transmission time**| > transmission | | | | > time** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | FR | 1.33 s | > 1.66 s | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | AMR 12.2 | 1.33 s | > 1.34 s | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | AMR 10.2 | 1.33 s | > 1.34 s | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | AMR 7.95 | 1.49 s | > 1.68 s | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | AMR 7.4 | 1.50 s | > 1.68 s | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | AMR 6.7 | 1.85 s | > 2.04 s | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | AMR 5.9 | 2.04 s | > 2.40 s | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | AMR 5.15 | 2.48 s | > 3.80 s | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | AMR 4.75 | 3.10 s | > 3.80 s | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 19 contains the average MSD transmission times for the other additional
test conditions from Table 17.
Table 19: Average MSD transmission times (in s) for additional test conditions
* * *
                      **GSM FR**   **FR AMR**                                                                     
                      **13.0**     **12.2**     **10.2**   **7.95**   **7.4**    **6.7**    **5.9**    **5.15**   **4.75**
**C/I = 1dB** **-** **-** **-** **-** **-** **-** **2.78** **3.45** **-**
**C/I = 4dB** **-** **-** **-** **-** **1.99** **2.11** **-** **-** **-**
**C/I = 7dB** **-** **-** **-** **-** **-** **-** **-** **-** **-** **C/I =
10dB** **-** **-** **-** **-** **-** **1.91** **2.10** **2.55** **3.09** **C/I
= 13dB** **-** **-** **-** **1.51** **1.48** **1.81** **2.10** **-** **-**
**C/I = 16dB** **-** **1.40** **1.39** **-** **-** **-** **-** **-** **-**
**RSSI = -95dBm** **1.54** **1.43** **-** **-** **-** **-** **-** **-**
**3.16** **RSSI = -90dBm** **1.53** **1.47** **-** **-** **-** **-** **-**
**-** **3.10**
* * *
For information, Table 20 summarizes the average transmission times for all
the codec and C/I combinations that have been studied in the selection and
verification/characterization tests.
Table 20a: Average MSD transmission times (in s) for all studied test
conditions\ (original modem version [27])
* * *
                       **GSM FR**   **FR AMR**                                                                     
                       **13.0**     **12.2**     **10.2**   **7.95**   **7.4**    **6.7**    **5.9**    **5.15**   **4.75**
**C/I = 1dB** **-** **-** **-** **-** **-** **-** **2.78** **3.45** 4.07 **C/I
= 4dB** **-** **-** **-** **-** **1.99** **2.11** 2.41 3.10 3.38 **C/I = 7dB**
2.29 1.91 1.80 1.69 1.68 2.01 2.10 2.57 3.12 **C/I = 10dB** 1.66 1.53 1.42
1.56 1.59 **1.91** **2.10** **2.55** **3.09** **C/I = 13dB** 1.45 1.36 1.36
**1.51** **1.48** **1.81** **2.10** **-** **-** **C/I = 16dB** 1.39 **1.40**
**1.39** **-** **-** **-** **-** **-** **-** **RSSI = -100dBm** 1.50 **-**
**-** **-** **-** **-** **-** **-** **-** **RSSI = -95dBm** **1.54** **1.43**
**-** **-** **-** **-** **-** **-** **3.16** **RSSI = -90dBm** **1.53**
**1.47** **-** **-** **-** **-** **-** **-** **3.10** **error free** 1.33 1.33
**1.33** **1.49** **1.50** **1.85** **2.04** **2.48** 3.10
* * *
Table 20b: Average MSD transmission times (in s) for all studied test
conditions\ (updated modem version [29])
* * *
                       **GSM FR**   **FR AMR**                                                                  
                       **13.0**     **12.2**     **10.2**   **7.95**   **7.4**   **6.7**   **5.9**   **5.15**   **4.75**
**C/I = 1dB** 4.56 **C/I = 4dB** 3.54 3.54 3.65 **C/I = 7dB** 2.51 2.34 2.40
1.95 1.94 2.40 2.41 2.91 3.39 **C/I = 10dB** 1.90 1.73 1.98 1.74 1.77  
**C/I = 13dB** 1.60 1.53 1.52  
**C/I = 16dB** 1.59  
**RSSI = -100dBm** 1.68  
**error free** 1.52 1.51 3.41
* * *
### 5.6.2 AGC variations
To assess the impact of a possibly misadjusted automatic gain control (AGC) or
other linear scaling due to transmission over analogue telephone lines, the
input signals to the IVS and PSAP receivers are multiplied with constant gain
factors and then mapped again on PCM values. Signal amplitudes exceeding the
16-bit PCM range are clipped. Simulations have been carried out with gain
factors in the range from -27 dB to +30 dB. Tables 21a and 21b comprise the
respective figures of merit and the numbers of timeouts.
Table 21a: Figure of merit and number of timeouts for different AGC scaling
factors\ (original modem version [27])
+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Gain** | **Amplitude | > **Figure | > **95^th^ | > | | | scaling | > of merit | > p | **Fraction | | | factor**| > / | ercentile** | > of | | | | > seconds**| | > | | | | | | timeouts** | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | -27 dB | 0.0442 | > 14.8764 | > (timeout) | > 143/2600 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | -24 dB | 0.0625 | > 3.3807 | > 4.60 | > 8/2600 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | -18 dB | 0.125 | > 2.0455 | > 3.52 | > 0 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | -12 dB | 0.25 | > 1.9872 | > 3.52 | > 0 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | -9 dB | 0.3534 | > 2.0063 | > 3.52 | > 0 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | -6 dB | 0.5 | > 2.0173 | > 3.52 | > 0 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | -3 dB | 0.7071 | > 2.0271 | > 3.54 | > 0 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | +3 dB | 1.4142 | > 2.0350 | > 3.52 | > 0 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | +6 dB | 2.0 | > 2.0373 | > 3.54 | > 0 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | +12 dB | 4.0 | > 2.2603 | > 4.60 | > 0 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | +18 dB | 8.0 | > 3.7205 | > 13.06 | > 0 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | +24 dB | 16 | > 5.5379 | > 14.46 | > 0 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | +30 dB | 32 | > 7.0306 | > 17.88 | > 0 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 21b: Figure of merit and number of timeouts for different AGC scaling
factors\ (updated modem version [29])
+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Gain** | **Amplitude | > **Figure | > **95^th^ | > | | | scaling | > of merit | > p | **Fraction | | | factor**| > / | ercentile** | > of | | | | > seconds**| | > | | | | | | timeouts** | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | -27 dB | 0.0442 | > 21.0611 | > (timeout) | > 219/2600 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | -24 dB | 0.0625 | > 3.9133 | > 5.48 | > 10/2600 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | -18 dB | 0.125 | > 2.2943 | > 3.72 | > 0 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | -12 dB | 0.25 | > 2.2236 | > 4.14 | > 0 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | -9 dB | 0.3534 | > 2.2508 | > 4.16 | > 0 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | -6 dB | 0.5 | > 2.2671 | > 4.16 | > 0 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | -3 dB | 0.7071 | > 2.2744 | > 4.16 | > 0 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | +3 dB | 1.4142 | > 2.2804 | > 4.16 | > 0 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | +6 dB | 2.0 | > 2.2800 | > 4.16 | > 0 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | +12 dB | 4.0 | > 2.5643 | > 5.04 | > 0 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | +18 dB | 8.0 | > 4.3168 | > 15.28 | > 0 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | +24 dB | 16 | > 9.0589 | > 18.38 | > 0 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | +30 dB | 32 | > 13.1571 | > 27.24 | > 2/2600 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
The eCall modem is very robust against both up- and downscaling. For gains in
the range from -18 dB to +24 dB, no transmission failures occurred.
## 5.7 Varying channel conditions
### 5.7.1 Description of test setup
The eCall test setup described in [2] was run on a single computer. The main
change compared to [2] was the creation of new error patterns to represent
typical varying channel conditions. The generated error patterns are listed in
Table 22. There are 8 varying conditions for the AMR codec (one for each
mode), one varying condition for the GSM FR codec, and one varying condition
for the GSM EFR codec. A time period of 400ms was selected for channel
adaptation. This figure of 400 ms describes reasonably well slow channel
fading and allows changing channel conditions several times during one eCall
data transfer (\ AMR12.2 (GSM)**  
FR AMR 12.2 GSM C/I=7dB **12.92** _13.34_ 31.44 FR AMR 12.2 GSM C/I=10dB
**11.71** _11.76_ 30.38 FR AMR 12.2 GSM C/I=13dB **11.37** _11.38_ 11.76 FR
AMR 12.2 Error free **11.36** _11.38_ 11.40 **AMR 12.2 (GSM) - > FR (GSM)**  
AMR 12.2 FR GSM C/I=10dB **11.86** _12.1_ 30.34 AMR 12.2 FR GSM C/I=13dB
**11.45** _11.74_ 12.12 AMR 12.2 FR GSM C/I=7dB **12.60** _14.08_ 31.04 AMR
12.2 FR Error free **11.37** _11.36_ 11.74 **EFR (GSM) - > AMR 12.2 (GSM)**  
EFR AMR 12.2 Error free **11.36** _11.38_ 11.40 EFR AMR 12.2 GSM C/I=10dB
**11.94** _11.76_ 31.06 EFR AMR 12.2 GSM C/I=13 dB **11.36** _11.38_ 11.74 EFR
AMR 12.2 GSM C/I=7dB **12.01** _12.48_ 13.70 **AMR 12.2 (GSM) - > EFR (GSM)**  
AMR 12.2 EFR Error free **12.67** _30.36_ 30.38 AMR 12.2 EFR GSM C/I=10dB
**12.87** _30.36_ 30.38 AMR 12.2 EFR GSM C/I=13dB **12.11** _11.36_ 30.38 AMR
12.2 EFR GSM C/I=7dB **13.49** _30.36_ 31.46 **AMR (GSM) - > AMR (GSM) with
mode change**  
AMR 12.2 AMR 7.4 GSM C/I=10dB **1.66** _1.74_ 1.74 AMR 7.4 AMR 12.2 GSM C/I=10
dB **1.68** _1.74_ 1.76 AMR 7.4 AMR 5.9 GSM C/I=7dB **1.87** _2.08_ 2.10 AMR
5.9 AMR 7.4 GSM C/I=7dB **1.94** _2.08_ 2.10 AMR 5.9 AMR 4.75 GSM C/I=4dB
**2.87** _3.5_ 3.52 AMR 4.75 AMR 5.9 GSM C/I=4dB **2.61** _2.82_ 3.16 **AMR
12.2 (GSM) - > AMR 12.2 (GSM)**  
AMR 12.2 AMR 12.2 GSM C/I=7dB **2.31** _2.44_ 31.04 AMR 12.2 AMR 12.2 GSM
C/I=10dB **1.61** _1.74_ 2.08 AMR 12.2 AMR 12.2 GSM C/I=13dB **1.37** _1.36_
1.76 AMR 12.2 AMR 12.2 Error free **1.35** _1.36_ 1.38 **AMR 12.2 (GSM) - > HR
(GSM)**  
AMR 12.2 HR Error free **_16.28_** _16.76_ 18.56 AMR 12.2 HR GSM C/I=10dB
**_17.90_** _19.32_ 31.72 AMR 12.2 HR GSM C/I=7dB **22.14** _28.52_ 37 **HR
(GSM) - > AMR 12.2 (GSM)**  
HR AMR 12.2 Error free **11.36** _11.38_ _11.38_ HR AMR 12.2 GSM C/I=10dB
**_12.48_** _14.16_ 31.34 HR AMR 12.2 GSM C/I=7dB **18.19** _49.84_ 51.84
* * *
## 5.13 Sample slip / small delay variations at handover
In this scenario, the eCall modem confronts a loss of synchronization in the
stream of data due to a handover. The conditions tested for this scenario are:
Simple Shift, from Left to Right
Double Shift, from Left to Right
Simple Shift, from Right to Left
Double Shift, from Right to Left
Where a simple shift means a 1 sample shift and a double shift means a 2
sample shift. Apart from these 4 subgroups, the tests were carried out for
handover periods (intervals between successive handovers) of 2, 5 and 10
seconds. Each handover, during which the sample slip exclusively occurs, has a
duration of 1 second.
The average MSD transmission times (FoM) for the selection test campaign with
the above sample slip scenarios are summarized in Table 38. More detailed
data, including individual results per codec / channel condition as well as
95^th^ percentiles, is collected in Annex C.3.
Table 38: Average MSD transmission times (in s) for sample slip scenarios
* * *
**Scenario** **Handover period**  
**2 s** **5 s** **10 s** Simple Shift, from Left to Right _4.97_ _4.22_ _4.23_
Double Shift, from Left to Right _7.23_ _4.89_ _4.76_ Simple Shift, from Right
to Left _5.41_ _4.26_ _4.17_ Double Shift, from Right to Left _5.19_ _4.13_
_4.08_
* * *
## 5.14 Combinations of test conditions
### 5.14.1 GSM HR and HR AMR with transcoding (G.729 / G.726) under different
channel conditions
In this test case, the eCall modem performance is tested under the use of the
AMR-HR and GSM-HR speech codecs in conjunction with G726 and G729a transcoding
for a set of different channel conditions.
The numerical results are presented in the Tables 39 to 42 below:
Table 39: Average MSD transmission times (in s) for half rate transmission and
G.726 transcoding
* * *
**Channel condition** **Average MSD transmission time (in seconds)**  
**GSM HR** **HR AMR 7.95** **HR AMR 7.4** **HR AMR 6.7** **HR AMR 5.9** **HR
AMR 5.15** **HR AMR 4.75** **C/I = 4dB** **21.986** **11.6108** **6.5652**
**9.0782** **8.5632** **9.1428** **8.6566** **C/I = 7dB** **10.908**
**4.4642** **5.1306** **4.0282** **5.0374** **5.3208** **5.5692** **C/I =
10dB** **7.584** **3.1616** **2.3694** **2.9216** **3.3288** **3.8966**
**4.3154**
* * *
Table 40: 95^th^ percentile MSD transmission times (in s) for half rate
transmission and G.726 transcoding
* * *
**Channel condition** **Average MSD transmission time (in seconds)**  
**GSM HR** **HR AMR 7.95** **HR AMR 7.4** **HR AMR 6.7** **HR AMR 5.9** **HR
AMR 5.15** **HR AMR 4.75** **C/I = 4dB** **37.62** **37.28** **24.02**
**34.6** **20.72** **22.36** **21.36** **C/I = 7dB** **16.54** **15.46**
**16.32** **9.54** **11.8** **14** **8.82** **C/I = 10dB** **8.94** **6.88**
**4.28** **4.64** **5.78** **5.79** **5.84**
* * *
Table 41: Average MSD transmission times (in s) for half rate transmission and
G.729a transcoding
* * *
**Channel condition** **Average MSD transmission time (in seconds)**  
**GSM HR** **HR AMR 7.95** **HR AMR 7.4** **HR AMR 6.7** **HR AMR 5.9** **HR
AMR 5.15** **HR AMR 4.75** **C/I = 4dB** **173.458** **10.94** **7.972**
**12.944** **14.728** **20.576** **23.272** **C/I = 7dB** **30.06** **5.38**
**4.52** **6.382** **7.056** **8.576** **9.948** **C/I = 10dB** **23.082**
**4.1** **3.24** **4.982** **4.55** **6.314** **6.896**
* * *
Table 42: 95^th^ percentile MSD transmission times (in s) for half rate
transmission and G.729a transcoding
* * *
**Channel condition** **Average MSD transmission time (in seconds)**  
**GSM HR** **HR AMR 7.95** **HR AMR 7.4** **HR AMR 6.7** **HR AMR 5.9** **HR
AMR 5.15** **HR AMR 4.75** **C/I = 4dB** **200** **23.22** **18.14** **40.52**
**38.8** **40.9** **42.28** **C/I = 7dB** **47.12** **8.96** **7.74**
**13.32** **10.96** **15.32** **18.52** **C/I = 10dB** **34.78** **5.92**
**4.8** **7.74** **7** **8.26** **8.36**
* * *
### 5.14.2 CSoHS with transcoding (G.729a / G.711) and echo cancellation
This scenario reflects the situation in which the MSD transmission performed
by the eCall modem suffers from the effects of an Echo Canceller presence (see
clause 5.2) and the variable delays of a CSoHS environment with static jitter
buffer of length 40 ms (see clause 5.8). The eCall modem performance has been
tested with regular transcoding (G711 case) or G729a (see clause 5.3) in
conjunction with a couple of delay profiles, as defined in [20]. The numerical
results (average MSD transmission times for the codec and C/I conditions used
in the selection test) can be found in Table 43 below:
Table 43: Figures of Merit (in s) over all codecs and C/I conditions used in
the selection test with transcoding, CSoHS jitter buffer (length 40 ms), and
echo canceller
* * *
**Delay/Error Profile [20]** **Transcoding**  
**G.711** **G.729a** **3** 2.3666 3.9841 **4** 2.3279 3.8767 **5** 2.3254
3.8551 **6** 2.3260 3.8440
* * *
More detailed results per codec and C/I condition, as well as 95^th^
percentile transmission times, can be found in clause C.4.
###### ### Annex A: eCall test setup
Figure A.1 shows the physical setup during the host lab selection test
session. The design of the test setup software [7] is, however, such, that all
EXE modules could also be hosted by one PC.
{width="4.853472222222222in" height="4.438194444444444in"}
Figure A.1: Physical test setup for eCall (arrows indicate direction of
connection establishment)
The candidate IVS.EXE and the candidate PSAP.EXE are physically connected
through the test control PC in order to allow monitoring and logging of the
PCM data streams between them and to allow real time processing. Per default
no logging will take place ad the processing will run as fast as possible,
typically much faster than real time.
For this discussion, the test executables are CONTROL.EXE and CHANNEL.EXE
(UPLINK and DOWNLINK have similar functionality and are simply different
instances of the same executable), and the candidate modem executables are
PSAP.EXE and IVS.EXE. Refer to Figure A.2 for the logical test setup.
{width="5.322222222222222in" height="4.21875in"}
Figure A.2: Logical Test Setup for eCall Candidate Selection
A.1 Specification of the Test Control
The test shall be repeatable in a bit exact manner. Therefore the test control
parameters are stored in one **Test Configuration** table, which is used
identically for each candidate. Each candidate modem will be tested with the
same ASCII Test Configuration table so that each tested modem uses the same
set of data and same channel conditions.
The Speech Codec (Encoder/Decoder and Codec Mode) is identical for uplink &
downlink.
The error patterns are in general different in uplink and downlink, at least
the start indices are different. Each error pattern will last 10 minutes
(repeat if necessary). The start index is a randomly generated offset for each
test run to the beginning of the error pattern between 0-10 minutes, in 20 ms
granularity. The offset will be uniformly distributed across the whole error
pattern. If during testing, the end of the pattern is reached, the index will
wrap around to the beginning of the error pattern.
The test control block fetches each line of data from the Test Configuration
table, sets constants, and performs resets of all other blocks. A line of data
in the Test Configuration table corresponds to the parameters for one trial.
Entries in the Test Configuration table are listed in 13 columns:
Index MSD Codec_Type Codec_Mode VAD UL_delay1 UL_delay2 UL_EP UL_EP_index\
DL_delay1 DL_delay2 DL_EP DL_EP_index.
Index is a running number between [1 , 2600] identifying the individual test
run.
All audio frames between IVS and PSAP flow through the test control block.
There is no direct physical connection from PSAP or IVS to the uplink
processing or downlink processing.
## A.1.1 Measurement of the MSD transmission time
The test control block will monitor the PCM output frames of the IVS. The
first non-zero PCM output frame after re-initialisation will start the timer
for delivery of the MSD. The control block then counts the number of IVS
output frames and for each adds 20 ms to the timer. The timer stops when the
PSAP finishes delivering the completed MSD to the test control block or after
200 seconds (200 * 50 IVS output frames), whichever comes first. The timer
value is the desired MSD transmission time and is stored as Elapsed_time.
The received MSD is checked bit by bit against the sent MSD from the control
table. The result is stored as Success_failure_flag ("S" or "F"). The
Received_MSD is stored for debugging purposes.
The result of the test trial shall be stored in the next sequential row of the
output table. The output table shall take the following form, listed in 16
columns:
Index MSD Codec_Type Codec_Mode VAD UL_delay1 UL_delay2 UL_EP UL_EP_index\
DL_delay1 DL_delay2 DL_EP DL_EP_index\ Elapsed_time Success_failure_flag
Received_MSD.
The above process is then repeated for the next trial until the data in the
Test Configuration table is exhausted.
A second test is to test for false detection. Each candidate provides its own
trigger. The IVS will be tested separately for false detection, 30-minutes of
speech and 30-minutes of tone). The host lab reports the number of false
detections.
A.2 PCM Interface Specification
All PCM Interfaces between IVS, Uplink-processing, PSAP, Downlink_processing
and the Test_Control use 16 bit linear PCM. The value representation is Q15,
i.e. the most significant bit is the sign bit, the next 15 bits represent the
sample value in the range of [0, 32767 / 32768], normalized to the overload
point of the A/D converter: fixed point arithmetic.
In case an output variable of a processing block would be greater than or
lower than Q15 can represent, the value of that variable is limited to the
maximum respectively minimum of Q15.
A.3 Specification of Uplink processing
*** UL Reset function** defines UL_delay1 for the 1st block and UL_delay2 for
the 6th block, Codec Type, Codec Mode, error pattern for uplink (UL_EP), start
index for error pattern (UL_EP_index).
The Reset for the uplink processing blocks simulates a new call setup for each
test run. All filter variables and delay buffer memories are cleared to
0x0000. The Speech Encoder and Decoder are set into their Home States.
*** UL Processing function:**
Input interface: 16 bit linear PCM, 8 KHz sampling in blocks of 20 ms.
1st block: constant, definable delay of 10-30 ms (uniformly distributed
between 80-239 (0-based indexing) samples). Figure A.3 shows the delay in
context of the overall 2-way delay.\ UL_Delay1 is randomly chosen by the host
lab, but constant for each test trial.
2nd block: speech encoder
3rd block: error insertion device
4th block: speech decoder
5th block: audio impairment: band pass filter, G.711 A-law encoder-decoder
[25]
6th block: constant, definable delay of 10-30 ms (uniformly distributed
between 80-239 (0-based indexing) samples). Figure A.3 shows the delay in
context of the overall 2-way delay.\ UL_Delay2 is randomly chosen by the host
lab, but constant for each test trial.
Output interface: 16 bit linear PCM, 8 KHz sampling in blocks of 20 ms.
{width="6.675694444444445in" height="3.535416666666667in"}
Figure A.3: Uplink and Downlink Processing Function Delay Blocks
A.4 Specification of downlink processing blocks
*** DL Reset function** defines DL_delay1 for the 2nd block, DL_delay2 for the
6th block, Codec Type, Codec Mode, error pattern for downlink (DL_EP), start
index for error pattern (DL_EP_index).
The Reset for the downlink processing blocks simulates a new call setup for
each test run. All filter variables and delay buffer memories are cleared to
0x0000. The Speech Encoder and Decoder are set into their Home States.
*** DL Processing function:**
Input interface: 16 bit linear PCM, 8 KHz sampling in blocks of 20 ms.
1st block: audio impairment: band pass filter, G.711 A-law encoder-decoder
[25]
2nd block: constant, definable delay of 10-30 ms (uniformly distributed
between 80-239 (0-based indexing) samples). Figure A.3 shows the delay in
context of the overall 2-way delay.\ DL_Delay1 is randomly chosen by the host
lab, but constant for each test trial.
3rd block: speech encoder
4th block: error insertion device
5th block: speech decoder
6th block: constant delay of 10-30 ms (uniformly distributed between 80-239
(0-based indexing) samples). Figure A.3 shows the delay in context of the
overall 2-way delay.
DL_Delay2 is randomly chosen by the host lab, but constant for each test
trial.
Output interface: 16 bit linear PCM, 8 KHz sampling in blocks of 20 ms.
A.5 Specification of IVS
*** IVS Reset function:** The Control block sends the MSD, taken from the test
control table, to the IVS at every start of a test run. The IVS then performs
its internal re-initialization.
*** IVS Processing function:**
Input interface: 16 bit linear PCM, 8 KHz sampling in blocks of 20 ms.
The IVS gets its input data from the downlink processing (via the test control
block).
After reception of the next 20ms block the IVS processes this block and
delivers a next 20ms block to the uplink processing (via the test control
block).
Output interface: 16 bit linear PCM, 8 KHz sampling in blocks of 20 ms.
After initialization the IVS shall send all-zero data blocks, until the
trigger signal from the PSAP is detected. Once triggered by the PSAP, the IVS
shall begin sending the MSD. The Test Control detects the first non-zero data
block and starts time measurement.
Note: the trigger signal shall be designed to be robust against false trigger.
It is to be defined how this is evaluated. Each candidate provides its own
trigger. The IVS will be tested separately for false detection, 30-minutes of
speech and 30-minutes of tone).
A.6 Specification of PSAP
*** PSAP Reset function:** The Control block sends a start signal to the PSAP
at every start of a test run. The PSAP then performs its internal re-
initialization.
*** PSAP Processing function:**
Input interface: 16 bit linear PCM, 8 KHz sampling in blocks of 20 ms.
The PSAP gets its input data from the uplink processing (via the test control
block).
After reception of the next 20ms block the PSAP processes this block and
delivers a next 20ms block to the downlink processing (via the test control
block).
Output interface: 16 bit linear PCM, 8 KHz sampling in blocks of 20 ms.
From initialization, the PSAP immediately shall send its trigger signal to the
IVS.
The PSAP shall attempt to decode the MSD coming from the IVS. Once the PSAP
believes the MSD to be complete, it immediately shall send it to the test
control block. The Test Control stops time measurement when it receives the
MSD.
###### ### Annex B: Required transmission times for IVS initiated eCall
signalling and HL-ACK
With the selection test campaign the following results were obtained:
**Processing block 1 (this block can be ommitted in an alternate modem
configuration):**
The time from transmitting the first 'SEND' message until its successful
detection is on average approximately 1 second, the minimum time is
approximately 0.8 seconds. In all test cases of the selection test campaign
the 'SEND' message was successfully detected. The limit of 'SEND' transmission
time was set to 2 seconds, corresponding to the duration of five 'SEND'
messages.
**Processing block 3:**
The transmission of five HL-ACK frames takes approximately 2 seconds.
Simulating the selection test campaign, the HL-ACK was always successfully
detected.
Identical test cases as above were simulated again with G.729 Annex BA,
resulting in 100 % successful detections of both SEND and HL-ACK messages.
In **processing block 2** , there are two time intervals outside of the actual
MSD transmission time (determining the Figure of Merit). The first interval,
ranging from the first transmission to the detection of START messages,
typically lasted 1.16 s in characterization test simulations. The duration of
the second interval, consisting of the transmission of LL-ACK messages after
the MSD has been received, depends on the number of LL-ACK messages. According
to [9], at least four LL-ACK messages shall be transmitted, which results in a
duration of approximately 1.6 s.
###### ### Annex C: Extended simulation results
# C.1 Dynamic jitter buffer
Table C.1a: Average MSD transmission times for dynamic jitter buffer with
delay and error profile 1\ (original modem version [27])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 6.82
C/I = 4dB 6.63 7.41 6.46
C/I = 7dB 5.96 2.42 3.55 3.27 3.74 4.92 6.49 7.17 6.47
C/I = 10dB 2.55 4.67 4.40 3.63 3.85
C/I = 13dB 3.07 2.83 2.60
C/I = 16dB 2.98
Error-free 4.67 2.81
RSSI = -100dBm 3.12 5.97
* * *
Table C.1b: Average MSD transmission times for dynamic jitter buffer with
delay and error profile 1\ (updated modem version [29])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 6.21
C/I = 4dB 3.49 4.61 4.93
C/I = 7dB 3.35 2.85 2.65 2.66 2.55 3.01 3.21 4.19 4.66
C/I = 10dB 2.51 2.39 2.23 2.49 2.53
C/I = 13dB 2.47 2.23 2.33
C/I = 16dB 2.53
error free 3.27 2.86
RSSI = -100dBm 2.47 4.65
* * *
Table C.2a: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for profile 1\
(original modem version [27])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 15.87
C/I = 4dB 15.71 31.33 15.56
C/I = 7dB 24.32 7.50 11.45 11.90 15.21 23.39 31.54 31.55 15.53
C/I = 10dB 3.58 15.60 14.57 14.06 13.65
C/I = 13dB 12.64 12.30 12.86
C/I = 16dB 12.45
error free 11.84 12.45
RSSI = -100dBm 11.46 16.93
* * *
Table C.2b: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for profile 1\
(updated modem version [29])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 8.04
C/I = 4dB 5.12 6.88 6.88
C/I = 7dB 5.56 4.68 4.24 4.70 4.68 4.70 5.12 5.56 6.02
C/I = 10dB 4.06 4.22 3.38 3.80 4.24
C/I = 13dB 4.22 4.22 3.80
C/I = 16dB 4.24
error free 3.38 3.38
RSSI = -100dBm 3.80 6.44
* * *
Table C.3a: Average MSD transmission times for dynamic jitter buffer with
delay and error profile 2\ (original modem version [27])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 14.00
C/I = 4dB 8.33 9.49 12.80
C/I = 7dB 5.49 6.55 5.62 6.71 7.07 7.12 6.00 10.61 11.40
C/I = 10dB 5.77 7.74 5.26 5.42 6.10
C/I = 13dB 5.87 6.56 8.51
C/I = 16dB 4.74
error free 5.16 8.83
RSSI = -100dBm 5.72 9.97
* * *
Table C.3b: Average MSD transmission times for dynamic jitter buffer with
delay and error profile 2\ (updated modem version [29])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 5.65
C/I = 4dB 3.37 4.50 4.83
C/I = 7dB 3.27 2.82 2.68 2.64 2.49 2.89 3.01 4.11 4.61
C/I = 10dB 2.49 2.25 2.26 2.35 2.46
C/I = 13dB 2.38 2.17 2.16
C/I = 16dB 2.40
error free 4.59 4.25
RSSI = -100dBm 2.36 4.35
* * *
Table C.4a: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for profile 2\
(original modem version [27])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 50.40
C/I = 4dB 34.40 40.42 51.08
C/I = 7dB 27.38 33.14 31.74 34.58 34.76 32.54 32.18 41.30 42.62
C/I = 10dB 32.70 32.96 31.86 31.88 32.18
C/I = 13dB 32.18 36.52 49.40
C/I = 16dB 27.40
error free 32.10 51.64
RSSI = -100dBm 31.34 45.86
* * *
Table C.4b: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for profile 2\
(updated modem version [29])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 7.78
C/I = 4dB 4.72 6.02 6.46
C/I = 7dB 5.34 4.52 4.72 4.72 3.82 4.72 5.12 6.04 6.90
C/I = 10dB 4.50 3.38 3.82 3.80 4.24
C/I = 13dB 3.82 3.82 3.40
C/I = 16dB 4.24
error free 4.70 4.24
RSSI = -100dBm 3.82 5.58
* * *
Table C.5a: Average MSD transmission times for dynamic jitter buffer with
delay and error profile 3\ (original modem version [27])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 14.72
C/I = 4dB 13.10 15.39 13.59
C/I = 7dB 10.21 6.57 7.10 8.14 8.80 12.21 10.44 13.66 12.22
C/I = 10dB 6.51 9.27 7.04 7.20 9.31
C/I = 13dB 5.99 7.27 8.70
C/I = 16dB 6.26
error free 5.72 6.74
RSSI = -100dBm 6.27 15.79
* * *
Table C.5b: Average MSD transmission times for dynamic jitter buffer with
delay and error profile 3\ (updated modem version [29])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 5.99
C/I = 4dB 3.73 4.99 5.15
C/I = 7dB 3.69 3.12 3.02 3.03 2.87 3.25 3.50 4.39 5.14
C/I = 10dB 2.83 2.72 2.46 2.76 2.79
C/I = 13dB 2.58 2.51 2.68
C/I = 16dB 2.73
error free 2.09 2.03
RSSI = -100dBm 2.73 4.75
* * *
Table C.6a: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for profile 3\
(original modem version [27])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 43.90
C/I = 4dB 36.02 53.50 51.20
C/I = 7dB 36.78 33.12 31.60 56.96 33.20 37.46 40.20 50.86 34.56
C/I = 10dB 24.98 35.20 32.46 31.50 42.90
C/I = 13dB 31.66 31.78 32.70
C/I = 16dB 31.42
error free 32.58 32.46
RSSI = -100dBm 31.26 50.46
* * *
Table C.6b: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for profile 3\
(updated modem version [29])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 8.20
C/I = 4dB 6.02 7.32 6.88
C/I = 7dB 5.70 5.12 4.70 4.72 4.68 4.70 5.12 6.44 7.34
C/I = 10dB 4.68 4.24 4.24 4.68 4.68
C/I = 13dB 4.22 4.24 4.24
C/I = 16dB 4.22
error free 2.46 2.04
RSSI = -100dBm 4.24 6.86
* * *
Table C.7a: Average MSD transmission times for dynamic jitter buffer with
delay and error profile 4\ (original modem version [27])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 18.49
C/I = 4dB 13.85 14.02 16.86
C/I = 7dB 15.36 13.24 10.74 14.03 10.64 15.61 16.86 18.55 15.97
C/I = 10dB 11.84 12.92 1 10.83 12.64
C/I = 13dB 10.03 9.17 11.60
C/I = 16dB 11.59
error free 14.28 9.14
RSSI = -100dBm 8.22 16.18
* * *
Table C.7b: Average MSD transmission times for dynamic jitter buffer with
delay and error profile 4\ (updated modem version [29])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 7.88
C/I = 4dB 4.80 6.23 6.50
C/I = 7dB 4.74 3.85 4.18 3.28 3.92 4.67 4.46 5.49 6.48
C/I = 10dB 4.21 3.58 3.39 3.60 3.37
C/I = 13dB 3.65 2.74 3.27
C/I = 16dB 2.89
error free 2.45 2.38
RSSI = -100dBm 3.57 6.20
* * *
Table C.8a: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for profile 4\
(original modem version [27])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 42.42
C/I = 4dB 51.36 70.10 34.56
C/I = 7dB 5.74 62.84 32.72 49.80 31.76 49.48 33.86 33.54 39.04
C/I = 10dB 32.12 33.98 32.80 31.98 52.46
C/I = 13dB 31.26 31.48 41.22
C/I = 16dB 32.12
error free 51.20 32.22
RSSI = -100dBm 25.56 34.54
* * *
Table C.8b: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for profile 4\
(updated modem version [29])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 15.00
C/I = 4dB 10.02 12.18 13.04
C/I = 7dB 10.60 7.80 10.20 6.56 6.94 11.04 10.28 11.80 13.40
C/I = 10dB 10.22 7.76 7.74 7.84 7.68
C/I = 13dB 9.00 6.50 7.78
C/I = 16dB 5.70
error free 2.46 2.46
RSSI = -100dBm 7.40 12.60
* * *
Table C.9a: Average MSD transmission times for dynamic jitter buffer with
delay and error profile 5\ (original modem version [27])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 15.13
C/I = 4dB 14.21 14.46 14.51
C/I = 7dB 13.31 11.68 12.14 12.17 10.76 13.10 13.01 12.69 14.25
C/I = 10dB 12.62 13.99 13.30 12.17 11.91
C/I = 13dB 11.01 9.86 11.61
C/I = 16dB 11.40
error free 11.40 11.99
RSSI = -100dBm 13.48 14.13
* * *
Table C.9b: Average MSD transmission times for dynamic jitter buffer with
delay and error profile 5\ (updated modem version [29])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 9.56
C/I = 4dB 6.92 8.40 8.75
C/I = 7dB 5.90 5.97 5.62 5.90 5.79 6.24 6.39 7.58 7.98
C/I = 10dB 5.29 5.46 5.64 5.54 5.55
C/I = 13dB 5.23 4.98 5.03
C/I = 16dB 5.33
error free 4.58 4.29
RSSI = -100dBm 5.32 8.21
* * *
Table C.10a: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for profile 5\
(original modem version [27])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 33.34
C/I = 4dB 25.00 25.04 25.00
C/I = 7dB 32.04 24.30 31.90 23.70 15.90 24.28 24.50 16.26 25.02
C/I = 10dB 24.64 32.60 32.32 24.10 21.48
C/I = 13dB 21.12 13.26 24.16
C/I = 16dB 23.60
error free 24.16 18.40
RSSI = -100dBm 31.58 24.70
* * *
Table C.10b: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for profile 5\
(updated modem version [29])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 17.66
C/I = 4dB 10.02 15.82 15.82
C/I = 7dB 10.26 8.56 8.70 8.22 8.10 8.70 8.92 10.04 10.44
C/I = 10dB 7.80 7.80 7.80 7.78 7.80
C/I = 13dB 7.58 8.24 7.64
C/I = 16dB 7.78
error free 5.16 4.72
RSSI = -100dBm 7.38 10.98
* * *
Table C.11a: Average MSD transmission times for dynamic jitter buffer with
delay and error profile 6\ (original modem version [27])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 6.57
C/I = 4dB 3.12 5.14 4.08
C/I = 7dB 2.94 2.39 1.87 1.75 1.74 2.19 2.33 3.13 4.57
C/I = 10dB 2.58 2.44 2.29 2.14 1.91
C/I = 13dB 1.63 2.56 1.60
C/I = 16dB 1.91
error free 1.77 2.03
RSSI = -100dBm 1.73 3.96
* * *
Table C.11b: Average MSD transmission times for dynamic jitter buffer with
delay and error profile 6\ (updated modem version [29])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 5.19
C/I = 4dB 2.94 3.70 4.07
C/I = 7dB 2.71 2.41 2.18 2.08 2.13 2.56 2.60 3.18 3.73
C/I = 10dB 2.00 1.90 1.82 1.92 1.93
C/I = 13dB 1.90 1.78 1.83
C/I = 16dB 1.77
error free 1.66 1.65
RSSI = -100dBm 1.87 3.69
* * *
Table C.12a: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for profile 6\
(original modem version [27])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 32.64
C/I = 4dB 4.20 19.72 4.48
C/I = 7dB 4.38 3.10 1.80 2.14 2.42 3.48 3.80 4.34 13.56
C/I = 10dB 3.48 3.48 3.44 2.14 3.48
C/I = 13dB 1.98 3.48 1.82
C/I = 16dB 3.10
error free 3.08 3.10
RSSI = -100dBm 3.04 4.88
* * *
Table C.12b: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for profile 6\
(updated modem version [29])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 7.68
C/I = 4dB 4.58 4.68 6.48
C/I = 7dB 4.50 2.90 2.48 2.46 2.96 4.14 2.90 4.50 4.68
C/I = 10dB 2.46 2.44 2.10 2.12 2.08
C/I = 13dB 3.26 2.04 2.48
C/I = 16dB 2.04
error free 1.66 1.66
RSSI = -100dBm 2.06 4.70
* * *
# C.2 Transcoding
Table C.13: Average MSD transmission times for G.726 transcoding
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 4.14
C/I = 4dB 2.53 3.17 3.37
C/I = 7dB 2.44 1.36 1.36 1.58 1.55 1.97 2.12 2.59 3.23
C/I = 10dB 1.83 2.20 1.91 1.72 1.68
C/I = 13dB 1.59 1.55 1.40
C/I = 16dB 1.53
error free 1.69 1.36
RSSI = -100dBm 1.43 3.03
* * *
Table C.14: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for G.726 transcoding
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 4.95
C/I = 4dB 2.53 2.82 3.90 3.90
C/I = 7dB 4.05 1.37 1.36 1.74 1.97 2.12 2.44 3.14 3.90
C/I = 10dB 2.70 3.08 2.08 2.06
C/I = 13dB 1.74 1.74 1.74
C/I = 16dB 1.74
error free 1.90 1.37
RSSI = -100dBm 1.74 3.52
* * *
Table C.15: Average MSD transmission times for G.729B transcoding
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 6.93
C/I = 4dB 4.39 5.61 5.93
C/I = 7dB 2.85 1.86 2.07 2.22 2.11 3.27 3.92 4.78 5.62
C/I = 10dB 2.26 2.82 2.54 2.36 2.26
C/I = 13dB 2.08 2.13 2.09
C/I = 16dB 2.01
error free 2.11 1.77
RSSI = -100dBm 1.96 5.48
* * *
Table C.16: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for G.729B
transcoding
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 8.56
C/I = 4dB 4.39 5.16 6.40 6.76
C/I = 7dB 4.44 2.10 2.10 2.46 3.27 3.92 4.24 5.68 6.40
C/I = 10dB 2.82 3.78 3.15 2.46
C/I = 13dB 2.10 2.44 2.10
C/I = 16dB 2.08
error free 2.43 2.08
RSSI = -100dBm 2.08 6.24
* * *
Table C.17: Average MSD transmission times for G.729I transcoding
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 6.93
C/I = 4dB 4.39 5.61 5.93
C/I = 7dB 2.85 1.86 2.07 2.22 2.11 3.27 3.92 4.78 5.62
C/I = 10dB 2.26 2.82 2.54 2.36 2.26
C/I = 13dB 2.08 2.13 2.09
C/I = 16dB 2.01
error free 2.11 1.77
RSSI = -100dBm 1.96 5.48
* * *
Table C.18: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for G.729I
transcoding
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 8.56
C/I = 4dB 4.39 5.16 6.40 6.76
C/I = 7dB 4.44 2.10 2.10 2.46 3.27 3.92 4.24 5.69 6.40
C/I = 10dB 2.82 3.78 3.15 2.46
C/I = 13dB 2.10 2.44 2.10
C/I = 16dB 2.08
error free 2.43 2.08
RSSI = -100dBm 2.08 6.24
* * *
Table C.19a: Average MSD transmission times for G.729BA transcoding\ (original
modem version [27])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 6.86
C/I = 4dB 4.42 5.52 5.91
C/I = 7dB 2.93 1.89 2.07 2.22 2.16 3.28 3.89 4.73 5.60
C/I = 10dB 2.24 3.01 2.53 2.40 2.32
C/I = 13dB 2.04 2.16 2.10
C/I = 16dB 1.99
error free 2.12 1.78
RSSI = -100dBm 1.93 5.52
* * *
Table C.19b: Average MSD transmission times for G.729BA transcoding\ (updated
modem version [29])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 8.03
C/I = 4dB 4.93 6.34 6.78
C/I = 7dB 3.80 3.49 2.97 2.82 2.69 3.71 4.42 5.54 6.31
C/I = 10dB 2.55 2.43 2.40 2.62 2.54
C/I = 13dB 2.36 2.13 2.38
C/I = 16dB 2.30
error free 2.27 2.03
RSSI = -100dBm 2.42 6.46
* * *
Table C.20a: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for G.729BA
transcoding\ (original modem version [27])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 8.22
C/I = 4dB 4.42 5.33 6.40 6.59
C/I = 7dB 4.58 2.10 2.10 2.46 3.28 3.89 4.24 5.68 6.40
C/I = 10dB 2.62 4.06 3.00 2.82
C/I = 13dB 2.08 2.44 2.43
C/I = 16dB 2.08
error free 2.44 2.08
RSSI = -100dBm 2.08 6.24
* * *
Table C.20b: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for G.729BA
transcoding\ (updated modem version [29])
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 9.44
C/I = 4dB 5.48 7.26 7.68
C/I = 7dB 5.78 4.90 3.70 3.30 2.86 4.18 5.04 6.80 7.68
C/I = 10dB 2.84 2.84 2.42 2.84 2.84
C/I = 13dB 2.42 2.40 2.42
C/I = 16dB 2.40
error free 2.40 2.40
RSSI = -100dBm 2.82 7.28
* * *
Table C.21: Average MSD transmission times for G.729A transcoding
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 6.99
C/I = 4dB 4.33 5.56 5.91
C/I = 7dB 2.95 1.89 2.08 2.25 2.15 3.29 3.88 4.77 5.61
C/I = 10dB 2.23 2.99 2.57 2.40 2.30
C/I = 13dB 2.03 2.14 2.09
C/I = 16dB 1.99
error free 2.12 1.80
RSSI = -100dBm 1.96 5.52
* * *
Table C.22: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for G.729A
transcoding
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 8.30
C/I = 4dB 4.33 4.98 6.58 6.76
C/I = 7dB 4.82 2.10 2.10 2.46 3.29 3.88 4.24 6.06 6.40
C/I = 10dB 2.62 4.04 3.16 2.82
C/I = 13dB 2.08 2.44 2.10
C/I = 16dB 2.08
error free 2.44 2.08
RSSI = -100dBm 2.08 6.24
* * *
# C.3 Sample slip
Table C.23: Average MSD transmission times for sample slip scenario\ "Simple
shift left to right", handover period 2 s
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 8.09
C/I = 4dB 5.42 6.41 7.08
C/I = 7dB 4.72 3.92 4.01 4.33 4.47 4.83 5.24 6.05 6.75
C/I = 10dB 4.26 4.56 4.39 4.31 4.48
C/I = 13dB 4.34 4.06 4.09
C/I = 16dB 4.27
error free 4.26 4.20
RSSI = -100dBm 4.04 6.62
* * *
Table C.24: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for sample slip
scenario\ "Simple shift left to right", handover period 2 s
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 10.66
C/I = 4dB 5.42 6.30 7.90 8.10
C/I = 7dB 6.20 4.50 4.50 4.86 4.83 5.24 5.94 6.32 8.08
C/I = 10dB 4.84 5.56 4.86 4.86
C/I = 13dB 4.50 4.86 4.50
C/I = 16dB 4.50
error free 4.50 4.50
RSSI = -100dBm 4.50 7.90
* * *
Table C.25: Average MSD transmission times for sample slip scenario\ "Simple
shift left to right", handover period 5 s
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 6.68
C/I = 4dB 4.52 5.25 5.79
C/I = 7dB 4.23 3.40 3.45 3.79 3.70 4.11 4.28 4.96 5.39
C/I = 10dB 3.84 4.01 3.84 3.77 3.84
C/I = 13dB 3.80 3.54 3.50
C/I = 16dB 3.69
error free 3.79 3.72
RSSI = -100dBm 3.52 5.39
* * *
Table C.26: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for sample slip
scenario\ "Simple shift left to right", handover period 5 s
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 8.48
C/I = 4dB 4.52 5.04 6.14 6.32
C/I = 7dB 5.62 3.78 5.78 4.16 4.11 4.28 4.84 5.40 6.30
C/I = 10dB 4.48 4.88 4.48 4.16
C/I = 13dB 4.14 4.16 4.14
C/I = 16dB 4.14
error free 4.16 3.78
RSSI = -100dBm 3.78 6.12
* * *
Table C.27: Average MSD transmission times for sample slip scenario\ "Simple
shift left to right", handover period 10 s
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 6.44
C/I = 4dB 4.52 5.24 5.78
C/I = 7dB 4.22 3.40 3.45 3.79 3.70 4.11 4.28 4.99 5.39
C/I = 10dB 3.84 4.01 3.84 3.96 3.84
C/I = 13dB 3.79 3.54 3.50
C/I = 16dB 3.69
error free 3.79 3.88
RSSI = -100dBm 3.52 5.39
* * *
Table C.28: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for sample slip
scenario\ "Simple shift left to right", handover period 10 s
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 7.66
C/I = 4dB 4.52 5.04 6.14 6.32
C/I = 7dB 5.62 3.78 3.78 4.16 4.11 4.28 4.84 5.40 6.30
C/I = 10dB 4.48 4.88 4.48 4.16
C/I = 13dB 4.14 4.16 4.14
C/I = 16dB 4.14
error free 4.16 3.78
RSSI = -100dBm 5.78 6.12
* * *
Table C.29: Average MSD transmission times for sample slip scenario\ "Double
shift left to right", handover period 2 s
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 16.06
C/I = 4dB 8.21 9.29 9.78
C/I = 7dB 7.45 5.53 5.74 5.84 6.00 6.49 7.57 8.70 9.32
C/I = 10dB 6.34 7.16 6.40 5.83 6.15
C/I = 13dB 6.20 5.59 5.70
C/I = 16dB 5.96
error free 5.86 5.81
RSSI = -100dBm 5.68 9.32
* * *
Table C.30: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for sample slip
scenario\ "Double shift left to right", handover period 2 s
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 38.12
C/I = 4dB 8.21 8.86 11.38 11.72
C/I = 7dB 9.38 5.98 7.98 6.34 6.49 7.57 8.50 9.22 11.38
C/I = 10dB 7.50 9.06 8.14 6.34
C/I = 13dB 5.98 6.32 6.32
C/I = 16dB 5.98
error free 5.98 5.98
RSSI = -100dBm 5.98 11.38
* * *
Table C.31: Average MSD transmission times for sample slip scenario\ "Double
shift left to right", handover period 5 s
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 8.70
C/I = 4dB 5.18 5.96 6.88
C/I = 7dB 5.23 3.97 4.04 4.21 4.25 4.58 4.75 5.23 6.15
C/I = 10dB 4.43 4.54 4.56 4.29 4.45
C/I = 13dB 4.51 4.12 4.09
C/I = 16dB 4.24
error free 4.26 4.26
RSSI = -100dBm 4.07 6.15
* * *
Table C.32: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for sample slip
scenario\ "Double shift left to right", handover period 5 s
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 9.86
C/I = 4dB 5.18 5.62 8.86 8.88
C/I = 7dB 9.10 4.18 4.18 4.56 4.58 4.75 5.24 5.62 8.88
C/I = 10dB 4.92 5.28 4.90 4.56
C/I = 13dB 4.54 4.56 4.54
C/I = 16dB 5.54
error free 4.56 4.18
RSSI = -100dBm 4.18 8.86
* * *
Table C.33: Average MSD transmission times for sample slip scenario\ "Double
shift left to right", handover period 10 s
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 7.05
C/I = 4dB 5.09 5.71 6.16
C/I = 7dB 5.15 3.97 4.04 4.21 4.25 4.58 4.75 5.20 6.03
C/I = 10dB 4.43 4.52 4.56 4.29 4.45
C/I = 13dB 4.31 4.12 4.09
C/I = 16dB 4.40
error free 4.26 4.25
RSSI = -100dBm 4.07 5.86
* * *
Table C.34: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for sample slip
scenario\ "Double shift left to right", handover period 10 s
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 7.90
C/I = 4dB 5.09 5.62 6.70 6.72
C/I = 7dB 7.30 4.18 4.18 4.56 4.58 4.75 5.24 5.62 6.70
C/I = 10dB 4.92 5.28 4.90 4.56
C/I = 13dB 4.54 4.56 4.54
C/I = 16dB 4.54
error free 4.56 4.18
RSSI = -100dBm 4.18 6.34
* * *
Table C.35: Average MSD transmission times for sample slip scenario\ "Simple
shift right to left", handover period 2 s
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 11.48
C/I = 4dB 6.33 8.03 8.35
C/I = 7dB 5.76 3.85 3.79 3.99 4.43 5.72 5.68 6.62 8.41
C/I = 10dB 4.53 4.92 4.66 4.30 4.11
C/I = 13dB 4.41 4.11 3.85
C/I = 16dB 4.05
error free 4.17 3.65
RSSI = -100dBm 3.68 7.70
* * *
Table C.36: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for sample slip
scenario\ "Simple shift right to left", handover period 2 s
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 20.52
C/I = 4dB 6.33 8.48 10.84 11.02
C/I = 7dB 8.94 5.98 5.98 5.98 5.72 5.68 7.96 8.88 9.22
C/I = 10dB 6.34 6.34 6.34 6.32
C/I = 13dB 6.32 5.98 5.98
C/I = 16dB 5.98
error free 6.32 5.98
RSSI = -100dBm 5.96 9.22
* * *
Table C.37: Average MSD transmission times for sample slip scenario\ "Simple
shift right to left", handover period 5 s
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 7.86
C/I = 4dB 4.42 5.48 6.22
C/I = 7dB 4.57 3.41 3.42 3.61 3.75 4.10 4.16 4.75 5.45
C/I = 10dB 3.74 4.11 3.90 3.77 3.74
C/I = 13dB 3.79 3.49 3.49
C/I = 16dB 3.52
error free 3.61 3.29
RSSI = -100dBm 3.41 5.73
* * *
Table C.38: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for sample slip
scenario\ "Simple shift right to left", handover period 5 s
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 9.66
C/I = 4dB 4.42 5.26 8.50 8.88
C/I = 7dB 6.06 4.18 4.18 4.56 4.10 4.16 4.90 5.62 8.86
C/I = 10dB 4.72 4.92 4.90 4.56
C/I = 13dB 4.54 4.56 4.18
C/I = 16dB 4.54
error free 4.54 4.18
RSSI = -100dBm 4.18 8.68
* * *
Table C.39: Average MSD transmission times for sample slip scenario\ "Simple
shift right to left", handover period 10 s
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 6.65
C/I = 4dB 4.42 5.34 5.74
C/I = 7dB 4.36 3.41 3.42 3.61 3.74 4.10 4.16 4.75 5.37
C/I = 10dB 3.74 4.09 3.89 3.77 3.74
C/I = 13dB 3.77 3.49 3.49
C/I = 16dB 3.52
error free 3.61 3.29
RSSI = -100dBm 3.41 5.52
* * *
Table C.40: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for sample slip
scenario\ "Simple shift right to left", handover period 10 s
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 7.90
C/I = 4dB 4.42 5.26 6.34 6.72
C/I = 7dB 6.06 4.18 4.18 4.56 4.10 4.16 4.90 5.62 6.34
C/I = 10dB 4.72 4.92 4.90 4.56
C/I = 13dB 4.54 4.56 4.18
C/I = 16dB 4.54
error free 4.54 4.18
RSSI = -100dBm 4.18 6.34
* * *
Table C.41: Average MSD transmission times for sample slip scenario\ "Double
shift right to left", handover period 2 s
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 10.84
C/I = 4dB 6.18 7.51 7.68
C/I = 7dB 5.05 3.87 3.67 4.10 4.08 5.17 5.55 6.61 7.69
C/I = 10dB 4.35 5.00 4.47 4.28 4.14
C/I = 13dB 4.14 3.97 3.79
C/I = 16dB 3.97
error free 4.09 3.67
RSSI = -100dBm 3.63 7.57
* * *
Table C.42: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for sample slip
scenario\ "Double shift right to left", handover period 2 s
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 21.94
C/I = 4dB 6.18 8.48 9.22 9.22
C/I = 7dB 8.70 5.98 5.98 5.98 5.17 5.55 6.34 8.88 9.22
C/I = 10dB 5.98 6.34 6.34 6.14
C/I = 13dB 5.98 5.98 5.98
C/I = 16dB 5.98
error free 5.98 5.98
RSSI = -100dBm 5.96 9.22
* * *
Table C.43: Average MSD transmission times for sample slip scenario\ "Double
shift right to left", handover period 5 s
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 7.35
C/I = 4dB 4.29 5.19 6.12
C/I = 7dB 4.24 3.34 3.34 3.55 3.45 4.04 4.04 4.61 5.34
C/I = 10dB 3.70 4.11 3.69 3.67 3.70
C/I = 13dB 3.69 3.43 3.39
C/I = 16dB 3.49
error free 3.58 3.32
RSSI = -100dBm 3.28 5.46
* * *
Table C.44: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for sample slip
scenario\ "Double shift right to left", handover period 5 s
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 9.28
C/I = 4dB 4.29 5.24 7.80 8.86
C/I = 7dB 6.06 4.18 4.18 4.56 4.04 4.04 4.90 5.62 8.48
C/I = 10dB 4.56 4.92 4.90 4.56
C/I = 13dB 4.54 4.54 4.18
C/I = 16dB 4.36
error free 4.56 4.18
RSSI = -100dBm 4.16 7.78
* * *
Table C.45: Average MSD transmission times for sample slip scenario\ "Double
shift right to left", handover period 10 s
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 6.40
C/I = 4dB 4.29 5.09 5.80
C/I = 7dB 4.22 3.34 3.34 3.55 3.45 4.04 4.04 4.61 5.19
C/I = 10dB 3.70 4.07 3.69 3.87 3.69
C/I = 13dB 3.68 3.43 3.39
C/I = 16dB 3.49
error free 3.58 3.32
RSSI = -100dBm 3.28 5.39
* * *
Table C.46: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times for sample slip
scenario\ "Double shift right to left", handover period 10 s
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 7.66
C/I = 4dB 4.29 5.24 6.32 6.72
C/I = 7dB 6.06 4.18 4.18 4.56 4.04 4.04 4.90 5.62 6.34
C/I = 10dB 4.56 4.92 4.88 4.56
C/I = 13dB 4.54 4.54 4.18
C/I = 16dB 4.36
error free 4.56 4.18
RSSI = -100dBm 4.16 6.32
* * *
# C.4 CSoHS with transcoding (G.729a / G.711) and echo cancellation
Table C.47: Average MSD transmission times with G.711 transcoding,\ CSoHS
jitter buffer (length 40 ms; delay/jitter profile 3), and echo canceller
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 4.87
C/I = 4dB 2.90 3.86 3.99
C/I = 7dB 2.35 2.13 1.89 1.81 1.75 2.21 2.41 3.47 3.89
C/I = 10dB 1.90 1.66 1.59 1.81 1.72
C/I = 13dB 1.74 1.37 1.49
C/I = 16dB 1.73
error free 1.75 1.50
RSSI = -100dBm 1.87 3.89
* * *
Table C.48: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times with G.711
transcoding,\ CSoHS jitter buffer (length 40 ms; delay/jitter profile 3), and
echo canceller
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 6,06
C/I = 4dB 2,90 3,52 4,24 4,42
C/I = 7dB 3,68 3,51 2,08 2,08 2,21 2,41 2,44 3,91 4,24
C/I = 10dB 2,08 2,06 1,74 2,08
C/I = 13dB 1,74 1,38 1,74
C/I = 16dB 1,74
error free 2,06 1,74
RSSI = -100dBm 2,08 4,24
* * *
Table C.49: Average MSD transmission times with G.711 transcoding,\ CSoHS
jitter buffer (length 40 ms; delay/jitter profile 4), and echo canceller
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 4.82
C/I = 4dB 2.80 3.83 3.99
C/I = 7dB 2.30 2.15 1.91 1.80 1.78 2.18 2.36 3.35 3.91
C/I = 10dB 1.90 1.62 1.51 1.72 1.72
C/I = 13dB 1.73 1.36 1.40
C/I = 16dB 1.72
error free 1.72 1.36
RSSI = -100dBm 1.76 3.80
* * *
Table C.50: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times with G.711
transcoding,\ CSoHS jitter buffer (length 40 ms; delay/jitter profile 4), and
echo canceller
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 5.87
C/I = 4dB 2.80 3.52 4.41 4.60
C/I = 7dB 3.68 3.51 2.08 2.08 2.18 2.36 2.44 3.90 4.24
C/I = 10dB 2.08 1.76 1.74 1.74
C/I = 13dB 1.74 1.38 1.74
C/I = 16dB 1.74
error free 1.74 1.38
RSSI = -100dBm 2.06 4.24
* * *
Table C.51: Average MSD transmission times with G.711 transcoding,\ CSoHS
jitter buffer (length 40 ms; delay/jitter profile 5), and echo canceller
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 4.79
C/I = 4dB 2.82 3.83 3.99
C/I = 7dB 2.30 2.16 1.88 1.80 1.75 2.17 2.40 3.35 3.86
C/I = 10dB 1.90 1.62 1.51 1.73 1.72
C/I = 13dB 1.73 1.36 1.40
C/I = 16dB 1.72
error free 1.72 1.36
RSSI = -100dBm 1.76 3.83
* * *
Table C.52: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times with G.711
transcoding,\ CSoHS jitter buffer (length 40 ms; delay/jitter profile 5), and
echo canceller
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 5.68
C/I = 4dB 2.82 3.52 4.41 4.60
C/I = 7dB 3.68 1.76 2.08 2.08 2.17 2.40 2.44 3.90 4.24
C/I = 10dB 2.08 1.38 1.74 1.76
C/I = 13dB 1.74 1.74
C/I = 16dB 1.74 1.37
error free 1.74
RSSI = -100dBm 2.06 4.24
* * *
Table C.53: Average MSD transmission times with G.711 transcoding,\ CSoHS
jitter buffer (length 40 ms; delay/jitter profile 6), and echo canceller
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 4.79
C/I = 4dB 2.82 3.83 3.99
C/I = 7dB 2.30 2.16 1.88 1.80 1.75 2.19 2.36 3.35 3.86
C/I = 10dB 1.90 1.62 1.51 1.73 1.72
C/I = 13dB 1.75 1.36 1.40
C/I = 16dB 1.73
error free 1.72 1.36
RSSI = -100dBm 1.76 3.82
* * *
Table C.54: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times with G.711
transcoding,\ CSoHS jitter buffer (length 40 ms; delay/jitter profile 6), and
echo canceller
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 5.68
C/I = 4dB 2.82 3.52 4.41 4.60
C/I = 7dB 3.86 3.51 2.08 2.08 2.19 2.36 2.44 3.90 4.24
C/I = 10dB 2.08 1.76 1.74 1.76
C/I = 13dB 2.06 1.38 1.74
C/I = 16dB 1.74
error free 1.74 1.37
RSSI = -100dBm 2.06 4.24
* * *
Table C.55: Average MSD transmission times with G.729a transcoding,\ CSoHS
jitter buffer (length 40 ms; delay/jitter profile 3), and echo canceller
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 9.98
C/I = 4dB 5.13 7.01 7.31
C/I = 7dB 3.96 3.75 3.33 2.88 2.51 3.99 4.35 6.13 6.83
C/I = 10dB 3.04 2.43 2.50 2.53 2.41
C/I = 13dB 2.65 2.10 2.42
C/I = 16dB 2.49
error free 2.42 2.12
RSSI = -100dBm 2.68 6.63
* * *
Table C.56: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times with G.729a
transcoding,\ CSoHS jitter buffer (length 40 ms; delay/jitter profile 3), and
echo canceller
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 18.26
C/I = 4dB 5.13 6.07 8.23 8.56
C/I = 7dB 5.84 5.13 3.91 3.52 3.99 4.35 4.98 6.76 8.22
C/I = 10dB 3.71 2.82 2.82 3.16
C/I = 13dB 3.16 2.44 2.46
C/I = 16dB 2.82
error free 2.44 2.44
RSSI = -100dBm 3.52 7.66
* * *
Table C.57: Average MSD transmission times with G.729a transcoding,\ CSoHS
jitter buffer (length 40 ms; delay/jitter profile 4), and echo canceller
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 9.32
C/I = 4dB 5.09 6.69 7.09
C/I = 7dB 3.97 3.55 3.22 2.76 2.49 3.87 4.27 6.05 6.64
C/I = 10dB 2.94 2.36 2.46 2.50 2.37
C/I = 13dB 2.53 2.06 2.37
C/I = 16dB 2.44
error free 2.41 2.04
RSSI = -100dBm 2.62 6.71
* * *
Table C.58: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times with G.729a
transcoding,\ CSoHS jitter buffer (length 40 ms; delay/jitter profile 4), and
echo canceller
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 17.56
C/I = 4dB 5.09 6.06 8.30 8.24
C/I = 7dB 5.67 5.12 3.89 3.16 3.87 4.27 4.60 6.76 7.83
C/I = 10dB 3.90 2.82 2.82 2.84
C/I = 13dB 2.82 2.10 2.46
C/I = 16dB 2.46
error free 2.44 2.10
RSSI = -100dBm 3.16 7.83
* * *
Table C.59: Average MSD transmission times with G.729a transcoding,\ CSoHS
jitter buffer (length 40 ms; delay/jitter profile 5), and echo canceller
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 9.29
C/I = 4dB 5.02 6.65 7.01
C/I = 7dB 3.89 3.55 3.23 2.71 2.47 3.92 4.27 6.01 6.62
C/I = 10dB 2.87 2.36 2.43 2.50 2.36
C/I = 13dB 2.50 2.06 2.39
C/I = 16dB 2.45
error free 2.43 2.03
RSSI = -100dBm 2.64 6.59
* * *
Table C.60: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times with G.729a
transcoding,\ CSoHS jitter buffer (length 40 ms; delay/jitter profile 5), and
echo canceller
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 17.22
C/I = 4dB 5.02 6.06 8.12 8.22
C/I = 7dB 5.51 4.76 3.90 3.17 3.92 4.27 4.60 6.59 7.66
C/I = 10dB 3.52 2.82 2.81 2.84
C/I = 13dB 2.82 2.10 2.46
C/I = 16dB 2.46
error free 2.44 2.10
RSSI = -100dBm 3.16 7.48
* * *
Table C.61: Average MSD transmission times with G.729a transcoding,\ CSoHS
jitter buffer (length 40 ms; delay/jitter profile 6), and echo canceller
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 9.10
C/I = 4dB 5.03 6.66 7.04
C/I = 7dB 3.92 3.57 3.22 2.74 2.49 3.87 4.27 5.99 6.58
C/I = 10dB 2.86 2.36 2.43 2.50 2.36
C/I = 13dB 2.51 2.06 2.37
C/I = 16dB 2.45
error free 2.41 2.04
RSSI = -100dBm 2.62 6.50
* * *
Table C.62: 95^th^ percentiles of MSD transmission times with G.729a
transcoding,\ CSoHS jitter buffer (length 40 ms; delay/jitter profile 6), and
echo canceller
* * *
**Condition** **GSM\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\** AMR\ **AMR\
FR** 12.2**10.2** 7.95**7.4** 6.7**5.9** 5.15**4.75**
C/I = 1dB 17.20
C/I = 4dB 5.03 6.06 8.12 8.30
C/I = 7dB 5.50 4.60 3.89 3.16 3.87 4.27 4.60 6.76 7.48
C/I = 10dB 3.71 2.82 2.81 2.84
C/I = 13dB 2.82 2.10 2.46
C/I = 16dB 2.46
error free 2.44 2.10
RSSI = -100dBm 3.16 7.14
* * *
#