# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**32.121: Advanced Alarm Management (AAM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Requirements;**
**32.122: Advanced Alarm Management (AAM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS);**
32.123: **Advanced Alarm Management (AAM)** Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set.
The Itf-N interface is built up by a number of IRPs and a related Name
Convention, which realize the functional capabilities over this interface. The
basic structure of the IRPs is defined in 3GPP TS 32.150 [1].
A single network fault may generate a large number of alarms over space and
time. In a large and complex network, simultaneous network faults may occur,
causing the network operator to be flooded with high volume of alarms.\ The
high volume of alarms, typically the one received by an IRPManager via the
getAlarmList or alarm notifications of Alarm IRP specification, greatly
inhibits the operator ability to quickly identify and locate the responsible
network faults. AAM IRP is intended to provide methods to improve this
situation.
# 1 Scope
The purpose of Advanced Alarm Management (AAM) IRP is to define an interface
through which an IRPManager can categorize alarm notifications.
The present document is the Information Service of AAM. It defines, for the
purpose of categorizing alarm notifications, the information observable and
controlled by management system\'s client and it also specifies the semantics
of the interactions used to carry this information.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions that, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document in the same Release as the present document.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.121: \"Telecommunication management; Advanced Alarm Management
Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (SS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM; Information service (IS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**IRP:** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [1].
**IRPAgent:** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [1].
**IRPManager:** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [1].
**Alike Alarm** : Two alarms are considered alike, if the corresponding alarm
notifications are issued by the same object instance with the same alarmType,
same perceivedSeverity, same probableCause and same specificProblem (if
present).
**Lower Edge of Time Window** : The point in time which determines the begin
of a time span.
**Upper Edge of Time Window** : The point in time which determines the end of
a time span.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AAM Advanced Alarm Management
AAMRule Advanced Alarm Management Rule
CM Configuration Management
EM Element Manager
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
Itf-N Interface N
MIB Management Information Base
NE Network Element
# 4 System overview
## 4.1 System context
The general definition of the System Context for the present IRP is found in
3GPP TS 32.150 [5], clause 4.7.
In addition, the set of related IRP(s) relevant to the present IRP is shown in
figures 4.1-1 and 4.1-2.
Figure 4.1-1: System Context A
Figure 4.1-2: System Context B
# 5 Information Object Classes
## 5.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.622 [6], information object class, Top
Top 3GPP TS 32.312 [7], information object class, managedGenericIRP
managedGenericIRP 3GPP TS 32.622 [6], information object class, IRPAgent
IRPAgent
* * *
## 5.2 Class diagram
### 5.2.1 Attributes and relationships
This clause depicts the set of IOCs that encapsulate information within the
AAM IRP. The intent is to identify the information required for the AAM IRP
implementation of its operations and notification emission.\ This clause
provides the overview of all Information Object Classes in UML.\ Subsequent
clauses provide more detailed specification of various aspects of these
Information Object Classes.
{width="3.375in" height="3.2291666666666665in"}
Figure 5.2.1-1: Class Diagram
### 5.2.2 Inheritance
This clause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between
Information Object Classes.
{width="3.3125in" height="2.4375in"}
Figure 5.2.2-1: Inheritance Diagram
## 5.3 Information Object Class definitions
### 5.3.1 advancedAlarmManagementRule
#### 5.3.1.1 Definition
#### 5.3.1.1.1 General Definition
This information object represents an AAM Rule object instance.
An AdvancedAlarmManagementRule is fully identified by its distinguished name.
It inherits from IOC top.
An AAM Rule is a way for the IRPManager to define which alarms / alarm
clearings deliver significant or insignificant information (significant seen
with the eyes of the IRPManager) and to tell the IRPAgent not to send the
insignificant alarms / alarm clearings.
AAMRules will not screen out all insignificant alarms/alarm clearings, but
contribute to enable the network operator to reduce the number of reported
alarms to a reasonable and manageable level.
The choice of rule/s may depend on the type of alarm, the environment, the
time of day and many more.
To avoid screening of alarms which might be important for the network
operator, the user of AAM rules should apply AAMrules with careful
consideration and appropriate setting of parameters.
An AAM Rule instance is fully identified by its DNdistinguished name. A Rule
instance carries, among other things, the identification of the Rule type
called AdvancedAlarmManagementRuleType. Of these there exist the following:
  * ThresholdRule
  * TransientRule
  * ToggleRule
  * VendorSpecificRule
See Annex A for the description of the above Rules.
#### 5.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
advancedAlarmManagementRuleIdentifier M M - advancedAlarmManagementRuleType M
M - advancedAlarmManagementRuleParameterList M M - filter M M -
* * *
### 5.3.2 advancedAlarmManagementIRP
#### 5.3.2.1 Definition
This information object represents an AAM IRP. It inherits from IOC
managedGenericIRP.
## 5.4 Information relationships definition
### 5.4.1 relation- AdvancedAlarmManagementIRP-AdvancedAlarm ManagementRule
(M)
#### 5.4.1.1 Definition
This relationship defines the relationship between an
AdvancedAlarmManagementIRP and an AdvancedAlarmManagementRule instance.
#### 5.4.1.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theAdvancedAlarmManagementRule This role represents an AAM
Rule. It can be played by instances of IOC advancedAlarmingRule
theAdvancedAlarmManagementIRP This role represents the AAM IRP which an
IRPManager uses. It is played by instances of IOC advancedAlarm Management IRP
* * *
#### 5.4.1.3 Constraints
None
## 5.5 Information attributes definition
This clause defines the semantics of the Attributes used in Information Object
Classes.
### 5.5.1 Definitions and legal values
* * *
Attribute Name Definition Legal Values advancedAlarmManagementRuleIdentifier
This attribute identifies uniquely an AAM Rule base object instance String
advancedAlarmManagementRuleType This attribute indicates the type of AAM Rule
this instance represents. String advancedAlarmManagementRuleParameterList This
attribute identifies parameters and values of this AAM Rule N/A
* * *
# 6 Interface Definition
## 6.1 Class diagram representing interfaces
{width="4.4375in" height="3.4895833333333335in"}
Figure 6.1-1: Class Diagram for AdvancedAlarmManagementIRPOperation_1
Interface
## 6.2 AAMIRPOperation_1 Interface (M)
### 6.2.1 Scope
This interface defines methods for the IRPManagerIRPManager to request for
alarm notifications of significant information (significant from the
IRPManager's perspective).
The definition of insignificance is determined by the IRPManager. The choice
of AAM Rule/s may depend on the type of alarm, the environment, the time of
day and many more.
An implementation can claim compliance to this IRP if it supports at least one
of the AAMRules, i.e. one of the operations defined in clause 6.2.2 up to and
including clause 6.2.5, and the mandatory operations defined in this
interface.
### 6.2.2 Operation activateAAMRule (M)
#### 6.2.2.1 Definition
This operation allows an IRPManager to activate an AAM rule (see
§A.3.1.1.2.1).
#### 6.2.2.2 Input parameters
#### 6.2.2.2.1 Generic Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | type | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | aAMRuleType | M | N/A | This | | | | | corresponds to | | | | | attribute | | | | | a | | | | | dvancedAlarmMan | | | | | agementRuleType | | | | | of | | | | | advancedAlar | | | | | mManagementRule | | | | | (see 5.3.1.2) | | | | | | | | | | Values: | | | | | ThresholdRule, | | | | | TransientRule, | | | | | ToggleRule, | | | | | Ven | | | | | dorSpecificRule | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | aAMRu | M | N/A | This | | leParameterList | | | corresponds to | | | | | attribute | | | | | advancedAl | | | | | armManagementRu | | | | | leParameterList | | | | | of | | | | | advancedAlar | | | | | mManagementRule | | | | | (see 5.3.1.2) | | | | | | | | | | Content depends | | | | | on value of | | | | | a | | | | | dvancedAlarmMan | | | | | agementRuleType | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | filter | M | N/A | This | | | | | corresponds to | | | | | attribute | | | | | filter of | | | | | advancedAlar | | | | | mManagementRule | | | | | (see 5.3.1.2) | | | | | | | | | | Carries a | | | | | filter | | | | | constraint. It | | | | | can e.g. | | | | | comprise | | | | | objectClass, | | | | | objectInstance, | | | | | alarmType, | | | | | probableCause, | | | | | per | | | | | ceivedSeverity, | | | | | s | | | | | pecificProblem. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.2.2.2.2 Content of Input parameter aAMRuleParameterList depending on
value of aAMRuleType
#### 6.2.2.2.2.1 aAMRuleType = ThresholdRule
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment alarmOccurenceThreshold M
N/A value >0 slidingTimeWindow M N/A Unit: minutes
* * *
#### 6.2.2.2.1.2 aAMRuleType = TransientRule
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment timeSpan M N/A Unit: minutes
* * *
#### 6.2.2.2.2.3 aAMRuleType = ToggleRule
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment alarmOccurenceThreshold M
N/A value>0 slidingTimeWindowTogglingStarted M N/A Unit: minutes
slidingTimeWindowTogglingSettled M N/A Unit: minutes
* * *
#### 6.2.2.2.2.4 aAMRuleType = vendorSpecificRule
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment vendor specific parameters
N/A N/A N/A
* * *
#### 6.2.2.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment aAMRuleIdentifier M N/A
See §5.5.1 status M ENUM (Success, Failure, aAMRuleAlreadyActive)
* * *
#### 6.2.2.4 Pre-condition
AAMIsSupported
* * *
Assertion Name Definition aAMIsSupported The AAM functionality is supported by
the IRPAgent.
* * *
#### 6.2.2.5 Post-condition
AAMRuleIsApplied
* * *
Assertion Name Definition aAMRuleIsApplied The AAM rule is applied. For the
consequences see the definitions in Annex A.
* * *
#### 6.2.2.6 Exceptions
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Properties | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | **Condition:** the pre-condition is false or | | | the post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
### 6.2.3 Operation getAAMRules (M)
#### 6.2.3.1 Definition
This operation allows an IRPManager to request from the IRPAgent a list of
activated AAMRules.
#### 6.2.3.2 Input parameters
None
#### 6.2.3.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | aAMRuleList | M | LIST of | | | | | aAMRuleInstance | | | | | { | | | | | | | | | | aAMRuleInstance | | | | | | | | | | LIST OF { | | | | | | | | | | aAM | | | | | RuleIdentifier, | | | | | | | | | | aAMRuleType, | | | | | | | | | | aAMRul | | | | | eParameterList, | | | | | | | | | | filter | | | | | | | | | | } | | | | | | | | | | aAMRuleType | | | | | | | | | | ENUM ( | | | | | | | | | | thresholdRule, | | | | | | | | | | toggleRule, | | | | | | | | | | transientRule, | | | | | | | | | | ven | | | | | dorSpecificRule | | | | | | | | | | ) | | | | | | | | | | aAMRul | | | | | eParameterList: | | | | | | | | | | Content type | | | | | depends on the | | | | | value of | | | | | aAMRuleType | | | | | (see §6.2.2) | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Status | M | ENUM (Success, | If no rule is | | | | Failure) | defined, an | | | | | empty | | | | | advancedA | | | | | larmManagement\ | | | | | RuleList a | | | | | shall be | | | | | delivered and | | | | | s | | | | | tatus==Success. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.2.3.4 Pre-condition
None
#### 6.2.3.5 Post-condition
allActiveAdvanceAlarmManagementRulesAreDelivered
* * *
Assertion Name Definition allActiveAlarmManagementRulesAreDelivered All active
AAM rules are listed in the output.
* * *
#### 6.2.3.6 Exceptions
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Properties | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | **Condition:** the pre-condition is false or | | | the post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
### 6.2.4 Operation deactivateAAMRule (M)
#### 6.2.4.1 Definition
This operation allows an IRPManager to request from the IRPAgent to deactivate
one or all activated AAMRules.
Deactivated rules are not visible for the IRPManager.
#### 6.2.4.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment
advancedAlarmManagementRuleIdentifier M See 32.302 [3] If this parameter
contains no information, then all active AAM Rules shall be deactivated.
* * *
#### 6.2.4.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM (Success, | If input | | | | SpecifiedR | parameter | | | | uleNotExisting, | advance | | | | Failure) | dAlarmManagemen | | | | | tRuleIdentifier | | | | | is present and | | | | | no such rule | | | | | exists, then | | | | | status== | | | | | SpecifiedR | | | | | uleNotExisting. | | | | | | | | | | If input | | | | | parameter | | | | | advance | | | | | dAlarmManagemen | | | | | tRuleIdentifier | | | | | is not present | | | | | and no rule is | | | | | defined, then | | | | | s | | | | | tatus==Success. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.2.4.4 Pre-condition
None
#### 6.2.4.5 Post-condition
allOrSpecifiedActiveAdvanceAlarmManagementRulesAreDeactivated
* * *
Assertion Name Definition
allOrSpecifiedActiveAdvanceAlarmManagementRulesAreDeactivated Depending on the
input all or only the specified active AAM Rule are/is deactivated
* * *
#### 6.2.4.6 Exceptions
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Properties | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | **Condition:** the pre-condition is false or | | | the post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
###### ## Annex A (normative): Advanced Alarm Management Rules
# A.1 General
It is not recommended to have several AAMRules applicable at one time for one
event. However, if YyyFunction supports and allows it, then it is vendor
specific which AAMRule is applied or not.
An AAMRule (called Rule hereafter) contains multiple elements.
The first element (subSection titled: Criterion to determine alike alarm) is a
criterion used to determine if an alarm is classified as 'alike' or \"not
alike\". If the alarm is not-alike, then the alarm is not subject to further
scrutiny (processing) by the Rule, i.e. it would be processed as if there is
no Rule in effect. The IRPManager specifies such criterion in an input
parameter named filter in various relevant AAM operations.
The second element (subSection titled: Treatment of alike alarm) is the
algorithm to determine if
a) An alike alarm should be reported as one alarm (i.e. it is a significant
alarm) or
b) The alike alarm should be suppressed (i.e. it is an insignificant alarm).
When a significant alarm is identified, the algorithm also determines:
a) The time when the notifyNew/Changed/ClearedAlarm of this significant alarm
should be sent to IRPManager and
b) The value of alarmRaisedTime, alarmChangedTime and alarmClearedTime
parameters in the relevant notifyNew/Changed/ClearedAlarm of this significant
alarm.
The third element (subSection titled: Relation to Log and AlarmList) specifies
which alarms shall enter into Log of LogIRP and AlarmList of AlarmIRP.
Each of the following subsections defines a Rule using the three-element
description outlined above.
For each Rule, illustration samples, using symbols shown below, are given
(titled: Samples). The thick horizontal line indicates a time-line. The dotted
double‑arrow line indicates a time parameter, if applicable. The '?' box
indicates the alarm under investigation. The left-edge of a box corresponds to
the alarmRaisedTime while the right-edge corresponds to the alarmClearedTime.
So, the horizontal span of a box indicates the alarm active time span.
Figure A.1-1: Sample diagram notations
Sometimes, a shaded box is drawn below the time line as below. Such shaded box
indicates the identification of a significant alarm (to be reported alarm).\
The left-edge of the box indicates the time when the corresponding alarm
notification is sent out. This emission time is not necessarily identical to
the alarmRaised/ChangedTime within the alarm notification.\ The right-edge of
a box indicates the time when the corresponding alarm clearing notification is
sent out. This emission time is not necessarily identical to the
alarmClearedTime within the alarm notification.
Figure A.1-2: Sample diagram notations
For each Rule, use cases are given (subSection titled: Example for Use cases).
For some Rules exception handling is defined (subSection titled: Exception
Handling).
# A.2 AAM Rules
## A.2.1 Threshold Rule
### A.2.1.1 Parameters
This Rule has three parameters, namely, the alarmOccurenceThreshold (called N
here), the slidingTimeWindow (called T here) and filter.
### A.2.1.2 Criterion to determine alike alarm
The filter parameter carries values for objectInstance, alarmType,
perceivedSeverity, probableCause and specificProblem. If the alarm under
investigation (e.g. the box with a '?' in the sample below) carries the same
values, then it is considered 'alike' otherwise, \"not-alike\".
### A.2.1.3 Treatment of alike alarm
Starting value for Lower Edge of Time Window is the activation time of the
threshold rule.
Test an alike alarm.
When a new alarm matches the filter, then Lower and Upper Edge of Time Window
and count are newly determined:\ Upper Edge of Time Window becomes the time of
the new alarm.\ Lower Edge of Time Window becomes either the time of the
current Lower Edge of Time Window or the time of the new alarm minus the
default size T of the time window, whichever of these two times is later.
The count is the number of alarms between Lower and Upper Edge of Time Window
(including the new alarm).\ If the count reaches the threshold N, then the
alarm is considered as significant and the Lower Edge of Time Window becomes
the time of the alarm.
For a not reported alarm no notifyClearedAlarm shall be sent.
NotifyClearedAlarms for alarms which were reported to the IRPManager before
the activation of the threshold rule shall not be suppressed.
Table A.2.1.3-1 shows the emission times of the various related to a
significant alarm.
Table A.2.1.3-1: Significant alarm emission time for Threshold Rule
* * *
Reported alarm types Emission (to IRPManager) times of a reported alarm
notifyNewAlarm Immediately after the alarmRaisedTime. notifyChangedAlarm
Immediately after the alarmChangedTime. notifyClearedAlarm Immediately after
the alarmClearedTime
* * *
Table A.2.1.3-2 shows the time related parameters in significant alarm.
Table A.2.1.3-2: Significant alarm time parameters for Threshold Rule
### A.2.1.4 Relation to Log and AlarmList
The alike alarms enter the Log. The significant alarms enter the AlarmList.
### A.2.1.5 Samples
FigureA.2.1.5-1: Threshold Rule illustrations -- insignificant alarm
FigureA.2.1.5-2: Threshold Rule illustrations -- insignificant alarm
FigureA.2.1.5-3: Threshold Rule illustrations -- significant alarm
### A.2.1.6 Example for Use cases
The thresholdRule can be used to screen out alarms which are only important if
they appear repeatedly, e.g. if an alarm which is self-healing comes back
again and again,
## A.2.2 Transient Rule
### A.2.2.1 Parameters
This Rule has two parameters, namely, the minutesAtLeastActive (called T here)
and filter.
### A.2.2.2 Criterion to determine alike alarm
The filter parameter carries values for objectInstance, alarmType,
perceivedSeverity, probableCause and specificProblem. If the alarm under
investigation (e.g. the box with a '?' in the sample below) carries the
identified parameters and having the same values, then it is considered
'alike' otherwise, \"not-alike\".
### A.2.2.3 Treatment of alike alarm
Take an alike alarm. If it's period is smaller than T, then it is an
insignificant alarm; otherwise, it is a significant alarm. For a not reported
alarm no notifyClearedAlarm shall be sent.
NotifyClearedAlarms for alarms which were reported to the IRPManager before
the activation of the transientRule shall not be suppressed.
Table A.2.2.3-1 shows the emission times of the various related to significant
alarm.
Table A.2.2.3-1: Significant alarm emission time re: Transient Rule
* * *
Reported alarm type Emission (to IRPManager) times of an Reported alarm
notifyNewAlarm Immediately after the alarmRaisedTime plus T.
notifyChangedAlarm Immediately after the alarmChangedTime plus T.
notifyClearedAlarm Immediately after the alarmClearedTime
* * *
Table A.2.2.3-2 shows the time related parameters in significant alarm.
Table A.2.2.3-2: Significant alarm time parameters re: Transient Rule
* * *
Parameters of the Reported alarm Parameter values alarmRaisedTime Same value
as that carried in the alike alarm. alarmChangedTime Same value as that
carried in the alike alarm. notifyClearedTime Same value as that carried in
the alike alarm alarmId Same value as that carried in the alike alarm.
* * *
### A.2.2.4 Relation to Log and AlarmList
The alike alarms enter the Log. The significant alarms enter the AlarmList.
### A.2.2.5 Samples
Here are two samples. One is a not-to-be reported alarm while the other is a
significant alarm.
Figure A.2.2.5-1: TransientRule Illustrations -- insignificant alarm
Figure A.2.2.5-2: TransientRule Illustrations -- significant alarm
### A.2.2.6 Example for Use cases
The transientRule can be used to screen out alarms which usually are of
temporarily nature.
## A.2.3 Toggle Rule
### A.2.3.1 Parameters
This Rule has 4 parameters, namely, the filter, the alarmOccurenceThreshold
(called N here), the slidingTimeWindowTogglingStarted (called T1 here) and
slidingTimeWIndowTogglingSettled (called T2 here).
### A.2.3.2 Criterion to determine alike alarm
The filter parameter carries values for objectInstance, alarmType,
perceivedSeverity, probableCause and specificProblem. If the alarm under
investigation (e.g. the box with a '?' in the sample below) carries the
identified parameters and having the same values, then it is considered
'alike' otherwise, \"not-alike\".
### A.2.3.3 Treatment of alike alarm
[1. Starting values]{.underline}:
Starting value for Lower Edges of Time Windows for Toggling Started/Settled is
the activation time of the toggle rule.\ Starting value for the count is
zero.\ At the beginning all alarms are \"non-toggling\"
[2. To do when alike alarm was identified]{.underline}
When a notifyNew/Changed/ClearedAlarm event matches the filter, then Lower and
Upper Edge of the Time Window TogglingStarted/Settled and count are newly
determined:
[2.1. Determine Time Window TogglingStarted]{.underline}\ Upper Edge of Time
Window TogglingStarted becomes the time of the event.\ Lower Edge of Time
Window TogglingStartedbecomes the time of the event minus the size T1 of the
time window.
[2.2. Determination of \"toggling\" (via count)]{.underline}\ The count is the
number of alike alarms between Lower and Upper Edge of Time Window
TogglingStarted (including the new alarm).\ If the count is above or equal to
the threshold N and the event was a notifyNewAlarm and the alarm was \"non-
toggling\", then the notifyNewAlarm is sent and the alarm is considered as
\"toggling\", with the consequence that further alike notifyNew/Changed/Alarm
events are regarded as not significant, until the alarm is considered as
\"non-toggling\" again.\ \ [2.3.Determine Time Window
TogglingSettled]{.underline}\ If the alarm is \"non-toggling\", then there is
no need to determine Upper and Lower Edge of Time Window TogglingSettled.\ If
the alarm is \"toggling\", then:\ Upper Edge of Time Window TogglingSettled
becomes the time of the new event plus the size T2 of the Time Window
TogglingSettled .\ Lower Edge of Time Window TogglingSettled becomes the time
of the new alarm .
[3. Return to non-toggling]{.underline}\ If the time reaches the Upper Edge of
Time Window TogglingSettled, then the alarm is considered as \"non-toggling\",
i.e. alike alarms are regarded as significant.\ If the last event was a
notifyChanged/ClearedAlarm, then the change to \"non-toggling\" triggers the
emission of the related notification.
Table A.2.3.3-1 shows the emission times of the various related to significant
alarm.
Table A.2.3.3-1: Significant alarm emission time re: Toggle Rule
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Reported alarm types | Emission (to IRPManager) times of an | | | Reported alarm | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | notifyNewAlarm | Immediately after the alarmRaisedTime | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | notifyChangedAlarm | Immediately after the alarmChangedTime | | | [Remark: If the alarm is toggling state, | | | then the notifyChangeAlarm is dropped (not | | | significant).] | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | notifyClearedAlarm | Immediately after the alarmClearedTime+T2 of | | | the last alike alarm , if alarmClearedTime | | | is earlier than alarmRaisedTime+T2 | | | | | | or | | | | | | immediately after the alarmClearedTime of | | | the last alike alarm, if this time is later | | | than or equal to alarmRaisedTime+T2 | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
Table A.2.3.3-2 shows the time related parameters in significant alarm.
Table A.2.3.3-2: Significant alarm time parameters re: Toggle Rule
* * *
Parameters of the Reported alarm Parameter values alarmRaisedTime Same value
as that carried in the alike alarm. alarmChangedTime Same value as that
carried in the alike alarm. notifyClearedTime Same value as that carried in
the last alike alarm. alarmId Same value as that carried by the first member
of a sequence.
* * *
### A.2.3.4 Relation to Log and AlarmList
The alike alarms enter the Log. The significant alarms enter the AlarmList.
### A.2.3.5 Samples
The samples below use N=3.
Figure A.2.3.5-1: Toggle Rule illustration 1
Figure A.2.3.5-2: Toggle Rule illustration 2
Figure A.2.3.5-3: Toggle Rule illustration 3
Figure A.2.3.5-4: Toggle Rule illustration 4
### A.2.3.6 Example for Use cases
The toggleRule can be used to take some burden from alarm management for cases
where an alarm comes and goes back and forth, e.g. because of some entity is
in a swinging state.
### A.2.3.7 Exception Handling
The Toggle Rule can potentially group multiple alike alarms together to form
one significant alarm. If the process executing the Rule misses the alarm
clearing time of one member of a group, then this can have the following
consequences:
If a clearing of one of the alike alarms during the toggling state is missed
(green box in Figure A.2.3.7-1), then the significant alarm would also not be
cleared (pink box continuing the dark grey in the same figure). This can be
avoided if the filter is set in a way that only alarms of one instance will
pass it and if always the latest notifyClearedAlarms triggers the start of T2.
Figure A.2.3.7-1: Exception handling example
## A.2.4 Definition of vendor specific rule
It is possible to implement vendor specific AAMRules. No specific definitions
are supplied here.
# A.3 Relation of Rule and Notification filter
This clause illustrates the relation between the AAM capabilities and the
NotificationIRP and AlarmIRP.
The following diagram illustrates the case when AAM capabilities are not
deployed. The \"1, 2.. 6\" indicates 6 alarms. They will be logged and they
would appear in the AlarmList. The NotificationIRP supported a filter F1.\ The
IRPManager, in this case, receives \"1, 3\" where '2, 4, 5, 6' were discarded
because of Notification filter F1 is in effect.
Figure A.3-1: Deployment without AAM capabilities
The following diagram illustrates the case when AAM capabilities are deployed.
The \"1, 2.. 6\" indicates 6 alarms. They will be logged. Because of AAMRule
R1 is in effect, the \"\"1,2...6\" result in two significant alarms, A and B.
The A and B will appear in AlarmList. They will also be broadcasted to
IRPManagers subject to NotificationIRP filter in effect. In the case below,
the IRPManager would receive only A because Notification IRP filter F2 is in
effect.
FigureA.3-2: Deployment with AAM capabilities
#