# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
**TS 32.140: \"Subscription Management (SuM) requirements\".**
**TS 32.141: \"Subscription Management (SuM) architecture\".**
**TS 32.171: \"Subscription Management (SuM) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".**
TS 32.172: \"Subscription Management (SuM) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
**TS 32.175:** \"**Subscription Management (SuM)** Network Resource Model
(NRM) **Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup Language (XML)
definition** \"**.**
The 3G environment requires more complex service delivery mechanisms and is no
longer simply an internal matter for a single operator but a capability that
is achieved by linking together features across multiple service providers and
operators. Subscription Management (SuM) is a feature that permits Service
Providers, Value Added Service Providers, and Mobile Operators to provision
services for a specific subscriber. The feature is necessary to allow service
providers and operators to provision, control, monitor and bill the
configuration of services that they offer to their subscribers.
For further details see 3GPP TS 32.140 [5] on SuM requirements that gives an
overview of SuM.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the architecture for Subscription Management
(SuM).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.140: \"Telecommunication management; Subscription Management
(SuM) requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.008: \"Organization of subscriber data\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.240: \"Service requirements for the 3GPP Generic User Profile
(GUP); Stage 1\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.240: \"3GPP Generic User Profile (GUP) requirements;
Architecture (Stage 2)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**subscriber:** See 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**service:** See 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Integration Reference Point (IRP):** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [3].
**user:** See 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**subscription:** See 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Subscription Management (SuM):** See 3GPP TR 32.140 [5].
**Subscription Profile:** See 3GPP TR 32.140 [5].
**Subscription Profile Component:** See 3GPP TR 32.140 [5].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
2G Second Generation Mobile
3G Third Generation Mobile
API Application Programming Interface
ASP Application Service Provider
AuC Authentication Center
B2B Business to Business
CS Circuit Switch
EIR Equipment Identity Register
GTT Global Text Telephony
GUP Generic User Profile
HE Home Environment
HLR Home Location Register
HSS Home Subscriber Server
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IRP Integration Reference Point (3GPP TS 32.102 [4])
ISP Internet Service Provider
NPDB Number Portability Data Base
NRM Network Resource Model
OAM Operations, Administration and Maintenance
OSA Open Services Access
OSF Operations System Functions
OSS Operations Support System
PS Packet Switch
SLA Service Level Agreement
SP Service Provider
SuM Subscription Management
TMN Telecommunication Management Network
TR-IRP Trading Partner IRP
UICC Universal Integrated Circuit Card
USIM Universal Subscriber Identity Module
VASP Value Added Service Provider
VHE Virtual Home Environment
VNO Virtual Network Operator
# 4 Subscription Management (SuM) architecture
3G Telecommunication Management focuses on the most important and strategic
contexts in the physical architecture for the management of UMTS. The
framework to help define a telecom management physical architecture for a
planned UMTS and to adopt standards and provide products that are easy to
integrate is defined in 3GPP TS 32.102 [4].
SuM manages Subscription Profile Components stored in network resources for
the purpose of providing services to specific subscribers. This is done with
an architecture that is consistent with the one specified in 3GPP TS 32.102
[4].
Subscription Profiles represent services and are associated to subscribers
that employ these services (3GPP TS 32.140 [5]). To the extent the HSS
controls certain services, Subscription Profile Components can be associated
with the HSS. Other services, and as a result Subscription Profiles
Components, are outside the jurisdiction of the HSS.
## 4.1 Functional entities
Functional entities belonging to SuM are described in Figure 1. The figure
also contains the actors related to Subscriptions.
{width="5.646527777777778in" height="3.627083333333333in"}
Figure 1: Functional entities in SUM
Actors described in Figure 1 are:
  * **Subscriber** (definition See TS 21.905)
  * **User** (definition See TS 21.905)
  * **Service** **Provider** (definition See TS 21.905)
  * **PLMN** **Operator** (definition See TS 21.905)
The entities described in Figure 1 are:
  * **Subscription** **Profile** (definition See TS 32.140)
  * **Subscription** **Profile** **Component** (definition See TS 32.140)
  * **Service** (definition See TS 21.905)
  * **System** (definition See TS 32.102)
  * **Service** **Preferences** : Contains the service preferences chosen for a user. Each user configures his preferences for a particular subscribed service, but only within the limits defined by the Subscription.
**Clarifications to the figure:**
  * A PLMN Operator/Service Provider has one or several Services to offer for Subscribers.
  * A Subscriber has one or several Subscription Profiles, where each describes an offered Service.
  * A User has one or several Service Preferences, where each describes the user's chosen preferences for the service.
  * A Subscription Profile may consist of one or several Subscription Profile Components.
  * A Subscription Profile may define one or several Service Preferences.
  * A Subscription Profile Component resides in one or several systems
## 4.2 Interfaces
### 4.2.1 Application of Itf-N for SuM
Figure 2: Overview of PLMN Telecom Management Domains and Itf-N (3GPP TS
32.102 [4])
The Itf-N for SuM is realized by means of an Integration Reference Point (IRP)
as defined in 3GPP TS 32.102 [4].
Operations System Functions (OSF) functionality can be realized in NEs or in
the NE Management systems. SuM, for this release, is concerned with the OSF
functionality contained in the Core Network Basic Entities Domain and
specifically that of the Common CN Domain. Subscription Profile Components are
located in the NEs OSF\'s within the Common CN Domain or their NEs OSF\'s in
the NE management systems, and are in either case accessed consistent with the
IRP concept. SuM OSF\'s for Network Management and Service Management are
located in network- and service management systems.
### 4.2.2 Relationship of SuM to GUP
SuM IRP Solution Sets may re-use GUP stage 3 where possible. For this purpose,
an interpretation of the relationship of Itf-N realisation (for SuM) to the
GUP reference architecture is explained in Annex A of this specification.
## 4.3 Overview of IRP
Figures 3 and 4 identify system contexts of the IRP in terms of its
implementation, called IRPAgent (3GPP TS 32.102 [4]), and the user of the
IRPAgent, called IRPManager (3GPP TS 32.102 [4]).
The IRPAgent implements and supports this (SuM) IRP. The IRPAgent can reside
in an Element Manager (EM) or a Network Element (NE) (3GPP TS 32.102 [4]). In
the former case, the interface (represented by a thick dotted line) between
the EM and the NEs is not the subject of this SuM-IRP.
An IRPManager using this SuM-IRP shall choose one of the two System Contexts
defined here, for each NE. For instance, if an EM is responsible for managing
a number of NEs, the NM shall access this IRP through the EM and not directly
to those NEs.
{width="4.927777777777778in" height="1.8020833333333333in"}
Figure 3: System Context
Figure 4: System Context B
### 4.3.1 IRP security
The IRP interface is made secure by controlling access to the network and
management systems. Operations processes must insure that only authorized
personnel have the access authority to retrieve and alter SuM data. Standard
protocols used over the interface between the IRPManager and the IRPAgent
provide some degree of security. The exact nature of the security is described
in the Solution Set for that protocol. In addition to the requirement that the
IRPManager and the IRPAgent be secure, most physical links between them are
secured as well.
## 4.4 Methodology
The methodology used to conclude the standard work for SuM shall follow the
IRP methodology described in 3GPP TS 32.102 [4]. This subclause describes how
to apply that methodology.
### 4.4.1 SuM Stage 1
SuM Stage 1 is documented in 3GPP TS 32.140 [5].
### 4.4.2 SuM Stage 2
SuM Stage 2 is documented as follows:
a) The present document (3GPP TS 32.141) is finalized by identifying the
relevant IRPs.
b) 3GPP TS 32.171 describes the Requirements for the NRM IRP -- containing the
Information Object Classes (IOCs), attributes, relations etc. for SuM.\ 3GPP
TS 32.171 shall, where applicable, follow the structure from 3GPP TS 32.621
(Configuration Management (CM); Generic network resources Integration
Reference Point (IRP): requirements).
c) 3GPP TS 32.172 describes the Information Service for the Network Resource
Model (NRM) IRP -- containing the Information Object Classes (IOCs),
attributes, relations etc. for SuM.\ 3GPP TS 32.172 shall, where applicable,
follow the structure from 3GPP TS 32.622 (Configuration Management (CM);
Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network Resource
Model (NRM)).
### 4.4.3 SuM Stage 3
SuM Stage 3 is documented in the following documents:
  * TS 32.173 SuM NRM IRP: XXX Solution Set.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Relationship of SuM to GUP reference
architecture
# A.1 Relationship of Itf-N to GUP Rp reference point
Figure A.1 illustrates the GUP architecture as defined in 3GPP TS 23.240 [8].
Figure A.1: GUP Reference architecture
The Rp reference point of the GUP reference architecture is developed in such
a way as to be compatible with the IRP concept. In the GUP reference
architecture, the RAF and GUP Data Repository functionality can be viewed as
providing the functionality of the NE OSF\'s and may be located in the NEs or
the NE Management Systems. The Applications provide the Network
Management/Service Management OSFs functionality and are located in the
network- and service management systems.
#