# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
> TS 32.150: Integration Reference Point (IRP) Concept and definitions
>
> **TS 32.151: Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS)
> template**
>
> **TS 32.152: Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS)
> Unified Modelling Language (UML) repertoire**
>
> **TS 32.153 Integration Reference Point (IRP) technology specific
> templates**
>
> **TS 32.154 Backward and Forward Compatibility (BFC); Concept and
> definitions**
>
> **TS 32.155 Requirements template**
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the template to be used for the production of
all Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS) specifications
within the 3GPP 32-series.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.152: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Information Service (IS) Unified Modelling Language (UML)
repertoire\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication Management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [3] and the following
apply:
**IRPAgent:** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [3].
**IRPManager:** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [3].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [3] and the following apply:
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
OMG Object Management Group
UML Unified Modelling Language (OMG)
# 4 Information Service (IS) template
The present document contains the templates to be used for the production of
all Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS) specifications
within the 3GPP 32-series.
The clauses in this template that shall be used in the IS specifications are
numbered starting with \"X\", which in general should correspond to clause 4
that is the beginning of the main part of the TS. However, if there is a need
in a specific IS to introduce additional clauses in the body, X may correspond
to a number higher than 4.
For a NRM IRP IS, only clause X shall be used.
For an Interface IRP IS, both clauses X and Y shall be used.
The introductory clauses (from clause 1 to clause 3) for the IS should be
taken from the standard 3GPP TS template (i.e. not this IRP IS templates).
_The IS template uses qualifiers M, O, CM, CO and C. The semantics of these
qualifiers are defined in TS 32.150 [3]._
Usage of fonts shall be according to the following table.
* * *
Item Font Class names Courier New Attribute names Courier New Operation names
Courier New Parameter names Courier New Assertion names Courier New
Notification names Courier New Exception names Courier New State names Arial
Enumerated values Arial NOTE: These font requirements do not apply to UML
diagrams.
* * *
# X Information Object Classes
_This "X" clause shall be used for NRM IRP ISs. This "X" clause shall also be
used for Interface IRP ISs._
_\"X\" represents a clause number in the actual Information Service TS._
## X.1 Imported information entities and local labels
_This clause identifies a list of information entities (e.g. information
object class, information relationship, information attribute) that have been
defined in other specifications and that are imported in the present document.
This includes information entities from other specifications imported for
inheritance purpose. Each element of this list is a pair (label reference,
local label). The label reference contains the name of the specification where
it is defined, the type of the information entity and its name. The local
label of imported information entities can then be used throughout the
specification instead of the label reference._
This information is provided in a table. An example of such a table is given
here below:
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.622 [5], information object class, Top
Top
* * *
## X.2 Class diagram
### X.2.1 Attributes and relationships
_This first set of diagrams represents all information object classes defined
in this IS with all their relationships and all their attributes, including
relationships with imported IOCs (if any). These diagrams shall contain
information object class cardinalities (for associations as well as
containment relationships) and may also contain association names and role
names. These shall be UML compliant class diagrams (see also 3GPP TS 32.152 [_
4 _])._
_Characteristics (attributes, relationships) of imported information object
classes need not to be repeated in the diagrams. Information object classes
should be defined using the stereotype \ >._
### X.2.2 Inheritance
_This second set of diagrams represents the inheritance hierarchy of all
information object classes defined in this IS. These diagrams do not need to
contain the complete inheritance hierarchy but shall at least contain the
parent information object classes of all information object classes defined in
the present document. By default, an information object class inherits from
the information object class \"top\". These shall be UML compliant class
diagrams._
_Characteristics (attributes, relationships) of imported information object
classes need not to be repeated in the diagrams. Information object classes
should be defined using the stereotype \ >._
_NOTE: some inheritance relationships presented in clause X.2.2 can be
repeated in clause X.2.1 to enhance readability._
## X.3 Information object class definitions
_Each information object class is defined using the following structure._
_Inherited items (attributes etc.) shall not be shown, as they are defined in
the parent IOC(s) and thus valid for all subclasses._
### X.3.a InformationObjectClassName
_InformationObjectClassName is the name of the information object class._
_\"a\" represents a number, starting at 1 and increasing by 1 with each new
definition of an IOC._
#### X.3.a.1 Definition
_The \  subclause is written in natural language. The
\ subclause refers to the information object class itself. The
characteristics related to the relationships that the object class can have
with other object classes can\'t be found in the definition. The reader has to
refer to relationships definition to find such kind of information.
Information related to inheritance shall be precised here._
_For NRM IRP ISs, information on traceability back to one or more requirements
supported by this IOC should also be defined_ here, in the following form:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.xyz [xy] REQ-SM-CON-23
_Optional clarification_ 3GPP TS 32.xyz [xy] REQ-SM-FUN-11 _Optional
clarification_
* * *
#### X.3.a.2 Attributes
The \ subclause presents the list of attributes, which are the
manageable properties of the object class. Each element is a tuple
(attributeName, supportQualifier, readQualifier, writeQualifier):
_\- The supportQualifier indicates whether the attribute is Mandatory (M),
Optional (O), Conditional-Mandatory (CM), Conditional-Optional (CO), SS-
Conditional (C) or Not supported (---)._
_\- The readQualifier indicates whether the attribute shall be readable by the
IRPManager. Allowed values are: Mandatory (M), Optional (O) and Not supported
(---)._
_\- The writeQualifier indicates whether the attribute shall be writeable by
the IRPManager. Allowed values are: Mandatory (M), Optional (O) and Not
supported (---)._
_The semantics of the above used qualifiers are defined in TS 32.150 [3]._
_There is a dependency relationship between the supportQualifier,
readQualifier, and writeQualifier. The supportQualifier indicates the
requirements for the support of the attribute. For any given attribute,
regardless of the value of the supportQualifier, at least one of the
readQualifier or writeQualifier must be \"M\". The implication of the \"O\"
supportQualifier is that the attribute is optional, however the read and write
qualifiers indicate how the optional attribute shall be supported, should the
optional attribute be supported._
_Private or IRPAgent Internal attributes are per definition not readable by
the IRPManager. Their readQualifier is hence always \"---\"._
_Private or IRPAgent Internal attributes are per definition not writable by
the IRPManager. Their writeQualifier is hence always \"---\"._
_The readQualifier and writeQualifier of a supported attribute, that is
public, may not be both \"---\"._
_The use of \"---\" in supportQualifier is reserved for documenting support of
attributes defined by an «Archetype» IOC. Attributes with a supportQualifier
of \"---\" are not implemented by the IOC that is realizing a subset of the
attributes defined by the «Archetype». The readQualifier and writeQualifier
are of no relevance in this case. However, a not supported attribute is
neither readable nor writable. For this reason the readQualifier and
writeQualifier shall be \"---\" for unsupported attributes._
_For any IOC that uses one or more attributes from an «Archetype», a separate
table shall be used to indicate the supported attributes. This table is absent
if no «Archetype» attributes are supported. For example, if a particular IOC
has defined attributes (i.e. attributes not defined by an «Archetype») and
encapsulates attributes from two «Archetype»s, then the totality of the
attributes of said IOC will be contained in three separate tables._
_This information is provided in a table. An example of such a table is given
below:_
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
ntfSubscriptionId M M O
* * *
Another example, where the support qualifier is \"O\" is given here below:
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
ntfSubscriptionId O M O
* * *
_In this example, the ntfSubscriptionId is an optional attribute. If the
implementation chose to support ntfSubscriptionId, then the said
implementation is required to support read and may support write._
_NOTE: This subclause does not need to be present when there is no attribute
to define._
#### X.3.a.b Attribute constraints
_The \  subclause presents constraints between
attributes that are always held to be true. Those properties are always held
to be true during the lifetime of the attributes and in particular don\'t need
to be repeated in pre or post conditions of operations or notifications._
_\"b\" represents a number, consecutively following the previous existing
subclause under X.3.a._
_NOTE: This subclause does not need to be present when there are no attribute
constraints to define._
#### X.3.a.b Relationships
_The \  subclause presents the list of relationships in which
this class in involved. Each element is a relationshipName._
_\"b\" represents a number, consecutively following the previous existing
subclause under X.3.a.NOTE: This subclause is optional and may be avoided
since all relationships are represented in the class diagram in clause X.2.1._
#### X.3.a.b State diagram
_The \  subclause contains state diagrams. A state diagram of
an information object class defines permitted states of this information
object class and the transitions between those states. A state is expressed in
terms of individual attribute values or a combination of attribute values or
involvement in relationships of the information object class being defined.
This shall be a UML compliant state diagram._
_\"b\" represents a number, consecutively following the previous existing
subclause under X.3.a.NOTE: This subclause does not need to be present when
there is no state diagram to define._
#### X.3.a.b Notifications
_\"b\" represents a number, consecutively following the previous existing
subclause under X.3.a._
_The \  subclause, for this IOC, presents:_
a) _optionally, a reference to the common notifications defined in subclause
X.6 as valid for this IOC, and_
b) _optionally, a list of notifications that shall be excluded from the list
of common notifications (defined in subclause X.6) for this IOC (note:
inherited notifications from the parent IOC(s) can not be excluded), and_
c) _optionally, a list of notifications applicable to this IOC, and which may
or may not be defined in the common notifications in subclause X.6._
_The notifications identified in this subclause are notifications that can be
emitted across the Itf-N, where the \"object class\" and \"object instance\"
parameters of the notification header (see note 2) of these notifications
identifies an instance of the IOC defined by the encapsulating subclause (i.e.
clause X.3.a)._
_The notifications identified in this subclause, may originate from
implementation object(s) whose identifier is mapped in the implementation, to
the object instance identifier used over the Itf-N. Hence the presence of
notifications in this clause (i.e. clause X.3.a.6) does not imply nor identify
those notifications as being originated from an instance of the IOC defined by
the encapsulating subclause (i.e. clause X.3.a)._
_The information related to option c) above_ is provided in a table. An
example of such a table is given below:
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyCMSynchronizationRecommended O Example
notification.
* * *
_NOTE 1: This subclause and table dos not need to be present when there are no
notifications to define._
_NOTE 2: The notification header is defined in the notification IRP
Information service TS 32.302 [7]._
## X.4 Information relationship definitions
_Each information relationship is defined using the following structure._
_Inherited relationships shall not be shown, as they are defined by the parent
IOC(s) and thus valid for all subclasses._
### X.4.a InformationRelationshipName (supportQualifier)
_InformationRelationshipName is the name of the information relationship
followed by a qualifier indicating whether the relationship is Mandatory (M),
Optional (O), Conditional-Mandatory (CM), Conditional-Optional (CO), or
SS‑Conditional (C)._
_\"a\" represents a number, starting at 1 and increasing by 1 with each new
definition of an information relationship._
#### X.4.a.1 Definition
_The \  subclause is written in natural language._
#### X.4.a.2 Roles
_The \  subclause identifies the roles played in the relationship by
object classes. Each element is a pair (roleName, roleDefinition)._
This information is provided in a table. An example of such a table is given
here below:
* * *
Name Definition isSubscribedBy This role represents the one who has
subscribed.
* * *
#### X.4.a.3 Constraints
_The \  subclause contains the list of properties specifying the
semantic invariants that must be preserved on the relationship. Each element
is a pair (propertyName, propertyDefinition). Those properties are always held
to be true during the lifetime of the relationship and don\'t need to be
repeated in pre or post conditions of operations or notifications._
This information is provided in a table. An example of such a table is given
here below:
* * *
Name Definition inv_notificationCategoriesAllDistinct The notification
categories contained in the ntfNotificationCategorySet attribute of
NtfSubscription playing the role theNtfSubscription are all distinct from each
other.
* * *
## X.5 Information attribute definitions
_Each information attribute is defined using the following structure._
_Inherited attributes shall not be shown, as they are defined in the parent
IOC(s) and thus valid for all subclasses._
### X.5.1 Definition and legal values
_This subclause contains for each attribute being defined its name, its
definition written in natural language and a list of legal values supported by
the attribute._
_In the case where the legal values can be enumerated, each element is a pair
(legalValueName, legalValueDefinition), unless a legalValueDefinition applies
to several values in which case the definition is provided only once. When the
legal values cannot be enumerated, the list of legal values is defined by a
single definition._
This information is provided in a table. An example of such a table is given
here below:
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ntfSubscriptionId | It identifies | N/A | | | uniquely a | | | | subscription | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ntfSusbcriptionState | It indicates the | \"suspended\"_:_ the | | | activation state of | subscription is | | | a subscription | suspended. | | | | | | | | \"notSuspended\"_:_ | | | | the subscription is | | | | active. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### X.5.2 Constraints
_The \  subclause indicates whether there are any constraints
affecting attributes. Each constraint is defined by a pair (propertyName,
propertyDefinition). PropertyDefinitions are expressed in natural language._
An example is given here below:
* * *
Name Definition inv_TimerConstraints The ntfTimeTickTimer is lower than or
equal to ntfTimeTick.
* * *
## X.6 Common Notifications
_This \  subclause presents a list of notifications that
can be referred to by any IOC defined by this IRP specification. These
notifications are only applicable to IOCs referring to this subclause in
subclause "X.3.a.6"._ This information is provided in a table. An example of
such a table is given below:
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange O Example common notification
notifyObjectCreation O Example notifyObjectDeletion O Example
* * *
_NOTE: This clause does not need to be present when there are no common
notifications._
## X.7 System State Model
_Some configurations of information are special or complex enough to justify
the usage of a state diagram to clarify them. A state diagram in this clause
defines permitted states of the system and the transitions between those
states. A state is expressed in terms of a combination of attribute values
constraints or involvement in relationships of one or more information object
classes._
# Y Interface Definition
_This "Y" clause shall be used for Interface IRP ISs._
_\"Y\" represents a number, immediately following \"X\"._
## Y.1 Class diagram representing interfaces
_Each interface is defined in the diagram. This shall be a UML compliant class
diagram (see also 3GPP TS 32.152 [_ 4 _])._
_Interfaces are defined using a stereotype \ >. Each interface
contains a set of either operations or notifications which are mandatory or
either a single operation or a single notification which is optional. The
support of an interface by an information object class is represented by a
relationship between the 2 entities with a cardinality (1..1) if all the
operations or notifications contained in the interface are mandatory, and
(0..1) if the operation or notification contained in the interface is
optional. On the class diagram, each operation and notification in an
interface shall be qualified as \"public\" by the addition of a symbol \"+\"
before each operation and notification._
## Y.2 Generic rules
_The following rules are relevant for all ISs. They shall simply be copied as
part of the specification._
_Rule 1: each operation with at least one input parameter supports a pre-
condition valid_input_parameter which indicates that all input parameters
shall be valid with regards to their information type. Additionally, each such
operation supports an exception operation_failed_invalid_input_parameter which
is raised when pre-condition valid_input_parameter is false. The exception has
the same entry and exit state._
_Rule 2: Each operation with at least one optional input parameter supports a
set of pre-conditions supported_optional_input_parameter_yyy where \"yyy\" is
the name of the optional input parameter and the\ pre-condition indicates that
the operation supports the named optional input parameter. Additionally, each
such operation supports an exception
operation_failed_unsupported_optional_input_parameter_yyy which is raised when
(a) the pre-condition supported_optional_input_parameter_yyy is false and (b)
the named optional input parameter is carrying information. The exception has
the same entry and exit state._
_Rule 3: each operation shall support a generic exception
operation_failed_internal_problem which is raised when an internal problem
occurs and that the operation cannot be completed. The exception has the same
entry and exit state._
## Y.b InterfaceName Interface (supportQualifier)
_InterfaceName is the name of the interface followed by a qualifier indicating
whether the interface is Mandatory (M), Optional (O), Conditional-Mandatory
(CM), Conditional-Optional (CO), or SS-Conditional (C)._
_\"b\" represents a number, starting at 3 and increasing by 1 with each new
definition of an interface._
_Each interface is defined by its name and by a sequence of operations or
notifications._
_Interfaces related to operations shall be listed before the interfaces
related to notifications._
_If the interface is related to operation(s), the following Y.b.a_ \"Operation
OperationName (supportQualifier)\" _shall be applied._
_If the interface is related to notification(s), the next Y.b.a \"_
Notification NotificationName (supportQualifier)\" _below shall be applied._
### Y.b.a Operation OperationName (supportQualifier)
_OperationName is the name of the operation followed by a qualifier indicating
whether the operation is Mandatory (M), Optional (O), Conditional-Mandatory
(CM), Conditional-Optional (CO), or SS-Conditional (C)._
_\"a\" represents a number, starting at 1 and increasing by 1 with each new
definition of an operation._
#### Y.b.a.1 Definition
_The \  subclause is written in natural language._
_Information on traceability back to one or more requirements supported by
this operation should also be defined_ here, in the following form:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.xyz [xy] REQ-SM-CON-23
_Optional clarification_ 3GPP TS 32.xyz [xy] REQ-SM-FUN-11 _Optional
clarification_
* * *
#### Y.b.a.2 Input parameters
_List of input parameters of the operation. Each element is a tuple
(inputParameterName, supportQualifier, InformationType,
inputParameterComment). Legal values for the supportQualifier are: Mandatory
(M), Optional (O), Conditional-Mandatory (CM), Conditional-Optional (CO), or
SS-Conditional (C)._
This information is provided in a table. An example of such a table is given
here below:
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment managerReference M
ntfSubscriber.ntfManagerReference It specifies the reference of IRPManager to
which notifications shall be sent.
* * *
#### Y.b.a.3 Output parameters
_List of output parameters of the operation. Each element is a tuple
(outputParameterName, supportQualifier, MatchingInformation,
outputParameterComment). Legal values for the supportQualifier are: Mandatory
(M), Optional (O), Conditional-Mandatory (CM), Conditional-Optional (CO), or
SS-Conditional (C)._
This information is provided in a table. An example of such a table is given
here below:
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment versionNumberSet M
notificationIRP.irpversion It indicates one or more SS version numbers
supported by the NotificationIRP.
* * *
_This table shall also include a special parameter'status' to indicate the
completion status of the operation (success, partial success, failure reason
etc.)._
#### Y.b.a.4 Pre-condition
_A pre-condition is a collection of assertions joined by AND, OR, and NOT
logical operators. The pre-condition must be held to be true before the
operation is invoked. An example is given here below:_
_notificationCategoriesNotAllSubscribed OR
notificationCategoriesParameterAbsentAndNotAllSubscribed_
Each assertion is defined by a pair (propertyName, propertyDefinition). All
assertions constituting the pre-condition are provided in a table. An example
of such a table is given here below:
* * *
Assertion Name Definition notificationCategoriesNotAllSubscribed At least one
notificationCategory identified in the notificationCategories input parameter
is supported by IRPAgent and is not a member of the ntfNotificationCategorySet
attribute of an NtfSubscription which is involved in a subscription
relationship with the NtfSubscriber identified by the managerReference input
parameter. notificationCategoriesParameterAbsentAndNotAllSubscribed The
notificationCategories input parameter is absent and at least one
notificationCategory supported by IRPAgent is not a member of the
ntfNotificationCategorySet attribute of an ntfSsubscription which is involved
in a subscription relationship with the NtfSubscriber identified by the
managerReference input parameter.
* * *
#### Y.b.a.5 Post-condition
_A post-condition is a collection of assertions joined by AND, OR, and NOT
logical operators. The post-condition must be held to be true after the
completion of the operation. When nothing is said in a post-condition
regarding an information entity, the assumption is that this information
entity has not changed compared to what is stated in the\ pre-condition. An
example is given here below:_
_subscriptionDeleted OR allSubscriptionDeleted_
Each assertion is defined by a pair (propertyName, propertyDefinition). All
assertions constituting the post-condition are provided in a table. An example
of such a table is given here below:
* * *
Assertion Name Definition subscriptionDeleted The ntfSubscription identified
by subscriptionId input parameter is no more involved in a subscription
relationship with the ntfSubscriber identified by the managerReference input
parameter and has been deleted. If this ntfSubscriber has no more
ntfSubscription, it is deleted as well. allSubscriptionDeleted In the case
subscriptionId input parameter was absent, the ntfSubscriber identified by the
managerReference input parameter is no more involved in any subscription
relationship and is deleted, the corresponding ntfSubscription have been
deleted as well.
* * *
#### Y.b.a.6 Exceptions
_List of exceptions that can be raised by the operation. Each element is a
tuple (exceptionName, condition, ReturnedInformation, exitState)._
##### Y.b.a.6.c exceptionName
_ExceptionName is the name of an exception._
_\"c\" represents a number, starting at 1 and increasing by 1 with each new
definition of an exception._
This information is provided in a table. An example of such a table is given
here below:
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | ope | **Condition:** | | _failed_existing_subscription | (notifi | | | cationCategoriesNotAllSubscribed | | | OR | | | notificationCategoriesPar | | | ameterAbsentAndNotAllSubscribed) | | | not verified. | | | | | | **Returned information:** output | | | parameter status is set to | | | Oper | | | ationFailedExistingSubscription. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
_Each notification is defined using the following structure._
#### Y.b.a.7 Constraints
_The \  subclause presents constraints for the operation or its
parameters._
NOTE: This subclause does not need to be present when there are no constraints
to define.
### Y.b.a Notification NotificationName (supportQualifier)
_NotificationName is the name of the notification followed by a qualifier
indicating whether the notification is Mandatory (M), Optional (O),
Conditional-Mandatory (CM), Conditional-Optional (CO) or SS-Conditional (C)._
_\"a\" represents a number, starting at 1 and increasing by 1 with each new
definition of a notification._
#### Y.b.a.1 Definition
_The \  subclause is written in natural language._
_Information on traceability back to one or more requirements supported by
this notification should also be defined_ here, in the following form:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.xyz [xy] REQ-SM-CON-23
_Optional clarification_ 3GPP TS 32.xyz [xy] REQ-SM-FUN-11 _Optional
clarification_
* * *
#### Y.b.a.2 Input parameters
_List of input parameters of the notification. Each element is a tuple
(inputParameterName, supportQualifier and filteringQualifier,
matchingInformation, inputParameterComment)._
_The column \"Qualifiers\" contains the two qualifiers, supportQualifier and
filteringQualifier, separated by a comma. The supportQualifier indicates
whether the attribute is Mandatory (M), Optional (O), Conditional-Mandatory
(CM), Conditional-Optional (CO), or SS-Conditional (C). The filteringQualifier
indicates whether the parameter of the notification can be filtered or not.
Values are Yes (Y) or No (N). The matchingInformation refers to information in
the state \"toState\"._
This information is provided in a table. An example of such a table is given
here below:
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifiers Matching Information Comment managerReference M,Y
ntfSubscriber.ntfManagerReference It specifies the reference of IRPManager to
which notifications shall be sent.
* * *
#### Y.b.a.3 Triggering event
_The triggering event for the notification to be sent is the transition from
the information state defined by the \"from state\" subclause to the
information state defined by the \"to state\" subclause._
##### Y.b.a.3.1 From state
_This subclause is a collection of assertions joined by AND, OR, and NOT
logical operators. An example is given here below:_
_alarmMatched AND alarmInformationNotCleared_
_Each assertion is defined by a pair (propertyName, propertyDefinition). All
assertions constituting the state \"from state\" are provided in a table. An
example of such a table is given here below:_
* * *
Assertion Name Definition alarmMatched The matching-criteria-attributes of the
newly generated network alarm has values that are identical (matches) with
ones in one AlarmInformation in AlarmList.. alarmInformationNotCleared The
perceivedSeverity of the newly generated network alarm is not Cleared.
* * *
##### Y.b.a.3.2 To state
_This subclause is a collection of assertions joined by AND, OR and NOT
logical operators. When nothing is said in a to-state regarding an information
entity, the assumption is that this information entity has not changed
compared to what is stated in the from state. An example is given here below:_
_resetAcknowledgementInformation AND perceivedSeverityUpdated_
_Each assertion is defined by a pair (propertyName, propertyDefinition). All
assertions constituting the state \"to state\" are provided in a table. An
example of such a table is given here below:_
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | resetAcknowledgementInformation | The matched AlarmInformation | | | identified in inv_alarmMatched | | | in pre-condition has been updated | | | according to the following | | | rule _:_ | | | | | | ackTime, ackUserId and | | | ackSystemId are updated to | | | contain no information; ackState | | | is updated to \"unacknowledged\". | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | perceivedSeverityUpdated | The perceivedSeverity attribute | | | of matched AlarmInformation | | | identified in inv_alarmMatched | | | in pre-condition has been | | | updated. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
#### Y.b.a.4 Constraints
_The \  subclause presents constraints for the notification or
its parameters._
NOTE: This subclause does not need to be present when there are no constraints
to define.
## Y.c Scenario
_This subclause contains one or more sequence diagrams, each describing a
possible scenario. These shall be UML compliant sequence diagrams. This is an
optional subclause._
#