# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
> TS 32.150: Integration Reference Point (IRP) Concept and definitions
>
> TS 32.151: Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS)
> template
>
> **TS 32.152: Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS)
> Unified Modelling Language (UML) repertoire**
>
> **TS 32.153 Integration Reference Point (IRP) technology specific
> templates**
>
> **TS 32.154 Backward and Forward Compatibility (BFC); Concept and
> definitions**
>
> **TS 32.155 Requirements template**
# 1 Scope
3GPP SA5 has chosen UML to capture systems behaviour in the IRP IS context.
UML provides a rich set of concepts, notations and model elements to model
distributive systems. Usage of all UML notations and model elements is not
necessary for the purpose of IRP IS specifications. This TS documents the
necessary and sufficient set of UML notations and model elements, including
the ones built by the UML extension mechanism \>, for use by
3GPP IRP IS authors. Collectively, this set of notations and model elements is
called the 3GPP IRP IS modelling repertoire.
The selection of the UML notations and model elements in this repertoire is
based on the needs of the existing 3GPP IRP IS specifications. Future IRP IS
releases may require the use of additional UML notations or model elements.
IRP IS specifications shall employ the UML notation and model elements of this
repertoire and may also employ other UML notation and model elements
considered necessary. However, before any other UML notation and model
elements may be employed in an approved 3GPP IRP specification, the other
notation and model elements should be agreed for inclusion first in this
repertoire.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.151: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Information Service (IS) template\".
[5] OMG: \"Unified Modelling Language Specification, Version 1.5\".
http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/formal/uml.htm [ ]{.underline}
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [3] and the following
apply:
**IRPAgent:** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [3].
**IRPManager:** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [3].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [3] and the following apply:
GERAN GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
NRM Network Resource Model
OMG Object Management Group
UML Unified Modelling Language (OMG)
# 4 Requirements
IRPAgent can be characterized by several different but related models. The
models can be exterior or interior to the IRPAgent. Exterior models are use
case models and interior models are object models.
Current version of this TS focuses on the interior model aspects of IRPAgents.
The notation elements captured in this repertoire shall be used to model all
aspects of NRM IRP IS (such as GERAN NRM IRP: IS) and (interface) IRP (such as
Alarm IRP: IS).
All quotes are from [5].
Capitalized words are defined by various 3GPP IRP IS specifications or the
reference [5].
# 5 Model Elements and Notations
## 5.1 Basic model elements
UML defined a number of basic model elements. This subclause lists the
selected subset for use in the repertoire. The semantics of the selected ones
are defined in [5].
  * attribute (subclause 3.25 of [5]).
This sample shows two attributes, listed as strings in the attribute
compartment of the class AClass.
{width="1.9819444444444445in" height="1.0618055555555554in"}
  * aggregation (subclause 3.43.2.5 of [5]).
This sample shows a hollow diamond attached to the end of a path to indicate
aggregation. The diamond is attached to the class that is the aggregate.
{width="5.106944444444444in" height="0.6777777777777778in"}
  * operation (subclause 3.26 of [5]).
This sample shows two operations, shown as strings in the operation
compartment of class AClass, that the instance of AClass may be requested to
perform. The operation has a name, e.g. operationA and a list of arguments
(not shown).
{width="1.9819444444444445in" height="1.0618055555555554in"}
  * association, association name (subclause 3.41 of [5]).
This sample shows a binary association between exactly two model elements. The
association can include the possibility relating a model element to itself.
This sample shows a bi-directional association in that one model element is
aware of the other. Association can be unidirectional (shown with an open
arrow at one association end) in that only the source model element is aware
of the target model element and not vice-versa.
{width="6.35in" height="0.6694444444444444in"}
  * realization relationship (subclause 2.5.2.1 of [5]).
This sample shows the realization relationship between a
AlarmIRPNotification_1 (the supplier) and a model element, IRPManager, that
implements it.
{width="5.577083333333333in" height="0.8138888888888889in"}
  * generalization relationship (subclause 3.50 of [5]).
This sample shows a generalization relationship between a more general element
(the **IRPAgent**) and a more specific element (the IRPAgent_vendor_A) that is
fully consistent with the first element and that adds additional information.
{width="5.1402777777777775in" height="0.6666666666666666in"}
  * dependency relationship (subclause 3.51 of [5]).
This sample shows that BClass instances have a semantic relationship with
AClass instances. It indicates a situation in which a change to the target
element will require a change to the source element in the dependency.
{width="5.770138888888889in" height="0.6805555555555556in"}
  * note (subclause 3.11 of [5]).
This sample shows a note, as a rectangle with a \"bent corner\" in the upper
right corner. The note contains arbitrary text. It appears on a particular
diagram and may be attached to zero or more modelling elements by dashed
lines.
{width="4.403472222222222in" height="0.6666666666666666in"}
  * Multiplicity, a.k.a. cardinality (subclause 3.44 of [5]).
This sample shows a multiplicity attached to the end of an association path.
The meaning of this multiplicity is that one Network instance is associated
with zero, one or more SubNetwork instances.
In Release 7 and earlier versions, the cardinality zero can indicate that the
IOC has the so-called "transient state" characteristics. For example, it
indicates that the instance is not yet created but it is in the process of
being created. In Release 8 and onwards, the cardinality zero will not be used
to indicate this characteristics since such characteristics is considered
inherent in all IOCs. In Release 8 and onwards, all IOCs defined are
considered to have such inherent "transient state" characteristics.
{width="5.073611111111111in" height="0.6666666666666666in"}
  * rolename (subclause 3.43.2.6 of [5]).
This sample shows a Person (say instance John) is associated with a Company
(say instance XYZ). We navigate the association by using the opposite
association-end such as John.theCompany =\"XYZ\". Use noun for the rolename.
{width="3.323611111111111in" height="0.5736111111111111in"}
## 5.2 Stereotype
This subclause defines all allowable stereotypes that are summarized in the
following table. Except \>, \> and \> (which are
defined in [5]), all other stereotypes are extensions specifically designed
for use in IRP IS specifications.
Table: Stereotypes
* * *
Stereotype Base Class Affected Metamodel Elements Interface Class  
Type Class  
ProxyClass Class  
Notification Class  
Archtetype Classifier (subclause 2.5.2.10 of [5])  
InformationObjectClass Classifier  
use Association  
may use Association  
may realize Association  
emits Association  
names Composition -- opt (alternatively «optional») ModelElement Attribute,
Parameter, and Operation
* * *
### 5.2.1 \>
Subclause 2.5.2.25 of [5]:
\"An interface is a named set of operations that characterize the behaviour of
an element. In the metamodel, an Interface contains a set of Operations that
together define a service offered by a Classifier realizing the Interface. A
Classifier may offer several services, which means that it may realize several
Interfaces, and several Classifiers may realize the same Interface.
Interfaces may not have Attributes, Associations, or Methods. An Interface may
participate in an Association provided the Interface cannot see the
Association; that is, a Classifier (other than an Interface) may have an
Association to an Interface that is navigable from the Classifier but not from
the Interface.\"
Subclause 2.5.4.6 of [5]: \"The purpose of an interface is to collect a set of
operations that constitute a coherent service offered by classifiers.
Interfaces provided a way to partition and characterize groups of operations.
An interface is only a collection of operations with a name. It cannot be
directly instantiated. Insatiable classifiers, such as class or use case, may
use interfaces for specifying different services offered by their instances.
Several classifiers may realize the same interface. All of them must contain
at least the operations matching those contained in the interface. The
specification of an operation contains the signature of the operation (i.e.
its name, the types of the parameters and the return type). An interface does
not imply any internal structure of the realizing classifier. For example, it
does not include which algorithm to use for realizing an operation. An
operation may, however, include a specification of the effects [e.g. with pre
and post-conditions] of its invocation.\"
#### 5.2.1.1 Sample
This sample shows an AlarmIRPOperations_1 \> that has two
operations. The input and output parameters of the operations are hidden (i.e.
not shown). The AlarmIRP has a unidirectional mandatory realization
relationship with the \>.
{width="4.680555555555555in" height="1.0666666666666667in"}
\> Notation
### 5.2.2 \>
Subclause 3.28 of [5]: \"[A Type is] a domain of objects together with the
operations applicable to the objects, without defining the physical
implementation of those objects. A Type may not contain any methods, maintain
its own thread of control, or be nested. However, it may have Attributes and
Associations. The Associations of a Type are defined solely for the purpose of
specifying the behaviour of the Type\'s operations and do not represent the
implementation of state data\".
#### 5.2.2.1 Sample
This sample shows the NotificationIRPNotification \> that specifies
the five parameters (the notification header of Notification IRP). The
AlarmIRPNotification_2 \> depends (see the dependency
relationship, a dashed open arrow line) on this \> for the
construction of the notification emitted via the operation
notifyChangedAlarm().
{width="4.959722222222222in" height="1.8in"}
\> Notation
### 5.2.3 \>
It is a form or template representing a number of
\>. It encapsulates attributes, links, methods (or
operations), and interactions that are present in the represented
\>.
The semantics of a \> is that all behaviour of the
\> is present in the represented \>.
Since this class is simply a representation of other classes, this class
cannot define its own behaviour other than those already defined by the
represented \>.
A particular \> can be represented by zero, one or
more \> or \>. For example, the ManagedElement
\> can have MonitoredEntity \> and
ManagedEntity \>.
The attributes of the \> are accessible by the source entity
that has an association with the \>.
#### 5.2.3.1 Sample
This shows a \> named MonitoredEntity. It represents all NRM
\> (e.g. GgsnFunction \>)
whose instances are being monitored for alarm conditions.
Note that \> does not define attributeA. The attributeA is
already defined by all \> represented by the
\>, i.e. ClassA and ClassB.
{width="6.2in" height="1.45in"}
\> Notation Sample 1
See Annex A for more samples that use \>.
### 5.2.4 \>
It is a form or template representing a number of
\>. It encapsulates attributes, links, operations,
and interactions that are typical of the represented
\>.
The semantics of an \> is that all attributes, links operations
and interactions encapsulated by the \> may or may not be present
in the represented \>. The \>
represents a placeholder class that is most useful in technology neutral
analysis models that will require further specification and/or mapping within
a more complete construction model.
#### 5.2.4.1 Sample
This shows a \> named StateManagement. It also shows a
\> IRPAgent that depends on this StateManagement.
Note that the StateManagement has defined a number of attributes, the classes
that depend on this StateManagement may or may not use all of the
StateManagement attributes. In other words, at least one of the attributes of
StateManagement is present in the IRPAgent. The precise set of StateManagement
attributes used by the IRPAgent is specified in the IRPAgent specification.
{width="4.882638888888889in" height="1.0666666666666667in"}
\> Notation
### 5.2.5 \>
It is the descriptor for a set of network resources and network management
capabilities. Each \> represents a set of instances
with similar structure, behaviour and relationships.
This \> and other information classes such as
\> are mapped into technology specific model elements. The
mapping of IS modelling constructs to technology specific modelling constructs
are captured in the corresponding IRP Solution Set specifications.
The name of a \> has scope within the 3GPP IRP IS
document in which it is specified and the name must be unique among all
\> names within that 3GPP IRP IS document. The IRP
IS document name is considered in the similar way as the UML Package-name.
The \> is identical to UML _class_ except that it
does not include/define methods or operations.
Subclause 3.22.1 of [5]: \"A _class_ represents a concept within the system
being modelled. Classes have data structure and behaviour and relationships to
other elements.\"
#### 5.2.5.1 Sample
This sample shows an AlarmList \>.
{width="1.979861111111111in" height="1.0666666666666667in"}
\> Notation
### 5.2.6 \> and \>
The \> and \> are unidirectional associations. The target
must be an \>. The \> states that the source class must
have the capability to use the target \> in that it can invoke
the operations defined by the \>. Support of the capability by
the source entity is mandatory. The \> states that the source class
may have the capability to use the target \> in that it may
invoke the operations defined by the \>. Support of the
capability by the source entity is optional.
The operations defined by the \> are visible across the Itf-N and
Itf-P2P.
#### 5.2.6.1 Sample
This shows that the NotificationIRPAgent shall use the notifyNewAlarm and
notifyChangedAlarm of AlarmIRPNotification_1 and may use the
notifyChangedAlarm of AlarmIRPNotification_2.
{width="5.076388888888889in" height="2.3229166666666665in"}
\> and \> Notation
### 5.2.7 Relationship realize and \>
The relationship realize and \> are unidirectional association.
The target must be an \>. The relationship \"realize\" shows that
the source entity must realize the operations defined by the target
\>. Realization of operations by the source entity is mandatory.
The \> shows the source entity may realize the operations
defined by the target \>. Realization of the \> by
the source entity is optional.
The operations defined by \> are visible across the Itf-N and
Itf-P2P.
#### 5.2.7.1 Sample
This shows that the AlarmList shall realize (or support, implement) the two
operations of AlarmIRPOperations_1 and may realize the operation of
AlarmIRPOperations_2.
{width="4.853472222222222in" height="2.2631944444444443in"}
Relationship realize and \> Notations
### 5.2.8 \>
This is a unidirectional association. The source sends information to target.
In the case that the target is NotificationIRPAgent, the information will then
carry the semantics of 3GPP notification (e.g. notifyObjectCreation,
notifyNewAlarm) such that the target NotificationIRPAgent can construct the
relevant 3GPP notification for reception by the IRPManager.
This stereotype is used for communication across interfaces that are neither
Itf-N nor Itf-P2P.
#### 5.2.8.1 Sample
This shows the MonitoredEntity (e.g. a GgsnFunction instance) emits
notifications that are received by the NotificationIRPAgent. The emission is
invisible across the Itf-N and Itf-P2P.
{width="4.0569444444444445in" height="0.6868055555555556in"}
\> Notation
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="1.8229166666666667in"}
\>, \> and realize relationship Notation
### 5.2.9 \>
It specifies a unidirectional composition. The target instance is uniquely
identifiable, within the namespace of the source entity, among all other
targeted instances of the same target classifier and among other targeted
instances of other classifiers that have the same \> composition with
the source.
Composition used as the act of name containment provides a semantic of a
whole-part relationship between the domain and the named elements that are
contained, even if only by name. From the management perspective access to the
part is through the whole. Multiplicity shall be indicated on both ends of the
relationship.
A target can not have multiple \> with multiple sources, i.e. a
target can not participate in or belong to multiple namespaces.
By convention, the name of the attribute in the target model element to hold
part of the unique identification shall be formed by the name of the target
class concatenated with \"Id\". There are two presentation options for the
unique identification attribute of the class being named.
1) The use of the role qualifier allows the unique identification > attribute
to be attached to the target end of the \ > association (see the following
figure).
2) The unique identification attribute may be indicated as a normal >
attribute within the class attribute compartment.
#### 5.2.9.1 Sample
This shows that all instances of ManagedFunction are uniquely identifiable
within the ManagedElement namespace. Note the use of the label supports in
specifications is optional.
{width="5.542361111111111in" height="0.6152777777777778in"}
\> Notation, Composition and explicit Qualifier
### 5.2.10 \>
The \> (alternatively \>) enables the indication of
optionality of attributes, parameters and operations (respectively) within the
UML diagrams. The semantics of optionality are clearly defined in TS 32.150
[3].
In the absence of the stereotype, the attribute, parameter, or operation in
question is mandatory.
Example of the use of optionality indicator for operations
#### 5.2.10.1 Sample
{width="1.5131944444444445in" height="1.6194444444444445in"}
\> Notation for operations
### 5.2.11 \>
\> is a named set of notifications. In the metamodel, a
\> contains a set of Notifications that together define a
service offered by a Classifier realizing the \>.
#### 5.2.11.1 Sample
This sample shows a \> named "PMIRPNotifications_1" that has
one notification and a \> named "PMIRPNotifications_2" that
has three notifications.
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="2.8618055555555557in"}
\> Notation
### 5.2.12 \>
This is a unidirectional association. The source passes network management
information to target. The source and target are entities or processes running
in different IRP instances such as AlarmIRP, PMIRP. The instances may be name-
contained by the same IRPAgent or different IRPAgent instances. The precise
network management information passed and the information transfer mechanism
are not standardized and are vendor-specific.
#### 5.2.12.1 Sample
This shows that NLIRP (NotificationLog IRP) can pass some network management
information to FileIRP.
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="0.6333333333333333in"}\> Notation
## 5.3 Void
## 5.4 Association classes
Subclause 3.46 of OMG: \"Unified Modelling Language Specification, Version
1.51\" [5] http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/formal/uml.htmd defines an
association class as
> \"An association class is an association that also has class properties (or
> a class that has association properties).\ Even though it is drawn as an
> association and a class, it is really just a single model element.\".
Association classes are appropriate for use when an «InformationObjectClass»
needs to maintain associations to several other «InformationObjectClass»\'s
and there are relationships between the members of the associations within the
scope of the \"containing\" «InformationObjectClass». For example, a namespace
maintains a set of bindings, a binding ties a name to an object. A Binding
«IOC» can be modelled as an Association Class that provides the binding
semantics to the relationship between a name and some other
«InformationObjectClass». This is depicted in the following figure (exemplary
only, not taken from another 3GPP specification).
{width="5.083333333333333in" height="3.8090277777777777in"}
Example of an Association Class
## 5.5 Abstract Class
It specifies a \> as a base class to be inherited by
subclasses. An abstract class can not be.
Abstract class notation is the use of italics in the class name of the
corresponding \> in the diagram.
### 5.5.1 Sample
This shows that ManagedGenericIRP is an abstract \>.
{width="2.3368055555555554in" height="2.723611111111111in"}
Abstract Class Notation
###### ## Annex A (informative): Samples of using \> to model
Link related IOCs
# A.1 First Sample
This shows a \> named YyyFunction. It represents all IOCs listed
in the Note under the UML diagram. All the listed IOCs, in the context of this
sample, inherit from ManagedFunction IOC.
The use of \> eliminates the need to draw multiple UML
\> boxes, i.e. those whose names are listed in the
Note, in the UML diagram.
{width="1.979861111111111in" height="2.1569444444444446in"}
> Note: The YyyFunction \> represents AsFunction, AucFunction,
> BgFunction, ...
\> Notation Sample A.1
# A.2 Second Sample
This shows a \> named YyyFunction. It represents all IOCs listed
in the Note right under the UML diagram. All the listed IOCs, in the context
of this sample, have link (internal and external) relations.
The actual names of the IOC represented by InternalYyyFunction
\> and by the ExternalYyyFunction \> are listed
under the subsection of X.Y of the associated YyyFunction. For example, under
X.Y.1 for AsFunction, two paragraphs are added to list all peer internal
entities and external entities that are linked with AsFunction. See sample in
quotation below that is using AsFunction as a sample for YyyFunction.
The actual names of the IOC represented by Link_a_z \> and by
ExternalLink_a_z \> are listed under the subsection of X.Y of
the associated YyyFunction. For example, under X.Y.1 for AsFunction, two
paragraphs are added to list the names of the IOCs represented by Link_a_z and
by ExternalLink_a_z. See the quoted text below that is using AsFunction as a
sample for YyyFunction.
> "
### X.Y.1 AsFunction
#### X.Y.1.1 Definition
> This IOC represents As functionality. For more information about the As, see
> 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
>
> The linked InternalYyyFunction \> represents SlsFunction,
> CscfFunction, HlrFunction ...
>
> The linked ExternalYyyFunction \> represents ...
>
> The Link_a_z \> represents Link_As_Scscf, Link_Bgcf_Scscf ...
>
> The ExternalLink_a_z \> represents ...
>
> "
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="1.554861111111111in"}
NOTE: The 'Yyy' of YyyFunction \> represents AsFunction,
AucFunction, ...
\> Notation Sample A.2
#