# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is part of a series of documents that specify charging
functionality and charging management in GSM/UMTS networks. The GSM/UMTS core
network charging architecture and principles are specified in 3GPP TS 32.240
[1], which provides an umbrella for other charging management TSs that
specify:
\- the content of the CDRs per domain and subsystem (offline charging),
\- the content of real-time charging messages per domain / subsystem (online
charging);
\- the functionality of online and offline charging for those domains and
subsystems;
> \- the interfaces that are used in the charging framework to transfer the
> charging information (i.e. CDRs or charging events)
The complete document structure for these TSs is defined in TS 32.240 [1].
The present document specifies the Offline and Online Charging for MultiMedia
Telephony (MMTel) service and supplementary services, based on the functional
description of MMTel in 3GPP TS 22.173 [200]. Charging for the following
supplementary services is specified:
  * **Communications Diversion (CDIV)**
  * Communication Hold (HOLD)
  * **CONFerence (CONF)**
  * Message Waiting Indication (MWI)
  * Originating Identity Presentation (OIP) **/** Originating Identity Restriction (OIR)
  * Terminating Identity Presentation (TIP) **/** Terminating Identity Restriction (TIR)
  * Call Barring (CB)
  * Explicit Call Transfer (ECT)
  * Communication Wait (CW)
Editor's Note: Specification of other MMTel supplementary services is FFS.
Charging of these supplementary services is performed at the respective MMTel
AS. The MMTel charging aspects are an extension of the basic IMS charging
capabilities as specified in the TS 32.260 [20].
This charging description includes the offline and online charging
architecture and scenarios specific to the MMTel, as well as the mapping of
the common 3GPP charging architecture specified in TS 32.240 [1] onto the
MMTel. It further specifies the structure and content of the CDRs for offline
charging, and the charging events for online charging.
The present document is related to other 3GPP charging TSs as follows:
  * The common 3GPP charging architecture is specified in TS 32.240 [1];
  * The common IMS charging principles are specified in the TS 32.260 [20].
  * The parameters, abstract syntax and encoding rules for these CDR types are specified in TS 32.298 [51].
  * A transaction based mechanism for the transfer of CDRs within the network is specified in TS 32.295 [54].
  * The file based mechanism used to transfer the CDRs from the network to the operator's billing domain (e.g. the billing system or a mediation device) is specified in TS 32.297 [52].
  * The 3GPP Diameter application that is used for MMTel offline and online charging is specified in\ TS 32.299 [50].
All references, abbreviations, definitions, descriptions, principles and
requirements, used in the present document, that are common across 3GPP TSs,
are defined in the 3GPP Vocabulary, TR 21.905 [100]. Those that are common
across charging management in GSM/UMTS domains or subsystems are provided in
the umbrella document TS 32.240 [1]. Finally, those items that are specific to
the present document are defined exclusively in the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.240: \"Telecommunication management; charging management;
charging architecture and principles\".
[2]-[19] Void
[20] 3GPP TS 32.260: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management; IP
Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) charging\".
[21]-[49] Void.
[50] 3GPP TS 32.299: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Diameter charging application\".
[51] 3GPP TS 32.298: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Data Record (CDR) parameter description\".
[52] 3GPP TS 32.297: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Data Record (CDR) file format and transfer\".
[53] 3GPP TS 32.296: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Online Charging System (OCS) applications and interfaces\".
[54] 3GPP TS 32.295: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Data Record (CDR) transfer\".
[55]-[99] Void.
[100] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[101] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service Principles\".
[102] 3GPP TS 22.115: \"Service aspects; Charging and billing\".
[103] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network Architecture\".
[104]-[199] Void.
[200] 3GPP TS 22.173: \" Multimedia Telephony Service and supplementary
services;stage 1\".
[201] 3GPP TS 24.173: \"IMS multimedia telephony communications service and
supplementary services stage3\".
[202] 3GPP TS 24.604: \"TISPAN- PSTN/ISDN simulation services: Communication
Diversion (CDIV);\ Protocol specification\".
[203] 3GPP TS 24.605: . \"Conference (CONF) using IP Multimedia (IM) Core
Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\".
[204] 3GPP TS 24.606: \"Message Waiting Indication (MWI) using IP Multimedia
(IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\". .
[205] 3GPP TS 24.607: \"Originating Identification Presentation (OIP) and
Originating Identification Restriction (OIR) using IP Multimedia (IM) Core
Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\".
[206] 3GPP TS 24.608: \"Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP) and
Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)using IP Multimedia (IM) Core
Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\".
[207] 3GPP TS 24.610: \"Communication HOLD (HOLD) using IP Multimedia (IM)
Core Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\".
[208] 3GPP TS 24.611: \"Anonymous Communication Rejection (ACR) and
Communication Barring (CB)using IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN)
subsystem; Protocol specification\".
[209] 3GPP TS 24.615: \"Communication Waiting (CW) using IP Multimedia (IM)
Core Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol Specfication\".
[210] 3GPP TS 24.616: \"Malicious Communication Identification (MCID) using IP
Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\".
[211] 3GPP TS 24.623: \"Extensible Markup Language (XML) Configuration Access
Protocol (XCAP) over the Ut interface for Manipulating Simulation Services\".
[212] 3GPP TS 24.629: \"Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT) using IP
Multimedia (IM)Core Network (CN) subsystem;; Protocol specification\".
[213] 3GPP TS 24.642: \"Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
and Completion of Communications by No Reply (CCNR) using IP Multimedia
(IM)Core Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol Specification\".
[214] 3GPP TS 24.647: \"Advice Of Charge (AOC) using IP Multimedia (IM)Core
Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol Specification\".
[215] 3GPP TS 24.654: \"Closed User Group (CUG) using IP Multimedia (IM) Core
Network (CN) subsystem, Protocol Specification\".
[216]-[299] Void.
[300]- [399] Void.
[400] Void.
[401] IETF RFC 3588: \"diameter base protocol\".
[402] IETF RFC 4006: \"Diameter Credit Control Application\".
[403]-[499] Void.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [100], 3GPP TS 32.240 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations defined in 3GPP TR
21.905 [100], 3GPP TS 32.240 [1] and the following apply:
MMTel MultiMedia Telephony
CB Communication session Barring
CCBS Completion of Communication sessions to Busy Subscriber
CCNR Completion of Communications on No Reply
CD Communication Deflection
CDIV Communication DIVersion
CFB Communication Forwarding Busy
CFU Communication Forwarding Unconditional
CFNL Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in
CFNR Communication Forwarding No Reply
CFNRc Communication Forwarding on Subscriber Not Reachable
CFUDB Communication Forwarding User Determined Busy
CONF CONFerence
CW Communication Waiting
ECT Explicit Communication Transfer
HOLD Communication HOLD
ICB Incoming Communication Barring
MWI Message Waiting Indication
NDUB Network Determined User Busy
OCB Outgoing Communication Barring
OIP Originating Identity Presentation
OIR Originating Identity Restriction
TIP Terminating Identity Presentation
TIR Terminating Identity Restriction
URN Uniform Resource Name
# 4 Architecture Considerations
## 4.1 High level MMTel architecture
Figure 4.1 depicts the IMS reference architecture, as described in 3GPP TS
23.002 [103], with \"colorized \" AS as entity involved in MMTel service and
supplementary services charging described in this specification.
Figure 4.1-1: Entities involved in MMTel service charging in IMS logical
architecture
The AS provides the application level network functionality for MMTel service
and supplementary services, whereas the overall IMS Network provides the basic
IMS capabilities supporting MMTel service.
## 4.2 MMTel offline charging architecture
Figure 4.2 depicts the MMTel offline charging architecture.
Figure 4.2-1: MMTel Offline Charging architecture
This MMtel Offline Charging architecture is based on the IMS offline charging
architecture described in TS 32.260 [20], with service CTFs supporting MMtel
specific service charging, interfacing the CDF through the Rf reference point.
The CTFs considered in the MMTel Offline Charging architecture reside in the
Application level network functionality providing MMTel service and
supplementary services.
The CTFs related to charging for the IMS basic capabilities supporting MMTel
service, are described in TS 32.260 [20], and reside in the set of IMS Nodes
(S-CSCF, MRFC...) reflected in IMS offline architecture.
## 4.3 MMTel online charging architecture
NOTE: MMTel online charging is not specified in this release.
# 5 MMTel charging principles and scenarios
There are a variety of multimedia telephony supplementary services implemented
at different IMS nodes. All the services should support subscription based
charging, and some also consumption based charging. The subscription based
charging is out of the scope of the present specifications.
The following table 5.1 summarizes which of the services are applicable for
offline and online charging.
Table 5.1: Relevance of the services for offline and online charging
* * *
Supplementary services Offline Charging Online Charging OIP X - OIR X - TIP X
- TIR X - CW X - HOLD X - CB X - MWI X - CONF X - CDIV X - ECT X -
* * *
## 5.1 MMTel charging principles
The MMTel charging encompasses the Multimedia telephony service (e.g.
multimedia conversational communications between two or more users, with
speech as a typical usage, and also others combinations of media) together
with the associated supplementary services charging aspects.
Every Supplementary services described in TS 22.173 [202] are subject to be
involved in MMTel charging function description.
Editor's note:
The whole IMS supplementary services list from 22.173 [202] is considered,
although some of them could have no implication on charging: this need to be
investigated and to be captured.
MMTel service and supplementary services charging function focuses on charging
information provided by the CTFs supporting MMtel specific service charging:
calling user identification, called user identification, media component
characteristics and usage (speech only, speech with other component,
add/retrieve components..), supplementary services applied ...It enables to
apply different flexible charging based on supplementary service type and
options.
All the CTFs supporting MMtel specific service charging (AS) pertain to IMS
domain, and as explained in TS 32.260 [20], it is possible to correlate
session/transaction related charging data generated from these different Nodes
(AS), and others IMS Nodes involved in the session used for MMTel service
handling , based on IMS Charging Identifier (ICID).
### 5.1.1 Supplementary services invocation
Editor's note:
This chapter will specify for each supplementary service, if the invocation
need to trigger charging, and which possible relevant information need to be
provided during the service execution for charging.
### 5.1.1.1 OIP charging
The OIP service provides the terminating user with the possibility of
receiving trusted (i.e. network‑provided) identity information in order to
identify the originating user.
The charging of the OIP subscribers is measured by the MMTel AS handling OIP
in offline charging only.
### 5.1.1.2 OIR charging
The OIR service is a service offered to the originating user. It restricts
presentation of the originating user\'s identity information to the
terminating user.
The charging of the OIR subscribers is measured by the MMTel AS handling OIR
in offline charging only.
### 5.1.1.3 TIP charging
The **Terminating Identification Presentation** (**TIP)** service provides the
originating party with the possibility of receiving trusted information in
order to identify the terminating party.
The charging of the TIP subscribers is measured by the MMTel AS handling TIP
in offline charging only.
### 5.1.1.4 TIR charging
The **Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)** is a service offered to
the terminating party which enables the terminating party to prevent
presentation of the terminating identity information to originating party.
The charging of the TIP subscribers is measured by the MMTel AS handling TIR
in offline charging only.
### 5.1.1.5 HOLD charging
The Communication Hold supplementary service enables a user to suspend the
media stream(s) of an established IP multimedia session, and resume the media
stream(s) at a later time.
The charged parties may be any of the Hold parties. These roles are:
  * Calling Party;
  * **Called Party;**
Editor's note: When one of the parties originates a new call to a third party
and the new call overbooks the bearer resource reserved by the held call,
overbooking may be taken into account in charging. The solution for that is
ffs
### 5.1.1.6 CB charging
The **Communication Barring (CB)** service offers the following services:
  * The Incoming Communications Barring (ICB) is a service that rejects incoming communications that fulfil certain provisioned or configured conditions on behalf of the terminating user.
  * The Anonymous Communication Rejection **(ACR)** is a particular case of the ICB service, that allows barring of incoming communications from an anonymous originator on behalf of the terminating user.
  * The **Outgoing Communication Barring (OCB)** is a service that rejects outgoing communications that fulfil certain provisioned or configured conditions on behalf of the originating user.
The charging of the CB subscribers is measured by the MMTel AS handling CB in
offline charging only.
### 5.1.1.7 CDIV charging
The **Communications Diversion (CDIV)** services enables the diverting user,
to divert the communications addressed to the diverting user to another
destination.
There are three actors active in a CDIV service of one diversion with the
following roles:
  * **Diverting user; the party that initiates the diversion of an > incoming communication.**
  * **Originating user; the party which has initiated the communication > and that stays in the communication which is diverted;**
  * **Diverted to user;**
**In case there is another diversion, the user that was first the diverting
user (user B), will be the originating user in the second diversion. The
diverted to user of the first diversion (user C) will be the diverting user of
the second diversion.**
The charging of the diverting user for the B-C leg is measured by the MMTel AS
handling the CDIV service, i.e. by the MMTel AS of the diverting user (user
B). For the diverting user a separate charging dialog is needed. Charging of
the originating and the terminating user (user C) is done in alignment with
the TS 32.260 [20].
Typically the diverting user is charged for the forwarded leg (B-C leg),
however, normal roaming charging principles apply for the diverted to user
also in case of communication diversion. If there is another diversion, the
user that performs the second diversion (user C) is charged (typically) for
the new forwarded leg (C-D leg).
Charging at the S-CSCF is done in alignment with the TS 32.260 [20] but the
S-CSCF has no knowledge of the CDIV service.
### 5.1.1.8 CW charging
The CW (Communication Waiting) service enables the application server to
indicate to the subscriber, that there is at least one new communication is
requested, and that no resources are available for that incoming
communication. The user has then the choice of accepting, rejecting or
ignoring the incoming communication. The maximum number of communications that
may be waiting is a service provider option. If the current number of
communications waiting is equal to the maximum, then any new attempted
incoming communication request shall be rejected with a busy cause.
The charging of the CW subscribers is measured by the MMTel AS handling CW in
offline charging only.
### 5.1.1.9 ECT charging
The Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT) service provides a party involved in
a communication to transfer that communication to a third party.
There are three actors active in a transfer, they are acting in the following
roles:
  * **transferor: the party that initiates the transfer of the active > communication that it has with the transferee;**
  * **transferee: the party which stays in the communication which is > transferred;**
  * **transfer target: the party which the communication is transferred > to and which replaces the transferor in the communication.**
The charging of the Transferor is measured by the MMTel AS handling the ECT
service for the Transferor. The charging of the Transferee is measured by the
MMTel AS handling the ECT service for the Transferee.
### 5.1.1.10 MWI charging
The MWI service enables the application server to indicate to the subscriber,
that there is at least one message waiting. The indication is delivered to the
subscriber\'s UE after successful subscription to the Message Waiting
Indication service as described in the present document.
The charging of the MWI subscribers is measured by the MMTel AS handling MWI
in offline charging only.
### 5.1.1.11 CONF charging
The **CONFerence (CONF)** service enables a user to participate in and control
a simultaneous communication involving a number of users.
CONF Charging for the conference owner could be based on:
  * establishment of the conference
  * number of participants
  * duration
CONF Charging for the conference participants could be based on:
  * duration
The charging of the conference owners and participants is measured by the SIP
AS and MRFC handling conference service. For each participant (call leg) a
separate charging dialog at the SIP AS is needed.
### 5.1.2 Supplementary services management by User
When an IMS supplementary service control can be provided to the UE as a
subscription option, every action performed by the user for this service
(Provision/Withdrawal, Registration/Erasure, Activation/Deactivation,
interrogation) may be subject to produce charging information, but this aspect
is out of the scope of the present specification.
## 5.2 MMTel offline charging scenarios
5.2.1 Basic principles
The MMTel offline charging functionality is based on the CTFs reporting
accounting information, by sending Diameter _Accounting Requests_ (ACR)
[start, interim, stop and event] to the CDF.
The circumstances on which the Diameter client uses ACR start, interim and
stop, or Events depend on the supplementary service type and is determined for
each of them. Further details are specified in clause 5.2.2.
These Diameter Accounting Request triggers may be configured in such a way
several MMTel supplementary services can be regrouped. Providing this
flexibility will allow to improve situations where several MMTel supplementary
services are handled within the same AS for complying with interactions
requirements associated to these MMTel supplementary services.
### 5.2.2 Diameter message flows
The flows described in the present document specify the charging
communications between the different CTF entities and the charging functions
for different charging scenarios. The SIP messages and Diameter transactions
associated with these charging scenarios are shown primarily for general
information and to illustrate the charging triggers. They are not intended to
be exhaustive of all the SIP message flows discussed in TS 24.228 [200] and
they depend on the Diameter Accounting Requests triggers configured by the
operator.
Although each MMTel supplementary service is described by separated flows
illustrating the dedicated trigger(s) for this MMTel supplementary service,
the Diameter Accounting Request triggers (as stated in 5.2.1), may be
configured with several MMtel supplementary services information.
#### 5.2.2.1 Message Flows - Successful Cases and Scenarios
Following message flows are defined in TS 32.260 [20], and can be re-used for
charging the basic multimedia telephony capabilities:
  * Session Establishment - IMS Origination
  * Session Establishment -- IMS Termination
  * Mid-Session Procedures
  * Session Release - Mobile Initiated
##### 5.2.2.1.1 **OIP Originating Identification Presentation**
Figure 5.2.2.1.1-1 shows the Diameter transactions that are required between
Application Server and CDF, which implements the OIP service, and CDF after
service execution.
Figure 5.2.2.1.1-1: Message Sequence Chart for Offline charging of OIP
service.
#####
##### 5.2.2.1.2 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
Figure 5.2.2.1.2-1 shows the Diameter transactions that are required between
Application Server and CDF, which implements the OIR service, and CDF after
service execution.
Figure 5.2.2.1.2-1: Message Sequence Chart for Offline charging of OIR
service.
##### 5.2.2.1.3 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)
Figure 5.2.2.1.3-1 shows the Diameter transactions that are required between
Application Server and CDF, which implements the TIP service, and CDF after
service execution.
Figure 5.2.2.1.3-1: Message Sequence Chart for Offline charging of TIP
service.
##### 5.2.2.1.4 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
Figure 5.2.2.1.4-1 shows the Diameter transactions that are required between
Application Server and CDF, which implements the TIR service, and CDF after
service execution.
Figure 5.2.2.1.4-1: Message Sequence Chart for Offline charging of TIR
service.
##### 5.2.2.1.5 **Communication Hold** (HOLD)
Figure 5.2.2.1.5-1 shows the Diameter transactions that are required between
AS which implements the HOLD service, and CDF after service execution. The
involvement of the AS is optional as it is involved to the HOLD service
provision only for announcement purposes.
Figure 5.2.2.1.5-1: Message Sequence Chart for Offline charging of HOLD
service.
Note: Based on TS 24.610 a scenarion triggerted by Re-Invite is also possible.
##### 5.2.2.1.6 **Communication Barring** \-- CB (ICB/ACB)
###### 5.2.2.1.6.1 Communication Barring (CB) -- ICB and ACR
Figure 5.2.2.1.6.1-1 shows the Diameter transactions that are required between
Application Server and CDF, which implements the CB service, and CDF after
service execution.
**Figure 5.2.2.1.6.1-1: Message Sequence Chart for Offline charging of CB
service.**
#####
###### 5.2.2.1.6.2 Communication Barring (CB) -- OCB
Figure 5.2.2.1.6.2-1 shows the Diameter transactions that are required between
Application Server and CDF, which implements the CB service, and CDF after
service execution.
Figure 5.2.2.1.6.2-1: Message Sequence Chart for Offline charging of CB
service.
##### 5.2.2.1.7 **Communications Diversion (CDIV)**
###### 5.2.2.1.7.1 Communications Diversion (CDIV) -- successful establishment
The following figure shows the Diameter transactions that are required between
Application Server, implementing the CDIV service and CDF for a successful
communication forwarding on no reply.
Figure 5.2.2.1.7.1-1 : Message Sequence Chart for Offline charging of CDIV
service - establishment
A communication is requested towards User B, user B has activated the CFNR
1) INVITE request incoming for User B. Based on the Initial Filter Criteria
(IFC) Rules, indicating that User B is subscribed to the CDIV supplementary
services, the communication is forwarded to an AS implementing AS implementing
CDIV. Then INVITE is forwarded to User B,
2) 180 ringing is sent back from User B.
3) The non-reply timer in the AS is started .
4) The timer expires.
5 to 7) The AS implementing the CDIV service performs the Call Forwarding No
Reply logic: release the communication to User B, and forward the call towards
user C (INVITE request including URI-C as destination).
8) The destination User C party answers and a final response is received.
9) Upon reception of the final response, the AS implementing the CDIV service
sends an _Accounting-Request_ with _Accounting-Record-Type_ indicating
START_RECORD/EVENT_RECORD to record call forwarding execution (start of the
forwarded leg from User B to User C): basic communication information are
transferred with specific call forwarding information (service mode= "CFNR",
associated number = " user B" as the user who invoked the call forwarding).
10) The CDF acknowledges the reception of the data and opens/creates an AS CDR
to record the forwarded leg from User B to User C.
NOTE : Although only the "call forwarding on no reply" case is depicted here ,
it serves as a basis for all other call forwarding modes description (Call
Forwarding Unconditional, Call Deflection, Call Forwarding on Busy, Call
Forwarding Not Logged-in ) for ACR generation : In all these cases, the AS AS
implementing the CDIV service sends an _Accounting-Request_ with _Accounting-
Record-Type_ indicating START_RECORD to record call forwarding execution
(whatever the mode), when the final response is received from user-C.
###### 5.2.2.1.7.2 Communications Diversion (CDIV) -- release
The next figure shows the Diameter transactions occurring on release of the
previous established communication, initiated by user C:
Figure 5.2.2.1.7.2-1: Message Sequence Chart for Offline charging of CDIV
service -release
1) User C initiates release of the communication
2) At session termination the AS implementing the CDIV service, sends an
_Accounting-Request_ with _Accounting-Record-Type_ indicating STOP_RECORD to
record stop the call for which User B has been forwarded. The AS CDR is
closed.
##### 5.2.2.1.8 Communication Waiting Charging (CW)
The following figure shows the Diameter transactions that are required between
Application Server, which implements the CW service and CDF for the callee
(subscriber of CW).
Figure 5.2.2.1.8-1 : Message Sequence Chart for Offline charging of CW service
1-2). The communication is initiated by UE-A by sending an INVITE request. The
Request URI will include the URI of UE-B. After IFC evaluation in the S-CSCF
the INVITE request is routed to the CW AS.
2a). The AS detects the CW condition and inserts a CW indication into the
INVITE request per procedures.
3-4). The INVITE is routed to UE-B.
5). UE-B recognizes the CW indication per procedures.
6). UE-B sends back a 180 (Ringing) response.
[6a. out of scope: user B uses the HOLD service or releases a session in order
to free resources]
7-8). The 180 (Ringing) response is routed back to the AS.
8a). The AS optionally inserts a Alert-Info with a \'CW\' URN into the 180
(Ringing) response.
9-10). The 180 (Ringing) response is routed back to the communication origin.
[9a. The AS may initiate an announcement to the calling user that the
communication is a waiting communication, in accordance with 3GPP TS 24.628
[4].]
11-14). UE-B sends back a 200 (OK) response to the CW AS and CW AS sends it to
the S-CSCF.
15-17). The CW AS sends Accounting Request[Event] to CDF, CDF creates an AS
CDR and returns Accounting Answer to the CW AS.
18). S-CSCF sends back a 200(OK) response to UE-A.
##### 5.2.2.1.9 Explicit Communication transfer (ECT)
###### 5.2.2.1.9.1 Explicit Communication transfer (ECT) : Blind Transfer
The following figure shows the Diameter transactions that are required between
Application Servers implementing the ECT service for the transferor and for
the transferee, and CDF: a successful Blind Transfert from User A to User C,
initiated by User B
For diagram simplification, only one CDF is shown.
Figure 5.2.2.1.9.1-1 : Message Sequence Chart for Offline charging of ECT
service -- Blind Transfer (part1)
Figure 5.2.2.1.9.1-2 : Message Sequence Chart for Offline charging of ECT
service -- Blind Transfert (part 2)
In this scenario User A is the transferee, User B is the transferor, and User
C is the transfer target.
User A and User B are in an established communication for which, based on the
Initial Filter Criteria (IFC) Rules indicating that User B is subscribed to
the ECT supplementary service, the INVITE was forwarded to an AS implementing
ECT (for User A and User B).
User B puts User A on Hold
1) User B sends REFER request in the existing A-B dialog, to initiate transfer
User A to User C.
2) this subsequent request is forwarded to the AS implementing ECT.
3) AS generates an "ECT Session Identifier" replacing User C as the new
destination information, for remaining in the loop, for transferor's role.
4) On REFER receipt, this request is forwarded the AS implementing ECT.
5) The REFER is accepted by User A, and 202 Accepted is transferred from User
A to User B.
6-9) User B sends BYE for terminating original INVITE with User A,
acknowledged by 200 OK from User A. AS B releases the media between User A and
User B which are on hold, then sends an _Accounting-Request_ with _Accounting-
Record-Type_ indicating STOP_RECORD to record termination of the dialogue
between User A and User B.
10) More signalling between (User A,x-CSCF,AS-A ) and (x-CSCF,AS-B,User B) :
User A sends NOTIFY(100 Trying) associated to the received REFER, and User B
acknowledges by 200 OK
11) User A initiates a new session by sending an INVITE request with " ECT
Session Identifier" .
12) AS implementing the ECT service correlates this INVITE to the initial
session to be transferred and replaces "ECT Session Identifier" with User C
for creating an INVITE towards UE-C.
13) The destination User C party answers and a final response is received.
14) Upon reception of the final response, the AS implementing the ECT service
for the transferor, sends an Accounting-Request with Accounting-Record-Type
indicating START_RECORD/EVENT_RECORD to record Transfer execution.
15) The CDF acknowledges the reception of the data and opens/creates an AS
CDR.
16) Upon reception of the final response, the AS implementing the ECT service
for the transferee, sends an Accounting-Request with Accounting-Record-Type
indicating START_RECORD/EVENT_RECORD to record User A is transferred, with
specific indicator on the transferee's "subscriber role" (whether the
transferee was engaged in an originating call or in a terminating call) before
the transfer execution.
17) The CDF acknowledges the reception of the data and opens/creates an AS
CDR.
NOTE : The \"Consultative Transfer\" scenario mainly differs from the \"Blind
transfer\" on the transfer establishment phase : when User B has put User A on
Hold, User B establishes a communication towards User C and puts User C on
Hold, then User B initiates the REFER for the transfer triggering. The
Accounting-Record-Type indicating START_RECORD for recording Transfer
execution occurs at the same steps for both scenario: on the final response
associated to INVITE towards User C for the transferor and for the transferee.
###### 5.2.2.1.9.2 Explicit Communication transfer (ECT)) : Release
The following figure shows the Diameter transactions that are required between
Application Servers implementing the ECT service for the transferor and for
the transferee, and CDF: release from User A, after a successful Blind
Transfer from User A to User C, initiated by User B.
Figure 5.2.2.1.9.2-1 : Message Sequence Chart for Offline charging of ECT
service -- Release
1) User A initiates release of the communication
2-3) At session termination the AS implementing the ECT service for the
transferee, sends an _Accounting-Request_ with _Accounting-Record-Type_
indicating STOP_RECORD to record stop the call for which User A has been
transferred.
4-5) At session termination the AS implementing the ECT service for the
transferor, sends an _Accounting-Request_ with _Accounting-Record-Type_
indicating STOP_RECORD to record stop the call transferred by User B. The AS
CDR is closed.
##### 5.2.2.1.10 Message Waiting Indication Charging (MWI)
The following figure shows the Diameter transactions that are required between
Application Server (MWI), which implements the MWI service and CDF.
Figure 5.2.2.1.10-1 : Message Sequence Chart for Offline charging of MWI
service
1-6) UE subscribes to AS (MWI) and the AS (MWI) returns 200 OK.
7-10) The AS (MWI) sends NOTIFY request to S-CSCF and the subscriber UE
acknowledges the NOTIFY request.
11-13) The AS (MWI) sends Accounting Request [Event] message to CDF, CDF
creates an AS CDR and returns Accounting Answer to the AS (MWI).
##### 5.2.2.1.11 CONF Charging
During a conference, user could create the conference, join the conference,
invite another user to the conference and leave the conference, according to
3GPP TS24.605. The following subclauses respectively show the Diameter
transactions that are required between Application Server, which implements
the CONF service and CDF corresponding different conference scenarios.
###### 5.2.2.1.11.1 CONF Charging -- user creating a conference
Figure 5.2.2.1.11.1-1 : Message Sequence Chart for Offline charging of CONF
service- User creating a conference
1-2). The communication is initiated by UE#1 by sending an INVITE request to
S-CSCF. And S-CSCF sends back 100 Trying reponse to inform UE#1 to wait for a
while because the request is being treated.
3-4). S-CSCF transfers INVITE request from UE#1 to CONF AS and the CONF AS
sends back 100 Trying response to inform S-CSCF to wait for a while because
the request is being treated.
5). The CONF AS allocates the conference URI.
6-16). After the media resource negociation process, the CONF AS sends back
200 ok response.
17-19). The CONF AS sends Accounting Request[Start]/Accounting Request[Event]
to CDF, then the CDF opens/creates an AS CDR for the conference with CONF
indication on the AS CDR and renturns Accounting Answer to the CONF AS.
######
###### 5.2.2.1.11.2 CONF Charging -- user joining a conference
The following figure shows the Diameter transactions that are required between
Application Server, which implements the CONF service and CDF corresponding to
the conference scenario: user joining a conference.
Figure: 5.2.2.1.11.2-1 CONF Charging -- user joining a conference
1-2). The conference has already been created. UE#1 sends an INVITE request to
S-CSCF in order to join in the conference. And S-CSCF sends back SIP 100
Trying reponse to inform UE#1 to wait for a while because the request is being
treated.
3-4). S-CSCF transfers INVITE request from UE#1 to CONF AS and the CONF AS
sends back SIP 100 Trying response to inform S-CSCF to wait for a while
because the request is being treated.
5-15). After the media resource negociation process, the CONF AS sends back
SIP 200 ok response.
16-18). The CONF AS sends Accounting Request[Interim/Event] to CDF, CDF
updates or creates an AS CDR for the conference and renturns Accounting Answer
to the CONF AS.
###### 5.2.2.1.11.3 CONF Charging -- user inviting another user to a
conference
The following figure shows the Diameter transactions that are required between
Application Server, which implements the CONF service and CDF corresponding to
the conference scenario: user being invited into a conference.
Figure: 5.2.2.1.11.3-1 CONF Charging -- user inviting another user to a
conference
1-2). The conference has already been created. UE#1 sends a REFER request to
S-CSCF in order to invite UE#2 into the conference.
3-4). The CONF AS sends back 202 Accepted response to UE#1 via some related
NEs like S-CSCF to indicate that he has received the REFER request
successfully.
5-6). The CONF AS sends a NOTIFY request corresponding the REFER request to
UE#1.
7-8). UE#1 sends back SIP 200 ok reponse to the CONF AS.
9-10). The CONF AS sends an INVITE request to UE#2 in order to invite him into
the conference. And UE#2 sends back SIP 200 ok response to the CONF AS.
11-13) The CONF AS sends Accounting Request [Interim/Event] to CDF, CDF
updates or creates an AS CDR for the conference and renturns Accounting Answer
to the CONF AS.
###### 5.2.2.1.11.4 CONF Charging -- user leaving a conference
The following figure shows the Diameter transactions that are required between
Application Server, which implements the CONF service and CDF corresponding to
the conference scenario: user leaving a conference.
Figure: 5.2.2.1.11.4-1 CONF Charging -- user leaving a conference
1-2). The conference has already been created. UE#1 sends a BYE request to the
CONF AS in order to quit the conference.
3-5). The CONF AS sends Accounting Request[Interim/Event] to CDF, CDF updates
or creates an AS CDR for the conference and renturns Accounting Answer to the
CONF AS. Conference termination should refer to the description of subclause
5.3.2.7 in TS 24.147, e.g. If there isn't any conference policy and the last
online conference user quits the conference could be considered as the
conference termination, when the last online conference user quits the
conference (sends a BYE request to the CONF AS), the CONF AS sends Accounting
Request [Stop/Event] to CDF, CDF stops or creates an AS CDR for the conference
and returns Accounting Answer to the CONF AS.
6-7). The CONF AS sends back SIP 200 ok response to UE#1.
8-10). The CONF AS sends a NOTIFY request to other conference participants
that UE#1 has quitted the conference.
11-12). Other conference participants sends back SIP 200 ok response to the
CONF AS.
#### 5.2.2.2 Message Flows - Error Cases and Scenarios
Error cases and Scenarios for SIP related procedures and Diameter related
procedures used for MMTel Service and Supplementary Services Charging are
defined in TS 32.260 [20].
### 5.2.3 GTP' record transfer flows
As in IMS offline charging, GTP' is not used between CDF and CGF for MMTel
offline charging, because CDF and CGF are combined into CCF.
### 5.2.4 B~I~ CDR file transfer
For further details on the Bi protocol application refer to 3GPP TS 32.297
[52].
## 5.3 MMTel online charging scenarios
NOTE: MMTel Online charging is not specified in this release.
### 5.3.1 Basic principles
-(Void).
### 5.3.2 Diameter message flows
(Void)
# 6 Definition of charging information
## 6.1 Data description for MMTel offline charging
### 6.1.1 Rf Diameter message contents
For offline charging, the different service CTFs supporting MMtel specific
service charging generate accounting information transferred to the CDF using
the Diameter accounting application, as described in the TS 32.299 [50].
The _Charging Data Request_ and _Charging Data Response_ are used _for this
MMTel service offline charging, as described in TS 32.260 [20]._
#### 6.1.1.1 Charging Data-Request Message Description
The generic _Charging Data-Request message described in TS 32.260_[20] _used
for MMTel offline charging is_ enhanced with specific MMTel service
information.
The following table illustrates the overall _Charging Data-Request_ message as
used for MMTel offline charging.
Table 6.1.1.1 : Charging Data Request Message Contents
* * *
Field Category Description See _Charging Data-Request_ message fields
described in TS 32.260 [20]  
Service Information O~M~ This field holds the MMTel specific parameter and is
described in clause 6.3.
* * *
NOTE: Detailed descriptions of the fields are provided in 3GPP TS 32.299 [50].
#### 6.1.1.2 Charging Data Response Message Description
The generic _Charging Data-Responset message described in TS 32.260_[20] _is
used for MMTel offline charging._
### 6.1.2 GTP' message contents
Not applicable. Refer to subclause 5.2.3 for further information.
### 6.1.3 CDR Description on the Bi Interface
#### 6.1.3.1 CDR Field Type
The MMTel CDR content and format description is based on _TS 32.260_[20] AS-
CDR description, enhanced with specific MMTel service information.
The content of MMTel CDR type is defined in the table in clause 6.1.3.3. The
field definition includes the field name, category and description. The
detailed field descriptions are provided in TS 32.298 [51].
The CDF provides the CDRs at the Bi interface in the format and encoding
described in TS 32.298 [51]. Additional CDR formats and contents may be
available at the interface to the billing system to meet the requirements of
the billing system, these are outside of the scope of 3GPP standardisation.
#### 6.1.3.2 CDR Triggers
Accounting information for MMTel services charging is transferred from the
CTFs supporting MMtel service charging to the CDF, using Charging Data Request
start, interim stop or Event messages, depending on MMTel service behaviour
(detailed in clause 5.2.2). Within the CDF, the CDRs triggering follows the
same principle as described for SIP sessions in _TS 32.260_[20] _: MMTel CDR
is opened upon_ reception of a Charging Data Request [start] message, closed
_upon_ reception of a Charging Data Request [stop] message, updated _upon_
reception of a Charging Data Request [Interim], and created _upon_ reception
of a Charging Data Request [event].
#### 6.1.3.3 MMTel-AS CDR Content
The MMTel CDR content and format description is based on _TS 32.260_[20] AS-
CDR description, enhanced with specific MMTel service informations.
The following table illustrating the overall MMTel CDR content, is extracted
from _TS 32.260_[20] _AS-CDR Charging data table, and adaptated for MMTel
service, with specific descriptions and new MMtel information field._
The detailed description of the field is provided in TS 32.298 [51].
Table 6.1.3.3: Charging Data of MMTel CDR
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Field | Category | Description | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Record Type | M | Identifies the MMTel | | | | service record. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Retransmission | O~C~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | SIP Method | O~C~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Event | O~C~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Expires Information | O~C~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Role of node | O~M~ | This fields indicates the | | | | role of the AS | | | | implementing MMTel service | | | | and supplementary services | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Node Address | O~M~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Session ID | O~M~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Session Priority | O~C~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | List Of Calling Party | O~M~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | Address | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Called Party Address | O~M~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | **Number Portability |** O~C~**| Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | routing information** | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | **Carrier Select routing |** O~C~**| Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | information** | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Requested Party Address | O~C~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | List of Subscription Id | O~M~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | List of Called Asserted | O~C~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | Identity | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Service Request Time Stamp | O~M~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Service Delivery Start | O~M~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | Time Stamp | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Service Delivery End Time | O~C~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | Stamp | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Record Opening Time | O~C~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Record Closure Time | O~M~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Inter Operator Identifiers | O~C~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Local Record Sequence | O~M~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | Number | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Record Sequence Number | O~C~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Cause For Record Closing | O~M~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Incomplete CDR Indication | O~C~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | IMS Charging Identifier | O~M~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | List of Early SDP Media | O~C~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | Components | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | List of SDP Media | O~C~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | Components | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | GGSN Address | O~C~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Service Reason Return Code | O~M~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | List of Message Bodies | O~C~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Access Network Information | O~C~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Service Context Id | O~M~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | IMS Communication Service | O~C~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | ID | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | MMTel information | O~C~ | This field includes a list | | | | of MMTel supplementary | | | | services which may occur | | | | within the same AS. | | | | | | | | The MMTel supplementary | | | | services related | | | | informations are described | | | | in Clause 6.3.1.2. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Record Extensions | O~C~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
## 6.2 Data description for MMTel online charging
NOTE: MMTel online charging is not specified in this release.
### 6.2.1 Diameter message contents
NOTE: Diameter message contents for MMTel online charging are not specified in
this release.
## 6.3 MMTel Charging Specific Parameters
### 6.3.1 Definition of MMTel charging information
The MMTel Information parameter used for MMTel charging is provided in the
Service Information parameter.
#### 6.3.1.1 MMTel charging information assignment for Service Information
The components in the Service Information that are use for MMTel charging can
be found in Table 6.3.1.1.
Table 6.3.1.1: Service Information used for MMTel Charging
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Field | Category | Description | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Service Information | OM | A set of fields hold the | | | | 3GPP specific parameter as | | | | defined in | | | | 3GPP TS 32.299 [50]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Subscription Id | OM | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | IMS Information | OC | A set of fields hold the | | | | IMS specific parameters. | | | | The details are defined in | | | | 3GPP TS 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Event Type | OC | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Role of Node | OC | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Node Functionality | OM | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | User Session ID | OC | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Session Priority | O~C~ | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Calling Party Address | OC | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Called Party Address | OC | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | > **Number Portability | OC | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | > routing information** | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | > **Carrier Select routing | OC | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | > information** | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | | | | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Requested Party Address | OC | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Called Asserted Identity | OC | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Time stamp | OC | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Inter Operator Identifier | OC | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | IMS Charging Identifier | OC | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Early Media Description | OC | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | SDP Session Description | OC | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | SDP Media Components | OC | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Message Bodies | OC | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Access Network Information | OC | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | IMS Communication Service | OC | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | Id | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Cause Code | OC | Used as defined in 3GPP TS | | | | 32.260 [20]. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | MMTel Information | OM | This field holds a set of | | | | MMTel services with theirs | | | | specific parameters. The | | | | details are defined in | | | | clause 6.3.1.2. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
#### 6.3.1.2 Definition of the MMTel Information
MMTel specific charging information is provided within the MMTel Information,
and the detailed structure of the MMTel Information can be found in table
6.3.1.2.
Table 6.3.1.2: Structure of the MMTel Information
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Field | Category | Description | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Supplementary Service | O~M~ | This is a grouped field | | | | comprising several | | | | sub-fields associated with | | | | one supplementary service. | | | | It can be present multiple | | | | times as necessary to | | | | present the parallel | | | | activity of the different | | | | supplementary services. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | > Service Type | O~M~ | This field holds the type | | | | of the Supplementary | | | | Service, i.e. OIP, OIR, | | | | TIP, TIR, CW, HOLD, CB, | | | | MWI, CONF, CDIV, ECT. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | > Service Mode | O~C~ | This field holds the mode | | | | of specific Service Type, | | | | i.e. for CB: ACR, ICB, OCB | | | | and for CDIV: CFU, CFB, | | | | CFNR, CFNRc, CFNL, CFUDB. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | | | | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | > Number of diversions | Oc | This field holds the | | | | number of diversions for | | | | CDIV. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | > Associated party address | O~C~ | This field holds | | | | additional party | | | | identification needed for | | | | the service charging, i.e. | | | | for CDIV the "forwarding | | | | party", for ECT the | | | | "transferor", | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | | | | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | > Service id | O~C~ | This field holds the | | | | conference ID for CONF | | | | supplementary service | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | > Change Time | O~C~ | This field holds the time | | | | of the requested action | | | | indicated in the | | | | "Participant Action Type" | | | | during the CONF | | | | supplementary service. It | | | | provides the time stamps | | | | for the CONF supplementary | | | | service parameters | | | | reporting. | | | | | | | | When the action is set to | | | | "CREATE", this field | | | | indicates the start time | | | | of the CONF supplementary | | | | service. | | | | | | | | When the action is set to | | | | "QUIT" and Number Of | | | | Participants holds the | | | | value "0", this field | | | | indicates the end time of | | | | the CONF supplementary | | | | service. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | > Number Of Participants | O~C~ | This field holds the | | | | number of parties who are | | | | currently attached to the | | | | Conference at the time | | | | stamped indicated in the | | | | "Change Time", for the | | | | CONF supplementary | | | | service. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | > Participant Action Type | O~C~ | This field holds the | | | | participant action type | | | | for CONF supplementary | | | | service (CREATE_CONF, | | | | JOIN_CONF, INVITE_CONF, | | | | QUIT_CONF) at the time | | | | stamped indicated in the | | | | "Change Time". | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Subscriber role | O~M~ | This field indicates | | | | subscriber role | | | | (originating party or | | | | terminating party) for UE | | | | when AS acts as B2BUA role | | | | and used for AS only | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
Editor's Note : content and structure (Service Type and Service Mode)
described in this table is to be further finalized
#### Support of MMTel Information in MMTel Offline Charging
In table 6.3.1.3, the supported Operation Types for Service Type field within
the MMTel Information on the Rf interface are presented. The other MMTel
Information fields are not detailed.
The supported Operation Types for Service Information fields, used in the
Charging Data Request and Response messages for MMTel charging, other than
MMTel Information fields, are described in TS 32.260 [20].
Operation Types for Service Type, encompasse the various situations, where the
basic MMTel service Charging Data Request messages are sent from:
  * a separate entity (another AS or S-CSCF), than the AS implementing the supplementary service,
  * the same AS.
Each service may be reported through a dedicated Charging Data Request Message
or combined Charging Data Request Messages (regrouped supplementary services
or with basic MMTel service).
Table 6.3.1.3: Supported values for Service Type in MMTel Information.
+-------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | Field | | +-------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | Node Type | AS | +-------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | Supported Operation Types | S/I/S/E | +-------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | | | +-------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | > Service Type | | +-------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | OIP (see note 1) | SISE | +-------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | OIR | SISE | +-------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | TIP | SISE | +-------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | TIR (see note 2) | SISE | +-------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | CW | SISE | +-------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | HOLD (see note 3) | SISE | +-------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | CB (see note 2) | SISE | +-------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | MWI | ---E | +-------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | CONF | SISE | +-------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | CDIV | SISE | +-------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | ECT | SISE | +-------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | NOTE 1: Only present at terminating side. | | | | | | NOTE 2: Terminating side service. | | | | | | NOTE 3: AS may be involved for announcement purposes. | | +-------------------------------------------------------+---------+
#### 6.3.1.4 Support of MMTel Information in MMTel Online Charging
NOTE: The support of MMTel Information in MMTel online charging is not
specified in this release.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Bibliography
**a) The 3GPP charging specifications**
\- 3GPP TS 32.250: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Circuit Switched (CS) domain charging\".
\- 3GPP TS 32.251: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management; Packet
Switched (PS) domain charging\".
\- 3GPP TS 32.252: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) charging\".
\- 3GPP TS 32.271: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Location Services (LCS) charging\".
\- 3GPP TS 32.272: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management; Push-
to-talk over Cellular (PoC) charging\".
\- 3GPP TS 32.273: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Multimedia Broadcast and Multicast Service (MBMS) charging\".
\- 3GPP TS 32.274: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management; Short
Message Service (SMS) charging\".
**b) Common 3GPP specifications**
\- 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".
**c) other Domain and Service specific 3GPP / ETSI specifications**
\- 3GPP TS 22.002: \"Circuit Bearer Services (BS) supported by a Public Land
Mobile Network
\- 3GPP TS 22.003: \"Circuit Teleservices Supported by a Public Land Mobile
Network (PLMN)\".
\- 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on Supplementary Services\".
\- 3GPP TS 23.009: \"Handover procedures\"
\- 3GPP TS 23.040: \"Technical realization of the Short Message Service
(SMS)\".
\- 3GPP TS 23.140: \"Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS); Functional
description; Stage 2\".
\- 3GPP TS 23.271: \"Location Services (LCS); Functional description; Stage
2\".
**d) Relevant ITU Recommendations**
\- ITU-T Recommendation E.164: \"The international public telecommunication
numbering plan\".
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.767: \"Application of the ISDN user part of CCITT
signalling System No.7 for international ISDN interconnections\".
\- ITU-T Recommendation X.25: \"Interface between Data Terminal Equipment
(DTE) and Data Circuit-terminating Equipment (DCE) for terminals operating in
the packet mode and connected to public data networks by dedicated circuit\".
\- ITU-T Recommendation X.121: \"International numbering plan for public data
networks\".
**e) Relevant IETF RFCs**
\- IETF RFC 959 (1985): \"File Transfer Protocol\".
\- IETF RFC1350: \"The TFTP Protocol (Revision 2)\".
#