# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.301: Configuration Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Requirements
32.302: Configuration Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)
**32.303: Configuration Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set
(SS)**
32.305: Configuration Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference
Point **(IRP): eXtensible Markup Language (XML) definition**
32.307: Configuration Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) Solution Set (SS)
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and
they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations
Systems (OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimisation programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as a single action on a NE of the 3G network or
as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many NEs.
The Itf-N interface is built up by a number of Integration Reference Points
(IRPs) and a related Name Convention, which realise the functional
capabilities over this interface. The basic structure of the IRPs is defined
in 3GPP TS 32.101 [5] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [6].
Network Elements (NEs) under management and element managers generate
notifications of events about occurrences within the network. Different kinds
of events carry different kinds of information. For instance a new alarm as
specified in Alarm IRP: Information Service [1], is one possible kind of
event, an object creation as specified in Basic CM IRP: Information Service
[8] is another possible kind of event.
Information of an event is carried in notification. An IRPAgent (typically an
EM or a NE) emits notifications. IRPManager (typically a network management
system) receives notifications. The purpose of Notification IRP is to define
an interface through which an IRPManager can subscribe to IRPAgent for
receiving notifications.
This IRP bases its design on work captured in ITU-T Recommendation X.734 [2],
OMG Notification Service [4]. The central design ideas are:
  * Separation of notification Consumers (IRPManagers) from Producers > (IRPAgents);
  * Notifications are sent to IRPManagers without the need for > IRPManagers to periodically check for new notifications.
Common characteristics related to notifications in all other IRPs are gathered
in one IRP.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Common Object Request Broker Architecture
(CORBA) Solution Set (SS) for the IRP whose semantics is specified in
Notification IRP: Information Service (3GPP TS 32.302 [5]).
This Solution Set specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.302.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] ITU-T Recommendation X.736: \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Systems Management: Security alarm reporting function\".
[2] OMG TC Document telecom (98-11-01): \"Summary of responses to real time
survey\".
[3] OMG CORBA services: Common Object Services Specification, Update: November
22, 1996. (Clause 4 contains the Event Service Specification).
[4] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Information Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.301: \"Telecommunication Management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.111-3: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
3: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker
Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.311: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management: Requirements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [7], 3GPP TS 32.102 [8] and 3GPP TS 32.301 [9] and the
following apply:
**IRP document version number string (or \"IRPVersion\"):** See 3GPP TS 32.311
[11].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture (OMG)
EC Event channel (OMG)
EM Element Manager
IDL Interface Definition Language (OMG)
IOR Interoperable Object Reference
IS Information Service
NC Notification Channel (OMG)
NE Network Element
NV Name and Value pair
OMG Object Management Group
QoS Quality of Service
SS Solution Set
UML Unified Modelling Language (OMG)
# 4 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of Notification IRP is specified in 3GPP TS
32.302 [5]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the CORBA
Solution Set (SS).
## 4.1 Notification services
In the CORBA Solution Set, notifications are emitted by IRPAgent using CORBA
Notification service (OMG TC Document telecom [2]) and Structured Events.
CORBA Event service (OMG CORBA services [3]) provides event routing and
distribution capabilities. CORBA Notification service provides, in addition to
Event service, event filtering and support for Quality of Service (QoS) as
well.
A subset of CORBA Notification services shall be used to support the
implementation of notification. This CORBA Notification service subset, in
terms of OMG Notification service (OMG TC Document telecom [2]) defined
methods, is identified in the present.
### 4.1.1 Support of Push and Pull Interface
The IRPAgent shall support the OMG Notification push interface model.
Additionally, it may support the OMG Notification pull interface model as
well.
### 4.1.2 Support of multiple notifications in one push operation
For efficiency, IRPAgent uses the following OMG Notification Service (OMG TC
Document telecom [2]) defined interface to pack multiple notifications and
push them to IRPManager using one method push_structured_events. The method
takes as input a parameter of type EventBatch as defined in the OMG
CosNotification module (OMG TC Document telecom [2]). This data type is a
sequence of Structured Events (see clause 4). Upon invocation, this parameter
will contain a sequence of Structured Events being delivered to IRPManager by
IRPAgent to which it is connected.
The maximum number of events that will be transmitted within a single
invocation of this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide configuration
parameter. The amount of time IRPAgent will accumulate individual events into
the sequence before invoking this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide
configuration parameter as well.
IRPAgent may push EventBatch with only one Structured Event.
The OMG Notification service (OMG TC Document telecom [2]) defined IDL module
is shown below.
module CosNotifyComm {
> ...
>
> Interface SequencePushConsumer : NotifyPublish {
>
> void push_structured_events(
>
> in CosNotification::EventBatch notifications)
>
> raises( CosEventComm::Disconnected);
>
> ...
>
> }; // SequencePushConsumer
...
}; // CosNotifyComm
### 4.1.3 Support of filterable and non-filterable notification parameters
The OMG Notification service defined IDL CosNotification::StructuredEvent and
CosNotification::EventBatch data types are shown below.
struct StructuredEvent {\ EventHeader header;\ FilterableEventBody
filterable_data;\ any remainder_of_body;\ }; // StructuredEvent
typedef sequence\ EventBatch;
Notification IS parameters are mapped:
\- either to the Structured Event header, i.e. above IDL StructuredEvent data
structure field header;
\- or to the Structured Event body, and in this case:
\- when defined in the IS as filterable, to the Structured Event filterable
body fields, i.e. above IDL StructuredEvent data structure field
filterable_data;
\- when defined in the IS as non-filterable, to the Structured Event remaining
body, i.e. above IDL StructuredEvent data structure field remainder_of_body.
The OMG Notification service defined IDL CosNotification::FilterableEventBody
data type and its supporting types are shown below.
struct Property {\ PropertyName name;\ PropertyValue value;\ };
typedef sequence\ PropertySeq;
typedef PropertySeq FilterableEventBody;
In order to ensure uniform implementation for notification IS parameters
mapped to Structured Event Name-Value pairs whether defined in the IS as
filterable or as non-filterable, IDL StructuredEvent data structure field
remainder_of_body of type any shall be mapped to the IDL data structure
NotificationIRPNotifications::NonFilterableEventBody defined in annex clause
A.5:
struct NonFilterableEventBody {\ CosNotification::PropertySeq
name_value_pairs;\ any remainder_of_non_filterable_body;\ };
# 5 Mapping
## 5.1 Operation mapping
Notification IRP: IS (3GPP TS 32.302 [5]) defines semantics of operations
visible across this IRP. These operations are the operations of the IOCs
defined in 3GPP TS 32.302 [5].
Table 1 maps the operations defined in Notification IRP: IS (3GPP TS 32.302
[5]) to their equivalents (methods) in this Solution Set (SS). Specifically,
the table 1 maps the operations of the IOCs defined in 3GPP TS 32.302 [5] to
their equivalents in this SS. Since one of the IOCs, the NotificationIRP IOC,
inherits from the ManagedGenericIRP IOC [4], the table 1 also maps the
operations of ManagedGenericIRP IOC to their equivalents (methods) in this SS.
Table 1 also qualifies if a method is Mandatory (M) or Optional (O).
Table 1: Mapping from IS Operation to SS Equivalents
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | IS Operations in | SS Methods | Qualifier | | 3GPP TS 32.302 [5] | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | subscribe | attach_push, | M, O, O | | | attach_push_b, | | | | attach_pull | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | unsubscribe | detach | M | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | getIRPVersion (see | get_notific | M | | note.) | ation_irp_versions | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | g | get_ | O | | etSubscriptionStatus | subscription_status | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | getSubscriptionIds | ge | O | | | t_subscription_ids | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | chan | If subscription is | See box on the left. | | geSubscriptionFilter | established using | | | | attach_push method, | | | | the SS equivalent | | | | shall be | | | | change_s | | | | ubscription_filter. | | | | The IDL | | | | specification of | | | | this method is | | | | included in annex A. | | | | This method is | | | | Optional (O). | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_push_b | | | | method, the SS | | | | equivalent shall be | | | | modify_constraints. | | | | The method is | | | | defined in OMG | | | | Notification Service | | | | Filter Interface | | | | (OMG TC Document | | | | telecom [2]). The | | | | IDL specification of | | | | this method is not | | | | included in annex A. | | | | If IRPAgent supports | | | | the optional | | | | attach_push_b | | | | method, it shall | | | | support this method | | | | as mandatory. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_pull method, | | | | the SS equivalent | | | | shall be | | | | modify_constraints. | | | | The method is | | | | defined by OMG | | | | Notification Service | | | | Filter Interface | | | | (OMG TC Document | | | | telecom [2]). The | | | | IDL specification of | | | | this method is not | | | | included in annex A. | | | | If IRPAgent supports | | | | the optional | | | | attach_pull method, | | | | it shall support | | | | this method as | | | | mandatory. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | suspendSubscription | If subscription is | See box on the left. | | | established using | | | | attach_push, there | | | | is no SS equivalent. | | | | In other words, | | | | IRPManager cannot | | | | suspend | | | | subscription. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_push_b, the | | | | SS equivalent shall | | | | be | | | | suspend_connection. | | | | This method is | | | | defined by OMG | | | | Notification Service | | | | (OMG TC Document | | | | telecom [2]). The | | | | IDL specification of | | | | this method is not | | | | included in annex A. | | | | If IRPAgent supports | | | | the optional | | | | attach_push_b | | | | method, it shall | | | | support this method | | | | as mandatory. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_pull, there | | | | is no SS equivalent. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | resumeSubscription | If subscription is | See box on the left. | | | established using | | | | attach_push, there | | | | is no SS equivalent. | | | | In other words, | | | | IRPManager cannot | | | | resume subscription. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_push_b, the | | | | SS equivalent shall | | | | be | | | | resume_connection. | | | | This method is | | | | defined by OMG | | | | Notification Service | | | | (OMG TC Document | | | | telecom [2]). The | | | | IDL specification of | | | | this method is not | | | | included in annex A. | | | | If IRPAgent supports | | | | the optional | | | | attach_push_b | | | | method, it shall | | | | support this method | | | | as mandatory. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_pull, there | | | | is no SS equivalent. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | getNo | get_noti | O | | tificationCategories | fication_categories | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | getOperationProfile | get | O | | (see note.) | _notification_irp\ | | | | _operations_profile | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ge | get_ | O | | tNotificationProfile | notification_irp_n | | | (see note.) | otification_profile | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE: These 3 | | | | operations are | | | | operations of | | | | ManagedGenericIRP | | | | IOC specified in | | | | 3GPP TS 32.312 | | | | [4]. The | | | | NotificationIRP IOC | | | | of 3GPP TS 32.302 | | | | [5] inherits from | | | | it. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 5.2 Operation parameter mapping
3GPP TS 32.302 [5] defines semantics of parameters carried in operations
across the Notification IRP. Table 2 through table 14 indicate the mapping of
these parameters, as per operation, to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table 2: Mapping from IS subscribe parameters to SS attach_push equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | managerReference | string manager_reference | M | | | (see note 1) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | timeTick | ManagedGenericIRPC | O | | | onstDefs::UnsignedLongOpt | | | | time_tick | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notificationCategories | No | O | | | tificationIRPConstDefs::N | | | | otificationCategorySetOpt | | | | notification_categories | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | filter | ManagedGener | O | | | icIRPConstDefs::StringOpt | | | | filter (see note 2) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | subscriptionId | Return value of type | M | | | NotificationIRP | | | | ConstDefs::SubscriptionId | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Attach, | M | | | ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::ParameterNotSupported, | | | | ManagedGenericIRP | | | | System::InvalidParameter, | | | | AlreadySubscribed, | | | | AtLeastOneNotific | | | | ationCategoryNotSupported | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | NOTE 1: IRPManager | | | | creates a | | | | CosNotifyC | | | | omm::SequencePushConsumer | | | | object and invokes | | | | CORBA | | | | ::ORB::object_to_string | | | | to obtain the stringified | | | | IOR, say s1. IRPManager | | | | stores the s1. IRPManager | | | | sends s1 as input | | | | parameter of attach_push | | | | to IRPAgent. IRPAgent | | | | receives s1, performs | | | | CORBA | | | | ::ORB::string_to_object | | | | to obtain the | | | | IRPManager\'s IOR and | | | | uses it for its future | | | | methods. IRPAgent also | | | | stores the s1 for future | | | | comparisons. IRPManager | | | | later calls detach with | | | | s1. IRPAgent receives the | | | | stringified IOR s1, | | | | compares it with those | | | | stored stringified IORs | | | | (e.g. s1), finds a match, | | | | and performs the detach | | | | process. IRPAgent pushes | | | | sequence of Structured | | | | Events towards IRPManager | | | | via the | | | | CosNotifyC | | | | omm::SequencePushConsumer | | | | object | | | | push_structured_events | | | | method, depending on the | | | | supplied notification | | | | categories and filter. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The grammar of | | | | the filter string is | | | | extended_TCL defined by | | | | OMG Notification Service | | | | (OMG TC Document telecom | | | | [2]). This SS and the | | | | Alarm IRP: CORBA SS | | | | [10] shall use this | | | | grammar only. | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 3: Mapping from IS subscribe parameters to SS attach_push_b equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | managerReference | string manager_reference | M | | | (see note 1) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | timeTick | ManagedGenericIRPC | O | | | onstDefs::UnsignedLongOpt | | | | time_tick | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notificationCategories | No | O | | | tificationIRPConstDefs::N | | | | otificationCategorySetOpt | | | | notification_categories | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | filter | ManagedGener | O | | | icIRPConstDefs::StringOpt | | | | filter (see note 2) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | subscriptionId | Return value of type | M | | | NotificationIRP | | | | ConstDefs::SubscriptionId | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | Not specified in IS. | CosNotifyChannelAdmin:: | M | | | SequenceProxyPushSupplier | | | | system_reference (see | | | | note 3) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Attach, | M | | | ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported, | | | | ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::ParameterNotSupported, | | | | ManagedGenericIRP | | | | System::InvalidParameter, | | | | AlreadySubscribed, | | | | AtLeastOneNotific | | | | ationCategoryNotSupported | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | NOTE 1: IRPManager | | | | creates a | | | | CosNotifyC | | | | omm::SequencePushConsumer | | | | object and invokes | | | | CORBA | | | | ::ORB::object_to_string | | | | to obtain the stringified | | | | IOR, say s1. IRPManager | | | | stores the s1. IRPManager | | | | sends s1 as input | | | | parameter of | | | | attach_push_b to | | | | IRPAgent. IRPAgent | | | | receives s1 and stores | | | | the s1 for future | | | | comparisons. IRPManager | | | | later calls detach with | | | | s1. IRPAgent receives the | | | | stringified IOR s1, | | | | compares it with those | | | | stored stringified IORs | | | | (e.g. s1), finds a match, | | | | and performs the detach | | | | process. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The grammar of | | | | the filter string is | | | | extended_TCL defined by | | | | OMG Notification Service | | | | (OMG TC Document telecom | | | | [2]). This SS and the | | | | Alarm IRP: CORBA SS | | | | [10] shall use this | | | | grammar only. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: IRPAgent provides | | | | this reference to which | | | | IRPManager can invoke | | | | methods to manage the | | | | subscription. Valid | | | | methods are not defined | | | | in this IRP. OMG CORBA | | | | Notification Service | | | | defines these methods. | | | | Read interface | | | | CosNotifyChannelAdmin:: | | | | SequenceProxyPushSupplier | | | | and | | | | CosNotifyCo | | | | mm::SequencePushConsumer. | | | | IRPManager is expected to | | | | invoke | | | | connect\ | | | | _sequence_push_consumer | | | | method of this interface | | | | to connect its own | | | | cosNotifyCo | | | | mm::SequencePushConsummer | | | | with this reference. | | | | After successful | | | | connection, IRPAgent | | | | pushes sequence of | | | | Structured Events towards | | | | IRPManager. | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 4: Mapping from IS subscribe parameters to SS attach_pull equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | managerReference | string manager_reference | M | | | (see note 1) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | timeTick | ManagedGenericIRPC | O | | | onstDefs::UnsignedLongOpt | | | | time_tick | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notificationCategories | No | O | | | tificationIRPConstDefs::N | | | | otificationCategorySetOpt | | | | notification_categories | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | filter | ManagedGener | O | | | icIRPConstDefs::StringOpt | | | | filter (see note 2) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | subscriptionId | Return value of type | M | | | NotificationIRP | | | | ConstDefs::SubscriptionId | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | Not specified in IS. | CosNotifyChannelAdmin:: | M | | | SequenceProxyPullSupplier | | | | system_reference (see | | | | note 3) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Attach, | M | | | ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported, | | | | ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::ParameterNotSupported, | | | | ManagedGenericIRP | | | | System::InvalidParameter, | | | | AlreadySubscribed, | | | | AtLeastOneNotific | | | | ationCategoryNotSupported | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | NOTE 1: IRPManager | | | | creates a | | | | CosNotifyC | | | | omm::SequencePullConsumer | | | | object and invokes | | | | CORBA | | | | ::ORB::object_to_string | | | | to obtain the stringified | | | | IOR, say s1. IRPManager | | | | stores the s1. IRPManager | | | | sends s1 as input | | | | parameter of attach_pull | | | | to IRPAgent. IRPAgent | | | | receives s1 and stores | | | | the s1 for future | | | | comparisons. IRPManager | | | | later calls detach with | | | | s1. IRPAgent receives the | | | | stringified IOR s1, | | | | compares it with those | | | | stored stringified IORs | | | | (e.g. s1), finds a match, | | | | and performs the detach | | | | process. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The grammar of | | | | the filter string is | | | | extended_TCL defined by | | | | OMG Notification Service | | | | (OMG TC Document telecom | | | | [2]). This SS and the | | | | Alarm IRP: CORBA SS | | | | [10] shall use this | | | | grammar only. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: IRPAgent provides | | | | this reference to which | | | | IRPManager can invoke | | | | methods to manage the | | | | subscription. Valid | | | | methods are not defined | | | | in this IRP. OMG CORBA | | | | Notification Service | | | | defines these methods. | | | | Read interface | | | | CosNotifyChannelAdmin:: | | | | SequenceProxyPullSupplier | | | | and | | | | CosNotifyCo | | | | mm::SequencePullConsumer. | | | | IRPManager is expected to | | | | invoke | | | | connect\ | | | | _sequence_pull_consumer | | | | method of this interface | | | | to connect its own | | | | CosNotifyCo | | | | mm::SequencePullConsummer | | | | with this reference. | | | | After successful | | | | connection, IRPManager | | | | pulls sequence of | | | | Structured Events from | | | | IRPAgent. | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 5: Mapping from IS unsubscribe parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier managerReference string
manager_reference M subscriptionId NotificationIRPConstDefs::SubscriptionIdOpt
subscription_id O status DetachException,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::ParameterNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter M
* * *
Table 6: Mapping from IS getIRPVersion parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier versionNumberSet Return
value of type ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumberSet M status
GetNotificationIRPVersions M
* * *
Table 7: Mapping from IS getSubscriptionStatus parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier subscriptionId
NotificationIRPConstDefs::SubscriptionId subscription_id M
notificationCategorySet Return value of type
NotificationIRPConstDefs::NotificationCategorySet M filterInEffect
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::StringOpt filter_in_effect O subscriptionState
NotificationIRPConstDef::SubscriptionStateOpt subscription_state O timeTick
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::UnsignedLongOpt time_tick O status
GetSubscriptionStatus, ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter M
* * *
Table 8: Mapping from IS getSubscriptionIds parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier managerReference string
manager_reference M subscriptionIdSet Return value of type
NotificationIRPConstDefs::SubscriptionIdSet M status GetSubscriptionIds,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter M
* * *
Table 9: Mapping from IS changeSubscriptionFilter parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier subscriptionId
NotificationIRPConstDefs::SubscriptionId subscription_id M filter string
filter M status ChangeSubscriptionFilter,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter M
* * *
Table 10: Mapping from IS suspendSubscription parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | subscriptionId | If subscription is | M | | | established using | | | | attach_push, there is no | | | | SS equivalent method. | | | | Therefore, there is no SS | | | | equivalent for this IS | | | | parameter. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_push_b, the SS | | | | equivalent method is | | | | suspend_connection. This | | | | method is defined by OMG | | | | Notification Service (OMG | | | | TC Document telecom | | | | [2]) and requires no | | | | parameter. Therefore, | | | | there is no SS equivalent | | | | for this IS parameter. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_pull, there is no | | | | SS equivalent method. | | | | Therefore, there is no SS | | | | equivalent for this IS | | | | parameter. | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | If subscription is | M | | | established using | | | | attach_push, there is no | | | | SS equivalent method. | | | | Therefore, there is no SS | | | | equivalent for this IS | | | | parameter. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_push_b, the SS | | | | equivalent method is | | | | suspend_connection. This | | | | method is defined by OMG | | | | Notification Service (OMG | | | | TC Document telecom | | | | [2]) and it returns a | | | | void. Therefore, there is | | | | no SS equivalent for this | | | | IS parameter. This | | | | suspend_connection | | | | method can raise OMG | | | | Notification Service (OMG | | | | TC Document telecom | | | | [2]) defined exception | | | | called | | | | C | | | | onnectionAlreadyInactive. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_pull, there is no | | | | SS equivalent method. | | | | Therefore, there is no SS | | | | equivalent for this IS | | | | parameter. | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 11: Mapping from IS resumeSubscription parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | subscriptionId | If subscription is | M | | | established using | | | | attach_push, there is no | | | | SS equivalent method. | | | | Therefore, there is no SS | | | | equivalent for this IS | | | | parameter. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_push_b, the SS | | | | equivalent method is | | | | resume_connection. This | | | | method is defined by OMG | | | | Notification Service (OMG | | | | TC Document telecom | | | | [2]) and requires no | | | | parameter. Therefore, | | | | there is no SS equivalent | | | | for this IS parameter. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_pull, there is no | | | | SS equivalent method. | | | | Therefore, there is no SS | | | | equivalent for this IS | | | | parameter. | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | If subscription is | M | | | established using | | | | attach_push, there is no | | | | SS equivalent method. | | | | Therefore, there is no SS | | | | equivalent for this IS | | | | parameter. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_push_b, the SS | | | | equivalent method is | | | | resume_connection. This | | | | method is defined by OMG | | | | Notification Service (OMG | | | | TC Document telecom | | | | [2]) and returns a | | | | void. Therefore, there is | | | | no SS equivalent for this | | | | IS parameter. This | | | | resume_connection method | | | | can raise OMG | | | | Notification Service (OMG | | | | TC Document telecom | | | | [2]) defined exception | | | | called | | | | ConnectionAlreadyActive. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_pull, there is no | | | | SS equivalent method. | | | | Therefore, there is no SS | | | | equivalent for this IS | | | | parameter. | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 12: Mapping from IS getNotificationCategories parameters to SS
equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier notificationCategoryList
Return value of type NotificationIRPConstDefs::NotificationCategorySet M Not
specified in IS. NotificationIRPConstDefs::NotificationTypesSetOpt
notification_type_list O status GetNotificationCategories,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported M
* * *
Table 13: Mapping from IS getOperationProfile parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier iRPVersion
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumber notification_irp_version M
operationNameProfile, operationParameterProfile Return of type
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::MethodList M status
GetNotificationIRPOperationsProfile,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter M
* * *
Table 14: Mapping from IS getNotificationProfile parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier iRPVersion
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumber notification_irp_version M
notificationNameProfile, notificationParameterProfile Return value of type
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::MethodList M status
GetNotificationIRPNotificationProfile,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter M
* * *
## 5.3 Notification parameter mapping
Notification IRP: IS (3GPP TS 32.302 [5]) defines the semantics of common
attributes carried in notifications. This SS does not provide the mapping of
these attributes to their CORBA SS equivalents. Other IRPs such as Alarm IRP:
IS (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [6]) identify and qualify these common attributes for use
in their environment. Their corresponding SS documents define the mapping of
these attributes to their SS equivalents.
# 6 IRPAgent\'s Behaviour
This clause describes some IRPAgent\'s behaviour not captured by IDL.
## 6.1 Subscription
IRPManager can invoke multiple attach_push, multiple attach_push_b or multiple
attach_pull using different manager_reference(s). As far as IRPAgent is
concerned, the IRPAgent will emit notifications to multiple \"places\" with
their independent filter requirements. IRPAgent will not know if the
notifications are going to the same IRPManager.
If IRPManager invokes multiple attach_push, attach_push_b or attach_pull using
the same manager_reference and with an already subscribed
notification_category, IRPAgent shall raise AlreadySubscribed exception to all
invocations except one.
IRPManager can invoke multiple attach_push using the same manager_reference
and with one or more not-yet-subscribed notification_categories. In this case,
if IRPAgent supports all the notification categories requested, IRPAgent shall
accept the invocation; otherwise, it raises
AtLeastOneNotificationCategoryNotSupported exception. IRPAgent shall have
similar behaviour for attach_push_b and attach_pull.
When IRPManager is in subscription by invoking attach_push, IRPManager can
change the filter constraint, using change_subscription_filter, applicable to
the notification categories specified in the attach_push.
When IRPManager is in subscription by invoking attach_push_b, IRPManager can
change the filter constraint during subscription using the OMG defined
Notification Service Filter Interface. IRPManager shall not use
change_subscription_filter; otherwise it shall get an exception.
## 6.2 IRPAgent supports multiple categories of Notifications
IRPAgent may emit multiple categories of Notifications. IRPAgent may have
mechanism for IRPManager to pull for notifications of multiple categories.
IRPManager can query IRPAgent about the categories of notifications supported
by using get_notification_categories.
IRPManager uses a parameter, notification_categories, in attach_push,
attach_push_b and attach_pull to specify one or more categories of
notifications wanted.
IRPManager uses a zero-length sequence in notification_categories of
attach_push, attach_push_b and attach_pull to specify that all IRPAgent
supported categories of notifications are wanted. If IRPManager uses
attach_push with zero-length sequence in notification_categories and if the
operation is successful, IRPAgent shall reject subsequent attach_push
operation, regardless if the notification_categories contains a zero-length
sequence or one or more specific notification categories. IRPAgent shall have
similar behaviour for attach_push_b and attach_pull.
## 6.3 IRPAgent\'s integrity risk of attach_push_b Method
In the case that IRPAgent implements this method by extending or using OMG
compliant Notification Service, the following IRPManager behaviour illustrates
a risk to IRPAgent\'s integrity.
Given the object reference (IOR) of the SequenceProxyPushSupplier (as the
mandatory output parameter of the subject method), IRPManager can invoke
SequenceProxyPushSupplier.MyAdmin method.
IRPManager can then obtain the consumer admin object of the proxy. Then
IRPManager can invoke ConsumerAdmin.MyChannel to get the IOR of the
Notification Channel. IRPManager then can call EventChannel.MyFactory which
will provide IRPManager the IOR of the EventChannelFactory itself. IRPManager
can then able to invoke methods directly on the EventChannelFactory, like
get_all_channels which lists all channel numbers and create_channel which
allows IRPManager to create any number of additional channels.
A malicious IRPManager can, given access to the EventChannelFactory, get a
list of existing channels and start connecting them together at random thus
compromising the IRPAgent\'s integrity. Deployment of this attach_push_b needs
strong authentication and authorisation mechanism in place.
The attach_push is mandatory. IRPAgent compliant to this IRP shall support it.
The attach_push_b is optional. It is recommended that IRPAgent concerned with
integrity risk should not support the attach_push_b option.
## 6.4 Quality of Service Parameters
The OMG Notification Service [2] supports a variety of Quality of Service
(QoS) properties, such as reliability and priority, that may be expressed to
indicate the delivery characteristics of notifications. The following OMG
Notification Service QoS parameter settings shall be required when the
IRPAgent uses the OMG Notification Service to support this SS:
1\. The order policy shall be set to FifoOrder (First-in, First-out) [2].
2\. The message priority shall be set to 0, i.e. no priority [2].
3\. The Start Time Supported shall be set to false, i.e. do not use Start Time
[2].
4\. The Stop Time Supported shall be set to false, i.e. do not use Stop Time
[2].
When the OMG Notification Service is not used, the IRPAgent shall provide
First-in, First-out notification ordering, not provide message priority and
not provide the support of Start Time and Stop Time.
###### ## Annex A (normative): IDL specifications
# A.1 IDL specification (file name \"ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs.idl\")
//File: ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs.idl
#ifndef _MANAGED_GENERIC_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#define _MANAGED_GENERIC_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs
This module contains definitions commonly used among all IRPs such as Alarm
IRP.
================================================================
*/
module ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs
{
/*
Definition imported from CosTime.
The time refers to time in Greenwich Time Zone.
It also consists of a time displacement factor in the form of minutes of
displacement from the Greenwich Meridian.
*/
typedef TimeBase::UtcT IRPTime;
enum Signal {OK, FAILURE, PARTIAL_FAILURE};
/*
The VersionNumber is a string that identifies the IRP specification name
and its version number. See definition \"IRP document version number
string\" or \"IRPVersion\".
The VersionNumberSet is a sequence of such VersionNumber. It is returned
by get_XXX_IRP_versions(). The sequence order has no significance.
*/
typedef string VersionNumber;
typedef sequence \ VersionNumberSet;
typedef string MethodName;
typedef string ParameterName;
typedef sequence \ ParameterList;
/*
The Method defines the structure to be returned as part of
get_supported_operations_profile(). The name shall be the actual method
name (ex. \"attach_push\", \"change_subscription_filter\", etc.)
The parameter_list contains a list of strings. Each string shall be
the actual parameter name (ex. \"manager_reference\", \"filter\", etc.)
*/
struct Method
{
MethodName name;
ParameterList parameter_list;
};
/*
List of all methods and their associated parameters.
*/
typedef sequence \ MethodList;
/*
StringOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present.
Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union StringOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: string value;
};
/*
ShortOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present.
Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union ShortOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: short value;
};
/*
UnsignedShortOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present.
Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union UnsignedShortOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: unsigned short value;
};
/*
LongOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present.
Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union LongOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: long value;
};
/*
UnsignedLongOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present.
Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union UnsignedLongOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: unsigned long value;
};
};
#endif // _MANAGED_GENERIC_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
# A.2 IDL specification (file name \"ManagedGenericIRPSystem.idl\")
//File: ManagedGenericIRPSystem.idl
#ifndef _MANAGED_GENERIC_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
#define _MANAGED_GENERIC_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: ManagedGenericIRPSystem
This module contains definitions commonly used among all IRPs such as Alarm
IRP.
================================================================
*/
module ManagedGenericIRPSystem
{
/*
Exception thrown when an unsupported optional parameter
is passed with information.
The parameter shall be the actual unsupported parameter name.
*/
exception ParameterNotSupported { string parameter; };
/*
Exception thrown when an invalid parameter value is passed.
The parameter shall be the actual parameter name.
*/
exception InvalidParameter { string parameter; };
/*
Exception thrown when a valid but unsupported parameter value is passed.
The parameter shall be the actual parameter name.
*/
exception ValueNotSupported { string parameter; };
/*
Exception thrown when an unsupported optional method is called.
*/
exception OperationNotSupported {};
};
#endif // _MANAGED_GENERIC_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
# A.3 IDL specification (file name \"NotificationIRPConstDefs.idl\")
//File: NotificationIRPConstDefs.idl
#ifndef _NOTIFICATION_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#define _NOTIFICATION_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: NotificationIRPConstDefs
This module contains definitions specific for Notification IRP.
================================================================
*/
module NotificationIRPConstDefs
{
/*
Define the parameters (in the notification header) specified in
the Notification IRP: IS.
*/
interface AttributeNameValue
{
const string NOTIFICATION_ID = \"a\";
const string EVENT_TIME = \"b\";
const string SYSTEM_DN = \"c\";
const string MANAGED_OBJECT_CLASS = \"d\";
const string MANAGED_OBJECT_INSTANCE = \"e\";
};
/*
It defines the notification categories.
A notification category is identified by the IRP name and its version number.
*/
typedef ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumberSet NotificationCategorySet;
/*
NotificationCategorySetOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present.
Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union NotificationCategorySetOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: NotificationCategorySet value;
};
/*
It defines the notification types of a particular notification category.
*/
typedef sequence \ NotificationTypePerNotificationCategory;
/*
This sequence identifies all notification types of all notification
categories identified by NotificationCategorySet. The number of elements
in this sequence shall be identical to that of NotificationCategorySet.
*/
typedef sequence \
NotificationTypesSet;
/*
NotificationTypesSetOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present.
Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union NotificationTypesSetOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: NotificationTypesSet value;
};
/*
It defines a sequence of SubscriptionIds.
*/
typedef string SubscriptionId;
typedef sequence \ SubscriptionIdSet;
/*
SubscriptionIdOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present.
Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union SubscriptionIdOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: SubscriptionId value;
};
/*
This indicates if the subscription is Active (not suspended), Suspended,
or Invalid.
*/
enum SubscriptionState {ACTIVE, SUSPENDED, INVALID};
/*
SubscriptionStateOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present.
Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union SubscriptionStateOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: SubscriptionState value;
};
};
#endif // _NOTIFICATION_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
# A.4 IDL specification (file name \"NotificationIRPSystem.idl\")
//File: NotificationIRPSystem.idl
#ifndef _NOTIFICATION_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
#define _NOTIFICATION_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
#include \
#include \
#include \
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: NotificationIRPSystem
This module implements capabilities of Notification IRP.
================================================================
*/
module NotificationIRPSystem
{
/*
System fails to complete the operation. System can provide reason
to qualify the exception. The semantics carried in reason
is outside the scope of this IRP.
*/
exception GetNotificationIRPVersions { string reason; };
exception GetNotificationIRPOperationsProfile { string reason; };
exception GetNotificationIRPNotificationProfile { string reason; };
exception Attach { string reason; };
exception DetachException { string reason; };
exception GetSubscriptionStatus { string reason; };
exception ChangeSubscriptionFilter { string reason; };
exception GetNotificationCategories { string reason; };
exception GetSubscriptionIds { string reason; };
exception AlreadySubscribed {};
exception AtLeastOneNotificationCategoryNotSupported {};
interface NotificationIRP
{
/*
Return the list of all supported Notification IRP versions
Each IRPVersion is defined by the rule in TS 32.311 clause titled
\"IRP document version number string\"
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumberSet get_notification_irp_versions
(
)
raises (GetNotificationIRPVersions);
/*
Return the list of all supported operations and their supported
parameters for a specific Notification IRP version.
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::MethodList
get_notification_irp_operations_profile (
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumber
notification_irp_version
)
raises (GetNotificationIRPOperationsProfile,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
/*
Return the list of all supported notifications.
Agent should always throw a ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported
exception.
Similar method, such as get_alarm_IRP_notification_profile,
is supported in other IRP versions such as Alarm IRP.
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::MethodList
get_notification_irp_notification_profile (
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumber
notification_irp_version
)
raises (GetNotificationIRPNotificationProfile,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
/*
Obtain the list of all supported notification categories.
*/
NotificationIRPConstDefs::NotificationCategorySet
get_notification_categories (
out NotificationIRPConstDefs::NotificationTypesSetOpt
notification_type_list
)
raises (GetNotificationCategories,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported);
NotificationIRPConstDefs::SubscriptionId attach_push (
in string manager_reference,
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::UnsignedLongOpt time_tick,
in NotificationIRPConstDefs::NotificationCategorySetOpt
notification_categories,
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::StringOpt filter
)
raises (Attach, ManagedGenericIRPSystem::ParameterNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter, AlreadySubscribed,
AtLeastOneNotificationCategoryNotSupported);
NotificationIRPConstDefs::SubscriptionId attach_push_b (
in string manager_reference,
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::UnsignedLongOpt time_tick,
in NotificationIRPConstDefs::NotificationCategorySetOpt
notification_categories,
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::StringOpt filter,
out CosNotifyChannelAdmin::SequenceProxyPushSupplier system_reference
)
raises (Attach, ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::ParameterNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter,
AlreadySubscribed, AtLeastOneNotificationCategoryNotSupported);
NotificationIRPConstDefs::SubscriptionId attach_pull (
in string manager_reference,
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::UnsignedLongOpt time_tick,
in NotificationIRPConstDefs::NotificationCategorySetOpt
notification_categories,
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::StringOpt filter,
out CosNotifyChannelAdmin::SequenceProxyPullSupplier system_reference
)
raises (Attach, ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::ParameterNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter,
AlreadySubscribed, AtLeastOneNotificationCategoryNotSupported);
/*
Replace the present filter constraint with the one provided.
*/
void change_subscription_filter (
in NotificationIRPConstDefs::SubscriptionId subscription_id,
in string filter
)
raises (ChangeSubscriptionFilter,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
/*
Check the current state of the subscription.
*/
NotificationIRPConstDefs::NotificationCategorySet get_subscription_status
(
in NotificationIRPConstDefs::SubscriptionId subscription_id,
out ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::StringOpt filter_in_effect,
out NotificationIRPConstDefs::SubscriptionStateOpt subscription_state,
out ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::UnsignedLongOpt time_tick
)
raises (GetSubscriptionStatus,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
NotificationIRPConstDefs::SubscriptionIdSet get_subscription_ids (
in string manager_reference
)
raises (GetSubscriptionIds,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
/*
Terminates the subscription with the agent.
*/
void detach (
in string manager_reference,
in NotificationIRPConstDefs::SubscriptionIdOpt subscription_id
)
raises (DetachException,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::ParameterNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
};
};
#endif // _NOTIFICATION_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
# A.5 IDL specification (file name \"NotificationIRPNotifications.idl\")
//File: NotificationIRPNotifications.idl
#ifndef _NOTIFICATION_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#define _NOTIFICATION_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#include \
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
module NotificationIRPNotifications
{
interface Notify
{
/**
Notification IRP IS defines 6 attributes for the notification header.
They are: objectClass, objectInstance, notificationId, eventTime,
systemDN and notificationType.
The first 2 attributes are mapped into 1 name-value pair. The name of
the mapped IDL construct is MANAGED_OBJECT_INSTANCE. The const
string of this mapped IDL construct is defined here.
The notificationId, eventTime and systemDN are respectively mapped
into 3 name-value pairs. The const string(s) of these 3 mapped IDL
constructs are defined here.
The notificationType is not mapped into any name-value pair
but is mapped into the type_name position-dependent
field of the CORBA structured-event. There is no need for a const string
definition for it.
*/
const string MANAGED_OBJECT_INSTANCE =
NotificationIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::MANAGED_OBJECT_INSTANCE;
const string NOTIFICATION_ID =
NotificationIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::NOTIFICATION_ID;
const string EVENT_TIME =
NotificationIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::EVENT_TIME;
const string SYSTEM_DN =
NotificationIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::SYSTEM_DN;
};
/**
Type to which OMG CosNotification::StructuredEvent remainder_of_body any is to
be mapped
*/
struct NonFilterableEventBody {
CosNotification::PropertySeq name_value_pairs;
any remainder_of_non_filterable_body;
};
};
#endif // _NOTIFICATION_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#