# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and
they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations
Systems (OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimisation programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G
network, or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
resources/objects in one or several NEs.
**Background**
Traditionally, multiple name conventions have been used by different vendors\'
NEs, or even within the same vendor, to name network resources. The following
problems have thus arisen:
  * Different classes of NE have used different name conventions. > Network Management applications, when interfacing with these NEs, > have been required to understand multiple name conventions to > manage the NEs.
  * Network management applications (e.g. Fault Management application), > when interfacing with other applications (e.g. Configuration > Management application, trouble ticket system) have been required > to understand multiple name conventions.
  * When a customer purchased multiple classes of NEs from the same or > different vendors, the customer was confronted with multiple name > conventions.
  * Without a name convention, it is difficult to integrate IRP > conformant vendors\' resource name space (see subclause 3.1.5 for > definition of name space) into the customer\'s Enterprise name > space.
**Benefits**
The benefits of using the subject name convention to name 3G network resources
for network management purposes are as follows:
  * A resource name is guaranteed to be unambiguous in that it refers > to, at most, one network resource. Unambiguous naming of managed > network resources is necessary for interoperability among managing > applications and systems.
  * The resource name syntax is specified such that management > applications can be designed with assurance that its name-parsing > algorithm needs not be modified in the future. We can derive this > benefit only if the subject name convention is widely accepted.
The root and upper portions of the name hierarchy are based on name
infrastructure of Domain Name System (DNS) (see IETF RFC 2247 [5]). The
subject name convention can naturally fit in DNS and can integrate well with
other hierarchical naming systems, such as ITU-T Recommendation X.500 [2].
# 1 Scope
A more detailed background and introduction of the IRP concept is given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [11] and TS 32.102 [12].
To perform network management tasks, co-operating applications require
identical interpretation of names assigned to network resources under
management. Such names are required to be unambiguous as well. The present
document recommends one name convention for network resources under management
in the IRP context.
To facilitate integration of network management information obtained via
multiple IRPs based on different IRP Solution Set technologies, identical
network resource name semantics shall be conveyed in all IRPs. The present
document specifies one such name convention.
The present document also specifies an IOC/MOC name recommendation (see annex
E) in order to avoid potential problems with valid characters in some
programming languages.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] Void.
[2] ITU-T Recommendation X.500 (1993): \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - The Directory: Overview of concepts, models and services\".
[3] T. Howes, ISBN 1-57870-070-1: \"Understanding and Deploying LDAP Directory
Services\".
[4] IETF RFC 1737 (1994): \"Functional Requirements for Uniform Resource
Names\".
[5] IETF RFC 2247 (1998): \"Using Domains in LDAP/X.500 Distinguished Names\".
[6] IETF RFC 1035 (1987): \"Domain names - implementation and specification\".
[7] IETF RFC 2253 (1997): \"Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (v3): UTF-8
String Representation of Distinguished Names\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.622: \" Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[10] Void.
[11] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[13] ISO/IEC 14977: \"Information technology -- Syntactic metalanguage \--
Extended BNF\".
[14] ISO/IEC 646: \"Information technology -- ISO 7-bit coded character set
for information interchange\".
[15] ISO/IEC 10646: \"Information technology -- Universal multiple-octet Coded
Character Set (UCS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [11] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [12] apply. This subclause defines
terms essential for understanding of name convention in the IRP context.
### 3.1.1 IRPAgent
See 3GPP TS 32.102 [12].
### 3.1.2 IRPManager
See 3GPP TS 32.102 [12].
### 3.1.3 Managed Object and Network Resource
In the context of the present document, a Managed Object (MO) is a software
object that encapsulates the manageable characteristics and behaviour of a
particular network resource. Examples of network resource are switch, scanner
for monitoring performance data, cell, site, transmission links, satellite,
operator profile, etc. In the present document, MO sometimes is referred to as
MO instance.
### 3.1.4 Name
In the context of the present document, a name is restricted to the
identification of a MO, that is, a software object representing a real network
resource.
### 3.1.5 Name space
A name space is a collection of names. This name convention uses a
hierarchical containment structure, including its simplest form - the one-
level, flat name space. This name convention does not support an arbitrarily
connected name space, or graph structure, in which a named object can be both
child and parent of another named object.\ Figure 1 shows some examples of
supported and unsupported name spaces (this figure is from T. Howes, ISBN
1‑57870-070-1 [3] and it provides useful information on name space design).
Figure 1: Examples of supported and unsupported name spaces
### 3.1.6 Global Root and Local Root
Names in name space are organised in hierarchy. An MO instance that contains
another one is referred to as the superior (parent), whereas the contained MO
instance is referred to as the subordinate (child).
In modern network management, it is expected that the Enterprise name space be
partitioned for implementations in multiple managed system (see annex C for
reasons of name space partitioning). The parent of all MO instances in a
single managed system is called the Local Root. The ultimate parent of all MO
instances of all managed systems is called the Global Root.
### 3.1.7 Distinguished Name and Relative Distinguished Name
A Distinguished Name (DN) is used to uniquely identify a MO within a name
space. A DN is built from a series of \"name components\", referred to as
Relative Distinguished Names (RDNs). ITU-T Recommendation X.500 [2] defines
the concepts of DN and RDN in detail, using ASN.1, in the following way:
DistinguishedName ::= RDNSequence\ RDNSequence ::= SEQUENCE OF
RelativeDistinguishedName\ RelativeDistinguishedName ::= SET SIZE (1..MAX) OF
AttributeTypeAndValue\ AttributeTypeAndValue ::= SEQUENCE {type AttributeType,
value AttributeValue}
The present document references this ASN.1 structure but it only uses single-
valued (not multi-valued) RDN.
From a DN of a MO, one can derive the DN of its containing MO, if any. This
containment relation is the only relation carried by the DN. No other relation
can be carried or implied by the DN.
See annex B for a rule for MO designers to avoid ambiguity concerning the
AttributeType of a DN string.
See annex C for discussion of DN prefix.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ASN.1 Abstract Syntax Notation One
BER Basic Encoding Rules
CM Configuration Management
DC Domain Component
DN Distinguished Name
DNS Domain Name Service
EBNF Extended Backus-Naur Form
FM Fault Management
IETF Internet Engineering Task Force
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
LDN Local Distinguished Name
MO Managed Object
MOC Managed Object Class
MOI Managed Object Instance
NE Network Element
NR Network Resource
NRM Network Resource Model
PM Performance Management
QoS Quality of Service
RDN Relative Distinguished Name
SS Solution Set
TMN Telecommunications Management Network
# 4 System overview
## 4.1 System context
Situations under which MO (representing network resource) names are used are
as follows:
a) MO names cross various Integration Reference Points (IRPs).
EXAMPLE 1: In the context of Alarm IRP 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [8], IRPAgent notifies
IRPManager of the alarm condition of a network resource. The DN of the MO,
representing alarmed network resource, encoded as specified in the present
document, is carried in the Managed Object Instance parameter of the
notification.
EXAMPLE 2: In the context of Generic Network Resources IRP: NRM, 3GPP TS
32.622 [9], IRPAgent notifies IRPManager of the creation of new object. The DN
of the newly created object, encoded as specified in the present document, is
carried in the notification.
EXAMPLE 3: In the context of Generic Network Resources IRP: NRM, 3GPP TS
32.622 [9], IRPManager requests IRPAgent to search for a particular object by
specifying the start point of the search. The DN of the base object, upon
which the search begins downward hierarchically, is carried in the request.
b) Co-operating management applications need to exchange information that
includes MO (representing network resource) names.
EXAMPLE 4: A Fault Management (FM) application may request a trouble ticket
system to open a new trouble ticket reporting the alarmed condition of a
network resource by specifying, among other things, the MO name representing
the alarmed network resource. The DN of the MO, encoded as specified in the
present document, is included in the request.
EXAMPLE 5: A Performance Management (PM) system that produces reports on
performance of network resources. The DNs of the MOs, representing the
reported network resources, encoded as specified in the present document, are
printed on the report.
# 5 Name Convention for Managed Objects
Network resources shall be named using the naming conventions in ITU-T
Recommendation X.500 [2] with one restriction listed below. Central to the
X.500 naming convention is the concept of the Distinguished Name (DN) (see
subclause 3.1.7).
The restriction is that in this IRP naming conventions do not support multi-
valued RDN. Only single-value RDN are supported..
# 6 Representations of Distinguished Name (DN)
A DN can be encoded and represented in many ways. The present document
specifies one representation. Future work on IRP specifications may require
the definition(s) of other representation(s)..
The DN is encoded using the string representation.
The DN string representation encoding scheme:
\- shall be used for DNs exchanged through all IRP SS technologies,
\- is in itself IRP SS technology neutral, and
\- is subject to IRP SS technology specific handling, such as escaping, if
required by such a technology.
# 7 String Representation of DN
## 7.A Overview
This clause specifies the string representation of DN. This work is based on
IETF RFC 2253 [7]. A DN string representation, using the string-encoding
scheme specified in the present document, is also a valid DN string according
to IETF RFC 2253 [7].
The string-encoding scheme specified in the present document imposes further
restrictions as compared to IETF RFC 2253 [7]. The most important restrictions
are:
  * Multi-valued RDN is not supported in the subject name convention.
  * Character asterisk is used to denote wildcard in the subject name > convention.
## 7.B Allowed character sets
Subject to further restrictions described in the following subclauses, the
allowed characters for the string representation of DN are:
\- Characters of ISO/IEC 646 [14] International Reference Version (IRV) coded
character set, and
\- Characters of standard coded character sets supporting and extending
ISO/IEC 646 [14] IRV coded character set, e.g. ISO/IEC 10646 [15] coded
character set.
NOTE 1: ISO/IEC 646 [14] IRV coded character set is the international
equivalent to the ANSI X3.4 ASCII coded character set.
NOTE 2: The character set of ISO/IEC 646 [14] IRV corresponds to the subset of
characters that range from U+0000 to U+007F in the character set of ISO/IEC
10646 [15].
NOTE 3: The ISO/IEC 646 [14] IRV characters specifically referenced in this
specification are further identified using ISO/IEC 10646 [15] character short
identifier notation form \"U+XXXX\".
## 7.1 Converting DN from ASN.1 to a String
The following subclauses define the algorithm for converting from an ASN.1
structured representation to string representation.
### 7.1.1 Converting RDNSequence
If the RDNSequence is an empty sequence, the result is the empty or zero
length string.
Otherwise, the output consists of the string encoding of each RDN in the
RDNSequence (according to subclause 7.1.2), starting with the first element of
the sequence and moving forward toward the last element.
The encoding of adjacent RDNs are separated by a comma character (\',\',
U+002C), to be consistent with IETF RFC 2253 [7].
White spaces adjacent to the comma character shall be ignored.
### 7.1.2 Converting RelativeDistinguishedName
When converting from an ASN.1 RDN to a string, the output consists of the
string encoding of the singleton AttributeTypeAndValue (according to subclause
7.1.1).
Although ITU-T Recommendation X.500 DN supports multi-valued RDN, this
specification supports single-valued RDN only.
### 7.1.3 Converting AttributeTypeAndValue
The AttributeTypeAndValue is encoded as the string representation of the
AttributeType, followed by an equals sign character (\'=\', U+003D), followed
by the string representation of the AttributeValue.
Although ITU-T Recommendation X.500 ASN.1 AttributeValue and AttributeType
support wide range of character representation, this specification supports a
restrictive set of characters according to subclause 7.2.
String representation of AttributeValue allows character escape mechanism such
as the use of a reverse solidus character (\'\\\', U+005C) followed by two
hexadecimal digits to replace a character in a string. String representation
of AttributeType does not allow character escape mechanism.
EXAMPLE: \"CN=Before\0DAfter,O=Test,C=GB\". In this example, the reverse
solidus character and the two hexadecimal digits form a single byte in the
code of the escaped character. The reverse solidus character followed by
\"0D\" indicates a carriage return character. See annex B for a rule for MO
designers to avoid ambiguity concerning the AttributeType of a DN string.
## 7.2 Character syntax
This subclause specifies the character syntax for AttributeType and
AttributeValue.
They are:
1\. Any character except:
\- comma character (\',\', U+002C),
\- equals sign character (\'=\', U+003D),
\- carriage return character (U+000D),
\- line feed character (U+000A),
\- plus sign character (\'+\', U+002B),
\- less-than sign character (\'\\', U+003E),
\- number sign character (\'#\', U+0023),
\- semicolon character (\';\', U+003B),
\- reverse solidus character (\'\\\', U+005C),
\- quotation mark character (\'\"\', U+0022).
2\. The full stop character (\'.\', U+002E). This character shall be used in
the AttributeValue whose AttributeType is \"DC\". An example is
\"DC=marketing.CompanyXYZ.com\". This full stop character shall not be used in
AttributeType.
3\. The asterisk character (\'*\', U+002A) is reserved to denote wildcard.
Wildcard character(s) can appear in AttributeType and AttributeValue. The
wildcard character can be used to represent one or more characters.
## 7.3 EBNF of DN String Representation
The formal definitions provided within this subclause consolidate several
rules and concepts (null distinguished name, DN prefix, local DN, domain
component type, class names starting with upper case characters, attribute
names starting with lower case characters, classes with or without an \"Id\"
naming attribute, attribute type and attribute value allowed characters,
wildcard character). The definition is more detailed to clarify these naming
rules, and will not introduce compliancy issues for implementations compliant
with Rel-5 version of this specification.
The following is the EBNF for DN in string representation (Extended Backus-
Naur Form; see ISO/IEC 14977 [13] for more information):
DistinguishedName = NullDN (* Distinguished Names shall not exceed *)\ \|
RegularDN ; (* 400 octets as specified in section 7.4 *)
NullDN = ; (* empty string; null DN is specified in subclause 7.1.1 *)
RegularDN = DNPrefixPlusRDNSeparator (* DN prefix and local DN *)\ , LocalDN ;
(* are defined in annex C *)
DNPrefixPlusRDNSeparator = ( NullDNPrefix , NullRDNSeparator )\ \| (
DNPrefixWithDomainComponent , RDNSeparator )\ \| (
DNPrefixWithoutDomainComponent , RDNSeparator ) ;
NullDNPrefix = ; (* empty string *)
NullRDNSeparator = ; (* empty string *)
DNPrefixWithDomainComponent = DomainComponentRDN\ , { RDNSeparator ,
DomainComponentRDN }\ , { RDNSeparator , RegularRDN } ;
DNPrefixWithoutDomainComponent = RegularRDN\ , { RDNSeparator , RegularRDN } ;
LocalDN = LocalRDN\ , { RDNSeparator , LocalRDN } ;
RDNSeparator = [ RDNSeparatorWhiteSpace ] (* use of optional white space *)\ ,
CommaChar (* is recommended to be avoided *)\ , [ RDNSeparatorWhiteSpace ] ;
RDNSeparatorWhiteSpace = [ CarriageReturnChar ]\ , { SpaceChar } ;
DomainComponentRDN = DCAttributeTypeAndValue ;
RegularRDN = RegularAttributeTypeAndValue ;
LocalRDN = LocalDNAttributeTypeAndValue ;
DCAttributeTypeAndValue = DCAttributeType\ , AttributeTypeAndValueSeparator\ ,
( DCAttributeValue \| WildcardDCAttributeValue ) ;
RegularAttributeTypeAndValue = ( RegularAttributeType \|
WildcardRegularAttributeType )\ , AttributeTypeAndValueSeparator\ , (
RegularAttributeValue \| WildcardRegularAttributeValue ) ;
LocalDNAttributeTypeAndValue = ( LocalDNAttributeType \|
WildcardLocalDNAttributeType )\ , AttributeTypeAndValueSeparator\ , (
RegularAttributeValue \| WildcardRegularAttributeValue ) ;
AttributeTypeAndValueSeparator = EqualsSignChar ;
DCAttributeType = \"DC\" ; (* ISO/IEC 646 IRV U+0044/0043 Latin capital
letters D&C *)
DCAttributeValue = DCLabel (* this is specified *)\ , { DCLabelSeparator ,
DCLabel } ; (* in IETF RFC 1035 *)
WildcardDCAttributeValue = ( ( DCLabel \| WildcardDCLabel )\ , {
DCLabelSeparator , ( DCLabel \| WildcardDCLabel ) } )\ \- DCAttributeValue ;
DCLabelSeparator = FullStopChar ; (* this is specified in IETF RFC 1035 *)
DCLabel = LetterChar (* this is specified *)\ , [ { LetterDigitHypenMinusChar
} (* in IETF RFC 1035 *)\ , LetterDigitChar ] ;
WildcardDCLabel = ( ( LetterChar \| WildcardChar )\ , [ {
LetterDigitHypenMinusChar \| WildcardChar }\ , ( LetterDigitChar \|
WildcardChar ) ] )\ \- DCLabel ;
RegularAttributeType = LetterChar (* this is specified *)\ , {
LetterDigitHypenMinusChar } ; (* in IETF RFC 2253 *)
WildcardRegularAttributeType = ( ( LetterChar \| WildcardChar )\ , {
LetterDigitHypenMinusChar \| WildcardChar } )\ \- RegularAttributeType ;
LocalDNAttributeType = NameOfClassWithIdAttribute (* definition selected shall
*)\ \| NamesOfClassAndNamingAttribute ; (* be in accordance with the *)\ (*
rules defined in annex B *)
WildcardLocalDNAttributeType = WildcardNameOfClassWithIdAttr\ \|
WildcardNamesOfClassAndNamAttr ;
NameOfClassWithIdAttribute = ClassName ; (* see rules defined in annex B *)
WildcardNameOfClassWithIdAttr = WildcardClassName ;
NamesOfClassAndNamingAttribute = ClassName (* see rules defined in annex B *)\
, ClassNamingAttributeSeparator\ , NamingAttributeName ;
WildcardNamesOfClassAndNamAttr = ( ( ClassName \| WildcardClassName )\ ,
ClassNamingAttributeSeparator\ , ( NamingAttributeName \|
WildcardNamingAttributeName ) )\ \- NamesOfClassAndNamingAttribute ;
ClassNamingAttributeSeparator = FullStopChar ; (* see rules defined in annex B
*)
ClassName = CapitalLetterChar (* see recommendation on *)\ , {
LocalDNAttributeTypeChar } ; (* characters for class names *)\ (* in annex E
WildcardClassName = ( ( CapitalLetterChar \| WildcardChar )\ , {
LocalDNAttributeTypeChar \| WildcardChar } )\ \- ClassName ;
NamingAttributeName = SmallLetterChar\ , { LocalDNAttributeTypeChar } ;
WildcardNamingAttributeName = ( ( SmallLetterChar \| WildcardChar )\ , {
LocalDNAttributeTypeChar \| WildcardChar } )\ \- NamingAttributeName ;
RegularAttributeValue = ( AttributeValueChar -- SpaceChar ) (* this is *)\ , [
{ AttributeValueChar } (* specified in *)\ , ( AttributeValueChar -- SpaceChar
) ] ; (* IETF RFC 2253 *)
WildcardRegularAttributeValue = ( ( ( AttributeValueChar -- SpaceChar ) \|
WildcardChar )\ , [ { AttributeValueChar \| WildcardChar }\ , ( (
AttributeValueChar -- SpaceChar ) \| WildcardChar ) ] )\ \-
RegularAttributeValue ;
LocalDNAttributeTypeChar = DNChar -- FullStopChar ;
AttributeValueChar = DNChar \| EscapedCharSequence ;
WildcardChar = AsteriskChar ; (* this is specified in subclause 7.2 *)
DNChar = DNCharUnrestricted - ReservedChar ;
DNCharUnrestricted = ? Character of ISO/IEC 646 IRV ?\ \| ? Character of
standard coded character set\ supporting and extending ISO/IEC 646 IRV ? ;
EscapedCharSequence = ReverseSolidusChar (* this is specified *)\ , 2 *
HexadecimalDigitChar ; (* in subclause 7.1.3 *)
ReservedChar = Rfc2253ReservedChar \| CarriageReturnChar \| LineFeedChar\ \|
AsteriskChar ;
Rfc2253ReservedChar = CommaChar \| EqualsSignChar \| PlusSignChar \|
LessThanSignChar\ \| GreaterThanSignChar \| NumberSignChar \| SemiColonChar\
\| ReverseSolidusChar \| QuotationMarkChar ;
LetterChar = CapitalLetterChar \| SmallLetterChar ;
LetterDigitChar = LetterChar \| DigitChar ;
LetterDigitHypenMinusChar = LetterDigitChar \| HypenMinusChar ;
HexadecimalDigitChar = DigitChar \| CapitalLetterAtoFChar \|
SmallLetterAtoFChar ;
LineFeedChar = ? ISO/IEC 646 IRV U+000A character line feed ? ;
CarriageReturnChar = ? ISO/IEC 646 IRV U+000D character carriage return ? ;
SpaceChar = \' \' ; (* ISO/IEC 646 IRV U+0020 character space *)
QuotationMarkChar = \'\"\' ; (* ISO/IEC 646 IRV U+0022 character quotation
mark *)
NumberSignChar = \'#\' ; (* ISO/IEC 646 IRV U+0023 character number sign *)
AsteriskChar = \'*\' ; (* ISO/IEC 646 IRV U+002A character asterisk *)
PlusSignChar = \'+\' ; (* ISO/IEC 646 IRV U+002B character plus sign *)
CommaChar = \',\' ; (* ISO/IEC 646 IRV U+002C character comma *)
HypenMinusChar = \'-\' ; (* ISO/IEC 646 IRV U+002D character hyphen-minus *)
FullStopChar = \'.\' ; (* ISO/IEC 646 IRV U+002E character full stop *)
DigitChar = \'0\' \| \'1\' \| \'2\' \| \'3\' \| \'4\' (* ISO/IEC 646 IRV
U+0030-0039 *)\ \| \'5\' \| \'6\' \| \'7\' \| \'8\' \| \'9\' ; (* digits 0 to
9 *)
SemiColonChar = \';\' ; (* ISO/IEC 646 IRV U+003B character semicolon *)
LessThanSignChar = \'\\' ; (* ISO/IEC 646 IRV U+003E character greater-than
sign *)
CapitalLetterAtoFChar = \'A\' \| \'B\' \| \'C\' (* ISO/IEC 646 IRV U+0041-0046
*)\ \| \'D\' \| \'E\' \| \'F\' ; (* Latin capital letters A to F *)
CapitalLetterChar = CapitalLetterAtoFChar \| \'G\' \| \'H\' (* ISO/IEC 646 IRV
*)\ \| \'I\' \| \'J\' \| \'K\' \| \'L\' \| \'M\' \| \'N\' (* U+0041-005A *)\
\| \'O\' \| \'P\' \| \'Q\' \| \'R\' \| \'S\' \| \'T\' (* Latin capital *)\ \|
\'U\' \| \'V\' \| \'W\' \| \'X\' \| \'Y\' \| \'Z\' ; (* letters A to Z *)
ReverseSolidusChar = \'\\\' ; (* ISO/IEC 646 IRV U+005C character reverse
solidus *)
SmallLetterAtoFChar = \'a\' \| \'b\' \| \'c\' (* ISO/IEC 646 IRV U+0061-0066
*)\ \| \'d\' \| \'e\' \| \'f\' ; (* Latin small letters a to f *)
SmallLetterChar = SmallLetterAtoFChar \| \'g\' \| \'h\' (* ISO/IEC 646 IRV *)\
\| \'i\' \| \'j\' \| \'k\' \| \'l\' \| \'m\' \| \'n\' (* U+0061-007A *)\ \|
\'o\' \| \'p\' \| \'q\' \| \'r\' \| \'s\' \| \'t\' (* Latin small *)\ \| \'u\'
\| \'v\' \| \'w\' \| \'x\' \| \'y\' \| \'z\' ; (* letters a to z *)
## 7.4 Maximum size of DN string
The maximum length of a DN string, including RDN separators and including
white spaces, shall not exceed 400 bytes (8-bit).
# 8 Examples of DN in string representation
This subclause gives a few examples of DN written in the string representation
specified in the present document.
EXAMPLE 1: \"DC=com,DC=CompanyXYZ,DC=marketing,IRPAgent=ATMPVCBilling,
Log=19990101131000,AccountingRecord=100098\". In this example, the name space
aligns with DNS. The AttributeType of the top three RDN are \"DC\".
Concatenation of the corresponding AttributeValues produces the DNS registered
name, i.e. \"marketing.CompanyXYZ.com\". The top RDN is the Global Root
because DNS defines \"DC=com\" as the root of its name space. That top RDN is
the Local Root as well.
EXAMPLE 2: \"DC=marketing.CompanyXYZ.com,IRPAgent=ATMPVCBilling,
Log=19990101131000,AccountingRecord=100098\". In this example, the name space
aligns with DNS as well. Instead of using three RDNs to represent the DNS
registered name, this example chooses to use one RDN. The top RDN is the
Global Root (and Local Root as well).
EXAMPLE 3: \"IRPNetwork=ABCNetwork,Subnet=TN2,BSS=B5C0100\". In this example,
the name space designer chooses not to name its objects under the DNS nor
X.500 scheme. The name space designer chooses to use \"IRPNetwork=ABCNetwork\"
as the Local Root of its name space (by looking at the DN string, it is not
possible to say if the Local Root is the Global Root). DNs in this name space
will start with that string as their Local Root. One string (\"IRPNetwork\")
for AttributeType (of the AttributeTypeAndValue of the RDN) starts with
\"IRP\". This indicates that this string is mapped from the MO class names
specified in NRM of [9] or other domain specific NRMs (see the Introduction
clause). Other strings do not start with \"IRP\", indicating that those
strings are not mapped from MO class names specified in NRM of [9] or other
domain specific NRMs. They are probably mapped from MO classes that are
specific for a particular product and thus specified in a product-specific
NRM.
EXAMPLE 4: The following example illustrates the use of the comma character as
separator for RDNs. It also illustrates the use of space and full stop
characters as part of the legal character syntax for RDNs: \"CN=John T. Mills,
O=Cyber System Consulting\"
# 9 Usage Scenario
## 9.1 DN prefix usage
This subclause presents recommended steps designer uses to partition the
Enterprise name space while building an Alarm IRP compliant NE (the Alarm IRP
Agent).
1\. The NE designer specifies the NRM (e.g. 3GPP TS 32.622 [9]) for the NE.
Suppose the NRM is a two level hierarchy with 3 classes like:
> Node
>
> \|----- Port
>
> \|----- CrossConnect
2\. The NE designer, based on the NRM and other design choices, decides that
there are 7 instances within the NE that can report alarms, such as
> Port=1, Port=2, Port=3, Port=4, Port=5, CrossConnect=1, Node=1.
3\. The NE designer decides on the DN prefix (see annex C) and configures its
system accordingly. Since NE designer will not know the customer\'s name space
in advance, he would normally configure the DN prefix to reflect his test
environment. The DN prefix can be configured to \"Network=test\". The Global
Root is \"Network=test\". The Local Root is \"Node=1\". It should be noted
that the NE should not hard code the DN prefix but should treat DN prefix as a
system configuration parameter, settable.
EXAMPLE 1: At system start-up time.
4\. When constructing the alarm record (in coding phase), NE designer shall
concatenate the name of the alarmed instance with the DN prefix to form the DN
of his test environment. The resultant DN (e.g.
\"Network=test,Node=1,Port=3\") will be placed in the Managed Object Instance
(MOI) field of the alarm record.
5\. The NE is sold to a customer. The customer administrator knows his
Enterprise name space, the topology of his network and where the NE will be
deployed. Based on the information, he configures the DN prefix of the NE.
EXAMPLE 2: The customer administrator can configure it to:
\"DC=marketing.CompanyXYZ.com,Net=DS3BackBone,Station=TMR\"
The Global Root in this case is \"DC=marketing.CompanyXYZ.com\".
6\. At run time, whenever NE is reporting an alarm on Port=3 via the IRP, the
following string will be in the MOI field of the alarm record:
\"DC=marketing.CompanyXYZ.com,Net=DS3BackBone,Station=TMR,Node=1,Port=3\"
###### ## Annex A (normative): Mapping of RDN AttributeType to Strings
NOTE: This annex is normative for users of string representation.
AttributeType of RDN are mapped into strings for use in the DN string
representation. This annex specifies the mapping.
The AttributeType shall include all MO classes defined in the Network Resource
Model (NRM) of 3GPP TS 32.622 [9] and other domain specific NRMs as listed in
the Introduction clause.
There is one AttributeType that is not defined in NRM of 3GPP TS 32.622 [9] or
other domain specific NRMs as listed in the Introduction clause. This special
AttributeType is used to denote the domain component of the DNS. The following
partial DN string representations are examples to illustrate the valid use of
\"DC\" strings for the three DNS domain components of
\"marketing.CompanyXYZ.com\":
\- \"DC=com.CompanyXYZ.marketing,...\"
\- \"DC=com,DC=CompanyXYZ,DC=marketing,...\"
\- \"DC=com,DC=CompanyXYZ.marketing,...\"
\- \"DC=com.CompanyXYZ,DC=marketing,...\"
Table A.1: Example of RDN AttributeType Strings
* * *
String AttributeType DC Domain component of DNS SubNetwork MO class name
SubNetwork defined in NRM of 3GPP TS 32.622 [9]. etc. See note. NOTE: For each
MO class name found in 3GPP set of specifications, its corresponding
AttributeType String shall be identical to the class name with the leading
character capitalised.
* * *
###### ## Annex B (normative): Rule for MO Designers regarding AttributeType
interpretation
NOTE: This annex is normative for users of string representation.
This annex discusses the two possible interpretations for the AttributeType of
the DN string and establishes a rule for MO designers to avoid ambiguity
concerning their usage.\ It also gives a rule for designing MO classes such
that one DN string, regardless of the IRP SS technology used, will result in a
unique reference to the corresponding network resource.
**First interpretation**
ITU-T Recommendation X.500 [2] uses the AttributeType (defined for use as the
first component of the AttributeTypeAndValue of a RDN, see subclause 3.1.6) to
identify one attribute of the subject MO for naming purpose. This
AttributeType is called the _naming attribute_ to distinguish itself from
other attributes that may be present in the MO.
Suppose the following is the MO class definition in pseudo notation and this
MO class is inherited from root.
> Class Bsc {
>
> Attribute id;
>
> Attribute ..}
Suppose further that the naming attribute is id.
If this (first) interpretation is used for constructing the DN string, then
the DN will be \"...,id=123\". MO class name cannot be derived from the DN
string. The value of the AttributeValue contains the value of the naming
attribute.
**Second interpretation**
Generally, this interpretation shall be preferred to the first interpretation.
The AttributeType (defined for use as the first component of the
AttributeTypeAndValue of a RDN) is used to identify the MO class.Using this
interpretation for constructing the DN string the DN will be \"...,Bsc=123\".\
The name of the naming attribute cannot be derived from the DN string.\ The
value of the AttributeValue contains the value of the naming attribute.
**Rule**
Given the two interpretations, a DN reader cannot know how to interpret the
AttributeType, i.e. if the AttributeType identifies class or naming attribute.
To avoid ambiguity, the following rules shall apply:
  * If the IS name of the IOC naming attribute is not the concatenation > of the IS name of the IOC and \"Id\", ignoring case for both, then > the DN shall use \"...,Yyy.zzz=123,...\" where \"Yyy\" is the IS > name of the IOC and \"zzz\" is the IS name of the IOC naming > attribute, preserving case for both.
EXAMPLE 1: If \"Bsc\" is the IS name of the IOC and if the IS name of its
naming attribute is \"serialNumber\", then the DN shall be
\"...,Bsc.serialNumber=123,...\".
  * If the IS name of the IOC naming attribute is the concatenation of > the IS name of the IOC and \"Id\", ignoring case for both, then > the DN shall use \"...,Xxx=123,...\" where \"Xxx\" is the IS name > of the IOC, preserving case.
EXAMPLE 2: If \"Bsc\" is the IS name of the IOC and if the IS name of its
naming attribute is \"bscId\", then the DN shall be \"...,Bsc=123,...\".
###### ## Annex C (informative): DN Prefix and Local Distinguished Name (LDN)
A Distinguished Name (DN) is used to uniquely identify a MO within a name
space. A DN is built from a series of \"name components\", referred to as
Relative Distinguished Names (RDNs).
DNs within a name space are arranged in hierarchy similar to concepts of
naming files in UNIX file system. A file name, in the context of a local
subdirectory, contains the path (series of subdirectory names) of the file
starting from the local subdirectory. The same file, in the global context,
contains the path of the file starting from the root directory. Similar
concept applies to naming MOs. From a particular (local) context, the name of
a MO is the Local Distinguished Name (LDN). From a global context, the name of
the same MO is the DN. LDN is a proper subset of DN. In the context of a
particular local context, a DN prefix is defined such that all LDNs in that
particular context, if attached behind the DN prefix of that context, will
yield the DNs of the MOs.
The concepts of DN Prefix and LDN support the partitioning of large name space
into smaller ones for efficient name space implementation. DN design, the
subject of the present document, does not depend on these concepts. There
exist other concepts that support partitioning of large name space as well.
Although these concepts are independent from DN design, their use is wide
spread and this annex illustrates their use in partitioning large name space.
In modern network management, it is expected that the Enterprise name space be
partitioned for implementations in multiple hosts. The following are reasons
for the partitioning.
  * The Enterprise name space can be large (e.g. containing millions of > objects). Partition of a large name space facilitates name space > management.
EXAMPLE 1: It may be easier to manage two name spaces of 1 million objects
each than to manage one name space with two million objects.
  * Separate IRPAgents manage sub-set of the Enterprise name space > relevant to their own local environment.
EXAMPLE 2: One NE manages a name space (subset of the Enterprise name space)
containing names of its MOs representing its own network resources. Another NE
manages another sub-set, etc.
  * For reasons such as security, replication, back-up policy and > performance, sub-sets of the Enterprise name space are managed by > separate systems.
EXAMPLE 3: Operation and Marketing departments may want to manage their name
spaces using their respective management policies. Partitioning of Enterprise
name space according to departmental jurisdiction may facilitate deployment of
independent management policies.
Suppose the Enterprise name space is organized hierarchically and is
partitioned into 4 sub-sets as shown in figure C.1.
Figure C.1: Name space partitions
NS (name space)-A contains 5 objects. DN prefix is NULL. The Global Root and
Local Root of NS‑A is \"DC=com.CompanyXYZ.marketing\" (see the Note below). DN
of top object is \"DC=com.CompanyXYZ.marketing\". RDNs of the other four
objects are, from bottom left to bottom right, \"A=1\", \"A=7\", \"A=3\" and
\"A=9\". DNs of the same four objects are \"DC=com.CompanyXYZ.marketing,A=1\",
\"DC=com.CompanyXYZ.marketing,A=7\", \"DC=com.CompanyXYZ.marketing,A=3\" and
\"DC=com.CompanyXYZ.marketing,A=9\". The second and fourth objects are
reference objects to MOs in NS-B.
NS-B contains two branches. They have the same DN prefix that is
\"DC=com.CompanyXYZ.marketing\". The Global Root is
\"DC=com.CompanyXYZ.marketing\".
The Local Root and RDN of top object of the right branch is \"A=9\". Its DN is
\"DC=com.CompanyXYZ.marketing,A=9\". RDNs of other objects are shown in figure
C.1.\ DN of the bottom object is
\"DC=com.CompanyXYZ.marketing,A=9,F=1,G=1,H=2\". This object refers to object
of another name space called NS‑D.
The Local Root and RDN of the top object of the left branch is \"A=7\". Its DN
is \"DC=com.CompanyXYZ.marketing,A=7\". RDNs of other objects are shown in
figure C.1.\ DN of the bottom object is
\"DC=com.CompanyXYZ.marketing,A=7,X=1,Y=1\". This object refers to object of
another name space called NS-C.
NS-C contains a branch of 4 objects. Its DN prefix is
\"DC=com.CompanyXYZ.marketing,A=7,X=1\". The Local Root an RDN of the top
object is \"Y=1\".
NS‑D contains a branch of 5 objects. Its DN prefix is
\"DC=com.CompanyXYZ.marketing,A=9,F=1,G=1\". The Local Root and RDN of the top
object is \"H=2\".
In figure C.1, the bottom object of NS‑B right branch has the following names:
\- DN is \"DC=com.CompanyXYZ.marketing,A=9,F=1,G=1,H=2\".
\- LDN is \"A=9,F=1,G=1,H=2\".
\- RDN is \"H=2\".
With this example, we can see that DN of an object is a series of RDNs
spanning the global name space. LDN of an object is a series of RDNs spanning
the local name space where the subject MO resides.
The concatenation of the LDN with DN prefix of that (partitioned) name space
shall produce the DN of the global name space.
NOTE: Use of \"DC\" in \"DC=com.CompanyXYZ.marketing\" is an attempt to align
the RDN with DNS name associated with the named organisation. The \"DC\"
stands for Domain Component and is an attribute name defined by IETF for use
in directory work. Annex A specifies other valid ways to align RDN with DNS as
well. Equally valid, the example can choose to align the RDN with the X.500
convention. In such case, the subject string can be
\"O=com,O=CompanyXYZ,OU=marketing\" where O and OU are X.500 standard
attributes denoting organisation and organization unit respectively. The
alignment choice belongs to the name space designer of each operator. The
choice will be reflected in the value of the DN prefix, probably a product
configuration parameter. See clause 7 for more information.
###### ## Annex D (informative): Interpreting EBNF [13]
This annex provides a very simplified summary of EBNF, and does not modify in
any way the reference text in ISO/IEC 14977: \"Information technology --
Syntactic metalanguage -- Extended BNF\" [13].
ISO/IEC 14977 [13] specification also provides far greater coverage supported
by numerous examples which are not included within this annex.
The EBNF metalanguage is useful for defining rigorous syntax notations and is
a notation for defining syntax rules.
The language uses sequences of formal definitions.
Definitions may have several layers of definition. The definitions which are
refined are termed as \"non terminal symbols\".
A term which cannot be defined at a lower level of detail is known as a
\"terminal symbol\". I.e. the \"terminal symbols\" cannot be further
decomposed.
The language permits sentences to be constructed.
The sentences consist of a non terminal, or a terminal symbol, followed by an
equality symbol, followed by a formal definition of the symbol.
Each sentence terminates with the semicolon \';\' terminal symbol.
Ideally the definitions are read from the top across to the right hand side of
the page and downwards.
A definition commences with an identifier (of the thing being defined)
followed by an equality sign.
The thing is defined by the symbols and identifiers to the right hand side of
the equality symbol, up to the next semicolon \';\'.
There is a natural breaking down of definitions, by other definitions until a
point is reached that a terminal symbol is reached -- which cannot be further
defined (e.g. the leaves of definition hierarchy).
There are terminal symbols which permit optional choice, sequence, exclusion,
comments to be included in the sentence.
The set of terminal symbols as defined in table 1 of ISO/IEC 14977 [13] are
below.
The normal character representing each operator of Extended BNF and its
implied precedence is (highest precedence at the top):
\'*\' repetition-symbol
\'-\' except-symbol
\',\' concatenate-symbol
\'\|\' definition-separator-symbol
\'=\' defining-symbol
\';\' terminator-symbol
The normal precedence is over-ridden by the following pairs of terminal
symbols:
\"\'\" first-quote-symbol first-quote-symbol \"\'\"
\'\"\' second-quote-symbol second-quote-symbol \'\"\'
\"(*\" start-comment-symbol end-comment-symbol \"*)\"
\'(\' start-group-symbol end-group-symbol \')\'
\'[\' start-option-symbol end-option-symbol \']\'
\'{\' start-repeat-symbol end-repeat-symbol \'}\'
\'?\' special-sequence-symbol special-sequence-symbol \'?\'
Examples:
letter = \"A\" \| \"B\" \| \"C\" \| \"D\" \| \"E\" \| \"F\" \| \"G\" \| \"H\"
\| \"I\" \| \"J\" \| \"K\" \| \"L\"\ \| \"M\" \| \"N\" \| \"O\" \| \"P\" \|
\"Q\" \| \"R\" \| \"S\" \| \"U\" \| \"V\" \| \"W\" \| \"X\" \| \"Y\" \| \"Z\"
;
vowel = \"A\" \| \"E\" \| \"I\" \| \"O\" \| \"U\" ; (* a subset of letters *)
consonant = letter -- vowel ; (* the set of letters except vowels *)
###### ## Annex E (informative): IOC/MOC name recommendation
**Recommendation:**
3GPP considers the use of many non-alphanumeric characters as valid characters
for constructing the IOC names.\ The Java programming language considers the
use of alphanumeric characters plus only two non-alphanumeric characters, i.e.
\"\$\" and \"_\", as valid characters for Java Packages and Java Class names.
Because the names of the Java Packages and Java Classes generated by Java
programming tools for SS implementation may include MO Class names, a Java
environment would have to include a translation mechanism that replaces the
invalid characters (if they are used in the IS specification to name an IOC,
that is mapped to the same MOC name in a Solution Set) by valid characters.
For example, replace \"-\" by \"_\". This translation mechanism causes
unwanted complexity and reduction in performance of the implementation. Given
Java may become popular for coding IRPManager and/or IRPAgent capabilities,
this note recommends the specification authors to use valid Java name
characters (i.e. all alphanumeric characters plus \"\$\" and \"_\") to name
their IS IOCs and SS MOCs.
#