# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; Test management Integration Reference
Point (IRP), as identified below:
32.321: \"Test management Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements\"
**32.322: \"Test management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information
Service (IS)\"**
32.323: \"Test management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object
Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\"
32.325: \"Test management Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup
Language (XML) definitions\"
A 3G telecommunication network is composed of a multitude of different Network
Elements (NE). For a successful operation of the network the operator must be
provided with mechanisms allowing him to manage the network. These management
activities can be grouped into several areas: configuration management, fault
management, performance management, accounting management and security
management.
A management function assisting in different high level management areas such
as fault management and performance management is test management. The purpose
of testing is to get information about the functionality and performance of
the 3G managed network subject to the test.
The present document is part of a TS-family defining the Telecommunication
Management (TM) of 3G systems.\ The TM principles are described in 3GPP TS
32.101 [5]. The TM architecture is described in 3GPP TS 32.102 [6].\ The other
specifications define the interface (Itf-N) between the managing system
(manager), which is in general the Network Manager (NM) and the managed system
(agent), which is either an Element Manager (EM) or the managed NE itself. The
Itf-N is composed of a number of integration reference points (IRPs) defining
the information in the agent that is visible for the manager, the operations
that the manager may perform on this information and the notifications that
are sent from the agent to the manager. One of these IRPs is the Test
Management IRP.
Each IRP is specified by the requirements part, the IS part and at least one
SS (e.g. CORBA SS).
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the IS part of the Test Management IRP, which
describes the semantics of the information and the interactions visible across
Itf-N in a protocol independent way. The information is specified by means of
information object classes and the interactions by means of operations and
notifications. The present document does not specify the syntax (encoding) of
the information.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Information Service (IS)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[4] ITU-T Recommendation X.733: \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Systems Management: Alarm reporting function\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation X.745: \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Systems Management: Test management function\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.321: \"Telecommunication management; Test management
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.672: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); State Management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation X.737: \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Systems Management: Confidence and diagnostic test
categories.
[11] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[12] IETF RFC4656: \"A One-way Active Measurement Protocol (OWAMP)\".
[13] IETF RFC 5357: \"A Two-way Active Measurement Protocol (TWAMP)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [6], 3GPP TS 32.102 [7] and 3GPP TS 32.321 [8] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
EM Element Manager
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
ME Element Manager
MORT Managed Object Referring to Test
NE Network Element
TM Telecommunication Management
TO Tester Object
VSE Vendor-Specific-Extended
VSE TO Vendor-Specific-Extended Tester Object
# 4 System Overview
## 4.1 System Context
The general definition of the System Context for the present IRP is found in
3GPP TS 32.150 [11] subclause 4.7.
In addition, the set of related IRP(s) relevant to the present IRP is shown in
the two diagrams below.
Figure 1: System Context A
Figure 2: System Context B
# 5 Information Object Classes (IOCs)
## 5.1 Information Entities imported and local Labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.622 [3], information object class, Top
Top 3GPP TS 32.622 [3], information object class, IRPAgent IRPAgent 3GPP TS
32.312 [2], information object class, managedGenericIRP managedGenericIRP
* * *
## 5.2 Class Diagram
### 5.2.1 Attributes and Relationships
The following figure shows, for the Test Management IRP, the class definitions
and the relationships between the classes.
From the cardinalities can be seen that each instance of _TestManagementIRP_
may have several instances of _TestActionPerformer_. Each instance of
_TestActionPerformer_ can have multiple instances of associated
_TesterObjects_. Each instance of _TesterObject_ in turn has one instance of
_TestInvocation_. For the resource self test, each instance of TesterObject
has one instance of MORT. For the connection and loopback test, each instance
of TesterObject has two instances of MORT.
### 5.2.2 Inheritance
The following figure depicts the inheritance relationships between the
information object classes.
## 5.3 Information Object Classes (IOCs) definition
### 5.3.1 Information Object Class _TestManagementIRP_
#### 5.3.1.1 Definition
The IOC _TestManagementIRP_ together with the IOC _TestActionPerformer_
represent the test management capabilities defined by this specification. To
conduct a test of network resources, this object may require capabilities of
other objects such as _TesterObject_. The IOC _TestManagementIRP_ inherits
from the IOC _ManagedGenericIRP_ specified in 3GPP TS 32.312 [2].
#### 5.3.1.2 Attributes
The IOC _TestManagementIRP_ has no own attributes, only those inherited from
the IOC _ManagedGenericIRP_.
### 5.3.2 Information Object Class _TestActionPerformer_
#### 5.3.2.1 Definition
The IOC _TestActionPerformer_ provides the ability to receive and react upon
test requests. This class must also be able to instantiate and delete tester
objects or, in case the tester objects are permanently instantiated, to
allocate and reserve them for their usage. This specification does not require
this IOC to be instantiated. It may be abstract and used for inheritance
purposes only. In this way the ability to receive and react upon test requests
may be included in any other IOC.
#### 5.3.2.2 Attributes
+-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Visibility | Support | Read | Write | | name | | Qualifier | Qualifier | Qualifier | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | support | + | M | M | _-_ | | edTOClasses | | | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | testAction | + | M | M | _-_ | | PerformerId | | | | | | | | see note | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE: This | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | is only | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | in case the | | | | | | IOC | | | | | | TestActi | | | | | | onPerformer | | | | | | is | | | | | | in | | | | | | stantiated. | | | | | | In case | | | | | | this IOC is | | | | | | an abstract | | | | | | class and | | | | | | used for | | | | | | inheritance | | | | | | purposes | | | | | | only the | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | omitted. | | | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 5.3.3 Information Object Class _TesterObject_
#### 5.3.3.1 Definition
The IOC _TesterObject_ monitors and controls the testing of a _MORT_ instance
and reports the outcome of the test execution. Tester Objects (TOs) are
instantiated by the IOC _TestActionPerformer_ in response to a valid test
initiation request (_initiateTests_). They are deleted after termination of
the test. It is also possible that TOs are permanently instantiated. In this
case they are allocated to a certain _TestActionPerformer_ during the test
execution. After termination of the test they are released.
The IOC _TesterObject_ defines a generic TO. It shall be used as an abstract
class from which more specific tester objects shall be derived by
specialisation for each test category. Test categories and the associated test
category specific TOs are defined in ITU-T Recommendation X.737 [10]. These
test category specific TOs can be specialised further by defining Vendor-
Specific-Extended (VSE) TOs. The generic TO defines attributes pertaining to a
test and required for all test categories.
Each test invocation shall have only one associated TO.
Only test category specific TOs or VSE TOs shall be instantiated.
For simplicity this specification will often use only the term TO. In this
case either the test category specific TO or the VSE TO is referred to
depending on which is actually instantiated.
#### 5.3.3.2 Attributes
+-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Visibility | Support | Read | Write | | name | | Qualifier | Qualifier | Qualifier | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | testOutcome | + | M | M | _-_ | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | testState | + | M | M | _-_ | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | t | - | C | M | _-_ | | estInvocati | | | | | | onInitiator | | | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | additional | - | O | - | - | | Information | | | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | proposedRe | - | O | - | - | | pairActions | | | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | fi | - | M | - | - | | leReference | | | | | | | | see note | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | fil | - | M | - | - | | eExpiryDate | | | | | | | | see note | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | tes | + | M | M | - | | terObjectId | | | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE: In | | | | | | case the TO | | | | | | does | | | | | | support | | | | | | capturing | | | | | | test | | | | | | results in | | | | | | a file this | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present and | | | | | | contain | | | | | | i | | | | | | nformation. | | | | | | In case the | | | | | | TO does not | | | | | | support | | | | | | capturing | | | | | | test | | | | | | results in | | | | | | a file this | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | shall | | | | | | contain no | | | | | | information | | | | | | or shall be | | | | | | absent. | | | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 5.3.4 Information Object Class _ResourceSelfTestTesterObject_
#### 5.3.4.1 Definition
The IOC _ResourceSelfTesterObject_ is a specialised TO for the resource self
test. It inherits from the IOC _TesterObject._ It specifies the triggering
events for the emission of the test result notifications.
#### 5.3.4.2 Attributes
This IOC has no own attributes, only those inherited from the generic IOC
_TesterObject_.
### 5.3.5 Proxy Class VSETestCategoryTesterObject
#### 5.3.5.1 Definition
Certain tests may not fit in any of the test categories defined in ITU-T
Recommendation X.737 [10]. In this case vendors may define new (VSE) test
categories and the associated test category specific TOs. The Proxy Class
_VSETestCategoryTesterObject_ represents the set of these VSE test category
tester objects
The IOCs represented by the Proxy Class _VSETestCategoryTesterObject_ shall
inherit from the IOC _TesterObject_.
NOTE: A vendor may also claim 3GPP compliance to a certain release in case
that a specific test fits into one of the ITU-T test categories without that
the corresponding ITU-T test category specific TO is supported in this release
supposed that this test category specific TO will be added in a later release
than the current one. The vendor shall update this specification in due time.
#### 5.3.5.2 Attributes
The attributes of this IOC are vendor specific.
### 5.3.6 Proxy Class VSEResourceSelfTestTesterObject
#### 5.3.6.1 Definition
In case the IOC _ResourceSelfTestTesterObject_ does not fulfil the specific
requirements of a certain resource self test, vendors may define proprietary
IOCs by further specialisation. The Proxy Class
_VSEResourceSelfTestTesterObject_ represents these IOCs.
The IOCs represented by the Proxy Class _VSEResourceSelfTestTesterObject_
shall inherit from the IOC _ResourceSelfTestTesterObject_.
#### 5.3.6.2 Attributes
Apart from the attributes inherited the attributes of the IOCs represented by
this Proxy Class are vendor specific.
### 5.3.7 Proxy Class _VSETesterObject_
#### 5.3.7.1 Definition
In case an IOC represented by the Proxy Class _VSETestCategoryTesterObject_
does not fulfil the specific requirements of a certain test, vendors may
define proprietary IOCs by further specialisation. The Proxy Class
_VSETesterObject_ represents these IOCs.
The IOCs represented by the Proxy Class _VSETesterObject_ shall inherit from
the associated IOC represented by the Proxy Class
_VSETestCategoryTesterObject_.
#### 5.3.7.2 Attributes
Apart from the attributes inherited the attributes of the IOCs represented by
this Proxy Class are vendor specific.
### 5.3.8 Proxy Class _MORT_
#### 5.3.8.1 Definition
The ProxyClass _MORT_ represents a network resource that is under test. Its
class definition shall be one defined in the various 3GPP Network Resource
Model specifications or defined by a VSE network resource class.
#### 5.3.8.2 Attributes
This IOC has no attributes.
### 5.3.9 Information Object Class _TestInvocation_
#### 5.3.9.1 Definition
The IOC _TestInvocation_ is the abstract representation of a test invocation.
A test invocation shall aim to test one or more capabilities of a MORT. The
IRPManager can request for the establishment of a test invocation using the
operation _initiateTests_.
A MORT can be complex in that there are multiple capabilities that can be
subject to test. Therefore, it is possible to have multiple test activities
active, all aimed at the same MORT but on its different capabilities. Whether
multiple test activities can be testing the same MORT capabilities at the same
time is an implementation decision, probably based on the nature and behaviour
of the TO, and therefore, is outside the scope of this specification.
#### 5.3.9.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
actualStartTime + O M _-_ actualStopTime + O M - maxTestingPhaseDuration - O -
- testInvocationId + M M -
* * *
### 5.3.10 Information Object Class _NetworkPerformFaultTesterObject_
#### 5.3.10.1 Definition
The IOC NetworkPerformFaultTesterObject is a specialised TO for the network
performance test. It inherits from the IOC TesterObject _._
#### 5.3.10.2 Attributes
Apart from the attributes inherited from the generic IOC TesterObject, this
IOC has own attributes in the below table.
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
testSourceAddress + M M M testDestinationAddress + M M M testLoopbackAddress +
M M M testPacketInformation + M M M
* * *
### 5.3.11 Proxy Class VSENetworkPerformFaultTesterObject
#### 5.3.11.1 Definition
In case the IOC NetworkPerformFaultTesterObject does not fulfil the specific
requirements of a certain connection test, vendors may define proprietary IOCs
by further specialisation. The Proxy Class VSENetworkPerformFaultTesterObject
represents these IOCs.
The IOCs represented by the Proxy Class VSENetworkPerformFaultTesterObject
shall inherit from the IOC NetworkPerformFaultTesterObject.
#### 5.3.11.2 Attributes
Apart from the attributes inherited the attributes of the IOCs represented by
this Proxy Class are vendor specific.
## 5.4 Information relationships definition
### 5.4.1 Relationship between TestManagementIRP and TestActionPerformer
#### 5.4.1.1 Definition
This relationship defines a binary association between the IOC
_TestManagementIRP_ and the IOC _TestActionPerformer_.
#### 5.4.1.2 Roles
This relationship has no roles.
### 5.4.2 Relationship between TestActionPerformer and TesterObject
#### 5.4.2.1 Definition
This relationship defines a binary association between the IOC
_TestActionPerformer_ and the IOC _TesterObject_. The association is navigable
from the _TestActionPerformer_ to the _TesterObject_.
#### 5.4.2.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theTesterObject This rolename provides a name allowing to
navigate from an instance of _TestActionPerformer_ to the associated instances
of _TesterObject_. If _tap_ is an instance of _TestActionPerformert_ , the
expression _tap.theTesterObject_ yields the set of object instances of
_TesterObject_.
* * *
### 5.4.3 Relationship between TestActionPerformer and TestInvocation
#### 5.4.3.1 Definition
This relationship defines a binary association between the IOC
_TestActionPerformer_ and the IOC _TestInvocation_.\ The association is
navigable from the _TesterObject_ to the _TestInvocation_.
#### 5.4.3.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theTestInvocation This rolename provides a name allowing to
navigate from an instance of _TestActionPerformer_ to the associated instances
of _TestInvocation_. If _tap_ is an instance of _TestActionPerformert_ , the
expression _tap.theTestInvocation_ yields the set of object instances of
_TestInvocationt_.
* * *
### 5.4.4 Relationship between _TesterObject_ and _TestInvocation_
#### 5.4.4.1 Definition
This relationship defines a binary association between the IOC _TesterObject_
and the IOC _TestInvocation_.\ The association is navigable in both
directions.
#### 5.4.4.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theTesterObject This rolename provides a name allowing to
navigate from an instance of _TestInvocation_ to the associated instance of
_TesterObject_. If _ti_ is an instance of _TestInvocation_ , the expression
_ti.theTesterObject_ yields an object instance of _TesterObject_.
theTestInvocation This rolename provides a name allowing to navigate from an
instance of _TesterObject_ to the associated instance of _TestInvocation_. If
_to_ is an instance of _TesterObject_ , the expression _to.theTestInvocation_
yields an object instance of _TestInvocation_.
* * *
### 5.4.5 Relationship between _TesterObject_ and _MORT_
#### 5.4.5.1 Definition
This relationship defines a binary association between the IOC _TesterObject_
and the Proxy Class _MORT_.\ The association is navigable from the
_TesterObject_ to the _MORT_.
#### 5.4.5.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theMORT This rolename provides a name allowing to navigate
from an instance of _TesterObject_ to the associated instance of _MORT_. If
_to_ is an instance of _TesterObject_ , the expression _to.theMORT_ yields an
object instance of _MORT_.
* * *
### 5.4.6 Relationship between _TestInvocation_ and _MORT_
#### 5.4.6.1 Definition
This relationship defines an association between the IOC _TestInvocation_ and
the IOC _MORT_. This association specifies that the latter is testing the
former.
#### 5.4.6.2 Roles
Instead of roles this relationship has a role name.
## 5.5 Information attributes definition
### 5.5.1 Definition and legal Values
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | testInvocationId | This attribute | | | | uniquely identifies | | | | an instance of a | | | | _TestInvocation_ | | | | within the | | | | TestManagementIRP. | | | | The test invocation | | | | identifier is | | | | assigned by the | | | | TestActionPerformer. | | | | When a | | | | testInvocationId can | | | | be reused is outside | | | | the scope of this | | | | specification. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | testState | This attribute | ENUM | | | reflects the actual | {notInitialized, | | | test state (ITU‑T | idle, initializing, | | | Recommendation X.745 | testing, | | | [5]). | terminating, | | | | disabled} | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | testOutcome | This attribute | ENUM {pass, fail, | | | provides information | inconclusive, | | | about the test | timed-out, | | | result, as perceived | pr | | | by the associated | emature-termination} | | | TO, in a | | | | standardised manner. | Pass indicates that | | | | the test exercise of | | | The information in | the test invocation | | | this parameter is | has executed | | | only valid after | correctly and has | | | termination of the | found no problem. | | | test activity. | | | | | Fail indicates that | | | This information | the test exercise of | | | shall be present in | the test invocation | | | the last test result | has executed | | | notification emitted | correctly and has | | | by a TO prior to its | found one or more | | | deletion. | problems. | | | | | | | | Inconclusive | | | | indicates that the | | | | TO has not | | | | determined if the | | | | execution is Pass or | | | | Fail. | | | | | | | | Timed-out indicates | | | | that the TO has | | | | terminated its | | | | execution because of | | | | the expiry of the | | | | timer (i.e., the | | | | current time -- | | | | TestSess | | | | ion.sessionStartTime | | | | >= | | | | Te | | | | sterObject.timeOut). | | | | | | | | Premature | | | | termination | | | | indicates that the | | | | TO has (a) never | | | | started execution or | | | | (b) terminated its | | | | execution | | | | prematurely, either | | | | by | | | | _TestManagementIRP_ | | | | and its associated | | | | objects internal | | | | problems or in | | | | response to a | | | | _terminateTests_ | | | | operation. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | supportedTOClasses | This attribute | SET OF TO class name | | | identifies the TO | | | | classes that are | | | | supported by a | | | | certain managed | | | | object instance | | | | whose class has | | | | inherited from | | | | * | | | | TestActionPerformer _| | | | or whose class is | | | | the | | | |_ T | | | | estActionPerformer _. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | t | This attribute | | | estActionPerformerId | unambiguously | | | | identifies an | | | | instance of a | | | |_ T | | | | estActionPerformer _. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | testerObjectId | This attribute | | | | unambiguously | | | | identifies an | | | | instance of a | | | |_ TesterObject _. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tes | It identifies the | How multiple | | tInvocationInitiator | IRPManager. | IRPManagers choose | | | | their identifier so | | | | that they are | | | | distinguishable is | | | | outside the scope of | | | | this specification. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | a | This attribute holds | The semantics of | | dditionalInformation | a set of additional | this parameter are | | | information | outside the scope of | | | pertaining to the | this specification | | | test. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | p | This attribute | The semantics of | | roposedRepairActions | suggests one or more | this parameter are | | | repair actions if | outside the scope of | | | the reason for a | this specification | | | failure is known. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | actualStartTime | This attribute | All values | | | specifies the time | indicating a valid | | | at which the TO will | time. | | | enter or has entered | | | | the test state | | | |_ testing _. Before | | | | the TO enters the | | | | testing state this | | | | is an estimated | | | | time. After entering | | | | the testing state | | | | this is the actual | | | | time. Note that this | | | | is not the time of | | | | the invocation of | | | | the operation | | | |_ initiateTests _. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | actualStopTime | This attribute | All values | | | specifies the time | indicating a valid | | | at which the TO will | time later than the | | | leave or has left |_ actualStartTime _. | | | the test state | | | |_ testing _. Before | | | | the TO leaves the | | | | testing state this | | | | is an estimated | | | | time. After leaving | | | | the testing state | | | | this is the actual | | | | time. Note that this | | | | is not the time of | | | | the invocation of | | | | the operation | | | |_ terminateTests _. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | max | This attribute | All values | | TestingPhaseDuration | specifies the | indicating a valid | | | maximum amount of | amount of time. | | | time that a TO may | | | | spend in the testing | | | | state. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | fileReference | This attribute | | | | carries the | | | | reference to a file | | | | that contains the | | | | test result data | | | | set. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | fileExpiryDate | This attribute | All values | | | carries the date and | indicating a valid | | | time after which the | time. | | | file, whose | | | | reference is carried | | | | by the | | | |_ fileReference* | | | | attribute, may be | | | | removed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | testSourceAddress | This attribute | An IP address | | | provides the source | indicating source. | | | address of the test. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | te | This attribute | An IP address | | stDestinationAddress | provides the | indicating | | | destination address | destination. | | | of the test. | | | | | In a loopback test, | | | | it should be NULL. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | testLoopbackAddress | This attribute | An IP address | | | provides the | indicating loopback | | | loopback address in | point in a loopback | | | a loopback test. | test. | | | | | | | | In connection test, | | | | it should be NULL. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# 6 Interface definition
## 6.1 Class diagram representing interfaces
The following diagram depicts the interfaces of the Test Management IRP with
their corresponding operations and notifications.
## 6.2 Generic rules
**Rule 1:** Each operation with at least one input parameter supports a pre-
condition valid_input_parameter which indicates that all input parameters
shall be valid with regards to their information type. Additionally, each such
operation supports an exception operation_failed_invalid_input_parameter which
is raised when pre-condition valid_input_parameter is false. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
**Rule 2:** Each operation with at least one optional input parameter supports
a set of pre-conditions supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx where \"xxx\"
is the name of the optional input parameter and the pre‑condition indicates
that the operation supports the named optional input parameter. Additionally,
each such operation supports an exception
operation_failed_unsupported_optional_input_parameter_xxx which is raised when
(a) the pre-condition supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx is false and (b)
the named optional input parameter is carrying information. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
**Rule 3:** Each operation shall support a generic exception
operation_failed_internal_problem that is raised when an internal problem
occurs and that the operation cannot be completed. The exception has the same
entry and exit state.
## 6.3 Interface testManagementIRPControlOperations
The interface _TestManagementIRPControlOperations_ contains the operations
_initiateTests_ and _terminateTests_. It must be implemented by every object
with the ability to receive and react upon test requests, for example by every
instance of _TestActionPerformer_.
### 6.3.1 Operation _initiateTests_ (M)
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
The IRPManager uses this operation to request the IRPAgent to initiate
controlled tests. A single test request may initiate multiple (one or more)
tests.
For each test to be initiated the managed object representing the network
resource to be tested and the tester object class must be specified.
The initiated tests are independent and not related to each other. This
implies that independent test result notifications are sent for each of the
tests initiated by s single _initiateTests_ operation.
#### 6.3.1.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | Type | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | testInvo | C | TesterObject. | This parameter | | cationInitiator | | testInvo | identifies the | | | | cationInitiator | IRPManager.. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | toB | M | SET OF SET {\ | This sequence | | eInitiatedTests | | maxTesti | specifies the | | | | ngStateDuration | tests to be | | | | (O)\ | initiated. | | | | toBeTestedMORT | | | | | (O)\ | For each test | | | | te | the parameter | | | | sterObjectClass | | | | | (M)\ | _maxTestin | | | | t | gStateDuration_ | | | | esterObjectName | specifies the | | | | (O)\ | timeout period | | | | te | of the tests to | | | | sterObjectIniti | be initiated. | | | | alAttributeList | One value shall | | | | (O)\ | indicate "No | | | | } | limit". | | | | | | | | | | * | | | | | toBeTestedMORT _| | | | | specifies the | | | | | instance of the | | | | |_ MORT _to be | | | | | tested. If the | | | | | parameter is | | | | | absent, the | | | | |_ MORT _is | | | | | identical to | | | | | the object | | | | | instance to | | | | | which the | | | | | subject | | | | | operation is | | | | | directed to. | | | | | | | | | | The parameter | | | | |_ tes | | | | | terObjectClass _| | | | | specifies the | | | | | class of the | | | | | associated | | | | | tester object. | | | | | Optionally, a | | | | | name for the | | | | | tester object | | | | | instance may be | | | | | specified in | | | | | the parameter | | | | |_ tes | | | | | terObjectName _. | | | | | | | | | | The parameter | | | | |_ tes | | | | | terObjectInitia | | | | | lAttributeList* | | | | | carries some or | | | | | all the values | | | | | of the | | | | | attributes of | | | | | the TO instance | | | | | responsible for | | | | | the test. The | | | | | syntax and | | | | | semantics of | | | | | this attribute | | | | | value is | | | | | dependent on | | | | | the specific TO | | | | | class | | | | | definition and | | | | | is outside the | | | | | scope of 3GPP. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.3.1.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | response | M | SEQUENCE OF | The number and | | | | CHOICE {\ | the order, | | | | testInitiated\ | related to the | | | | te | tests to be | | | | stNotInitiated\ | initiated, of | | | | } | elements in | | | | | this sequence | | | | testInitiated = | and in the set | | | | SEQUENCE {\ | of the input | | | | T | parameter | | | | estInvocation.t | _toBe | | | | estInvocationId | InitiatedTests_ | | | | (M) | shall be | | | | | identical. | | | | t | | | | | esterObjectName | For a | | | | (O) | successfully | | | | | instantiated | | | | } | test the | | | | | parameter | | | | t | _testInitiated_ | | | | estNotInitiated | returns the | | | | =\ | test invocation | | | | failureReason | identifier of | | | | | the test. In | | | | | case the tester | | | | | object name has | | | | | not been | | | | | specified in | | | | | the request it | | | | | shall be | | | | | returned in | | | | | _tes | | | | | terObjectName_. | | | | | | | | | | For a failed | | | | | test | | | | | instantiation | | | | | the parameter | | | | | * | | | | | testNotInvoked* | | | | | returns the | | | | | reason why the | | | | | instantiation | | | | | of the test | | | | | failed. | | | | | | | | | | Failure reasons | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | TO class is not | | | | | existing | | | | | | | | | | MORT is not | | | | | existing | | | | | | | | | | MORT is not | | | | | available | | | | | | | | | | others | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.3.1.4 Pre-condition
The precondition must hold true before the operation is invoked. The pre-
condition depends on the test category.
For at least one of the specified tests to be instantiated the following must
hold true:
theIndicatedMORTIsExisting **AND** theIndicatedMORTIsAvailable **AND**
theIndicatedTOClassIsExisting.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition theIndicatedMORTIsExisting The MORT indicated by the
subject operation for this test is existing theIndicatedMORTIsAvailable The
MORT indicated by the subject operation for this test is available.
theIndicatedTOClassIsExisting The TO class indicated by the subject operation
for this test is existing.
* * *
#### 6.3.1.5 Post-condition
The post-condition must hold true after the completion of the operation:
allIndicatedTOsInstantiated **OR** notAllTestsInitiated **OR** noTestInitiated
* * *
Assertion Name Definition allTestsInitiated All tests indicated by the subject
operation were initiated successfully. notAllTestsInitiated Not all but at
least one test indicated by the subject operation was initiated successfully.
noTestInitiated No test indicated by the subject operation was initiated
successfully.
* * *
#### 6.3.1.6 Exceptions
+-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | operationFailedEntirely | **Condition:** noTestInitiated = TRUE | | | | | | **Returned information:** The response | | | parameter is returned | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | operationFailedPartly | **Condition:** notAllTestsInitiated = | | | TRUE | | | | | | **Returned information:** The response | | | parameter is returned | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
### 6.3.2 Operation _terminateTests_ (M)
#### 6.3.2.1 Definition
The IRPManager uses this operation to request the IRPAgent to terminate tests
during their life time. A single _terminateTests_ operation may terminate
multiple (one or more) tests.
The tests to be terminated are identified by their test invocation
identifiers. The IRPManager terminating a test may be different from the
IRPManager that initiated the test. The _terminateTests_ operation must be
invoked on the object which received the corresponding _initiateTests_
operation.
#### 6.3.2.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information Type Comment toBeTerminatedTests M SET OF
TestInvocation.testInvocationId This parameter specifies the tests that shall
be terminated.
* * *
#### 6.3.2.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | response | M | SEQUENCE OF | The number and | | | | CHOICE {\ | the order, | | | | testTerminated\ | related to the | | | | tes | test invocation | | | | tNotTerminated\ | identifier, of | | | | } | elements in | | | | | this sequence | | | | testTerminated | and in the set | | | | = | of the input | | | | T | parameter | | | | estInvocation.t | _toBeT | | | | estInvocationId | erminatedTests_ | | | | | shall be | | | | te | identical. | | | | stNotTerminated | | | | | =\ | It specifies | | | | SEQUENCE {\ | the test | | | | Tes | invocation ids | | | | tInvocation.tes | of the tests, | | | | tInvocationId,\ | that were | | | | failureReason\ | successfully | | | | } | terminated, and | | | | | the ids of the | | | | | tests, that | | | | | failed to be | | | | | terminated | | | | | successfully | | | | | together with | | | | | the reason for | | | | | the failure. | | | | | | | | | | Failure reasons | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | test invocation | | | | | id is not | | | | | existing | | | | | | | | | | others | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.3.2.4 Pre-condition
The precondition must hold true before the operation is invoked.
allIndicatedTestInvocationIdsAreExisting **OR**
notAllIndicatedTestInvocationIdsAreExisting
* * *
Assertion Name Definition allIndicatedTestInvocationIdsAreExisting All test
invocation identifiers specified by the subject operation are existing.
notAllIndicatedTestInvocationIdsAreExisting Not all but at least one test
invocation identifier specified by the subject operation is existing.
* * *
#### 6.3.2.5 Post-condition
The post-condition must hold true after the completion of the operation.
allIndicatedTestsTerminated **OR** notAllIndicatedTestsTerminated **OR**
noIndicatedTestTerminated
* * *
Assertion Name Definition allIndicatedTestsTerminated All tests indicated in
the subject operation were terminated successfully.
notAllIndicatedTestsTerminated Not all but at least one test indicated in the
subject operation aaws terminated successfully noIndicatedTestTerminated No
test indicated in the subject operation aaws terminated successfully
* * *
#### 6.3.2.6 Exceptions
+-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | operationFailedEntirely | **Condition:** noIndicatedTestTerminated | | | = TRUE | | | | | | **Returned information:** The response | | | parameter is returned | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | operationFailedPartly | **Condition:** | | | no | | | tAllIndicatedTestInvocationIdsAreExisting | | | = TRUE **OR** | | | notAllIndicatedTestsTerminated = TRUE | | | | | | **Returned information:** The response | | | parameter is returned | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
## 6.4 Interface TestManagementIRPMonitorOperations
The interface _TestManagementIRPMonitorOperations_ contains the operation
_monitorTest_. It has a realisation relationship with the IOC
_TestActionPerformer_.
### 6.4.1 Operation _monitorTest_ (M)
#### 6.4.1.1 Definition
IRPManager shall be able to retrieve information about the test as observed by
the TO during the test execution by reading the relevant attributes of the TO
associated to the test. Also after the test execution the manager shall be
able to read these attributes as long as the TO exists. Attributes conveying
information about the test execution are _testState_ and _testOutcome_.
Depending on the specific test category specific TO or the VSE TO other
attributes may also contain information about the test execution. In this case
the subject operation may also allow to read the values of these attributes.
#### 6.4.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information Type Comment toBeMonitoredTO M tOInstance
This parameter specifies the instance of the tester object, whose attribute
values of _testState_ , _testOutcome_ and other attributes shall be retrieved.
* * *
#### 6.4.1.3 Output parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | monitored | M | SET {\ | This parameter | | AttributeValues | | TesterO | shall be | | | | bject.testState | returned if all | | | | (M)\ | attributes were | | | | TesterObj | read | | | | ect.testOutcome | successfully | | | | (M)\ | and may be | | | | other | returned, if at | | | | attributes (O)\ | least one | | | | } | attribute was | | | | | read | | | | | successfully. | | | | | | | | | | The values to | | | | | be returned are | | | | | those prevalent | | | | | at the time of | | | | | the reception | | | | | of the subject | | | | | operation. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | error | M | failureReason | This parameter | | | | | shall be | | | | | returned if the | | | | | specified | | | | | tester object | | | | | instance is not | | | | | existing or, in | | | | | case the tester | | | | | object instance | | | | | is existing, at | | | | | least one | | | | | attribute could | | | | | not be read, i. | | | | | e. if\ | | | | | operatio | | | | | nFailedEntirely | | | | | = TRUE\ | | | | | OR\ | | | | | operat | | | | | ionFailedPartly | | | | | = TRUE | | | | | | | | | | The parameter | | | | | returns the | | | | | failure reason. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.4.1.4 Pre-condition
The precondition must hold true before the operation is invoked.
indicatedTOInstanceIsExisting
* * *
Assertion Name Definition toBeMonitoredTOIsExisting The TO instance indicated
by the subject operation is existing.
* * *
#### 6.4.1.5 Post-condition
The post-condition must hold true after the completion of the operation.
allAttributeValuesRead **OR** notAllAttributeValuesRead **OR**
noAttributeValueRead
* * *
Assertion Name Definition allAttributeValuesRead All attributes of the TO
indicated by the subject operation were read successfully.
notAllAttributeValuesRead Not all but at least one attribute of the TO
indicated by the subject operation were read successfully.
noAttributeValueRead No attribute of the TO indicated by the subject operation
was read successfully.
* * *
#### 6.4.1.6 Exception
+-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | operationFailedEntirely | **Condition:** toBeMonitoredTOIsExisting | | | = FALSE **OR** noAttributeValueRead = | | | TRUE | | | | | | **Returned information:** The error | | | parameter returns the object identifier | | | of the TO that does not exist or the | | | reasons, why the attributes could not be | | | read | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | operationFailedPartly | **Condition:** toBeMonitoredTOIsExisting | | | = TRUE **AND** notAllAttributeValuesRead | | | = TRUE | | | | | | **Returned information:** The error | | | parameter returns the reason why an | | | attribute could not be read. The | | | attribute that could be read my be | | | returned in the parameter _error_ or the | | | parameter _attributeList_ | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
## 6.5 Interface TestManagementIRPNotifications
### 6.5.1 Notification _notifyTestResults_ (M)
#### 6.5.1.1 Definition
Test results are made available to the IRPManager by one or more notifications
_notifyTestResults_ emitted by the TO that is related to the test invocation.
Depending on the nature of the test and the specification of the TO behaviour,
the TO may need to convey to the IRPManager a test result data set. There are
two ways to convey this kind of information. One way is to use the parameter
_additionalInformation_ of the notification. In this case, the _fileReference_
and _fileExpiryDate_ shall contain no information or be absent. The other way
is to use a file to capture the test result data set. In this case, the
_additionalInformation_ parameter may contain no information or be absent and
the _fileReference_ and _fileExpiryDate_ shall be present. The file that
captures the test result data set shall contain VSE attributes and other 3GPP
attributes such as _testerObjectClass_ , _testOutcome_ , etc.
The use of the _additionalInformation_ parameter or a file to capture the test
result data set is specified by the class specification of the TO.
In case the TO uses _additionalInformation_ (and not a file) to capture the
test result data set, that TO may emit this notification to transfer
intermediate (non-final) test results. In this kind of notifications, the
_testOutcome_ parameter shall be absent. The TO should emit at least one more
notification regarding the subject test invocation in the future. The last
notification pertaining to a particular test invocation shall be indicated by
including the _testOutcome_ parameter in the notification.
In the case the TO uses a file to capture the test result data set, that TO
shall not issue any notifications to transfer intermediate test results. The
TO may capture the non-final test results in the file used to capture the
final test result data set.
The events triggering the emission of test result notifications depend on the
specific test. They shall be specified by the TO that is actually
instantiated, i.e. either by the test category specific TO or the VSE TO. Some
generic triggering events are included in this specification. It is expected
that vendors specify more triggering events.
+-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectClass | M, Y | TesterObj | Notification | | | | ect.objectClass | header - see | | | | | [1]. It shall | | | | | carry the TO | | | | | class name. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectInstance | M, Y | TesterObject | Notification | | | | .objectInstance | header - see | | | | | [1]. It shall | | | | | carry the DN of | | | | | the TO.. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | notificationId | O, N | -- | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | [1]. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | eventTime | M, Y | -- | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | [1]. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | systemDN | C, Y | -- | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | [1]. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n | M, Y | \"noti | Notification | | otificationType | | fyTestResults\" | header - see | | | | | [1]. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | t | O, N | T | | | estInvocationId | | estInvocation.t | | | | | estInvocationId | | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | testInvo | C, Y | Tester | | | cationInitiator | | Object.testInvo | | | | | cationInitiator | | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | testOutcome | O, N\ | TesterObj | It shall be | | | (see note) | ect.testOutcome | included only | | | | | in the last | | | | | notification | | | | | emitted by a | | | | | TO. In this way | | | | | the TO | | | | | indicates that | | | | | it is sending | | | | | no more | | | | | notifications. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | mORT | O, N | Teste | It identifies | | | | rObject.theMORT | the object | | | | | instance of the | | | | | MORT that was | | | | | subject to the | | | | | test. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | propos | O, N | Test | | | edRepairActions | | erObject.propos | | | | | edRepairActions | | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | additi | O, N\ | Test | It allows the | | onalInformation | (see note) | erObject.additi | inclusion of | | | | onalInformation | any additional | | | | | information in | | | | | the | | | | | notification. | | | | | As such, it may | | | | | carry a test | | | | | result data | | | | | set. | | | | | | | | | | The exact | | | | | semantics of | | | | | this parameter | | | | | is outside the | | | | | scope of this | | | | | specification. | | | | | | | | | | This parameter | | | | | may contain no | | | | | information or | | | | | be absent, if | | | | | the test | | | | | results are | | | | | captured in a | | | | | file. It may be | | | | | present if the | | | | | test results | | | | | are not | | | | | captured in a | | | | | file. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | fileReference | M, N\ | TesterObjec | It shall | | | (see note) | t.fileReference | contain no | | | | | information or | | | | | be absent if | | | | | there is no | | | | | test result | | | | | captured in a | | | | | file. It shall | | | | | contain | | | | | information if | | | | | the test | | | | | results are | | | | | captured in a | | | | | file. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | fileExpiryDate | M, N\ | TesterObject | It shall | | | (see note) | .fileExpiryDate | contain no | | | | | information or | | | | | be absent if | | | | | fileReference | | | | | carries no | | | | | information or | | | | | absent. | | | | | Otherwise, it | | | | | shall contain a | | | | | valid future | | | | | date and time. | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | NOTE: As for | | | | | the correct | | | | | interpretation | | | | | of this | | | | | qualifier refer | | | | | to the comment | | | | | column. | | | | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.5.1.2 Triggering Events for the Test
For the test the events triggering the emission of test result notifications
are:
  * Termination of the test execution.
The test may be terminated explicitly by a test termination request. The
events triggering an implicit termination are:
  * Fulfilment of the conditions for a successful termination of the > test.
  * Fulfilment of the conditions for a premature termination of the > test.
  * Occurrence of an error situation.
##### 6.5.1.2.1 From-State
testTerminateRequestReceived OR testCompleted OR prematureTermination OR
testTimedOut OR errorSituationOccured.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition testTerminateRequestReceived The object with the
ability to receive and react upon test requests has received a test
termination request (see note). testCompleted The predefined conditions for a
successful completion of the test are fulfilled (see note).
prematureTermination The predefined conditions for a premature termination of
the test are fulfilled (see note). errorSituationOccured An error situation
has occurred during the test execution and the tester object has aborted the
test invocation (see note). NOTE: The conditions to satisfy this trigger are
related to the VSE TO definition and therefore, their specifications are
outside the scope of 3GPP.
* * *
##### 6.5.1.2.2 To-State
testTerminated
* * *
Assertion Name Definition testTerminated The test has been terminated
successfully.
* * *
###### ## Annex A (informative): Network Performance Measurement Procedure
There are four procedures in network performance measurement: initiation,
termination, monitor and test result report.
In the initiation, NM sends an initiation request in which there are some
configuration parameters to EM with operation _initialTests_. The EM will
store the parameters and send some configuration parameters to the source NE
and destination NE (or the loopback NE) to initiate the network performance
measurement. For the IP network, the network elements will start the test with
the protocols defined in IETF [12] [13]. The following figure illustrates the
test initialisation procedure.
Figure A.1 Initiation procedure for Network Performance Measurement
When the NM terminates the test, NM sends a termination request to EM with
operation _terminateTests_. The EM will save and send some parameters to the
source NE and destination NE (or the loopback NE) to terminate the network
performance measurement. The following figure illustrates the test termination
procedure.
Figure A.2 Termination procedure for Network Performance Measurement
When the NM monitors the test, NM sends a monitor request to EM with operation
_monitorTests_. If it is needed, the EM will send request to the NE(s) to
retrieve information before it send back the output parameters. Then the EM
will send back the output parameters to the NM. The following figure
illustrates the test monitor procedure.
Figure A.3 Monitor procedure for Network Performance Measurement
After the test is terminated, the test result is recorded in a test result
file in EM. Then the EM sends a notification _notifyTestResults_ to the NM, in
which there is some information for the NM to retrieve the file. The following
figure illustrates the test monitor procedure.
Figure A.4 Test result report procedure for Network Performance Measurement
#