# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.331 \"Notification Log (NL) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements\".
32.332 \"Notification Log (NL) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)\".
32.333 \"Notification Log (NL) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Common
Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
**32.335 \"Notification Log (NL) Integration Reference Point (IRP); eXtensible
Markup Language (XML) solution definitions\".**
The present document is part of a TS-family, which describes the requirements
and information model necessary for Telecommunications Management (TM). The TM
principles and TM architecture are specified in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS
32.102 [2].
A communications system is composed of a multitude of Network Elements (NE) of
various types and, typically, different vendors, which inter-operate in a
coordinated manner in order to satisfy the network users\' communication
requirements.
The occurrence of faults in an NE may cause deterioration or loss of this
NE\'s function. Fault Management is the functional area, which allows the
operator to detect the occurrence of faults in the network in real-time.
Configuration Management and Performance Management are two more functional
areas, which require the operator to be alerted to certain conditions in the
network.
A standard general-purpose mechanism for the management of logs containing
selected notifications from the network is required to provide an ability to
perform historical analysis on faults and conditions, which occurred in the
network. The documents series 32.33x, constituting the Notification Log IRP,
sets forth such a mechanism - and the present document contains the relevant
XML definition.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the XML Definitions for the Notification Log
IRP as it applies to Itf-N, in accordance with the requirements in 3GPP TS
32.331 [3] and Information Service definitions in 3GPP TS 32.332 [4].
This XML Definitions specification defines the XML syntax of the NL IRP XML
Data File.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.331: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.332: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.342: \"Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.305: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup
Language (XML) definitions\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.111-5: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
5: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup Language (XML)
definitions\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], and 3GPP TS 32.331 [3] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
NL Notification Log
UML Unified Modelling Language
IRP Integration Reference Point
NRM Network Resource Model
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Structure and content of NL IRP XML
The present clause defines the XML exchanged between an IRPManager and an
IRPAgent as part of NL IRP IS (see 3GPP TS 32.332 [4]):
  * the NL IRP XML Data File,
  * NL IRP notifications.
The use of XML schemas ensures NL XML have the proper structure and to some
extent the proper content, and in particular to ensure:
\- for a given Notification instance, it is properly named/positioned with
regard to the global naming tree;
\- for a given Notification instance, only attributes of the corresponding
Notification are present;
\- for a given Notification attribute, its value is of the proper type.
XML definitions for other application specific notifications (e.g. Alarm IRP
notifications, Notification IRP Notification Header) are defined within the
respective IRP series within specification 32.xy5.
## 4.1 Global structure
Editor\'s Note: To be added in future version of this specification.
## 4.2 XML elements fileHeader and fileFooter
Editor\'s Note: To be added in future version of this specification.
## 4.3 NL IRP XML File Name Conventions
For NL IRP XML File Name Conventions the generic file name definitions as
specified by the FT IRP apply (see [5]).
## 4.4 NL Interface IRP-specific XML schemas
Interface IRP-specific XML schemas with definition of corresponding XML
namespace prefixes are listed by the following table:
Table 4.4: Interface IRP-specific XML schemas, corresponding 3GPP TSs and XML
namespace prefixes
* * *
IRP XML schema 3GPP TS no. XML namespace prefix Alarm IRP alarmIRPnotif.xsd
32.111-5 [7] xa Notification IRP notification.xsd 32.305 [6] xe Notification
Log IRP notificationLog.xsd 32.335 xl
* * *
Each Interface IRP-specific XML schema explicitly declares Interface IRP-
specific XML element types for the related Interface IRP.
Additionally, XML schema notification.xsd (see [06]) also provides global XML
declarations and definitions for the support of:
\- Notification header XML element type declaration
## 4.5 NL IRP XML File Content Definitions
### 4.5.1 NL IRP XML Data File
The structure of the Notification Log IRP XML Data File is shown in graphical
depiction below:
{width="6.992361111111111in" height="1.4215277777777777in"}
Figure 4.5.1: Structure of the Notification Log IRP XML Data File
The notificationLogRecords element holds the instances of the notification
records that are imported from the Notification Format XML schema. Note that
Notification Header XML definitions are provided in [6].
The Notification Log IRP XML Data File is a simple instance based construct.
The XML schema for the Notification Log IRP XML Data File is defined in Annex
A.
## 4.6 NL IRP Notification XML Definitions
This clause provides XML definitions of Notification Log IRP notifications as
defined in 3GPP TS 32.332 [4].
The structure of the NotificationLogIRP Notification XML Definitions is shown
in graphical depiction below:
{width="6.665972222222222in" height="2.4375in"}
{width="6.249305555555556in" height="1.40625in"}
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="1.9951388888888888in"}
{width="6.177777777777778in" height="1.40625in"}
The use of XML schema key word \"sequence\" to support IS-defined set (not
sequence) is for the purpose of XML processor efficiency. This shall not imply
the use of \"sequence\" in other technology.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Configuration data file base XML schema (file
name \"notificationLog.xsd\")
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex B (normative): NotificationLogIRP Notification XML schema
(file name \"ntfLogNotif.xsd\")
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex C (informative): NL IRP XML Example Notification
This annex provides an XML example notification, demonstrating the use of and
the embedding into the NL IRP XML Notification Format. This example makes use
of the Alarm IRP XML Schema for Notification.
\
\
\
\32.335 V7.1\
\Text\
\Text\
\
\
\
\1001\
\
\
\String\
\2147483647\
\2001-12-17T09:30:47.0Z\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\Indeterminate\
\Critical\
\Communications Alarm\
\
\
\String\
\
\2147483647\
\
\
\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\
\
\String\
\
\String\
\2147483647\
\2001-12-17T09:30:47.0Z\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\Indeterminate\
\Critical\
\Communications Alarm\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\String\
\
\2147483647\
\
\
\
\true\
\String\
\Less Severe\
\
\String\
\3.14159E0\
\
\Up\
\3.14159E0\
\3.14159E0\
\
\2001-12-17T09:30:47.0Z\
\
\
\
\Administrative State\
\
\locked\
\
\
\unlocked\
\
\
\
\Usage State\
\
\idle\
\
\
\busy\
\ \
\
\
\
\String\
\Text\
\
\
\String\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\String\
\2147483647\
\2001-12-17T09:30:47.0Z\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\Indeterminate\
\Critical\
\Communications Alarm\
\String\
\Acknowledged\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\String\
\2147483647\
\2001-12-17T09:30:47.0Z\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\
\Agent NE Communications Error\
\
\Alignment
Required\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\String\
\2147483647\
\2001-12-17T09:30:47.0Z\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\Indeterminate\
\Critical\
\Communications Alarm\
\String\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\String\
\2147483647\
\2001-12-17T09:30:47.0Z\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\Indeterminate\
\Critical\
\Communications Alarm\
\String\
\
\
\String\
\
\2147483647\
\2147483647\
\
\
\
\String\
\
\2147483647\
\2147483647\
\
\
\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\String\
\2147483647\
\2001-12-17T09:30:47.0Z\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\Communications Alarm\
\Indeterminate\
\Critical\
\
\
\2001-12-17T09:30:47.0Z\
\String\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\String\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\String\
\2147483647\
\2001-12-17T09:30:47.0Z\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\
\Agent NE Communications Error\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex D (informative): NL IRP XML schema electronic files
The electronic files corresponding to the normative XML schemas defined in the
present document are available in native form in the following archive:
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.335/schema/32335-800-XMLSchema.zip
#