# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
TS 32.331 \"Notification Log (NL) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements\"
TS 32.332 \"Notification Log (NL) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS)\"
**TS 32.333 \"Notification Log (NL) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Common
Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\"**
TS 32.335 \"Notification Log (NL) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
eXtensible Markup Language (XML) solution definitions\"
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the CORBA Solution Set for the IRP whose
semantics are specified in 3GPP TS 32.332 [6] Notification Log IRP:
Information Service.
Clause 1 to 3 provides background information. Clause 4 provides key
architectural features supporting the SS.\ Clause 5 defines the mapping of
operations, notification, parameters and attributes defined in IS to their SS
equivalents. Clause 6 describes the notification interface containing the push
method. Annex A contains the IDL specification.
This Solution Set specification is related to TS 32.332 V8.0.X.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] OMG TC Document telecom/98-11-01: \"OMG Notification Service\".
http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/
[2] OMG CORBA Services: \"Common Object Services Specification, Update:
November 22, 1996\" (Clause 4 contains the Event Service specification).
http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/
[3] 3GPP TS 32.311: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service
(IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.303: \" Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP); Common Object Request
Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.332: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) Management; Information Service (IS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 32.332 [6] apply.
**IRP document version number string (or \"IRPVersion\"):** See 3GPP TS 32.311
[3] subclause 3.1.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
IDL Interface Definition Language
IRP Integration Reference Point
MOC Managed Object Class
MOI Managed Object Instance
NE Network Element
OMG Object Management Group
# 4 Architectural Features
The overall architectural feature of Notification Log IRP is specified in 3GPP
TS 32.332 [6]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the CORBA
SS.
## 4.1 Notification Services
In implementations of CORBA SS, IRPAgent conveys Notification Log
notifications to IRPManager via OMG Notification Service (OMG Notification
Service [1]).
OMG Event Service [2] provides event routing and distribution capabilities.
OMG Notification Service provides, in addition to Event Service, event
filtering and Quality Of Service (QOS).
A necessary and sufficient subset of OMG Notification Services shall be used
to support Notification Log notifications as specified in 3GPP TS 32.332 [6].
These operation are classified as \> in GPP TS 32.332
[6].
# 5\. Mapping
## 5.1 Operation and Notification mapping
3GPP TS 32.332 [6] defines semantics of operations and notifications visible
across the Notification Log IRP.\ The following table indicates the mapping of
these operations and notifications to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table 5.1.1: Mapping from IS Notification/Operation to SS equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation/ | SS Method | Qualifier | | notification 3GPP TS | | | | 32.332 [6] | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | subscribeLog | subscribe_log | M | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | unsubscribeLog | unsubscribe_log | M | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | exportLogRecords | export_log_records | O | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | getLogRecords | get_log_records | O | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | getLogSubscriptionIds | ge | O | | | t_log_subscription_ids | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | getLogSubscriptionStatus | get_ | O | | | log_subscription_status | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notifyLogSubscribed | push_structured_event | M | | | (note 1). See clause 4.1. | | | | | | | | See interface | | | | NotifyLogSubscribed | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notifyLogUnsubscribed | push_structured_event | M | | | (note 1). See clause 4.1. | | | | | | | | See interface | | | | NotifyLogUnubscribed | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | no | push_structured_event | O | | tifyOccupancyLevelCrossed | (note 1). See clause 4.1. | | | | | | | | See interface | | | | Notif | | | | yLogOccupancyLevelCrossed | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notifyLoggingResumed | push_structured_event | O | | | (note 1). See clause 4.1. | | | | | | | | See interface | | | | NotifyLoggingResumed | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | NOTE: OMG Notification | | | | Service OMG Notification | | | | Service [1] defines | | | | this method. | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
## 5.2 Operation parameter mapping
3GPP TS 32.332 [6] defines semantics of parameters carried in operations
across the Notification Log IRP.\ The following tables indicate the mapping of
these parameters, as per operation, to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table 5.2.1: Mapping from IS subscribeLog parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | logSubscriptionId | NotificationLogIRPCon | M | | | stDefs::LogSubscriptionId | | | | logSubscriptionId | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | loggingEndTIme | GenericIRPMan | O | | | agementConstDefs::IRPTime | | | | loggingEndTimeAsked | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notificationCategories | Gene | O | | | ricIRPManagementConstDefs | | | | ::NotificationCategorySet | | | | notificationCategorySet | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | filter | GenericIRPManag | O | | | ementConstDefs::StringOpt | | | | filter | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | logManagerToken | NotificationLogIRPCons | O | | | tDefs::LogManagerTokenOpt | | | | logManagerToken; | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | loggingEndTime | GenericIRPManagementConst | O | | | Defs::loggingEndTimeGiven | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | GenericIRPMa | M | | | nagementConstDefs::Signal | | | | | | | | Exceptions: | | | | | | | | SubscribeLog, | | | | GenericIRPManagement | | | | System::InvalidParameter, | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyste | | | | m::ParameterNotSupported, | | | | GenericIRPManagementS | | | | ystem::ValueNotSupported, | | | | InvalidLogSubscriptionId, | | | | UnknownLogManagerToken. | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 5.2.2: Mapping from IS unsubscribeLog parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | logSubscriptionId | NotificationLogIRPCon | M | | | stDefs::LogSubscriptionId | | | | logSubscriptionId | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | logManagerToken | NotificationLogIRPCons | O | | | tDefs::LogManagerTokenOpt | | | | logManagerToken | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | GenericIRPMa | M | | | nagementConstDefs::Signal | | | | | | | | Exceptions: | | | | | | | | UnsubscribeLog, | | | | GenericIRPManagement | | | | System::InvalidParameter, | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyste | | | | m::ParameterNotSupported, | | | | UnknownLogSubscriptionId, | | | | UnknownLogManagerToken). | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 5.2.3: Mapping from IS exportLogRecords parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | logSubscriptionId | NotificationLogIRPCon | M | | | stDefs::LogSubscriptionId | | | | logSubscriptionId | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notificationCategories | Notif | O | | | icationLogIRPConstDefs::N | | | | otificationCategorySetOpt | | | | notificationCategorySet | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | filter | GenericIRPManag | O | | | ementConstDefs::StringOpt | | | | filter | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | invocationId | string invocationId | M | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | GenericIRPMa | M | | | nagementConstDefs::Signal | | | | | | | | Exceptions: | | | | | | | | ExportLogRecords, | | | | GenericIRPManagement | | | | System::InvalidParameter, | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyste | | | | m::ParameterNotSupported, | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported, | | | | UnknownLogSubscriptionId. | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 5.2.4: Mapping from IS getLogRecords parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | logSubscriptionId | NotificationLogIRPCon | M | | | stDefs::LogSubscriptionId | | | | logSubscriptionId | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notificationCategories | Notif | O | | | icationLogIRPConstDefs::N | | | | otificationCategorySetOpt | | | | notificationCategories, | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | filter | GenericIRPManag | O | | | ementConstDefs::StringOpt | | | | filter | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | getLogRecordsResult | Some or all of the | M | | | information contained in | | | | getLogRecordsResult will | | | | be returned via the | | | | return value of type | | | | DsLogAdmin::RecordList. | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exceptions: | M | | | | | | | GetLogRecords, | | | | GenericIRPManagement | | | | System::InvalidParameter, | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyste | | | | m::ParameterNotSupported, | | | | GenericIRPManagementS | | | | ystem::ValueNotSupported, | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported, | | | | UnknownLogSubscriptionId. | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 5.2.5: Mapping from IS getLogSubscriptionIds parameters to SS
equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | logSubscriptionIds | return value of type | M | | | DsLogAdmin::LogIdList | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exceptions: | M | | | | | | | GetLogSubscriptionIds, | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported. | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 5.2.6: Mapping from IS getLogSubscriptionStatus parameters to SS
equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | logSubscriptionId | NotificationLogIRPCon | M | | | stDefs::LogSubscriptionId | | | | logSubscriptionId | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | logAttributeList | NotificationLogIRPCo | M | | | nstDefs::LogAttributeList | | | | logAttributeList | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | GenericIRPMa | M | | | nagementConstDefs::Signal | | | | | | | | Exceptions: | | | | | | | | GetLogSubscriptionStatus, | | | | GenericIRPManagement | | | | System::InvalidParameter, | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported. | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
## 5.3 Notification parameter mapping
3GPP TS 32.332 [6] defines semantics of parameters carried in notifications.
The following tables indicate the mapping of these parameters to their OMG
CORBA Structured Event (defined in OMG Notification Service [1]) equivalents.
The composition of OMG Structured Event, as defined in the OMG Notification
Service [1], is:
Header
Fixed Header
domain_name
type_name
event_name
Variable Header
Body
filterable_body_fields
remaining_body
The following tables list all OMG Structured Event attributes in the second
column. The first column identifies the 3GPP TS 32.332 [6] defined
notification parameters.
Table 5.3.1: Mapping for notifyLogSubscribed
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | IS Parameters | OMG CORBA | Qualifier | Comment | | | Structured | | | | | Event attribute | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | domain_name | M | It carries the | | corresponding | | | IRP document | | IS parameter. | | | version number | | | | | string. See | | | | | sub-clause 3.3. | | | | | | | | | | It indicates | | | | | the syntax and | | | | | semantics of | | | | | the Structured | | | | | Event as | | | | | defined by this | | | | | specification. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | n | type_name | M | This is the | | otificationType | | | Not | | | | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | Notify | | | | | LogSubscribed:: | | | | | NOTIFY_ | | | | | LOG_SUBSRIBED. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | event_name | M | Null-string | | corresponding | | | | | IS parameter. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | variable Header | | | | corresponding | | | | | IS parameter. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | objectClass, | One NV (note 1) | M | Name of NV pair | | objectInstance | pair of | | is the | | | filterabl | | Notificatio | | | e_body_fields | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | MANAGED_OB | | | | | JECT_INSTANCE. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notificationId | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | NO | | | | | TIFICATION_ID. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a long. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | eventTime | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | EVENT_TIME. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is of type | | | | | GenericIR | | | | | PManagementCons | | | | | tDefs::IRPTime. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | systemDN | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | SYSTEM_DN | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | lo | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | gSubscriptionId | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | Not | | | | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | NotifyLogSubs | | | | | cribed::LOG_SU | | | | | BSCRIPTION_ID. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is of type | | | | | No | | | | | tificationLogIR | | | | | PConstDefs::Log | | | | | SubscriptionId. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | loggingEndTime | One NV pair of | O | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | NotificationL | | | | | ogIRPNotificati | | | | | ons::NotifyLogS | | | | | ubscribed::LOGG | | | | | ING_END_TIME. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notific | One NV pair of | O | Name of NV pair | | ationCategories | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | Not | | | | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | N | | | | | otifyLogSubscri | | | | | bed::NOTIFICATI | | | | | ON_CATEGORIES. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is of type | | | | | Gen | | | | | ericIRPManageme | | | | | ntConstDefs::Ve | | | | | rsionNumberSet. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | filter | One NV pair of | O | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is | | | | | not | | | | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | Notify | | | | | LogSubscribed:: | | | | | FILTER | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | NOTE: NV stands | | | | | for name-value | | | | | pair. Order | | | | | arrangement of | | | | | NV pairs is not | | | | | significant. | | | | | The name of | | | | | NV-pair is | | | | | always encoded | | | | | in string. This | | | | | note is | | | | | applicable to | | | | | all NV-pairs | | | | | and all mapping | | | | | tables for all | | | | | notifications. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
Table 5.3.2: Mapping for notifyLogUnsubscribed
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | IS Parameters | OMG CORBA | Qualifier | Comment | | | Structured | | | | | Event attribute | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | domain_name | M | It carries the | | corresponding | | | IRP document | | IS parameter. | | | version number | | | | | string. See | | | | | sub-clause 3.3. | | | | | | | | | | It indicates | | | | | the syntax and | | | | | semantics of | | | | | the Structured | | | | | Event as | | | | | defined by this | | | | | specification. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | n | type_name | M | This is the | | otificationType | | | Not | | | | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | Notify | | | | | LogSubscribed:: | | | | | NOTIFY_LOG | | | | | _UNSUBSCRIBED. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | event_name | M | Null-string. | | corresponding | | | | | IS parameter. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | variable Header | | | | corresponding | | | | | IS parameter. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | objectClass, | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | objectInstance | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | MANAGED_OB | | | | | JECT_INSTANCE. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notificationId | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | NO | | | | | TIFICATION_ID. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a long. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | eventTime | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | One NV pair of | | is the | | | filterabl | | Notificatio | | | e_body_fields | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | EVENT_TIME. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | IRPTime of | | | | | module | | | | | GenericIRPManag | | | | | ementConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | systemDN | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | SYSTEM_DN | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | lo | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | gSubscriptionId | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | Not | | | (editor note) | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | Notify | | | | | LogSubscribed:: | | | | | LOG_SU | | | | | BSCRIPTION_ID. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is of type | | | | | No | | | | | tificationLogIR | | | | | PConstDefs::Log | | | | | SubscriptionId. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
Editor note: The placement of this parameter in filterable_body_fields so that
it is filterable is not yet aligned with current IS and require further
discussion.
Table 5.3.3: Mapping for notifyOccupancyLevelCrossed
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | IS Parameters | OMG CORBA | Qualifier | Comment | | | Structured | | | | | Event attribute | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | domain_name | M | It carries the | | corresponding | | | IRP document | | IS parameter. | | | version number | | | | | string. See | | | | | sub-clause 3.3. | | | | | | | | | | It indicates | | | | | the syntax and | | | | | semantics of | | | | | the Structured | | | | | Event as | | | | | defined by this | | | | | specification. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | n | type_name | M | This is the | | otificationType | | | Not | | | | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | Notify | | | | | LogSubscribed:: | | | | | NOTIFY_L | | | | | OG_OCCUPANCY_ | | | | | LEVEL_CROSSED. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | event_name | M | Null-string | | corresponding | | | | | IS parameter | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | variable Header | | | | corresponding | | | | | IS parameter. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | objectClass, | One NV pair of | M | NV stands for | | objectInstance | filterabl | | name-value | | | e_body_fields | | pair. Order | | | | | arrangement of | | | | | NV pairs is not | | | | | significant. | | | | | The name of | | | | | NV-pair is | | | | | always encoded | | | | | in string. | | | | | | | | | | Name of NV pair | | | | | is the | | | | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | MANAGED_OB | | | | | JECT_INSTANCE. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notificationId | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | NO | | | | | TIFICATION_ID. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a long. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | eventTime | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | EVENT_TIME. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | IRPTime of | | | | | module | | | | | GenericIRPManag | | | | | ementConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | systemDN | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | SYSTEM_DN | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | lo | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | gSubscriptionId | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | Not | | | | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | Notify | | | | | LogSubscribed:: | | | | | LOG_SU | | | | | BSCRIPTION_ID. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is of type | | | | | No | | | | | tificationLogIR | | | | | PConstDefs::Log | | | | | SubscriptionId. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | curren | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | tOccupancyLevel | One NV pair of | | is the | | | filterabl | | Not | | | e_body_fields | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | Notify | | | | | LogSubscribed:: | | | | | CURRENT_OC | | | | | CUPANCY_LEVEL. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is an | | | | | unsigned short | | | | | (i.e. | | | | | DsLogAdmin:: | | | | | Threshold). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | logFullAction | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | Not | | | | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | Notify | | | | | LogSubscribed:: | | | | | LOG | | | | | _FULL_ACTION. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is of type | | | | | NotificationLo | | | | | gIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Log | | | | | FullActionType. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
Table 5.3.4: Mapping for notifyLoggingResumed
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | IS Parameters | OMG CORBA | Qualifier | Comment | | | Structured | | | | | Event attribute | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | domain_name | M | It carries the | | corresponding | | | IRP document | | IS parameter. | | | version number | | | | | string. See | | | | | sub-clause 3.3. | | | | | | | | | | It indicates | | | | | the syntax and | | | | | semantics of | | | | | the Structured | | | | | Event as | | | | | defined by this | | | | | specification. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | n | type_name | M | This is the | | otificationType | | | Not | | | | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | Notify | | | | | LogSubscribed:: | | | | | NOTIFY_ | | | | | LOG_SUBSRIBED. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | event_name | M | Null-string | | corresponding | | | | | IS parameter. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | variable Header | | | | corresponding | | | | | IS parameter. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | objectClass, | One NV (note 1) | M | Name of NV pair | | objectInstance | pair of | | is the | | | filterabl | | Notificatio | | | e_body_fields | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | MANAGED_OB | | | | | JECT_INSTANCE. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notificationId | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | NO | | | | | TIFICATION_ID. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a long. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | eventTime | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | EVENT_TIME. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is of type | | | | | GenericIR | | | | | PManagementCons | | | | | tDefs::IRPTime. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | systemDN | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | SYSTEM_DN | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | lo | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | gSubscriptionId | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | Not | | | | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | NotifyLogSubs | | | | | cribed::LOG_SU | | | | | BSCRIPTION_ID. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is of type | | | | | No | | | | | tificationLogIR | | | | | PConstDefs::Log | | | | | SubscriptionId. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | loggingEndTime | One NV pair of | O | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | NotificationL | | | | | ogIRPNotificati | | | | | ons::NotifyLogS | | | | | ubscribed::LOGG | | | | | ING_END_TIME. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notific | One NV pair of | O | Name of NV pair | | ationCategories | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | Not | | | | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | N | | | | | otifyLogSubscri | | | | | bed::NOTIFICATI | | | | | ON_CATEGORIES. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is of type | | | | | Gen | | | | | ericIRPManageme | | | | | ntConstDefs::Ve | | | | | rsionNumberSet. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | filter | One NV pair of | O | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is | | | | | not | | | | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | Notify | | | | | LogSubscribed:: | | | | | FILTER | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | NOTE: NV stands | | | | | for name-value | | | | | pair. Order | | | | | arrangement of | | | | | NV pairs is not | | | | | significant. | | | | | The name of | | | | | NV-pair is | | | | | always encoded | | | | | in string. This | | | | | note is | | | | | applicable to | | | | | all NV-pairs | | | | | and all mapping | | | | | tables for all | | | | | notifications. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
# 6 NotificationLogIRPNotifications Interface
OMG CORBA Notification push operation is used to realise the notification of
NotificationLogIRPNotifications. All the notifications in this interface are
implemented using this push_structured_event method.
## 6.1 Method push (M)
module CosNotifyComm {
...
Interface SequencePushConsumer : NotifyPublish {
> void push_structured_events(
>
> in CosNotification::EventBatch notifications)
>
> raises( CosEventComm::Disconnected);
>
> ...
}; // SequencePushConsumer
...
}; // CosNotifyComm
NOTE 1: The push_structured_events method takes an input parameter of type
EventBatch as defined in the OMG CosNotification module (OMG Notification
Service [1]). This data type is the same as a sequence of Structured Events.
Upon invocation, this parameter will contain a sequence of Structured Events
being delivered to IRPManager by IRPAgent to which it is connected.
NOTE 2: The maximum number of events that will be transmitted within a single
invocation of this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide configuration
parameter.
NOTE 3: The amount of time the supplier (IRPAgent) of a sequence of Structured
Events will accumulate individual events into the sequence before invoking
this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide configuration parameter as well.
NOTE 4: IRPAgent may push EventBatch with only one Structured Event.
###### ## Annex A (normative): IDL specifications
## A.1 IDL specification (file name \"NotificationLogIRPConstDefs.idl\")
// File: NotificationLogIRPConstDefs.idl
#ifndef _NOTIFICATIONLOGIRPCONSTDEFS_IDL_
#define _NOTIFICATIONLOGIRPCONSTDEFS_IDL_
#ifndef _DSLOGADMIN_IDL_
#define _DSLOGADMIN_IDL_
#include \
#endif // _DSLOGADMIN_IDL_
#include \"NotificationIRPConstDefs.idl\"
#include \"GenericIRPManagementConstDefs.idl\"
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
module NotificationLogIRPConstDefs
{
typedef DsLogAdmin::LogId LogSubscriptionId;
typedef DsLogAdmin::RecordId RecordId;
typedef DsLogAdmin::RecordIdList RecordIdList;
typedef string LogManagerToken;
/*
LogManagerTokenOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present; else absent.
*/
union LogManagerTokenOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: LogManagerToken value;
};
/*
IRPTimeOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present; else absent.
*/
union IRPTimeOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::IRPTime value;
};
typedef GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::VersionNumberSet
NotificationCategorySet;
/*
NotificationCategorySetOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present; else absent.
*/
union NotificationCategorySetOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: NotificationCategorySet value;
};
enum LogState { LOGGING, LOGFULL, STOPPED};
typedef DsLogAdmin::CapacityAlarmThresholdList
CapacityAlarmThresholdList;
typedef unsigned short LogFullActionType;
const LogFullActionType wrap = 0;
const LogFullActionType halt = 1;
/*
IteratorOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present; else absent.
*/
union IteratorOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: DsLogAdmin::Iterator value;
};
struct LogAttributes {
LogSubscriptionId logSubscriptionId;
GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::IRPTime loggingEndTime;
unsigned long long maxSize;
unsigned long long currentSize;
LogState logState;
unsigned long long logRecordCount;
NotificationIRPConstDefs::NotificationCategorySet notificationCategories;
string filter;
LogFullActionType logFullAction;
CapacityAlarmThresholdList occupancyLevels;
};
typedef sequence \ LogAttributeList;
};
#endif // _NOTIFICATIONLOGIRPCONSTDEFS_IDL_
## A.2 IDL specification (file name "NotificationLogIRPSystem.idl")
// File: NotificationLogIRPSystem.idl
#ifndef _NOTIFICATIONLOGIPRSYSTEM_IDL_
#define _NOTIFICATIONLOGIRPSYSTEM_IDL_
#include \"NotificationLogIRPConstDefs.idl\"
#include \"GenericIRPManagementSystem.idl\"
#include \
#ifndef _DSLOGADMIN_IDL_
#define _DSLOGADMIN_IDL_
#include \
#endif // _DSLOGADMIN_IDL_
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
module NotificationLogIRPSystem
{
/*
System fails to complete the method. System can provide reason
to qualify the exception. The semantics carried in reason
is outside the scope of this IRP.
*/
exception SubscribeLog { string reason; };
exception UnsubscribeLog { string reason; };
exception ExportLogRecords { string reason; };
exception GetLogSubscriptionIds { string reason; };
exception GetLogRecords { string reason; };
exception GetLogSubscriptionStatus { string reason; };
exception InvalidLogSubscriptionId { string reason; };
exception UnknownLogSubscriptionId {};
exception UnknownLogManagerToken {};
exception InvalidConstraint { string reason; };
interface NotificationLogIRP : GenericIRPManagementSystem::
GenericIRPManagement
{
GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::Signal subscribe_log (
in NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::LogSubscriptionId logSubscriptionId,
in NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::IRPTimeOpt loggingEndTimeAsked,
in NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::NotificationCategorySetOpt
notificationCategorySet,
in GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::StringOpt filter,
out NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::LogSubscriptionId
logSubscriptionIdOut,
out NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::LogManagerTokenOpt logManagerToken,
out NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::IRPTimeOpt loggingEndTimeGiven
)
raises ( SubscribeLog,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::InvalidParameter,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ParameterNotSupported,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ValueNotSupported,
InvalidLogSubscriptionId, UnknownLogManagerToken
);
GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::Signal unsubscribe_log (
in NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::LogSubscriptionId logSubscriptionId,
in NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::LogManagerTokenOpt logManagerToken
)
raises ( UnsubscribeLog,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::InvalidParameter,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ParameterNotSupported,
UnknownLogSubscriptionId, UnknownLogManagerToken);
GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::Signal export_log_records (
in NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::LogSubscriptionId logSubscriptionId,
in NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::NotificationCategorySetOpt
notificationCategorySet,
in GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::StringOpt filter,
out string invocationId
)
raises ( ExportLogRecords,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::InvalidParameter,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ParameterNotSupported,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::OperationNotSupported,
UnknownLogSubscriptionId);
// If some but not all of the information is returned via the return value
// RecordList, then the rest of the information is returned via the
// iterator. Otherwise, the iterator is absent.
//
DsLogAdmin::RecordList get_log_records(
in NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::LogSubscriptionId logSubscriptionId,
in NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::NotificationCategorySetOpt
notificationCategories,
in GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::StringOpt filter,
out NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::IteratorOpt iterator
)
raises ( GetLogRecords,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::InvalidParameter,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ParameterNotSupported,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ValueNotSupported,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::OperationNotSupported,
UnknownLogSubscriptionId);
DsLogAdmin::LogIdList get_log_subscription_ids()
raises ( GetLogSubscriptionIds,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::OperationNotSupported
);
GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::Signal get_log_subscription_status (
in NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::LogSubscriptionId logSubscriptionId,
out NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::LogAttributeList logAttributeList
)
raises ( GetLogSubscriptionStatus,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::InvalidParameter,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::OperationNotSupported
);
};
};
#endif // _NOTIFICATIONLOGIPRSYSTEM_IDL_
## A.3 IDL specification (file name "NotificationLogIRPNotifications.idl")
// File: NotificationLogIRPNotifications.idl
#ifndef _NOTIFICATIONLOGIRPNOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#define _NOTIFICATIONLOGIRPNOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#include \"NotificationIRPNotifications.idl\"
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
module NotificationLogIRPNotifications
{
interface NotifyLogSubscribed: NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify
{
const string NOTIFY_LOG_SUBSRIBED = \"x1\";
const string LOG_SUBSCRIPTION_ID = \"id\";
const string LOGGING_END_TIME = \"loggingEndTime\";
const string NOTIFICATION_CATEGORIES = \"categories\";
const string FILTER = \"filter\";
};
interface NotifyLogUnubscribed: NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify
{
const string NOTIFY_LOG_UNSUBSCRIBED = \"x2\";
const string LOG_SUBSCRIPTION_ID = \"id\";
};
interface NotifyLogOccupancyLevelCrossed:
NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify
{
const string NOTIFY_LOG_OCCUPANCY_LEVEL_CROSSED = \"x3\";
const string LOG_SUBSCRIPTION_ID = \"id\";
const string CURRENT_OCCUPANCY_LEVEL = \"level\";
const string LOG_FULL_ACTION = \"fullAction\";
};
interface NotifyLoggingResumed: NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify
{
const string NOTIFY_LOGGING_RESUMED = \"x4\";
const string LOG_SUBSCRIPTION_ID = \"id\";
};
};
#endif // _NOTIFICATIONLOGIRPNOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#