# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.341: \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\"
32.342: \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information
Service (IS)\"
**32.343: \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common
Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\"**
32.34**5:** \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible
Markup Language (XML) definitions\"
32.347: \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP): SOAP Solution
Set (SS)\"
The present document is part of a set of TSs which describe the requirements
and information model necessary for the Telecommunication Management (TM) of
3G systems. The TM principles and TM architecture are specified in 3GPP TS
32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
Network Elements (NEs) under management, element managers as well as network
managers generate various management information stored in file format. This
IRP is addressing how these file are exchanged through Itf-N as well as
certain aspects of file management and maintenance. It is anticipated that all
management functions (e.g. PM, Call Trace, CM) as well as associated IRP\'s
making reuse of capabilities provided by this File Transfer IRP.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Common Object Request Broker Architecture
(CORBA) Solution Set (SS) for the IRP whose semantics is specified in File
Transfer IRP: Information Service 3GPP TS 32.342 [7].
This Solution Set specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.342 V7.0.X.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.341: \"Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.311: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management: Requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.303: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request
Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.342: \"Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management: Information Service (IS)\".
[9] OMG TC Document telecom/98-11-01: \"OMG Notification Service\".
http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.341 [3] and the following
apply:
**IRP document version number string (or \"IRPVersion\"):** See 3GPP TS 32.311
[4].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
DN Distinguished Name
FT File Transfer
IDL Interface Definition Language
IS Information Service
NE Network Element
OMG Object Management Group
PM Performance Management
SS Solution Set
# 4 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of FileTransferIRP is specified in 3GPP TS
32.341 [3].
This clause specifies features that are specific to the CORBA SS.
## 4.1 Notifications
Notifications are sent according to the Notification IRP: CORBA SS (see 3GPP
TS 32.303 [5]).
The contents of the FileTransferIRP notifications are defined in the present
document.
## 4.2 Syntax for Distinguished Names and Versions
The format of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [6].
The version of this IRP is represented as a string (see also clause 3 for
versions).
# 5 Mapping
## 5.1 Operation and Notification mapping
FileTransferIRP: IS 3GPP TS 32.342 [7] defines semantics of operation and
notification visible across the FileTransferIRP. Table 1 indicates mapping of
these operations and notifications to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table 1: Mapping from IS Operations and Notification to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operations/ notification 3GPP TS 32.342 [7] SS Method Qualifier
listAvailableFiles list_available_files M fileDownloadIndication
file_download_indication O getIRPVersion (see note)
get_file_transfer_irp_versions M getOperationProfile (see note)
get_file_transfer_irp_operations_profile O getNotificationProfile (see note)
get_file_transfer_irp_notifications_profile O notifyFileReady
push_structured_events (see subclause 6.1) M notifyFilePreparationError
push_structured_events (see subclause 6.1) M NOTE: This operation is of
ManagedGenericIRP IOC specified in 3GPP TS 32.312 [8]. The FileTransferIRP IOC
of 3GPP TS 32.342 [7] inherits from it.
* * *
## 5.2 Operation parameter mapping
The FileTransferIRP: IS 3GPP TS 32.342 [7] defines semantics of parameters
carried in operations across the FileTransferIRP. The following tables
indicate the mapping of these parameters, as per operation, to their
equivalents defined in this SS.
Table 2: Mapping from IS listAvailableFiles parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | managementDataType | short | M | | | management_data_type | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | beginTime | FileTran | M | | | sferIRPConstDefs::UTCTime | | | | begin_time | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | endTime | FileTran | M | | | sferIRPConstDefs::UTCTime | | | | end_time | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | fileInfoList | FileTransferI | M | | | RPConstDefs::FileInfoList | | | | file_info_list | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Return value of type | M | | | FileTra | | | | nsferIRPConstDefs::Result | | | | | | | | Exception: | | | | | | | | ListAvailableFiles, | | | | InvalidTimes, | | | | ManagedGenericIR | | | | PSystem::InvalidParameter | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 3: Mapping from IS fileDownloadIndication parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | fileInfoList | FileTransferI | M | | | RPConstDefs::FileInfoList | | | | file_info_list | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Return value of type | M | | | FileTra | | | | nsferIRPConstDefs::Result | | | | | | | | Exception: | | | | | | | | FileDownloadIndication, | | | | InvalidFileInfoList, | | | | ManagedGenericIRPSys | | | | tem:OperationNotSupported | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 4: Mapping from IS getIRPVersion parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | versionNumberSet | Return value of type | M | | | ManagedGenericIRPCo | | | | nstDefs::VersionNumberSet | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exception: | M | | | | | | | G | | | | etFileTransferIRPVersions | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 5: Mapping from IS getOperationProfile parameters to SS equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | iRPVersion | ManagedGenericIR | M | | | PConstDefs::VersionNumber | | | | irp_version | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | operationNameProfile, | Return value of type | M | | operationParameterProfile | ManagedGeneri | | | | cIRPConstDefs::MethodList | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exception: | M | | | | | | | GetFileTran | | | | sferIRPOperationsProfile, | | | | ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported, | | | | ManagedGenericIR | | | | PSystem::InvalidParameter | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 6: Mapping from IS getNotificationProfile parameters to SS equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | iRPVersion | ManagedGenericIR | M | | | PConstDefs::VersionNumber | | | | irp_version | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notificationNameProfile, | Return value of type | M | | not | ManagedGeneri | | | ificationParameterProfile | cIRPConstDefs::MethodList | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exception: | M | | | | | | | GetFileTransfe | | | | rIRPNotificationsProfile, | | | | ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported, | | | | ManagedGenericIR | | | | PSystem::InvalidParameter | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
## 5.3 Notification parameter mapping
The FileTransferIRP: IS 3GPP TS 32.342 [7] defines semantics of parameters
carried in notifications. The following table indicates the mapping of these
parameters to their OMG CORBA Structured Event (defined in OMG Notification
Service [9]) equivalents. The composition of OMG Structured Event, as defined
in the OMG Notification Service [9], is:
Header
Fixed Header
domain_name
type_name
event_name
Variable Header
Body
filterable_body_fields
remaining_body
The following tables list all OMG Structured Event attributes in the second
column. The first column identifies the FileTransferIRP: IS 3GPP TS 32.342 [7]
defined notification parameters.
Table 7: Mapping for notifyFileReady
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | IS Parameters | OMG CORBA | Qualifier | Comment | | | Structured | | | | | Event attribute | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | domain_name | M | It carries the | | corresponding | | | IRP document | | IS attribute. | | | version number | | | | | string. See | | | | | subclause 3.1. | | | | | | | | | | It indicates | | | | | the syntax and | | | | | semantics of | | | | | the Structured | | | | | Event as | | | | | defined by the | | | | | present | | | | | document. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | n | type_name | M | This is the | | otificationType | | | ET_FILE_READY | | | | | of module of | | | | | FileTransf | | | | | erIRPNotifDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | event_name | M | It carries no | | corresponding | | | information. | | IS attribute. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | Variable Header | | | | corresponding | | | | | IS attribute. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | objectClass, | One NV pair of | M | NV stands for | | objectInstance | filterabl | | name-value | | | e_body_fields | | pair. Order | | | | | arrangement of | | | | | NV pairs is not | | | | | significant. | | | | | The name of | | | | | NV-pair is | | | | | always encoded | | | | | in string. | | | | | | | | | | Name of this NV | | | | | pair is the | | | | | MANAGED_O | | | | | BJECT_INSTANCE | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notificationId | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | N | | | | | OTIFICATION_ID | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a long. | | | | | See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | eventTime | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | EVENT_TIME of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | IRPTime. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | systemDN | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | SYSTEM_DN of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | fileInfoList | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | F | | | | | ILE_INFO_LIST | | | | | of interface | | | | | NotifyFileReady | | | | | of module | | | | | FileTransferIR | | | | | PNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | FileInfoList of | | | | | module | | | | | FileTransf | | | | | erIRPConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | additionalText | One NV pair of | O | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | A | | | | | DDITIONAL_TEXT | | | | | interface | | | | | NotifyFileReady | | | | | of module | | | | | FileTransferIR | | | | | PNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
Table 8: Mapping for notifyFilePreparationError
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | IS Parameters | OMG CORBA | Qualifier | Comment | | | Structured | | | | | Event attribute | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | domain_name | M | It carries the | | corresponding | | | IRP document | | IS attribute. | | | version number | | | | | string. See | | | | | subclause 3.1. | | | | | | | | | | It indicates | | | | | the syntax and | | | | | semantics of | | | | | the Structured | | | | | Event as | | | | | defined by the | | | | | present | | | | | document. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | n | Type_name | M | This is the | | otificationType | | | ET_FILE_PRE | | | | | PARATION_ERROR | | | | | of module of | | | | | FileTransf | | | | | erIRPNotifDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | event_name | M | It carries no | | corresponding | | | information. | | IS attribute. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | Variable Header | | | | corresponding | | | | | IS attribute. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | objectClass, | One NV pair of | M | NV stands for | | objectInstance | filterabl | | name-value | | | e_body_fields | | pair. Order | | | | | arrangement of | | | | | NV pairs is not | | | | | significant. | | | | | The name of | | | | | NV-pair is | | | | | always encoded | | | | | in string. | | | | | | | | | | Name of this NV | | | | | pair is the | | | | | MANAGED_O | | | | | BJECT_INSTANCE | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notificationId | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | N | | | | | OTIFICATION_ID | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a long. | | | | | See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | eventTime | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | EVENT_TIME of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | IRPTime. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | systemDN | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | SYSTEM_DN of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | fileInfoList | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | F | | | | | ILE_INFO_LIST | | | | | of interface | | | | | NotifyFileP | | | | | reparationError | | | | | of module | | | | | FileTransferIR | | | | | PNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | FileInfoList of | | | | | module | | | | | FileTransf | | | | | erIRPConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | reason | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the REASON | | | | | of interface | | | | | NotifyFileP | | | | | reparationError | | | | | of module | | | | | FileTransferIR | | | | | PNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | additionalText | One NV pair of | O | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | A | | | | | DDITIONAL_TEXT | | | | | of interface | | | | | NotifyFileP | | | | | reparationError | | | | | of module | | | | | FileTransferIR | | | | | PNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
# 6 FileTransferIRP Notification Interface
OMG CORBA Notification push operation is used to realise the notification of
FileTransferIRP Notifications. All the notifications in this interface are
implemented using this push_structured_event method.
## 6.1 Method push (M)
module CosNotifyComm {
...
Interface SequencePushConsumer : NotifyPublish {
void push_structured_events(
in CosNotification::EventBatch notifications)
raises( CosEventComm::Disconnected);
...
}; // SequencePushConsumer
...
}; // CosNotifyComm
NOTE 1: The push_structured_events method takes an input parameter of type
EventBatch as defined in the OMG CosNotification module (OMG Notification
Service [9]). This data type is the same as a sequence of Structured Events.
Upon invocation, this parameter will contain a sequence of Structured Events
being delivered to IRPManager by IRPAgent to which it is connected.
NOTE 2: The maximum number of events that will be transmitted within a single
invocation of this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide configuration
parameter.
NOTE 3: The amount of time the supplier (IRPAgent) of a sequence of Structured
Events will accumulate individual events into the sequence before invoking
this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide configuration parameter as well.
NOTE 4: IRPAgent may push EventBatch with only one Structured Event.
###### ## Annex A (normative): IDL specifications
# A.1 IDL specification (file name \"FileTransferIRPConstDefs.idl\")
//File: FileTransferIRPConstDefs.idl
#ifndef _FILE_TRANSFER_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#define _FILE_TRANSFER_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: FileTransferIRPConstDefs
This module contains commonly used definitions for FileTransferIRP.
================================================================
*/
module FileTransferIRPConstDefs
{
enum Result {OK, FAILURE};
typedef TimeBase::UtcT UTCTime;
enum LocationChoice {DIRECTORY, URL};
//The FileLocation may be a directory path or a URL
union FileLocation switch (LocationChoice)
{
case DIRECTORY: string file_location_directory;
/* e.g. \\\202.112.101.1\D:\user\performanceFiles\\\ */
case URL: string file_location_url;
/* e.g. ftp://nms.telecom_org.com/datastore/\ */
};
typedef unsigned long FileSize; //the unit is byte
typedef string FileCompression;
typedef string FileFormat;
struct FileInfo
{
FileLocation file_location;
FileSize file_size;
UTCTime file_ready_time;
UTCTime file_expiration_time;
FileCompression file_compression;
FileFormat file_format;
};
typedef sequence\ FileInfoList;
const short PM_MANAGEMENT_DATA_TYPE = 1; //Performance Management
const short CM_MANAGEMENT_DATA_TYPE = 2; //Configuration Management
const short IM_MANAGEMENT_DATA_TYPE = 3; //Inventory Management
const short TM_MANAGEMENT_DATA_TYPE = 4; //Test Management
const short CT_MANAGEMENT_DATA_TYPE = 5; //Subscriber & Equipment Trace
const short NL_MANAGEMENT_DATA_TYPE = 6; //Notification Log
const short CG_MANAGEMENT_DATA_TYPE = 7; //Charging
const short OT_MANAGEMENT_DATA_TYPE = 8; //Other Types
/*
Define the parameters specified in the notifyFileReady
and notifyFilePreparationError notifications.
*/
interface AttributeNameValue
{
const string FILE_INFO_LIST = \"FILE_INFO_LIST\";
const string ADDITIONAL_TEXT = \"ADDITIONAL_TEXT\";
const string REASON = \"REASON\";
};
};
#endif // _FILE_TRANSFER_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
# A.2 IDL specification (file name \"FileTransferIRPSystem.idl\")
//File: FileTransferIRPSystem.idl
#ifndef _FILE_TRANSFER_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
#define _FILE_TRANSFER_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
#include \
#include \
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: FileTransferIRPSystem
This module implements capabilities of FileTransferIRP.
================================================================
*/
module FileTransferIRPSystem
{
exception InvalidTimes { string reason; };
exception InvalidFileInfoList { string reason; };
/*
System fails to complete the operation. System can provide reason
to qualify the exception. The semantics carried in reason
is outside the scope of this IRP.
*/
exception ListAvailableFiles { string reason; };
exception FileDownloadIndication { string reason; };
exception GetFileTransferIRPVersions { string reason; };
exception GetFileTransferIRPOperationsProfile { string reason; };
exception GetFileTransferIRPNotificationsProfile { string reason; };
interface FileTransferIRP
{
/*
* IRPManager invoke this operation to get the files information
*/
FileTransferIRPConstDefs::Result list_available_files(
in short management_data_type,
in FileTransferIRPConstDefs::UTCTime begin_time,
in FileTransferIRPConstDefs::UTCTime end_time,
out FileTransferIRPConstDefs::FileInfoList file_info_list
)
raises (ListAvailableFiles, InvalidTimes,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
/*
* IRPManager invoke this operation to indicate completion of downloading files to IRPAgent
*/
FileTransferIRPConstDefs::Result file_download_indication(
in FileTransferIRPConstDefs::FileInfoList file_info_list
)
raises (FileDownloadIndication, InvalidFileInfoList,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported);
/**
* Return the list of all supported FileTransferIRP versions.
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumberSet get_file_transfer_irp_versions (
)
raises (GetFileTransferIRPVersions);
/**
* Return the list of all supported operations and their supported
* parameters for a specific FileTransferIRP version.
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::MethodList
get_file_transfer_irp_operations_profile (
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumber irp_version
)
raises (GetFileTransferIRPOperationsProfile,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
/**
* Return the list of all supported notifications and their supported
* parameters for a specific FileTransferIRP version.
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::MethodList
get_file_transfer_irp_notifications_profile
(
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumber irp_version
)
raises (GetFileTransferIRPNotificationsProfile,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
};
};
#endif // _FILE_TRANSFER_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
# A.3 IDL specification (file name \"FileTransferIRPNotifications.idl\")
//File: FileTransferIRPNotifications.idl
#ifndef _FILE_TRANSFER_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#define _FILE_TRANSFER_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#include \
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: FileTransferIRPNotifications
This contains the specification of notifications of FileTransferIRP.
====================================================================
*/
module FileTransferIRPNotifications
{
/**
* Constant definitions for the FileReady notification
*/
interface NotifyFileReady: NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify
{
const string EVENT_TYPE = \"notifyFileReady\";
/**
* This constant defines the name of the fileInfoList property,
* which is transported in the filterable_body fields.
* The data type for the value of this property is
* FileTransferIRPConstDefs::FileInfoList.
*/
const string FILE_INFO_LIST =
FileTransferIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::FILE_INFO_LIST;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the additionalText property,
* which is transported in the filterable_body fields.
* The data type for the value of this property is string.
*/
const string ADDITIONAL_TEXT =
FileTransferIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::ADDITIONAL_TEXT;
};
/**
* Constant definitions for the FilePreparationError notification
*/
interface NotifyFilePreparationError:
NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify
{
const string EVENT_TYPE = \"notifyFilePreparationError\";
/**
* This constant defines the name of the fileInfoList property,
* which is transported in the filterable_body fields.
* The data type for the value of this property is
* FileTransferIRPConstDefs::FileInfoList.
*/
const string FILE_INFO_LIST =
FileTransferIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::FILE_INFO_LIST;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the reason property,
* which is transported in the filterable_body fields.
* The data type for the value of this property is string.
*/
const string REASON =
FileTransferIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::REASON;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the additionalText property,
* which is transported in the filterable_body fields.
* The data type for the value of this property is string.
*/
const string ADDITIONAL_TEXT =
FileTransferIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::ADDITIONAL_TEXT;
};
};
#endif // _FILE_TRANSFER_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#