# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
32.341: \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Requirements\".
32.342: \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information
Service (IS)\".
32.343: \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object
Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
**32.345: \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible
Markup Language (XML) definitions\".**
32.347**:** \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP): SOAP
Solution Set (SS)\".
The present document is part of a TS-family which describe the requirements
and information model necessary for the Telecommunication Management (TM) of
3G systems. The TM principles and TM architecture are specified in 3GPP TS
32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
Network Elements (NEs) under management, element managers as well as network
managers generate various management information stored in file format. This
IRP is addressing how these files are exchanged through Itf-N as well as
certain aspects of file management and maintenance. It is anticipated that all
management functions (e.g. PM, Call Trace, CM) as well as associated IRPs
making reuse of capabilities provided by this File Transfer IRP.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the XML Definitions for the File Transfer IRP
(FTIRP) as it applies to Itf-N, in accordance with FT IRP IS definitions [3],
for usage with the SOAP Solution Set [6] as well as Notification Log IRP XML
Definitions [4].
This specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.342 V8.0.X.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.342: \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.335: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup Language (XML) solution
definitions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.331: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.347: \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
SOAP Solution Set (SS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], and 3GPP TS 32.331 [5] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
FT File Transfer
FTIRP File Transfer IRP
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
NL Notification Log
NRM Network Resource Model
UML Unified Modelling Language
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 FT IRP XML Definitions
## 4.1 FT IRP notifications XML definition structure
This section provides XML definitions of FT IRP notifications as defined in
3GPP TS 32.342 [3].
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="3.640972222222222in"}
Figure 1
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="3.6569444444444446in"}
Figure 2
NOTE: The use of XML schema key word \"sequence\" to support IS-defined set
(not sequence) is for the purpose of XML processor efficiency. This shall not
imply the use of \"sequence\" in other technology.
## 4.2 FT IRP XML Schema for notifications
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\**
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
## 4.3 FT IRP XML Schema for IOCs
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex A (informative): XML schema electronic files
The electronic files corresponding to the XML schemas defined in the present
document are available in native form in the following archive:
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32345/schema/32345-800-XMLSchema.zip
#