# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
> TS 32.351: \"Communication Surveillance (CS) Integration Reference Point
> (IRP): Requirements\";
>
> TS 32.352: \"Communication Surveillance (CS) Integration Reference Point
> (IRP): Information Service (IS)\";
>
> **TS 32.353: \"Communication Surveillance (CS) Integration Reference Point
> (IRP): Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\";**
The present document is part of a set of technical specifications defining the
telecommunication management (TM) of 3G systems. The TM principles are
described in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1]. The TM architecture is described in 3GPP TS
32.102 [2]. The other specifications define the interface (Itf-N) between the
managing system (manager), which is in general the network manager (NM) and
the managed system (agent), which is either an element manager (EM) or the
managed NE itself. The Itf-N is composed of a number of integration reference
points (IRPs) defining the information in the agent that is visible for the
manager, the operations that the manager may perform on this information and
the notifications that are sent from the agent to the manager. CS
(Communication Surveillance) IRP is one of these IRPs with special function.
To ensure the availability and reliability of the management, an automatic
surveillance of the communication between NM and the managed system are
required. CSIRP is defined as a capability to achieve this goal.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the CORBA Solution Set for the IRP whose
semantics are specified in TS 32.352 [6] Communication Surveillance IRP:
Information Service.
This Solution Set specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.352 V8.0.X.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.351: \"Telecommunication management; Communication Surveillance
(CS) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.311: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.352: \"Telecommunication management; Communication Surveillance
(CS) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.303: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request
Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
[8] OMG TC Document telecom/98-11-01: \"OMG Notification Service\".
http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/
[9] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.351 [3] and 3GPP TS 32.352
[6] and the following apply:
**IRP document version number string (or \"IRPVersion\"):** see 3GPP TS 32.311
[5].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
CS Communication Surveillance
CSIRP Communication Surveillance IRP
DN Distinguished Name
EM Element Manager
IRP Integration Reference Point
IOC Information Object Class
IS Information Service
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
SS Solution Set
# 4 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of CSIRP is specified in 3GPP TS 32.352 [6].
This clause specifies features that are specific to the CORBA SS.
## 4.1 Notifications
Notifications are sent according to the Notification IRP: CORBA SS (see 3GPP
TS 32.303 [7]).
The contents of the CSIRP notifications are defined in the present document.
## 4.2 Syntax for Distinguished Names and versions
The format of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [9].
The version of this IRP is represented as a string (see also clause 3 for
versions).
# 5 Mapping
## 5.1 Operation and Notification mapping
CSIRP: IS 3GPP TS 32.352 [6] defines semantics of operation and notification
visible across the CSIRP. Table 1 indicates mapping of these operations and
notifications to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table 1: Mapping from IS Operations and Notification to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operations/ notification TS 32.352 [6] SS Method Qualifier
getHeartbeatPeriod get_heartbeat_period M
setHeartbeatPeriod set_heartbeat_period O
triggerHeartbeat trigger_heartbeat M
notifyHeartbeat push_structured_event (See clause 6.1) M
getIRPVersion (see note) get_cs_irp_versions M
getOperationProfile (see note) get_cs_irp_operations_profile O
getNotificationProfile (see note) get_cs_irp_notification_profile O
NOTE: This operation is of ManagedGenericIRP IOC specified in 3GPP TS 32.312
[4].\  
The CSIRP IOC of TS 32.352 [6] inherits from it.
* * *
## 5.2 Operation parameter mapping
The CSIRP: IS 3GPP TS 32.352 [6] defines semantics of parameters carried in
operations across the CSIRP. The following tables indicate the mapping of
these parameters, as per operation, to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table 2: Mapping from IS getHeartbeatPeriod parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | heartbeatPeriod | CSIRPC | M | | | onstDefs::HeartbeatPeriod | | | | heartbeat_period | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Return value of type | M | | | CSIRPConstDefs::Result | | | | | | | | Exception: | | | | | | | | GetHeartbeatPeriod | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 3: Mapping from IS setHeartbeatPeriod parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | heartbeatPeriod | CSIRPC | M | | | onstDefs::HeartbeatPeriod | | | | heartbeat_period | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Return value of type | M | | | CSIRPConstDefs::Result | | | | | | | | Exception: | | | | | | | | SetHeartbeatPeriod, | | | | InvalidHeartbeatPeriod, | | | | Co | | | | nflictingHeartbeatPeriod, | | | | ManagedGenericIRPS | | | | ystem::ValueNotSupported, | | | | ManagedGenericIRPSyst | | | | em::OperationNotSupported | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 4: Mapping from IS triggerHeartbeat parameters to SS equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | managerIdentifier | CSIRPCon | M | | | stDefs::ManagerIdentifier | | | | manager_identifier | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Return value of type | M | | | CSIRPConstDefs::Result | | | | | | | | Exception: | | | | | | | | TriggerHeartbeat, | | | | InvalidManagerIdentifier | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | NOTE: For CORBA SS, the | | | | managerIdentifier of | | | | triggerHeartbeat | | | | operation shall be mapped | | | | to managerReference which | | | | is same as what | | | | IRPManager used to | | | | subscribe notifications | | | | [7]. | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 5: Mapping from IS getIRPVersion parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | versionNumberSet | Return value of type | M | | | ManagedGenericIRPCo | | | | nstDefs::VersionNumberSet | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exception: | M | | | | | | | GetCSIRPVersions | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 6: Mapping from IS getOperationProfile parameters to SS equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | iRPVersion | ManagedGenericIR | M | | | PConstDefs::VersionNumber | | | | irp_version | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | operationNameProfile, | Return value of type | M | | operationParameterProfile | ManagedGeneri | | | | cIRPConstDefs::MethodList | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exception: | M | | | | | | | G | | | | etCSIRPOperationsProfile, | | | | ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported, | | | | ManagedGenericIR | | | | PSystem::InvalidParameter | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 7: Mapping from IS getNotificationProfile parameters to SS equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | iRPVersion | ManagedGenericIR | M | | | PConstDefs::VersionNumber | | | | irp_version | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notificationNameProfile, | Return value of type | M | | not | ManagedGeneri | | | ificationParameterProfile | cIRPConstDefs::MethodList | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exception: | M | | | | | | | Get | | | | CSIRPNotificationProfile, | | | | ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported, | | | | ManagedGenericIR | | | | PSystem::InvalidParameter | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
## 5.3 Notification parameter mapping
The semantics of parameters carried in notifications are defined in CSIRP IS
(3GPP TS 32.352 [6]).
Table 8 indicates the mapping of these parameters to their OMG CORBA
Structured Event [8] equivalents.
The composition of OMG Structured Event, as defined in [8] is:
> Header
>
> Fixed Header
>
> domain_name
>
> type_name
>
> event_name
>
> Variable Header
>
> Body
>
> filterable_body_fields
>
> remaining_body
Table 8 lists in the second column all OMG Structured Event attributes. The
first column identifies the notification parameters defined in CSIRP IS (3GPP
TS 32.352 [6]).
Table 8: Mapping for notifyHeartBeat
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | IS Parameters | OMG CORBA | Qualifier | Comment | | | Structured | | | | | Event attribute | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | domain_name | M | It carries the | | corresponding | | | IRP document | | IS attribute. | | | version number | | | | | string. See | | | | | clause 3.1. | | | | | | | | | | It indicates | | | | | the syntax and | | | | | semantics of | | | | | the Structured | | | | | Event as | | | | | defined by the | | | | | present | | | | | document. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | n | type_name | M | This is the | | otificationType | | | ET_HEARTBEAT | | | | | of module of | | | | | CSIRPConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | event_name | M | It carries no | | corresponding | | | information. | | IS attribute | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | Variable Header | | | | corresponding | | | | | IS attribute. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | objectClass, | One NV pair of | M | NV stands for | | objectInstance | filterabl | | name-value | | | e_body_fields | | pair. Order | | | | | arrangement of | | | | | NV pairs is not | | | | | significant. | | | | | The name of | | | | | NV-pair is | | | | | always encoded | | | | | in string. | | | | | | | | | | Name of this NV | | | | | pair is the | | | | | MANAGED_O | | | | | BJECT_INSTANCE | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | [7]. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notificationId | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | N | | | | | OTIFICATION_ID | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a long. | | | | | See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | [7]. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | eventTime | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | EVENT_TIME of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | IRPTime. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | [7]. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | systemDN | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | SYSTEM_DN of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | [7]. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | heartbeatPeriod | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | HE | | | | | ARTBEAT_PERIOD | | | | | of interface | | | | | NotifyHeartbeat | | | | | of module | | | | | CSIR | | | | | PNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | CS | | | | | IRPConstDefs::H | | | | | eartbeatPeriod. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | triggerFlag | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | TRIGGER_FLAG | | | | | of interface | | | | | NotifyHeartbeat | | | | | of module | | | | | CSIR | | | | | PNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | CSIRPConstDef | | | | | s::TriggerFlag. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | locator | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | CHANNEL_ID of | | | | | interface | | | | | NotifyHeartbeat | | | | | of module | | | | | CSIR | | | | | PNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | CSIRPConstD | | | | | efs::ChannelId. | | | | | | | | | | This parameter | | | | | shall be mapped | | | | | to an | | | | | identifier of | | | | | channel. For | | | | | definition of | | | | | channel, see | | | | | OMG | | | | | Notification | | | | | Service [8]. | | | | | | | | | | The CHANNEL_ID | | | | | carry the same | | | | | meaning but may | | | | | or may not | | | | | carry the same | | | | | value used by | | | | | OMG defined | | | | | Channel ID. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | ma | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | nagerIdentifier | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | MANA | | | | | GER_IDENTIFIER | | | | | of interface | | | | | NotifyHeartbeat | | | | | of module | | | | | CSIR | | | | | PNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | CSIR | | | | | PConstDefs::Man | | | | | agerIdentifier. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
# 6 CSIRPNotification Interface
OMG CORBA Notification push operation is used to realise the notification of
CSIRPNotifications. All the notifications in this interface are implemented
using this push_structured_event method.
## 6.1 Method push (M)
module CosNotifyComm {
> ...
>
> Interface SequencePushConsumer : NotifyPublish {
>
> void push_structured_events(
>
> in CosNotification::EventBatch notifications)
>
> raises( CosEventComm::Disconnected);
>
> ...
>
> }; // SequencePushConsumer
>
> ...
}; // CosNotifyComm
NOTE 1: The push_structured_events method takes an input parameter of type
EventBatch as defined in the OMG CosNotification module (OMG Notification
Service [8]). This data type is the same as a sequence of Structured Events.
Upon invocation, this parameter will contain a sequence of Structured Events
being delivered to IRPManager by IRPAgent to which it is connected.
NOTE 2: The maximum number of events that will be transmitted within a single
invocation of this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide configuration
parameter.
NOTE 3: The amount of time the supplier (IRPAgent) of a sequence of Structured
Events will accumulate individual events into the sequence before invoking
this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide configuration parameter as well.
NOTE 4: IRPAgent may push EventBatch with only one Structured Event.
###### ## Annex A (normative): IDL specifications
# A.1 IDL specification (file name \"CSIRPConstDefs.idl\")
//File: CSIRPConstDefs.idl
#ifndef _CS_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#define _CS_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: CSIRPConstDefs
This module contains commonly used definitions for CSIRP.
=========================================================
*/
module CSIRPConstDefs
{
typedef unsigned short HeartbeatPeriod;
/*
If notifyHeartbeat is triggered by NM positively by invoking
triggerHeartbeat operation, the value of this parameter shall be IRPManager,
otherwise, it shall be IRPAgent.
*/
enum TriggerFlag {IRPManager, IRPAgent};
typedef string ManagerIdentifier;
typedef string ChannelId;
/*
It specifies whether the operation is success or failed.
*/
enum Result {SUCCESS, FAILURE};
/**
* This block identifies attributes which are included as part of the
* CommunicationSurveillanceIRP. These attribute values should not
* clash with those defined for the attributes of notification
* header (see IDL of Notification IRP).
*/
interface AttributeNameValue
{
const string HEARTBEAT_PERIOD = \"HEARTBEAT_PERIOD\";
const string CHANNEL_ID = \"CHANNEL_ID\";
const string TRIGGER_FLAG = \"TRIGGER_FLAG\";
const string MANAGER_IDENTIFIER = \"MANAGER_IDENTIFIER\";
};
};
#endif // _CS_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
# A.2 IDL specification (file name \"CSIRPSystem.idl\")
//File: CSIRPSystem.idl
#ifndef _CS_IRP_SYSYEM_IDL_
#define _CS_IRP_SYSYEM_IDL_
#include \
#include \
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: CSIRPSystem
This module implements capabilities of CSIRP.
=============================================
*/
module CSIRPSystem
{
/**
* The InvalidHeartbeatPeriod exception is used when the period
* value to be set by IRPManager is not a reasonable in IRPAgent\'s
* implementation. A very short period may cause IRPAgent to
* send many heartbeat notification in a short time, which may
* decrease the performance of IRPAgent. To prevent this,
* IRPAgent may set the lower limit period in its system
* implemntation. When the period to be set is shorter the
* lower limit period, IRPAgent may throw this exception
* and reject to set the period to new value.
* Note: set the period to zero must be allowed. The behaviour of
* setting period to zero pls see definition for Period.
*/
exception InvalidHeartbeatPeriod
{
unsigned short period_lower_limit;
string reason;
};
exception InvalidManagerIdentifier { string reason; };
exception ConflictingHeartbeatPeriod { string reason; };
/*
System fails to complete the operation. System can provide reason
to qualify the exception. The semantics carried in reason
is outside the scope of this IRP.
*/
exception GetHeartbeatPeriod { string reason; };
exception SetHeartbeatPeriod { string reason; };
exception TriggerHeartbeat { string reason; };
exception GetCSIRPVersions { string reason; };
exception GetCSIRPOperationsProfile { string reason; };
exception GetCSIRPNotificationProfile { string reason; };
interface CSIRP
{
/**
* IRPManager invokes this operation to obtain the current
* heartbeat period.
*/
CSIRPConstDefs::Result get_heartbeat_period(
out CSIRPConstDefs::HeartbeatPeriod heartbeat_period
)
raises (GetHeartbeatPeriod);
/**
* IRPManager invokes this operation to set the heartbeatPeriod.
* If the heartbeatPeriod is modified by one IRPManager, a
* notifyHeartbeat notification should be emitted
* immediately to all the subscribed IRPManagers to indicate
* the new heartbeatPeriod. If the heartbeatPeriod is set to
* zero, one notifyHeartbeat notification will be
* emitted immediately and no more
* notifications unless the heartbeatPeriod is modified again.
*/
CSIRPConstDefs::Result set_heartbeat_period(
in CSIRPConstDefs::HeartbeatPeriod heartbeat_period
)
raises (SetHeartbeatPeriod,
ConflictingHeartbeatPeriod,
InvalidHeartbeatPeriod,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::ValueNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported);
/*
* IRPManager invoke this operation to trigger ET_HEARTBEAT
* notification positively.
*/
CSIRPConstDefs::Result trigger_heartbeat(
in CSIRPConstDefs::ManagerIdentifier manager_identifier
)
raises (TriggerHeartbeat, InvalidManagerIdentifier);
/**
* Return the list of all supported CSIRP versions.
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumberSet get_cs_irp_versions (
)
raises (GetCSIRPVersions);
/**
* Return the list of all supported operations and their supported
* parameters for a specific CSIRP version.
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::MethodList get_cs_irp_operations_profile (
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumber irp_version
)
raises (GetCSIRPOperationsProfile,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
/**
* Return the list of all supported notifications and their supported
* parameters for a specific CSIRP version.
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::MethodList get_cs_irp_notification_profile (
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumber irp_version
)
raises (GetCSIRPNotificationProfile,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
};
};
#endif // _CS_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
# A.3 IDL specification (file name \"CSIRPNotifications.idl\")
//File: CSIRPNotifications.idl
#ifndef _CS_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#define _CS_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#include \
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: CSIRPNotifications
This module contains the specification of all notifications of CS IRPAgent.
============================================================================
*/
module CSIRPNotifications
{
/**
* Constant definitions for the FileReady notification
*/
interface NotifyHeartbeat: NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify
{
const string EVENT_TYPE = \"notifyHeartbeat\";
/**
* This constant defines the name of the period property,
* which is transported in the filterable_body fields.
* The data type for the value of this property
* is CSIRPConstDefs::HeartbeatPeriod.
*/
const string HEARTBEAT_PERIOD =
CSIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::HEARTBEAT_PERIOD;
/*
* This constant defines the name of the
* channelId property,
* which is transported in the filterable_body
* fields.
* The data type for the value of this property
* is CSIRPConstDefs::ChannelId.
*/
const string CHANNEL_ID = CSIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::CHANNEL_ID;
/*
* This constant defines the name of the
* triggerFlag property,
* which is transported in the filterable_body
* fields.
* The data type for the value of this property
* is CSIRPConstDefs::TriggerFlag.
*/
const string TRIGGER_FLAG = CSIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::TRIGGER_FLAG;
/*
* This constant defines the name of the
* managerIdentifier property,
* which is transported in the filterable_body
* fields.
* The data type for the value of this property
* is CSIRPConstDefs::ManagerIdentifier.
*/
const string MANAGER_IDENTIFIER =
CSIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::MANAGER_IDENTIFIER;
};
};
#endif // _CS_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#