# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
32.351: \"Communication Surveillance (CS) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Requirements\".
32.352: \"Communication Surveillance (CS) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".
32.353: \"Communication Surveillance (CS) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
**32.355: \"Communication Surveillance (CS) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
eXtensible Markup Language (XML) definitions\".**
The present document is part of a TS-family defining the Telecommunication
Management (TM) of 3G systems.
The TM principles are described in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1]. The TM architecture is
described in 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
The other specifications define the interface (Itf-N) between the managing
system (manager), which is in general the Network Manager (NM) and the managed
system (agent), which is either an Element Manager (EM) or the managed NE
itself. The Itf-N is composed of a number of Integration Reference Points
(IRPs) defining the information in the agent that is visible for the manager,
the operations that the manager may perform on this information and the
notifications that are sent from the agent to the manager. Communication
Surveillance IRP (CSIRP) is one of these IRPs with special function.
To ensure the availability and reliability of the management, an automatic
surveillance of the communication between NM and the managed system are
required. CSIRP is defined as a capability to achieve this goal.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the XML Definitions for the Communication
Surveillance IRP (CSIRP) as it applies to Itf-N, in accordance with CS IRP IS
definitions [3], for usage with the Notification Log IRP XML Definitions [4].
This specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.352 V8.0.X.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.352: \"Communication Surveillance(CS) Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.335: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup Language (XML) solution
definitions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.331: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], and 3GPP TS 32.331 [5] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CS Communication Surveillance
CSIRP Communication Surveillance IRP
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
NL Notification Log
NRM Network Resource Model
UML Unified Modelling Language
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 CS IRP XML Definitions
## 4.1 CS IRP notifications XML definition structure
This section provides XML definitions of CS IRP notifications as defined in
3GPP TS 32.352 [3].
{width="5.792361111111111in" height="2.375in"}
Figure 1
NOTE: The use of XML schema key word \"sequence\" to support IS-defined set
(not sequence) is for the purpose of XML processor efficiency. This shall not
imply the use of \"sequence\" in other technology.
## 4.2 CS IRP XML Schema for notifications
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
## 4.3 CS IRP XML Schema for IOCs
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex A (informative): XML schema electronic files
The electronic files corresponding to the XML schemas defined in the present
document are available in native form in the following archive:
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32355/schema/32355-800-XMLSchema.zip
#