# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
32.361: \"Entry Point (EP) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\"
32.362: \"Entry Point (EP) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information
Service (IS)\"
**32.363: \"Entry Point (EP) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object
Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\"**
32.36**5:** \"Entry Point (EP) Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible
Markup Language (XML) definitions\"
32.367: \"Entry Point (EP) Integration Reference Point (IRP): SOAP Solution
Set (SS)\"
The present document is part of a set of technical specifications defining the
Telecommunication Management (TM) of 3G systems. The TM principles are
described in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1]. The TM architecture is described in 3GPP TS
32.102 [2]. The other specifications define the interface (Itf-N) between the
managing system (manager), which is in general the Network Manager (NM) and
the managed system (agent), which is either an Element Manager (EM) or the
managed NE itself. The Itf-N is composed of a number of Integration Reference
Points (IRPs) defining the information in the agent that is visible for the
manager, the operations that the manager may perform on this information and
the notifications that are sent from the agent to the manager. EP (Entry
Point) IRP is one of these IRPs with special function.
It\'s difficult for an NM to discover all IRPs in the environment that there
are several managed systems and/or if there are multiple IRPs related to each
managed systems. This Entry Point is proposed to provide a convenient
mechanism for NM to discover the managed systems and their related IRPs.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the CORBA Solution Set for the IRP whose
semantics are specified in the Entry Point IRP: Information Service (3GPP TS
32.362 [6]).
This Solution Set specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.362 V8.0.X.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.361: \"Telecommunication management; **Entry Point (EP)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements** \".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.311: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.362: \"Telecommunication management; **Entry Point (EP)
Integration Reference Point (IRP):** Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.303: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request
Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
[8] OMG TC Document telecom/98-11-01: \"OMG Notification Service\".
http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/
[9] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation Q.816.1 Recommendation \"**CORBA based TMN services:
Extensions to support coarse‑grained interfaces\".**
[11] OMG TC Document telecom/98-12-09: \"CORBAservices: Common Object Services
Specification\". http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/
[12] ISO 8859-1: \"Information technology - 8-bit single-byte coded graphic
character sets - Part 1: Latin alphabet No. 1\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions defined in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.361 [3] and the following
apply:
**IRP document version number string (or \"IRPVersion\"):** See 3GPP TS 32.311
[5].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
DN Distinguished Name
EM Element Manager
EP Entry Point
EPIRP Entry Point IRP
IRP Integration Reference Point
IOC Information Object Class
IS Information Service
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
SS Solution Set
# 4 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of EPIRP is specified in 3GPP TS 32.362 [6].
This clause specifies features that are specific to the CORBA SS.
## 4.1 Notifications
Notifications are sent according to the Notification IRP: CORBA SS (see 3GPP
TS 32.303 [7]).
The contents of the EPIRP notifications are defined in the present document.
## 4.2 Syntax for Distinguished Names and versions
The format of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [9].
The version of this IRP is represented as a string (see also clause 3 for
versions).
# 5 Mapping
## 5.1 Operation and Notification mapping
EPIRP: IS (3GPP TS 32.362 [6]) defines semantics of operation and notification
visible across the EPIRP.\ Table 1 indicates the mapping of these operations
and notifications to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table 1: Mapping from IS Operations and Notification to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operations/ notification TS 32.362 [6] SS Method Qualifier getIRPOutline
get_irp_outline M getIRPReference get_irp_reference M releaseIRPReference
release_irp_reference M notifyIRPInfoChanges push_structured_event (See clause
6.1) M getIRPVersion (see note) get_ep_irp_versions M getOperationProfile (see
note) get_ep_irp_operations_profile O getNotificationProfile (see note)
get_ep_irp_notification_profile O NOTE: This operation is of ManagedGenericIRP
IOC specified in 3GPP TS 32.312 [4]. The EPIRP IOC of 3GPP TS 32.362 [6]
inherits from it.
* * *
## 5.2 Operation parameter mapping
The EPIRP: IS 3GPP TS 32.362 [6] defines semantics of parameters carried in
operations across the EPIRP. The following tables indicate the mapping of
these parameters, as per operation, to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table 2: Mapping from IS getIRPOutline parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | iRPVersion | ManagedGenericIR | M | | | PConstDefs::VersionNumber | | | | irp_version | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | supportedIRPList | EPIRPCo | M | | | nstDefs::SupportedIRPList | | | | supported_irp_list | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Return value of type | M | | | EPIRPConstDefs::Result | | | | | | | | Exception: | | | | | | | | GetIRPOutline, | | | | InvalidIRPVersion | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 3: Mapping from IS getIRPReference parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | managerIdentifier | EPIRPCon | M | | | stDefs::ManagerIdentifier | | | | manager_identifier | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | systemDn | EPIRPConstDefs::DN | M | | | system_dn | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | rDN | EPIRPConstDefs::RDN r_DN | M | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | iRPReference | string irp_reference | M | | | (stringified IOR) | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Return value of type | M | | | EPIRPConstDefs::Result | | | | | | | | Exception: | | | | | | | | GetIRPReference, | | | | ManagedGenericIR | | | | PSystem::InvalidParameter | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 4: Mapping from IS releaseIRPReference parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | managerIdentifier | EPIRPCon | M | | | stDefs::ManagerIdentifier | | | | manager_identifier | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | iRPReference | string irp_reference | M | | | (stringified IOR) | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Return value of type | M | | | EPIRPConstDefs::Result | | | | | | | | Exception: | | | | | | | | ReleaseIRPReference, | | | | UnknownIRPReference | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 5: Mapping from IS getIRPVersion parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | versionNumberSet | Return value of type | M | | | ManagedGenericIRPCo | | | | nstDefs::VersionNumberSet | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exception: | M | | | | | | | GetEPIRPVersions | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 6: Mapping from IS getOperationProfile parameters to SS equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | iRPVersion | ManagedGenericIR | M | | | PConstDefs::VersionNumber | | | | irp_version | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | operationNameProfile, | Return value of type | M | | operationParameterProfile | ManagedGeneri | | | | cIRPConstDefs::MethodList | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exception: | M | | | | | | | G | | | | etEPIRPOperationsProfile, | | | | ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported, | | | | ManagedGenericIR | | | | PSystem::InvalidParameter | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 7: Mapping from IS getNotificationProfile parameters to SS equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | iRPVersion | ManagedGenericIR | M | | | PConstDefs::VersionNumber | | | | irp_version | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notificationNameProfile, | Return value of type | M | | not | ManagedGeneri | | | ificationParameterProfile | cIRPConstDefs::MethodList | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exception: | M | | | | | | | Get | | | | EPIRPNotificationProfile, | | | | ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported, | | | | ManagedGenericIR | | | | PSystem::InvalidParameter | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
## 5.3 Notification parameter mapping
The EPIRP: IS (3GPP TS 32.362 [6]) defines semantics of parameters carried in
notifications. The following table indicates the mapping of these parameters
to their OMG CORBA Structured Event (defined in OMG Notification Service [8])
equivalents. The composition of OMG Structured Event, as defined in the OMG
Notification Service [8], is:
Header
Fixed Header
domain_name
type_name
event_name
Variable Header
Body
filterable_body_fields
remaining_body
The following table lists all OMG Structured Event attributes in the second
column. The first column identifies the EPIRP: IS (3GPP TS 32.362 [6]) defined
notification parameters.
Table 8: Mapping for notifyIRPInfoChanges
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | IS Parameters | OMG CORBA | Qualifier | Comment | | | Structured | | | | | Event attribute | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | domain_name | M | It carries the | | corresponding | | | IRP document | | IS attribute. | | | version number | | | | | string. See | | | | | clause 3.1. | | | | | | | | | | It indicates | | | | | the syntax and | | | | | semantics of | | | | | the Structured | | | | | Event as | | | | | defined by the | | | | | present | | | | | document. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | n | type_name | M | This is the | | otificationType | | | ET_I | | | | | RPINFO_CHANGES | | | | | of module of | | | | | EPIRPSystem. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | event_name | M | It carries no | | corresponding | | | information. | | IS attribute. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | Variable Header | | | | corresponding | | | | | IS attribute. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | objectClass, | One NV pair of | M | NV stands for | | objectInstance | filterabl | | name-value | | | e_body_fields | | pair. Order | | | | | arrangement of | | | | | NV pairs is not | | | | | significant. | | | | | The name of | | | | | NV-pair is | | | | | always encoded | | | | | in string. | | | | | | | | | | Name of this NV | | | | | pair is the | | | | | MANAGED_O | | | | | BJECT_INSTANCE | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [7]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notificationId | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | N | | | | | OTIFICATION_ID | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a long. | | | | | See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [7]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | eventTime | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | EVENT_TIME of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | IRPTime. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [7]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | systemDN | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | SYSTEM_DN of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [7]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | iRPDn | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the IRP_DN | | | | | of interface | | | | | Notif | | | | | yIRPInfoChanges | | | | | of module | | | | | EPIR | | | | | PNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | EPIR | | | | | PConstDefs::DN. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | changeMode | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | CHANGE_MODE of | | | | | interface | | | | | Notif | | | | | yIRPInfoChanges | | | | | of module | | | | | EPIR | | | | | PNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | EPIRPConstDe | | | | | fs::ChangeMode. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | additionalText | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | A | | | | | DDITIONAL_TEXT | | | | | of interface | | | | | Notif | | | | | yIRPInfoChanges | | | | | of module | | | | | EPIR | | | | | PNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
# 6 EPIRPNotification Interface
OMG CORBA Notification push operation is used to realise the notification of
EPIRPNotifications. All the notifications in this interface are implemented
using this push_structured_event method.
## 6.1 Method push (M)
module CosNotifyComm {
> ...
>
> Interface SequencePushConsumer : NotifyPublish {
>
> void push_structured_events(
>
> in CosNotification::EventBatch notifications)
>
> raises( CosEventComm::Disconnected);
>
> ...
>
> }; // SequencePushConsumer
>
> ...
}; // CosNotifyComm
1) The push_structured_events method takes an input parameter of type
EventBatch as defined in the OMG CosNotification module (OMG Notification
Service [8]). This data type is the same as a sequence of Structured Events.
Upon invocation, this parameter shall contain a sequence of Structured Events
being delivered to IRPManager by IRPAgent to which it is connected.
2) The maximum number of events that shall be transmitted within a single
invocation of this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide configuration
parameter.
3) The amount of time the supplier (IRPAgent) of a sequence of Structured
Events shall accumulate individual events into the sequence before invoking
this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide configuration parameter as well.
4) IRPAgent may push EventBatch with only one Structured Event.
###### ## Annex A (normative): IDL specifications
# A.1 IDL specification (file name \"EPIRPConstDefs.idl\")
//File: EPIRPConstDefs.idl
#ifndef _EP_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#define _EP_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: EPIRPSystem
*/
module EPIRPConstDefs
{
enum Result {OK, FAILURE};
/*
The RDN carries an optional instance class name and a mandatory
instance identifier. This type (a string) may contain 0 or 1
equal sign. If an equal sign is present, the substring before
the equal sign is the class name, and the substring after the
equal sign is the instance identifier. If the equal sign is
absent, the entire string is the instance identifier.
*/
typedef string RDN;
typedef string DN;
typedef sequence\ DNList;
/*
IRPManagementScopeOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present.
Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union IRPManagementScopeOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: DNList value;
};
/*
The IRPElement defines the structure to be returned as part of
get_irp_outline().
*/
struct IRPElement
{
RDN r_DN;
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumberSet irp_versions;
IRPManagementScopeOpt irp_management_scope;
};
/*
List of all IRPElement and their associated parameters.
*/
typedef sequence\ IRPList;
struct SupportedIRP
{
DN system_dn;
IRPList irp_list;
};
typedef sequence\ SupportedIRPList;
typedef string ManagerIdentifier;
enum ChangeMode {REGISTER, DEREGISTER, MODIFY};
/*
Define the parameters specified in
the notifyEpInfoChanges notification.
*/
interface AttributeNameValue
{
const string IRP_DN = \"IRP_DN\";
const string CHANGE_MODE = \"CHANGE_MODE\";
const string ADDITIONAL_TEXT = \"ADDITIONAL_TEXT\";
};
};
#endif // _EP_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
# A.2 IDL specification (file name \"EPIRPSystem.idl\")
//File: EPIRPSystem.idl
#ifndef _EP_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
#define _EP_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
#include \
#include \
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: EPIRPSystem
*/
module EPIRPSystem
{
exception InvalidIRPVersion { string reason; };
exception UnknownIRPReference { string reason; };
/*
System fails to complete the operation. System can provide reason
to qualify the exception. The semantics carried in reason
is outside the scope of this IRP.
*/
exception GetIRPOutline { string reason; };
exception GetIRPReference { string reason; };
exception ReleaseIRPReference { string reason; };
exception GetEPIRPVersions { string reason; };
exception GetEPIRPOperationsProfile { string reason; };
exception GetEPIRPNotificationProfile { string reason; };
interface EPIRP
{
/**
* The IRPManager uses this operation to request the EPIRP to
* return the outline information of the supported IRPs. The EPIRP
* shall return the outline information of all the IRPs supported by the
* IRPAgent that contains the EPIRP. The EPIRP may
* additionally return the outline information of all the IRPs supported
* by other IRPAgents.
*/
EPIRPConstDefs::Result get_irp_outline(
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumber irp_version,
out EPIRPConstDefs::SupportedIRPList supported_irp_list
)
raises (GetIRPOutline, InvalidIRPVersion);
/**
* The IRPManager uses this operation to request the EPIRP to return
* the stringified IOR of the IRP identified by system_dn and r_DN.
*/
EPIRPConstDefs::Result get_irp_reference(
in EPIRPConstDefs::ManagerIdentifier manager_identifier,
in EPIRPConstDefs::DN system_dn,
in EPIRPConstDefs::RDN r_DN,
out string irp_reference
)
raises (GetIRPReference,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
/**
* The IRPManager uses this operation to request the IRPAgent to
* release a specific IRP reference. Whether the IRP reference
* is really released or not in the IRPAgent is outside the
* scope of this document.
*/
EPIRPConstDefs::Result release_irp_reference(
in EPIRPConstDefs::ManagerIdentifier manager_identifier,
in string irp_reference
)
raises (ReleaseIRPReference,
UnknownIRPReference);
/**
* Return the list of all supported EPIRP versions.
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumberSet get_ep_irp_versions (
)
raises (GetEPIRPVersions);
/**
* Return the list of all supported operations and their supported
* parameters for a specific EPIRP version.
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::MethodList get_ep_irp_operations_profile (
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumber irp_version
)
raises (GetEPIRPOperationsProfile,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
/**
* Return the list of all supported notifications and their supported
* parameters for a specific EPIRP version.
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::MethodList get_ep_irp_notification_profile
(
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumber irp_version
)
raises (GetEPIRPNotificationProfile,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
};
};
#endif // _EP_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
# A.3 IDL specification (file name \" EPIRPNotifications.idl\")
//File: EPIRPNotifications.idl
#ifndef _EP_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#define _EP_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#include \
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: EPIRPNotifications
*/
module EPIRPNotifications
{
interface NotifyIRPInfoChanges: NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify
{
const string ET_IRPINFO_CHANGES = \"notifyIrpInfoChanges\";
/**
* This constant defines the name of the iRPDn property.
* The data type for the value of this property
* is DN.
*/
const string IRP_DN =
EPIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::IRP_DN;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the changeMode property.
* The data type for the value of this property is ChangeMode.
*/
const string CHANGE_MODE =
EPIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::CHANGE_MODE;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the additionalText property.
* The data type for the value of this property is string.
*/
const string ADDITIONAL_TEXT =
EPIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::ADDITIONAL_TEXT;
};
};
#endif // _EP_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
###### ## Annex B (informative): Convention when using INS to fulfill part of
EPIRP functions
The implementation of the EPIRP and in particular, the management of CORBA
object references within EPIRP, is not a subject matter for 3GPP
standardization.
ITU-T SG4 Framework for CORBA-Based Telecommunications Management Network
Interfaces (ITU-T Recommendation Q.816.1 [10]) uses OMG Interoperable Naming
Service (INS) [11] for the management of CORBA object references. Furthermore,
it specifies a convention to name and populate the CORBA object entries within
the INS.
This Annex notes that, in the event that an EPIRP implementation uses INS to
fulfill part of EPIRP functions, it is advantageous to populate the INS using
the ITU-T defined convention.
**Convention**
The OMG INS CORBA _name component_ (in short, called CORBA compound name) has
the following IDL definition:
> // IDL
>
> typedef string Istring;
>
> struct NameComponent {
>
> Istring id;
>
> Istring kind;
>
> };
Istring is a placeholder for a future IDL internationalized string. The id and
kind attributes must be composed of characters from the ISO 8859-1 [12]
character set, excluding the null character and other non-printable
characters. The strings cannot exceed 255 characters. The id attribute cannot
be an empty string but the kind attribute can be an empty string.
The CORBA compound name (see Name below) is defined as a sequence of name
components:
> // IDL
>
> typedef sequence\ Name;
The 3GPP defined DN (in short, called DN) of a managed object is represented
by the CORBA _compound name_. For example, a DN, quoted from 3GPP TS 32.300
[9], say
"DC=se.companyZ.lmc,Network=9,SubNetwork=1,IRPAgent=1,AlarmIRP.iRPId=2", shall
be represented by a sequence of 6 _name components_ where the _id_ and _kind_
of the first _name component_ shall be "se_companyZ_lmc" and "DC"
respectively. The CORBA _compound name_ , shall be:
* * *
index kind id 0 "DC" "se_companyZ_lmc" 1 "Network" "9" 2 "SubNetwork" "1" 3
"IRPAgent" "1" 4 "AlarmIRP.iRPId" "2" 5 "" "Object"
* * *
The CORBA _compound name_ , in stringified name form, shall be
"se_companyZ_lmc.DC/9.Network/1.SubNetwork/1.IRPAgent/2.AlarmIRP.iRPId/Object".
NOTE 1: DN appears in interactions (e.g. operations, notifications) across the
Itf‑N.
NOTE 2: The CORBA compound name is used internally with the IRPAgent (and its
INS) and does not appear in interactions across the Itf-N.
The use of the last row of the CORBA _compound name_ , i.e. kind == "" and id
=="Object", is in accordance to the convention standardized by ITU-T
Recommendation Q.816.1 [10]. According to convention standardized by ITU-T
Recommendation Q.816.1 [10], the use of index 0 to 4 inclusive is to indicate
the naming context of the object and the use of index 0 to 5 inclusive is to
indicate the object itself.
DN DC component is composed of multiple words separated by separator, i.e. a
dot. It is suggested that the applications (e.g. IRPAgent codes) that process
CORBA compound name and DN should map the dot, used as separator in DN DC
component, with underscore. This mapping is necessary because in the
stringified CORBA _compound name_ , the dot is used for the separation of _id_
and _kind_. This replacement rule also implies that underscore should not be
used as character of DC words.
#