# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
32.361: \"Entry Point (EP) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\"
**32.362: \"Entry Point (EP) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information
Service (IS)\"**
32.363: \"Entry Point (EP) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object
Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\"
32.36**5:** \"Entry Point (EP) Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible
Markup Language (XML) definitions\"
32.367: \"Entry Point (EP) Integration Reference Point (IRP): SOAP Solution
Set (SS)\"
The present document is part of a TS-family defining the Telecommunication
Management (TM) of 3G systems.
The TM principles are described in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1]. The TM architecture is
described in 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
The other specifications define the interface (Itf-N) between the managing
system (manager), which is in general the Network Manager (NM) and the managed
system (agent), which is either an Element Manager (EM) or the managed NE
itself. The Itf-N is composed of a number of Integration Reference Points
(IRPs) defining the information in the agent that is visible for the manager,
the operations that the manager may perform on this information and the
notifications that are sent from the agent to the manager. EP (Entry Point)
IRP is one of these IRPs with special function.
It is difficult for an NM to discover all IRPs in the environment that there
are several managed systems and/or if there are multiple IRPs related to each
managed systems. This Entry Point is proposed to provide a convenient
mechanism for NM to discover the managed systems and their related IRPs.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the Information Service (IS) part of the Entry
Point IRP (EPIRP).\ It describes the semantics of the information and the
interactions visible across Itf-N in a protocol independent way.\ The
information is specified by means of Information Object Classes (IOCs) and the
interactions by means of operations and notifications. The present document
does not specify the syntax (encoding) of the information.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Concept and requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.111-1: \"Telecommunication management; Fault management; Part
1: 3G fault management requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.361: \"Telecommunication management; **Entry Point (EP)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements** \".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management: Information Service (IS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.311: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management: Requirements\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions defined in
32.101 [1], 32.102 [2], 32.361 [6] and the following apply.
**IRPVersion** : See 3GPP TS 32.311 [9].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
DN Distinguished Name
EM Element Manager
EP Entry Point
EPIRP Entry Point IRP
IRP Integration Reference Point
IOC Information Object Class
IS Information Service
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NRM Network Resource Model
PM Performance Management
# 4 System Overview
## 4.1 System Context
The general definition of the System Context for the present IRP is found in
3GPP TS 32.150 [10] subclause 4.7.
In addition, the set of related IRP(s) relevant to the present IRP is shown in
the two diagrams below.
Figure 4.1: System Context A
Figure 4.2: System Context B
## 4.2 Compliance rules
For general definitions of compliance rules related to qualifiers
(Mandatory/Optional/Conditional) for _operations_ , _notifications_ _and_
_parameters_ (of operations and notifications) please refer to 3GPP TS 32.150
[10]
# 5 Information Object Classes (IOCs)
## 5.1 Information entities imported and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.622 [7], information object class, Top
Top 3GPP TS 32.622 [7], information object class, IRPAgent IRPAgent 3GPP TS
32.622 [7], information attribute, systemDN systemDN 3GPP TS 32.622 [7],
information object class, GenericIRP GenericIRP 3GPP TS 32.622 [7],
information attribute, iRPId iRPId 3GPP TS 32.622 [7], information attribute,
iRPVersion iRPVersion 3GPP TS 32.312 [8], information object class,
ManagedGenericIRP ManagedGenericIRP
* * *
## 5.2 Class diagram
### 5.2.1 Attributes and relationships
This clause introduces the set of Information Object Classes (IOCs) that
encapsulate information within the IRPAgent. The intention is to identify the
information required for the EPIRP implementation of its operations. This
clause provides the overview of all support object classes in UML. Subsequent
clauses provide more detailed specification of various aspects of these
support object classes.
{width="2.0944444444444446in" height="2.252083333333333in"}
### 5.2.2 Inheritance
{width="1.9256944444444444in" height="3.7840277777777778in"}
## 5.3 Information Object Classes (IOCs) definition
### 5.3.1 EPIRP
#### 5.3.1.1 Definition
The IOC EPIRP is used as an initial access point to the managed systems. This
interface implements the entry point management capabilities defined by the
present document. The IOC EPIRP inherits from the IOC ManagedGenericIRP
specified in 3GPP TS 32.312 [8]. How the NM gets the IRP Reference of the
EPIRP is outside the scope of the present document.
#### 5.3.1.2 Attributes
The IOC EPIRP does not have any own attributes, only those inherited from the
IOC ManagedGenericIRP.
# 6 Interface definition
## 6.1 Class diagram representing interfaces
The following diagram depicts the interfaces of the EPIRP IOC with its
corresponding operations and notifications.
{width="4.7444444444444445in" height="2.370833333333333in"}
## 6.2 Generic rules
  * **Rule 1:** each operation with at least one input parameter > supports a pre-condition valid_input_parameter which indicates > that all input parameters shall be valid with regards to their > information type. Additionally, each such operation supports an > exception operation_failed_invalid_input_parameter which is > raised when pre-condition valid_input_parameter is false. The > exception has the same entry and exit state.
  * **Rule 2:** Each operation with at least one optional input > parameter supports a set of pre-conditions > supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx where \"xxx\" is the > name of the optional input parameter and the pre-condition > indicates that the operation supports the named optional input > parameter. Additionally, each such operation supports an exception > operation_failed_unsupported_optional_input_parameter_xxx > which is raised when (a) the pre‑condition > supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx is false and (b) the > named optional input parameter is carrying information. The > exception has the same entry and exit state.
  * **Rule 3:** each operation shall support a generic exception > operation_failed_internal_problem that is raised when an > internal problem occurs and that the operation cannot be > completed. The exception has the same entry and exit state.
## 6.3 Interface EPIRPOperations (M)
### 6.3.1 Operation getIRPOutline (M)
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
The IRPManager uses this operation to request the EPIRP to return the outline
information of the supported IRPs. IRPManager could set a filter constraint on
the returned information according to specific requirements.
The EPIRP shall return the outline information of all the IRPs, including
itself and other EPIRP instances that it knows, supported by the IRPAgent that
contains the EPIRP.
The EPIRP may additionally return the outline information of all the IRPs,
including EPIRP instances, supported by other IRPAgents.
#### 6.3.1.2 Input parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | Type | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | iRPVersion | M | -- | It specifies an | | | | | IRPVersion that | | | | | IRPAgent shall | | | | | use when | | | | | constructing | | | | | its output | | | | | parameter | | | | | su | | | | | pportedIRPList. | | | | | | | | | | If this | | | | | parameter is | | | | | absent, then | | | | | all the | | | | | supported | | | | | IRPVersions | | | | | shall be used | | | | | to construct | | | | | its | | | | | su | | | | | pportedIRPList. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.3.1.3 Output parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | s | M | A sequence of | This parameter | | upportedIRPList | | elements. Each | will return a | | | | element | sequence of | | | | contains: | elements. | | | | | | | | | - systemDN (M) | The systemDN | | | | | (defined in | | | | - iRPList (M) | [7]) is the | | | | | Distinguished | | | | where iRPList | Name (DN) of | | | | is a sequence | the IRPAgent | | | | of elements. | that contains | | | | Each element | the IRPs | | | | is: | identified by | | | | | the related | | | | - rDN (M) | iRPList.\ | | | | | Note that this | | | | - | IRPAgent may or | | | | iRPVersionSet | may not be the | | | | (M) | same IRPAgent | | | | | that contained | | | | - | the EPIRP (that | | | | iRP | is responding | | | | ManagementScope | to this | | | | (O) | operation). | | | | | | | | | | The rDN | | | | | (relative | | | | | Distinguished | | | | | Name) contains | | | | | the class name | | | | | and the iRPId | | | | | of the IRP | | | | | instance. The | | | | | iRPId (defined | | | | | in [7]) is | | | | | the identifier | | | | | of a specific | | | | | Interface IRP | | | | | (e.g. AlarmIRP | | | | | 32.111‑1 [4], | | | | | PMIRP | | | | | 32.401 [3]) | | | | | contained by | | | | | the IRPAgent | | | | | identified by | | | | | the systemDN | | | | | sub-parameter. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | iRPVersionSet | | | | | (defined in | | | | | [8]) is the | | | | | set of | | | | | IRPVersions | | | | | supported by | | | | | the IRP | | | | | identified by | | | | | the rDN | | | | | sub-parameter. | | | | | IRPVersion is | | | | | used to | | | | | identify a | | | | | particular IRP | | | | | Solution Set | | | | | specification | | | | | defined in | | | | | [9] (see | | | | | note). | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | iRP | | | | | ManagementScope | | | | | parameter, when | | | | | present, shall | | | | | carry a list of | | | | | the DNs that | | | | | identify the | | | | | sub trees under | | | | | the management | | | | | of the IRP. | | | | | This parameter, | | | | | if present, | | | | | shall contain | | | | | no information | | | | | if the IRP is | | | | | EPIRP. | | | | | | | | | | In case there | | | | | is no supported | | | | | IRP, this | | | | | sequence shall | | | | | contain no | | | | | element. The | | | | | operation is | | | | | considered | | | | | successful. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Status | M | ENUM | An operation | | | | (Oper | may fail | | | | ationSucceeded, | because of a | | | | O | specified or | | | | perationFailed) | unspecified | | | | | reason. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | NOTE: Each | | | | | IRPVersion | | | | | number is a | | | | | version | | | | | supported by | | | | | the identified | | | | | interface IRP, | | | | | not a version | | | | | of a NRM IRP. | | | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.3.1.4 Pre-condition
The precondition must hold true before the operation is invoked.
iRPVersionIsValid
* * *
Assertion Name Definition iRPVersionIsValid The iRPVersion specified is valid.
* * *
#### 6.3.1.5 Post-condition
None.
#### 6.3.1.6 Exceptions
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | invalidIRPVersion | **Condition** : iRPVersionIsValid = FALSE | | | | | | **Returned information** : The response | | | parameter is returned | | | | | | **Exit state** : Entry state | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | operationFailed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
### 6.3.2 Operation getIRPReference (M)
#### 6.3.2.1 Definition
The IRPManager uses this operation to request the EPIRP to return an IRP
Reference for a specific version of a specific IRP, including EPIRP.
Whether IRP References are statically or dynamically allocated is outside the
scope of the present document.
#### 6.3.2.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information Type Comment managerIdentifier M -- It
carries the identifier of an IRPManager. systemDN M -- It carries the systemDN
(defined in [7]) of the IRPAgent containing the specific interface IRP xxxIRP
(e.g. AlarmIRP, PMIRP) needed by the IRPManager. rDN M -- It carries the class
name and the iRPId of the IRP instance. The systemDN (above) and this rDN form
the DN of the IRP instance whose IRP reference is requested by the IRPManager.
* * *
#### 6.3.2.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment iRPReference M -- This
parameter carries an IRP Reference for the specified IRPVersion of the
specified IRP. status M ENUM (OperationSucceeded, OperationFailed) An
operation may fail because of a specified or unspecified reason.
* * *
#### 6.3.2.4 Pre-condition
requestedParametersAreValid
* * *
Assertion Name Definition requestedParametersAreValid The systemDn and rDN are
valid and their combination is valid in a way that the EPIRP is aware of the
IRP instance and its associated IRPReference.
* * *
#### 6.3.2.5 Post-condition
None.
#### 6.3.2.6 Exceptions
+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | invalidRequestedParameters | **Condition** : | | | requestParametersAreValid = FALSE | | | | | | **Returned information** : The response | | | parameter and detailed reason are | | | returned | | | | | | **Exit state** : Entry state | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | operationFailed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false | | | or post-condition is false | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+
### 6.3.3 Operation releaseIRPReference (M)
#### 6.3.3.1 Definition
The IRPManager uses this operation to request the IRPAgent to release a
specific IRP Reference. Whether the IRP Reference is really released or not in
the IRPAgent is outside the scope of the present document.
#### 6.3.3.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information Type Comment managerIdentifier M -- It
carries the identifier of an IRPManager. iRPReference M -- It carries the
specific IRP Reference no longer needed by the IRPManager.
* * *
#### 6.3.3.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment status M ENUM
(OperationSucceeded, OperationFailed) An operation may fail because of a
specified or unspecified reason.
* * *
#### 6.3.3.4 Pre-condition
The precondition must hold true before the operation is invoked.
validIRPReference
* * *
Assertion Name Definition validIRPReference The iRPReference is valid.
* * *
#### 6.3.3.5 Post-condition
None.
#### 6.3.3.6 Exceptions
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | unknownIRPReference | **Condition** : validIRPReference = FALSE | | | | | | **Returned information** : The response | | | parameter is returned | | | | | | **Exit state** : Entry state | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | operationFailed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
## 6.4 Interface EPIRPNotifications (M)
### 6.4.1 Notification notifyIRPInfoChanges (M)
#### 6.4.1.1 Definition
The subscribed IRPManager instances are notified that the information
(management scope, IRP Reference, etc.) of one IRP, including itself and other
EPIRP instances, stored in EPIRP has changed. This behaviour of sending
notifyIRPInfoChanges shall cover the case when the EPIRP is installed in the
operating environment and the information of IRPs are entered into the EPIRP
via the EPIRP non-standardized local interface.
#### 6.4.1.2 Input Parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectClass | M, Y | EP | Notification | | | | IRP.objectClass | header - see | | | | | [5]. | | | | | | | | | | It shall carry | | | | | the class name | | | | | of the EPIRP. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectInstance | M, Y | EPIRP | Notification | | | | .objectInstance | header - see | | | | | [5]. | | | | | | | | | | It shall carry | | | | | the DN of the | | | | | EPIRP. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | notificationId | M, N | -- | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | [5]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | eventTime | M, Y | -- | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | [5]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | systemDN | C, Y | -- | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | [5]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n | M, Y | \"notifyI | Notification | | otificationType | | RPInfoChanges\" | header - see | | | | | [5] | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | iRPDN | M, N | -- | This is the DN | | | | | of the IRP | | | | | instance whose | | | | | information\ | | | | | (i.e., outline | | | | | information and | | | | | IRP reference | | | | | information) | | | | | registered with | | | | | EPIRP has | | | | | changed, | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | changeMode | M, N | ENUM {Register, | Register: EPIRP | | | | Deregister, | now holds the | | | | Modify} | outline | | | | | information and | | | | | IRP reference | | | | | information of | | | | | IRP whose DN is | | | | | in iRPDN. | | | | | | | | | | Deregister: | | | | | EPIRP now no | | | | | longer holds | | | | | any information | | | | | of IRP whose DN | | | | | is in iRPDN. | | | | | | | | | | Modify: EPIRP | | | | | has changed | | | | | some or all | | | | | information of | | | | | IRP whose DN is | | | | | in iRPDN. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | additionalText | O, N | -- | It can contain | | | | | further next | | | | | information for | | | | | this | | | | | notification. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.4.1.3 Triggering Event
##### 6.4.1.3.1 From-state
iRPInfoChange.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition iRPInfoChange The information of IRP (iRPVersionSet,
iRPManagementScope, iRPReference) stored in EPIRP changes.
* * *
##### 6.4.1.3.2 To-state
successEmitNotification
* * *
Assertion Name Definition successEmitNotification EPIRPAgent finished emitting
notifyIRPInfoChanges notification.
* * *
#