# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.371: \"Security Management concept and requirements\".
**32.372: \"Security Services for Integration Reference Points (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".**
32.373: \"Security Services for Integration Reference Points (IRP): Common
Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) solution\".
**32.375 \"Security Services for Integration Reference Points (IRP): File
integrity solution\".**
In 3GPP SA5 context, IRPs are introduced to address process interfaces at the
Itf-N interface. The Itf-N interface is built up by a number of IRPs and a
related Name Convention, which realize the functional capabilities over this
interface. The basic structure of the IRPs is defined in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1]
and 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].\ An IRP consists of IRPManager and IRPAgent. Usually
there are three types of transaction between IRPManager and IRPAgent, which
are: operation invocation, notification, and file transfer.
However, there are different types of intentional threats against the
transaction between IRPManagers and IRPAgents. All the threats are potential
risks of damage or degradation of telecommunication services, which operators
should take measures to reduce or eliminate to secure the telecommunication
service, network, and data.
The present document is applicable to the Interface IRP specifications. That
is to say, it is only concerned with the security aspects of
operations/notifications/file deployed across the Itf-N.
The present document introduces XML Signature mechanism to address File
Integrity security requirement defined in 3GPP TS 32.371 [4].
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the Security Services for IRP: File integrity
solution whose semantics are specified in 3GPP TS 32.372 [5].
This solution specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.372 V 8.0.X [5].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.301: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.371 \"Telecommunication management; Security Management concept
and requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.372: \"Telecommunication management; Security Service for IRP:
Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.311: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management: Requirements\".
[7] OMG CORBA Specification 02-12-06
[8] OMG CORBA Security Service Specification 02-03-11
[9] XML-Signature Syntax and Processing\ http://www.w3.org/TR/2002/REC-
xmldsig-core-20020212/
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.301 [3] and the following
apply:
**IRP document version number string (or \"IRPVersion\"):** see 3GPP TS 32.311
[6].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture (OMG)
EM Element Manager
IS Information Service
OMG Object Management Group
ORB Object Request Broker (OMG)
# 4 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of Security Service is specified in 3GPP TS
32.372 [5]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the File
integrity solution.
## 4.1 Principles of IRP Security Services
Figure 4.1 shows that Security Services are between IRP Application layer and
Transport layer. Security Attributes which are attached to network management
information are transferred between IRPManager and IRPAgent to address
Authentication, Authorization, Activity Log and file integrity requirements.
Figure 4.1 : Principles of IRP Security Service
The basic idea of these Security Services is as follows:
  * IRP Security Services on IRPManager side and IRP Security Services on IRPAgent side co-operate to provide Security Services for IRP.\ This avoids modifying IRPManager and IRPAgent much.
  * When the IRPManager and/or IRPAgent send network management information to each other, the IRP Security Service (on IRPManager and/or IRPAgent side) attaches Security Attributes to the network management information. The receiver works with the attached Security Attributes to implement the IRP security requirement.
The present document addresses File integrity solution by using the XML
Signature Mechanism defined by [9].
Table 4.1 identifies the use of File Integrity solution to realize File
Integrity Security Service.
Table 4.1 : File Integrity solution and Security Service relationship
* * *
                                                                                                                     Authentication Security Service   Authorization Security Service   Activity Log Security Service   File Integrity Security Service
File Integrity solution X NOTE: \"X\" indicates which CORBA solution exchanges
Security Attributes are relevant to which Security Service.
* * *
## 4.2 XML Signature Recommendation
This clause introduces the concept of XML Signature detailed in [9]. It is
used to transfer XML Signature over Itf-N to provide the File Integrity
Security Service.
Based on [9], data to be signed is canonicalized by using a specific method,
i.e. using a unique form to represent XML files with the same semantic content
but different text. The canonicalized data may be transformed before it is
digested by using a specific method. The digest value is encrypted by using a
specific signature method. The key information used to verify the signed value
of signed data may be included in the XML Signature.
As shown in [9], XML digital signatures are represented by the Signature
element which has the following structure (where \"?\" denotes zero or one
occurrence; \"+\" denotes one or more occurrences; and \"*\" denotes zero or
more occurrences):
\
\
\
\
(\
(\)?
\
\
\)+
\
\
(\)?
(\)*
\
# 5 Mapping
## 5.1 File Integrity Solution Mapping
### 5.1.1 Security Attribute Mapping
In File Integrity Solution scenario, XML Signature as Security Attributes is
exchanged over Itf-N accompanying the file(s) to be transferred.
Table 5.1: Mapping from IS Security Attribute to File Integrity Solution
Equivalents
* * *
IS IOC in 3GPP TS 32.372 [5] XML Signature Solution IOC Qualifier Signature
element Signature (defined in [9]) M
* * *
### 5.1.2 Operation Mapping
Editor\'s note: FFS.
# 6 Itf-N Security Service Behaviour
This clause describes some behaviour of IRPManager and IRPAgent not captured
by XML Schema in File Integrity Solution.
## 6.1 File Integrity Solution
This clause addresses how to use XML Signature to provide File Integrity
Security Service.
To Enable IRPManager and IRPAgent to use XML Signature, these two sides should
agree with Canonicalization Method, Transform Method, Digest Method, and
Signature Method before they start communication.\ Mandatory methods defined
in [9] should be supported by IRPManager and IRPAgent.
When an XML document instance is to be exchanged over Itf-N, the sender should
make sure the whole XML document instance should be signed. The corresponding
XML Signature should be held in the XML document instance.
When an XML document instance is received, the receiver should verify the XML
document instance by using the process defined in [9].
If the verification is successful, receiver works with the XML document
instance as normal; otherwise receiver should raise a security alarm if it is
IRPAgent or process the failure in a vendor specific way if it is IRPManager.
#