# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**32.371: \"Security Management concept and requirements\".**
32.372: \"Security services for Integration Reference Points (IRP);
Information Service (IS)\".
32.373: \"Security services for Integration Reference Points (IRP); Common
Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) solution\".
32.375 \"Security services for Integration Reference Points (IRP); File
integrity solution\".
In 3GPP SA5 context, IRPs are introduced to address process interfaces at the
Itf-N interface. The Itf-N interface is built up by a number of Integration
Reference Points (IRPs) and a related Name Convention, which realize the
functional capabilities over this interface. The basic structure of the IRPs
is defined in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [2]. IRP consists of
IRPManager and IRPAgent. Usually there are three types of transaction between
IRPManager and IRPAgent, which are operation invocation, notification, and
file transfer.
However, there are different types of intentional threats against the
transaction between IRPManagers and IRPAgents. All the threats are potential
risks of damage or degradation of telecommunication services, which operators
should take measures to reduce or eliminate to secure the telecommunication
service, network, and data.
By introducing Security Management, the present document describes security
requirements to relieve the threats between IRPManagers and IRPAgents.
As described in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1], the architecture of Security Management is
divided into two layers:
Layer A - Application Layer
Layer B - OAM&P transport network
The threats and Security Management requirements of different layers are
different, which should be taken into account respectively.
3GPP defines three types of IRP specifications, (see 3GPP TS 32.102 [2]). One
type relates to the definitions of the interface deployed across the Itf-N.
These definitions need to be agreed between the IRPManagers and IRPAgents so
that meaningful communication can occur between them. An example of this type
is the Alarm IRP.
The other two types (NRM IRP and Data Definition IRP) relate to the network
resource model (schema) of the managed network. This network schema needs to
be agreed between the IRPManagers and IRPAgents so that network management
services can be provided to the IRPManager(s) by the IRPAgent(s). An example
of this type is the UTRAN NRM IRP.
This Requirement specification is applicable to the Interface IRP
specifications. That is to say, it is concerned only with the security aspects
of operations/notifications/file deployed across the Itf-N.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines, in addition to the requirements defined in 3GPP
TS 32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], the requirements for Security Management
IRP.
The purpose of the present document is to specify the necessary security
features, services and functions to protect the network management data,
including Requests, Responses, Notifications and Files, exchanged across the
Itf‑N.
Telecommunication network security can be breached by weaknesses in
operational procedures, physical installations, communication links,
computational processes and data storage. Of concern here in the present
document is the security problems resulting from the weaknesses inherent in
the communication technologies (i.e., the 3GPP‑defined Interface IRPs and
their supporting protocol stacks) deployed across the Itf-N.
Appropriate level of security for a telecommunication network is essential.
Secured access to the network management applications, and network management
data, is essential. The 3GPP-defined Interface IRPs (and their supporting
protocol stacks), deployed across the Itf-N, are used for such access, and
therefore, their security is considered essential.
Many network management security standards exist. However, there is no
recommendation on how to apply them in the Itf-N context. Their deployment
across the Itf-N is left to operators. The present document and the
corresponding solutions identify and recommend security standards in the Itf-N
context.
The business case for secured Itf-N is complex as it does not relate to the
functions of the Interface IRPs (the functions are constant) but rather, it
relates to variants such as the cost of recovering from security breaks, the
probability of security incidents and the cost of implementing Security
Management, all of which differs depending on specific deployment scenarios.
The present document describes the security functions for a 3G network in
terms of Security Domains (subclause 4.1). Clause 5 defines the Itf-N Security
Management scope in terms of its context (subclause 5.1) and the possible
threats that can occur there are defined in clause 6. Clause 7 specifies the
Itf‑N security Requirements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions that, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] ITU‑T Recommendation M.3016 (1998): \"TMN security overview\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.102: \"3G Security; Security architecture\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation X.800: \"Security architecture for Open Systems
Interconnection for CCITT applications\".
> [6] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
> Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
ITU-T Recommendation X.800 [5], ITU-T Recommendation M.3016 [3] and the
following apply:
**access control:** prevention of unauthorized use of a resource, including
the prevention of use of a resource in an unauthorized manner, see ITU-T
Recommendation X.800 [5].
**accountability:** property that ensures that the actions of an entity may be
traced uniquely to the entity, see ITU-T Recommendation X.800 [5].
**audit:** See Security Audit.
**authentication:** See data origin authentication and peer element
authentication, see ITU-T Recommendation X.800 [5].
**authorization:** granting of rights, which includes the granting of access
based on access rights, see ITU-T. Recommendation X.800 [5]
**availability:** property of being accessible and useable upon demand by an
authorized entity, see ITU-T. Recommendation X.800 [5]
**confidentiality:** property that information is not made available or
disclosed to unauthorized individuals, entities, or processes, see ITU-T
Recommendation X.800 [5].
**credentials:** data that is transferred to establish the claimed identity of
an entity, see ITU-T Recommendation X.800 [5].
**cryptography:** discipline which embodies principles, means, and methods for
the transformation of data in order to hide its information content, prevent
its undetected modification and/or prevent its unauthorized us, see ITU-T
Recommendation X.800 [5].
**data integrity:** property that data has not been altered or destroyed in an
unauthorized manner, see ITU-T Recommendation X.800 [5].
**data origin authentication:** corroboration that the source of data received
is as claimed, see ITU-T Recommendation X.800 [5].
**denial of service:** prevention of authorized access to resources or the
delaying of time-critical operations, see ITU‑T Recommendation X.800 [5].
**digital signature:** data appended to, or a cryptographic transformation
(see cryptography) of a data unit that allows a recipient of the data unit to
prove the source and integrity of the data unit and protect against forgery
e.g. by the recipient, see ITU-T Recommendation X.800 [5].
**eavesdropping:** breach of confidentiality by monitoring communication, see
ITU-T Recommendation M.3016 [3].
**forgery:** entity fabricates information and claims that such information
was received from another entity or sent to another entity, see ITU-T
Recommendation M.3016 [3].
**Integration Reference Point (IRP):** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [6].
**IRPAgent:** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [6].
**IRPManager:** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [6].
**loss or corruption of information:** integrity of data transferred is
compromised by unauthorized deletion, insertion, modification, re-ordering,
replay or delay, see ITU-T Recommendation M.3016 [3].
**Operations System (OS):** indicates a generic management system, independent
of its location level within the management hierarchy.
**masquerade:** pretence by an entity to be a different entity, see ITU-T
Recommendation X.800 [5].
**password:** confidential authentication information, usually composed of a
string of characters, see ITU-T Recommendation X.800 [5].
**Peer Entity Authentication:** The corroboration that a peer entity in an
association is the one claimed, see ITU-T Recommendation X.800 [5].
**repudiation:** denial by one of the entities involved in a communication of
having participated in all or part of the communication, see ITU-T
Recommendation X.800 [5].
**security audit:** independent review and examination of system records and
activities in order to test for adequacy of system controls, to ensure
compliance with established policy and operational procedures, to detect
breaches in security, and to recommend any indicated changes in control,
policy and procedures, see ITU-T Recommendation X.800 [5].
**threat:** potential violation of security, see ITU-T Recommendation X.800
[5].
**unauthorized access:** entity attempts to access data in violation of the
security policy in force, see ITU-T Recommendation M.3016 [3].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
CS Communication Surveillance
DCN Data Communication Network
EM Element Manager
EP Entry Point
FT File Transfer
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service (see 3GPP TS 32.101 [1])
ITU-T International Telecommunication Union - Telecommunication
standardization sector
NE Network Element
NL Notification Log
NM Network Manager
NRM Network Resource Model
OAM&P Operations, Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning
OS Operations System
PM Performance Management
TM Test Management
TMN Telecom Management Network
UML Unified Modelling Language (OMG)
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
# 4 Security Management background
The objective of this clause is to provide the foundations for the development
of security within the management domain and scope of a third generation
mobile telecommunications network. This will be accomplished through the
establishment of the boundaries of security from the perspective of the
management subsystem of a 3G mobile telecommunications network. The definition
of the concepts of security objectives, security threats, and finally security
mechanisms and services are identified.
This clause gives an overall view of Security Management in general, before
entering clause 5 Security Management context and architecture discussion. The
general security mechanisms and services used by the management subsystem will
depend on the requirements defined in clause 7\. How they are used is out side
the scope of these requirements. Such aspects may be further specified in
corresponding IS specifications.
## 4.1 Security domains
Security within a telecommunications network is a vast functional area
covering most aspects and all components of a 3G system. To devise a solution
more manageable and easier to evolve, the total network security scope is
split into different and separate parts. For the present document purpose, the
security scope is partitioned into four different domains.
Figure 1: Security model/architecture
The **User domain** contains a set of security features that protects User
Equipment against attacks on radio interface and provides users with secure
access to subscribed services and applications. Examples of security features
in this user domain are:
  * The set of security features that provide users with secure access > to 3G services, and which in particular protect against attacks on > the (radio) access link;
  * The set of security features that secure access to mobile stations;
  * The set of security features that enable applications in the user > and in the provider domain to securely exchange messages.
The **Network domain** provides the set of security features that enable nodes
in the provider domain to securely exchange signalling data, and protect
against attacks on the wireline network. This domain covers protection of the
network, network elements and all internal (control and signalling) traffic
against security threats. The network elements can belong to a single operator
(intra-operator) or to different operators (inter-operator).
The **OAM &P domain** accommodates management tools to supervise all nodes of
a cellular network. The OAM&P domain security provides the protection of all
the operation and maintenance traffic, authentication of users, applications
and access control to the nodes. It protects the resources of network elements
and management applications from intentional and unintentional destructive
manipulation.
The **Security Management domain** comprises all activities to establish,
maintain and terminate the security aspects of a system. Examples of the
features covered by the Security Management domain are:
  * Management of security services;
  * Installation of security mechanisms;
  * Key management (management part);
  * Establishment of identities, keys, access control information, etc.;
  * Management of security audit trail and security alarms.
Using the above partitioned view, the scope of the present document is focused
on security requirements of the OAM&P domain and is not focused on
requirements of other domains. Furthermore, since the Itf-N operates within
the OAM&P domain, the scope of the present document is further \"narrowed\"
towards a component, namely the Itf-N component of the OAM&P domain.
For further explanation of the semantics of the general security terms
referred to in following subclauses 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4, refer to ITU-T
Recommendation X.800 [5]. It is not intended to repeat them here.
## 4.2 Security objectives
Security objectives are necessary in order to define the intended purpose of
security within a network. ITU-T Recommendation M.3016 [3] defines the
following objectives for security.
  * Confidentiality;
  * Data integrity;
  * Accountability;
  * Availability;
## 4.3 Security threats
A security threat is defined by ITU-T Recommendation M.3016 [3] as a potential
violation of security that can be directed at one of the four basic security
objectives (see subclause 4.2). ITU-T Recommendation X.800 [5] defines the
following security threats:
  * Masquerade.
  * Eavesdropping.
  * Unauthorized access.
  * Loss or corruption of information.
  * Repudiation.
  * Forgery.
  * Denial of service.
NOTE: In contemporary network security jargon, \"denial of service\" is most
often used to describe a class of attacks that are intended to subvert the
delivery of service. In this context the \"denial of service\" threat can be
best described as \"denial of service delivery\".
## 4.4 Security Mechanisms and services
ITU-T Recommendation X.800 [5] defines a set of security mechanisms that can
be used to implement security objectives within a network Security mechanisms
are manifested within and/or by security services. The fundamental security
services are identified by ITU-T Recommendation X.800 [5] as being:
  * Peer entity authentication.
  * Data origin authentication.
  * Access control service.
  * Connection confidentiality.
  * Connectionless confidentiality.
  * Selective field confidentiality.
  * Traffic flow confidentiality.
  * Connection Integrity with recovery.
  * Connection integrity without recovery.
  * Selective field connection integrity.
  * Connectionless integrity.
  * Selective field connectionless integrity.
  * Non-repudiation Origin.
  * Non-repudiation. Delivery.
## 4.5 TMN perspective regarding security threats
Table 1 is taken from ITU-T Recommendation M.3016 [3]. It shows TMN
perspective on which security functions are required to counter the Security
Threats identified in subclause 4.3.
The security mechanisms identified in subclause 4.4 may be used to achieve the
security requirements.
Table 1: Correlation of security management functional area with threats\
(from ITU-T Recommendation M.3016 [3])
* * *
Functional Requirement Area Security Management Masquerade Eavesdropping
Unauthorized\ Loss/corruption\ Repudiation Forgery Denial of Service access of
information
Verification of identities **x** **x**
Controlled access and authorization **x** **x**
Protection of confidentiality **x** **x**
Protection of data integrity **x**
Accountability
Activity logging **x** **x** **x** **x** **x**
Alarm reporting **x** **x** **x** **x**
Audit **x** **x** **x** **x** **x**
* * *
# 5 Security Management context and architecture
This clause puts the security issues identified in clause 4 into the context
of 3G OAM&P domain. It also identifies the architectural framework within
which security is required in 3G OAM&P domain.
## 5.1 Context
This subclause defines the Itf-N Security Management (SM) Context. The Itf-N
is one of many interfaces defined within the OAM&P domain (see subclause 4.1).
Therefore, this Itf-N Security Management Context is within that OAM&P Domain.
The following diagram highlights the types of communication links that are
realized across the Itf-N.\ All 3GPP Interface IRPs operate across the Itf-N
using these links.
The link-a-1 and link-a-2 represent the two-way links carrying Request from NM
(playing the role of IRPManager) and Response from Managed System (playing the
role of IRPAgent). The link-b represents a one-way link carrying Notification
from the Managed System (playing the role of IRPAgent). The link-c represents
the two-way link for File download and upload.
Figure 2: Security management context
The Requirements are related to these communication links. They are also
related to the end-points (communicating entities) of the communication links.
These end-points are the NM when playing the role of IRPManager and the
Managed System when playing the role of IRPAgent.
Securing the end-points means to protect them from unauthorized use (see
subclause 4.3).
The Requirements are not related to other kinds of links nor entities that
exist in the OAM&P Domain. Examples of link and entity types to be excluded
are:
  * Non-IRP links reaching NM (e.g. the customer-service-oriented > application accessing the applications in NM space, a user to > logon to NM).
  * Non-IRP links reaching IRPAgents (e.g. a user to log on to an > Element Manager, a remote network management application accessing > the IRPAgent functions).
  * Non-IRP links reaching Network Elements (e.g. a subnetwork > management application communicating with the MSC using > vendor-specific means, a user to logon to a radio base station).
  * All applications running in the NM space and Managed System space > that are not playing the roles of IRPManager and IRPAgent.
## 5.2 Architecture
The security architecture for 3G networks is defined within 3GPP TS 33.102 [4]
based on the concept of stratums and feature groups. The present document
extends the security architecture defined within 3GPP TS 33.102 [4] to support
security in the management system of a 3G network. The following figure
depicts the extension of the 3G security architecture to cover 3G OAM&P
Security.
Figure 3: The Management layers of the 3G security architecture\ (based on
3GPP TS 32.101 [1])
Within the Management layer there is defined an additional security feature
group. This feature group is:
**OAM &P Domain Security (VI-for further study):** the set of security
features that provides protection to all OAM&P communication related to all
applications, actors, and communications traffic related to the operations and
management of a 3G network over Itf-N.
# 6 Security threats in IRP context
## 6.1 Security threats to IRPs
The table below identifies the security threats in IRP context for the present
release.
The definitions of the column headings of the table follow:
1) Manager Masquerade: One entity can masquerade as an IRPManager.
2) Unauthorized Access: Unauthorized access by an IRPManager to > IRPAgent,
causing unexpected disclosure of information from > IRPAgent, and even damage
to IRPAgent and Network Elements under > its control.
3) Agent Masquerade: One entity can masquerade as an IRPAgent.
4) Loss or Corruption: Loss or corruption of information including bulk >
data.
5) Eavesdropping (Note 3): Eavesdropping on sensitive management >
information.
6) Repudiation: IRPManager and/or IRPAgent denies the fact that it has > sent
or received some management information.
\"File transfer\" in the row headings of the table refers to the file transfer
mechanism used by the corresponding IRPs. Because the IRPs use the file
transfer mechanisms provided by the File Transfer IRP the threats relating to
file transfer mechanisms are shown in rows associated with the FT IRP.
\"File content\" in the row headings of the table refers to the file content
of files used by the corresponding IRPs. The threats to file content are
dependant on the IRP to which the file belongs, and these are therefore shown
against the IRP that created or uses the files.
Table 2: Matrix of security threats
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | ** | **Unaut |** Agent | **Loss |** E | * | | | Manager | horized | Masqu | or | avesdro | _Repudi | | | Masqu | A | erade_ _| Corru | pping_ _| ation_ _| | | erade_ _| ccess_ _| | ption_ _| (Note | | | | | | | | 3) | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |__Basic | | | | | | | | CM | | | | | | | | IRP_ _| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > op | H | H | L | N/A | L | H | | eration | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > notif | N/A | N/A | L | L | L | L | | ication | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | * | | | | | | | | _Kernel | | | | | | | | CM | | | | | | | | IRP**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > op | H | H | L | N/A | L | H | | eration | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > Notif | N/A | N/A | L | L | L | L | | ication | | | | | | | | > (note | | | | | | | | > 4) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **Bulk | | | | | | | | CM | | | | | | | | IRP**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > op | H | H | L | N/A | L | H | | eration | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > notif | N/A | N/A | L | L | L | L | | ication | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > file | N/A | N/A | N/A | H | L | H | | > | | | | | | | | content | | | | | | | | > ( | | | | | | | | Active) | | | | | | | | > (note | | | | | | | | > 1) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > file | N/A | N/A | L | L | L | L | | > | | | | | | | | content | | | | | | | | > (P | | | | | | | | assive) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **Alarm | | | | | | | | IRP**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > op | H | L | L | N/A | L | H | | eration | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > notif | N/A | N/A | L | L | L | L | | ication | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > file | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | > | | | | | | | | content | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **Notif | | | | | | | | ication | | | | | | | | IRP**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > op | H | H (note | L | N/A | L | H | | eration | | 2) | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > notif | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | ication | | | | | | | | > (n/a) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **TM | | | | | | | | IRP**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > op | H | H (note | L | N/A | L | H | | eration | | 2) | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > notif | N/A | N/A | L | L | L | L | | ication | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > file | N/A | N/A | L | L | L | L | | > | | | | | | | | content | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **FT | | | | | | | | IRP**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > op | H | H | L | N/A | L | H | | eration | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > notif | N/A | N/A | L | L | L | L | | ication | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > file | H | H | N/A | N/A | L | H | | > t | | | | | | | | ransfer | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **EP | | | | | | | | IRP**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > op | H | H | L | N/A | L | H | | eration | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > notif | N/A | N/A | L | L | L | L | | ication | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **PM | | | | | | | | IRP**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > op | H | L(Note | L | N/A | L | H | | eration | | 2) | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > notif | N/A | N/A | L | L | L | L | | ication | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > file | N/A | N/A | N/A | L | L | L | | > | | | | | | | | content | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **CS | | | | | | | | IRP**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > op | H | L | L | N/A | L | H | | eration | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > notif | N/A | N/A | L | L | L | L | | ication | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **NL | | | | | | | | IRP** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > op | H | L | L | N/A | L | H | | eration | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > notif | N/A | N/A | L | L | L | L | | ication | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > file | N/A | N/A | N/A | L | L | L | | > | | | | | | | | content | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Legend: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | H: A | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ecurity | | | | | | | | threat | | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | | higher | | | | | | | | level. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | L: A | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ecurity | | | | | | | | threat | | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | level. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | N/A: | | | | | | | | Not | | | | | | | | appl | | | | | | | | icable. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | TBD: To | | | | | | | | Be | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | ecided. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | RPAgent | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | check | | | | | | | | that a | | | | | | | | dow | | | | | | | | nloaded | | | | | | | | file | | | | | | | | has not | | | | | | | | been | | | | | | | | changed | | | | | | | | during | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | session | | | | | | | | before | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | forming | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | pre-act | | | | | | | | ivation | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | acti | | | | | | | | vation. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | Relat | | | | | | | | ionship | | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | | ope | | | | | | | | rations | | | | | | | | is for | | | | | | | | further | | | | | | | | study. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | | Assume | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ecurity | | | | | | | | of DCN | | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | | IRP | | | | | | | | Manager | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | RPAgent | | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | scribed | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | | do | | | | | | | | cument. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | | | App | | | | | | | | licable | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | Kernel | | | | | | | | CM IRP | | | | | | | | is used | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | iso | | | | | | | | lation. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## 6.2 Mapping of Security requirements and Threats in IRP Context
It is necessary to take measures to prevent the threats described in subclause
6.1 in IRP context.
Table 3 shows how the threats identified in subclause 6.1 are countered by
security mechanisms.
Table 3: Mapping of security requirements and threats
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Sec | Sec | **Ma |** Un | ** | * | ** | **Rep | | urity | urity | nager | autho | Agent | *Loss | Eaves | udiat | | Re | Th | Ma | rized | Ma | or | dropp | ion** | | quire | reats | squer | Acc | squer | Co | ing**| | | ments | | ade** | ess**| ade** | rrupt | | | | | | | | | ion**| | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ma |** X**|** X**| | | | | | | nager | | | | | | | | | Auth | | | | | | | | | entic | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Agent | | |** X**| | | | | | Auth | | | | | | | | | entic | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Aut | |** X**| | | | | | | horiz | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Inte | | | |** X**| | | | | grity | | | | | | | | | prote | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Confi | |** X**| | |** X**| | | | denti | | | | | | | | | ality | | | | | | | | | prote | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Non-r | | | | | |** X**| | | epudi | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Sec |** X**|** X**| |** X**| | | | | urity | | | | | | | | | alarm | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Act |** X**|** X**| | | |** X** | | | ivity | | | | | | | | | log | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | note) | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | | | | Act | | | | | | | | | ivity | | | | | | | | | Log | | | | | | | | | can | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | artly | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | unter | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | hreat | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | pudia | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
# 7 Security requirement of Itf-N
Table 4 identifies the security requirements in IRP context for the present
release.
The definitions of the column headings of the table follow:
1) Manager Authentication: IRPAgent authenticates IRPManager. It > implies
that the IRPManager shall be identified so as to be > authenticated.
2) Authorization: IRPAgent authorizes the IRPManager, i.e. IRPAgent > checks
if the IRPManager has been authorized to perform the > operations on receiving
operation request.
3) Agent Authentication: IRPManager authenticates IRPAgent. It implies > that
the IRPAgent shall be identified so as to be authenticated.
4) Integrity Protection: Receiver (IRPManager or IRPAgent) of bulk data >
checks the integrity of the bulk data.
5) Confidentiality Protection: The confidentiality of sensitive > management
information is protected.
6) Non-Repudiation: Means are provided to prove that exchange of data >
between IRPAgent and IRPManager actually took place.
7) Security Alarm: IRPAgent issues security alarm to IRPManager when > breach
of security is detected, e.g. request for unauthorized > operation, damage of
file transferred, etc.
8) Activity Log: It helps to find out who (i.e. identities of > IRPManager)
did what (i.e. names of operations and notifications) > and when. This
capability is called the activity log. It includes > information like
requested operations, operations performed, > emitted notifications/alarms,
and transferred files. In the > context of Itf-N, IRPAgent maintains activity
log(s) and the > activity log(s) of IRPManager are out of scope of the present
> document.
\"File transfer\" in row headings of the table refers to the file transfer
mechanism used by corresponding IRP. Because the IRPs use the file transfer
mechanisms provided by the File Transfer IRP the threats relating to file
transfer mechanisms are shown in rows associated with the FT IRP.
\"File content\" in row headings of the table refers to the file content of
file created or used by the corresponding IRP.
\"Active\" in relation to file content for Bulk CM IRP refers to configuration
files downloaded to the IRPAgent from the IRPManager.
\"Passive\" in relation to file content for Bulk CM IRP refers to
configuration files uploaded to the IRPManager from the IRPAgent.
Table 4 Matrix of security requirements
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | > Man | > Aut | > A | > | > C | > | > Sec | > Act | | | ager\ | horiz | gent\ | Integ | onfid | Non-R | urity | ivity | | | > | ation | > | rity\ | entia | epudi | > | > Log | | | Auth | | Auth | > | lity\ | ation | Alarm | | | | entic | | entic | Prote | > | | | | | | ation | | ation | ction | Prote | | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | | | | | | | | | | Basic | | | | | | | | | | CM | | | | | | | | | | IRP**| | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |** o | X | X | - | N/A | - | - | X | X | | perat | | | | | | | | | | ion**| | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | N/A | N/A | - | - | - | - | N/A | - | | *noti | | | | | | | | | | ficat | | | | | | | | | | ion** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **K | | | | | | | | | | ernel | | | | | | | | | | CM | | | | | | | | | | IRP** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > | X | X | - | N/A | - | - | X | X | | oper | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > No | N/A | N/A | - | - | - | - | N/A | - | | tific | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | | (note | | | | | | | | | | > 6) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | | | | | | | | | | _Bulk | | | | | | | | | | CM | | | | | | | | | | IRP_ _| | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > | X | X | - | N/A | - | - | X | X | | oper | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > no | N/A | N/A | - | - | - | - | N/A | - | | tific | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > | N/A | N/A | N/A | X | - | - | X | X | | file | | | | | | | | (note | | > co | | | | | | | | 3) | | ntent | | | | | | | | | | > (Ac | | | | | | | | | | tive) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > | N/A | N/A | - | - | - | - | N/A | N/A | | file | | | | | | | | | | > co | | | | | | | (note | | | ntent | | | | | | | 2) | | | > | | | | | | | | | | (Pas | | | | | | | | | | sive) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | | | | | | | | | | Alarm | | | | | | | | | | IRP_ _| | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > | X | - | - | N/A | - | - | X | X | | oper | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > no | N/A | N/A | - | - | - | - | N/A | - | | tific | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | file | | | | | | | | | | > co | | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | | (note | | | | | | | | | | > 1) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | __No | | | | | | | | | | tific | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | IRP_ _| | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > | X | X | - | N/A | - | - | X | X | | oper | | (note | | | | | | | | ation | | 5) | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > no | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | tific | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | | (n/a) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | __TM | | | | | | | | | | IRP_ _| | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > __o | X | X | - | N/A | - | - | X | X | | perat | | (note | | | | | | | | ion_ _| | 5) | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > * | N/A | N/A | - | - | - | - | N/A | - | | _noti | | | | | | | | | | ficat | | | | | | | | | | ion**| | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > * | N/A | N/A | - | - | - | - | N/A | - | | *file | | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | | cont | | | | | | | | | | ent** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **FT | | | | | | | | | | IRP** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > | X | X | - | N/A | - | - | X | X | | oper | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > no | N/A | N/A | - | - | - | - | N/A | - | | tific | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > | X | X | N/A | X | - | - | X | X | | file | | | | (note | | | | | | > tra | | | | 4) | | | | | | nsfer | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **EP | | | | | | | | | | IRP** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > | X | X | - | N/A | - | - | X | X | | oper | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > no | N/A | N/A | - | - | - | - | N/A | - | | tific | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **PM | | | | | | | | | | IRP** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > | X | X | - | N/A | - | - | X | X | | oper | | (note | | | | | | | | ation | | 5) | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > no | N/A | N/A | - | - | - | - | N/A | - | | tific | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > | N/A | N/A | - | - | - | - | N/A | - | | file | | | | | | | | | | > co | | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **CS | | | | | | | | | | IRP** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > | X | - | - | N/A | - | - | X | X | | oper | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > no | N/A | N/A | - | - | - | - | N/A | - | | tific | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **NL | | | | | | | | | | IRP** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > | X | - | - | N/A | - | - | X | X | | oper | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > no | N/A | N/A | - | - | - | - | N/A | - | | tific | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > | N/A | N/A | - | - | - | - | N/A | - | | file | | | | | | | | | | > co | | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | N/A: | | | | | | | | | | Not | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | pplic | | | | | | | | | | able. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | "-\": | | | | | | | | | | Not a | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | | ment. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | X: A | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | | ment. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | cause | | | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | | | file | | | | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | | | | nsfer | | | | | | | | | | opera | | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | | IRP | | | | | | | | | | have | | | | | | | | | | yet | | | | | | | | | | been | | | | | | | | | | def | | | | | | | | | | ined. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | | field | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | cause | | | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | | | grity | | | | | | | | | | check | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | perf | | | | | | | | | | ormed | | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | file | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | tents | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | ther | | | | | | | | | | efore | | | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | | | sec | | | | | | | | | | urity | | | | | | | | | | alarm | | | | | | | | | | can | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | | ssued | | | | | | | | | | as a | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | sult. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | | | | | | file | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | tents | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | | ecked | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | suing | | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | | alarm | | | | | | | | | | ident | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | | field | | | | | | | | | | would | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | "-\". | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | ctive | | | | | | | | | | files | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | act | | | | | | | | | | ivity | | | | | | | | | | log | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | Bulk | | | | | | | | | | CM | | | | | | | | | | IRP | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | tains | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | tails | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | subo | | | | | | | | | | perat | | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 4: FT | | | | | | | | | | IRP | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | espon | | | | | | | | | | sible | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | che | | | | | | | | | | cking | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | | | grity | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | files | | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | | ansfe | | | | | | | | | | rred, | | | | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | file | | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | | seman | | | | | | | | | | tics. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 5: | | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | | latio | | | | | | | | | | nship | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | | opera | | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | fu | | | | | | | | | | rther | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | tudy. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 6: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | | K | | | | | | | | | | ernel | | | | | | | | | | CM | | | | | | | | | | IRP | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | isola | | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
###### ## Annex A (informative): Protocols for IP Network Security to Support
Itf-N
Many security threats exist to the management plane of the telecommunications
networks. In addition, new security threats to the management plane are being
introduced as the network evolves. The purpose of this document is to provide
security guidelines for using IP Network security protocols such as Internet
Protocol Security (IPsec), SSL/TLS (Secure Socket Layer/Transport Layer
Security) and Secure Shell(SSH) to help mitigate security risks to the
management network. The security provided by IP Network security protocols may
be obtained by implementing these protocols within network equipment or
through the use of external mechanisms such as IPsec VPN devices.
In some telecommunications networks, management traffic is transmitted on a
separate network from that carrying the service provider\'s end-user traffic.
In these networks, security threats to the management plane are isolated from
malicious activity on the end-user plane. With evolving telecommunications
networks however, management traffic is often combined on a single network
with end-user traffic. Combining traffic in this manner minimizes costs by
requiring only a single integrated network infrastructure; however, new
security challenges are introduced. Threats in the end-user plane now become
threats to the management plane since the management plane becomes accessible
to the multitude of end-users. Thus security, which was very important before,
becomes even more critical with the evolving network.
Scope
This document provides recommendations and guidelines for using IP Network
security protocols such as Internet Protocol Security (IPsec), SSL/TLS (Secure
Socket Layer/Transport Layer Security) and Secure Shell (SSH) to help mitigate
security risks for management traffic. The use of IP Network security
protocols can be used to provide a basic level of network security for the
3GPP Itf-N interface and underlying network used to transport management
traffic. In addition to the use of IP Network security protocols, other
aspects of security including operator authentication/authorization, operating
system hardening and security event logging must also be considered to provide
an overall secure solution, however these aspects are beyond the scope of this
document.
Framework Model
The framework model used by this document is from Figure 1, clause 5.1.1 of TS
32.101 [TS 32.101]. This diagram, reproduced below in Figure 1, identifies a
set of interfaces used by 3GPP. The recommendations of this document apply
specifically to management interfaces of Type 2 [EM-NM; also known as
Interface N], including the underlying IP transport network used to support
this interface.
The recommendations and guidelines in this document may also be considered in
future to provide security for other interfaces such as the Type 1 [NE-EM]
interface.
{width="6.190972222222222in" height="3.8041666666666667in"}
Figure A.1: 3GPP Management System Interactions
Security Threats
A number of serious security threats are commonly associated with the OAM&P
management network infrastructure. Security threats include Masquerade,
Eavesdropping, Unauthorized Access, Loss/Corruption of Information,
Repudiation, Forgery and Denial of Service.
Attacks may be launched from inside the network by insiders such as
disgruntled employees and also from external sources such as hackers. IP
Network security protocols such as IPsec, SSL/TLS and SSH can be effective in
mitigating many of these security threats. In addition, other security
services may be able to make use of security provided by the IP Network
security protocols. For example passwords used for application level
authentication will be protected against eavesdropping when transmitted over a
network infrastructure secured by IP Network security protocols.
Table 1, taken from ITU-T Recommendation M.3016, illustrates a mapping of
security functions required to mitigate identified security threats [M.3016].
In Table 2, the general capabilities of IP Network security protocols (IPsec,
SSL/TLS and SSH) is mapped against required security functions. This
illustrates how IP Network security protocols can help mitigate security
vulnerabilities.
Table A.1: Correlation of Security Management Functional Area with Threats\
(from ITU-T Recommendation M.3016 [2])
* * *
Functional Requirement Area Security Management Masquerade Eavesdropping
Unauthorized\ Loss/corruption\ Repudiation Forgery Denial of Service access of
information
Verification of identities **x** **x**
Controlled access and authorization **x** **x**
Protection of confidentiality **x** **x**
Protection of data integrity **x**
Activity logging **x** **x** **x** **x** **x**
Alarm reporting **x** **x** **x** **x**
Audit **x** **x** **x** **x** **x**
* * *
Table A.2: Correlation of Security Functional Area with Security Services
Provided by IP Network Security Protocols
* * *
**Functional Requirement Area** **Threat Mitigation Measures Provided by IP
Network Security Protocols.** Verification of identities Machine-to-machine
(server-to-server) authentication services can be provided based on password
or X.509 certificates. Application layer authentication is not provided.
Controlled access and authorization Network/transport layer packet filtering
service can reject non-authorized packets. Protection of confidentiality
Confidentiality service is provided by underlying encryption technology within
the Network Security protocol. The strength of the encryption service can vary
to extremely strong dependent on underlying encryption algorithm and key
length chosen. Protection of data integrity Strong data integrity service is
provided by underlying cryptographic service within the Network Security
protocol. (E.g. Keyed Hashed Message Authentication Code with Secure Hash
Algorithm-1). Activity logging Not provided. Alarm reporting Not provided.
Audit Not provided.
* * *
Security Solutions
[Application Layer Security]{.underline}
Application layer security provides a security solution targeted specifically
to a particular application, which must be implemented in the end hosts.
Application layer security has the advantage of easy access to user
credentials because it operates in the context of the user, which makes user
AAA services easier to implement. Also, an application can be extended for
security without having to depend on the operating system to provide these
services.
The disadvantage of application level security is that security mechanisms
must be designed independently for every application that needs to be secured.
Thus, it is very difficult to create seamless and scalable security
architectures using only application layer security.
[Transport Layer Security]{.underline}
Transport layer security provides security services at the Transport layer
(Layer 4). SSL, which has been revised and standardized by the Internet
Engineering Task Force (IETF) as TLS, is the security protocol that provides
security at the transport layer.
A single SSL/TLS instance can be used to create multiple SSL/TLS sessions
through an Internet protocol (IP) network to provide security for various
applications. Modifications are required to each application to allow that
application to request SSL/TLS security services. SSL/TLS is the de-facto
standard for Web-based HTTP traffic, and all standard Web browsers include
built-in SSL/TLS technology.
Because SSL/TLS technology does not operate in the context of the user,
obtaining user context is difficult, making it harder to implement user AAA
services. SSL/TLS is applicable only to TCP traffic and cannot be used to
protect UDP traffic.
[Network Layer Security]{.underline}
Network layer security provides security services at the Network layer (Layer
3). The IETF IPsec Suite is the security protocol that provides security at
the network layer. IPsec is optional for IPv4 and a mandatory component of
IPv6. IPsec can be used to protect data from any different application or
transport protocols. No modifications are required to the applications, and
the security services appear transparent to the applications. IPsec is the de-
facto standard used for creating network layer virtual private networks.
(IPsec VPN).
Because IPsec technology does not operate in the context of the user,
obtaining user context is difficult, making it harder to implement user AAA
services.
[Recommendations]{.underline}
Service providers are increasingly using in-band network management and thus
logical separation of management traffic through the use of IP network
security protocols is a beneficial security practice. Also, security
statistics show that up to 70% of all compromises of resources are caused by
"insiders". Use of IP network security protocols for management traffic
provides a good degree of protection against insiders with the exception of
the small group of insiders that have legitimate access to the encryption
keys.
It is recommended to provide baseline infrastructure security between machines
communicating across the Itf-N through the use of IP network security
protocols such as IPsec, SSL/TLS and SSH. These IP network security protocols
employ security services through the use of cryptographic mechanisms and
provide services including data confidentiality, data integrity, machine-to-
machine authentication, and others. The recommended IP network security
protocols are IPSec (Internet Protocol security suite), Secure Shell (SSH),
and Secure Socket Layer/Transport Layer Security (SSL/TLS), and the choice and
use of a particular IP network security protocol is based on particular
service provider requirements.
External IPsec VPN devices may also be used to meet these recommendations for
protection of management traffic. Using an external IPSec VPN instead of
embedded IPsec solutions however introduces extra complexity and does not
provide end-to-end protection between management servers. Thus the preferred
longer-term solution is to incorporate the capability directly into the
management platforms.
All of the IP network security protocols rely on underlying cryptographic
algorithms such as AES (Advanced Encryption Standard), DES (Data Encryption
Standard), TDEA (Triple Data Encryption Algorithm), HMAC-MD5 (Hashed Message
Authentication Code with Message Digest 5), HMAC-SHA-1 (Hashed Message
Authentication Code with Secure Hash Algorithm-1), RSA (Rivest, Shamir,
Adleman) and other cryptographic algorithms to provide the security services.
Please note that the choice of particular cryptographic algorithms and key
lengths for use with IP network security protocols is based on particular
service provider and market requirements, and no specific recommendations are
made in this document. {References [FIPS-46-3], [FIPS-197], [RFC 2403], [RFC
2404], [RFC 2437]}.
IPsec Security Services:
[Overview and Capabilities]{.underline}
IPsec addresses security at the IP layer, provided through the use of a
combination of cryptographic and protocol security mechanisms. IPSec protocol
runs between the Network layer (Layer 3) and the Transport layer (Layer 4) and
can be used to protect any type of data traffic (TCP or UDP) and is
independent of applications. IPsec is designed to provide interoperable, high
quality, cryptographically-based security for IPv4 and IPv6. The set of
security services offered by IPsec includes:
a) Data integrity
b) Data origin authentication based on IP address
c) Machine-to-machine authentication
d) Anti-Replay Protection
e) Data confidentiality
f) Cryptographic key exchange
These objectives are met through the use of two traffic security services, the
Authentication Header (AH) and the Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP), and
through the use of cryptographic key management procedures and protocols. AH
service provides data origin authentication, machine-to-machine authentication
and data integrity for IP packets. ESP service provides data confidentiality
service in addition to data origin authentication, machine-to-machine
authentication and data integrity for IP packets. IPsec mechanisms also
designed to be cryptographic algorithm-independent to permits selection of
different sets of algorithms without affecting the other parts of the
implementation.
Key Management is provided by the Internet Key Exchange (IKE) protocol. Both
manual and automatic mechanisms for key negotiation between endpoints are
provided. Automatic key negotiation can be based on pre-shared keys (e.g.
passwords) or X.509 certificates.
[Recommendations for use of IPsec for Itf-N Security]{.underline}
This section provides basic recommendation for the use of IPsec for protection
of network management traffic crossing the Itf-N interface, and is not
intended to be exhaustive.
a) The Itf-N servers operate in a client-server (host to host) environment and
therefore the use IPsec transport mode versus IPsec tunnel mode is
recommended.
b) ESP service is recommended versus AH service since it can provide
encryption service and/or authentication services. AH service can only provide
authentication service.
c) It is recommended to use always use the optional ESP authentication service
when using ESP encryption service.
d) If only authentication services are needed, it is recommended to use ESP
service with null encryption to accomplish this.
e) It is recommended to choose underlying cryptographic algorithms depending
on service provider and market requirements. (For North American applications
128 bit AES should be strongly considered).
f) References [RFC 2401], [RFC 2402], [RFC 2403], [RFC 2404], [RFC 2405], [RFC
2406], [RFC 2407], [RFC 2408], [RFC 2409], [RFC 2410], [RFC 2411], [RFC 2412],
[RFC 3602], [RFC 2451], [FIPS-197].
SSL/TLS Security Services:
[Overview and Capabilities]{.underline}
The Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) security protocol provides data encryption,
server authentication, message integrity, and optional client authentication
for a TCP/IP connection at the transport layer (layer 4). SSL is currently at
revision 3.0. Transport Layer Security (TLS) is the IETF standardized version
of SSL which includes security enhancements over SSL including:
  * Required Diffie-Hellman and DSA digital signatures algorithm (DSA) support, with optional RSA support.
  * Use of stronger hashed message authentication algorithm (HMAC) instead of a non-standard SSL defined MAC algorithm.
```{=html}
``` \- Modified key generation algorithm which uses MD5 (Message Digest 5) and
SHA-1 (Secure Hash Algorithm 1) with the HMAC.
The SSL/TLS protocol runs above the Network Layer (Layer 4) and works with
Transport Control Protocol (TCP) protocol only and cannot work with User
Datagram Protocol (UDP). The application layer protocols that commonly run on
top of SSL/TLS include, but are not limited to, Hypertext Transport Protocol
(HTTP), the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP), and the Internet
Messaging Access Protocol. Higher application-level protocol can work above
SSL/TLS without any regard for SSL/TLS; however the application level must be
linked to SSL/TLS through the use of I/O callbacks.
The SSL/TLS protocol provides three security functions for TCP traffic: data
confidentiality, data integrity and authentication.
The SSL/TLS security protocol architecture provides two layers which run over
TCP: The SSL/TLS Upper Layer Protocols, and the SSL/TLS Record Protocol.
The SSL/TLS Upper Layer Protocols includes the SSL/TLS Handshake Protocol,
SSL/TLS Cipher Change Protocol, and the SSL/TLS Alert Protocol for
notifications. SSL/TLS sessions are initially created by the SSL/TLS handshake
protocol which provides:
a) Negotiation of authentication and security mechanisms.
b) Authentication of client and server. (Using the server and client >
public/private keys).
c) Establishment of security keys.
Once the SSL/TLS session is established, the SSL/TLS Record Protocol is used
for bulk data transport services. The SSL/TLS Record Protocol provides:
a) Data origin authentication based on the server keys.
b) Data integrity.
c) Confidentiality.
[Recommendations for use of SSL/TLS for Itf-N Security]{.underline}
This section provides basic recommendation for the use of SSL/TLS for
protection of network management traffic crossing the Itf-N interface, and is
not intended to be exhaustive.
a) Where SSL/TLS is required, either SSLv3 or TLS may be used . > However, it
is noted that TLS has enhanced security over SSL.
b) SSL/TLS allows either unidirectional authentication where the server > is
authenticated to the client only, or bidirectional > authentication where both
client and server authenticate to each > other. Unidirectional authentication
is the usual method used in > the public internet, however for network
management applications > bidirectional authentication is recommended to allow
both parties > to know they are communicating with the desired endpoint.
c) References [RFC 2246], [RFC 3546], [SSL V3].
SSH Security Services:
[Overview and Capabilities]{.underline}
SSH is an Application Layer (Layer 7) security protocol commonly used to
directly replace insecure protocols Telnet and File Transfer Protocol (FTP)
protocols. Telnet and FTP are insecure protocols which transmit passwords and
all other data in the clear. SSH can also be used to protect other protocols
through the use of port forwarding, so it can be used as a general network
security protocol.
There are two versions of SSH: SSHv1 and SSHv2. SSHv1 was developed in 1998
and is now considered insecure/obsolete.
Secure Shell 2 features are:
  * Full replacement for Telnet, Rlogin, Rsh, Rcp, and FTP protocols to provide secure file transfer and file copying. 
  * Automatic authentication of users. (no passwords sent in clear-text).
  * Bi-directional authentication (both the server and the client are authenticated).
  * Tunnelling of arbitrary TCP/IP-based applications through the use of port forwarding. 
  * Encryption of data for data confidentiality.
  * Multiple authentication options including passwords, public key, and SecureID authentication
  * Multiple ciphers suites available.
The SSHv2 architecture is consists of three major components:
  * The Transport Layer Protocol [SSH-TRANS] provides server authentication, data confidentiality, and data integrity. It may optionally also provide compression.
  * The User Authentication Protocol [SSH-USERAUTH] authenticates the client-side user to the server.
  * The Connection Protocol [SSH-CONNECT] multiplexes the encrypted tunnel into several logical channels.
The connection protocol provides channels that can be used for a wide range of
purposes. Standard methods are provided for setting up secure interactive
shell sessions and for forwarding (\"tunnelling\") arbitrary TCP/IP ports and
connections.
Port number 22 has been registered with the IANA as the standard port to use
for SSHv2 applications.
[Recommendations for use of SSH for Itf-N Security]{.underline}
This section provides basic recommendation for the use of SSH for protection
of network management traffic crossing the Itf-N interface, and is not
intended to be exhaustive.
a) It is recommended to use SSHv2 where SSH protocol is required because of
its widespread acceptance and enhanced security over SSHv1.
b) SSHv1 should be considered insecure/obsolete.
c) Interoperating with an SSHv1 protocol is not recommended and SSHv1
connection attempts should be rejected.
d) References [SSH-ARCH], SSH-TRANS], [SSH-USERAUTH], [SSH-CONNECT].
Conclusions/Recommendations
IP Network Security protocols (IPsec, SSL/TLS or SSH) can be used to provide
baseline infrastructure security between machines communicating across the
Itf-N. It is recommended to use these IP Network security protocols to provide
underlying security for the 3GPP OA&M network, with the choice of protocols
and cryptographic dependant on particular service provider and market
requirements.
References
+------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [TS 32.101] | ###### 3GPP TS 32.101 | | | : \"Telecommunication management; Principles and | | | high level requirements\". {#gpp-ts-32.101-tele | | | communication-management-principles-and-high-lev | | | el-requirements. .list-paragraph .Req-Char-Char} | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [M.3016] | ITU‑T Recommendation M.3016 (1998): \"TMN | | | security overview\". | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [RFC2401] | IETF RFC 2401, \"Security Architecture for the | | | Internet Protocol\", November 1998, S. Kent, R. | | | Atkinson; | | | | | |  | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [NDS/IP] | 3GPP TS 33.210, 3rd Generation Partnership | | | Project; Technical Specification Group Services | | | and System Aspects; 3G Security; Network Domain | | | Security; IP network layer security. | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [RFC 2402] | IETF RFC 2402, \"Internet Protocol | | | Authentication Header\", November 1998, S. Kent, | | | R. Atkinson; | | | | | |  | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [RFC 2403] | IETF RFC 2403, \" The Use of HMAC-MD5-96 within | | | ESP and AH," | | |  | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [RFC 2404] | IETF RFC 2404, \" The Use of HMAC-SHA-1-96 | | | within ESP and AH," | | |  | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [RFC 2405] | IETF RFC 2405, \"The ESP DES CBC Cipher | | | Algorithm with Explicit IV," | | | | | |  | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [RFC 2406] | IETF RFC 2406, \"IP Encapsulating Security | | | Payload (ESP)," | | |  | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [RFC 2407] | IETF RFC 2407, \"The Internet IP Security Domain | | | of Interpretation for ISAKMP," | | | | | |  | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [RFC 2408] | IETF RFC 2408, \" Internet Security Association | | | and Key Management Protocol," | | | | | |  | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [RFC 2409] | IETF RFC 2409, \"Internet Key Exchange," | | |  | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [RFC 2410] | IETF RFC 2410, "The Null Encryption Algorithm | | | and Its Use with IPsec," | | | | | |  | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [RFC 2411] | IETF RFC 2411, "IP Security Document Roadmap," | | |  | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [RFC 2412] | IETF RFC 2412, "The OAKLEY Key Determination | | | Protocol," | | |  | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [RFC 3602] | IETF RFC 3602, "The AES-CBC Cipher Algorithm | | | and Its Use with | | | IPsec" | | | | | | http://www.ietf.org/inter | | | net-drafts/draft-ietf-ipsec-ciph-aes-cbc-04.txt | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [RFC 2451] | The ESP CBC-Mode Cipher Algorithms | | | | | | http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2451.txt | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [RFC 2246] | IETF RFC 2236, "The TLS Protocol, Version 1.0" | | | | | | ftp://ftp.rfc-editor.org/in-notes/rfc2246.txt | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [RFC 3546] | IETF RFC 3546, "Transport Layer Security (TLS) | | | Extensions" | | | | | | ftp://ftp.rfc-editor.org/in-notes/rfc3546.txt | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [SSL V3] | Secure Socket Layer Version 3.0 Specification, | | | Netscape Communications. | | | | | | http://wp.netscape.com/eng/ssl3/ | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [SSH-ARCH] | Ylonen, T., \"SSH Protocol Architecture\", I-D | | | draft-ietf-architecture-15.txt, Oct 2003. | | | | | | http: | | | //www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-secsh- | | | architecture-15.txt | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [SSH-TRANS] | Ylonen, T., \"SSH Transport Layer Protocol\", | | | I-D draft-ietf-transport-17.txt, Oct 2003. | | | | | | http://www.ietf.org/in | | | ternet-drafts/draft-ietf-secsh-transport-17.txt | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [SSH-USERAUTH] | Ylonen, T., \"SSH Authentication Protocol\", I-D | | | draft-ietf-userauth-18.txt, Sept 2002. | | | | | | http://www.ietf.org/i | | | nternet-drafts/draft-ietf-secsh-userauth-18.txt | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [SSH-CONNECT] | Ylonen, T., \"SSH Connection Protocol\", I-D | | | draft-ietf-connect-18.txt, Oct 2003. | | | | | | http://www.ietf.org/ | | | internet-drafts/draft-ietf-secsh-connect-18.txt | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [FIPS-46-3] | Data Encryption Standard. (Describes both DES | | | and 3DES). | | | | | | http://csrc.n | | | ist.gov/publications/fips/fips46-3/fips46-3.pdf | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [FIPS-197] | Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), FIPS | | | Publication 197, National Institute of Standards | | | and Technology, November 2001. | | | | | | http://csrc. | | | nist.gov/publications/fips/fips197/fips-197.pdf | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [FIPS-197] | Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), FIPS | | | Publication 197, National Institute of Standards | | | and Technology, November 2001. | | | | | | http://csrc. | | | nist.gov/publications/fips/fips197/fips-197.pdf | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | [RFC 2437] | PKCS #1: RSA Cryptography Specifications | | | Version 2.0. B. Kaliski, J. Staddon. October | | | 1998 | | | | | |  | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
###### ## Annex B (informative): Firewalls for Network Security to Support
Itf-N
A firewall is a fundamental security building block that provides network
isolation at boundaries between network segments or between different
networks. A firewall performs isolation based on specific traffic filtering
rules configured onto the firewall. Firewalls may be used in conjunction with
other security mechanisms to provide an additional layer of security for the
Itf-N interface. For the Itf-N interface, firewalls may be used to only allow
traffic between the IRPManager and IRPAgent host machines to transit the
firewall boundaries. The addition of firewalls at the Itf-N interface helps
provide "defence in depth" security whereby multiple security mechanisms are
overlaid to achieve stronger security.
A firewall examines both inbound and outbound traffic, and should be
configured to deny all traffic unless specifically allowed by the firewall
rules. A firewall may also provide logging of traffic and trigger alarms when
unauthorized packets are detected. Firewalls can physically be provided for
the Itf-N interface as separate appliances at the IRPManager and IRPAgent host
machines or may be provided as software on the host machines themselves. Types
of firewalls include static packet filtering, application layer, and state
aware packet filtering firewalls. Any of the firewall types may be used to
provide protection for the Itf-N interface, and the choice will depend on
particular customer needs and preferences.
Static packet filtering firewalls examine incoming and outgoing packets and
apply a set of rules to determine whether packets will be allowed to transit
the firewall or be dropped. This determination is typically based on the
packet source and destination IP addresses, the protocol type, and the TCP
source and destination ports. Depending on the packet and the criteria, the
firewall will drop or forward the packet, and possibly create a log entry
and/or raise an alarm. Some static packet filtering firewalls may also provide
deeper inspection of packets, possibly up to the application layer.
Application layer firewalls run applications on behalf of the machines in the
network they are protecting, and are often called "proxy" firewalls. When
performing the applications, application layer firewalls will detect any
anomalous activity and if found will not pass the data onto the machines they
are protecting. Application layer firewalls must be enabled with all necessary
application and must run these applications on behalf of all protected
machines. Because of this, application layer firewalls have a high impact on
network performance.
State aware firewalls perform packet filtering functions similar to static
packet filtering firewalls, and in addition maintain information about the
state of traffic connections. The state information allows the firewall to
make better decisions about whether to allow or deny particular traffic. For
example, a state aware firewall may be configured to only allow traffic from
machines on one side of the network to initiate communications. This is
particularly useful where private networks are connected to public networks
since typically only the machines on the private network are trusted to
initiate data communications.
When using firewalls as an additional security mechanism for the Itf-N
interface, the firewalls should be configured to allow only communication
between the IRPManager and the IRPAgent host machines. Any other traffic on
the network attempting to access the IRPManager or IRPAgent host machines
should be denied. This will isolate the IRPManager to IRPAgent network
communications from other network traffic, thereby providing a layer of
protection for these machines.
Note that providing firewalls may have system engineering and product impacts,
and some applications may have to be made firewall aware. Also note that
firewalls will not protect against all security attacks such as an attacker
spoofing legitimate IRPManager or IRPAgent packet information.
#