# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**32.381: Partial Suspension of Itf-N Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements.**
32.382: Partial Suspension of Itf-N Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS).
32.383: Partial Suspension of Itf-N Integration Reference Point (IRP); Common
Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS).
32.385: Partial Suspension of Itf-N Integration Reference Point (IRP);
eXtensible Markup Language (XML) definitions.
The Itf-N interface is built up by a number of IRPs and a related Name
Convention, which realise the functional capabilities over this interface. The
basic structure of the IRPs is defined in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS
32.102 [2].
Information of an event is carried in a notification. An IRPAgent (typically
an EM or a NE) emits notifications (see 3GPP TS 32.302 [3]. The IRPManager
(typically a Network Management System) receives notifications. In certain
scenarios floods of unwanted notifications including alarms would be sent to
the IRP manager by network object instances. Thereby the interface and the
management systems bear unnecessary load. Even worse: the Operator\'s
awareness is drawn away from really urgent events.
# 1 Scope
The purpose of Partial Suspension of Itf-N IRP is to define an interface
through which an IRPManager can suspend the forwarding of notifications via
Itf-N which were generated in parts of the managed systems.
The present document contains the Requirements of Partial Suspension of Itf-N
IRP. It defines, for the purpose of generally suspending the forwarding of
notifications, the basic requirements to be fulfilled on Itf-N.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions that, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document in the same Release as the present document.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service
(IS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**IRP:** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**IRPAgent:** See 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
**IRPManager:** See 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
**Itf-N suspended managed instance:** instance whose notifications are
temporarily not forwarded via Itf-N
**Partial suspension of Itf-N:** the forwarding of all notifications via Itf-N
generated by some or all managed objects is suspended\ If a bulk CM file was
transported into the IRPAgent and is activated there shortly before suspension
or not via Itf-N during suspension, then Itf-N notifications resulting from
the execution of the file are suspended.
**suspended notification:** notification which would be sent under normal
circumstances via Itf-N, but is not because a corresponding suspension request
was previously received
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
EM Element Manager
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service (see 3GPP TS 32.101 [1])
Itf-N Interface N
MIB Management Information Base
NE Network Element
# 4 Requirements for partial suspension of Itf-N
## 4.1 General requirements
4.1.1 Granularity of suspension:\ The Itf-N shall allow to specify in a
suspension request which managed instances shall be Itf-N suspended.
4.1.2 An IRPManager shall be able to remove a partial suspension of Itf‑N.
4.1.3 An IRPManager should be able to request from the IRPAgent a list of the
active suspensions.
4.1.4 Impact on logging and alarming:\ It\'s the IRPAgent\'s decision whether
or not the suspended notifications are logged, whether or not they go into the
alarmList.
4.1.5 Impact on measurements:\ Measurements are not suspended.
4.1.6 Impact on delta synchronization:\ Delta synchronization is also not
affected by the suspension.
## 4.2 Requirements for notifications
4.2.1 Suspended notifications shall not be sent, need not to be stored for re-
sending after the end of the suspension.
4.2.2 Suspension should be applied as soon as possible, but notifications
which are already ready to be sent from notification buffers are allowed to be
sent.
## 4.3 Security related requirements
4.3.1 Authorization and Authentication of IRPManagers requesting partial
suspension of Itf-N may be regarded necessary.
## 4.4 Multi-Manager Related Requirements
4.4.1 If one IRPManager requests a partial suspension of Itf-N, then a
notification shall be sent containing the information about the suspension.
After receiving the notification, [ ]{.underline} IRPManagers should be aware
that the IRPAgent can not deliver reliable results for some operations while
partial suspension is active. Therefore the IRPManager should not use such
operations, e.g. CM and FM or TM, etc. operations in the scoped branch of the
MIB, which is suspended.
4.4.2 If an IRPManager requests an operation related to suspended instances
which are subject of notification forwarding, then a notification may be sent
to this IRPManager containing the information about the related suspension.
4.4.3 If one IRPManager removes a partial suspension of Itf-N, then a
notification shall be sent containing the information about the suspension
revocation.\ An Itf-N partial suspension may be removed by another IRPManager
than the one who requested it. This is useful in order to avoid the critical
case that a temporary Itf-N suspension can not be removed anymore because the
initiating IRPManager fails for a longer time.
NOTE: The co-ordination between several IRPManagers / NMS operators involved
in this functionality is an organizational matter and out of scope of the
present document.
#