# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication Management; as identified below:
TS 32.401: Performance Management (PM); **Concept and requirements**
TS 52.402: Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements - GSM
TS 32.404: Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements - Definitions
and template
TS **32.405: Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements UTRAN**
TS 32.406: Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Core Network
(CN) PS domain
TS 32.407: Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Core Network
(CN) CS domain
TS 32.408: Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Teleservice
**TS 32.409: Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements IMS**
The present document is part of a set of specifications, which describe the
requirements and information model necessary for the standardised Operation,
Administration and Maintenance (OA&M) of a multi-vendor 3G-system.
During the lifetime of a 3G network, its logical and physical configuration
will undergo changes of varying degrees and frequencies in order to optimise
the utilisation of the network resources. These changes will be executed
through network configuration management activities and/or network
engineering, see 3GPP TS 32.600 [3].
Many of the activities involved in the daily operation and future network
planning of a 3G network require data on which to base decisions. This data
refers to the load carried by the network and the grade of service offered. In
order to produce this data performance measurements are executed in the NEs,
which comprise the network. The data can then be transferred to an external
system, e.g. an Operations System (OS) in TMN terminology, for further
evaluation. The purpose of the present document is to describe the mechanisms
involved in the collection of the data and the definition of the data itself.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the measurements of IMS.
3GPP TS 32.401 [5] describes Performance Management concepts and requirements.
The present document is valid for all measurement types provided by an
implementation of an IMS network. These may be measurement types defined
within the present document, measurements defined within other standards
bodies, or vendor specific measurement types.
Only measurement types that are specific to IMS network are defined within the
present documents. I.e. vendor specific measurement types and measurements
related to \"external\" technologies used in IMS network, such as ATM or IP,
are not covered. Instead, these could be applied as described by the other,
\"external\" standards bodies (e.g. ITU-T or IETF) or according to
manufacturer\'s documentation.
The definition of the standard measurements is intended to result in
comparability of measurement data produced in a multi-vendor network, for
those measurement types that can be standardised across all vendors\'
implementations.
The structure of the present document is as follows:
\- Header 1: Network Element (e.g. measurements related to CSCF);
\- Header 2: Measurement function (e.g. Registration related measurements);
\- Header 3: Measurements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication > and/or edition number or version number) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.632: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Core Network Resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Concept and requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[8] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control protocol
based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol
(SDP); Stage 3\".
[9] 3GPP TS 29.228: \"IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem Cx and Dx Interfaces;
Signalling flows and message\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.229: \"Cx and Dx interfaces based on the Diameter protocol;
Protocol details\".
[11] 3GPP TS 29.163: \"Interworking between the IP Multimedia (IM) Core
Network (CN) subsystem and Circuit Switched (CS) networks\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.404: \"Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements -
Definitions and template\".
[13] 3GPP TS 29.207: \"Policy control over Go interface\".
[14] 3GPP TS 29.208: \"End-to-end Quality of Service (QoS) signalling flows\".
[15] IETF RFC 3588: \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
[16] 3GPP TS 23.008: \"Organization of subscriber data\".
[17] 3GPP TS 29.328: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Sh interface; Signalling
flows and message contents\".
[18] 3GPP TS 29.329: \"Sh interface based on the Diameter protocol; Protocol
details\".
[19] ITU-T Recommendation Q.850: \"Usage of cause and location in the Digital
Subscriber Signalling System No. 1 and the Signalling System No. 7 ISDN User
Part\".
[20] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1: \"Gateway control protocol: Version 3\".
[21] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.8: \"Gateway control protocol: Error code and
service change reason description\".
[22] IETF RFC 3265: \"Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)-Specific Event
Notification\".
[23] IETF RFC 3550: \"RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time Applications\".
[24] 3GPP TS 24.147: \"Conferencing using the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network
(CN) subsystem; Stage 3\".
[25] 3GPP TS 23.141: \"Presence service; Architecture and functional
description; Stage 2\".
[26] 3GPP TR 23.979: \"3GPP enablers for Open Mobile Alliance (OMA); Push-to-
talk over Cellular (PoC) services; Stage 2\".
[27] OMA-TS-XDM_Core: \"XML Document Management Specification\".
[28] 3GPP TS 33.203: \"3G security; Access security for IP-based services\".
[29] 3GPP TS 32.407: \"Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements
Core Network (CN) Circuit Switched (CS) domain\".
[30] 3GPP TS 32.732: \"Telecommunication management; IP Multimedia Subsystem
(IMS) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".
[31] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and charging control architecture\".
> [32] 3GPP TS 29.212: \"Policy and charging control over Gx reference
> point\".
[33] 3GPP TS 29.213: \"Policy and charging control signalling flows and
Quality of Service (QoS) parameter mapping\".
# 3 Measurement family and abbreviations
## 3.1 Measurement family
The measurement names defined in the present document are all beginning with a
prefix containing the measurement family name (e.g. UR.AttInitReg,
SC.AttOrigSession). This family name identifies all measurements which relate
to a given functionality and it may be used for measurement administration
(see 3GPP TS 32.401 [5]).
The list of families currently used in the present document is as follows:
\- CC (measurements related to Call Control).
\- CONF (measurements related to conference service).
\- DBU ( measurements related to Database Usage).
\- DTR (measurements related to Data Read).
\- DTU (measurements related to Data Update).
\- EQPT (measurements related to Equipment).
\- IDS (measurements related to Inter-network Domain Session).
\- LIQ (measurements related to Location Information Query).
\- MA (measurements related Multimedia Authentication).
\- NOTIF (measurements related to Notification).
\- PoC (measurements related to PoC service).
\- PRES (measurements related to Present service).
\- QoS (measurements related to Quality of Service).
\- RII (measurements related to Routing Information Interrogation).
\- RU (measurements related to Roaming Users).
\- SC (measurements related to Session Control).
\- SUB (Measurements related to Subscription to notifications).
\- UP (measurements related to User Profile).
\- UR (measurements related to UE registration).
\- XDM (measurements related to XDM enabler).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
3G 3^rd^ Generation
3GPP 3G Partnership Project
BGCF Breakout Gateway Control Function
CS Circuit switched
CN Core Network
CSCF Call Session Control Function
HSS Home Subscriber Server
IM IP Multimedia
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IBCF Interconnection Border Control Function
I-CSCF Interrogating CSCF
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
OA&M Operation, Administration and Maintenance
OS Operations System (EM, NM)
PCC Policy and Charging Control
PCEF Policy and Charging Enforcement Function
PCRF Policy and Charging Rule Function
PM Performance Management
P-CSCF Proxy CSCF
QoS Quality of Service
S-CSCF Serving CSCF
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
You can find below a list of abbreviations used within the measurement types
for field E of the measurement template (see 3GPP TS 32.404 [12]).
Ans Answer(ed)
Att Attempted
Auth Authorization
CCR Credit-Control-Request
CCA Credit-Control-Answer
Cs Circuit switched
DER Discrete Event Registration
DeReg De-Registration
Dmn Domain
Estab Establish(ment)
Fail Failed(/Failure)
Fwd Forwared(ed)
Glb Global
Info Information
Im IP Multimedia
Inc Incoming
Ind Indication
Init Initial
Interop Interoperator
LIA Location-Info-Answer
LIR Location-Info-Request
MAA Multimedia-Authentication-Answer
MAR Multimedia-Authentication-Request
Max Maximum
Modf Modify/Modification
Nbr Number
Ntwk Network
Orig Originated
Outg Outgoing
PM Page-Mode
PNA Push-Notification -Answer
PNR Push-Notification-Request
PPA Push-Profile-Answer
PPR Push-Profile-Request
Pri Private
PUA Profile-Update-Answer
Pub Public
PUR Profile-Update-Request
Reg Registration
Rej Rejected
Req Request
Rel Release
ReReg Re-Registration
Res Resource
Rsv Reserve/Reservation
Rmg Roaming
RTA Registration-Termination-Answer
RTR Registration-Termination-Request
SAA Server-Assignment-Answer
SAR Server-Assignment-Request
SNA Subscribe-Notifications-Answer
SNR Subscribe-Notifications-Request
Simul Simultaneous
SM Session-Mode
Srv Service
Succ Successful
Term Terminated
UAA User-Authorization-Answer
UAR User-Authorization-Request
UDA User-Data-Answer
UDR User-Data-Request
# 4 Functionality related measurements
The measurements defined in this clause are related to the functionality
aspect performance. The detailed measurements for each function are defined in
the following subclauses.
## 4.1 Measurements related to CSCF
Editor\'s note: with regards to each measurement defined for the CSCF, the
functionality (e.g. P-CSCF or S-CSCF) which the measurent is applicable for is
illustrated in bullet a) by the words \"This measurement is only valid for the
CSCF with *** functionality\", if there is no such kind of illustration in
bullet a), it means that this measurement is applicable for all of the P-CSCF,
S-CSCF and I-CSCF functionalities.
### 4.1.1 Registration related measurements
#### 4.1.1.1 Initial registration
The measurements defined in subclauses 4.1.1.1.1, 4.1.1.1.2 and 4.1.1.1.3 are
subject to the \"2 out of 3 approach\".
##### 4.1.1.1.1 Attempted initial registration procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted initial > registrations
at the CSCF. This measurement is only valid for the > CSCF with P-CSCF and/or
S-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the CSCF of a SIP_REGISTER message for the initial >
registration (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) UR.AttInitReg.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.1.1.1.2 Successful initial registration procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of successful initial registrations at
the CSCF. This measurement is only valid for the CSCF with P-CSCF and/or
S-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the CSCF of a SIP_200_OK message for the > initial
registration (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) UR.SuccInitReg.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.1.1.1.3 Failed initial registration procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of failed initial registration
procedures at the CSCF. The measurement is split into subcounters per response
status codes. This measurement is only valid for the CSCF with P-CSCF and/or
S-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the CSCF of a response message (e.g. SIP_4xx) indicating
a failed initial registration, each failed initial registration procedure is
added to the relevant measurement according to the status code. Possible
status codes are included in 3GPP TS 29.229 [10]. The sum of all supported per
status code measurements shall equal the total number of failed initial
registration procedures. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is
supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of measured status codes plus a possible sum measurement
identified by the .sum suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form UR.FailInitReg._Cause_ \ where _Cause_
identifies the status code.
f) CscfFunction
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS
##### 4.1.1.1.4 IMS initial registration set-up time (Mean)
a) This measurement provides the mean setup time of the successful IMS initial
registrations. This measurement is only valid for the CSCF with P-CSCF
functionality.
b) DER (n=1).
c) This measurement is obtained by accumulating the time intervals for every
successful IMS initial registration between the receipt by the P-CSCF from the
UE of a SIP_REGISTER message and the corresponding SIP_200_OK message for the
initial registration over a granularity period using DER. The end value of
this time will then be divided by the number of successful IMS initial
registrations observed in the granularity period to give the arithmetic mean,
the accumulator shall be reinitialised at the beginning of each granularity
period. See 3GPP TS 23.228 [7].
{width="3.6458333333333335in" height="2.0215277777777776in"}
Figure 1: UE registration procedure
d) A single integer value. (in milliseconds).
e) UR.MeanInitRegSetupTime.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
i) This measurement is mainly dedicated to Vendor Performance Modelling,
Operator Traffic Engineering and Vendor Development Engineering communities.
##### 4.1.1.1.5 Attempted initial registration procedures per access
technology
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted initial registrations
from the UE belonging to a given access technology. (Note: The P-Access-
Network-Info header is extended to include specific information relating to
particular access technologies. The UE shall populate the P-Access-Network-
Info header, with the following access-type tokens: \"3GPP-GERAN\",\"3GPP-
UTRAN-FDD\", \"3GPP-UTRAN-TDD\", \"3GPP2-1X\", \"IEEE-802.11a\" or
\"IEEE-802.11b\", etc., as appropriate to the access technology in use.). This
measurement is only valid for the CSCF with P-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the CSCF of a SIP_REGISTER message for the initial
registration. Each Register message with different access-type token in the
P-Access-Network-Info header for the initial registration is added to the
relevant measurement according to access technology (see 3GPP TS 24.229 [8]).
d) Each measurement is an integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form UR.AttInitReg._AT_ \ where _AT_
identifies the access technology the UE is belonging to.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.1.1.1.6 Successful initial registration procedures per access
technology
a) This measurement provides the number of successful initial registrations
from the UE belonging to a given access technology. This measurement is only
valid for the CSCF with P-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the CSCF of a SIP_200_OK message for the initial
registration, corresponding to the SIP_REGISTER message with different access-
type token in the P-Access-Network-Info header for the initial registration,
each successful initial registration is added to the relevant measurement
according to access technology (see 3GPP TS 24.229 [8]).
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form UR.SuccInitReg._AT\_ where _AT_
identifies the access technology the UE is belonging to.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.1.1.2 Re-registration
The measurements defined in subclauses 4.1.1.2.1, 4.1.1.2.2 and 4.1.1.2.3 are
subject to the \"2 out of 3 approach\".
##### 4.1.1.2.1 Attempted re-registration procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted re-registrations at the
CSCF. This measurement is only valid for the CSCF with P-CSCF and/or S-CSCF
functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the CSCF of a SIP_REGISTER message for the re-registration
(see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) UR.AttReReg.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.1.1.2.2 Successful re-registration procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of successful re-registrations at the
CSCF. This measurement is only valid for the CSCF with P-CSCF and/or S-CSCF
functionality.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the CSCF of a SIP_200_OK message for the re-registration
(see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) UR.SuccReReg.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.1.1.2.3 Failed re-registration procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of failed re-registration procedures
at the CSCF. The measurement is split into subcounters per response status
codes. This measurement is only valid for the CSCF with P-CSCF and/or S-CSCF
functionality.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the CSCF of a response message(e.g. SIP_4xx) indicating
a failed re-registration, each failed re-registration procedure is added to
the relevant measurement according to the status code. Possible status codes
are included in 3GPP TS 29.229 [10]. The sum of all supported per status code
measurements shall equal the total number of failed re-registration
procedures. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a
sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of measured per status code plus a possible _sum_ measurement
identified by the ._sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form UR.FailReReg._Cause_ \ where _Cause_
identifies the status code.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS
##### 4.1.1.2.4 Attempted re-registration procedures per access technology
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted re-registrations from the
UE belonging to a given access technology. (Note: The P-Access-Network-Info
header is extended to include specific information relating to particular
access technologies. The UE shall populate the P-Access-Network-Info header,
with the following access-type tokens: \"3GPP-GERAN\",\"3GPP-UTRAN-FDD\",
\"3GPP-UTRAN-TDD\", \"3GPP2-1X\", \"IEEE-802.11a\" or \"IEEE-802.11b\", etc.,
as appropriate to the access technology in use.). This measurement is only
valid for the CSCF with P-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the CSCF of a SIP_REGISTER message for the re-registration.
Each Register message with different access-type token in the P-Access-
Network-Info header for the re-registration is added to the relevant
measurement according to access technology (see 3GPP TS 24.229 [8]).
d) Each measurement is an integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form UR.AttReReg._AT_ \ where _AT_ identifies
the access technology the UE is belonging to.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.1.1.2.5 Successful re-registration procedures per access technology
a) This measurement provides the number of successful re-registrations from
the UE belonging to a given access technology. This measurement is only valid
for the CSCF with P-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the CSCF of a SIP_200_OK message for the re-
registration, corresponding to the SIP_REGISTER message with different access-
type token in the P-Access-Network-Info header for the re-registration, each
successful re-registration is added to the relevant measurement according to
access technology (see 3GPP TS 24.229 [8]).
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form UR.SuccReReg._AT\_ where _AT_ identifies
the access technology the UE is belonging to.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.1.1.3 De-registration
##### 4.1.1.3.1 De-registrations initiated by UE
The measurements defined in subclauses 4.1.1.3.1.1, 4.1.1.3.1.2 and
4.1.1.3.1.3 are subject to the \"2 out of 3 approach\".
##### 4.1.1.3.1.1 Attempted de-registration procedures initiated by UE
{#attempted-de-registration-procedures-initiated-by-ue .H6}
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted de-registrations
initiated by UE at the CSCF.\ This measurement is only valid for the CSCF with
P-CSCF and/or S-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the CSCF of a SIP_REGISTER message for the de-registration
(see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) UR.AttDeRegUe.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.1.1.3.1.2 Successful de-registration procedures initiated by UE
{#successful-de-registration-procedures-initiated-by-ue .H6}
a) This measurement provides the number of successful de-registrations
initiated by UE at the CSCF.\ This measurement is only valid for the CSCF with
P-CSCF and/or S-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the CSCF of a SIP_200_OK message corresponding to
SIP_REGISTER message for the de-registration (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) UR.SuccDeRegUe.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.1.1.3.1.3 Failed de-registration procedures initiated by UE {#failed-
de-registration-procedures-initiated-by-ue .H6}
a) This measurement provides the number of failed de-registration procedures
initiated by UE at the CSCF. The measurement is split into subcounters per
response status codes.\ This measurement is only valid for the CSCF with
P-CSCF and/or S-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the CSCF of a response message (e.g. SIP_4xx) indicating
a failed de-registration procedure initiated by UE, each failed de-
registration procedure initiated by UE is added to the relevant measurement
according to the status code. Possible status codes are included in 3GPP TS
29.229 [10]. The sum of all supported per status code measurements shall equal
the total number of failed de-registration procedures initiated by UE. In case
only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be
provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of measured status codes plus a possible sum measurement
identified by the ._sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form UR.FailDeRegUe._Cause_ \ where _Cause_
identifies the status code.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
###### 4.1.1.3.1.4 Attempted de-registrations initiated by UE per access
technology
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted de-registrations from the
UE belonging to a given access technology. (Note: The P-Access-Network-Info
header is extended to include specific information relating to particular
access technologies. The UE shall populate the P-Access-Network-Info header,
with the following access-type tokens: \"3GPP-GERAN\",\"3GPP-UTRAN-FDD\",
\"3GPP-UTRAN-TDD\", \"3GPP2-1X\", \"IEEE-802.11a\" or \"IEEE-802.11b\", etc.,
as appropriate to the access technology in use.). This measurement is only
valid for the CSCF with P-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the CSCF of a SIP_REGISTER message for the de-registration.
Each Register message with different access-type token in the P-Access-
Network-Info header for the de-registration is added to the relevant
measurement according to access technology (see 3GPP TS 24.229 [8]).
d) Each measurement is an integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form UR.AttDeRegUe.AT\ where AT identifies the
access technology the UE is belonging to.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
###### 4.1.1.3.1.5 Successful de-registrations initiated by UE per access
technology
a) This measurement provides the number of successful de-registrations from
the UE belonging to a given access technology. This measurement is only valid
for the CSCF with P-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the CSCF of a SIP_200_OK message for the de-
registration, corresponding to the SIP_REGISTER message with different access-
type token in the P-Access-Network-Info header for the de-registration, each
successful de-registration is added to the relevant measurement according to
access technology (see 3GPP TS 24.229 [8]).
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form UR.SuccDeRegUe._AT\_ where _AT_
identifies the access technology the UE is belonging to.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.1.1.3.2 De-registration initiated by HSS
The measurements defined in this subclause are subject to the \"2 out of 3
approach\".
##### 4.1.1.3.2.1 Attempted de-registration procedures initiated by HSS
{#attempted-de-registration-procedures-initiated-by-hss .H6}
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted de-registrations
initiated by HSS at the CSCF. This measurement is only valid for the CSCF with
S-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the S-CSCF of a Cx-Deregister message for the de-registration
initiated by HSS (see 3GPP TS 29.228 [9]).
d) A single integer value.
e) UR.AttDeRegHss.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.1.1.3.2.2 Successful de-registration procedures initiated by HSS
{#successful-de-registration-procedures-initiated-by-hss .H6}
a) This measurement provides the number of successful de-registrations
initiated by HSS at the CSCF. This measurement is only valid for the CSCF with
S-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the S-CSCF of a \"Cx-Deregister Resp\" message
indicating a successful de-registration initiated by HSS (see 3GPP TS 29.228
[9]).
d) A single integer value.
e) UR.SuccDeRegHss.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.1.1.3.2.3 Failed de-registration procedures initiated by HSS {#failed-
de-registration-procedures-initiated-by-hss .H6}
a) This measurement provides the number of failed de-registration procedures
initiated by HSS at the CSCF. The measurement is split into subcounters per
diameter result codes. This measurement is only valid for the CSCF with S-CSCF
functionality.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the CSCF of a response message(e.g. SIP_4xx) indicating
a failed de-registration procedure initiated by HSS, each failed de-
registration procedure initiated by HSS is added to the relevant measurement
according to the status code. Possible status codes are included in 3GPP TS
29.229 [10]. The sum of all supported per status code measurements shall equal
the total number of failed de-registration procedures initiated by HSS. In
case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter
will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of measured result code plus a possible sum measurement
identified by the ._sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form UR.FailDeRegHss._Cause_ \ where _Cause_
identifies the Diameter result code.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.1.1.3.3 De-registration initiated by service platform
The measurements defined in this subclause are subject to the \"2 out of 3
approach\".
##### 4.1.1.3.3.1 Attempted de-registration procedures initiated by service
platform {#attempted-de-registration-procedures-initiated-by-service-platform
.H6}
a) This measurement provides the number attempted of de-registrations
initiated by service platform at the CSCF. This measurement is only valid for
the CSCF with S-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the S-CSCF of a SIP_NOTIFY message indicating a de-
registration initiated by service platform (see 3GPP TS 24.229 [8]).
d) A single integer value.
e) UR.AttDeRegSrvPlatform.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.1.1.3.3.2 Successful de-registration procedures initiated by service
platform {#successful-de-registration-procedures-initiated-by-service-platform
.H6}
a) This measurement provides the number of successful de-registrations
initiated by service platform at the CSCF. This measurement is only valid for
the CSCF with S-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the S-CSCF of a SIP_200_OK message corresponding to the
SIP_NOTIFY message indicating a de-registration initiated by service platform
(see 3GPP TS 24.229 [8]).
d) A single integer value.
e) UR.SuccDeRegSrvPlatform.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.1.1.3.3.3 Failed de-registration procedures initiated by service
platform {#failed-de-registration-procedures-initiated-by-service-platform
.H6}
a) This measurement provides the number of failed de-registration procedures
initiated by service platform at the CSCF. The measurement is split into
subcounters per response status codes. This measurement is only valid for the
CSCF with S-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the CSCF of a response message(e.g. SIP_4xx) indicating a
failed de-registration procedure initiated by service platform, each failed
de-registration procedure initiated by service platform is added to the
relevant measurement according to the status code. Possible status codes are
included in 3GPP TS 29.229 [10]. The sum of all supported per status code
measurements shall equal the total number of failed de-registration procedures
initiated by service platform. In case only a subset of per cause measurements
is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of the measured status codes plus a possible sum measurement
identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form UR.FailDeRegSrvPlatform._Cause_ \ where
_Cause_ identifies the status code.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.1.1.4 Third party registration
The measurements defined in this subclause are subject to the \"2 out of 3
approach\".
##### 4.1.1.4.1 Attempted third party registration procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted third-party registrations
triggered by CSCF. This measurement is only valid for the CSCF with S-CSCF
functionality.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the S-CSCF of a SIP_REGISTER message for the third party
registration (see 3GPP TS 24.229 [8]).
d) A single integer value.
e) UR.Att3rdPartyReg.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.1.1.4.2 Successful third party registration procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of successful third-party
registrations triggered by CSCF. This measurement is only valid for the CSCF
with S-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the S-CSCF of a SIP_200_OK message for the third party
registration (see 3GPP TS 24.229 [8]).
d) A single integer value.
e) UR.Succ3rdPartyReg.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.1.1.4.3 Failed third party registration procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of failed third-party registrations
triggered by CSCF.
b) CC.
```{=html}
``` i) On receipt by the CSCF of a response message(e.g. SIP_4xx) indicating a
failed third party registration procedure, each failed third party
registration procedure is added to the relevant measurement according to the
status code. Possible status codes are included in 3GPP TS 29.229 [10]. The
sum of all supported per status code measurements shall equal the total number
of failed third party registration procedures. In case only a subset of per
cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
```{=html}
``` c) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is
equal to the number of the measured status codes plus a possible sum
measurement identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
d) A single integer value. The number of measurements is equal to the number
of the measured status codes plus a possible sum measurement identified by the
_.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form UR.Fail3rdPartyReg._Cause_.\ where
_Cause_ identifies the status code.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.1.1.5 User registration status query
The measurements defined in this subclause are subject to the \"2 out of 3
approach\".
##### 4.1.1.5.1 Attempted user registration status query procedures
a) This measurement provides number of attempted User registration status
query procedures at the CSCF. This measurement is only valid for the CSCF with
I-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the I-CSCF of a User-Authorization-Request Diameter
command to the HSS (see 3GPP TS 29.229 [9]).
d) A single integer value.
\- UR.AttUAR.
e) CscfFunction.
f) Valid for packet switched traffic.
g) IMS.
##### 4.1.1.5.2 Successful user registration status query procedures
a) This measurement provides number of successful user registration status
query procedures at the CSCF. This measurement is only valid for the CSCF with
I-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the I-CSCF of a User-Authorization-Answer Diameter command
from HSS indicating that the User Authorization Request is successful with the
specific result code, each successful user registration status query procedure
is added to the relevant measurement according to the successful result code.
Possible successful result codes are included in 3GPP TS 29.229 [10]. The sum
of all supported per result code measurements shall equal the total number of
successful User registration status query procedures. In case only a subset of
per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of result codes plus a possible sum value identified by the
._sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form UR.SuccUAA._ResultCode\_ where
_ResultCode_ identifies the successful Result Code.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.1.1.5.3 Failed user registration status query procedures
a) This measurement provides number of user registration status query
procedures rejected by HSS for the specific causes. The measurement is split
into subcounters per failure cause. This measurement is only valid for the
CSCF with I-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the I-CSCF of a User-Authorization-Answer Diameter command
from HSS indicating that the User Authorization Request is rejected for the
specific cause, each failed user registration status query procedure is added
to the relevant measurement according to the failure cause. Possible failure
causes are included in 3GPP TS 29.229 [10]. The sum of all supported per cause
measurements shall equal the total number of failed User registration status
query procedures. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is
supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the ._sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form UR.FailUAA._Cause\_ where _Cause_
identifies the failure cause. The following subcounters with specific failure
causes (see 3GPP TS 29.229 [10]) are required:
\- UR.NbrFailUAA.5002 Result-Code: DIAMETER_ERROR_IDENTITIES_DONT_MATCH;
\- UR.NbrFailUAA.5004 Result-Code: DIAMETER_ERROR_ROAMING_NOT_ALLOWED;
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.1.1.6 S-CSCF registration/deregistration notification
The measurements defined in this subclause are subject to the \"2 out of 3
approach\".
##### 4.1.1.6.1 Attempted S-CSCF registration/deregistration notification
procedures
a) This measurement provides number of attempted S-CSCF
registration/deregistration notification procedures. This measurement is only
valid for the CSCF with S-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the S-CSCF of a Server-Assignment-Request Diameter
command to the HSS (see 3GPP TS 29.228 [9]).
d) A single integer value.
e) UR.AttSAR.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.1.1.6.2 Successful S-CSCF registration/deregistration notification
procedures
a) This measurement provides number of successful S-CSCF
registration/deregistration notification procedures. This measurement is only
valid for the CSCF with S-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the S-CSCF of a Server-Assignment-Answer Diameter command
from the HSS indicating a successful S-CSCF registration/deregistration
notification **procedure** (see 3GPP TS 29.228 [9]).
d) A single integer value.
e) UR.SuccSAA.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.1.1.6.3 Failed S-CSCF registration/deregistration notification
procedures
a) This measurement provides number of failed S-CSCF
registration/deregistration notification procedures. The measurement is split
into subcounters per failure cause. This measurement is only valid for the
CSCF with S‑CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the S-CSCF of a Server-Assignment-Answer Diameter command
from HSS indicating the S‑CSCF registration/deregistration notification
**procedure is failed** for the specific cause, each failed S-CSCF
registration/deregistration notification procedure is added to the relevant
measurement according to the failure cause. Possible failure causes are
included in TS 29.229 [10]. The sum of all supported per cause measurements
shall equal the total number of failed S-CSCF registration/deregistration
notification procedures. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is
supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the ._sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form UR.FailSAA._Cause\_ where _Cause_
identifies the failure cause.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.1.2 Session control related measurements
The measurements defined in subclauses 4.1.2.1, 4.1.2.2 and 4.1.2.4 are
subject to the \"2 out of 3 approach\".
#### 4.1.2.1 Attempted session establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted session establishments at
CSCF.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the CSCF of an initial SIP_INVITE message (see 3GPP TS 23.228
[7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) SC.AttSession.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.1.2.2 Successful session establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of successful session establishments
at the CSCF. The measurement is split into subcounters per message type (e.g.
SIP_180) indicating the successful session establishments.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the CSCF of the first response message (e.g. SIP_180)
indicating a successful session establishment corresponding to the initial
SIP_INVITE message (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]), each successful session
establishment is added to the relevant measurement according to the message
type, the possible response message types are identified in 3GPP TS 24.229
[8]. The sum of all supported per message type measurements shall equal the
total number of successful session establishments. In case only a subset of
per message type measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided
first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of message types plus a possible sum value identified by the
._sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form SC.SuccSession._type\_ where _type_
identifies the message type.
The following subcounters with specific message types are the samples of this
measurement:
\- SC.SuccSession.180 Message type: SIP_180;
\- SC.SuccSession.200 Message type: SIP_200_OK only if the SIP_180 has not
been sent for this session.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.1.2.3 Answered session establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of answered session establishments at
the CSCF.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the CSCF of a SIP_200_OK response message corresponding
to the initial SIP_INVITE messages (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) SC.AnsSession.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.1.2.4 Failed session establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of failed session establishments at
the CSCF. The measurement is split into subcounters per response status codes.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the CSCF of a response message (e.g. SIP_430) indicating
a failed session establishment corresponding to the initial SIP_INVITE
messages (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]), each failed session establishment is added
to the relevant measurement according to the status code. The sum of all
supported per status code measurements shall equal the total number of failed
session establishments. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is
supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the ._sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form SC.FailSession._Cause_ \ where _Cause_
identifies the status code.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.1.2.5 Simultaneous online and answered sessions (Maximum)
a) This measurement provides the maximum number of simultaneous online
sessions which have been answered at the CSCF.
b) SI.
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined interval the
number of simultaneous online sessions which have been answered and then
taking the maximum.
d) A single integer value.
e) SC.NbrSimulAnsSessionMax.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.1.3 User location query related measurements
The measurements defined in this subclause are subject to the \"2 out of 3
approach\".
#### 4.1.3.1 Attempted user location query procedures
a) This measurement provides number of attempted user location query
procedures. This measurement is only valid for the CSCF with I-CSCF
functionality.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the I-CSCF of a Location-Info-Request Diameter command
to the HSS (see 3GPP TS 29.228 [9]).
d) A single integer value.
e) LIQ.AttLIR.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.1.3.2 Successful user location query procedures
a) This measurement provides number of successful user **location query**
procedures. This measurement is only valid for the CSCF with I-CSCF
functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the I-CSCF of a Location-Info-Answer Diameter command from
the HSS indicating a successful **location information query procedure** (see
3GPP TS 29.228 [9]).
d) A single integer value.
e) LIQ.SuccLIA.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.1.3.3 Failed user location query procedures
a) This measurement provides number of failed user **location query**
procedures. The measurement is split into subcounters per failure cause. This
measurement is only valid for the CSCF with I-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the I-CSCF of a Location-Info-Answer Diameter command from
HSS indicating the user **location query is failed** for the specific cause,
each failed user **location query** procedure is added to the relevant
measurement according to the failure cause. Possible failure causes are
included in 3GPP TS 29.229 [10]. The sum of all supported per cause
measurements shall equal the total number of failed user **location query**
procedures. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a
sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the ._sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form LIQ.FailLIA._Cause\_ where _Cause_
identifies the failure cause.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.1.4 Inter-network domain calling related measurements
#### 4.1.4.1 Attempted session establishments from users of other **network**
domains
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted session establishments
originated from the users (regardless of whether the user is roaming or not)
who are belonging to other network domains at the CSCF in the terminating
network. The measurement is split into subcounters per network domain. This
measurement is only valid for the CSCF with S-CSCF and/or I-CSCF
functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the CSCF of a SIP_ INVITE message, and the calling party is
belonging to other network domains (i.e. the domain name information of the
calling party retrieved from the SIP_INVITE message is different from the
domain of this CSCF). Each session whose calling party recognized by the CSCF
as belonging to a given network domain is added to the relevant per network
domain measurement. The sum of all supported per network domain measurements
shall equal the total number of attempted session establishments from users of
other **network** domains. In case only a subset of per network measurements
is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first (see 3GPP TS 23.228
[7]).
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of network domain plus a possible sum value identified by the
_.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form IC.AttSessionFromOtherNtwkDmn._Domain_ \
where _Domain_ identifies the network domain, and it is in the format of the
domain name information in the SIP messages.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.1.4.2 403 **(** Forbidden**) generated for** sessions from users of
other **network** domains
a) This measurement provides the number of SIP_403 (Forbidden) response
messages at the CSCF in the terminating network generated for the sessions
from users of other **network** domains. The measurement is split into
subcounters per network domain. This measurement is only valid for the CSCF
with S-CSCF and/or I-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the CSCF of SIP_403 message corresponding to the SIP_
INVITE message of which the calling party is belonging to other network
domains received by the CSCF. Each SIP_403 message generated by the CSCF for
the session whose calling party is belonging to a given network domain is
added to the relevant per network domain measurement. The sum of all supported
per network domain measurements shall equal the total number of 403 **(**
Forbidden**) generated for** sessions from users of other **network** domains.
In case only a subset of per network measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter will be provided first (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of network domain plus a possible sum value identified by the
_.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form IC.403SessionFromOtherNtwkDmn._Domain_ \
where _Domain_ identifies the network domain, and it is in the format of the
domain name information in the SIP messages.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.1.4.3 Attempted session establishments to users of other **network**
domains
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted session establishments
towards users (regardless of whether the user is roaming or not) who are
belonging to other network domains at the CSCF in the originating network. The
measurement is split into subcounters per network domain. This measurement is
only valid for the CSCF with S-CSCF and/or I-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the CSCF of a SIP_ INVITE messages, and the called party
is belonging to other network domains (i.e. the domain name information of the
called party retrieved from the SIP_INVITE message is different from the
domain of this CSCF). Each session whose called party recognized by the CSCF
as belonging to a given network domain is added to the relevant per network
domain measurement. The sum of all supported per network measurements shall
equal the total number of attempted session establishments to users of other
**network** domains. In case only a subset of per network measurements is
supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of network domain plus a possible sum value identified by the
_.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form IC.AttSessionToOtherNtwkDmn._Domain_ \
where _Domain_ identifies the network domain, and it is in the format of the
domain name information in the SIP messages.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.1.4.4 403 **(** Forbidden**) received for** sessions to users of other
**network** domains
a) This measurement provides the number of SIP_403 (Forbidden) response
messages received for sessions to users of other **network** domains at the
CSCF in the originating network. The measurement is split into subcounters per
network domain. This measurement is only valid for the CSCF with S-CSCF and/or
I-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the CSCF of SIP_403 message corresponding to the SIP_ INVITE
message corresponding to the SIP_ INVITE message of which the called party is
belonging to other network domains transmitted by the CSCF. Each SIP_403
message received by the CSCF for the session whose called party is belonging
to a given network domain is added to the relevant per network domain
measurement. The sum of all supported per network domain measurements shall
equal the total number of 403 **(** Forbidden**) received for** sessions to
users of other **network** domains. In case only a subset of per network
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first (see 3GPP
TS 23.228 [7]).
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of network domain plus a possible sum value identified by the
_.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form IC.403SessionToOtherNtwkDmn._Domain_ \
where _Domain_ identifies the network domain, and it is in the format of the
domain name information in the SIP messages.
f) CscfFunction
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.1.5 Roaming users related measurements
#### 4.1.5.1 Initial registrations of visiting users from other IMS network
domains
a) This measurement provides number of initial registrations of users
accessing the visited IMS network but are belonging other IMS network domains.
The measurement is split into subcounters per IMS network domain. This
measurement is only valid for the CSCF with P-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the P-CSCF of the SIP_REGISTER message from the UE who is
belonging to other network domains (i.e. the domain name information of the
roamer retrieved from the SIP_REGISTER message is different from the domain of
this CSCF) for the initial registration. Each roamer recognized by the P-CSCF
as belonging to a given IMS network domain is added to the relevant per IMS
network domain measurement. The sum of all supported per IMS network domain
measurements shall equal the total number of **visiting users**. In case only
a subset of per IMS network domain measurements is supported, a sum subcounter
will be provided first (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of IMS network domain plus a possible sum value identified by
the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form RU.AttInitRegOfVisitUsers._Domain_ \
where _Domain_ identifies the network domain, and it is in the format of the
domain name information in the SIP messages.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.1.5.2 Number of SIP 403 (Forbidden) messages for the roamers
a) This measurement provides the number of 403-Forbidden response messages
generated to UEs who are belonging to other IMS network domains with whom
there are roaming agreements for the registration procedures. The measurement
is split into subcounters per network domain. This measurement is only valid
for the CSCF with P-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the P-CSCF of a SIP_403 (Forbidden) response message to
the UE who is belonging to other IMS networks for the initial registration
procedure. Each SIP_403 message transmitted by the P-CSCF for the roamer who
is belonging to a given network domain is added to the relevant per network
domain measurement. The sum of all supported per network domain measurements
shall equal the total number of 403 **(** Forbidden**) generated for the
roamers who** are belonging to other IMS network domains. In case only a
subset of per network measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be
provided first (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of IMS network domain plus a possible sum value identified by
the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form RU.Nbr403InitRegOfVisitUsers._Domain\_
where _Domain_ identifies the network domain, and it is in the format of the
domain name information in the SIP messages.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.1.5.3 Roaming users to other IMS network domains
a) This measurement provides the number of the roamers visiting other IMS
network domains. This measurement is only valid for the CSCF with S-CSCF
functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the S-CSCF of a SIP_REGISTER message from the P-CSCF which is
belonging to other IMS network domains.
d) A single integer value.
e) RU.RmgUsersOut.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.1.6 Authentication related measurements
The measurements defined in this subclause are subject to the \"2 out of 3
approach\".
#### 4.1.6.1 Attempted Authentication procedures
a) This measurement provides number of attempted A**uthentication**
procedures. This measurement is only valid for the CSCF with S-CSCF
functionality.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the S-CSCF of a Multimedia-Authentication-Request
Diameter command to the HSS (see 3GPP TS 29.228 [9]).
d) A single integer value.
e) MA.AttMAR.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.1.6.2 Successful Authentication procedures
a) This measurement provides number of successful **Authentication**
procedures. This measurement is only valid for the CSCF with S-CSCF
functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the S-CSCF of a Multimedia-Authentication-Answer Diameter
command from the HSS indicating a successful **authentication procedure** (see
3GPP TS 29.228 [9]).
d) A single integer value.
e) MA.SuccMAA.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.1.6.3 Failed Authentication procedures
a) This measurement provides number of failed **Authentication** procedures.
The measurement is split into subcounters per failure cause. This measurement
is only valid for the CSCF with S-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the S-CSCF of a Multimedia-Authentication-Answer Diameter
command from HSS indicating the **authentication procedure is failed** for the
specific cause, each failed **authentication** procedure is added to the
relevant measurement according to the failure cause. Possible failure causes
are included in 3GPP TS 29.229 [10].\ And each expected Multimedia-
Authentication-Answer Diameter command not received by the S-CSCF is added
into failure cause \'No Reply\' (not specified in 3GPP TS 29.229 [10]).\ The
sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the total number of
failed **authentication** procedures. In case only a subset of per cause
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the ._sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form MA.FailMAA._Cause\_ where _Cause_
identifies the failure cause.\ The cause \'No Reply\' is identified by the
_.NoReply_ suffix.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.1.7 HSS initiated update of User Profile related measurements
The measurements defined in this subclause are subject to the \"2 out of 3
approach\".
#### 4.1.7.1 Attempted HSS initiated User Profile Update **procedures**
a) This measurement provides number of attempted HSS initiated user profile
update procedures. This measurement is only valid for the CSCF with S-CSCF
functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the S-CSCF of a Push-Profile-Request Diameter command from
the HSS (see 3GPP TS 29.228 [9]).
d) A single integer value.
e) UP.AttPPR.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.1.7.2 Successful HSS initiated User Profile Update **procedures**
a) This measurement provides number of successful HSS initiated user profile
update procedures. This measurement is only valid for the CSCF with S-CSCF
functionality.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the S-CSCF to the HSS of a Push-Profile-Answer Diameter
command indicating a successful user profile update **procedure** (see 3GPP TS
29.228 [9]).
d) A single integer value.
e) UP.SuccPPA.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.1.7.3 Failed HSS initiated user profile update **procedures**
a) This measurement provides number of failed HSS initiated user profile
update procedures. The measurement is split into subcounters per failure
cause. This measurement is only valid for the CSCF with S-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the S-CSCF to the HSS of a Push-Profile-Answer Diameter
command indicating the user profile update **procedure is failed** for the
specific cause, each failed user profile update procedure is added to the
relevant measurement according to the failure cause. Possible failure causes
are included in 3GPP TS 29.229 [10]. The sum of all supported per cause
measurements shall equal the total number of failed user profile update
procedures. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a
sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the ._sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form UP.FailPPA._Cause\_ where _Cause_
identifies the failure cause.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.1.8 Subscription procedure related measurements
The measurements defined in this subclause are subject to the \"2 out of 3
approach\".
#### 4.1.8.1 Number of attempted Subscription procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of initial subscriptions > attempted
at the CSCF with S-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the CSCF of an initial SIP_SUBSCRIBE message (see TS > 24.229
[8]).
d) A single integer value.
e) SUB.AttSubscribe.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.1.8.2 Number of successful Subscription procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of successful subscription
establishments received at the CSCF with S-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the CSCF of a response message with a response code
(e.g. SIP_200_OK) indicating a successful subscription setup corresponding to
the initial SIP_SUBSCRIBE message (see TS 24.229 [8]).
d) A single integer value.
e) SUB.SuccSubscribe.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.1.8.3 Number of failed Subscription procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of failed subscription establishments
at the CSCF. The measurement is split into subcounters per response codes.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the CSCF of a response message with a response code
(e.g. SIP_430) indicating a failed subscription establishment corresponding to
the initial SIP_SUBSCRIBE message (see TS 24.229 [8]), each failed
subscription establishment trial is added to the relevant measurement
according to the message type. In case only a subset of per message type
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of message types plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form SUB.FailedSubscribe._Cause_ \ where
_Cause_ identifies the response code.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.1.9 Notify procedure related measurements
The measurements defined in this subclause are subject to the \"2 out of 3
approach\".
#### 4.1.9.1 Number of emitted Notify procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of emitted Notify SIP messages at the
CSCF with S-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the CSCF of a SIP_NOTIFY message (see TS 24.229 [8]).
d) A single integer value.
e) NOTIF.EmittedNotify.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.1.9.2 Number of successful Notify procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of successful Notify messages at the
CSCF with S-CSCF functionality.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the CSCF of a response message with response code (e.g.
SIP_200_OK) indicating a successful response corresponding to the emited
SIP_NOTIFY message (see TS 24.229 [8]).
d) A single integer value.
e) NOTIF.SuccNotify.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.1.9.3 Number of failed Notify procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of failed Notify messages at the CSCF
with S-CSCF functionality. The measurement is split into subcounters per
response codes.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the CSCF of a response message with response code (e.g.
SIP_430) indicating a failed response corresponding to the SIP_NOTIFY message
(see TS 24.229 [8]), each failed Notify message trial is added to the relevant
measurement according to the message type. In case only a subset of per
message type measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided
first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of message types plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form NOTIF.FailedNotify._Cause_ \ where
_Cause_ identifies the response code.
f) CscfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
## 4.2 Measurements related to HSSBGCF
### 4.2.1 HSS database usage related measurements
#### 4.2.1.1 Provisioning related measurements
##### 4.2.1.1.1 Number of provisioned IMS subscriptions currently stored in a
HSS
a) This measurement provides the number of provisioned IMS subscriptions
currently stored in a HSS.
b) Gauge.
c) Incremented when a IMS subscription (3GPP TS 23.228 [7]) is provisioned in
the HSS and decremented when a subscription is removed from the HSS.
d) A single integer value.
e) DBU.NbrImsSubscription.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.2.1.1.2 Number of provisioned Private User Identity stored in a HSS
a) This measurement provides the number of provisioned Private User Identity
currently stored in a HSS.
b) Gauge.
c) Incremented when a Private User Identity is provisioned in the HSS and
decremented when a Private User Identity is removed from the HSS (3GPP TS
23.008 [16]).
d) A single integer value.
e) DBU.NbrPriUserId.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.2.1.1.3 Number of provisioned Public User Identities with SIP URI
format stored in a HSS
a) This measurement provides the number of provisioned Public User Identities
with SIP URI format stored in a HSS.
b) Gauge.
c) Incremented when a Public User Identity with SIP URI format (3GPP TS 23.008
[16]) is provisioned in the HSS and decremented when a Public User Identity
with SIP URI format is removed from the HSS.
d) A single integer value.
e) DBU.NbrSipPubUserId.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.2.1.1.4 Number of provisioned Public User Identities with TEL URI
format stored in a HSS
a) This measurement provides the number of provisioned Public User Identities
with TEL URI format stored in a HSS.
b) Gauge.
c) Incremented when a Public User Identity with TEL URI format (3GPP TS 23.008
[16]) is provisioned in the HSS and decremented when a Public User identity
with TEL URI format is removed from the HSS.
d) A single integer value.
e) DBU.NbrTelPubUserId.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.2.1.1.5 Number of Private Service Identities stored in a HSS
a) This measurement provides the number of Private Service Identities
currently stored in a HSS.
b) Gauge.
c) Incremented when a Private Service Identity (3GPP TS 23.008 [16]) is
provisioned in the HSS and decremented when a Private Service Identity is
removed from the HSS.
d) A single integer value.
e) DBU.NbrPriSrvId.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.2.1.1.6 Number of Public Service Identities with SIP URI format stored
in a HSS
a) This measurement provides the number of Public Service Identities with SIP
URI format stored in a HSS.
b) Gauge.
c) Incremented when a Public Service Identity with SIP URI format (3GPP TS
23.008 [16]) is provisioned in the HSS and decremented when a Public Service
Identity with SIP URI format is removed from the HSS.
d) A single integer value.
e) DBU.NbrSipPubSrvId.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.2.1.1.7 Number of Public Service Identities with TEL URI format stored
in a HSS
a) This measurement provides the number of Public Service Identities with TEL
URI format stored in a HSS.
b) Gauge.
c) Incremented when a Public Service Identity with TEL URI format (3GPP TS
23.008 [16]) is provisioned in the HSS and decremented when a Public Service
Identity with TEL URI format is removed from the HSS.
d) A single integer value.
e) DBU.NbrTelPubSrvId.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.2.1.2 Registration Status related measurements
##### 4.2.1.2.1 Number of Public User Identities in registered state
a) This measurement provides the number of Public User Identities in
registered state stored in a HSS. The measurement is split into subcounters
per visited network domain.
b) Gauge.
c) Incremented when a Public User Identity\'s Registration Status changes to
\"registered\", and decremented when a Public User Identity\'s Registration
Status changes from \"registered\".
d) An integer value.
e) DBU.NbrRegPubUserId._RoamingDomain\ where RoamingDomain identifies_ the
Domain Name of the visited network that a registration is initiated from.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.2.1.2.2 Number of Public User Identities in unregistered state
a) This measurement provides the number of Public User Identities in
unregistered state stored in a HSS.
b) Gauge.
c) Incremented when a Public User Identity\'s Registration Status changes to
\"unregistered\" and decremented when a Public User Identity\'s Registration
Status changes from \"unregistered\".
d) An integer value.
e) DBU.NbrUnregPubUserId.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.2.1.2.3 Number of Private User Identities in registered state
a) This measurement provides the number of Private User Identities that have
been used in the registration of one or more currently registered Public User
Identities stored in a HSS.
b) Gauge.
c) Incremented on the emergence of the first registered Public User Identity
associated with a Private User Identity and decremented on the deregistration
of the last registered Public User Identity associated with a Private User
Identity.
d) An integer value.
e) DBU.NbrRegPriUsrId.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.2.2 User registration status query related measurements
The measurements defined in this subclause are subject to the "2 out of 3
approach".
Figure 2
#### 4.2.2.1 Attempted user registration status queries
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted user registration >
status queries received by a HSS from the I-CSCF.
b) CC.
c) On receipt of a Diameter command User-Authorization-Request (UAR) by > the
HSS from the I-CSCF. (3GPP TS 29.228 [9]).
d) A single integer value.
e) UR.AttUAR.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit Switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.2.2.2 Successful user registration status queries
a) This measurement provides the number of successfully performed user >
registration status queries by a HSS. The measurement can be split > into
subcounters per the success cause.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by HSS of Diameter command User-Authorization-Answer >
(UAA) with Result Code of either DIAMETER_SUCCESS, >
DIAMETER_SUBSEQUENT_REGISTRATION or > DIAMETER_FIRST_REGISTRATION to the
I-CSCF (3GPP TS 29.228 [9], > 3GPP TS 29.229 [10]), each failed user
registration status query > procedure is added to the relevant measurement
according to the > success cause. The sum of all supported per cause
measurements > shall equal the total number of successful User registration >
status query procedures. In case only a subset of per cause > measurements is
supported, a sum subcounter will be provided > first.
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) The measurement name has the form UR.SuccUAA._Cause_ \ where _Cause_
identifies the successful cause. The _Cause_ shall be the cause code of one of
the three success causes defined in bullet c) when constructing the
measurement name,
```{=html}
``` f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit Switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.2.2.3 Failed user registration status queries
a) This measurement provides the number of failed user registration status
query procedures processed by a HSS. The measurement is split into subcounters
per the failure cause.
b) CC
c) On transmission by the HSS of Diameter command User-Authorization-Answer
(UAA) with a Result Code other than DIAMETER_SUCCESS,
DIAMETER_SUBSEQUENT_REGISTRATION or DIAMETER_FIRST_REGISTRATION (3GPP TS
29.228 [9]) to the I-CSCF, each failed user registration status query
procedure is added to the relevant measurement according to the failure cause.
Possible failure causes are included in 3GPP TS 29.229 [10]. The sum of all
supported per cause measurements shall equal the total number of failed User
registration status query procedures. In case only a subset of per cause
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement (as defined in e) is an integer value. The number of
measurements is equal to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum
value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form UR.FailUAA._Cause\_ where _Cause_
identifies the failure.cause.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit Switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.2.3 S-CSCF registration/de-registration notification related
measurements
The measurements defined in this subclause are subject to the "2 out of 3
approach".
Figure 3
#### 4.2.3.1 Attempted S-CSCF registration/de-registration notifications
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted S-CSCF
registration/deregistration notifications received by a HSS.
b) CC.
c) On receipt of Diameter command Server-Assignment-Request (SAR) by > the HSS
from the S-CSCF (3GPP TS 29.228 [9]).
d) A single integer value.
e) UR.AttSAR.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.2.3.2 Successful S-CSCF registration/de-registration notifications
a) This measurement provides the number of successfully performed S-CSCF
registration/deregistration notifications by a HSS.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by HSS of Diameter command Server-Assignment-Answer > (UAA)
with Result Code of DIAMETER_SUCCESS (3GPP TS 29.228 [9]) > to the S-CSCF.
d) A single integer value.
e) UR.SuccSAA.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.2.3.3 Failed S-CSCF registration/de-registration notifications
a) This measurement provides the number of failed S-CSCF
registration/deregistration notification procedures by a HSS with the S-CSCF.
The measurement is split into subcounters per the failure cause.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the HSS of Diameter command Server-Assignment-Answer
(UAA) with a Result Code other than DIAMETER_SUCCESS (3GPP TS 29.228 [9]) to
the S-CSCF, each S-CSCF Registration/Deregistration notification procedure is
added to the relevant measurement according to the failure cause. Possible
failure causes are included in 3GPP TS 29.229 [10]. The sum of all supported
per cause measurements shall equal the total number of failed S-CSCF
Registration/Deregistration notification procedures. In case only a subset of
per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement (as defined in e) is an integer value. The number of
measurements is equal to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum
value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form UR.FailSAA._Cause\_ where _Cause_
identifies the failure cause.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.2.4 Network initiated de-registration by the HSS related measurements
The measurements defined in this subclause are subject to the "2 out of 3
approach".
Figure 4
#### 4.2.4.1 Attempted network initiated de-registrations by HSS
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted network initiated de-
registration procedures by a HSS.
b) CC.
c) On transmission of Diameter command Registration-Termination-Request (RTR)
by the HSS to the S-CSCF (3GPP TS 29.228 [9]).
d) A single integer value.
e) UR.AttRTR.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.2.4.2 Successful network initiated de-registrations by HSS
a) This measurement provides the number of successfully performed network
initiated de-registration by a HSS.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by HSS of Diameter command Registration-Termination-Anser (RTA)
with Result Code of DIAMETER_SUCCESS (3GPP TS 29.228 [9]) from the S-CSCF.
d) A single integer value.
e) UR.SuccRTA.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.2.4.3 Failed network initiated de-registrations by HSS
a) This measurement provides the number of failed network initiated de-
registration procedures perceived by a HSS from the S-CSCF. The measurement is
split into subcounters per the failure cause.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the HSS of Diameter command Registration-Termination-Answer
(RTA) with Result Code other than DIAMETER_SUCCESS (3GPP TS 29.228 [9]) from
the S-CSCF, each failed network initiated de-registration by HSS is added to
the relevant measurement according to the failure cause. Possible failure
causes are included in 3GPP TS 29.229 [10].\ And each expected Diameter
command Registration-Termination-Aswer (RTA) not received by the HSS is added
into failure cause \'No Reply\' (not specified in 3GPP TS 29.229 [10]).\ The
sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the total number of
failed network initiated de-registrations. In case only a subset of per cause
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement (as defined in e) is an integer value. The number of
measurements is equal to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum
value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form UR.FailRTA._Cause:\_ where _Cause_
identifies the failure cause.\ The cause \'No Reply\' is identified by the
_.NoReply_ suffix.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.2.5 User location query related measurements
The measurements defined in this subclause are subject to the \"2 out of 3
approach\".
Figure 5
#### 4.2.5.1 Attempted user location queries
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted user location queries
received by a HSS from the I-CSCF.
b) CC.
c) On receipt of Diameter command Location-Info-Request (LIR) by the HSS from
the I-CSCF (3GPP TS 29.228 [9]).
d) A single integer value.
e) LIQ.AttLIR.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.2.5.2 Successful user location queries
a) This measurement provides the number of successfully performed user
location queries by a HSS from the I‑CSCF.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by HSS of Diameter command Location-Info-Answer (LIA) with
Result Code of DIAMETER_SUCCESS (3GPP TS 29.228 [9]) to the I-CSCF.
d) A single integer value.
e) LIQ.SuccLIA.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.2.5.3 Failed user location queries
a) This measurement provides the number of failed user location queries
procedures by a HSS with the I-CSCF. The measurement is split into subcounters
per the failure cause.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the HSS of Diameter command Location-Info-Answer (LIA)
with a Result Code other than DIAMETER_SUCCESS (3GPP TS 29.228 [9]) to the
I-CSCF, each failed user **location query** procedure is added to the relevant
measurement according to the failure cause. Possible failure causes are
included in 3GPP TS 29.229 [10]. The sum of all supported per cause
measurements shall equal the total number of failed user **location query**
procedures. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a
sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement (as defined in e) is an integer value. The number of
measurements is equal to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum
value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form LIQ.FailLIA._Cause\_ where _Cause_
identifies the failure cause.
f) HssFunction
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic
h) IMS
### 4.2.6 HSS initiated update of user profile related measurements
The measurements defined in this subclause are subject to the \"2 out of 3
approach\".
Figure 6
#### 4.2.6.1 Attempted HSS initiated updates of user profile
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted HSS initiated update of
User Profile by a HSS to the S‑CSCF.
b) CC.
c) On transmission of Diameter command Push-Profile-Request (PPR) by the HSS
to the S-CSCF (3GPP TS 29.228 [9]).
d) A single integer value.
e) UP.AttPPR.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.2.6.2 Successful HSS initiated updates of user profile
a) This measurement provides the number of successfully performed HSS
initiated update of User Profile by a HSS to the S-CSCF.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by HSS of Diameter command Push-Profile-Answer (PPA) with Result
Code of DIAMETER_SUCCESS (3GPP TS 29.228 [9]) from the S-CSCF.
d) A single integer value.
e) UP.SuccPPA.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.2.6.3 Failed HSS initiated updates of user profile
a) This measurement provides the number of failed HSS initiated update of User
Profile procedures by a HSS with the S-CSCF. The measurement is split into
subcounters per the failure cause.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the HSS of Diameter command Push-Profile-Answer (PPA) with a
Result Code other than DIAMETER_SUCCESS (3GPP TS 29.228 [9]) from the S-CSCF,
each failed HSS initiated updates of User Profile procedure is added to the
relevant measurement according to the failure cause. Possible failure causes
are included in 3GPP TS 29.229 [10].\ And each expected Diameter command Push-
Profile-Answer (PPA) not received by the HSS is added into failure cause \'No
Reply\' (not specified in 3GPP TS 29.229 [10]).\ The sum of all supported per
cause measurements shall equal the total number of failed HSS initiated
updates of User Profile procedures. In case only a subset of per cause
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement (as defined in e) is an integer value. The number of
measurements is equal to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum
value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form UP.FailPPA._Cause\_ where _Cause_
identifies the failure cause.\ The cause \'No Reply\' is identified by the
_.NoReply_ suffix.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.2.7 Authentication procedure related measurements
The measurements defined in this subclause are subject to the \"2 out of 3
approach\".
Figure 7
#### 4.2.7.1 Attempted authentication procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted authentication procedures
received by a HSS from the S‑CSCF.
b) CC.
c) On receipt of Diameter command Multimedia-Auth-Request (MAR) by the HSS
from the S-CSCF (3GPP TS 29.228 [9]).
d) A single integer value.
e) MA.AttMAR.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.2.7.2 Successful authentication procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of successfully performed
authentication procedures by a HSS with the S-CSCF (3GPP TS 33.203 [28]).
b) CC.
c) On transmission by HSS of Diameter command Multimedia-Auth-Answer (MAA)
with Result Code of DIAMETER_SUCCESS (3GPP TS 29.228 [9]) to the S-CSCF.
d) A single integer value.
e) MA.SuccMAA.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.2.7.3 Failed authentication procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of failed authentication procedures by
a HSS with the S-CSCF (3GPP TS 33.203 [28]). The measurement is split into
subcounters per the failure cause.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the HSS of Diameter command Multimedia-Auth-Answer (MAA)
with a Result Code other than DIAMETER_SUCCESS (3GPP TS 29.228 [9]) to the
S-CSCF, each failed **authentication** procedure is added to the relevant
measurement according to the failure cause. Possible failure causes are
included in 3GPP TS 29.229 [10]. The sum of all supported per cause
measurements shall equal the total number of failed **authentication**
procedures. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a
sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement (as defined in e) is an integer value. The number of
measurements is equal to the number of causes supported plus a sum value
identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form MA.FailMAA._Cause\_ where _Cause_
identifies the failure cause.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.2.8 Data read (Sh-Pull) procedure related measurements
The measurements defined in this subclause are subject to the \"2 out of 3
approach\".
Figure 8
#### 4.2.8.1 Attempted data read (Sh-Pull) procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted Data read (Sh-Pull)
procedures by a HSS from the AS.
b) CC.
c) On receipt of Diameter command User-Data-Request (UDR) by the HSS from the
AS. (3GPP TS 29.328 [17]).
d) A single integer value.
e) DTR.AttUDR.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.2.8.2 Successful data read (Sh-Pull) procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of successfully Data read (Sh-Pull)
procedures by a HSS with the AS.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by HSS of Diameter command User-Data-Answer (UDA) to the AS
with the result code indicating successful execution of a Data read (Sh-Pull)
procedure (3GPP TS 29.329 [18]).
d) A single integer value.
e) DTR.SuccUDA.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.2.8.3 Failed data read (Sh-Pull) procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of failed Data read (Sh-Pull)
procedures by a HSS with the AS. The measurement is split into subcounters per
the failure cause.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the HSS of Diameter command User-Data-Answer (UDA) to
the AS with the result code indicating a failure (3GPP TS 29.328 [17]), each
failed data read procedure is added to the relevant measurement according to
the failure cause. Possible failure causes are included in 3GPP TS 29.329
[18]. The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the total
number of failed data read procedures. In case only a subset of per cause
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
_.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form DTR.FailUDA._Cause\_ where _Cause_
identifies the failure cause.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.2.9 Data update (Sh-Update) procedure related measurements
The measurements defined in this subclause are subject to the \"2 out of 3
approach\".
Figure 9
#### 4.2.9.1 Attempted data update (Sh-Update) procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted Data update (Sh-Update)
procedures by a HSS from the AS.
b) CC.
c) On receipt of Diameter command Profile-Update-Request (PUR) by the HSS from
the AS (3GPP TS 29.328 [17]).
d) A single integer value.
e) DTU.AttPUR.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.2.9.2 Successful data update (Sh-Update) procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of successfully Data update (Sh-
Update) procedures by a HSS with the AS.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by HSS of Diameter command Profile-Update-Answer (PUA) to
the AS with the result code indicating successful execution of a data update
(Sh-Update) procedure (3GPP TS 29.329 [18]).
d) A single integer value.
e) DTU.SuccPUA.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.2.9.3 Failed data update (Sh-Update) procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of failed data update (Sh-Update)
procedures by a HSS with the AS. The measurement is split into subcounters per
the failure cause.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the HSS of Diameter command Profile-Update-Answer (PUA)
to the AS with the result code indicating a failure (3GPP TS 29.328 [17]),
each failed data update procedure is added to the relevant measurement
according to the failure cause. Possible failure causes are included in 3GPP
TS 29.329 [18]. The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal
the total number of failed data update procedures. In case only a subset of
per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
_.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form DTU.FailPUA._Cause\_ where _Cause_
identifies the failure cause.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.2.10 Subscription to notifications (Sh‑Subs‑Notif) procedure related
measurements
The measurements defined in this subclause are subject to the \"2 out of 3
approach\".
Figure 10
#### 4.2.10.1 Attempted subscription to notifications (Sh-Subs-Notif)
procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted subscription to
notifications (Sh-Subs-Notif) procedures by a HSS from the AS.
b) CC.
c) On receipt of Diameter command Subscribe-Notifications-Request (SNR) by the
HSS from the AS (3GPP TS 29.328 [17]).
d) A single integer value.
e) SUB.AttSNR.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.2.10.2 Successful subscription to notifications (Sh-Subs-Notif)
procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of successfully subscription to
notifications (Sh-Subs-Notif) procedures by a HSS with the AS.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by HSS of Diameter Subscribe-Notifications-Answer (SNA) to
the AS with the result code indicating successful execution of a subscription
to notifications (Sh-Subs-Notif) procedure (3GPP TS 29.329 [18]).
d) A single integer value.
e) SUB.SuccSNA.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.2.10.3 Failed subscription to notifications (Sh-Subs-Notif) procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of failed subscription to
notifications (Sh-Subs-Notif) procedures by a HSS with the AS. The measurement
is split into subcounters per the failure cause.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the HSS of Diameter command Subscribe-Notifications-
Answer (SNA) to the AS with the result code indicating a failure (3GPP TS
29.328 [17]), each failed subscription to notifications procedure is added to
the relevant measurement according to the failure cause. Possible failure
causes are included in 3GPP TS 29.329 [18]. The sum of all supported per cause
measurements shall equal the total number of failed subscription to
notifications procedures. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is
supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement (as defined in e) is an integer value. The number of
measurements is equal to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum
value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form SUB.FailSNA._Cause\_ where _Cause_
identifies the failure cause.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.2.11 Notification (Sh-Notif) procedure related measurements
The measurements defined in this subclause are subject to the \"2 out of 3
approach\".
Figure 11
#### 4.2.11.1 Attempted notification (Sh-Notif) procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted notification (Sh-Notif)
procedures by a HSS to the AS.
b) CC.
c) On transmission of Diameter command Push-Notification-Request (PNR) by the
HSS to the AS (3GPP TS 29.328 [17]).
d) A single integer value.
e) NOTIF.AttPNR.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.2.11.2 Successful notification (Sh-Notif) procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of successfully performed Notification
(Sh-Notif) procedures by a HSS to the AS.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by HSS of Diameter command Push-Notification -Answer (PNA) with
the result code indicating successful execution of a notification (Sh-Notif)
procedure (3GPP TS 29.329 [18]) from the AS.
d) A single integer value.
e) NOTIF.SuccPNA.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.2.11.3 Failed notification (Sh-Notif) procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of failed notification (Sh-Notif)
procedures by a HSS with the AS. The measurement is split into subcounters per
the reject cause failure cause.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the HSS of Diameter command Push-Notification-Answer (PNA)
with the result code indicating a failure (3GPP TS 29.328 [17]) from the AS,
each failed notification procedure is added to the relevant measurement
according to the failure cause. Possible failure causes are included in TS
29.329 [18].\ And each expected Diameter command Push-Notification-Answer
(PNA) not received by the HSS is added into failure cause \'No Reply\' (not
specified in 3GPP TS 29.329 [18]).\ The sum of all supported per cause
measurements shall equal the total number of failed notification procedures.
In case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter
will be provided first.
d) Each measurement (as defined in e) is an integer value. The number of
measurements is equal to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum
value identified by the .sum suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form NOTIF.FailPNA._Cause_ :\ where _Cause_
identifies the failure cause.\ The cause \'No Reply\' is identified by the
_.NoReply_ suffix.
f) HssFunction.
g) Valid for Circuit switching traffic and packet switching traffic.
h) IMS.
## 4.3 Measurements related to BGCF
### 4.3.1 Session Control related measurements
#### 4.3.1.1 **Overview**
The performance measurements defined in subclause 4.3.1 are related to the
procedures that BGCF forwards session to the selected network.
Based on the procedures described in 3GPP TS 23.228 [7] and 3GPP TS 24.229
[8], when the BGCF receives a request, the BGCF shall forward the request:
\- to an MGCF within its own network for calls routing to PSTN/CS domain in
the same network; or
\- to another BGCF in the selected network for calls routing to PSTN/CS domain
in another network; or
> \- to an I-CSCF in the selected network for sessions routing to another IMS
> network ; or
\- to an IBCF in its own network for sessions routing to another IMS network
or other SIP-based multimedia networks, if local policy requires IBCF
capabilities towards another network.
#### 4.3.1.2 **A** ttempted sessions at BGCF
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted sessions at the BGCF when
network breakout is to occur.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the BGCF of an initial SIP_INVITE message (see 3GPP TS 23.228
[7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) SC.AttSession.
f) BgcfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.3.1.3 **A** ttempted sessions forwarded to MGCF
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted sessions forwarded to the
MGCF within the same network at the BGCF for calls routing to PSTN/CS domain
in the same network.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the BGCF of an initial SIP_INVITE message to the > MGCF
within the same network (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) SC.AttSessionFwdToMGCF.
f) BgcfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.3.1.4 **A** ttempted sessions forwarded to BGCF
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted sessions forwarded to the
BGCF in the selected network for calls routing to PSTN/CS domain in another
network.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the BGCF of an initial SIP_INVITE message to the BGCF in
a different network (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) SC.AttSessionFwdToBGCF.
f) BgcfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
    4.3.1.4a **A**ttempted sessions forwarded to I-CSCF
```{=html}
``` a) This measurement provides the number of attempted sessions forwarded to
the I-CSCF in the selected network for sessions routing to another IMS
network.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the BGCF of an initial SIP_INVITE message to the I-CSCF
in a different network (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) SC.AttSessionFwdToCSCF.
f) BgcfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
    4.3.1.4b **A**ttempted sessions forwarded to IBCF
```{=html}
``` a) This measurement provides the number of attempted sessions forwarded to
the IBCF in its own network for sessions routing to another IMS network or
other SIP-based multimedia networks, if local policy requires IBCF
capabilities towards another network.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the BGCF of an initial SIP_INVITE message to the IBCF in
a different network (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) SC.AttSessionFwdToIBCF.
f) BgcfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
    4.3.1.5 Successful sessions forwarded to MGCF
```{=html}
``` a) This measurement provides the number of successful sessions forwarded
to the MGCF at the BGCF for calls routing to PSTN or CS domain in the same
network.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the BGCF of a response message (e.g. SIP_180 or SIP_200)
indicating a successful session from the MGCF in the same network,
corresponding to the transmitted initial SIP_INVITE message (see 3GPP TS
23.228 [7]). Each successful session forwarded to MGCF is added to the
relevant measurement according to the message type. The sum of all supported
per message type measurements shall equal the total number of successful
sessions forwarded to MGCF. In case only a subset of per message type
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of message types plus a possible sum value identified by the
._sum_ suffix.
e) SC.SuccSessionFwdToMGCF._type\_ where _type_ identifies the message type.
    The following subcounters with specific message types are the
    samples of this measurement:\
    SC.SuccSessionFwdToMGCF.180 Message type: SIP\_180\
    SC.SuccSessionFwdToMGCF.200 Message type: SIP\_200\_OK only if the
    SIP\_180 has not been received for this session.
f) BgcfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.3.1.6 Successful sessions forwarded to BGCF
a) This measurement provides the number of successful forwarded sessions to
the BGCF in the selected network for calls routing to PSTN/CS domain in
another network.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the BGCF of a response message (e.g.SIP_180 or
SIP_200）indicating a successful session from the BGCF in another network,
corresponding to the transmitted initial SIP_INVITE message (see 3GPP TS
23.228 [2]). Each successful session forwarded to BGCF is added to the
relevant measurement according to the message type. The sum of all supported
per message type measurements shall equal the total number of successful
sessions forwarded to BGCF. In case only a subset of per message type
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of message types plus a possible sum value identified by the
._sum_ suffix.
e) SC.SuccSessionFwdToBGCF._type\_ where _type_ identifies the message type
    The following subcounters with specific message types are the
    samples of this measurement:\
    SC.SuccSessionFwdTo**B**GCF.180 Message type: SIP\_180\
    SC.SuccSessionFwdToBGCF.200 Message type: SIP\_200\_OK only if the
    SIP\_180 has not been received for this session.
f) BgcfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
    4.3.1.7 Successful sessions forwarded to I-CSCF
    a.  This measurement provides the number of successful sessions
        forwarded to the I-CSCF in the selected network for sessions
        routing to another IMS network.
    b.  CC\.
    c.  On receipt by the BGCF of a response message (e.g. SIP\_180 or
        SIP\_200) indicating a successful session from the I-CSCF in a
        different network, corresponding to the transmitted initial
        SIP\_INVITE message (see 3GPP TS 23.228 \[7\]). Each successful
        session forwarded to I-CSCF is added to the relevant measurement
        according to the message type. The sum of all supported per
        message type measurements shall equal the total number of
        successful sessions forwarded to I-CSCF. In case only a subset
        of per message type measurements is supported, a sum subcounter
        will be provided first.
    d.  Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements
        is equal to the number of message types plus a possible sum
        value identified by the .*sum* suffix.
    e.  SC.SuccSessionFwdToCSCF.*type\
        *where *type* identifies the message type.
    f.  The following subcounters with specific message types are the
        samples of this measurement:\
        SC.SuccSessionFwdToCSCF.180 Message type: SIP\_180\
        SC.SuccSessionFwdToCSCF.200 Message type: SIP\_200\_OK only if
        the SIP\_180 has not been received for this session.
    g.  BgcfFunction.
    h.  Valid for packet switched traffic.
    i.  IMS.
        4.3.1.8 Successful sessions forwarded to IBCF
```{=html}
``` a) This measurement provides the number of successful forwarded sessions
to the IBCF in its own network for sessions routing to another IMS network or
other SIP-based multimedia networks, if local policy requires IBCF
capabilities towards another network..
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the IBCF of a response message (e.g.SIP_180 or
SIP_200）indicating a successful session from the IBCF in another network,
corresponding to the transmitted initial SIP_INVITE message (see 3GPP TS
23.228 [7]). Each successful session forwarded to IBCF is added to the
relevant measurement according to the message type. The sum of all supported
per message type measurements shall equal the total number of successful
sessions forwarded to IBCF. In case only a subset of per message type
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of message types plus a possible sum value identified by the
._sum_ suffix.
e) SC.SuccSessionFwdToIBCF._type\_ where _type_ identifies the message type
f) The following subcounters with specific message types are the samples of
this measurement:\ SC.SuccSessionFwdTo**IBCF**.180 Message type: SIP_180\
SC.SuccSessionFwdToIBCF.200 Message type: SIP_200_OK only if the SIP_180 has
not been received for this session.
g) BgcfFunction.
h) Valid for packet switched traffic.
i) IMS.
## 4.4 Measurements related to MGCF
### 4.4.1 Call control related measurements
#### 4.4.1.1 Call control related measurements, CS network originated
The measurements defined in subclauses 4.4.1.1.2, 4.4.1.1.3 and 4.4.1.1.5 are
subject to the \"2 out of 3 approach\".
##### 4.4.1.1.1 Overview
The performance measurements defined in this subclause are related to the CS
**network** originated call that is intentionally routed to IM CN subsystem.
{width="3.0590277777777777in" height="4.8909722222222225in"}
Figure 14: CS **network** originated, IM CN terminated call procedure
##### 4.4.1.1.2 Attempted calls, CS network originated
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted calls from CS
**network**.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the MGCF of an \"IAM\" message(see 3GPP TS 29.163 [11]).
d) A single integer value.
e) CC.AttCallCsOrig.
f) MgcfFunction.
```{=html}
``` a) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
```{=html}
``` g) IMS.
##### 4.4.1.1.3 Successful calls, CS network originated
a) This measurement provides the number of successful calls from CS
**network**.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the MGCF of an \"ACM\" or \"CON\" message (see 3GPP TS
29.163 [11]).
NOTE: If ACM message is not sent, the \"CON\" message shall be the trigger.
d) A single integer value.
e) CC.SuccCallCsOrig.
f) MgcfFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.4.1.1.4 Answered calls, CS network originated
a) This measurement provides the number of answered calls from CS **network**.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the MGCF of an \"ANM\" or \"CON\" message (see 3GPP TS
29.163 [11]).
d) A single integer value.
e) CC.AnsCallCsOrig.
f) MgcfFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.4.1.1.5 Failed calls, CS network originated
a. This measurement provides number of failed calls (the calls are originated
from CS network).
b. CC.
c. Before MGCF sends "ACM\" or \"CON\" message (see 3GPP TS 29.163 [11]), the
call is released..
d. A single integer value.
e. CC.FailCallCsOrig.
f. MgcfFunction.
g. Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h. IMS.
##### 4.4.1.1.6 Call set-up time (Mean), CS network originated
a) This measurement provides the mean setup time of the successful CS
**network** originated calls.
b) DER (n=1).
c) This measurement is obtained by accumulating the time intervals for every
successful CS **network** originated calls between the receipt of \"IAM\"
message and the transmission of the corresponding \"ACM\" message or \"CON\"
message if the \"ACM\" message is not sent over a granularity period using DER
(see 3GPP TS 29.163 [11]). The end value of this time will then be divided by
the number of successful CS network originated calls observed in the
granularity period to give the arithmetic mean, the accumulator shall be
reinitialised at the beginning of each granularity period.
d) A single integer value (in milliseconds).
e) CC.SetupTimeCsOrigMean.
f) MgcfFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.4.1.2 Call control related measurements, IM CN originated
The measurements defined in subclauses 4.4.1.2.2, 4.4.1.2.3 and 4.4.1.2.5 are
subject to the \"2 out of 3 approach\".
##### 4.4.1.2.1 Overview
The performance measurements defined in this subclause is related to the IM CN
subsystem originated call that is intentionally routed to CS **network**.
{width="3.770138888888889in" height="4.785416666666666in"}
Figure 15: IM CN originated, CS network terminated call procedure
##### 4.4.1.2.2 Attempted calls, IM CN originated
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted calls from IM CN
subsystem.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the MGCF of an initial SIP_INVITE message (see 3GPP TS 29.163
[11]).
d) A single integer value.
e) CC.AttCallImOrig.
f) MgcfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.4.1.2.3 Successful calls, IM CN originated
a) This measurement provides the number of successful calls from IM CN
subsystem. The measurement is split into subcounters per message type (e.g.
SIP_180) indicating the successful IM CN originated call.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the MGCF of a response message (e.g. SIP_180) indicating
a successful IM CN subsystem originated call corresponding to the initial
SIP_INVITE message (see 3GPP TS 29.163 [11]), each successful IM CN originated
call is added to the relevant measurement according to the message type, the
possible response message types are identified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [8]. The sum
of all supported per message type measurements shall equal the total number of
successful IM CN subsystem originated calls. In case only a subset of per
message type measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided
first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of message types plus a possible sum value identified by the
._sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form CC.SuccCallImOrig._type\_ where _type_
identifies the message type.
    The following subcounters with specific message types are the
    samples of this measurement:\
    CC.SuccCallImorig.180 Message type: SIP\_180. MGCF sends SIP\_180.\
    CC.SuccCallImorig.200 Message type: SIP\_200. MGCF sends
    SIP\_200\_OK after receiving CON message instead of ACM message.
f) MgcfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.4.1.2.4 Answered calls, IM CN originated
a) This measurement provides the number of answered calls from IM CN
subsystem.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the MGCF of a SIP_200_OK message corresponding to an
initial SIP_INVITE message. (see 3GPP TS 29.163 [11]).
d) A single integer value.
e) CC.AnsCallImOrig.
f) MgcfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.4.1.2.5 Failed calls, IM CN originated
a) This measurement provides number of failed calls (the calls are originated
from IM CN subsystem).
b) CC.
c) Before MGCF sends SIP 180 or SIP 200 without 180 (see 3GPP TS 29.163 [11]),
the call is released..
d) A single integer value.
e) CC.FailCallImOrig.
f) MgcfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.4.1.2.6 Call set-up time (Mean), IM CN originated
a) This measurement provides the mean setup time of the successful IM CN
subsystem originated calls.
b) DER (n=1).
c) This measurement is obtained by accumulating the time intervals for every
successful IM CN subsystem originated calls between the receipt of an initial
SIP_INVITE message and the transmission of corresponding SIP_180 or SIP_200_OK
without SIP_180 message over a granularity period using DER (see 3GPP TS
29.163 [11]). The end value of this time will then be divided by the number of
successful IM CN subsystem originated calls observed in the granularity period
to give the arithmetic mean, the accumulator shall be reinitialised at the
beginning of each granularity period.
d) A single integer value (in milliseconds).
e) CC.SetupTimeImOrigMean.
f) MgcfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.4**.1.** 3 Call **control** related measurements, call release
##### 4.4**.1.** 3.1 Overview
The performance measurements defined in this subclause are related to the call
release initiated by CS network, IM CN subsystem, MGCF itself and MGW
respectively.
##### 4.4**.1.** 3.2 Call release initiated by CS network
a) This measurement provides the number of call release initiated by CS
network with \"REL\" or \"RSC\" or \"GRS\" message. The measurement is split
into subcounters per release message type, and per cause for the REL message.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the MGCF of an ISUP/BICC \"REL\" or \"RSC\" or \"GRS\"
message (see 3GPP TS 29.163 [11]).
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of supported causes in ISUP/BICC \"REL\" message, plus two
values for ISUP/BICC \"RSC\" and \"GRS\" message respectively and a possible
sum value identified by the ._sum_ suffix.
e) CC.RelCallCsInit._CauseOrMsg_.
    Where *CauseOrMsg* identifies the cause in ISUP/BICC \"REL\" message
    if the call is released by ISUP/BICC \"REL\" message (see ITU-T
    Recommendation Q.850 \[19\]), or the message type ISUP/BICC \"RSC\"
    or \"GRS\" respectively if the call is released by ISUP/BICC \"RSC\"
    or \"GRS\" message. If the call is released by ISUP/BICC \"RSC\" or
    \"GRS\" message, the *CauseOrMsg shall be the constant string
    \"RSC\" or \"GRS\"* respectively when constructing the measurement
    name.
f) MgcfFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.4**.1.** 3.3 Call release initiated by IM CN subsystem
a) This measurement provides the number of call release initiated by IM CN
subsystem. The measurement is split into subcounters per message type.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the MGCF of a SIP_BYE or SIP_CANCEL or SIP_3XX or SIP_4XX or
SIP_5XX or SIP_6XX message (see 3GPP TS 29.163 [11]).
d) 6 single integer values.
e) CC.RelCallsImInit.BYE\ CC.RelCallsCsInit.CANCEL\ CC.RelCallsCsInit.3XX\
CC.RelCallsCsInit.4XX\ CC.RelCallsCsInit.5XX\ CC.RelCallsCsInit.6XX
f) MgcfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.4**.1.** 3.4 Call release initiated by MGCF
a) This measurement provides the number of autonomous call release initiated
by MGCF itself. The measurement is split into subcounters per message type.
b) CC.
c) On transmission of call release message by MGCF due to autonomous call
releases (see 3GPP TS 29.163 [11]).
NOTE: MGCF sends call release message to CS network and IM CN subsystem
respectively for one call, just count once.
d) 8 single integer values.
e) CC.RelCallsMgcfInit.484Imgcf\ CC.RelCallsMgcfInit.480Imgcf\
CC.RelCallsMgcfInit.488Imgcf\ CC.RelCallsMgcfInit.500Imgcf\
CC.RelCallsMgcfInit.CotOmgcf\ CC.RelCallsMgcfInit.47Omgcf\
CC.RelCallsMgcfInit.IsupBiccOmgcf\ CC.RelCallsMgcfInit.SipOmgcf.
    The corresponding scenario for these 2 measurements are:
    CC.RelCallsMgcfInit.484Imgcf I-MGCF initiates call release by
    sending SIP 484 Address Incomplete.\
    CC.RelCallsMgcfInit.480Imgcf I-MGCF initiates call release by
    sending SIP 480 Temporarily Unavailable.\
    CC.RelCallsMgcfInit.488Imgcf I-MGCF initiates call release by
    sending SIP 488 Not Acceptable Here.\
    CC.RelCallsMgcfInit.500Imgcf I-MGCF initiates call release by
    sending SIP 500 Server Internal Error.\
    CC.RelCallsMgcfInit.CotOmgcf O-MGCF initiates call release on
    reception of COT with the Continuity Indicators parameter set to
    \"*continuity check failed*\" or expiry of ISUP/BICC T8.\
    CC.RelCallsMgcfInit.47Omgcf O-MGCF initiates call release by sending
    ISUP/BICC \"REL\" with cause value (resource unavailable or
    unspecified).\
    CC.RelCallsMgcfInit.IsupBiccOmgcf O-MGCF initiates call release by
    ISUP/BICC procedure.\
    CC.RelCallsMgcfInit.SipOmgcf O-MGCF initiates call release by SIP
    procedure.
f) MgcfFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switched and packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.4**.1.** 3.5 Call release initiated by MGW
a) This measurement provides the number of call release initiated by MGW. The
measurement is split into subcounters per H248 error code and H248 service
change reason.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the MGCF of a H248 message which triggers call release (see
ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 [20]).
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the ._sum_
suffix.
e) CC.RelCallsMgwInit.C _ause.\_ Where _Cause_ identifies the H248 error code
or H248 service change reason.(see ITU-T Recommendation H.248.8 [21]).
f) MgcfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.4**.1**.4 Number of simultaneous online and answered calls (Maximum)
a) This measurement provides the maximum number of simultaneous online calls
which have been answered in the MGCF.
b) SI.
```{=html}
``` a) This measurement is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined interval the
number of simultaneous online calls which have been answered and then taking
the maximum.
b) A single integer value.
c) CC.NbrAnsCallMax.
d) MgcfFunction.
e) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
f) IMS.
#### 4.4**.1**.5 Number of simultaneous online and answered calls (mean)
a) This measurement provides the mean number of simultaneous online calls
which have been answered in the MGCF.
b) SI.
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined interval the
number of simultaneous online calls which have been answered and then taking
the arithmetic mean.
d) A single integer value.
e) CC.NbrAnsCallMean.
f) MgcfFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) IMS.
## 4.5 Measurements related to IM-MGW
The measurements related to IM-MGW is the same with CS MGW defined in 3GPP TS
32.407[29].
## 4.6 Measurements related to MRFC
### 4.6.1 Session control related measurements
The measurements defined in subclauses 4.6.1.1, 4.6.1.2 and 4.6.1.4 are
subject to the \"2 out of 3 approach\".
#### 4.6.1.1 Attempted session establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted session establishments at
MRFC.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the MRFC of an initial SIP_INVITE message (see 3GPP TS 23.228
[7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) SC.AttSession.
f) MrfcFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.6.1.2 Successful session establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of successful session establishments
at the MRFC. The measurement is split into subcounters per message type (e.g.
SIP_180) indicating the successful session establishments.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the MRFC of a response message (e.g. SIP_180) indicating
a successful session establishment corresponding to the initial SIP_INVITE
message (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]), each successful session is added to the
relevant measurement according to the message type, the possible response
message types are identified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [8]. The sum of all supported
per message type measurements shall equal the total number of successful
session establishments. In case only a subset of per message type measurements
is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of message types plus a possible sum value identified by the
._sum_ suffix.
e) SC.SuccSession._type\_ where _type_ identifies the message type.
    The following subcounters with specific message types are the
    samples of this measurement:\
    SC.SuccSession.180 Message type: SIP\_180\
    SC.SuccSession.200 Message type: SIP\_200\_OK only if the SIP\_180
    has not been sent for this session.
f) MrfcFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.6.1.3 Answered session establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of answered session establishments at
the MRFC.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the MRFC of a SIP_200_OK response message corresponding
to the initial SIP_INVITE messages (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) SC.AnsSession.
f) MrfcFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.6.1.4 Failed session establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of failed session establishments at
the MRFC. The measurement is split into subcounters per response status codes.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the MRFC of a response message (e.g. SIP_430) indicating
a failed session establishment corresponding to the initial SIP_INVITE
messages (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]), each failed session establishment is added
to the relevant measurement according to the status code. The sum of all
supported per status code measurements shall equal the total number of failed
session establishments. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is
supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of status codes plus a possible sum value identified by the
._sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form SC.FailSession._Cause\_ where _Cause_
identifies the status code.
f) MrfcFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.6.2 Multi-party sessions related measurements
The measurements defined in subclauses 4.6.2.1, 4.6.2.2 and 4.6.2.4 are
subject to the \"2 out of 3 approach\".
The measurements defined in subclauses 4.6.2.5, 4.6.2.6 and 4.6.2.7 are
subject to the \"2 out of 3 approach\".
#### 4.6.2.1 Attempted session establishments for multi-party sessions
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted session establishments
for multi-party sessions at MRFC.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the MRFC of an initial SIP_INVITE message for the multi-party
sessions service (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) SC.AttMultipartySession.
f) MrfcFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.6.2.2 Successful session establishments for multi-party sessions
a) This measurement provides the number of successful session establishments
for multi-party sessions at the MRFC. The measurement is split into
subcounters per message type (e.g. SIP_180) indicating the successful session
establishments for multi-party sessions.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the MRFC of a response message (e.g. SIP_180) indicating
a successful session establishment corresponding to the initial SIP_INVITE
message for the multi-party sessions service (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]), each
successful session is added to the relevant measurement according to the
message type, the possible response message types are identified in 3GPP TS
24.229 [8]. The sum of all supported per message type measurements shall equal
the total number of successful session establishments for multi-party
sessions. In case only a subset of per message type measurements is supported,
a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of message types plus a possible sum value identified by the
._sum_ suffix.
e) SC.SuccMultipartySession._type\_ where _type_ identifies the message type.
    The following subcounters with specific message types are the
    samples of this measurement:\
    SC.SuccSession.180 Message type: SIP\_180\
    SC.SuccSession.200 Message type: SIP\_200\_OK only if the SIP\_180
    has not been sent for this session.
f) MrfcFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.6.2.3 Answered session establishments for multi-party sessions
a) This measurement provides the number of answered session establishments for
multi-party sessions at the MRFC.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the MRFC of a SIP_200_OK response message corresponding
to the initial SIP_INVITE messages for the multi-party sessions service (see
3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) SC.AnsMultipartySession.
f) MrfcFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.6.2.4 Failed session establishments for multi-party sessions
a) This measurement provides the number of failed session establishments for
multi-party sessions at the MRFC. The measurement is split into subcounters
per response status codes.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the MRFC of a response message (e.g. SIP_430) indicating
a failed session establishment corresponding to the initial SIP_INVITE message
for the multi-party session service (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]), each failed
session establishment is added to the relevant measurement according to the
status code. The sum of all supported per status code measurements shall equal
the total number of failed session establishments for the multi-party
sessions. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of status codes plus a possible sum value identified by the
._sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form SC.FailMultipartySession._Cause\_ where
_Cause_ identifies the status code.
f) MrfcFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.6.2.5 Attempted event subscription procedures for multi-party sessions
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted event subscription
procedures for multi-party sessions at MRFC.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the MRFC of a SIP_SUBSCRIBE message for the multi-party
sessions service (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7] and RFC3265[22]).
d) A single integer value.
e) SC.AttSubscribe.
f) MrfcFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.6.2.6 Successful event subscription procedures for multi-party sessions
a) This measurement provides the number of successful event subscription
procedures for multi-party sessions at MRFC.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the MRFC of a SIP_200_OK message corresponding to the
SIP_SUBSCRIBE message for the multi-party sessions service (see 3GPP TS 23.228
[7] and RFC3265[22]).
d) A single integer value.
e) SC.SuccSubscribe.
f) MrfcFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.6.2.7 Failed event subscription procedures for multi-party sessions
a) This measurement provides the number of failed event subscription
procedures for multi-party sessions at MRFC. The measurement is split into
subcounters per response status codes.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the MRFC of a response message (e.g. SIP_430) indicating
a failed event subscription procedure corresponding to the initial
SIP_SUBSCRIBE message for the multi-party session service (see 3GPP TS 23.228
[7] and RFC3265[22]), each failed event subscription procedures is added to
the relevant measurement according to the status code. The sum of all
supported per status code measurements shall equal the total number of failed
event subscription procedures for the multi-party sessions. In case only a
subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be
provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of status codes plus a possible sum value identified by the
._sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form SC.FailSubscribe._Cause\_ where _Cause_
identifies the status code.
f) MrfcFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.6.3 Announcement service related measurements
The measurements defined in subclauses 4.6.3.1, 4.6.3.2 and 4.6.3.4 are
subject to the \"2 out of 3 approach\".
#### 4.6.3.1 Attempted session establishments for announcements
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted session establishments
for announcements at MRFC.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the MRFC of an initial SIP_INVITE message for the
announcement service (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) SC.AttAnnounce.
f) MrfcFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.6.3.2 Successful session establishments for announcements
a) This measurement provides the number of successful session establishments
for announcements at the MRFC. The measurement is split into subcounters per
message type (e.g. SIP_180) indicating the successful session establishments
for announcements.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the MRFC of a response message (e.g. SIP_180) indicating
a successful session establishment corresponding to the initial SIP_INVITE
message for the announcement service (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]), each successful
session is added to the relevant measurement according to the message type,
the possible response message types are identified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [8]. The
sum of all supported per message type measurements shall equal the total
number of successful session establishments for announcements. In case only a
subset of per message type measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be
provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of message types plus a possible sum value identified by the
._sum_ suffix.
e) SC.SuccAnnounce._type\_ where _type_ identifies the message type.
    The following subcounters with specific message types are the
    samples of this measurement:\
    SC.SuccSession.180 Message type: SIP\_180\
    SC.SuccSession.200 Message type: SIP\_200\_OK only if the SIP\_180
    has not been sent for this session.
f) MrfcFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.6.3.3 Answered session establishments for announcements
a) This measurement provides the number of answered session establishments for
announcements at the MRFC.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the MRFC of a SIP_200_OK response message corresponding
to the initial SIP_INVITE messages for the announcement service (see 3GPP TS
23.228 [7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) SC.AnsAnnounce.
f) MrfcFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.6.3.4 Failed session establishments for announcements
a) This measurement provides the number of failed session establishments for
announcements at the MRFC. The measurement is split into subcounters per
response status codes.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the MRFC of a response message (e.g. SIP_430) indicating
a failed session establishment corresponding to the initial SIP_INVITE message
for the announcement service (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]), each failed session
establishment is added to the relevant measurement according to the status
code. The sum of all supported per status code measurements shall equal the
total number of failed session establishments for the announcements. In case
only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be
provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of status codes plus a possible sum value identified by the
._sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form SC.FailAnnounce._Cause\_ where _Cause_
identifies the status code.
f) MrfcFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.6.4 Transcoding service related measurements
The measurements defined in subclauses 4.6.4.1, 4.6.4.2 and 4.6.4.4 are
subject to the \"2 out of 3 approach\".
#### 4.6.4.1 Attempted session establishments for transcoding service
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted session establishments
for transcoding service at MRFC.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the MRFC of an initial SIP_INVITE message for the transcoding
service (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) SC.AttTranscoding.
f) MrfcFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.6.4.2 Successful session establishments for transcoding service
a) This measurement provides the number of successful session establishments
for transcoding service at the MRFC. The measurement is split into subcounters
per message type (e.g. SIP_180) indicating the successful session
establishments for transcoding service.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the MRFC of a response message (e.g. SIP_180) indicating
a successful session establishment corresponding to the initial SIP_INVITE
message for the transcoding service (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]), each successful
session is added to the relevant measurement according to the message type,
the possible response message types are identified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [8]. The
sum of all supported per message type measurements shall equal the total
number of successful session establishments for transcoding service. In case
only a subset of per message type measurements is supported, a sum subcounter
will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of message types plus a possible sum value identified by the
._sum_ suffix.
e) SC.SuccTranscoding._type\_ where _type_ identifies the message type.
    The following subcounters with specific message types are the
    samples of this measurement:\
    SC.SuccSession.180 Message type: SIP\_180\
    SC.SuccSession.200 Message type: SIP\_200\_OK only if the SIP\_180
    has not been sent for this session.
f) MrfcFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.6.4.3 Answered session establishments for transcoding service
a) This measurement provides the number of answered session establishments for
transcoding service at the MRFC.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the MRFC of a SIP_200_OK response message corresponding
to the initial SIP_INVITE messages for the transcoding service (see 3GPP TS
23.228 [7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) SC.AnsTranscoding.
f) MrfcFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.6.4.4 Failed session establishments for transcoding service
a) This measurement provides the number of failed session establishments for
transcoding service at the MRFC. The measurement is split into subcounters per
response status codes.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the MRFC of a response message (e.g. SIP_430) indicating
a failed session establishment corresponding to the initial SIP_INVITE message
for the transcoding service (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]), each failed session
establishment is added to the relevant measurement according to the status
code. The sum of all supported per status code measurements shall equal the
total number of failed session establishments for the transcoding service. In
case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter
will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of status codes plus a possible sum value identified by the
._sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form SC.FailTranscoding._Cause\_ where _Cause_
identifies the status code.
f) MrfcFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
## 4.7 Measurements related to MRFP
### 4.7.1 RTP related measurements
Performance Measurement definitions in this subclause are only valid if the
RTP protocol is used at the MRFP.
#### 4.7.1.1 Number of incoming RTP packets
a) This measurement provides the number of incoming RTP packets at MRFP.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the MRFP of a RTP packet (see RFC 3550 [23]).
d) A single integer value.
e) RTP.IncPacket.
f) MrfpFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.7.1.2 Number of outgoing RTP packets
a) This measurement provides the number of outgoing RTP packets at MRFP.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the MRFP of a RTP packet (see RFC 3550 [23]).
d) A single integer value.
e) RTP.OutgPacket.
f) MrfpFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.7.1.3 Number of octets of incoming RTP packets
a) This measurement provides the number of octets of incoming RTP packets at
MRFP.
b) DER (n=1).
c) This measurement is obtained by accumulating the number of incoming RTP
packet octets (bytes) on receipt by the MRFP of a RTP packet (see RFC 3550
[23]).
d) A single integer value.
e) RTP.IncOctet.
f) MrfpFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.7.1.4 Number of octets of outgoing RTP packets
a) This measurement provides the number of octets of outgoing RTP packets at
MRFP.
b) DER (n=1).
c) This measurement is obtained by accumulating the number of outgoing RTP
packet octets (bytes) on transmission by the MRFP of a RTP packet (see RFC
3550 [23]).
d) A single integer value.
e) RTP.OutgOctet.
f) MrfpFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.7.1.5 Number of lost incoming RTP packets
a) This measurement provides the number of lost incoming RTP packets.
b) CC.
c) On detection of loss of an incoming RTP packet by the MRFP (see RFC 3550
[23]).
d) A single integer value.
e) RTP.LostIncPacket.
f) MrfpFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
## 4.8 Measurements related to PCRF
The measurements related to PDF are restricted to R6 network architecture.
Editor\'s note: PcrfFunction used in following text is a subject for further
study of IMS NRM modelling for R7 requirements and working 3GPP/3GPP2 IMS NRM
alignment.
### 4.8.1 Authorization of QoS resources related measurements
The five measurement types defined in this subclause are subject to the \"4
out of 5 approach\".
#### 4.8.1.1 Overview
The measurements defined in subclause 4.8.1 are related to procedures of QoS
resource authorization. AF initiates a Diameter transaction to PCRF for
authorizing the resources in the session establishment or modification. PCRF
authorizes the resources based on binding mechanism and service information.
The procedure is shown in figure 16.
EMBED Word.Picture.8
Figure 16: Resource authorization procedure
#### 4.8.1.2 Attempted resource authorization procedures at session
establishment
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted resource authorizations
initiated by AF to PCRF when establishing new sessions.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the PCRF of an AAR Diameter command from AF with a new
session ID (see 3GPP TS 29.213[33]).
d) A single integer value.
e) QoS.EstabAttAARSession.
f) PcrfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS
#### 4.8.1.3 Attempted resource authorization procedures at session
modification
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted resource authorizations
initiated by AF to PCRF when modifying the existing sessions.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the PCRF of an AAR Diameter command from AF to modify > an
existing session (see 3GPP TS 29.213 [33]).
d) A single integer value.
e) QoS.ModfAttAARSession.
f) PcrfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.8.1.4 Successful resource authorization procedures at session
establishment
a) This measurement provides the number of successful resource authorizations
initiated by AF to PCRF when establishing new sessions.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the PCRF of an AAA Diameter command to AF with a > new
stored session ID and \"2xxxx\" result-code (see 3GPP TS > 29.213[33], RFC
3588 [15]).
d) A single integer value.
e) QoS.EstabSuccAAASession.
f) PcrfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.8.1.5 Successful resource authorization procedures at session
modification
a) This measurement provides the number of successful resource authorizations
initiated by AF to PCRF when modifying the existing sessions.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the PCRF of an AAA Diameter command to AF with an
existing session ID and \"2xxxx\" result-code (see 3GPP TS 29.213[33], RFC
3588 [15]).
d) A single integer value.
e) QoS.ModfSuccAAASession.
f) PcrfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.8.1.6 Failed resource authorization procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of failed resource authorizations
initiated by AF to PCRF.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the PCRF of an AAA Diameter command to AF with non-2xxx
result-code (see 3GPP TS 29.213 [33], RFC 3588 [15]). Each failed resource
authorization procedure will be added to the relevant measurement according to
the failure cause. Possible failure causes are included in RFC 3588 [15]. The
sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the total number of
failed resource authorization procedures. In case only a subset of per cause
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the ._sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form QoS.FailAAA._Cause_ \ where _Cause_
identifies the failure cause.
f) PcrfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.8.2 Resource reservation related measurements
#### 4.8.2.1 Void
#### 4.8.2.2 Attempted resource reservation procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted resource reservation
procedures initiated by GGSN to PDF.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the PDF of COPS REQ message from GGSN (see 3GPP TS
29.207[13]).
d) A single integer value.
e) QoS.AttResRsv.
f) PdfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.8.2.3 Successful resource reservation procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of successful resource reservation
procedures initiated by GGSN to PDF.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the PDF of a COPS RPT message from GGSN indicating a
successful resource reservation procedure (see 3GPP TS 29.207[13]).
d) A single integer value.
e) QoS.SuccResRsv.
f) PdfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.8.2.4 Failed resource reservation procedures by PDF
a) This measurement provides the number of resource reservation failures
caused by the authorization failure in PDF. This measurement is split into
subcounters per failure cause.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the PDF of a COPS DEC message containing both an INSTALL
and a REMOVE decisions to GGSN (see 3GPP TS 29.207[13]).
d) Three integer values.
e) QoS.FailResRsvPdf.1 Failure cause \"NoCorrespondingSession\".
    QoS.FailResRsvPdf.2 Failure cause \"InvalidBundling\".
> QoS.FailResRsvPdf.3 Failure cause \"AuthorisationFailure\".
f) PdfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.8.2.5 Failed resource reservation procedures by GGSN
a) This measurement provides the number of resource reservation failures
caused by the enforcement failure in GGSN.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the PDF of a COPS RPT message with a failure result from
GGSN, corresponding to the transmission of the COPS DEC message containing
only an INSTALL decision to GGSN (see 3GPP TS 29.207 [13]).
d) A single integer value.
e) QoS.FailResRsvGgsn.
f) PdfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.8.3 IP-CAN session modification related measurements
The measurements defined in subclauses 4.8.3.1, 4.8.3.2 and 4.8.3.3 are
subject to the \"2 out of 3 approach\".
#### 4.8.3.1 Attempted IP-CAN session modification
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted IP-CAN session
modifications procedures initiated by UE.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the PCRF of a Credit-Control-Request(CCR) Diameter command
from PCEF to modify an existing IP-CAN session initiated by UE (PCC Rule
Provisioning in PULL Mode) (see 3GPP TS 29.213 [33], 3GPP TS 29.212[32]).
d) A single integer value.
e) QoS.ModfAttCCR.
f) PcrfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.8.3.2 Successful IP-CAN session modification
a) This measurement provides the number of successful IP-CAN session
modifications procedures initiated by UE.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the PCRF of a Credit-Control-Answer(CCA) Diameter
command to PCEF with an existing session ID and \"2xxx\" result-code in the
UE-Initiated IP-CAN session modification procedures(PCC Rule Provisioning in
PULL Mode) (see 3GPP TS 29.212[32], 3GPP TS 29.213[33], RFC 3588 [15]).
d) A single integer value.
e) QoS.ModfSuccCCA.
f) PcrfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.8.3.3 Failed IP-CAN session modification
a) This measurement provides the number of failed IP-CAN session modifications
procedures initiated by UE. The measurement is split into subcounters per the
reject cause.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the PCRF of a Credit-Control-Answer(CCA) Diameter
command to PCEF with non-2xxx result-code in the UE-Initiated IP-CAN session
modification procedures (PCC Rule Provisioning in PULL Mode) (see 3GPP TS
29.212 [32], 3GPP TS 29.213[33], RFC 3588 [15]). Each failed IP-CAN session
modification will be added to the relevant measurement according to the
failure cause. Possible failure causes are included in RFC 3588 [15]. The sum
of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the total number of failed
resource authorization procedures. In case only a subset of per cause
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix.
e) QoS.ModfFailCCA._Cause_
```{=html}
``` a) where _Cause_ identifies the failure cause.
```{=html}
``` f) PcrfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.8.3 PDP context modification related measurements
The measurements defined in subclauses 4.8.3.1, 4.8.3.2 and 4.8.3.3 are
subject to the \"2 out of 3 approach\".
#### 4.8.3.1 Attempted authorization of PDP context modification
i) This measurement provides the number of attempted authorizations of PDP
context modifications initiated by GGSN.
j) CC.
k) On receipt by the PDF of a COPS REQ message from GGSN to authorize a PDP
context modification request (see 3GPP TS 29.207 [13]).
l) A single integer value.
m) QoS.AttPdpContextModfAuth.
n) PdfFunction.
o) Valid for packet switched traffic.
p) IMS.
#### 4.8.3.2 Successful authorization of PDP context modification
i) This measurement provides the number of successful authorizations of PDP
context modifications initiated by GGSN.
j) CC.
k) On transmission by the PDF of a COPS DEC message containing only an INSTALL
decision to GGSN, in response to a PDP context modification request from GGSN,
indicating a successful authorization of PDP context modification (see 3GPP TS
29.207 [13]).
l) A single integer value.
m) QoS.SuccPdpContextModfAuth.
n) PdfFunction.
o) Valid for packet switched traffic.
p) IMS.
#### 4.8.3.3 Failed authorization of PDP context modification
i) This measurement provides the number of failed authorizations of PDP
context modifications initiated by GGSN.
j) CC.
k) On transmission by the PDF of a COPS DEC message containing an INSTALL
decision and a REMOVE decision to GGSN, corresponding to the receipt of the
PDP context modification request from GGSN (see 3GPP TS 29.207 [13]).
l) A single integer value.
m) QoS.FailPDPContextModfAuth.
n) PdfFunction.
o) Valid for packet switched traffic.
p) IMS.
#### 4.8.3.4 Indication of PDP context modification
a) This measurement provides the number of PDP context modifications to/from
0kbps initiated by GGSN.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the PDF of a COPS RPT message indicating the PDP context
modification to/from 0kbps from GGSN (see 3GPP TS 29.207 [13]).
d) A single integer value.
e) QoS.IndPdpContextModf.
f) PdfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
## 4.9 Measurements related to SLF
### 4.9.1 All routing information interrogations related measurements
#### 4.9.1.1 **Attempted** routing information interrogation procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of all routing information
interrogation requests received by the SLF via all diameter application
interfaces. The diameter interfaces can be Dx interface, Dh interface or Dw
interface.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the SLF of a routing information interrogation request
diameter message from all diameter interfaces (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7] and RFC
3588[15]).
d) A single integer value.
e) RII.AttAll.
f) SlfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.9.1.2 **Successful** routing information interrogation procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of all successful routing information
interrogation responses sent by the SLF via all diameter application
interfaces. The diameter interfaces can be Dx interface, Dh interface or Dw
interface.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the SLF of a routing information interrogation response
diameter message with the Result-Code AVP set to DIAMETER_REDIRECT_INDICATION
via all diameter interfaces, indicating a successful routing information
interrogation (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7] and RFC 3588 [15]).
d) A single integer value.
e) RII.SuccAll
f) SlfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.9.2 Routing information interrogation from CSCF related measurements
#### 4.9.2.1 **Overview**
The performance measurements defined in subclause 4.9.2 are related to routing
information interrogations at the SLF from CSCF.
Figure 18: Routing information interrogation procedure from CSCF
#### 4.9.2.2 **Attempted** routing information interrogation procedures from
CSCF
a) This measurement provides the number of routing information interrogation
requests received from CSCF by the SLF.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the SLF of a DX_SLF_QUERY message from CSCF via Dx interface
(see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) RII.AttFromCSCF.
f) SlfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.9.2.3 **Successful** routing information interrogation procedures from
CSCF
a) This measurement provides the number of successful routing information
interrogation responses sent to CSCF by the SLF.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the SLF of a DX_SLF_RESP message with the Result-Code
AVP set to DIAMETER_REDIRECT_INDICATION to CSCF via Dx interface (see 3GPP TS
23.228 [7] and RFC 3588[15]).
d) A single integer value.
e) RII.SuccFromCSCF.
f) SlfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.9.3 Routing information interrogation from AS related measurements
#### 4.9.3.1 **Overview**
The performance measurements defined in subclause 4.9.3 are related to routing
information interrogations at the SLF from AS.
Figure 19: Routing information interrogation procedure from AS
#### 4.9.3.2 **Attempted** routing information interrogation procedures from
AS
a) This measurement provides the number of routing information interrogations
requests received from AS by the SLF.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the SLF of a DH_SLF_QUERY message from AS via Dh interface
(see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) RII.AttFromAS.
f) SlfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.9.3.3 **Successful** routing information interrogation procedures from
AS
a) This measurement provides the number of successful routing information
interrogation responses sent to AS by the SLF.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the SLF of a DH_SLF_RESP message with the Result-Code
AVP set to DIAMETER_REDIRECT_INDICATION to AS via Dh interface (see 3GPP TS
23.228 [7] and RFC 3588[15]).
d) A single integer value.
e) RII.SuccFromAS.
f) SlfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
## 4.10 Measurements related to AS
### 4.10.1 Session control related measurements
#### 4.10.1.1 IM CN originated session establishments
For the IM CN originated session establishments AS may act as terminating UA,
redirect server, a SIP proxy, routeing B2BUA or initiating B2BUA. See 3GPP TS
24.229 [8] or 3GPP TS 23.228 [7].
##### 4.10.1.1.1 Attempted IM CN originated session establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted session establishments
originated from the IM CN.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the AS of an initial SIP_INVITE message from the IM CN (see
3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) SC.AttSessionImOrig.
f) ASFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.10.1.1.2 Successful IM CN originated session establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of successful session establishments
originated from the IM CN.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the AS of the first response message (e.g. SIP_180,
SIP_200 or SIP_302 etc. relating with the role of the AS) indicating a
successful IM CN originated session establishment corresponding to the initial
SIP_INVITE message, each successful session establishment is added to the
relevant measurement according to the message type, the possible response
message types are identified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [8]. The sum of all supported
per message type measurements shall equal the total number of successful IM CN
originated session establishments.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of message types plus a possible sum value identified by the
._sum_ suffix.
e) SC.SuccSessionImOrig._type_ \ where _type_ identifies the message type.
    The following subcounters with specific message types are the
    samples of this measurement:\
    SC.SuccSession.180 Message type: SIP\_180\
    SC.SuccSession.200 Message type: SIP\_200\_OK only if the SIP\_180
    has not been sent for this session.
f) ASFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.1.2 AS originated session establishments
For the AS originated session establishments, AS may act as originating UA,
routeing B2BUA or initiating B2BUA. See 3GPP TS 24.229 [8] or 3GPP TS
23.228[7].
##### 4.10.1.2.1 Attempted AS originated session establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted session establishments
originated from the AS.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the AS of an initial SIP_INVITE message indicating the
AS originated session establishment, each initial SIP_INVITE message
originated by the AS shall be counted as one attempted AS originated session
establishment.\ If the AS acts as originating UA, it initiates a session by
sending a SIP_INVITE message.\ If the AS acts as routeing B2BUA, it terminates
the request from IM CN and initiates a new session by sending a SIP_INVITE
message.\ If the AS acts as initiating B2BUA, it may initiates two new
sessions by sending two SIP_INVITE messages, or initiates one new session in
the case of receiving the request from the IM CN and the new session is
logically connected but unrelated to the incoming request (see 3GPP TS 24.229
[8]).
d) A single integer value.
e) SC.AttSessionAsOrig.
f) ASFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.10.1.2.2 Successful AS originated session establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of successful session establishments
originated from the AS.
b) CC.
c) On receipt of the first response message (e.g. SIP_180, SIP_200, etc.)
indicating a successful AS originated session establishment corresponding to
the initial SIP_INVITE message originated by the AS, each successful session
establishment is added to the relevant measurement according to the message
type, the possible response message types are identified in 3GPP TS 24.229
[8]. The sum of all supported per message type measurements shall equal the
total number of successful AS originated session establishments.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of message types plus a possible sum value identified by the
._sum_ suffix.
e) SC.SuccSessionAsOrig._type_ \ where _type_ identifies the message type.
    The following subcounters with specific message types are the
    samples of this measurement:\
    SC.SuccSession.180 Message type: SIP\_180\
    SC.SuccSession.200 Message type: SIP\_200\_OK only if the SIP\_180
    has not been received for this session.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.10.2 Messaging service related measurements
#### 4.10.2.1 Message related measurements, Page-Mode
##### 4.10.2.1.1 Attempted incoming messages, Page-Mode
a. This measurement provides number of attempted incoming messages > received
by the messaging enabler with page-mode at the AS.
b. CC.
c. On receipt by the AS (messaging enabler) of an initial SIP_MESSAGE >
message (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d. A single integer value.
e. MSG.AttIncMessagePM.
f. AsFunction.
g. Valid for packet switched traffic.
h. IMS.
##### 4.10.2.1.2 Successful incoming messages, Page-Mode
a) This measurement provides number of successful incoming messages > with
page-mode at the AS.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the AS (messaging enabler) of a response SIP_2XX >
message (see 3GPP TS 24.229 [8]) indicating the incoming message > is
successfully forwarded.
d) A single integer value.
e) MSG.SuccIncMessagePM.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.10.2.1.3 Attempted outgoing messages, Page-Mode
a) This measurement provides number of attempted outgoing messages >
transmitted by the messaging enabler with page-mode at the AS.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the AS (messaging enabler) of a SIP_MESSAGE > message
(see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) A single integer value.
e) MSG.AttOutMessagePM.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.10.2.1.4 Successful outgoing messages, Page-Mode
a) This measurement provides number of successful outgoing messages >
transmitted by the messaging enabler with page-mode at the AS.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the AS (messaging enabler) of a response SIP_2XX > message
(see 3GPP TS 24.229 [8]) indicating the message > transmitted by the AS is
successfully processed.
d) A single integer value.
e) MSG.SuccOutMessagePM.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.2.2 Message related measurements, Session-Mode
##### 4.10.2.2.1 Overview
The performance measurements defined in this subclause are related to message
sending with session mode. The following procedure shows the session based
messaging with an intermediate AS node. See 3GPP TS 23.228 [7].
{width="5.647222222222222in" height="5.529861111111111in"}
Figure 20: Session based messaging with an intermediate AS node scenario
##### 4.10.2.2.2 Attempted messaging session establishments, Session Mode
a) This measurement provides number of attempted messaging session >
establishments for the two participants received by the messaging > enabler
with session-mode at the AS.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the AS (messaging enabler) of an initial SIP_INVITE > message
initiated by a participant which requests to establish > sessions just for the
two participants for the messaging service > (see 3GPP TS 29.228 [9]).
d) A single integer value.
e) MSG.AttSesssionSM.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.10.2.2.3 Successful messaging session establishments, Session-Mode
a) This measurement provides number of successful messaging session >
establishments by the messaging enabler for the two participants > with
session-mode at the AS.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the AS (messaging enabler) of a SIP_200_OK > message
indicating a successful messaging session establishment > for the two
participants of Messaging Service (see 3GPP TS 29.228 > [9]).
d) A single integer value.
e) MSG.SuccSessionSM.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.10.3 Conference service related measurements
#### 4.10.3.1 Overview
The performance measurements defined in this subclause are related to the
conference service (see 3GPP TS 24.147 [24]).
The following procedures are of interest for this purpose:
\- User creating a conference;
\- User joining a conference;
\- AS inviting a user to a conference;
\- User subscribing to the conference event package.
Figure 21: User automatically creating a conference - MRFC/AS is located in
user\'s home network
Figure 22: User automatically creating a conference - MRFC/AS is not located
in user\'s home network
Figure 23: User calling into a conference - network MRFC/AS is not located in
user\'s home network - conference URI resolved by the terminating home network
Figure 24: User calling into a conference - MRFC/AS is not located in user\'s
home network - conference URI can be resolved by the originating home network
Figure 25: User inviting another user to a conference by sending a REFER
request to MRFC/AS
Figure 26: MRFC/AS inviting a user to a conference - MRFC/AS routes directly
to I-CSCF
Figure 27: MRFC/AS inviting another user to a conference by sending a REFER
request to UE#2
Figure 28: User subscribing to conference event package -\ MRFC/AS is not
located in user\'s home network
#### 4.10.3.2 Attempted creations of conference
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted creations of conference.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the Conference AS of a SIP_INVITE message to create the
conference (see 3GPP TS 24.147 [24]).
d) A single integer value.
e) CONF.AttCreation.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.3.3 Successful creations of conference
a) This measurement provides the number of successful creations of conference.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the Conference AS of a SIP_200_OK message indicating the
conference is successfully created (see 3GPP TS 24.147 [24]).
d) A single integer value.
e) CONF.SuccCreation.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.3.4 Attempted joining of conference
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted joining of conference.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the Conference AS of a SIP_INVITE message indicating the
requests by the user to join the conference (see 3GPP TS 24.147 [24]).
d) A single integer value.
e) CONF.AttJoining.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.3.5 Successful joining of conference
a) This measurement provides the number of successful joining of conference.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the Conference AS of a SIP_200_OK message indicating the
user has successfully joined the conference (see 3GPP TS 24.147 [24]).
d) A single integer value.
e) CONF.SuccJoining.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.3.6 Attempted invitations for another user to join conference
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted invitations for another
user to join conference.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the Conference AS of a SIP_INVITE message to invite a
user to join a conference (see 3GPP TS 24.147 [24]).
d) A single integer value.
e) CONF.AttInvitation.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.3.7 Successful invitations for another user to join conference
a) This measurement provides the number of successful invitations for another
user to join conference.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the Conference AS of a response message (e.g. SIP_183 or
SIP_200_OK) indicating the invited user has successfully joined the conference
(see 3GPP TS 24.147 [24]), each successful invitation is added to the relevant
measurement according to the message type, the possible response message types
are identified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [8]. The sum of all supported per message
type measurements shall equal the total number of successful invitations. In
case only a subset of per message type measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of message types plus a possible sum value identified by the
._sum_ suffix.
e) CONF.SuccInviJoinConf._type\_ where _type_ identifies the message type.
    The following subcounters with specific message types are the
    samples of this measurement:\
    CONF.SuccInvitation.183 Message type: SIP\_183\
    CONF.SuccInvitation.200 Message type: SIP\_200\_OK only if the
    SIP\_183 has not been received for this session.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.3.8 Attempted subscriptions for the conference event
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted subscriptions for the
conference event.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the Conference AS of SIP_SUBSCRIBE message initiated by the
conference participant (see 3GPP TS 24.147 [24]).
d) A single integer value.
e) CONF.AttSubscription
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.3.9 Successful subscriptions for the conference event
a) This measurement provides the number of successful subscriptions for the
conference event.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the AS of a SIP_200_OK message indicating the successful
subscription for the conference event, corresponding the SIP_SUBCRIBE request
message initiated by the conference participant (see 3GPP TS 24.147 [24]).
d) A single integer value.
e) CONF.SuccSubscription.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.3.10 Number of simultaneous online users (Maximum)
a) This measurement provides the maximum number of simultaneous online
conference users.
b) SI.
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined interval the
number of simultaneous online users on the conference and then taking the
maximum.
d) A single integer value.
e) CONF.OnlineUserMax.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.3.11 Number of simultaneous online conferences (Maximum)
a) This measurement provides the maximum number of simultaneous online
conferences.
b) SI.
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined interval the
number of simultaneous online conferences and then taking the maximum.
d) A single integer value.
e) CONF.OnlineConfMax.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.3.12 Number of simultaneous online users (Mean)
a) This measurement provides the mean number of simultaneous online users.
b) SI.
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined interval the
number of simultaneous online users on the conference and then taking the
arithmetic mean.
d) A single integer value.
e) CONF.OnlineUserMean.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.3.13 Number of simultaneous online conferences (Mean)
a) This measurement provides the mean number of simultaneous online
conferences.
b) SI.
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined interval the
number of simultaneous online conferences and then taking the arithmetic mean.
d) A single integer value.
e) CONF.OnlineConfMean.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.10.4 Presence service related measurements
#### 4.10.4.1 Number of simultaneous online watchers (Maximum)
a) This measurement provides the maximum number of simultaneous online
watchers at the presence enabler/AS.
b) SI.
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined interval the
number of simultaneous online watchers which have been registered and then
taking the maximum.
d) A single integer value.
e) PRES.OnlineWatcherMax.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.4.2 Number of simultaneous online presentities (Maximum)
a) This measurement provides the maximum number of simultaneous online
presentities in the presence enabler/AS.
b) SI.
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined interval the
number of simultaneous online presentities which have been registered and then
taking the maximum.
d) A single integer value.
e) PRES.OnlinePresentityMax.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.4.3 Number of simultaneous online watchers (Mean)
a) This measurement provides the number of mean number of simultaneous online
watchers in the presence enabler/AS.
b) SI.
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined interval the
number of simultaneous online watchers which have been registered and then
taking the arithmetic mean.
d) A single integer value.
e) PRES.MeanOnlineWatcher.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.4.4 Number of simultaneous online presentities (Mean)
a) This measurement provides the number of mean number of simultaneous online
presentities in the presence enabler/AS.
b) SI.
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined interval the
number of simultaneous online presentities which have been registered and then
taking the arithmetic mean.
d) A single integer value.
e) PRES.MeanOnlinePresentity.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.4.5 Attempted subscriptions for presence
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted subscriptions received by
the presence enabler/AS.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the AS (presence enabler) of a SIP_SUBSCRIBE message (see
3GPP TS 23.141[25]).
d) A single integer value.
e) PRES.AttSubscribe.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.4.6 Successful subscriptions for presence
a) This measurement provides the number of successful subscriptions at the
presence enabler/AS.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the AS (presence enabler) of a response message (e.g.
SIP_200_OK or SIP_202_Accepted) for the subscription request from the IM CN
(See 3GPP TS 23.141 [25]), each successful subscription is added to the
relevant measurement according to the message type, the possible response
message types are identified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [8]. The sum of all supported
per message type measurements shall equal the total number of successful
subscriptions. In case only a subset of per message type measurements is
supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of message types plus a possible sum value identified by the
._sum_ suffix.
e) PRES.SuccSubscribe. _type\_ where _type_ identifies the message type.
    The following subcounters with specific message types are the
    samples of this measurement:\
    SC.SuccSession.200 Message type: SIP\_200\_OK\
    SC.SuccSession.202 Message type: SIP\_202 only if the SIP\_200\_OK
    has not been sent for this session.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.4.7 Attempted notifications for presence
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted notifications sent by the
presence enabler/AS.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the AS (presence enabler) of a SIP_NOTIFY message to the
IM CN (see 3GPP TS 23.141 [25]).
d) A single integer value.
e) PRES.AttNotify.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.4.8 Successful notifications for presence
a) This measurement provides the number of successful notifications send by
the presence enabler/AS.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the AS (presence enabler) of a SIP_200_OK message indicating
the successful notification corresponding to the SIP_NOTIFY message sent by
the AS (see 3GPP TS 23.141 [25]).
d) A single integer value.
e) PRES.SuccNotify.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.4.9 Attempted publications for presence
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted publications received by
the presence enabler/AS.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the AS (presence enabler) of a SIP_PUBLISH message (see 3GPP
TS 23.141 [25]).
d) A single integer value.
e) PRES.AttPublish.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.4.10 Successful publications for presence
a) This measurement provides the number of successful publications at the
presence enabler/AS.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the AS (presence enabler) of a SIP_200_OK message
indicating the successful publication, corresponding to received SIP_PUBLISH
message (see 3GPP TS 23.141 [25]).
d) A single integer value.
e) PRES.SuccPub.
f) ASFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.10.5 PoC service related measurements
#### 4.10.5.1 Attempted creations of PoC session
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted creations of PoC session.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the PoC AS of SIP_INVITE message for creation of PoC session
(see 3GPP TR 23.979 [26]).
d) A single integer value.
e) PoC.AttCreation.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.5.2 Successful creations of PoC session
a) This measurement provides the number of successful creation ofPoC session.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the PoC AS of a SIP_200_OK message indicating the PoC
session is successfully created (see 3GPP TR 23.979 [26]).
d) A single integer value.
e) PoC.SuccCreation.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.5.3 Attempted joining of PoC session
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted joining PoC session
requests which means that the user calls into the PoC session.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the PoC AS of PoC session SIP_INVITE message indicating the
requests by the user to join the PoC session (see 3GPP TR 23.979 [26]).
d) A single integer value.
e) PoC.AttJoining.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.5.4 Successful joining of PoC session
a) This measurement provides the number of successful joining of PoC session.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the PoC AS of a SIP_200_OK message indicating the user
has successfully joined the PoC session (see 3GPP TR 23.979 [26]).
d) A single integer value.
e) PoC.SuccJoining.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.5.5 Attempted invitations for another user to join PoC session
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted invitations for another
user to join PoC session.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the PoC AS of a SIP_INVITE message to invite a user to
join a PoC session (see 3GPP TR 23.979 [26]).
d) A single integer value.
e) PoC.AttInvitation.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.5.6 Successful invitations for another user to join PoC session
a) This measurement provides the number of successful invitations for another
user to join PoC session.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the PoC AS of a SIP_200_OK message indicating the invited
user has successfully joined the PoC session (see 3GPP TR 23.979 [26]).
d) A single integer value.
e) PoC.SuccInvitation.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.5.7 Number of simultaneous online users (Maximum)
a) This measurement provides the maximum number of simultaneous online PoC
users.
b) SI.
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined interval the
number of simultaneous online users that have been joined and then taking the
maximum.
d) A single integer value.
e) PoC.OnlineUserMax.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.5.8 Number of simultaneous online PoC session (Maximum)
a) This measurement provides the maximum number of simultaneous online PoC
sessions.
b) SI.
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined interval the
number of simultaneous online PoC sessions and then taking the maximum.
d) A single integer value.
e) PoC.OnlineSessionMax.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.10.6 Measurements related to XDM Enabler
#### 4.10.6.1 XCAP operation related measurements
##### 4.10.6.1.1 Overview
The performance measurements defined in this subclause are related to the XCAP
operation request from the XDMC for document manipulation (e.g.
retrieving/adding/deleting elements/attributes, etc.) stored in XDMS. See
\"XML Document Management (XDM) Specification\", OMA-TS-XDM_Core-V1_0 [27].
The procedures are shown in figure 29.
Figure 29: XCAP operation request procedures
##### 4.10.6.1.2 Attempted HTTP PUT procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted HTTP PUT procedures.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the XDMS of a HTTP_PUT request from the aggregation proxy
(see OMA-TS-XDM_Core-V1_0 [27]).
d) A single integer value.
e) XDM.AttHttpPut.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.10.6.1.3 Successful HTTP PUT procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of successful HTTP PUT procedures.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the XDMS of a response message (e.g. HTTP_200_OK)
indicating a successful HTTP PUT procedure, each successful HTTP PUT procedure
is added to the relevant measurement according to the message type, the
possible response message types are identified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [8]. The sum
of all supported per message type measurements shall equal the total number of
successful HTTP PUT procedures. In case only a subset of per message type
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of message types plus a possible sum value identified by the
._sum_ suffix.
e) XDM.SuccHttpPut._type\_ where _type_ identifies the message type.
    The following subcounters with specific message types are the
    samples of this measurement:\
    XDM.SuccHttpPut.200 Message type: SIP\_200\_OK.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.10.6.1.4 Attempted HTTP GET procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted HTTP GET procedures.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the XDMS of a HTTP_GET request from the aggregation proxy
(See OMA-TS-XDM_Core-V1_0 [27]).
d) A single integer value.
e) XDM.AttHttpGet.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.10.6.1.5 Successful HTTP GET procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of successful HTTP GET procedures.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the XDMS of a response message (e.g. HTTP_200_OK)
indicating a successful HTTP GET procedure, each successful HTTP GET procedure
is added to the relevant measurement according to the message type, the
possible response message types are identified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [8]. The sum
of all supported per message type measurements shall equal the total number of
successful HTTP GET procedures. In case only a subset of per message type
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of message types plus a possible sum value identified by the
._sum_ suffix.
e) XDM.SuccHttpGet._type\_ where _type_ identifies the message type.
    The following subcounters with specific message types are the
    samples of this measurement:\
    XDM.SuccHttpGet.200 Message type: SIP\_200\_OK.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.10.6.1.6 Attempted HTTP DELETE procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted HTTP **DELETE**
procedures.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the XDMS of a HTTP_ **DELETE** request from the aggregation
proxy (see OMA‑TS‑XDM_Core‑V1_0 [27]).
d) A single integer value.
e) XDM.AttHttpDel.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.10.6.1.7 Successful HTTP DELETE procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of successful HTTP **DELETE**
procedures.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the XDMS of a response message (e.g. HTTP_200_OK)
indicating a successful HTTP DELETE procedure, each successful HTTP DELETE
procedure is added to the relevant measurement according to the message type,
the possible response message types are identified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [8]. The
sum of all supported per message type measurements shall equal the total
number of successful HTTP DELETE procedures. In case only a subset of per
message type measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided
first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of message types plus a possible sum value identified by the
._sum_ suffix.
e) XDM.SuccHttpDel._type\_ where _type_ identifies the message type.
    The following subcounters with specific message types are the
    samples of this measurement:\
    XDM.SuccHttpDel.200 Message type: SIP\_200\_OK.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.10.6.2 SIP related measurements
##### 4.10.6.2.1 Overview
The performance measurements defined in this subclause are related to SIP
procedures for subscribing and notifying the changes in the XML documents
stored in the XDMS. See \"XML Document Management (XDM) Specification\",
OMA‑TS-XDM_Core-V1_0 [27].
The procedures are shown in figure 30.
{width="4.186111111111111in" height="3.8930555555555557in"}
Figure 30: XDM Client subscribes to changes in XDMS Procedures
##### 4.10.6.2.2 Attempted Subscription procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted subscription >
procedures.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the XDMS of a SIP_SUBSCRIBE message (See > OMA-TS-
XDM_Core-V1_0 [27]).
d) A single integer value.
e) XDM.AttSubscibe.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.10.6.2.3 Successful Subscription procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of successful subscription >
procedures.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the XDMS of a response SIP_200_OK message > indicating a
successful subscription procedure (see > OMA-TS-XDM_Core-V1_0 [27]).
d) A single integer value.
e) XDM.SuccSubscribe.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.10.6.2.4 Attempted Notification procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted **notification** >
procedures.
b) CC.
c) On sending by the XDMS of a SIP_NOTIFY message (see > OMA-TS-XDM_Core-V1_0
[27]).
d) A single integer value.
e) XDM.AttNotify.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
##### 4.10.6.2.5 Successful Notification procedures
a) This measurement provides the number of successful notification >
procedures.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the XDMS of a response SIP_200_OK message indicating > the
successful XDMS originated notification procedures.
d) A single integer value.
e) XDM.SuccNotify.
f) AsFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
### 4.11 Measurements related to IBCF
Editor\'s note: IbcfFunction used in following text is a subject for further
study of IMS NRM modelling for R8 requirements and will align with IMS NRM
defined in 3GPP TS 32.732 [30].
#### 4.11.1 Attempted session establishments from users of other **network**
domains
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted session establishments
originated from the users (regardless of whether the user is roaming or not)
who are belonging to other network domains at the IBCF in the terminating
network. The measurement is split into subcounters per network domain.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the IBCF of a SIP_ INVITE message, and the calling party is
belonging to other network domains (i.e. the domain name information of the
calling party retrieved from the SIP_INVITE message is different from the
domain of this IBCF). Each session whose calling party recognized by the IBCF
as belonging to a given network domain is added to the relevant per network
domain measurement. The sum of all supported per network domain measurements
shall equal the total number of attempted session establishments from users of
other **network** domains. In case only a subset of per network measurements
is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first (see 3GPP TS 23.228
[7]).
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of network domain plus a possible sum value identified by the
_.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form IDS.AttSessionFromOtherNtwkDmn._Domain_ \
where _Domain_ identifies the network domain, and it is in the format of the
domain name information in the SIP messages.
f) IbcfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.11.2 403 **(** Forbidden**) generated for** sessions from users of
other **network** domains
a) This measurement provides the number of SIP_403 (Forbidden) response
messages at the IBCF in the terminating network generated for the sessions
from users of other **network** domains. The measurement is split into
subcounters per network domain.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the IBCF of SIP_403 message corresponding to the SIP_
INVITE message of which the calling party is belonging to other network
domains received by the IBCF. Each SIP_403 message generated by the IBCF for
the session whose calling party is belonging to a given network domain is
added to the relevant per network domain measurement. The sum of all supported
per network domain measurements shall equal the total number of 403 **(**
Forbidden**) generated for** sessions from users of other **network** domains.
In case only a subset of per network measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter will be provided first (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of network domain plus a possible sum value identified by the
_.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form IDS.403SessionFromOtherNtwkDmn._Domain_ \
where _Domain_ identifies the network domain, and it is in the format of the
domain name information in the SIP messages.
f) IbcfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.11.3 Attempted session establishments to users of other **network**
domains
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted session establishments
towards users (regardless of whether the user is roaming or not) who are
belonging to other network domains at the IBCF in the originating network. The
measurement is split into subcounters per network domain.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the IBCF of a SIP_ INVITE messages, and the called party
is belonging to other network domains (i.e. the domain name information of the
called party retrieved from the SIP_INVITE message is different from the
domain of this IBCF). Each session whose called party recognized by the IBCF
as belonging to a given network domain is added to the relevant per network
domain measurement. The sum of all supported per network measurements shall
equal the total number of attempted session establishments to users of other
**network** domains. In case only a subset of per network measurements is
supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of network domain plus a possible sum value identified by the
_.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form IDS.AttSessionToOtherNtwkDmn._Domain_ \
where _Domain_ identifies the network domain, and it is in the format of the
domain name information in the SIP messages.
f) IbcfFunction.
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#### 4.11.4 403 **(** Forbidden**) received for** sessions to users of other
**network** domains
a) This measurement provides the number of SIP_403 (Forbidden) response
messages received for sessions to users of other **network** domains at the
IBCF in the originating network. The measurement is split into subcounters per
network domain.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the IBCF of SIP_403 message corresponding to the SIP_ INVITE
message of which the called party is belonging to other network domains
transmitted by the IBCF. Each SIP_403 message received by the IBCF for the
session whose called party is belonging to a given network domain is added to
the relevant per network domain measurement. The sum of all supported per
network domain measurements shall equal the total number of 403 **(**
Forbidden**) received for** sessions to users of other **network** domains. In
case only a subset of per network measurements is supported, a sum subcounter
will be provided first (see 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of network domain plus a possible sum value identified by the
_.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form IDS.403SessionToOtherNtwkDmn._Domain_ \
where _Domain_ identifies the network domain, and it is in the format of the
domain name information in the SIP messages.
f) IbcfFunction
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
# 5 Equipment related measurements
The measurements defined in this subclause are related to the equipment aspect
performance. The measurements defined in the following subclauses are common
for all of the equipments in IMS and shall be applied to all of the network
elements in IMS.
## 5.1 Processor usage
### 5.1.1 Mean processor usage
a) This measurement provides the mean usage of each key processor during the
granularity period. Each equipment may have more than one key processors, the
measurement is split into subcounters per key processor.
b) SI.
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined interval the
usage of the processor and then taking the arithmetic mean for each key
processor.
d) Each measurement is an integer value (Unit: %).
e) The measurement name has the form EQPT.MeanProcessorUsage._ProcessorID\_
where _ProcessorID_ identifies the key processor of this equipment, the format
of _ProcessorID_ is vendor specific.
f) ManagedElement.
g) Valid for circuit switched and packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
### 5.1.2 Peak processor usage
a) This measurement provides the peak usage of each key processor during the
granularity period. Each equipment may have more than one key processors, the
measurement is split into subcounters per key processor.
b) SI.
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined interval the
usage of the processor and then taking the maximum for each key processor.
d) Each measurement is an integer value (Unit: %).
e) The measurement name has the form EQPT.PeakProcessorUsage._ProcessorID\_
where _ProcessorID_ identifies the key processor of this equipment, the format
of _ProcessorID_ is vendor specific.
f) ManagedElement.
g) Valid for circuit switched and packet switched traffic.
h) IMS.
#