# Foreword {#foreword .TT}
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction {#introduction .TT}
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.401 Performance Management (PM); Concept and requirements
52.402 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements -- GSM
32.404 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements - Definitions and
template
32.405 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (UTRAN)
32.406 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Core Network (CN)
Packet Switched (PS) domain
32.407 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Core Network (CN)
Circuit Switched (CS) domain
32.408 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Teleservice
32.409 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements IP Multimedia
Subsystem (IMS)
**32.425 Performance Management (PM); Evolved Performance measurements
Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN)**
32.426 Performance Management (PM); Evolved Packet Core (EPC)
The present document is part of a set of specifications, which describe the
requirements and information model necessary for the standardised Operation,
Administration and Maintenance (OA&M) of a multi-vendor E-UTRAN and EPC
system.
During the lifetime of an E-UTRAN, its logical and physical configuration will
undergo changes of varying degrees and frequencies in order to optimise the
utilisation of the network resources. These changes will be executed through
network configuration management activities and/or network engineering, see TS
32.600 [3].
Many of the activities involved in the daily operation and future network
planning of an E-UTRAN require data on which to base decisions. This data
refers to the load carried by the network and the grade of service offered. In
order to produce this data performance measurements are executed in the NEs,
which comprise the network. The data can then be transferred to an external
system, e.g. an Operations System (OS) in TMN terminology, for further
evaluation. The purpose of the present document is to describe the mechanisms
involved in the collection of the data and the definition of the data itself.
Annex B of TS 32.404 helps in the definition of new performance measurements
that can be submitted to 3GPP for potential adoption and inclusion in the
present document. Annex B of TS 32.404 discusses a top-down performance
measurement definition methodology that focuses on how the end-user of
performance measurements can use the measurements.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the measurements for E-UTRAN.
TS 32.401 [5] describes Performance Management concepts and requirements.
The present document is valid for all measurement types provided by an
implementation of an E-UTRAN.
Only measurement types that are specific to E-UTRAN are defined within the
present documents. Vendor specific measurement types used in E-UTRAN are not
covered. Instead, these could be applied according to manufacturer\'s
documentation.
Measurements related to \"external\" technologies (such as ATM or IP) as
described by \"external\" standards bodies (e.g. ITU-T or IETF) shall only be
referenced within this specification, wherever there is a need identified for
the existence of such a reference.
The definition of the standard measurements is intended to result in
comparability of measurement data produced in a multi-vendor network, for
those measurement types that can be standardised across all vendors\'
implementations.
The structure of the present document is as follows:
\- Header 1: Network Element (e.g. measurements related to eNodeB);
\- Header 2: Measurement function (e.g. RRC connection setup related
measurements);
\- Header 3: Measurements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication > and/or edition number or version number) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] Void.
[5] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Concept and requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.404: \"Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements -
Definitions and template\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.762: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol specification\".
[9] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Access Network (E-UTRAN);
S1 Application Protocol (S1AP)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.423: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(EUTRAN); X2 application protocol (X2AP)\".
[11] TS 36.314, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Layer 2
-- Measurements (Release 8)"
[12] TS 36.300, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2 (Release 8)"
[13] 3GPP TS 32.450 Telecommunication management; Key Performance Indicators
(KPI) for E-UTRAN: Definitions (Release 8)
[14] 3GPP TS 36.304, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode"
# 3 Measurement family and abbreviations
## 3.1 Measurement family
The measurement names defined in the present document are all beginning with a
prefix containing the measurement family name (e.g. RRC.AttConnEstab._Cause_).
This family name identifies all measurements which relate to a given
functionality and it may be used for measurement administration (see TS 32.401
[5]).
The list of families currently used in the present document is as follows:
\- DRB (measurements related to Data Radio Bearer)
\- RRC (measurements related to Radio Resource Control)
\- RRU (measurements related to Radio Resource Utilization)
\- ERAB (measurements related to E-RAB)
\- HO (measurements related to Handover)
\- S1SIG (measurements related to S1 Signalling)
\- SRB (measurements related to Signalling Radio Bearer)
\- PAG (measurements related to Paging)
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
3G 3^rd^ Generation
3GPP 3G Partnership Project
EPS Evolved Packet System
E-RAB E-UTRAN Radio Access Bearer
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
HO Handover
QoS Quality of Service
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
You can find below a list of abbreviations used within the measurement types
for field E of the measurement template (see 3GPP TS 32.404 [6]).
Alloc Allocation
Att Attempt(s,ed)
Conn Connection
Ded Dedicated
DL Downlink
ENB eNodeB
Estab Establish (ed,ment)
Fail Fail(ed, ure)
Freq Frequency
Inc Incoming
Out Outgoing
Pkt Packet(s)
Prep Prepare(/Preparation)
Late Latency
Mod Modify(/Modification)
Nbr Number
Rel Release(s,d)
Res Resource
Succ Success(es,ful)
UL Uplink
# 4 Measurements related to eNodeB
## 4.1 RRC connection related measurements
### 4.1.1 RRC connection establishment
The three measurement types defined in the subclause 4.1.1.n are subject to
the \"2 out of 3 approach\".
#### 4.1.1.1 Attempted RRC connection establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of RRC connection establishment
attempts for each establishment cause.
b) CC
c) Receipt of a RRCConnectionRequest message by the eNodeB from the UE. > Each
RRCConnectionRequest message received is added to the > relevant per
establishment cause measurement. The possible causes > are included in TS
36.331 [8]. The sum of all supported per > cause measurements shall equal the
total number of > RRCConnectionRequest. In case only a subset of per cause >
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided > first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is > equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified > by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form RRC.ConnEstabAtt._Cause_ \ > where
_Cause_ identifies the establishment cause.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ > EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.1.1.2 Successful RRC connection establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of successful RRC establishments for
each establishment cause.
b) CC
c) Receipt by the eNodeB of a RRCConnectionSetupComplete message > following a
RRC connection establishment request. Each > RRCConnectionSetupComplete
message received is added to the > relevant per establishment cause
measurement. The possible causes > are included in TS 36.331 [8]. The sum of
all supported per > cause measurements shall equal the total number of
successful RRC > Connection Establishments. In case only a subset of per cause
> measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided > first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is > equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified > by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form RRC.ConnEstabSucc._Cause_ \ > where
_Cause_ identifies the establishment cause.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ > EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.1.1.3 Failed RRC connection establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of RRC establishment failures for each
establishment cause.
b) CC
c) Transmission of an RRCConnectionReject message by the eNodeB to the UE or
an expected RRCConnectionSetupComplete message not received by the eNodeB.
Each failed RRC connection establishment is added to the relevant per
establishment cause measurement. The possible causes are included in TS 36.331
[8].\ The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the total
number of RRC connection establishment failures. In case only a subset of per
cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form RRC.ConnEstabFail._Cause_ \ where _Cause_
identifies the establishment cause.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.1.2 RRC connection re-establishment
The three measurement types defined in the subclause 4.1.2.n are subject to
the \"2 out of 3 approach\".
#### 4.1.2.1 Attempted RRC connection re-establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of RRC connection re-establishment
attempts for each re-establishment cause.
b) CC.
c) Receipt of a RRCConnectionReestablishmentRequest message by the eNodeB from
the UE. Each RRCConnectionReestablishmentRequest received is added to the
relevant per reestablishment cause measurement. The possible causes are
included in TS 36.331 [8]. The sum of all supported per cause measurements
shall equal the total number of RRC connection re-stablishment attempts. In
case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter
will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form RRC.ConnReEstabAtt._Cause_ \ where
_Cause_ identifies the reestablishment cause.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
#### 4.1.2.2 Successful RRC connection re-establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of successful RRC connection re-
establishments for each re-establishment cause.
b) CC.
c) Receipt by the eNodeB of a RRCConnectionReestablishmentComplete message
following a RRC connection reestablishment request. Each
RRCConnectionReestablishmentComplete message received is added to the relevant
per reestablishment cause measurement. The possible causes are included in TS
36.331 [8]. The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the
total number of successful RRC connection re-establishments. In case only a
subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be
provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form RRC.ConnReEstabSucc._Cause_ \ where
_Cause_ identifies the establishment cause.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
#### 4.1.2.3 Failed RRC connection re-establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of RRC re-establishment failures for
each re-establishment cause.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of an RRCConnectionReestablishmentReject message by the eNodeB
to the UE or an expected RRCConnectionReestablishmentComplete message not
received by the eNodeB.\ Each failed RRC connection re-establishment is added
to the relevant per re-establishment.cause measurement. The possible causes
are included in TS 36.331 [8].\ The sum of all supported per cause
measurements shall equal the total number of RRC connection re-establishment
failures. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form RRC.ConnReEstabFail._Cause_ \ where
_Cause_ identifies the re-establishment.cause.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
### 4.1.3 RRC connection number
#### 4.1.3.1 Mean number of RRC Connections
a) This measurement provides the mean number of RRC Connections during each
granularity period.
b) SI.
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined interval, the
number of RRC connections for each E-UTRAN Cell and then taking the arithmetic
mean
d) A single integer value.
e) RRC.ConnMean
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
#### 4.1.3.2 Maximum number of RRC Connections
a) This measurement provides the maximum number of RRC Connections during each
granularity period.
b) SI.
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined interval, the
number of RRC connections for each E-UTRAN cell and then taking the maximum.
d) A single integer value.
e) RRC.ConnMax
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
### 4.1.4 RRC connection setup time
#### 4.1.4.1 Mean RRC connection setup time
a) This measurement provides the mean time per establishment cause it > takes
to establish an RRC connection.
b) DER (n=1).
c) This measurement is obtained by accumulating the time intervals for > every
successful RRC connection establishment between the receipt > of a
RRCConnectionRequest and the corresponding > RRCConnectionSetupComplete
message by the eNodeB over the > granularity period. The end value of this
time will then be > divided by the number of successful RRC connections
observed in > the granularity period to give the arithmetic mean. The >
accumulator shall be reinitialised at the beginning of each > granularity
period. The measurement is split into subcounters per > establishment cause,
and the possible causes are included in > TS 36.331 [8].
d) Each measurement is an integer value (in milliseconds).
e) The measurement name has the form RRC.ConnEstabTimeMean._Cause_ \ > where
_Cause_ identifies the establishment cause
f) EUtranCellFDD\ > EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
#### 4.1.4.2 Maximum RRC connection setup time
a) This measurement provides the maximum time per establishment cause it takes
to establish an RRC connection.
b) GAUGE.
c) This measurement is obtained by monitoring the time intervals for > each
successful RRC connection establishment between the receipt > of a
RRCConnectionRequest and the corresponding > RRCConnectionSetupComplete
message by the eNodeB over the > granularity period. The high tide mark of
this time will be stored > in a gauge, the gauge shall be reinitialised at the
beginning of > each granularity period. The measurement is split into
subcounters > per establishment cause, and the possible causes are included in
> TS 36.331 [8].
d) Each measurement is an integer value (in milliseconds).
e) The measurement name has the form RRC.ConnEstabTimeMax._Cause_ \ > where
_Cause_ identifies the establishment cause
f) EUtranCellFDD\ > EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
## 4.2 E-RAB related measurements
### 4.2.1 E-RAB setup
#### 4.2.1.1 Number of initial E-RABs attempted to setup
a) This measurement provides the number of initial E-RABs attempted to setup.
The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level (QCI).
b) CC
c) On receipt by the eNodeB of an INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST message, each
requested E-RAB in the message is added to the relevant measurement per QCI,
the possible QCIs are included in TS 36.413 [9]. The sum of all supported per
QCI measurements shall equal the total number of E-RABs attempted to setup. In
case only a subset of per QCI measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will
be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.EstabInitAttNbr._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.2.1.2 Number of initial E-RABs successfully established
a) This measurement provides the number of initial E-RABs successfully
established. The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RABs QoS level
(QCI).
b) CC
c) On transmission by the eNodeB of an INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP RESPONSE message,
each E-RAB successfully established is added to the relevant measurement per
QCI, the possible QCIs are included in TS 36.413 [9]. The sum of all supported
per QCI measurements shall equal the total number of E-RABs successfully
setup. In case only a subset of per QCI measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.EstabInitSuccNbr._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.2.1.3 Number of initial E-RABs failed to setup
a) This measurement provides the number of initial E-RABs failed to setup. The
measurement is split into subcounters per failure cause.
b) CC
c) On transmission by the eNodeB of an INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP RESPONSE, or
INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP FAILURE message, each E-RAB failed to establish is added
to the relevant measurement per cause, the possible causes are included in TS
36.413 [9]. The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the
total number of E-RAB s failed to setup. In case only a subset of per cause
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.EstabInitFailNbr._Cause_ \ where
_Cause_ identifies the cause resulting in the initial E-RAB setup failure.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.2.1.4 Number of additional E-RABs attempted to setup
a) This measurement provides the number of additional E-RABs attempted > to
setup. The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS > level (QCI).
b) CC
c) On receipt by the eNodeB of an E-RAB SETUP REQUEST message, each requested
E-RAB in the message is added to the relevant measurement per QCI, the
possible QCIs are included in TS 36.413 [9]. The sum of all supported per QCI
measurements shall equal the total number of additional E-RABs attempted to
setup. In case only a subset of per QCI measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is > equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified > by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.EstabAddAttNbr._QCI_ \ > where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ > EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) This measurement is to support the Accessibility KPI "E-RAB >
Accessibility" defined in [13].
#### 4.2.1.5 Number of additional E-RABs successfully established
a) This measurement provides the number of additional E-RAB s > successfully
established. The measurement is split into > subcounters per E-RAB QoS level
(QCI).
b) CC
c) On transmission by the eNodeB of an E-RAB SETUP RESPONSE message, > each
E-RAB successfully established is added to the relevant > measurement per QCI,
the possible QCIs are included in > TS 36.413 [9]. The sum of all supported
per QCI measurements > shall equal the total number of additional E-RABs
successfully > setup. In case only a subset of per QCI measurements is
supported, > a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is > equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified > by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.EstabAddSuccNbr._QCI_ \ > where
_QCI_ identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ > EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) This measurement is to support the Accessibility KPI "E-RAB >
Accessibility" defined [13].
#### 4.2.1.6 Number of additional E-RABs failed to setup
a) This measurement provides the number of additional E-RABs failed to setup.
The measurement is split into subcounters per failure cause.
b) CC
c) On transmission by the eNodeB of an E-RAB SETUP RESPONSE message, > each
E-RAB failed to establish is added to the relevant > measurement per cause,
the possible causes are included in > TS 36.413 [9]. The sum of all supported
per cause measurements > shall equal the total number of additional E-RABs
failed to setup. > In case only a subset of per cause measurements is
supported, a > sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is > equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified > by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB. EstabAddFailNbr._Cause_ \ > where
_Cause_ identifies the cause resulting in the additional > E-RAB setup
failure.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ > EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.2.1.7 Mean E-RAB Setup time
a) This measurement provides the mean time per QCI it takes to establish an
E-RAB.
b) DER (n=1)
c) This measurement is obtained by accumulating the time intervals for every
successfully established E-RAB between the receipt of an E-RAB SETUP REQUEST
or INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST message and the transmission of the
corresponding E-RAB SETUP RESPONSE or INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP RESPONSE message
by the eNodeB over the granularity period. The end value of this time will
then be divided by the number of successfully established E-RABs in the
granularity period to give the arithmetic mean. The accumulator shall be
reinitialised at the beginning of each granularity period. The measurement is
split into subcounters per QCI, and the possible QCIs are included in TS
36.413 [9].
d) Each measurement is an integer value (in milliseconds).
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.EstabTimeMean._QCI\_ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
#### 4.2.1.8 Maximum E-RAB Setup time
a) This measurement provides the maximum time per QCI it takes to establish an
E-RAB.
b) GAUGE
c) This measurement is obtained by monitoring the time intervals for every
successfully established E-RAB between the receipt of an E-RAB SETUP REQUEST
or INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST message and the transmission of the
corresponding E-RAB SETUP RESPONSE or INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP RESPONSE message
by the eNodeB over the granularity period. The high tide mark of this time
will be stored in a gauge, the gauge shall be reinitialised at the beginning
of each granularity period..\ The measurement is split into subcounters per
QCI, and the possible QCIs are included in TS 36.413 [9].
d) Each measurement is an integer value (in milliseconds).
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.EstabTimeMax._QCI\_ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
### 4.2.2 E-RAB release
#### 4.2.2.1 Number of E-RABs requested to release initiated by eNodeB per QCI
a) This measurement provides the number of E-RABs requested to release
initiated by eNodeB. The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS
level (QCI).
b) CC
c) On transmission by the eNodeB of an E-RAB RELEASE INDICATION or a UE
CONTEXT RELEASE REQUEST or a RESET message to MME, each corresponding E-RAB
requested to release is added to the relevant measurement per QCI, the
possible QCIs are included in TS 36.413 [9]. The sum of all supported per QCI
measurements shall equal the total number of E-RABs requested to release
initiated by eNodeB. In case only a subset of per QCI measurements is
supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.RelEnbNbr._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
    4.2.2.2 Number of E-RABs requested to release initiated by eNodeB
    per cause
```{=html}
``` a) This measurement provides the number of E-RABs requested to release
initiated by eNodeB. The measurement is split into subcounters per cause.
b) CC
c) On transmission by the eNodeB of an E-RAB RELEASE INDICATION or a UE
CONTEXT RELEASE REQUEST or a RESET message to MME, each corresponding E-RAB
requested to release is added to the relevant measurement per cause. Possible
causes are included in TS 36.413 [9].
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of supported causes.
e) The measurement names have the form ERAB.RelEnbNbr._cause_ \ where _cause_
identifies the reason for the E-RABs release request initiated by eNodeB.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.2.2.3 Number of E-RABs attempted to release
a) This measurement provides the number of E-RABs attempted to release. The
measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level (QCI).
b) CC
c) On receipt by the eNodeB of an E-RAB RELEASE COMMAND or UE CONTEXT RELEASE
COMMAND or a RESET message from MME ; or on receipt by the eNB of a PATH
SWITCH REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE or PATH SWITCH REQUEST FAILED message by which some
or all E-RABs in the corresponding PATH SWITCH REQUEST need to be released; or
on receipt by the eNB of a _RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message from
the UE, indicating a successful intra-eNB handover (see TS 36.331 [8]), i.e.,
the E-RABs in the cooresponding _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message can be
released by the source EUtran cell;or on receipt by the eNodeB of an UE
CONTEXT RELEASE message from another eNodeB, ; or transmission by the eNodeB
of an E-RAB Release Indication or a RESET message to MME . Each corresponding
E-RAB to release is added to the relevant measurement per QCI, the possible
QCIs are included in TS 36.413 [9], the same E-RAB shall not be counted
repeatly but only one in case it appears more than one time in the same or
different messages triggering this measurement. The sum of all supported per
QCI measurements shall equal the total number of E-RABs attempted to release.
In case only a subset of per QCI measurements is supported, a sum subcounter
will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.RelAttNbr._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.2.2.4 Number of E-RABs successfully released
a) This measurement provides the number of E-RABs successfully released. The
measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level (QCI).
b) CC
c) On transmission by the eNodeB of an E-RAB RELEASE RESPONSE or UE CONTEXT
RELEASE COMPLETE or E-RAB Release Indication or a RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message to
MME; or E-RAB is released successfully by the eNB after receiving PATH SWITCH
REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE or PATH SWITCH REQUEST FAILED messageby which some or all
E-RABs in the corresponding PATH SWITCH REQUEST are to be released; or the
E-RAB is released successfully at the source EUtran cell by the eNB after
receiving _RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message from the UE,
indicating a successful intra-eNB handover (see TS 36.331 [8]) ; or the E-RAB
is released successfully by source eNB after receiving UE CONTEXT RELEASE from
another eNodeB ; or on receipt of a RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message from MME. E ach
corresponding E-RAB successfully released is added to the relevant measurement
per QCI, the possible QCIs are included in TS 36.413 [9], the same E-RAB shall
not be counted repeatly but only one in case it appears more than one time in
the same or different messages triggering this measurement. The sum of all
supported per QCI measurements shall equal the total number of E-RABs
successfully released. In case only a subset of per QCI measurements is
supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.RelSuccNbr._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.2.2.5 Number of E-RABs failed to release
a) This measurement provides the number of E-RABs failed to release. The
measurement is split into subcounters per failure cause.
b) CC
c) On transmission by the eNodeB of an E-RAB RELEASE RESPONSE message, each
E-RAB failed to release is added to the relevant measurement per cause, the
possible causes are included in TS 36.413 [9]. The sum of all supported per
cause measurements shall equal the total number of E-RABs failed to release.
In case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter
will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.RelFailNbr._Cause_ \ where _Cause_
identifies the cause resulting in the E-RAB release failure.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.2.2.6 Number of released active E-RABs
a) This measurement provides the number of released E-RABs that were active at
the time of release (i.e.when there was user data in the queue in any of the
directions). The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level
(QCI).
b) CC
c) On transmission by the eNodeB of an E-RAB RELEASE INDICATION message; or on
transmission by the eNB of an E-RAB RELEASE RESPONSE message for the E-RAB
release initiated by the MME with the exception of corresponding E-RAB RELEASE
COMMAND message with "Cause" equal to "Normal Release";, or on transmission by
the eNodeB of UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMPLETE for the UE context release initiated
by the eNB with the exception of the corresponding UE CONTEXT RELEASE REQUEST
message with cause "User inactivity", "CSG Subscription Expiry", or any
"cause" indicating a successful CS fallback (e.g., cause "CS Fallback
triggered", "UE Not Available for PS Service", or "Redirection towards 1xRTT")
or a succesful mobility activity (e.g., cause "Inter-RAT Redirection"); or on
transmission of by the eNodeB of UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMPLETE message for the
UE context release initiated by the MME with the exception of the
corresponding UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND message with \"Cause\" equal to
\"Normal Release\", "detach", "Handover Cancelled" or any "cause" indicating a
successful CS fallback (e.g., cause "Redirection towards 1xRTT") or a
succesful mobility activity (e.g., cause "Successful Handover", "Inter-RAT
Redirection" or "S1 Intra system Handover triggered") ; or on receipt by the
eNB of a PATH SWITCH REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE or PATH SWITCH REQUEST FAILED message
by which some or all E-RABs in the corresponding PATH SWITCH REQUEST need to
be released; or on transmission of a RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message to MME ; or on
receipt of a RESET ACKNOWLEDGE message from MME, if any of the UL or DL are
considered active (according to the definition used for \"Number of active UEs
in TS 36.314 when there is still data in the DL or UL buffer, each
corresponding E-RAB to release is added to the relevant measurement per QCI.
The possible QCIs are described in TS 36.413 [9]. The sum of all supported per
QCI measurements shall equal the total number of E-RABs attempted to release
with data in the DL or UL buffer. In case only a subset of per QCI
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.RelActNbr._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) This measurement is to support the Retainability KPI "E-RAB Retainability"
defined in [13]
### 4.2.3 E-RAB modification
#### 4.2.3.1 Number of E-RABs attempted to modify the QoS parameter
a) This measurement provides the number of E-RABs attempted to modify the QoS
parameter. The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level
(QCI).
b) CC
c) On receipt by the eNodeB of an E-RAB MODIFY REQUEST message, each E-RAB
attempted to modify the QoS parameter is added to the relevant measurement per
QCI, the possible QCIs are included in TS 36.413 [9]. The sum of all supported
per QCI measurements shall equal the total number of E-RABs attempted to
modify the QoS parameter. In case only a subset of per QCI measurements is
supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.ModQoSAttNbr._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the target E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.2.3.2 Number of E-RABs successfully modified the QoS parameter
a) This measurement provides the number of E-RABs successfully modified the
QoS parameter. The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level
(QCI).
b) CC
c) On transmission by the eNodeB of an E-RAB MODIFY RESPONSE message, each
E-RAB successfully modified the QoS parameter is added to the relevant
measurement per QCI, the possible QCIs are included in TS 36.413 [9]. The sum
of all supported per QCI measurements shall equal the total number of E-RABs
successfully modified the QoS parameter. In case only a subset of per QCI
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.ModQoSSuccNbr._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the target E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.2.3.3 Number of E-RABs failed to modify the QoS parameter
a) This measurement provides the number of E-RABs failed to be modified the
QoS parameter. The measurement is split into subcounters per failure cause.
b) CC
c) On transmission by the eNodeB of an E-RAB MODIFY RESPONSE message, each
E-RAB failed to modify the QoS parameter is added to the relevant measurement
per cause, the possible causes are included in TS 36.413 [9]. The sum of all
supported per cause measurements shall equal the total number of E-RABs failed
to modify the QoS parameter. In case only a subset of per cause measurements
is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.ModQoSFailNbr._Cause_ \ where
_Cause_ identifies the cause resulting in the E-RAB Modify failure.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.2.4 E-RAB activity
#### 4.2.4.1 In-session activity time for UE
a) This measurement provides the aggregated active session time for UEs in a
cell.
b) CC
c) Number of session seconds aggregated for UEs in a cell. A UE is said to be
"in session" if any E-RAB data on a Data Radio Bearer (UL or DL) has been
transferred during the last 100 ms.
d) Each measurement is an integer value.
e) ERAB.SessionTimeUE
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) This measurement is to support the Retainability KPI "E-RAB Retainability"
defined in [13].
#### 4.2.4.2 In-session activity time for E-RABs
a) This measurement provides the aggregated active session time for E-RABs in
a cell. The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level (QCI).
b) CC
c) Number of session seconds aggregated for E-RABs with a certain QCI. The
E-RABs for a UE is said to be "in session" if any E-RAB data on any Data Radio
Bearer (UL or DL) has been transferred during the last 100 ms for that QCI.
The possible QCIs are described in TS 36.413 [9]. The sum of all supported per
QCI measurements shall equal the total session seconds. In case only a subset
of per QCI measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.SessionTimeQCI._QCI_
    where *QCI* identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) This measurement is to support the Retainability KPI "E-RAB Retainability"
defined in [13].
## 4.3 Handover related measurements
### 4.3.1 Intra-RAT Handovers
#### 4.3.1.1 Intra-eNB Handover related measurements
##### 4.3.1.1.1 Attempted outgoing intra-eNB handovers per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outgoing intra-eNB
handovers per handover cause.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message to the UE
triggering the intra-eNB handover (see TS 36.331 [8]). The sum of all
supported per cause measurements shall equal the total number of outgoing
intra-eNB handover events. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is
supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix.
e) HO.IntraEnbOutAtt._Cause_ \ where _Cause_ identifies the cause for
handover.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.1.2 Successful outgoing intra-eNB handovers per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of successful outgoing intra-eNB
handovers per handover cause.
b) CC.
c) Receipt of a RRC message _RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ sent from
the UE to the target (=source) eNB, indicating a successful outgoing intra-eNB
handover with specific cause (see TS 36.331 [8]).\ The sum of all supported
per cause measurements shall equal the total number of outgoing intra-eNB
handover events. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported,
a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix
e) HO.IntraEnbOutSucc._Cause_ \ where _Cause_ identifies the cause for
handover.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.3.1.2 Inter-eNB Handover related measurements
##### 4.3.1.2.1 Attempted outgoing inter-eNB handover preparations
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outgoing inter-eNB
handover preparations.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the X2AP message HANDOVER REQUEST from the source eNB to
the target eNB (see TS 36.423[10]), indicating the attempt of an outgoing
inter-eNB handover preparation or on transmission of S1AP message HANDOVER
REQUIRED to the MME (see TS 36.413 [9]).
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.InterEnbOutPrepAtt
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.2.2 Attempted outgoing inter-eNB handover executions per handover
cause
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outgoing inter-eNB
handovers per handover cause.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the _RRC ConnectionReconfiguration_ message to UE
triggering the handover from the source eNB to the target eNB, indicating the
attempt of an outgoing inter-eNB handover (see TS 36.331 [8]).\ The sum of all
supported per cause measurements shall equal the total number of outgoing
inter-eNB handover events. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is
supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix.
e) HO.InterEnbOutAtt._Cause\ w_ here _Cause_ identifies the cause for handover
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.2.3 Successful outgoing inter-eNB handover executions per handover
cause
a) This measurement provides the number of successful outgoing inter-eNB
handovers per handover cause.
b) CC.
c) Receipt at the source eNB of UE CONTEXT RELEASE [10] over the X2 from the
target eNB following a successful handover preparation, or if handover is
performed via S1, receipt of UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND[9] at the source eNB
following a successful handover preparation. The sum of all supported per
cause measurements shall equal the total number of outgoing inter-eNB handover
events. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix.
e) HO.InterEnbOutSucc._Cause_ \ where _Cause_ identifies the cause for
handover.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.3.1.3 Handover measurements on neighbour cell basis
##### 4.3.1.3.1 Attempted outgoing handovers per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outgoing handovers per
handover cause and LTE target cell specific.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message to UE triggering
the handover from the source eNB to the target eNB, indicating the attempt of
an outgoing inter-eNB handover (see TS 36.331 [8]).\ The sum of all supported
per cause measurements shall equal the total number of outgoing inter-eNB
handover events. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported,
a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix.
e) HO.OutAttTarget._Cause\ w_ here _Cause_ identifies the cause for handover
f) EUtranRelation
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.3.2 Successful outgoing handovers per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of successful outgoing handovers per
handover cause and LTE target cell specific.
b) CC.
c) Receipt at the source eNB of UE CONTEXT RELEASE [10] over the X2 from the
target eNB following a successful handover preparation., - or if handover is
performed via S1, receipt of UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND[9] at the source eNB
following a successful handover preparation. The sum of all supported per
cause measurements shall equal the total number of outgoing intra-RAT handover
events. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix.
e) HO.OutSuccTarget._Cause_ \ where _Cause_ identifies the cause for handover.
f) EUtranRelation
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.3.1.4 Intra- / Inter-frequency Handover related measurements
##### 4.3.1.4.1 Attempted outgoing intra-frequency handovers
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outgoing intra-frequency
handovers.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message to UE triggering
the handover from the source eNB to the target eNB, indicating the attempt of
an outgoing intra-frequency handover (see TS 36.331 [8]).
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.IntraFreqOutAtt.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.4.2 Successful outgoing intra-frequency handovers
a) This measurement provides the number of successful outgoing intra-frequency
handovers.
b) CC.
c) Receipt at the source eNB of UE CONTEXT RELEASE [10] over the X2 from the
target eNB following a successful handover preparation, or if handover is
performed via S1, receipt of UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND[9] at the source eNB
following a successful handover preparation. Additional trigger points are
FFS.
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.IntraFreqOutSucc
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.4.3 Attempted outgoing inter-frequency handovers -- gap-assisted
measurement
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outgoing inter-frequency
handovers, when measurement gaps are used [12].
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message to UE triggering
the handover from the source eNB to the target eNB, indicating the attempt of
an outgoing inter-eNB handover (see TS 36.331 [8]).
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.InterFreqMeasGapOutAtt
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.4.4 Successful outgoing inter-frequency handovers -- gap-assisted
measurement
a) This measurement provides the number of successful outgoing inter-frequency
handovers, when measurement gaps are used [12].
b) CC.
c) Receipt at the source eNB of UE CONTEXT RELEASE [10] over the X2 from the
target eNB following a successful handover preparation, or if handover is
performed via S1, receipt of UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND[9] at the source eNB
following a successful handover preparation. Additional trigger points are
FFS.
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.InterFreqMeasGapOutSucc
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.4.5 Attempted outgoing inter-frequency handovers -- non gap-
assisted measurement
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outgoing inter-frequency
handovers, when measurement gaps are not used [12].
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message to UE triggering
the handover from the source eNB to the target eNB, indicating the attempt of
an outgoing inter-eNB handover (see TS 36.331 [8]).
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.InterFreqNoMeasGapOutAtt
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.4.6 Successful outgoing inter-frequency handovers -- non gap-
assisted measurement
a) This measurement provides the number of successful outgoing inter-frequency
handovers, when measurement gaps are not used [12].
b) CC.
c) Receipt at the source eNB of UE CONTEXT RELEASE [10] over the X2 from the
target eNB following a successful handover preparation, or if handover is
performed via S1, receipt of UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND[9]at the source eNB
following a successful handover preparation. Additional trigger points are
FFS.
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.InterFreqNoMeasGapOutSucc
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.3.1.5 Handover related measurements for DRX / non-DRX
##### 4.3.1.5.1 Attempted outgoing handovers with DRX
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outgoing handovers, when
DRX is used (for DRX see [12]).
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message to UE triggering
the handover from the source eNB to the target eNB, indicating the attempt of
an outgoing inter-eNB handover (see TS 36.331 [8]).
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.DrxOutAtt
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.5.2 Successful outgoing handovers with DRX
a) This measurement provides the number of successful outgoing handovers, when
DRX is used (for DRX see [12]).
b) CC.
c) Receipt at the source eNB of UE CONTEXT RELEASE [10] over the X2 from the
target eNB following a successful handover preparation, or if handover is
performed via S1, receipt of UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND[9] at the source eNB
following a successful handover preparation. Additional trigger points are
FFS.
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.DrxOutSucc
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.5.3 Attempted outgoing handovers non-DRX
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outgoing handovers, when
DRX is not used (for DRX see [12]).
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message to UE triggering
the handover from the source eNB to the target eNB, indicating the attempt of
an outgoing inter-eNB handover (see TS 36.331 [8]).
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.NoDrxOutAtt.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.1.5.4 Successful outgoing handovers non-DRX
a) This measurement provides the number of successful outgoing handovers, when
DRX is not used (for DRX see [12]).
b) CC.
c) Receipt at the source eNB of UE CONTEXT RELEASE [10] over the X2 from the
target eNB following a successful handover preparation., - or if handover is
performed via S1, receipt of UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND[9] at the source eNB
following a successful handover preparation. Additional triggerpoints are FFS.
d) A single integer value.
e) HO.NoDrxOutSucc
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.3.2 Inter-RAT Handovers
#### 4.3.2.1 Measurements related to inter-RAT Handovers -- target cell of
3GPP and non-3GPP network technology
##### 4.3.2.1.1 Attempted outgoing inter-RAT handovers per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outgoing inter-RAT
handovers per cause and target cell specific.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the _MobilityFromEUTRACommand_ message or the
_HandoverFromEUTRAPreparationRequest_ message from the serving eNB to the UE
indicating the attempt of an outgoing handover from EUTRAN to UTRAN or to
GERAN or to CDMA2000 with a specific cause (see TS 36.331 [8]). The sum of all
supported per cause measurements shall equal the total number of outgoing
inter-RAT handover events. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is
supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.\ All IRAT handovers to the
neighbouring cells in non-eUTRAN networks are measured.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
_.sum_ suffix.
e) HO.IartOutAtt._Cause_ \ _w_ here _Cause_ identifies the cause for handover
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD\ GSMRelation\ UTRANRelation\ CDMA2000Relation
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.3.2.1.2 Successful outgoing inter-RAT handovers per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of successful outgoing inter-RAT
handovers per cause target cell specific.
b) CC.
c) Receipt of a S1AP message UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND sent from the MME to
the source eNB, indicating a successful IRAT handover initiated due to a
specific cause (see TS 36.413 [9]).\ The sum of all supported per cause
measurements shall equal the total number of outgoing inter-RAT handover
events. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter will be provided first.\ All IRAT handovers to the neighbouring
cells in non-eUTRAN are measured.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
_.sum_ suffix.
e) HO.IartOutSucc._Cause\ w_ here _Cause_ indicating the cause for handover.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD\ GSMRelation\ UTRANRelation\ CDMA2000Relation
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
## 4.4 Cell level radio bearer QoS related measurements
### 4.4.1 Cell PDCP SDU bit-rate
#### 4.4.1.1 Average DL cell PDCP SDU bit-rate
a) This measurement provides the average cell bit-rate of PDCP SDUs on the
downlink. This represents the ingress rate of user plane traffic to the eNodeB
(via X2 or S1). The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level
(QCI).
b) CC
c) This measurement is obtained by accumulating the number of bits entering
the eNodeB, and then dividing the sum by the measurement period . The
measurement is performed at the PDCP SDU level. PDCP SDUs that are forwarded
over the X2/S1 to another eNodeB during handover shall be deducted from the
bit count -- if this results in a negative bit count the bit count shall be
set to zero. Separate counters are maintained for each QCI. The sum of all
supported per QCI measurements shall equal the total DL cell PDCP SDU bit-
rate. In case only a subset of per QCI measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value representing the bit-rate > measured
in kb/s. The number of measurements is equal to the > number of QCIs plus a
possible sum value identified by the _.sum_ > suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form DRB.PdcpSduBitrateDl._QCI_ \ > where
_QCI_ identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ > EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.4.1.2 Average UL cell PDCP SDU bit-rate
a) This measurement provides the average cell bit-rate of PDCP SDUs on the
uplink. This represents successful transmissions of user plane traffic;
control signalling and retransmissions are excluded from this measure. The
measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level (QCI).
b) CC
c) This measurement is obtained by accumulating the number of bits leaving the
eNodeB on the X2 or S1 interface, and then dividing the sum by the measurement
period. The measurement is performed at the PDCP SDU level. PDCP SDUs that
were not received over the air interface in the cell (but were forwarded from
another eNodeB during handover) are excluded from the count. Separate counters
are maintained for each QCI. The sum of all supported per QCI measurements
shall equal the total UL cell PDCP SDU bit-rate. In case only a subset of per
QCI measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value representing the bit-rate measured in
kb/s. The number of measurements is equal to the number of QCIs plus a
possible sum value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form DRB. PdcpSduBitrateUl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.4.1.3 Maximum DL cell PDCP SDU bit-rate
a) This measurement provides the maximum cell bit-rate of PDCP SDUs on the
downlink. This represents the maximum ingress rate of user plane traffic to
the eNodeB (via X2 or S1). This is a sum counter measured across all QCIs.
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at pre-defined intervals the DL
cell PDCP SDU bit-rate summed across all QCIs (see clause 4.4.1.1), and then
taking the arithmetic maximum of these samples.
d) A single integer value representing the maximum bit-rate measured in kb/s.
e) DRB.PdcpSduBitrateDlMax
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.4.1.4 Maximum UL cell PDCP SDU bit-rate
a) This measurement provides the maximum cell bit-rate of PDCP SDUs measured
on the uplink. This represents successful transmissions of user plane traffic;
control signalling and retransmissions are excluded from this measure. This is
a sum counter measured across all QCIs.
b) SI
c) The measurement is obtained by sampling at pre-defined intervals the UL
cell PDCP SDU bit-rate summed across all QCIs (see clause 4.4.1.2), and then
taking the arithmetic maximum of these samples.
d) A single integer value representing the maximum bit-rate measured in kb/s.
e) DRB.PdcpSduBitrateUlMax
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.4.1.5 Average DL cell control plane PDCP SDU bit-rate
a) This measurement provides the average cell bit-rate of control plane PDCP
SDUs on the downlink.
b) CC.
c) This measurement is obtained by accumulating the number of received control
plane PDCP SDU bits by the eNodeB, including the control plane PDCP SDU bits
received from S1 and RRC SAP, and then dividing the sum by the measurement
period.
d) An single integer value in kb/s.
e) SRB.PdcpSduBitrateDl
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
#### 4.4.1.6 Average UL cell control plane PDCP SDU bit-rate
a) This measurement provides the average cell bit-rate of control plane PDCP
SDUs on the uplink.\ This represents successful transmissions of control plane
traffic;
b) CC.
c) This measurement is obtained by accumulating the number of transmitted
uplink control plane PDCP SDU bits by the eNodeB, and then dividing the sum by
the measurement period.
d) An single integer value in kb/s.
e) SRB.PdcpSduBitrateUl
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) EPS
### 4.4.2 Active UEs
#### 4.4.2.1 Average number of active UEs on the DL
a) This measurement provides the average number of UEs that have DTCH data
queued on the downlink. The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB
QoS level (QCI).
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[11]. Separate counters are maintained for each QCI.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form DRB.UEActiveDl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.4.2.2 Average number of active UEs on the UL
a) This measurement provides the average number of UEs that have DTCH data
queued on the uplink. The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS
level (QCI).
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[11]. Separate counters are maintained for each QCI.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form DRB.UEActiveUl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.4.3 Packet Delay and Drop Rate
#### 4.4.3.1 Average DL PDCP SDU delay
a) This measurement provides the average (arithmetic mean) PDCP SDU delay on
the downlink. The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level
(QCI).
b) DER (n=1)
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[11].
d) Each measurement is an integer value representing the mean delay in ms. The
number of measurements is equal to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum
value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form DRB.PdcpSduDelayDl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.4.3.2 DL PDCP SDU drop rate
a) This measurement provides the fraction of IP packets (PDCP SDUs) which are
dropped on the downlink. Only user-plane traffic (DTCH) is considered. **A
dropped packet is one whose context is removed from the eNodeB without any
part of it having been transmitted on the air interface. Packets discarded
during handover are excluded from the count.** The measurement is split into
subcounters per E-RAB QoS level (QCI).
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[11]. Separate counters are maintained for each QCI. In case only a subset of
per QCI measurements is supported, a drop rate subcounter calculated across
all QCIs will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value representing the drop rate multiplied
by 1E6. The number of measurements is equal to the number of QCIs plus a
possible sum value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form DRB.PdcpSduDropRateDl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the target E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.4.4 Packet loss rate
#### 4.4.4.1 DL PDCP SDU air interface loss rate
a) This measurement provides the fraction of IP packets (PDCP SDUs) which are
lost (not successfully transmitted) on the downlink air interface. Only user-
plane traffic (DTCH) is considered. **A lost packet is one whose context is
removed from the eNodeB after an attempt has been made to transmit part or all
of the packet on the air interface but the whole packet has not been
successfully transmitted.** The measurement is split into subcounters per
E-RAB QoS level (QCI).
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[11]. Separate counters are maintained for each QCI. In case only a subset of
per QCI measurements is supported, a loss rate subcounter calculated across
all QCIs will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value representing the air interface loss
rate multiplied by 1E6. The number of measurements is equal to the number of
QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form DRB. PdcpSduAirLossRateDl._QCI_ \ where
_QCI_ identifies the target E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.4.4.2 UL PDCP SDU loss rate
a) This measurement provides the fraction of IP packets (PDCP SDUs) which are
lost (not successfully received) on the uplink. Only user-plane traffic (DTCH)
and only PDCP SDUs that have entered PDCP (and given a PDCP sequence number)
are considered. The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level
(QCI).
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[11]. Separate counters are maintained for each QCI. In case only a subset of
per QCI measurements is supported, a loss rate subcounter calculated across
all QCIs will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value representing the loss rate multiplied
by 1E6. The number of measurements is equal to the number of QCIs plus a
possible sum value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form DRB.PdcpSduLossRateUl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the target E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.4.5 IP Latency measurements
#### 4.4.5.1 IP Latency in DL, E-RAB level
a) This measurement provides IP Latency in DL on E-RAB level.
b) Gauge
c) This measurement is obtained by the following formula for E-RABs
    LatTime is obtained by accumulating the time T for E-RABs
    The sample of "T" is made for the new arrived IP data block (PDCP
    SDU) when there is no other prior data to be transmitted to the same
    UE in the eNodeB .
    LatSample is obtained by accumulating the number of Latency samples
    taken on the E-RAB level
    The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level (QCI).
d) Each measurement is an integer value representing the time in ms. The
number of measurements is equal to the number of QCIs.
e) The measurement name has the form DRB.IpLateDl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) This measurement is to support the Integrity KPI "E-UTRAN IP Latency"
defined in [13]
## 4.5 Radio resource utilization related measurements
### 4.5.1 DL PRB Usage for traffic
a) This measurement provides the usage (in percentage) of physical resource
blocks (PRBs) on the downlink for DTCH traffic. The measurement is split into
subcounters per E-RAB QoS level (QCI).
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[11]. Separate counters are maintained for each QCI. The sum of all supported
per QCI measurements shall equal the total PRB usage for DTCH. In case only a
subset of per QCI measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided
first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value from 0 to 100. The usage (in
percentage) of measurements is equal to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum
value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form RRU.PrbDl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_ identifies
the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.5.2 UL PRB Usage for traffic
a) This measurement provides the usage (in percentage) of physical resource
blocks (PRBs) on the uplink for DTCH traffic. The measurement is split into
subcounters per E-RAB QoS level (QCI).
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[11]. Separate counters are maintained for each QCI. The sum of all supported
per QCI measurements shall equal the total PRB usage for DTCH. In case only a
subset of per QCI measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided
first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value from 0 to 100. The number of
measurements is equal to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value
identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form RRU.PrbUl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_ identifies
the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.5.3 DL Total PRB Usage
a) This measurement provides the total usage (in percentage) of physical
resource blocks (PRBs) on the downlink for any purpose.
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[11].
d) A single integer value from 0 to 100.
e) RRU.PrbTotDl
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.5.4 UL Total PRB Usage
a) This measurement provides the total usage (in percentage) of physical
resource blocks (PRBs) on the uplink for any purpose.
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[11].
d) A single integer value from 0 to 100.
e) RRU.PrbTotUl
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.5.5 RACH Usage
a) This measurement provides the mean number of RACH preambles received in a
cell in one second. Separate counts are provided for dedicated preambles,
randomly chosen preambles in group A (aka "low range") and randomly chosen
preambles in group B (aka "high range").
b) CC
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 36.314 [11].
d) Each measurement is an integer value.
e) RRU.RachPreambleDedMean
    RRU.RachPreambleAMean
    RRU.RachPreambleBMean
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.5.6 Cell Unavailable Time
a) This measurement provides the length of time the cell has been unavailable
for each cause.
b) DER (n=1)
c) This measurement is obtained by accumulating the time periods when the cell
is unavailable per cause. The possible cause could be "manual intervention"
and "fault". The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the
total time periods of cell unavailability. In case only a subset of per cause
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value (in seconds). The number of
measurements is equal to the number of supported causes plus a possible sum
value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form RRU.CellUnavailableTime.cause.
    Where *cause* identifies the cause resuling in cell unavailable.
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) This measurement is to support KPI "E-UTRAN Cell Availability" > defined in
[13].
## 4.6 UE-associated logical S1-connection related measurements
### 4.6.1 UE-associated logical S1-connection establishment
#### 4.6.1.1 Attempted UE-associated logical S1-connection establishment from
eNB to MME
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted UE-associated logical
S1-connection establishments from eNB to MME.
b) CC
c) Transmission of an INITIAL UE MESSAGE by the eNodeB to the MME (See 36.413
[9]).
d) A single integer value.
e) S1SIG.ConnEstabAtt
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) This measurement is to support the Accessibility KPI "E-RAB Accessibility"
defined in [13].
#### 4.6.1.2 Succesful UE-associated logical S1-connection establishment from
eNB to MME
a) This measurement provides the number of successful UE-associated logical
S1-connection establishments from eNB to MME.
b) CC
c) On receipt by the eNB of first message from MME which succeeds INITIAL UE
MESSAGE message on an UE-associated logical S1-connection (See 36.413 [9]).
d) A single integer value.
e) S1SIG.ConnEstabSucc
f) EUtranCellFDD\ EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
i) This measurement is to support the Accessibility KPI "E-RAB Accessibility"
defined in [13]
## 4.7 Paging related measurements
### 4.7.1 Paging Performance
#### 4.7.1.1. Number of paging records discarded at the eNodeB.
a) This measurement provides the number of paging records that are discarded
at the eNB for paging occasions in each cell.
b) CC
c) Reception of a S1AP PAGING message from MME, see TS 36.413[9], with UE
identity which satisfies the following formulae from TS 36.304 [14].
X = (T div N)*(UE_ID mod N)
Y = floor(UE_ID/N) mod Ns
> AND the maximum number of paging records that can be queued for each paging
> occasion has been reached.
d) A single integer value.
e) PAG. DiscardedNbr
f) EUtranCellFDD
    EUtranCellTDD
g) Valid for packet switched traffic.
h) EPS
###### ## Annex A (informative): Use cases for performance measurements
defintion
This annex provides the concrete use cases for the E-UTRAN performance
measurements defined in clause 4.
# A.1 Monitor of call(/session) setup performance
Call(/session) setup is one of most important step to start delivering
services by the networks to users.
The success or failure of a call(/session) setup directly impacts the quality
level for delivering the service by the networks, and also the feeling of the
end user. So the success or failure of call(/session) setup needs be
monitored, this can be achieved by the calculation of call setup success rate
which gives a direct view to evaluate the call setup performance, and the
analysis of the specific reason causing the failure to find out the problem
and ascertain the solutions.
In addition, the time duration of the call(/session) setup need to be
monitored as it impacts the end user experience, and by comparison with
operator's benchmark requirements, the optimization may be required according
the performance.
And due to different priority and tolerance for different service type with
different OoS level in the networks, the monitor needs to be opened on each
service type and OoS level.
To complete the call(/session) setup procedure, E-UTRAN is mainly responsible
for the establishment of radio and S1 signaling connection and service bearer
by the RRC connection establishment (See 3GPP TS 36.331[8]), RRC connection
reestablishment after RRC connection dropped due to some reasons like radio
link failure or handover failure etc (See 3GPP TS 36.331[8]) E-RAB setup (See
3GPP TS 36.413[9]) and Initial UE Context Setup (See 3GPP TS 36.413[9])
procedure.
To support the monitor of success or failure of the call(/session) setup, the
performance measurements related to RRC connection establishment (See 3GPP TS
36.331[8]), RRC connection reestablishment (See 3GPP TS 36.331[8]) procedure,
and the performance measurements related to E-RAB setup (See 3GPP TS
36.413[9]) and Initial UE Context Setup (See 3GPP TS 36.413[9]) procedure for
each QoS level are required To support the monitor of time duration of setup
call(/session) setup, the performance measurements related to RRC connection
setup time and E-RAB setup time are required.
# A.2 Monitor of E-RAB release
E-RAB is the key and limited resource for E-UTRAN to deliver services. The
release of the E-RAB needs to be monitored as:
\- an abnormal release of the E-RAB will cause the call(/session) drop, which
directly impacts the QoS delivered by the networks, and the satisfaction
degree of the end user;
\- a successfully released E-RAB can be used to setup other requested
calls(/sessions). The E-RAB failed to be released will still occupy the
limited resource and hence it can not be used to admit other requested
calls(/sessions).
The specific reason causing the abnormal and failed release of the E-RAB is
required in order to find out the problem and ascertain the solutions. And due
to different priority and tolerance for different service type with different
OoS level in the networks, the monitor needs to be opened on each service type
with OoS level.
The E-RAB can be released by E-RAB Release procedure (See 3GPP TS 36.413[9]) ,
UE Context Release procedure (See 3GPP TS 36.413[9] and 3GPP TS 36.423[10])
procedure, Reset procedure(See 3GPP TS 36.413[9]) either initiated by eNodeB
or MME, Path Switch procedure (See 3GPP TS 36.413[9]) and Intra-eNB HO
procedure (See 3GPP TS 36.331[8]).
So performance measurements related to E-RAB Release (See 3GPP TS 36.413[9])
and UE Context Release (See 3GPP TS 36.413[9]) procedure for each service type
with QoS level are necessary to support the monitor of E-RAB release.
# A.3 Monitor of E-RAB level QoS modification
When an E-RAB has been established, the QoS it experiences in the E-UTRAN is
dependent upon the E-RAB level QoS parameters established for the bearer,
together with settings of other bearers established in the same cell. If the
QoS experienced by a bearer does not meet the expected performance, or the
resource need be reassigned for other bearers, the E-RAB level QoS may be
adjusted (typically with a knock-on effect onto other bearers).
So the modification of E-RAB level QoS parameters needs to be monitored, and
due to different priority and tolerance for different service type with
different OoS level in the networks, the monitor needs to be opened on each
target service type with OoS level.
The E-RAB level QoS can be modified by E-RAB Modify procedure (see 3GPP TS
36.413[9]), _in which the MME entity instructs the eNodeB to change one or
more QoS parameters on an E-RAB using the E-RAB MODIFY REQUEST message. The
eNodeB typically makes the adjustments as instructed (and adjusts the RRM
applied to the bearer appropriately) but in some circumstances the bearer
modification can fail. The eNodeB returns an E-RAB MODIFY RESPONSE message
that tells the MME whether the modification was successful or not -- for an
unsuccessful modification a cause value is included. It is important for OAM
to measure the failure rate of the bearer modifications, this information can
be used, for example, to make adjustments to OAM CM settings._
# A.4 Overview handover related Use Cases
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Use Case** | **PM KPI / elementary object** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Continuous Network Supervision: | - outgoing Intra RAT HO Success | | Supervision of overall handover | Rate (cell) *1\ | | performance. It is essential in | - outgoing Inter RAT HO Success | | network operations to follow the | Rate (cell) *1\ | | success rate of various | - outgoing Inter System HO | | handover. Low handover success | Success Rate (cell) *1 *3\ | | rate will impact user | - outgoing Intra Frequency HO | | experience, therefore it is | Success Rate (cell) *1\ | | important to define measurements | - outgoing Inter Frequency HO | | to follow handover success rate. | Success Rate (cell) *1\ | | | - outgoing Intra eNB HO Success | | | Rate (cell) *2\ | | | - outgoing Inter eNB HO Success | | | Rate (cell) *2 | | | | | | *1: It is expected that the HO | | | success rate may vary depending | | | | | | on the respective scenarios : | | | intra-RAT, inter-RAT, inter | | | System, | | | | | | intra frequency, inter frequency | | | | | | *2: it is expected that the HO | | | success rate may vary depending | | | | | | on the used external interfaces | | | | | | *3: inter system : LTE- non | | | 3GPP HO | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Troubleshooting: Detection of | - HO Success Rate | | bad handover relation. The first | (neighbourcell) | | use case provides the overall | | | performance of handover success | | | rate on E-UTRAN cell level, but | | | it is essential to get a | | | knowledge between which cell | | | pairs the handover success rate | | | is low. Therefore it is | | | important to know the success | | | rate on neighbor cell relation | | | basis. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Troubleshooting: Reason for | - outgoing HO Success Rate per | | started handover | HO reason (\ | | | neighbor cell) *4 | | To go for further analysis of | | | handover failures, it is | *4 different results expected | | essential to know what causes | e.g. emergency or normal HO | | the handovers. For this we need | | | to know the success rate of | | | handovers per HO reason. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Troubleshooting: Reason for | - outgoing HO Failure | | failed handover. To go for | Distribution Rate | | further detailed analysis for | (cell+neighbourcell)\ | | handover failure it is important | - HO Path Switching Failure | | to know what the reason for | Distribution Rate (cell or | | handover failure was, or whether | Interface)\ | | the handover was assisted by | - HO Failure Rate DRX / Non DRX | | measurement gaps or was with | (cell) *5\ | | DRX. | - Inter frequency HO Failure | | | Rate Meas gap assisted / not | | It is also important to know if | assisted\ | | measurement gaps and DRX are | (cell) *5 | | helping in handover procedure or | | | not. (i.e. what is the handover | *5: measurement only on cell | | failure rate if measurement gaps | basis and not per neighbourcell | | are switched on. Measurement | | | gaps and DRX can cause more load | due to amount of counters as | | and battery consumption to the | mentioned above. | | UE, therefore if these are not | | | causing any changes in handover | | | failure rate, operators may not | | | use them) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Network Planning: Traffic flow | - outgoing Intra RAT HO Success | | analysis\ | Rate (neighbour cell)\ | | or | - outgoing Inter RAT HO Success | | | Rate (cell)\ | | Network Planning: Handover | - outgoing Inter System HO | | traffic optimization | Success Rate (cell) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
# A.5 Monitor of cell level QoS and radio resource utilisation
In an E-UTRAN cell the quality of service achieved is directly influenced by a
number of factors, including:
  * Loading of users on the cell
  * Traffic loading and characteristics
  * UE locations and mobility
  * RRM policies
    * Scheduling
    * congestion control
    * admission control
    * layer 2 protocol configuration
  * Mapping of traffic to QCI
  * Setting of QoS parameters other than the QCI.
It is very important to be able to monitor the QoS to determine whether the
combined effect of these policies, algorithms and external factors is
satisfactory. Unsatisfactory QoS may rectified by adjusting policies and RRM
settings, for instance.
Cell bit-rate
A fundamental measure of QoS is the throughput (data rate) of the cell. The
total cell throughput measured across all radio bearers gives an indication of
the loading and activity in the cell. Adding a per QCI counter allows the
loading on the different QCIs to be measured. For example, if QCI 1 is used
exclusively for VoIP then the loading of conversational speech can be directly
determined. Finally, the maximum throughput can indicate to the operator
whether there is enough capacity in the network; for example, is the backhaul
sufficient. Separate counters should be configured on the downlink and uplink.
Complexity may be reduced by performing the counters at layer 3, giving the
ingress bit-rate to the eNB on the downlink and the egress bit-rate from the
eNB on the uplink.
Cell throughput includes both User Plane data and Control Plane data. To
support the User Plane data, necessary Control Plane data also need to be
transmitted. This Control Plane data although required, will not be perceived
(felt) by the User. The total cell throughput helps to evaluate the usage of
bandwidth and radio resource.
Operators ideally want to see the Control Plane data as small as possible when
compared to the User Plane data without compromising on the service.
Hence it is important to monitor the total cell throughput as well as how much
is occupied by Control Plane Data.
Number of actives UEs
It is also of interest to determine how many users are enjoying the throughput
numbers determined for each QCI. Therefore, we may count the number of users
that are active for each QCI -- here active users have data queued pending
transmission. A simple division of the throughput (data rate) of a QCI by the
number of active users on the QCI indicates the throughput per user on the
QCI. For example, taking QCI 1 this metric could indicate the typical codec
rate being employed in the cell. Alternatively, for QCI 9 supporting low
priority TCP-based traffic it can indicate the typical bandwidth pipe size for
a user when he has data to send / receive.
DL packet delay
Latency is of prime concern for some services, particularly conversational
services like speech and instant messaging. A counter is added to measure the
mean delay for IP packets incurred within the eNodeB. Separate counters are
provided per QCI which are particularly useful when the QCI is used by very
few services and the packet sizes vary little. It is only practical to measure
packet delays on the downlink.
DL packet drop rate
When a cell is heavily loaded congestion can take place. When congestion is
not severe the impact is typically the incurrence of additional delay for non-
GBR radio bearers. However, when congestion is severe the eNodeB may be forced
to discard packets. It is important for the operator to have visibility of
packet discard so that corrective action can be instigated (for example, by
adjusting admission control settings in the network). It is only practical to
measure packet discards on the downlink. Packet discards on handover should
not be included in the count.
PRB Usage
The resource utilisation, measured in terms of physical resource blocks
(PRBs), is a useful measure of whether a cell is lightly loaded or not.
Loading is a key input to network capacity planning and load balancing.
Furthermore, when resource utilisation per QCI is reported the distribution of
resources between different services can be estimated.
Downlink Air interface packet loss rate
The downlink air interface packet loss can be directly compared with the PELR
value of a QCI to see if the packet loss (over the air interface) aspect of
quality of service is being met within the cell (see [12] for more details on
PELR). On the downlink this measurement can be added to the congestion losses
(see DL packet drop rate) to determine the total packet loss rate at the
eNodeB. Consequently, the downlink useful bit-rate can be estimated by scaling
the measurement of the downlink PDCP ingress bit-rate by (1 -- DL packet drop
rate) (1 -- air interface packet loss rate).
Uplink packet loss rate
The uplink air interface packet loss rate (per QCI) can be compared directly
with the PELR defined for that QCI. An estimate of the uplink air interface
packet loss may be provided by the "Uplink PDCP SDU loss rate". This uplink
measurement is based on PDCP sequence numbers and cannot precisely measure the
air interface losses. Any packets discarded by the UE within the protocol
stack (i.e. at layer 2) are also counted since they will have been given a
PDCP sequence number. Discards at layer 3 are not counted.
RACH Usage
The RACH plays a vital role in the following procedures:
> \- Initial access from RRC_IDLE;
>
> \- Initial access after radio link failure;
>
> \- Handover requiring random access procedure;
>
> \- DL data arrival during RRC_CONNECTED requiring random access procedure;
>
> \- UL data arrival during RRC_CONNECTED requiring random access procedure;
Furthermore, the random access procedure takes two distinct forms:
> \- Contention based using a randomly selected preamble (applicable to all
> five events);
>
> \- Non-contention based using a dedicated preamble (applicable to only
> handover and DL data arrival).
In the use-case of RACH configuration optimization, received Random Access
Preambles are signaled across an OAM interface.
Monitoring of the preamble usage in a cell allows the operator to determine if
the resources allocated to the RACH by the eNodeB are appropriate for the
number of random access attempts. If the resources are underutilised then the
operator may reconfigure the eNodeB (via CM) to allocate less resource to RACH
thereby freeing up resource for other uplink transmissions. Alternatively, if
the resources are heavily utilised then this is indicative of RACH congestion
leading to increased latency for the procedures listed above.
The eNodeB can partition the RACH resource between dedicated preambles,
randomly selected preambles in group A and randomly selected preambles in
group B. This partitioning can be evaluated when usage measurements are made
on each set separately.
# A.6 Monitor of the number of connected users
The number of the connected users in each cell is valuable information for
operators to know how many uses are connecting to E-UTRAN per cell basis. This
kind of information can help operator to tune the admission control parameters
for the cell and to do load balancing between cells to ensure that the target
percentage or number the of users admitted achieve the target QoS.
# A.7 Monitoring of interference situation
In the LTE radio technology interference has to be coordinated on the basis
uplink and downlink i.e. in a coordinated usage of the UL resources (Physical
Resource Blocks, PRBs) and DL Transmitted Power, which lead to improve SIR and
corresponding throughput. These are achieved by means of mechanisms employing
channel quality indicators in support of scheduling/radio resource allocation
functions.
These RRM functions in the eNB require the setting of frequency / power
restrictions and preferences for the resource usage in the different cells.
Setting and updating these parameters is the task of a network optimisation
(done by operator or automatically by SON).
Use cases for the related interference measurements are e.g. optimisation of
ICIC related RRM functionality, the detection of long distance interferer and
the interference due to spurious emissions of neighbour cells. The later case
is assumed only in high load scenarios or unsufficent ICIC functionality due
to the the fact that ICIC functionality would minimise interference
autonomously if sufficient bandwidth is available.
The necessary measurements to identify and anylse the interference situation
as input for optimisation tasks has to be defined.
# A.8 Monitor of ARQ and HARQ performance
Reliable Packet Delivery is one of the important Performance factor for a
better User experience. HARQ retransmissions at the MAC layer ensure reliable
packet delivery
In addition, RLC can be configured to operate in acknowledged mode for those
applications that need very low packet drops and can tolerate a slightly
higher delay from RLC retransmissions.
If a MAC PDU is not delivered, HARQ takes care of retransmitting (upto a
maximum configurable number). If all the retransmissions fail at MAC layer,
and if RLC is configured to operate in acknowledged mode, RLC's ARQ mechanism
will take care of any residual packet errors.
It is important to\ a) maintain the block error rate or packet error rate
within tolerable limits
b) ensure that HARQ retransmissions take care of most packet errors, instead
of relying on RLC layer retransmissions (which would increase the delay).
So, it is important to monitor the performance of these schemes.\ ARQ
Performance if viewed at QCI level can help in monitoring the distribution for
each of the services.
HARQ Performance if viewed at MCS (Modulation Coded Scheme) can help in
monitoring the MCS Performance also.
# A.9 Monitor of RF performance
RF Performance reflects the cell loading levels and abnormal conditions.
In the Downlink, Power Resources are managed by the EUTRAN Cell(RAN).\ More
Power Resources may help in increasing the Capacity of the System. Hence,
there the power resources could be effectively used to optimize the Capacity
of the System.
Hence there is a need to keep monitoring the Power Resource Utilization in %
and also in absolute terms.
# A.10 Monitor of paging performance
In EUTRAN, Paging is under the control of the MME. When the MME wants to page
a UE it has to page it in all cells that belong to the TA(s) to which the UE
is registered.
The paging load per cell is an important measure for the operator as it allows
the operator to properly dimension the resources for paging in the E-UTRAN
Cell .
At an E-UTRAN Cell it makes sense to measure the number of discarded paging
messages if this is due to some problem in the eNodeB, such as paging occasion
overflow. In that scenario the periodicity of paging occasions can be
reconfigured in order to ensure that all paging messages are transmitted by
the eNodeB in the first available paging occasion, thereby avoiding paging
delays and extended call setup delay.
Operators need to know when such an event occurs, in order to identify if the
problem is at the E-UTRAN cell level or not.
#