# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
**TS 32.421: \"Subscriber and equipment trace: Trace concepts and
requirements\";**
**TS 32.422: \"Subscriber and equipment trace: Trace control and configuration
management\";**
TS 32.423: \"Subscriber and equipment trace: Trace data definition and
management\";
Additionally, there is a GSM only Subscriber and Equipment Trace
specification: 3GPP TS 52.008 [5].
Subscriber and Equipment Trace provide very detailed information at call level
on one or more specific mobile(s). This data is an additional source of
information to Performance Measurements and allows going further in monitoring
and optimisation operations.
Contrary to Performance Measurements, which are a permanent source of
information, Trace is activated on user demand for a limited period of time
for specific analysis purposes.
Trace plays a major role in activities such as determination of the root cause
of a malfunctioning mobile, advanced troubleshooting, optimisation of resource
usage and quality, RF coverage control and capacity improvement, dropped call
analysis, Core Network, UTRAN, EPC and E-UTRAN UMTS procedure validation.
The capability to log data on any interface at call level for a specific user
(e.g. IMSI) or mobile type (e.g. IMEI or IMEISV) allows getting information
which cannot be deduced from Performance Measurements such as perception of
end-user QoS during his call (e.g. requested QoS vs. provided QoS),
correlation between protocol messages and RF measurements, or interoperability
with specific mobile vendors.
Moreover, Performance Measurements provide values aggregated on an observation
period, Subscriber and Equipment Trace give instantaneous values for a
specific event (e.g., call, location update, etc.).
If Performance Measurements are mandatory for daily operations, future network
planning and primary trouble shooting, Subscriber and Equipment Trace is the
easy way to go deeper into investigation and network optimisation.
In order to produce this data, Subscriber and Equipment Trace are carried out
in the NEs, which comprise the network. The data can then be transferred to an
external system (e.g. an Operations System (OS) in TMN terminology, for
further evaluation).
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the mechanisms used for the control and
configuration of the Trace functionality at the EMs, NEs and UEs. It covers
the triggering events for starting/stopping of subscriber/UE activity traced
over 3GPP standardized signalling interfaces, the types of trace mechanisms,
configuration of a trace, level of detail available in the trace data, the
generation of Trace results in the Network Elements (NEs) and User Equipment
(UE) and the transfer of these results to one or more EM(s) and/or Network
Manager(s) (NM(s)).
The mechanisms for Trace activation/deactivation are detailed in clause 4;
clause 5 details the various Trace control and configuration parameters and
the triggering events that can be set in a network. Trace concepts and
requirements are covered in 3GPP TS 32.421 [2] while Trace data definition and
management is covered in 3GPP TS 32.423 [3].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions, which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
NOTE: Overall management principles are defined in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.421: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace: Trace concepts and requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.423: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace: Trace data definition and management\".
[4] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[5] 3GPP TS 52.008: \"Telecommunication management; GSM subscriber and
equipment trace\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) Service description;
Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.205: \"Bearer-independent circuit-switched core network; Stage
2\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.108: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification core
network protocols; Stage 2 (structured procedures)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.246: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Architecture and functional description\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.232: \"Media Gateway Controller (MGC) - Media Gateway (MGW);
interface; Stage 3\".
[11] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[12] 3GPP TS 29.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); GPRS Tunnelling
Protocol (GTP) across the Gn and Gp interface\".
[13] 3GPP TS 25.413 : \"UTRAN Iu interface RANAP signalling\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.218: \"IP Multimedia (IM) session handling; IM call model;
Stage 2\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[16] 3GPP TS 29.228: \"IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem Cx and Dx Interfaces;
Signalling flows and message contents\".
[17] 3GPP TS 29.328: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Sh interface; Signalling
flows and message contents\".
[18] Void.
[19] Void.
[20] Void.
[21] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[22] 3GPP TS 23.402: \"Architecture enhancements for non-3GPP accesses\".
[23] 3GPP TS 36.401: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); Architecture description\".
[24] 3GPP TS 32.442: \"Telecommunication management; Trace management;
Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS)\".
[25] 3GPP TS 29.273: \"Evolved Packet System (EPS);3GPP EPS AAA interfaces\".
[26] 3GPP TS 29.272: \"Evolved Packet System (EPS); Mobility Management Entity
(MME) and Serving GPRS Support Node (SGSN) related interfaces based on
Diameter protocol\".
[27] 3GPP TS 32.615: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup Language
(XML) definitions\".
[28] 3GPP TS 32.342: \"Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[29] 3GPP TS 29.212: \" **Policy and Charging Control over Gx reference
point** \".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [4], 3GPP TS 32.101 [1] and the following apply:
AS Application Server
BGCF Breakout Gateway Control Function
CSCF Call Session Control Function
I-CSCF Interrogating-CSCF
IM CN SS IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem
MRFC Multimedia Resource Function Controller
P-CSCF Proxy - CSCF
S-CSCF Serving-CSCF
TAU Tracking Area Update
# 4 Trace activation and deactivation
## 4.1 Trace session activation / deactivation
### 4.1.1 Management activation
#### 4.1.1.1 General
In Management activation, the Trace Control and Configuration parameters are
sent directly to the concerned NE (by its EM). This NE shall not propagate the
received data to any other NE\'s - whether or not it is involved in the actual
recording of the call.
Once the parameters have been provided, the NE looks for the IMSI or IMEI
(IMEISV) passing through it. If it does not have them, these shall be provided
to the NE (that performs the trace recording) as part of traffic signalling by
the CN.
The following figure represents the management based trace functionality
within a PLMN. The figure represents a typical PLMN network. A dotted arrow
with \"Trace Parameter Configuration\" represents the availability of the
management based trace functionality at the EM for that domain.
NOTE: There is no propagation of trace parameters in management based trace
activation.
Figure 4.1.1.1.1: Overview of management activation for an UMTS system
If the NE failed to activate the Trace Session, a Trace failure notification
shall be sent to the TCE, and the Trace failure notification has the the same
parameters as the notification notifyTraceRecordingSessionFailure defined in
3GPP TS 32.442[24], the Trace failure notification file XML schema is defined
in Annex A.
#### 4.1.1.2 UTRAN activation mechanisms
When an RNC receives Trace Session activation from the EM it shall start a
Trace Session. The trace control and configuration parameters of the Trace
Session are received in Trace Session activation from the EM. The RNC shall
not forward these trace control and configuration parameters to other nodes.
The received trace control and configuration parameters shall be saved and
used to determine when and how to start a Trace Recording Session. (Starting a
Trace Recording Session is described in subclause 4.2.2.1). A Trace Session
may be requested for a limited geographical area.
Since a RNC has visibility of an IMSI, it can start an IMSI Trace all by
itself when a Trace session is requested for an IMSI or a list of IMSI's.
However, a RNC does not have visibility of the IMEI(SV). Hence, when a Trace
session is requested for an IMEI(SV) or a list of IMEI(SV), the RNC shall send
the requested IMEI(SV) / list of IMEI(SV)s in an \'Uplink Information Exchange
Request\' message to the interacting MSC Server(s) and SGSN(s). The MSC
Servers and SGSNs shall store the requested IMEI(SV)s per RNC. For each
subscriber/UE activity the MSC Servers and SGSNs shall request IMEI(SV), if it
is not already provided. For each subscriber/UE activity the MSC server/SGSN
shall check whether a trace request is active in an RNC for the IMEI(SV). If a
match is found, the MSC Server/SGSN shall inform the RNC about the IMEI(SV) in
CN Invoke Trace, so that the RNC can trace the control signalling according to
the trace control and configuration parameters that are received from its EM.
If an Inter-MSC SRNS Relocation or an Inter-SGSN SRNS relocation occurs, the
anchor MSC Server or source SGSN shall transfer the IMSI and IMEI(SV) for the
subscriber/UE activity to the non anchor MSC Server or target SGSN. The non
anchor MSC Server/target SGSN shall check whether it has received a trace
request from the target RNC for the transferred IMEI(SV). If a match is found
on the IMEI(SV) in the non anchor MSC Server/target SGSN, the MSC Server/SGSN
shall inform the RNC about the IMEI(SV) in the CN Invoke Trace. The IMSI shall
be transferred from the non anchor MSC Server/target SGSN to the target RNC in
Relocation Request. The RNC can then trace the subscriber/UE activity
according to the trace control and configuration parameters that are received
from its EM.
#### 4.1.1.3 PS Domain activation mechanisms
When a SGSN, GGSN or BM-SC receives Trace Session activation from the EM it
shall start a Trace Session. The trace control and configuration parameters of
the Trace Session are received in the Trace Session activation from the EM.
The SGSN/GGSN/BM-SC shall not forward these trace control and configuration
parameters to other nodes. The received trace control and configuration
parameters shall be saved and used to determine when and how to start a Trace
Recording Session. (Starting a Trace Recording Session is described in
subclause 4.2.2.2)
#### 4.1.1.4 CS Domain activation mechanisms
When a MSC Server receives Trace Session activation from the EM it shall start
a Trace Session. The trace control and configuration parameters of the Trace
Session are received in the Trace Session activation from the EM. The MSC
Server shall not forward these trace control and configuration parameters to
other nodes. The received trace control and configuration parameters shall be
saved and used to determine when and how to start a Trace Recording Session.
(Starting a Trace Recording Session is described in subclause 4.2.2.3)
#### 4.1.1.5 IP Multimedia Subsystem activation mechanisms
When a S-CSCF/P-CSCF receives Trace Session activation from EM, the
S-CSCF/P-CSCF shall start a Trace Session. The Trace control and configuration
parameters of the Trace Session, received from EM in the Trace Session
activation, shall be saved. The Trace control and configuration parameters
define when the S-CSCF and P-CSCF shall start and stop a Trace Recording
Session. For detailed information on starting and stopping Trace Recording
Session in IMS see sub clauses 4.2.2.4 and 4.2.4.4.
The following figure illustrates the Trace Session activation in S-CSCF and in
P-CSCF in case of Management based activation.
Figure 4.1.1.5.1: Trace Session activation in IMS
#### 4.1.1.6 E-UTRAN activation mechanisms
In E-UTRAN the Management Based Trace Activation can be fulfilled with the
E-UTRAN Cell Traffic trace functionality. In this case the Trace Session
Activation is done to one or a list E-UTRAN cells within one eNodeB, where
Trace Session is activated.
When eNodeB receives the Trace Session Activation message from the EM for a
given or a list of E-UTRAN cell(s) the eNodeB shall start a Trace Session for
the given or list of E-UTRAN cell(s).
#### 4.1.1.7 EPC Domain activation mechanisms
When a MME or SGW receives Trace Session activation from the EM it shall start
a Trace Session. The trace control and configuration parameters of the Trace
Session are received in the Trace Session activation from the EM. The MME/SGW
shall not forward these trace control and configuration parameters to other
nodes. The received trace control and configuration parameters shall be saved
and used to determine when and how to start a Trace Recording Session.
(Starting a Trace Recording Session is described in subclause 4.2.2.6)
### 4.1.2 Signalling activation
#### 4.1.2.1 General
In Signalling activation, the Trace Activation shall be carried out from the
Core Network EM only [EM (PS), EM (CS), EM (HSS) and EM(EPC) are generally
considered to be in the Core Network. A Core Network EM can be any of these or
their combinations].
In case of home subscriber trace (i.e. in the HPLMN) the Trace Session
activation shall go to the HSS / MSC Server / SGSN / MME. Instances where the
home subscriber is roaming in a VPLMN, the HSS may initiate a trace in that
VPLMN. The VPLMN may reject such requests.
In case of foreign subscriber trace (i.e. the HPLMN operator wishes to trace
foreign subscribers roaming in his PLMN) the Trace Session activation shall go
the MSC Server/VLR, SGSN / MME. Depending on the Trace Control and
Configuration parameters received, the Core Network shall propagate the
activation to selected NE\'s in the entire network \-- RAN and Core Network.
If the NE failed to activate the Trace Session, a Trace failure notification
shall be sent to the TCE, and the Trace failure notification has the the same
parameters as the notification notifyTraceRecordingSessionFailure defined in
3GPP TS 32.442 [24], the Trace failure notification file XML schema is defined
in Annex A.
#### 4.1.2.2 Intra PLMN signalling activation
The following figure represents the signalling based trace functionality
within a PLMN. The figure represents a typical PLMN network. A dotted arrow
with \"Trace Parameter Configuration\" represents the availability of the
trace functionality at the EM for that domain. E.g. you cannot invoke a
Signalling Trace at the EM (UTRAN) because there is no such arrow shown in the
figure. You can however do it from the EM (CS Domain). Similarly \"Trace
Parameter Propagation\" is allowed only for the interfaces indicated in the
figure. E.g. there is no parameter propagation over Iu-B.
NOTE: For tracing on the basis of IMEI(SV), the signalling based activation
can be only initiated from the MSC/VLR or SGSN.
Figure 4.1.2.2.1: Overview of Intra-PLMN Signalling Activation
#### 4.1.2.3 Inter PLMN Signalling Activation
The following figure represents the signalling based trace functionality
between PLMNs. This is particularly useful when a roaming subscriber needs to
be traced in a network. The figure represents a typical PLMN network and its
connections with another PLMN's HSS. A dotted arrow with \"Trace Parameter
Configuration\" represents the availability of the trace functionality at the
EM for that domain. E.g. you cannot invoke a Signalling Trace at the EM
(UTRAN) because there is no such arrow shown in the figure. You can however do
it from the EM (CS Domain). Similarly \"Trace Parameter Propagation\" is
allowed only for the interfaces indicated in the figure. E.g. there is no
parameter propagation over Iu-B.
NOTE: There is no intention to allow tracing of a home subscriber roaming in a
foreign network i.e. the trace function is limited to a single PLMN.
Figure 4.1.2.3.1: Overview of Inter-PLMN Signalling Activation
#### 4.1.2.4 UTRAN activation mechanisms
See subclause 4.2.3.1.
#### 4.1.2.5 PS Domain activation mechanisms
The following figure shows the Trace Session activation in the PS domain. The
figure is an example of tracing PDP context.
Figure 4.1.2.5.1: Trace session activation in PS domain for PDP Context
When a UE registers with the network by sending an ATTACH_REQUEST message to
the SGSN, it updates the location information in the HSS by sending the
UPDATE_GPRS_LOCATION message to the HSS. The HSS checks if the UE is being
traced. If it is being traced, the HSS shall propagate the trace control and
configuration parameters to the SGSN by sending a MAP-ACTIVATE_TRACE_MODE -
see 3GPP TS 29.002 [11] message to the SGSN. When an inter-SGSN routing area
update occurs, HSS shall send the MAP-ACTIVATE_TRACE_MODE message to the new
SGSN.
When SGSN receives the MAP-ACTIVATE_TRACE_MODE message it shall store the
trace control and configuration parameters and shall start a Trace Session.
When any of the triggering events defined in the trace control and
configuration parameters occur, (e.g. PS session is started (i.e. a ACTIVATE
PDP CONTEXT REQUEST message is received from the UE)) the SGSN shall propagate
the trace control and configuration parameters to the GGSN (by sending a GTP-
CREATE_PDP_CONTEXT_REQUEST message) and to the radio network (by sending a
RANAP-CN_INVOKE_TRACE message), if it is defined in the trace control and
configuration parameters (NE types to trace). The Trace Session activation to
UTRAN is described in clauses 4.1.2.4.
When HSS sends the MAP-ACTIVATE_TRACE_MODE message to SGSN it shall include
the following parameters to the message:
  * IMSI (M).
  * Trace reference (M).
  * Triggering events for SGSN (M) and GGSN (M).
  * Trace Depth (M).
  * List of NE types to trace (M).
  * List of interfaces for SGSN (O), GGSN (O) and/or RNC (O).
When the SGSN sends the GTP-CREATE_PDP_CONTEXT_REQUEST message to GGSN it
shall include the following parameters to the message:
  * IMSI or IMEI (SV) (M).
  * Trace reference (M).
  * Trace Recording Session Reference (M).
  * Triggering events for GGSN (M).
  * Trace Depth (M).
  * List of interfaces for GGSN (O).
The following figure is an example of tracing for MBMS Context.
Figure 4.1.2.5.2: Trace session activation in PS domain for MBMSContext
When HSS receives a Trace Session activation from its EMS, it shall store the
received trace control and configuration parameters. At this point a Trace
Session shall be started in the HSS.
When a UE registers with the network by sending an ATTACH_REQUEST message to
the SGSN, it updates the location information in the HSS by sending the
UPDATE_GPRS_LOCATION message to the HSS. The HSS checks if the UE is being
traced. If it is being traced, the HSS shall propagate the trace control and
configuration parameters to the SGSN by sending a MAP-ACTIVATE_TRACE_MODE
message to the SGSN. When an inter-SGSN routing area update occurs, HSS shall
send the MAP-ACTIVATE_TRACE_MODE message to the new SGSN.
When SGSN receives the MAP-ACTIVATE_TRACE_MODE message it shall store the
trace control and configuration parameters and shall start a Trace Session.
When any of the triggering events defined in the trace control and
configuration parameters occur, (i.e. an ACTIVATE MBMS CONTEXT REQUEST message
is sent to the UE)) the SGSN shall propagate the trace control and
configuration parameters to the GGSN (by sending a GTP-
CREATE_MBMS_CONTEXT_REQUEST message) and to the radio network (by sending a
RANAP-CN_INVOKE_TRACE message), if it is defined in the trace control and
configuration parameters (NE types to trace). The Trace Session activation to
UTRAN is described in clauses 4.1.2.4.
The GGSN shall propagate the trace control and configuration parameters to the
BM-SC (by sending a Diameter Gmb AAR message) if the BM-SC is defined in the
trace control and configuration parameters (NE types to trace).
When HSS sends the MAP-ACTIVATE_TRACE_MODE message to SGSN it shall include
the following parameters in the message:
  * IMSI (M).
  * Trace reference (M).
  * Triggering events for SGSN (M), GGSN (M) and BM-SC (M).
  * Trace Depth (M).
  * List of NE types to trace (M).
  * List of interfaces for SGSN (O), GGSN (O), BM-SC (O) and/or RNC (O).
When the SGSN sends the GTP-CREATE_MBMS_CONTEXT_REQUEST message to GGSN it
shall include the following parameters in the message:
  * IMSI or IMEI (SV) (M).
  * Trace reference (M).
  * Trace Recording Session Reference (M).
  * Triggering events for GGSN (M) and BM-SC (M).
  * Trace Depth (M).
  * List of interfaces for GGSN (O) and BM-SC (O).
When the GGSN sends the Diameter Gmb AAR message to the BM-SC it shall include
the following parameters in the message:
  * IMSI or IMEI (SV) (M).
  * Trace reference (M).
  * Trace Recording Session Reference (M).
  * Triggering events for BM-SC (M).
  * Trace Depth (M).
  * List of interfaces for BM-SC (O).
#### 4.1.2.6 CS Domain activation mechanisms
The following figure shows the Trace Session activation in the CS domain. The
figure is an example of tracing Mobile Originating Call.
Figure 4.1.2.6.1: Trace Session Activation in CS domain
When HSS receives Trace Session activation from the EMS it should store the
trace control and configuration parameters associated to the Trace Session.
If the UE registers to the network, by sending a LOCATION UPDATING REQUEST
message to the MSC/VLR, the MSC Server/VLR updates the location information in
the HSS by sending the MAP-UPDATE_LOCATION message to the HSS. After receiving
the UPDATE_LOCATION message HSS shall propagate the trace control and
configuration parameters by sending a MAP-ACTIVATE_TRACE_MODE message to the
MSC Server/VLR.
When the MSC Server/VLR receives the MAP-ACTIVATE_TRACE_MODE message from the
HSS, it shall store the trace control and configuration parameters.
When any of the triggering event, defined in the trace control and
configuration parameters, occurs (e.g. in case of Mobile Originating Call is
started (i.e. the MSC Server receives the CM_SERVICE_REQUEST message with
service type set to originating call establishment)) the MSC Server should
propagate the trace control and configuration parameters to the MGW (by
sending an ADD command with a trace package - see 3GPP TS 29.232 [10]) and to
the radio network if it is defined in the trace control and configuration
parameters (NE types to trace). Trace Session activation for UTRAN is
described in clauses 4.1.2.4. In case of inter-MSC Server handover the MSC
Server-A should propagate the trace control and configuration parameters to
the MSC Server-B.
When HSS sends the MAP-ACTIVATE_TRACE_MODE message to MSC Server it shall
include the following parameters to the message:
  * IMSI (M).
  * Trace reference (M).
  * Triggering events for MSC Server (M) and MGW (M) .
  * Trace Depth (M).
  * List of NE types to trace (M).
  * List of interfaces for MSC Server (O), MGW (O) and/or RNC (O).
When the MSC Server sends the ADD command with trace package to MGW it shall
include the following parameters to the message:
  * IMSI or IMEI (SV) (M).
  * Trace reference (M).
  * Trace Recording Session Reference (M).
  * Triggering events for MGW (M).
  * Trace Depth (M).
  * List of interfaces for MGW (O).
#### 4.1.2.7 Void
#### 4.1.2.8 Tracing roaming subscribers
If a HPLMN operator activates a Trace Session for a home subscriber, while it
(MS) is roaming in a VPLMN, it (HSS) may restrict the propagation of the Trace
Session activation message to a MSC Server/VLR or to a SGSN located in the
VPLMN.
Also, a MSC Server/VLR or a SGSN located in a VPLMN may accept any Trace
Session activation message(s) coming from an HSS located in another PLMN.
However, there shall be a capability to reject activations from another PLMN.
#### 4.1.2.9 Void
##### 4.1.2.9.1 Void
##### 4.1.2.9.2 Void
##### 4.1.2.9.3 Void
##### 4.1.2.9.4 Void
#### 4.1.2.10 EPC activation mechanism
Figure 4.1.2.10.1 summarizes the Trace Session activation procedure in EPC:
Figure 4.1.2.10.1: Trace Session activation procedure in EPC with GTP based S5
interface:
> The Trace Session activation in MME can come for a home subscriber trace
> from HSS via the S6a interface or for a foreign subscriber from the EM of
> MME.
>
> When the UE makes an attach request to the MME, it updates the location
> information in the HSS. The HSS checks if the UE is being traced. If it is
> being traced, the HSS shall propagate the trace control and configuration
> data to the MME by including the trace control and configuration parameters
> into the S6a-Insert subscriber data message or the S6a-Update Location
> Answer message. If the traced UE has already attached before receiving the
> Trace Session Activation from the EM/NM, the HSS shall also propagate the
> trace control and configuration data to the MME by either S6a-Insert
> subscriber data message or the S6a-Update Location Answer message. When MME
> receives the trace control and configuration data from the HSS it shall
> store the information and shall start a Trace Session.
>
> During inter-MME TAU, the MME shall propagate the trace control and
> configuration parameters to the target MME within an S10- Context Response
> as part of inter-MME TAU procedures. During attach procedures where the
> context information is requested from the target MME, the MME shall
> propagate the trace control and configuration parameters within an
> S10-Identification Response message. During inter-MME handover, the MME
> shall propagate the trace control and configuration parameters to the target
> MME within an S10- Forward Relocation Request message as part of inter-MME
> handover procedures.
>
> If the List of NE Types parameter specifies tracing in the SGW and/or
> Tracing in the PGW, MME shall propagate the trace control and configuration
> parameters via the S11 interface to the SGW per one of the following
> messages:
  1. if a default bearer connection has not been established, via the > S11: Create Session Request message
  2. otherwise via the S11-Trace Session Activation message
> The SGW upon receiving the trace control and configuration parameters shall
> start a trace session.
>
> If the List of NE Types parameter specifies Tracing in the PGW, SGW shall
> propagate the trace control and configuration parameters via the S5
> interface to the PGW per one of the following messages:
  1. if a default bearer connection has not been established, via the S5: > Create Session Request message
  2. otherwise via the S5-Trace Session Activation message
> The PGW upon receiving the trace control and configuration parameters shall
> start a trace session.
>
> When a triggering events, defined in the trace control and configuration
> data occur (i.e. a session is started) a Trace Recording Session should be
> started and the trace control and configuration data should be propagated to
> the radio network to the eNB if the List of NE Types parameter specifies eNB
> tracing. However if the triggering events parameter at MME indicates that
> all events should be traced, Trace Recording Session shall be started only
> when the user specific S1 association is setup to the eNB and the Trace
> Recording Session is kept as long as the user specific S1 association is
> released or the Trace Session is deactivated. See section 4.2.3.6.
>
> When HSS activates the trace to the MME the following trace control and
> configuration parameters shall be included in the message:
  * IMSI or IMEISV
  * Trace Reference
  * Triggering events for MME, Serving GW, PDN GW
  * Trace Depth
  * List of NE types to trace
  * List of Interfaces for MME, Serving GW, PDN GW, eNB
  * IP address of Trace Collection Entity
> When MME activates the trace to the SGW the following trace control and
> configuration parameters shall be included in the message::
  * IMSI or IMEISV
  * Trace Reference
  * Triggering events for Serving GW, PDN GW
  * Trace Depth
  * List of NE types to trace
  * List of Interfaces for Serving GW, PDN GW
  * IP address of Trace Collection Entity
> When SGW activates the trace to the PGW the following trace control and
> configuration parameters shall be included in the message:
  * IMSI or IMEISV
  * Trace Reference
  * Triggering events for PDN GW
  * Trace Depth
  * List of Interfaces for PDN GW
  * IP address of Trace Collection Entity
> When MME sends the trace control and configuration parameters to the eNB the
> following information shall be included in the message:
  * Trace Reference
  * Trace Recording Session Reference
  * Trace Depth
  * IP Address of Trace Collection Entity
> and the following information may be included in the message:
  * List of Interfaces for eNB
Figure 4.1.2.10.1.A illustrates the Trace Session activation in case of PMIP
based S5 interface. The figure contains only the difference compare to the GTP
based S5 interface
Figure 4.1.2.10.1.A Trace Session Activation from SWG to PGW in case of PMIP
based S5 interface
When the SGW receives the Trace Session activation message and the List of NE
Type to trace parameter specifies Tracing in the PDN GW , SGW shall send Trace
Session Activation to PDN GW via the PCRF. The Trace Session activation can be
done as part of the IP CAN session establishment or as a standalone procedure
[29].
The Trace Session Activation shall include the following information:
  * IMSI or IMEISV
  * Trace reference
  * Trace Recording Session Reference
  * Trace Depth
  * Triggering events for PDN GW
  * List of Interfaces for PDN GW
  * IP address of Trace Collection Entity
> When the PCRF receives the Trace Session Activation it shall forward the
> same trace control and configuration parameters to the PDN GW [29].
Figure 4.1.2.10.2 illustrates the Trace Session activation when the UE is
attached from a non-3GPP access network.
Figure 4.1.2.10.2 Trace Session activation procedure to PGW in case of UE
attaches from non-3GPP access network
When the UE attaches to the EPC network via a non-3GPP access network the
Trace Session activation to the PGW can be done only via HSS and AAA server.
Therefore when the UE attach is signalled to the HSS via non-3GPP access
network, the HSS shall send the the Trace control and configuration parameters
to the AAA server as part of the user profile download [25]. The following
information shall be included in the downloaded user data:
  * IMSI, or IMEI(SV)
  * Trace Reference
  * Triggering event for PGW
  * Trace Depth
  * List of interface for PGW
  * IP address of Trace Collection Entity
When the AAA server receives the user profile, which contains also the trace
control and configuration parameters, it shall store the received trace
control and configuration parameters. The AAA server shall forward the
received trace control and configuration parameters in the authorization when
it receives the authorization request from the PGW during the PDN
connectivity.
The event, which triggers the authorization in the PDN GW depend on the used
IP mobility protocol:
  * In case of DSMIP (option A), it is a binding update received from the UE,
  * In case of PMIP (Option B), it is a proxy binding update request received from the Trusted Non-3GPP GW or ePDG playing the role of the Mobile Access Gateway (MAG)
If the UE is already registered to the HSS by a AAA server via the SWx
interface, Trace Session activation shall also be possible from the HSS to the
PDN GW via the AAA server. In that case the HSS sends the Trace Session
activation message with a push profile request.
The AAA server shall examine the received user profile and if Trace Session
activation is needed in the PDN GW, it shall initiate a re-authorization
procedure towards the the PDN GW. The Trace Session is activated to te PDN GW
using this re-authorization procedure. When PDN GW receives the Trace Session
activation message, it shall save the received trace control and configuration
parameters.
#### 4.1.2.11 E-UTRAN activation mechanisms
The Trace Session should be activated in in an eNB when the eNB receives the
TRACE START, INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST or HANDOVER REQUEST message with
the IE _Trace Activation_ from the MME and if some activities have been
started on the interfaces that have been requested to be traced.
If the subscriber or equipment which is traced makes a handover to a target
eNB using the X2 interface, the source eNB should propagate the trace control
and configuration parameters further to the target eNB by using the HANDOVER
REQUEST message. When the target eNB receives the HANDOVER REQUEST message it
should immediately start a Trace Session according to the trace control and
configuration parameters received in the HANDOVER REQUEST message.
If the subscriber or equipment which is traced makes a handover to a target
eNB using the S1 interface, it is the MME\'s responsibility to propagate the
trace control and configuration parameters to the target eNB.
##### Interaction with Relocation {#interaction-with-relocation .H6}
If the tracing shall continue also after the relocation has been performed,
the CN Invoke Trace procedure shall be re-initiated from the CN towards the
future eNB after the Relocation Resource Allocation procedure has been
executed successfully.
The TRACE START, INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST or HANDOVER REQUEST message
that is received from the MME contains the following information:
  * Trace Reference (including Trace Recording Session Reference)
  * Trace Depth
  * List of interfaces for eNB
  * IP address of Trace Collection Entity
### 4.1.3 Management deactivation
#### 4.1.3.1 UTRAN deactivation mechanisms
When last Trace session is requested to be ended for an IMEI(SV) or a list of
IMEI(SV), the RNC shall send the requested IMEI(SV)/list of IMEI(SV)s in
\'Uplink Information Exchange Request\' to the interacting MSC Server(s) and
SGSN(s). The MSC Servers and SGSNs shall remove the requested IMEI(SV)s for
the RNC in question.
#### 4.1.3.2 PS Domain deactivation mechanisms
When a SGSN, GGSN or BM-SC receives a Trace Session Deactivation from its EM,
the Trace Session identified by the Trace Reference, shall be deactivated in
SGSN/GGSN/BM-SC.
If a Trace Recording Session is active at the time of receiving a Trace
Session deactivation from the EM, the SGSN/GGSN/BM-SC may choose to continue
the Trace Recording Session till it ends gracefully or may stop it
immediately. In all cases, the SGSN/GGSN/BM-SC shall deactivate the requested
Trace Session immediately at the end of the Trace Recording Session.
#### 4.1.3.3 CS Domain deactivation mechanisms
When a MSC Server receives a Trace Session Deactivation from its EM, the Trace
Session identified by the Trace Reference, shall be deactivated in MSC Server.
If a Trace Recording Session is active at the time of receiving a Trace
Session deactivation from the EM, the MSC Server may choose to continue the
Trace Recording Session till it ends gracefully or may stop it immediately. In
all cases, the MSC Server shall deactivate the requested Trace Session
immediately at the end of the Trace Recording Session.
#### 4.1.3.4 IP Multimedia Subsystem deactivation mechanisms
When a S-CSCF/P-CSCF receives a Trace Session deactivation from the EM, the
Trace Session identified by the Trace Reference, shall be deactivated.
If a Trace Recording Session is active at the time of receiving a Trace
Session deactivation from the EM, the S-CSCF/P-CSCF may choose to continue the
Trace Recording Session till it ends gracefully or may stop it immediately. In
all cases, the S-CSCF/P-CSCF shall deactivate the requested Trace Session
immediately at the end of the Trace Recording Session.
The following figure illustrates how the Trace Session is deactivated when a
Trace Recording Session is going on (e.g. a SIP INVITE method is being traced
in S-CSCF).
Figure 4.1.3.4.1: Trace session deactivation in IMS
#### 4.1.3.5 E-UTRAN deactivation mechanisms
In E-UTRAN the Cell Traffic trace functionality can be deactivated when the
eNodeB receives the Trace Session Deactivation message from the EM. At this
time the eNodeB shall deactivate the Trace Session for those E-UTRAN Cells
that have been indicated in the Trace Session Deactivation message received
from the EM.
#### 4.1.3.6 EPC Domain deactivation mechanisms
When a MME or a SGW receives a Trace Session Deactivation from its EM, the
Trace Session identified by the Trace Reference, shall be deactivated in the
MME or the SGW.
If a Trace Recording Session is active at the time of receiving a Trace
Session deactivation from the EM, the MME may choose to continue the Trace
Session and the Trace Recording Session till it ends gracefully or may stop it
immediately. In all cases, the MME shall deactivate the requested Trace
Session immediately at the end of the Trace Recording Session.
### 4.1.4 Signalling deactivation
#### 4.1.4.1 General
In Signalling deactivation, the Trace Deactivation shall always be carried out
from the Core Network EM only [EM (PS), EM (CS), EM(EPC) and EM (HSS) are
generally considered to be in the Core Network. A Core Network EM can be any
of these or their combinations]. In case of home subscriber trace (i.e. in the
HPLMN) the Trace Session deactivation shall go to the HSS, MSC Server/VLR,
SGSN or MME. In case of foreign subscriber trace (i.e. the HPLMN operator
wishes to deactivate tracing on foreign subscribers roaming in his PLMN) the
Trace Session deactivation shall go the MSC Server/VLR SGSN or MME. The
Management System shall deactivate the Trace Session in the same NE where it
activated the Trace Session.
When an HSS receives a Trace Session deactivation from its Management system,
it shall deactivate the active Trace Session corresponding to the Trace
Reference received in the deactivation message. The HSS shall delete all trace
control and configuration parameters associated with this Trace Session. If a
Trace Recording Session is active at the time of receiving a Trace Session
deactivation message from the EM, the HSS may choose to continue the Trace
Recording Session till it ends gracefully or may stop it immediately. In all
cases, the HSS shall deactivate the requested Trace Session immediately at the
end of the Trace Recording Session.
#### 4.1.4.2 UTRAN deactivation mechanisms
When RNC receives the CN_DEACTIVATE_TRACE message it shall deactivate the
Trace Session for the indicated Trace Reference in the CN_DEACTIVATE_TRACE
message. In case of simultaneous CS/PS connections, the trace session for the
indicated trace reference shall be closed upon reception of the CN DEACTIVATE
TRACE message from any of the CN domain, whether it was the one which
initiated trace session activation or not.
The Trace Session is also deactivated in the RNC when the Iu connection to the
Core Network is released.
If CN_INVOKE_TRACE message is received for only one Iu connection (either CS
or PS) the Trace Session shall be deactivated in the RNC when the
IU_RELEASE_COMMAND message is received from the Core Network for that Iu
connection where the CN_INVOKE_TRACE message is sent.
The following figure shows this behaviour:
Figure 4.1.4.2.1: Trace session deactivation (Signalling) in UTRAN 1
If CN_INVOKE_TRACE message is received by the RNC for both Iu-CS and Iu-PS
connection with the same Trace Reference number than the Trace Session shall
not be deactivated in the RNC when any of the Iu connection is released (when
the first IU_RELEASE_COMMAND message is received). The Trace Session shall be
deactivated when the second Iu connection is released (the second
IU_RELEASE_COMMAND message is received). The following figure shows the
situation.
Figure 4.1.4.2.2: Trace session deactivation (Signalling) in UTRAN 2
Interaction with Soft-handover
The Trace Session should be deactivated in a Drift RNC when the DRNC receives
the IUR_DEACTIVATE_TRACE message or the Iur connection is released.
When an RNC deactivates a Trace Session the Trace Recording Session shall also
be stopped at the same time.
NOTE: In RNC the Trace Session and the Trace Recording Session always the
same.
#### 4.1.4.3 PS Domain deactivation mechanisms
When an HSS receives a Trace Session deactivation from the Management System
it shall send a MAP_DEACTIVATE_TRACE_MODE message to the SGSN.
When the SGSN receives a MAP_DEACTIVATE_TRACE_MODE message it shall deactivate
the Trace Session identified by the Trace reference received in the
MAP_DEACTIVATE_TRACE_MODE message.
If a Trace Recording Session is active at the time of receiving a deactivation
message (in SGSN it is the MAP-DEACTIVATE_TRACE_MODE, in GGSN it is the GTP
Update PDP Context Request or the Update MBMS Context Request, in BM-SC it is
the Diameter Gmb STR message), the SGSN and/or the GGSN and/or the BM-SC may
choose to continue the Trace Recording Session till it ends gracefully or may
stop it immediately. In all cases, the SGSN/GGSN/BM-SC shall deactivate the
requested Trace Session immediately at the end of the Trace Recording Session.
When the SGSN deactivates the Trace Session, it shall delete all trace control
and configuration parameters associated with the corresponding Trace Session.
If SGSN deactivates the Trace Session during the Trace Recording Session, the
SGSN should deactivate the trace to the RNC by using the CN_DEACTIVATE_TRACE
RANAP message and should deactivate the trace to the GGSN by sending the GTP
Update PDP Context Request or the Update MBMS Context Request message with
Trace Activity Control set to Trace Deactivation.
If the GGSN deactivates the Trace Session during the Trace Recording Session,
the GGSN should deactivate the trace to the BM-SC (by sending a Diameter Gmb
STR message).
#### 4.1.4.4 CS Domain deactivation mechanisms
When an HSS receives Trace Session deactivation from the Management System it
shall send a MAP_DEACTIVATE_TRACE_MODE message to the MSC Server.
When the MSC Server receives a MAP_DEACTIVATE_TRACE_MODE message it shall
deactivate the Trace Session identified by the Trace reference received in the
MAP_DEACTIVATE_TRACE_MODE message.
If a Trace Recording Session is active at the time of receiving a
MAP_DEACTIVATE_TRACE_MODE message from the HSS, the MSC Server may choose to
continue the Trace Recording Session till it ends gracefully or may stop it
immediately. In all cases, the MSC Server shall deactivate the requested Trace
Session immediately at the end of the Trace Recording Session. When the MSC
Server deactivates the Trace Session it shall delete all trace control and
configuration parameters associated with the corresponding Trace Session. .
If MSC Server deactivates the Trace Session during a Trace Recording Session,
it should deactivate the trace to the RNC by sending the CN_DEACTIVATE_TRACE
RANAP message and should deactivate the trace to the MGW.
#### 4.1.4.5 Void
#### 4.1.4.6 Void
##### 4.1.4.6.1 Void
##### 4.1.4.6.2 Void
##### 4.1.4.6.2.1 Void
##### 4.1.4.6.2.2 Void
##### 4.1.4.6.2.3 Void
##### 4.1.4.6.3 Void
#### 4.1.4.7 EPC deactivation mechanisms
When an HSS receives a Trace Session Deactivation from the Management System
it shall send an S6a-Delete Subscriber Data Request message to the MME at
which the UE is currently registered if MME is included in the NE types for
Tracing, via the S6a interface to remove the "trace data" from subscription
data (see 3GPP TS 29.272[26]). The HSS shall deactivate trace if trace is
active at the HSS.
When the MME receives the S6a-Delete Subscriber Data Request message to remove
the "trace data" from subscription data (see 3GPP TS 29.272 [26]) or the Trace
Session is deactivated directly from the EM it shall deactivate the Trace
Session identified by the Trace Reference.
If the UE was registered to the HSS by an MME via the S6a interface, (.e. the
user is attached to a 3GPP access network), the Trace Session shall be
deactivated to the MME via the S6a interface.
If the user was registered by a AAA server via the SWx interface (i.e. the
user is attached to a non-3GPP network) the HSS shall send the Trace Session
deactivation request with a push profile request.
The AAA server shall examine the received user profile and if it detects that
the Trace Session shall be deactivated, it shall initiate a re-authorization
procedure towards the PDN GW. The Trace Session is deactivated in the PDN GW
by using this re-authorization procedure.
When the PDN GW receives the updated authorization data with trace information
that represents Trace Session deactivation request, it shall deactivate the
Trace Session identified by the Trace Reference.
The following figure illustrates the Trace Session deactivation when the user
is attached to a non-3GPP access network.
{width="3.8541666666666665in" height="3.1666666666666665in"}
Figure 4.1.4.7.1 Trace Session deactivation in case UE attached from non-3GPP
access network.
When the MME receives the S6a-Delete Subscriber Data Request message to remove
the "trace data" from subscription data (see 3GPP TS 29.272 [26]) or the Trace
Session is deactivated directly from the EM it shall deactivate the Trace
Session identified by the Trace Reference.
If a Trace Recording Session is active at the time of receiving a deactivation
message, the MME may choose to continue the Trace Recording Session until it
ends gracefully or may stop it immediately. In all cases, the MME shall
deactivate the requested Trace Session immediately at the end of the Trace
Recording Session. When the MME deactivates the Trace Session, it shall delete
all trace control and configuration parameters associated with the
corresponding Trace Session.
If MME deactivates the Trace Session during the Trace Recording Session, the
MME should deactivate the trace at the eNB by sending the S1-Deactivate Trace
message to the eNodeB via the S1 interface and should deactivate the trace at
the SGW by sending an S11-Trace Session Deactivation message to the SGW via
the S11 interface. The message sent by MME shall include the Trace Reference
to identify the Trace Session that is to be deactivated.
When SGW receives an S11-Trace Session Deactivation message from the MME, the
SGW may choose to continue the Trace Recording Session until it ends
gracefully or may stop it immediately. In all cases, the SGW shall deactivate
the requested Trace Session immediately at the end of the Trace Recording
Session. If SGW deactivates the Trace Session during the Trace Recording
Session, the SGW should deactivate the trace at the PDN GW by sending the
S5-Trace Session Deactivation message to the PGW via the GTP based S5
interface. In case of PMIP based S5 interface the SGW should deactivate the
trace to the PDN GW using PCC signalling, i.e. by sending a Trace Deactivation
message to the PCRF and PCRF forwards the trace deactivation message to the
PDN GW [29].When the SGW deactivates the Trace Session, it shall delete all
trace control and configuration parameters associated with the corresponding
Trace Session.
When PGW receives an S5-Trace Session Deactivation message from the SGW, , or
it receives the Trace Session Deactivation message from PCRF in case of PMIP
based S5, the PDN GW may choose to continue the Trace Recording Session until
it ends gracefully or may stop it immediately. In all cases, the PDN GW shall
deactivate the requested Trace Session immediately at the end of the Trace
Recording Session. When the PDN GW deactivates the Trace Session, it shall
delete all trace control and configuration parameters associated with the
corresponding Trace Session.
When a Trace Session Deactivation message is sent on any interface the Trace
Reference that identifies the Trace Session shall be included to the Trace
Session Deactivation message.
#### 4.1.4.8 E-UTRAN deactivation mechanisms
There are two different events that deactivate a Trace Session:
  1. When eNB receives the S1- Deactivate Trace message it shall deactivate the Trace Session for the indicated Trace Reference.
```{=html}
``` 1\. When the eNB releases the UE context the Trace Recording Session shall
be stopped and the Trace Session is deactivated at the eNB.
## 4.2 Trace recording session Start / Stop triggering
### 4.2.1 General
The Trace Session activation contains the triggering events parameter. The
actual start/stop triggering events corresponding to the values of the
triggering events parameter are defined in triggering events tables in sub-
clause 5.1 in the present document.
If the NE failed to start the Trace Recording Session, a Trace failure
notification shall be sent to the TCE, and the Trace failure notification has
the the same parameters as the notification notifyTraceRecordingSessionFailure
defined in 3GPP TS 32.442[24], the Trace failure notification file XML schema
is defined in Annex A.
### 4.2.2 Starting a trace recording session - management based
#### 4.2.2.1 UTRAN starting mechanisms
In an RNC, a Trace Recording Session should start after the reception of the
CN_INVOKE_TRACE message from the CN and if some activities have been started
on the interfaces that have been requested to be traced. The RNC shall record
those signalling messages in the interfaces that are defined in the _list of
interfaces_ parameter. Trace depth defines whether entire signalling messages
or just some IEs needs to be recorded.
The RNC may not start a Trace Recording Session if there are insufficient
resources available for the recording.
When RNC starts a Trace Recording Session it shall assign a Trace Recording
Session Reference for the Trace Recording Session.
#### 4.2.2.2 PS Domain starting mechanisms
In a SGSN/GGSN/BM-SC, a Trace Recording Session should start after the
reception of a Trace Session Activation from EM and if any of the defined
_start triggering events_ occur. During the Trace Recording Session, the
SGSN/GGSN/BM-SC shall record those signalling messages in the interfaces that
are defined in the _list of interfaces_ parameter. The _Trace Depth_ parameter
defines whether entire signalling messages or just some IEs need to be
recorded.
The IMSI and IMEISV shall be available in the SGSN, in the GGSN and in the BM-
SC for at least those connections which shall be traced.
The SGSN/GGSN/BM-SC may not start a Trace Recording Session if there are
insufficient resources available for the recording.
If the SGSN/GGSN/BM-SC receives the Trace Session Activation during an
established session (e.g. during an active PDP context or an active MBMS
context), it _may_ start the Trace Recording Session immediately. However, if
any of the start triggering events occur in the SGSN/GGSN/BM-SC after
receiving the Trace Session Activation, it shall start the Trace Recording
Session.
When a Trace Recording Session is started, the SGSN/GGSN/BM-SC shall assign a
Trace Recording Session Reference for the Trace Recording Session.
#### 4.2.2.3 CS Domain starting mechanisms
In a MSC Server, a Trace Recording Session shall start after the reception of
a Trace Session Activation from EM and if any of the defined _start triggering
events_ occur. During the Trace Recording Session, the MSC Server shall record
those signalling messages in the interfaces that are defined in the _list of
interfaces_ parameter. The _Trace Depth_ parameter defines whether entire
signalling messages or just some IEs needs to be recorded.
The IMSI and the IMEISV shall be available in the MSC Server for at least
those connections which shall be traced.
The MSC Server may not start a Trace Recording Session if there are
insufficient resources available for the recording.
If the MSC Server receives the Trace Session Activation during an established
call, it _may_ start the Trace Recording Session immediately. However, if any
of the start triggering events occurs in MSC Server after receiving the Trace
Session Activation, it shall start the Trace Recording Session.
When a Trace Recording Session is started, the MSC Server shall assign a Trace
Recording Session Reference for the Trace Recording Session.
#### 4.2.2.4 Void
#### 4.2.2.5 E-UTRAN starting mechanism
In E-UTRAN, after the Cell Traffic Trace has been activated in the monitored
cell(s), the eNodeB shall start a Trace Recording Session for new
call(s)/session(s) and for already existing call(s)/session(s) (events for
existing call(s)/session(s) are not required to be recorded prior to the
activation of the cell traffic trace). When the eNodeB starts a Trace
Recording Session it shall allocate a Trace Recording Session Reference for
the given call or session. The eNodeB shall send the allocated Trace Recording
Session Reference, and the Trace Reference and the Trace Collection Entity
address in the CELL TRAFFIC TRACE message to the MME via the S1 connection.
When MME receives this new S1 signalling message containing the Trace
Recording Session Reference and Trace Reference, the MME shall look up the
IMSI/IMEI(SV) of the given call from its database and shall send the
IMSI/IMEI(SV) numbers together with the Trace Recording Session Reference and
Trace Reference to the Trace Collection Entity.
The format of the file sent to the TCE from the MME is defined in 3GPP TS
32.423 A.2.2.
The figure 4.2.2.5.1 illustrates the procedure
Figure 4.2.2.5.1
#### 4.2.2.6 EPC Domain starting mechanisms
In a MME or a SGW, a Trace Recording Session should start after the reception
of a Trace Session Activation from EM and if any of the defined _start
triggering events_ occur. During the Trace Recording Session, the MME or the
SGW shall record those signalling messages in the interfaces that are defined
in the _list of interfaces_ parameter. The _Trace Depth_ parameter defines
whether entire signalling messages or just some IEs need to be recorded.
The IMSI and IMEISV shall be available in the MME and in the SGW for at least
those connections which shall be traced.
The MME or the SGW may not start a Trace Recording Session if there are
insufficient resources available for the recording.
If the MME or the SGW receives the Trace Session Activation during an
established session (e.g. during an active PDP context), it may start the
Trace Recording Session immediately. However, if any of the start triggering
events occur in the MME or the SGW after receiving the Trace Session
Activation, it shall start the Trace Recording Session.
When a Trace Recording Session is started, the MME or the SGW shall assign a
Trace Recording Session Reference for the Trace Recording Session.
### 4.2.3 Starting a trace recording session - signalling based
#### 4.2.3.1 UTRAN starting mechanisms
In an RNC the Trace Recording Session will always be the same as the Trace
Session as no triggering events are defined in UTRAN. Therefore a Trace
Recording Session should be started in an SRNC when the SRNC receives the
CN_INVOKE_TRACE message from the Core Network and if some activities have been
started on the interfaces that have been requested to be traced. If the SRNC
receives a second CN_INVOKE_TRACE message from the CN with the same Trace
Reference that have been received in the first CN_INVOKE_TRACE message, a new
Trace Recording Session should not be started as it is already started.
The CN_INVOKE_TRACE message that is received from the Core Network (MSC Server
or SGSN) contains the following information:
  * Trace Reference
  * UE identity (IMSI or IMEI(SV)
  * Trace Recording Session Reference
  * Trace Depth
  * List of interfaces for RNC
If the SRNC does not have enough resources it may not start a Trace Recording
Session.
The Trace Recording Session Reference shall be the same as received in the
CN_INVOKE_TRACE message.
In a DRNC the Trace Recording Session should be started when the DRNC receives
the IUR_INVOKE_TRACE message. If the DRNC does not have enough resources it
may not start a Trace Recording Session.
The Trace Session is activated to the RNC by sending a CN_INVOKE_TRACE message
from the CN (MSC Server or SGSN). When RNC receives the CN_INVOKE_TRACE
message it should immediately start a Trace Session and a Trace Recording
Session according to the trace control and configuration parameters received
in the CN_INVOKE_TRACE message.
If there are not enough resources in RNC to start a Trace Recording Session,
the RNC may reject to start a Trace Recording Session. However the RNC shall
start the Trace Session.
In the case RNC receives multiple CN INVOKE TRACE messages for the same
subscriber or equipment (e.g. simultaneous CS/PS connections):
  * If the Trace Reference is equal to an existing one, a new trace session and trace recording session shall not be started;
  * If the Trace Reference is not equal to an existing one, a new trace session and trace recording session may be started.
The following figure shows an example for a CS call how the Trace Session is
activated to RNC. In the example it is assumed that there is no PS connection
at all during the CS call.
Figure 4.2.3.1.1: Starting a Trace Recording Session (Signalling) in UTRAN
##### Interaction with soft-handovers {#interaction-with-soft-handovers .H6}
If the subscriber or equipment, which is traced, makes a soft handover the
SRNC should propagate the trace control and configuration parameters further
to the DRNC by using the IUR_INVOKE_TRACE message. When the DRNC receives the
IUR_INVOKE_TRACE message it should immediately start a Trace Session and a
Trace Recording Session according to the trace control and configuration
parameters received in the IUR_INVOKE_TRACE message.
If there are insufficient resources in the DRNC, the DRNC may not start a
Trace Recording Session.
The Trace Recording Session Reference sent by the SRNC to the DRNC shall be
the same what SRNC has received in the CN_INVOKE_TRACE message from the CN.
##### Interaction with Relocation {#interaction-with-relocation-1 .H6}
If the tracing shall continue also after the relocation has been performed,
the CN Invoke Trace procedure shall be re-initiated from the CN towards the
future SRNC after the Relocation Resource Allocation procedure has been
executed successfully.
#### 4.2.3.2 PS Domain starting mechanisms
In SGSN/GGSN/BM-SC a Trace Recording Session should start after the reception
of a Trace Session Activation message (in SGSN it is the MAP-
ACTIVATE_TRACE_MODE, in GGSN it is the GTP-Create PDP Context request or
Update PDP Context request, in BM-SC it is the Diameter Gmb AAR message) and
if any of the defined _start triggering events_ occur. During the Trace
Recording Session, the SGSN/GGSN/BM-SC shall record the signalling messages in
the interfaces that are defined in the _list of interfaces_ parameter. The
_Trace Depth_ parameter defines whether entire signalling messages or just
some IEs need to be recorded.
The SGSN/GGSN/BM-SC may not start a Trace Recording Session if there are
insufficient resources available for the recording.
In case of an established session, the SGSN may start the Trace Recording
Session immediately after the reception of the Trace Session Activation
message. However, if any of the start triggering events occurs in SGSN after
receiving the Trace Session activation message, it shall start the Trace
Recording.
When a Trace Recording Session is started in SGSN, it shall assign a Trace
Recording Session Reference for the Trace Recording Session. When the SGSN
propagates the Trace control and configuration parameters to GGSN or to UTRAN
(I.e. activates a Trace Session in GGSN/UTRAN), it shall include the assigned
Trace Recording Session Reference in the Trace Session Activation message.
When an SGSN starts a Trace Recording Session and the list of NE types
parameter requires GGSN tracing, it shall send the GTP- Update PDP Context
Request or Create PDP Context Request message for activating the Trace Session
to GGSN. When a GGSN starts a Trace Recording Session and the list of NE types
parameter requires BM-SC tracing, it shall send a Diameter Gmb AAR message to
the BM-SC in order to activate a Trace Session in the BM-SC. Also, when an
SGSN starts a Trace Recording Session and the list of NE types parameter
requires RNC tracing, it shall send the CN_INVOKE_TRACE message to the RNC in
order to activate a Trace Session in RNC. In both cases the Trace Session and
the Trace Recording Session in the receiving NE should start at the same time.
In case of SRNS relocation the SGSN shall send the CN_INVOKE_TRACE message to
the new SRNC after the successful Relocation Resource Allocation procedure.
SGSN has to find the identity of the mobile before it activates a Trace
Session towards other NE. The IMEI(SV) can be got from the Mobile by using the
Identification procedure on the Iu interface.
When the SGSN sends the Trace Session activation (CN_INVOKE_TRACE) message to
RNC it shall include the following parameters to the message:
  * IMSI or IMEI (SV) (M).
  * Trace reference (M).
  * Trace Recording Session Reference (M).
  * Trace Depth (M).
  * List of interfaces (O).
#### 4.2.3.3 CS Domain starting mechanisms
In MSC Server/MGW a Trace Recording Session should start after the reception
of a Trace Session Activation message (MAP-ACTIVATE TRACE MODE in MSC Server
and ADD/MOD command with Trace package in MGW) and if any of the defined
_start triggering events_ occur. During the Trace Recording Session the MSC
Server/MGW shall record the signalling messages in the interfaces that are
defined in the _list of interfaces_ parameter. The _Trace Depth_ parameter
defines whether entire signalling messages or just some IEs need to be
recorded.
The MSC Server may not start a Trace Recording Session if there are
insufficient resources available for the recording.
In case of an established call, the MSC Server may start the Trace Recording
Session immediately after the reception of the MAP-ACTIVATE_TRACE_MODE
message. However, if any of the start triggering events occur in the MSC
Server after receiving the Trace Session activation message, it shall start
the Trace Recording Session.
When a Trace Recording Session is started in MSC Server, it shall assign a
Trace Recording Session Reference for the Trace Recording Session. When the
MSC Server propagates the Trace control and configuration parameters to MGW or
to UTRAN (I.e. activates a Trace Session in MGW/UTRAN) it shall include the
assigned Trace Recording Session Reference in the Trace Session Activation
message.
When an MSC Server starts a Trace Recording Session and the list of NE types
parameter requires MGW tracing, it shall send the ADD/MOD command with trace
package to MGW in order to activate the trace in MGW. Also, when an MSC Server
starts a Trace Recording Session and the list of NE types parameter requires
RNC tracing, it shall send the CN_INVOKE_TRACE message to the RNC. In both
cases the Trace Session and the Trace Recording Session in the receiving NE
should start at the same time.
MSC Server has to find the identity of the mobile before it activates a Trace
Session towards other NE. The IMEI(SV) can be got from the Mobile by using the
Identification procedure on the Iu interface.
In case of SRNS relocation the MSC Server shall send the CN_INVOKE_TRACE
message to the new SRNC after the successful Relocation Resource Allocation
procedure. The following figure shows an example how the Trace Session is
activated with CN_INVOKE_TRACE message in case of relocation.
Figure 4.2.3.3.1: Starting a Trace Recording Session (Signalling) in CS Domain
When the new SRNC receives the CN_INVOKE_TRACE message it should start
immediately a Trace Session and a Trace Recording session according to the
trace control and configuration parameters received in the CN_INVOKE_TRACE
message. The Trace Session shall automatically be deactivated in the old RNC
when the Iu connection is released.
When the MSC Server sends the Trace Session activation (CN_INVOKE_TRACE)
message to RNC it shall include the following parameters to the message:
  * IMSI or IMEI (SV) (M).
  * Trace reference (M).
  * Trace Recording Session Reference (M).
  * Trace Depth (M).
  * List of interfaces to trace (O).
#### 4.2.3.4 Void
#### 4.2.3.5 Void
##### 4.2.3.5.1 Void
##### 4.2.3.5.2 Void
##### 4.2.3.5.3 Void
##### 4.2.3.5.4 Void
#### 4.2.3.6 E-UTRAN starting mechanism
In an eNB the Trace Recording Session will always be the same as the Trace
Session as no triggering events are defined in eNB.
Tracing starts immediately at eNodeB upon reception of the trace control and
configuration parameters. The eNodeB may not start a Trace Recording Session
if there are insufficient resources available for the recording.
The Trace Recording Session shall be started at the eNB when it receives trace
control and configuration parameters via one of the following messages:
  1. via an S1-Initial Context Setup Request message from the MME in response to an S1-Initial UE Message
  2. via an S1-Trace Start message from the MME in response to an S1-Initial UE Message or when an established S1AP connection exists
  3. via an S1-Handover Request message from the target MME as part of intra/inter-MME handover procedures via S1
  4. via an X2-Handover Request message from a source eNodeB as part of inter-eNodeB handover procedures via X2
#### 4.2.3.7 EPC starting mechanisms
In MME/SGW/PGW a Trace Recording Session should start after the reception of a
Trace Session Activation message and if any of the defined _start triggering
events_ occur. During the Trace Recording Session, the MME/SGW/PGW shall
record the signalling messages in the interfaces that are defined in the _list
of interfaces_ parameter. The _Trace Depth_ parameter defines whether entire
signalling messages or just some IEs need to be recorded.
The MME/SGW/PGW may not start a Trace Recording Session if there are
insufficient resources available for the recording.
In case of an established session, the MME/SGW/PGW may start the Trace
Recording Session immediately after the reception of the trace control and
configuration parameters. However, if any of the start triggering events
occurs in MME/SGW/PGW after receiving the trace control and configuration
parameters, it shall start the Trace Recording Session.
When a Trace Recording Session is started in MME, it shall assign a Trace
Recording Session Reference for the Trace Recording Session. When the MME
propagates the Trace control and configuration parameters to E-UTRAN (I.e.
activates a Trace Session in eNB), it shall include the assigned Trace
Recording Session Reference in the Trace Session Activation message.
Also, when an MME starts a Trace Recording Session and the list of NE types
parameter requires eNB tracing, it shall propagate the trace control and
configuration parameters including the Trace Recording Session Reference via
the S1 interface to the eNodeB per one of the following messages:
  1. if an S1 connection exists, via the S1-Trace Start message
  2. if the S1 connection doesn't exist, via the S1-Trace Start message prior to S1 connection setup or downlink NAS transport, or via the S1-Initial Context Setup Request message during S1 connection setup
  3. during intra/inter-MME handover via S1-Handover Request message
  4. for the cases when neither of the above conditions(1-3) is met, e.g. successful TAU without active flag, and some failed procedures (like TAU failure, Attach failure) for which S1-Initial Context Setup Request is not sent to the eNB, via an S1-DOWNLINK NAS TRANSPORT message
In both cases the Trace Session and the Trace Recording Session in the
receiving NE should start at the same time.
### 4.2.4 Stopping a trace recording session - management based
#### 4.2.4.1 UTRAN stopping mechanisms
The Trace Recording Session in the RNC shall be stopped when the last
connection, which belongs to the traced subscriber/mobile, is released.
#### 4.2.4.2 PS Domain stopping mechanisms
In SGSN, GGSN and BM-SC a Trace Recording Session shall be stopped when any of
the defined stop triggering events occur. If Trace Session deactivation is
received during the Trace Recording Session, the SGSN is allowed to finish
tracing of the on-going procedures (e.g. session). In this case the Trace
Recording Session shall be stopped between the reception of the Trace Session
deactivation and the appropriate stop-triggering event.
The following figure illustrates the successful case in tracing a PDP context
when a Trace Recording Session is stopped.
Figure 4.2.4.2.1: Stopping a Trace Recording Session for a PDP Context
(Management Based) - PS domain
The following figure illustrates the successful case in tracing a MBMS context
when a Trace Recording Session is stopped.
Figure 4.2.4.2.2: Stopping a Trace Recording Session for a MBMS Context
(Management Based) - PS domain
#### **4.2.4.3 CS Domain stopping mechanisms**
In MSC Server a Trace Recording Session shall be stopped when any of the
defined stop triggering events occur. If Trace Session deactivation is
received during the Trace Recording Session, the MSC Server is allowed to
finish tracing of the on-going procedures (e.g. calls). In this case the Trace
Recording Session shall be stopped in MSC Server between the reception of the
Trace Session deactivation and the appropriate stop-triggering event.
The following figure illustrates the successful case in tracing a call and the
time of stopping a Trace Recording Session.
Figure 4.2.4.3.1: Stopping a Trace Recording Session (Management Based) \- CS
domain
#### 4.2.4.4 Void
#### 4.2.4.5 E-UTRAN stopping mechanisms
The Trace Recording Session in the eNodeB shall be stopped when the
call/session is ended in the cell under trace or the call/session is haneded
over to another cell. If the Trace Session is deactivated at a time when there
are ongoing sessions the trace recording session may be stopped immediately or
gracefully when the session ends.
#### 4.2.4.6 EPC Domain stopping mechanisms
In MME and SGW a Trace Recording Session shall be stopped when any of the
defined stop triggering events occur. If Trace Session deactivation is
received from its EM during the Trace Recording Session, the MME and the SGW
are allowed to finish tracing of the on-going procedures (e.g. session). In
this case the Trace Recording Session shall be stopped between the reception
of the Trace Session deactivation and the appropriate stop-triggering event.
### 4.2.5 Stopping a trace recording session - signalling based
#### 4.2.5.1 UTRAN stopping mechanisms
In an RNC the Trace Recording Session will always be the same as the Trace
Session as no triggering events are defined in UTRAN. Therefore a Trace
Recording Session shall always be stopped in an RNC when the RNC deactivates
the Trace Session. For more information on Trace Session deactivation in UTRAN
see subclause 4.1.4.2.
#### 4.2.5.2 PS Domain stopping mechanisms
A Trace Recording Session shall be stopped when the SGSN/GGSN/BM-SC detect any
of the stop triggering events.
However, if a SGSN receives a Trace Session deactivation either from its EM
(in case of tracing roaming subscribers) or from HSS (in case of tracing home
subscribers) during an ongoing Trace Recording Session, it may stop it
immediately or at any time until the occurrence of an appropriate stop-
triggering event.
A GGSN shall stop a Trace Recording Session when it receives a Trace Session
deactivation message (GTP- Update PDP Context Request and Trace Activity
Control is set to Trace Deactivation )from the SGSN or at any time until the
occurrence of an appropriate stop-triggering event.
A BM-SC shall stop a Trace Recording Session when it receives a Diameter Gmb
STR message from the GGSN or at any time until the occurrence of an
appropriate stop-triggering event.
When a Trace Recording Session is stopped in a SGSN, the SGSN shall send a
Trace Session deactivation message to the NEs where tracing was required, as
defined in the \"List of NE types\" configuration parameter, received in the
Trace Session activation message. The Trace Reference, used for the
deactivation procedure, shall be the same as used in the SGSN for the
activation of the Trace Session.
The following figure illustrates a successful case in tracing a PDP context,
when a Trace Recording Session is stopped. (Reference 3GPP TS 23.060 [6].)
NOTE: The activation to SGSN can come from EM-SGSN (in the figure just EM) or
from the HSS.
Figure 4.2.5.2.1: Stopping a Trace Recording Session for a PDP Context
(Signalling based) - PS domain
The following figure illustrates a successful case in tracing a MBMS context,
when a Trace Recording Session is stopped. (Reference 3GPP TS 23.246 [9].)
Figure 4.2.5.2.2: Stopping a Trace Recording Session for a MBMS Context
(Signalling based) - PS domain
#### 4.2.5.3 CS Domain stopping mechanisms
A Trace Recording Session shall be stopped when the MSC Server and MGW detect
any of the stop triggering events.
However, if a MSC Server receives a Trace Session deactivation either from its
EM (in case of tracing roaming subscribers) or from HSS (in case of tracing
home subscribers) during an ongoing Trace Recording Session, it may stop it
immediately or at any time until the occurrence of an appropriate stop-
triggering event.
A MGW shall stop a Trace Recording Session when it receives a MOD command with
trace package (indicating Trace Deactivation) from the MSC Server or at any
time until the occurrence of an appropriate stop-triggering event.
When a Trace Recording Session is stopped in a MSC Server, the MSC Server
shall send a Trace Session deactivation message to the NEs where tracing was
required, as defined in the \"List of NE types\" configuration parameter,
received in the Trace Session activation message. The Trace Reference, used
for the deactivation procedure, shall be the same as used in the MSC Server
for the activation of the Trace Session.
The following figure illustrates a successful case in tracing a call, when a
Trace Recording Session is stopped. (Reference 3GPP TS 23.205 [7] and 3GPP TS
23.108 [8].)
Figure 4.2.5.3.1: Stopping a Trace Recording Session (Signalling based) \- CS
domain
#### 4.2.5.4 Void
#### 4.2.5.5 Void
##### 4.2.5.5.1 Void
##### 4.2.5.5.2 Void
##### 4.2.5.5.3 Void
#### 4.2.5.6 Void
#### 4.2.5.7 E-UTRAN stopping mechanisms
In an eNB the Trace Recording Session will always be the same as the Trace
Session as no triggering events are defined in E-UTRAN. Therefore a Trace
Recording Session shall always be stopped in an eNB when the eNB deactivates
the Trace Session. For more information on Trace Session deactivation in
E-UTRAN, see subclause 4.1.4.8.
#### 4.2.5.8 EPC Domain stopping mechanisms
A Trace Recording Session shall be stopped when the MME/SGW/PGW detect any of
the stop triggering events. Detection of a stop trigger event results in
MME/SGW/PGW immediately stopping the trace recording session.
However, if an MME receives a Trace Session deactivation either from its EM
(in case of tracing roaming subscribers) or from HSS (in case of tracing home
subscribers) during an ongoing Trace Recording Session, it may stop it
immediately or at any time until the occurrence of an appropriate stop-
triggering event.
When a Trace Recording Session is stopped in an MME, the MME shall send a
S1-Deactivate Trace message to the eNB where tracing was required, as defined
in the \"List of NE types\" configuration parameter, received in the Trace
Session activation message. The Trace Reference, used for the deactivation
procedure, shall be the same as used in the MME for the activation of the
Trace Session. This only applies to the eNB as the PGW and SGW have their own
triggering criteria.
# 5 Trace control and configuration parameters
## 5.1 Triggering events (M)
This mandatory parameter defines when to start a Trace Recording Session and
which message shall be recorded first, when to stop a Trace Recording Session
and which message shall be recorded last respectively. The messages in the
start triggering event tables indicate the transaction to be recorded first
and the starting time of the Trace Recording Session within a Trace Session
for the traced MS/subscriber in the given NE.
The messages in the stop triggering event tables indicate the transaction to
be recorded last and the stopping time of the Trace Recording Session.
* * *
MSC Server Start triggering events Stop triggering events Mobile Originated
Call Receipt of the CM SERVICE-REQUEST message with service type set to
originating call establishment Reception of CC-RELEASE COMPLETE or CM-SERVICE
ABORT message Mobile Terminated Call Sending of PAGING REQUEST message
Reception of CC-RELEASE COMPLETE or CM-SERVICE ABORT message Mobile Originated
SMS Receipt of the CM SERVICE-REQUEST message with service type set to Short
Message service Transmission of RP-ACK/RP-NACK message Mobile Terminated SMS
Sending of PAGING REQUEST message Reception of RP-ACK/RP-NACK message IMSI
Attach Receipt of the MM-LOCATION UPDATING REQUEST message Sending of MM-
LOCATION-UPDATING ACCEPT or MM-LOCATION-UPDATING-REJECT message Location
Update Receipt of the MM-LOCATION UPDATING REQUEST message Sending of MM-
LOCATION-UPDATING ACCEPT or MM-LOCATION-UPDATING-REJECT message IMSI Detach
Receipt of the MM-IMSI DETACH INDICATION message Reception of MM-IMSI DETACH
INDICATION message Handover Receipt of the BSSMAP-HANDOVER-REQUIRED message in
case of GSM or RANAP-RELOCATION-REQUIRED message in case of UMTS Reception of
BSSMAP-CLEAR COMPLETE message in case of GSM or RANAP-IU RELEASE COMPLETE
message in case of UMTS or BSSMAP-HANDOVER FAILURE in case of GSM or RANAP-
RELOCATION FAILURE in case of UMTS. Supplementary Service TBD TBD
* * *
* * *
MGW Start triggering events Stop triggering events Context Reception of
H.248-ADD command, or reception of H.248 MODIFY command Sending of H.248-
SUBTRACT reply
* * *
* * *
SGSN Start triggering events Stop triggering events PDP Context Reception of
SM-ACTIVATE PDP CONTEXT REQUEST or sending SM-REQUEST PDP CONTEXT ACTIVATION
or reception of SM- MODIFY PDP CONTEXT REQUEST Reception or sending of SM-
DEACTIVATE PDP CONTEXT REQUEST or sending SM-ACTIVATE PDP CONTEXT REJECT
Mobile Originated SMS Receipt of RP-DATA message Transmission of RP-ACK/RP-
NACK message Mobile Terminated SMS Transmission of RP-DATA message Reception
of RP-ACK/RP-NACK message GPRS Attach Reception of MM-ATTACH-REQUEST Sending
MM-ATTACH-ACCEPT or MM-ATTACH-REJECT Routing Area Update Reception of MM-
ROUTING AREA UPDATE REQUEST Sending MM-ROUTING AREA UPDATE ACCEPT or MM-
ROUTING AREA UPDATE REJECT GPRS Detach Reception MM-DETACH REQUEST Reception
of MM-DETACH ACCEPT MBMS Context Sending SM-Request MBMS Context Activation or
reception of SM-Update MBMS Context Request Sending of SM-Deactivate MBMS
Context Request or sending of SM-Activate MBMS Context Reject
* * *
* * *
GGSN Start triggering events Stop triggering events PDP Context Reception of
GTP Create PDP context request or reception of GTP Update PDP context request
Sending of GTP Delete PDP context response MBMS Context Reception of GTP
Create MBMS Context Request or reception of GTP Update MBMS Context Request
Sending of GTP Delete MBMS Context Response
* * *
* * *
IMS Network Element Start triggering events Stop triggering events SIP session
or standalone transaction Reception of an initial SIP request that matches the
start trigger event configured by the Management System via the Trace IRP TS
32.442 [24] Sending of a SIP final response to a SIP BYE or other request
(originating or terminating), timer expiry or other event that matches the
stop trigger event configured by the Management System via the Trace IRP TS
32.442 [24].
* * *
* * *
* * *
* * *
BM-SC Start triggering events Stop triggering events MBMS Multicast service
activation Reception of MBMS Authorization Request Reception of Deactivation
Indication for user deactivation or sending of Session Stop Request for
service deactivation
* * *
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MME | Start triggering | Stop triggering | | | events | events | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Service request | Reception of NAS: | Reception of S11: | | | Service Request | Modify Bearer | | | message or S11: | Response or sending | | | Downlink Data | of NAS: SERVICE | | | Notification | REJECT | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE initiated PDN | Reception of NAS: | Reception of S11: | | connectivity | PDN connectivity | Create Session | | | Request message | Responsemessage | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Initial Attach, | Initial Attach: | Initial Attach: | | Tracking area | Reception of the | Reception of the | | update, Detach | NAS: ATTACH REQUEST | NAS: ATTACH COMPLETE | | | | or sending of the | | | Tracking Area | NAS: ATTACH REJECT | | | Update: Reception of | | | | the NAS: TRACKING | Tracking Area | | | AREA UPDATE REQUEST | Update: Reception of | | | | the NAS: TRACKING | | | Detach: Reception of | AREA UPDATE COMPLETE | | | the NAS: DETACH | or sending of NAS: | | | REQUEST or Detach | TRACKING AREA UPDATE | | | Notification or | REJECT | | | Cancel Location. | | | | | Detach: Reception or | | | Note: Cancel | sending of NAS: | | | location location | DETACH ACCEPT | | | shall not trigger | | | | new Trace Recording | | | | Session if it is | | | | sent as part of the | | | | tracking area update | | | | procedure. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE initiated PDN | Sending of the S11: | Reception of S11: | | disconnection | Delete Session | Delete Session | | | Request | Response | | | | | | | Note: The S11 Delete | Note: The S11 Delete | | | Session Request | Session Response | | | message shall not | message shall not | | | start a new Trace | stop the Trace | | | Recording Session if | Recording Session if | | | this message is sent | this message is sent | | | as part of the | as part of the | | | Attach/Tracking Area | Attach/Tracking Area | | | Up | Up | | | date/Detach/Handover | date/Detach/Handover | | | procedures. | procedures | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Bearer | Bearer Activation: | Bearer Activation: | | Activation/Modif | Reception of S11: | Sending of S11: | | ication/Deactivation | Create Bearer | Create Bearer | | | Request or NAS: | Response | | | BEARER RESOURCE | | | | MODIFICATION REQUEST | Bearer Modification: | | | | Reception of S11: | | | Bearer Modification: | Modify Bearer | | | Sending of S11: | Response or sending | | | Modify Bearer | of S11: Update | | | Request or reception | Bearer Response | | | of S11: Update | | | | Bearer Request | Bearer Deactivation: | | | | Sending of S11: | | | Bearer Deactivation: | Delete Bearer | | | Reception of S1AP: | Response | | | SAE Bearer Release | | | | Resource or NAS: | | | | BEARER RESOURCE | | | | MODIFICATION REQUEST | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Handover | Inter-eNB/Intra-MME: | Inter-eNB/Intra-MME: | | | Reception of S1AP: | Sending of S1AP: | | | Path Switch Request | Path Switch Request | | | | Acknowledge or S1AP: | | | Inter-eNB/Inter-MME: | Path Switch Request | | | Reception of S1AP: | Failure | | | Handover Required or | | | | S10: Forward | Inter-eNB/inter-MME: | | | Relocation Request | Sending of S10: | | | | Forward Relocation | | | | Complete Acknowledge | | | | or S1AP: Handover | | | | Preparation Failure | | | | or S1AP: Handover | | | | Cancel Acknowledge | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | SGW | Start triggering | Stop triggering | | | events | events | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PDN connection | Reception of the | Sending of the S11: | | creation | S11: Create Session | Create Session | | | Request | Response | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PDN connection | Reception of the | Sending of the S11: | | termination | S11: Delete Session | Delete Session | | | Request | Response | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Bearer | Bearer Activation: | Bearer Activation: | | Activation/Modif | Reception of the S5: | Sending of the S5: | | ication/Deactivation | Create Bearer | Create Bearer | | | Request or S11: | Response | | | Bearer Resource | | | | Command | Bearer Modification: | | | | Sending of the S11: | | | Bearer Modification: | Modify Bearer | | | Reception of the | Response or S5: | | | S11: Modify Bearer | Update Bearer | | | Request or S5: | Response | | | Update Bearer | | | | Request | Bearer Deletion: | | | | Sending of S5: | | | Bearer Deletion: | Delete Bearer | | | Reception of the | Response | | | S11: Deactivate | | | | Bearer Command or | | | | S5: Delete Bearer | | | | Request | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PGW | Start triggering | Stop triggering | | | events | events | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PDN connection | Reception of | Sending of S5: | | creation | S5(GTP): Create | Create Session | | | Session Request or | Response or Proxy | | | Proxy Binding Update | Binding Update Ack | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PDN connection | Reception of the S5: | Sending of the S5: | | termination | Delete Session | Delete Session | | | Request or Proxy | Response or Proxy | | | Binding Update | Binding Update ACK | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Bearer | Bearer Activation: | Bearer Activation: | | Activation/Modif | Sending of the S5: | Reception of the S5: | | ication/Deactivation | Create Bearer | Create Bearer | | | Request | Response | | Note: this is | | | | applicable only to | Bearer Modification: | Bearer Modification: | | GTP based S5 | Reception of the S5: | Sending of the S5: | | interface. | Modify Bearer | Modify Bearer | | | Request or sending | Response or | | | of the S5: Update | reception of the S5: | | | Bearer Request | Update Bearer | | | | Response | | | Bearer Deletion: | | | | Reception of the S5: | Bearer Deletion: | | | Deactivate Bearer | Reception of the S5: | | | Command or sending | Delete Bearer | | | of S5: Delete Bearer | Response | | | Request | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
* * *
Bit 8 Bit 7 Bit 6 Bit 5 Bit 4 Bit 3 Bit 2 Bit 1 MSC Server
MGW  
SGSN
GGSN  
BM-SC  
MME  
PGW SGW
* * *
* * *
MSC Server  
Bit 8 Bit 7 Bit 6 Bit 5 Bit 4 Bit 3 Bit 2 Bit 1 spare spare SS Handovers LU,
IMSI attach, IMSI detach MO and MT SMS MO and MT calls  
spare
* * *
* * *
MGW  
Bit 8 Bit 7 Bit 6 Bit 5 Bit 4 Bit 3 Bit 2 Bit 1 spare spare Context
* * *
* * *
SGSN  
Bit 8 Bit 7 Bit 6 Bit 5 Bit 4 Bit 3 Bit 2 Bit 1 spare MBMS Context RAU, GPRS
attach, GPRS detach MO and MT SMS PDP context  
Reserved
* * *
* * *
GGSN  
Bit 8 Bit 7 Bit 6 Bit 5 Bit 4 Bit 3 Bit 2 Bit 1 spare MBMS Context PDP Context
* * *
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | MME | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Bit 8 | Bit 7 | Bit 6 | Bit 5 | Bit 4 | Bit 3 | Bit 2 | Bit 1 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | spare | Spare | Han | B | UE | In | Se | UE | | | | dover | earer | init | itial | rvice | init | | | | | | iated | At | req | iated | | | | | Activ | PDN | tach, | uests | PDN | | | | | ation | dis | Tra | | co | | | | | | conne | cking | | nnect | | | | | Mo | ction | area | | ivity | | | | | dific | | up | | re | | | | | ation | | date, | | quest | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | Del | | etach | | | | | | | etion | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | PGW | SGW | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Bit 8 | Bit 7 | Bit 6 | Bit 5 | Bit 4 | Bit 3 | Bit 2 | Bit 1 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | spare | B | PDN | PDN | Spare | B | PDN | PDN | | | earer | conne | conne | | earer | conne | Conne | | | | ction | ction | | | ction | ction | | | Activ | t | cre | | Activ | t | cre | | | ation | ermin | ation | | ation | ermin | ation | | | | ation | | | | ation | | | | Mo | | | | Mo | | | | | dific | | | | dific | | | | | ation | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Del | | | | Del | | | | | etion | | | | etion | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
If a bit is set to 1 the given event shall be traced, i.e. a Trace Recording
Session shall be started for that event.
If a bit is set to 0 the given event should not be traced, i.e. Trace
Recording Session should not be started.
## 5.2 Void
  * 
## 5.3 Trace Depth (M)
This mandatory parameter defines how detailed information should be recorded
in the Network Element. The Trace Depth is a paremeter for Trace Session
level, i.e., the Trace Depth is the same for all of the NEs to be traced in
the same Trace Session.
The following table describes the values of the Trace Depth parameter.
* * *
Trace Depth Meaning Minimum Recording of some IEs in the signalling messages
plus any vendor specific extensions to this definition, in decoded format.
Medium Recording of some IEs in the signalling messages together with the
radio measurement IEs plus any vendor specific extensions to this definition,
in decoded format. Maximum Recording entire signalling messages plus any
vendor specific extensions to this definition, in encoded format.
MinimumWithoutVendorSpecificExtension Recording of some IEs in the signalling
messages in decoded format. MediumWithoutVendorSpecificExtension Recording of
some IEs in the signalling messages together with the radio measurement IEs in
decoded format. MaximumWithoutVendorSpecifcExtension Recording entire
signalling messages in encoded format.
* * *
At least one of Minimum, Medium or Maximum trace Depth shall be supported
depending on the NE type (see trace record description in TS 32.423 [3] for
details).
_Trace depth shall be an enumerated parameter with the following possible
values:_
> 0 --Minimum,
>
> 1 -- Medium
>
> 2 -- Maximum
>
> 3 -- MinimumWithoutVendorSpecificExtension
>
> 4 -- MediumWithoutVendorSpecificExtension
>
> 5 - MaximumWithoutVendorSpecificExtension
## 5.4 List of NE types (M)
This mandatory parameter defines the Network Element types where Trace Session
activation is needed. This parameter has meaning only in the signalling based
activation mechanism and it is used to determine whether the Trace Session
Activation shall be propagated further to other Network Elements. In the
management based activation mechanism, and in the signalling based activation
mechanism for IMS, this parameter is not needed.
The following list contains the Network Element types:
  * MSC Server
  * MGW
  * RNC
  * SGSN
  * GGSN
  * BM-SC
  * MME
  * SGW
  * PDN GW
  * eNB
* * *
Bit 8 Bit 7 Bit 6 Bit 5 Bit 4 Bit 3 Bit 2 Bit 1 SGW MME BM-SC RNC GGSN SGSN
MGW MSC-S spare eNB PDN GW
* * *
If a bit is set to 1, Trace Session to that Network Element shall be
activated.
If a bit is set to 0, Trace Session is not needed in that Network Element.
## 5.5 List of interfaces (O)
This is an optional parameter, which defines the interfaces to be recorded in
the Network Element.
The following list contains the list of interfaces in each Network Element:
  * MSC Server: A, Iu-CS, Mc and MAP (G, B, E, F, D, C) interfaces, CAP.
  * MGW: Mc, Nb-UP, Iu-UP.
  * RNC: Iu-CS, Iu-PS, Iur, Iub and Uu interfaces.
  * SGSN: Gb, Iu-PS, Gn, MAP (Gr, Gd, Gf), CAP (Ge), Gs, S6d, S4, S3 > interfaces.
  * GGSN: Gn, Gi and Gmb interfaces.
  * S-CSCF: Mw, Mg, Mr and Mi interfaces.
  * P-CSCF: Gm and Mw interfaces.
  * I-CSCF: Cx, Dx, Mg, Mw.
  * MRFC: Mp, Mr.
  * MGCF: Mg, Mj, Mn.
  * IBCF: Ix, Mx.
  * E-CSCF: Mw, Ml, Mm, Mi/Mg.
  * BGCF: Mi, Mj, Mk.
  * AS: Dh, Sh, ISC, Ut.
  * HSS: MAP (C, D, Gc, Gr), Cx, S6d interfaces, S6a and location and > subscription information.
  * BM-SC: Gmb interface.
  * MME: S1-MME, S3, S6a, S10, S11
  * SGW: S4, S5, S8, S11, Gxc
  * PDN GW: S2a, S2b, S2c, S5, S6b, Gx, S8, SGi
  * eNB: S1-MME, X2, Uu
NOTE: For IMS Network Elements other than P-CSCF and S-CSCF the interfaces
included in the Trace Job for a particular type of IMS session are configured
in the Management System via the Trace IRP (TS 32.442) [24].
* * *
Bit 8 Bit 7 Bit 6 Bit 5 Bit 4 Bit 3 Bit 2 Bit 1 MSC Server
MGW  
SGSN
GGSN  
RNC  
BM-SC  
MME  
SGW  
PDN GW  
eNB
* * *
* * *
MSC Server  
Bit 8 Bit 7 Bit 6 Bit 5 Bit 4 Bit 3 Bit 2 Bit 1 CAP MAP-F MAP-E MAP-B MAP-G Mc
Iu A spare MAP-C MAP-D
* * *
* * *
SGSN  
Bit 8 Bit 7 Bit 6 Bit 5 Bit 4 Bit 3 Bit 2 Bit 1 Ge Gs MAP-Gf MAP-Gd MAP-Gr Gn
Iu Gb spare S3 S4 S6d
* * *
* * *
MGW  
Bit 8 Bit 7 Bit 6 Bit 5 Bit 4 Bit 3 Bit 2 Bit 1 Spare Iu-UP Nb-UP Mc
* * *
* * *
GGSN  
Bit 8 Bit 7 Bit 6 Bit 5 Bit 4 Bit 3 Bit 2 Bit 1 spare Gmb Gi Gn
* * *
* * *
RNC  
Bit 8 Bit 7 Bit 6 Bit 5 Bit 4 Bit 3 Bit 2 Bit 1 Spare Uu Iub Iur Iu
* * *
* * *
BM-SC  
Bit 8 Bit 7 Bit 6 Bit 5 Bit 4 Bit 3 Bit 2 Bit 1 spare Gmb
* * *
* * *
MME  
Bit 8 Bit 7 Bit 6 Bit 5 Bit 4 Bit 3 Bit 2 Bit 1 Spare S11 S10 S6a S3 S1-MME
* * *
* * *
SGW  
Bit 8 Bit 7 Bit 6 Bit 5 Bit 4 Bit 3 Bit 2 Bit 1 Spare Gxc S11 S8b S5 S4
* * *
* * *
PDN GW  
Bit 8 Bit 7 Bit 6 Bit 5 Bit 4 Bit 3 Bit 2 Bit 1 SGi S8b Gx S6b S5 S2c S2b S2a
* * *
* * *
eNB  
Bit 8 Bit 7 Bit 6 Bit 5 Bit 4 Bit 3 Bit 2 Bit 1 Spare Uu X2 S1-MME
* * *
If a bit is set to 1, the interface should be traced in the given Network
Element.
If a bit is set to 0, that interface should not be traced in the given Network
Element.
## 5.6 Trace Reference (M)
The Trace Reference parameter shall be globally unique, therefore the Trace
Reference shall compose as follows:
MCC+MNC+Trace ID, where the MCC and MNC are coming with the Trace activation
request from the EM/NM to identify one PLMN containing the EM/NM, and Trace ID
is a 3 byte Octet String.
NOTE: Trace ID referred here is the same as Trace reference in previous
releases
NOTE: The MCC+MNC being part of the Trace Reference from Rel-8 onwards (e.g.
ignored by Rel-6 / Rel-7 UTRAN Network Elements), the uniqueness of the Trace
Reference may not be guaranteed with Rel-6 / Rel-7 Network Element(s) involved
in the Trace.
## 5.7 Trace Recording Session Reference (M)
This parameter shall be a 2 byte Octet String.
## 5.8 Trace Collection Entity Address
This parameter shall contain the address to the Trace Collection Entity. The
address is an IP address.
## 5.9 IP Address of Trace Collection Entity (M)
This is a mandatory parameter which defines the IP address to which the Trace
records shall be transferred. IPv4 and/or IPv6 address(es) may be signalled.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Trace failure notification file format
# A.1 Global structure
See 3GPP TS 32.615 [27]
The following XML namespaces are potentially used in Trace failure
notification XML files:
\- traceFailureNotification.xsd (see A.5)
# A.2 XML elements fileHeader and fileFooter
## A.2.1 XML elements fileHeader
See 3GPP TS 32.615 [27]
## A.2.2 XML element fileFooter
See 3GPP TS 32.615 [27]
# A.3 Trace failure notification specific XML elements
See A.5.
# A.4 Trace IRP XML File Name Conventions
For Trace failure notification XML File Name Conventions the generic file name
definitions as specified by the FT IRP apply (see [28]).
# A.5 Trace failure notification file XML schema
\
\
\
\
\
\\ \\ \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#