# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
**TS 32.432:** \"**Performance measurement: File format definition\";**
**TS 32.435: \"Performance measurement: eXtensible Markup Language (XML) file
format definition\";**
TS 32.436: \"Performance measurement: Abstract Syntax Notation 1 (ASN.1) file
format definition\".
The present document is part of a set of specifications, which describe the
requirements and information model necessary for the standardised Operation,
Administration and Maintenance (OA&M) of a multi-vendor 3G PLMN.
During the lifetime of a PLMN, its logical and physical configuration will
undergo changes of varying degrees and frequencies in order to optimise the
utilisation of the network resources. These changes will be executed through
network configuration management activities and/or network engineering, see
3GPP TS 32.600 [4].
Many of the activities involved in the daily operation and future network
planning of a PLMN network require data on which to base decisions. This data
refers to the load carried by the network and the grade of service offered. In
order to produce this data performance measurements are executed in the NEs,
which comprise the network. The data can then be transferred to an external
system, e.g. an Operations System (OS) in TMN terminology, for further
evaluation. The purpose of the present document and the other related 3GPP TSs
listed above is to describe the mechanisms involved in the collection of the
data.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the XML file format of performance measurement
results whose semantics is defined in 3GPP TS 32.432 [5].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Concept and requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.432: \"Telecommunication management; **Performance measurement:
File format definition** \".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[7] W3C REC-xml-20001006: \"Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Second
Edition)\".
[8] W3C REC-xmlschema-0-20010502: \"XML Schema Part 0: Primer\".
[9] W3C REC-xmlschema-1-20010502: \"XML Schema Part 1: Structures\".
[10] W3C REC-xmlschema-2-20010502: \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
[11] W3C REC-xml-names-19990114: \"Namespaces in XML\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**network Element Manager (EM):** provides a package of end-user functions for
management of a set of closely related types of Network Elements. These
functions can be divided into two main categories:
\- Element Management Functions for management of Network Elements on an
individual basis. These are basically the same functions as supported by the
corresponding local terminals.
\- Sub-Network Management Functions that are related to a network model for a
set of Network Elements constituting a clearly defined sub-network, which may
include relations between the Network Elements. This model enables additional
functions on the sub-network level (typically in the areas of network topology
presentation, alarm correlation, service impact analysis and circuit
provisioning).
**Network Manager (NM):** provides a package of end-user functions with the
responsibility for the management of a network, mainly as supported by the
EM(s) but it may also involve direct access to the Network Elements. All
communication with the network is based on open and well-standardised
interfaces supporting management of multi-vendor and multi-technology Network
Elements.
**Operations System (OS):** generic management system, independent of its
location level within the management hierarchy.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
3G 3^rd^ Generation
EM Element Manager
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
IRP Integration Reference Point
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
PM Performance Management
# 4 XML file format definition
This clause describes the format of measurement result files that can be
transferred from the network (NEs or EM) to the NM. The XML file format
definition is based on XML schema (see [8], [9], [10] and [11]).
The XML file format definitions implement the measurement result structure and
parameters defined in clauses 5.2 and 5.3 of 3GPP TS 32.401 [3].
## 4.1 Mapping table
Table 4.1 maps the file content items in the 3GPP TS 32.432([5]) document to
those used in the XML schema based file format definitions. XML tag attributes
are useful where data values bind tightly to its parent element. They have
been used where appropriate.
Table 4.1 Mapping of File Content Items to XML tags
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | File Content Item | XML schema based XML | Description | | | tag | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measDataCollection | measCollecFile | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measFileHeader | fileHeader | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measData | measData | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measFileFooter | fileFooter | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | fileFormatVersion | fileHeader | | | | fileFormatVersion | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | senderName | fileHeader dnPrefix\ | For the XML schema | | | and\ | based XML format, | | | fileSender localDn | the DN is split into | | | | the DN prefix and | | | | the Local DN (LDN) | | | | (see 3GPP TS 32.300 | | | | [6]). XML | | | | attribute | | | | specification | | | | \"dnPrefix\" may be | | | | absent in case the | | | | DN prefix is not | | | | configured in the | | | | sender. XML | | | | attribute | | | | specification | | | | \"localDn\" may be | | | | absent in case the | | | | LDN is not | | | | configured in the | | | | sender. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | senderType | fileSender | For the XML schema | | | elementType | based XML format, | | | | XML attribute | | | | specification | | | | \"elementType\" may | | | | be absent in case | | | | the \"senderType\" | | | | is not configured in | | | | the sender. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vendorName | fileHeader | For the XML schema | | | vendorName | based XML format, | | | | XML attribute | | | | specification | | | | \"vendorName\" may | | | | be absent in case | | | | the \"vendorName\" | | | | is not configured in | | | | the sender. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | collectionBeginTime | measCollec beginTime | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | neId | managedElement | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | neUserName | managedElement | For the XML schema | | | userLabel | based XML format, | | | | XML attribute | | | | specification | | | | \"userLabel\" may be | | | | absent in case the | | | | \"nEUserName\" is | | | | not configured in | | | | the CM applications. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | neDistinguishedName | fileHeader dnPrefix\ | For the XML schema | | | and\ | based XML format, | | | managedElement | the DN is split into | | | localDn | the DN prefix and | | | | the Local DN (LDN) | | | | (see 3GPP TS 32.300 | | | | [6]). XML | | | | attribute | | | | specification | | | | \"localDn\" may be | | | | absent in case the | | | | LDN is not | | | | configured in the CM | | | | applications. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | neSoftwareVersion | managedElement | For the XML schema | | | swVersion | based XML format, | | | | XML attribute | | | | specification | | | | \"swVersion\" may be | | | | absent in case the | | | | \ | | | | "nESoftwareVersion\" | | | | is not configured in | | | | the CM applications. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measInfo | measInfo | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measInfoId | measInfoId | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measTimeStamp | granPeriod endTime | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | jobId | job jobId | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | granularityPeriod | granPeriod duration | For the XML schema | | | | based XML format, | | | | the value of XML | | | | attribute | | | | specification | | | | \"duration\" shall | | | | use the truncated | | | | representation | | | | \"PT _n_ S\" (see | | | | [10]). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | reportingPeriod | repPeriod duration | For the XML schema | | | | based XML format, | | | | the value of XML | | | | attribute | | | | specification | | | | \"duration\" shall | | | | use the truncated | | | | representation | | | | \"PT _n_ S\" (see | | | | [10]). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measTypes | measTypes\ | For the XML schema | | | or\ | based XML format, | | | measType | depending on | | | | sender\'s choice for | | | | optional positioning | | | | presence, either XML | | | | element | | | | \"measTypes\" or XML | | | | elements | | | | \"measType\" will be | | | | used. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measValues | measValue | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measObjInstId | measValue measObjLdn | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measResults | measResults\ | For the XML schema | | | or | based XML format, | | | | depending on | | | r | sender\'s choice for | | | | optional positioning | | | | presence, either XML | | | | element | | | | \"measResults\" or | | | | XML elements \"r\" | | | | will be used. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | suspectFlag | suspect | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | timeStamp | measCollec endTime | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | There is no | measType p | An optional | | corresponding File | | positioning XML | | Content Item. | | attribute | | | | specification of XML | | | | element \"measType\" | | | | (XML schema based), | | | | used to identify a | | | | measurement type for | | | | the purpose of | | | | correlation to a | | | | result. The value of | | | | this XML attribute | | | | specification is | | | | expected to be a | | | | non-zero, | | | | non-negative integer | | | | value that is unique | | | | for each instance of | | | | XML element | | | | \"measType\" that is | | | | contained within the | | | | measurement data | | | | collection file. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | There is no | r p | An optional | | corresponding File | | positioning XML | | Content Item. | | attribute | | | | specification of XML | | | | element \"r\", used | | | | to correlate a | | | | result to a | | | | measurement type. | | | | The value of this | | | | XML attribute | | | | specification should | | | | match the value of | | | | XML attribute | | | | specification \"p\" | | | | of the corresponding | | | | XML element | | | | \"measType\" (XML | | | | schema based). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 4.2 XML schema based XML file format definition
### 4.2.1 Measurement collection data file XML diagram
Figure 4.1 describes the XML element structure of the measurement collection
data file.
{width="6.795138888888889in" height="7.383333333333334in"}
Figure 4.1: XML diagram of the measurement collection data file
### 4.2.2 Measurement collection data file XML schema
The following XML schema measCollec.xsd is the schema for measurement
collection data XML files:
\\ \ \\ \ \\ \
\\ \ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \
\\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \ \\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\
\\ \ \
### 4.2.3 Measurement collection data file XML header
The following header shall be used in actual XML measurement result files (cf.
Annex A for examples):
\\ \\ \
###### ## Annex A (informative): Examples
# A.1 XML schema based XML measurement report file without use of optional
positioning attributes on measurement types and results
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\attTCHSeizures succTCHSeizures attImmediateAssignProcs
succImmediateAssignProcs\
\
\234 345 567 789\
\
\
\890 901 123 234\
\
\
\456 567 678 789\
\true\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
# A.2 XML schema based XML measurement report file with use of optional
positioning attributes on measurement types and results
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\attTCHSeizures\
\succTCHSeizures\
\attImmediateAssignProcs\
\succImmediateAssignProcs\
\
\234\
\345\
\567\
\789\
\
\
\890\
\901\
\123\
\234\
\
\
\456\
\567\
\678\
\789\
\true\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
# A.3 XML schema based XML measurement report file with use of optional
measInfoId attribute
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\MM.AttGprsAttach MM.SuccGprsAttach MM. AbortedGprsAttach
MM.AttIntraSgsnRaUpdate\
\
\10 20 30 40\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\MM.AttCombiAttach MM.SuccCombiAttach MM.
MM.AbortedCombiAttachMM.AttCombiDetachMs\
\
\10 20 30 40\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\MM.AttPsPagingProcIu MM.SuccPsPagingProcIu\
\
\25 25\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex B (informative): XML schema electronic files
The electronic files corresponding to the normative XML schemas defined in the
present document are available in native form in the following archive:
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.435/schema/32435-800-XMLSchema.zip
#