# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.441 \"Trace **Management Integration Reference Point (IRP):**
Requirements\".
32.442 \"Trace Management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information
Service (IS)\".
**32.443 \"Trace Management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object
Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".**
32.445 \"Trace Management Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup
Language (XML) file format definition\".
The present document is part of a TS-family which describes the requirements
and information model necessary for the Telecommunication Management (TM) of
3G systems. The TM principles and TM architecture are specified in 3GPP TS
32.101 [2] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [3].
Trace provides very detailed information on call level for a specific
subscriber or MS. This data is an additional information source to Performance
Measurements and allows deeper investigations in problems solving or in case
of optimization.
# 1 Scope
This Solution Set specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.442 V8.0.0.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.441: \"Telecommunication management; Trace Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.311: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.303: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request
Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.442: \"Telecommunication management; Trace Management
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management: Information Service (IS)\".
[9] OMG TC Document telecom/98-11-01: \"OMG Notification Service\".
http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/
[10] 3GPP TS 32.421: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and Equipment
Trace; Concept and requirements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.421 [10], 3GPP TS 32.441
[3] and the following apply:
**IRP document version number string (or \"IRPVersion\"):** See 3GPP TS 32.311
[4].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
DN Distinguished Name
EM Element Manager
IDL Interface Definition Language
IS Information Service
MOC Managed Object Class
NE Network Element
OMG Object Management Group
SS Solution Set
# 4 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of TraceIRP is specified in 3GPP TS 32.441
[3].
This clause specifies features that are specific to the CORBA SS.
## 4.1 Notifications
Notifications are sent according to the Notification IRP: CORBA SS (see 3GPP
TS 32.303 [5]).
The contents of the TraceIRP notifications are defined in the present
document.
## 4.2 Syntax for distinguished names and versions
The format of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [6].
The version of this IRP is represented as a string (see also clause 3 for
versions).
# 5 Mapping
## 5.1 Operation and Notification mapping
TraceIRP: IS 3GPP TS 32.442 [7] defines semantics of operation and
notification visible across the TraceIRP.\ Table 5.1.1 indicates mapping of
these operations and notifications to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table 5.1.1: Mapping from IS Operations and Notification to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operations/ notification 3GPP TS 32.442 [7] SS Method Qualifier
activateTraceJob activate_trace_job M deactivateTraceJob deactivate_trace_job
M listTraceJob list_trace_job M listActivatedTraceJob list_activated_trace_job
M notifyTraceRecordingSessionFailure push_structured_events(See subclause 6.1)
O notifyTraceSessionLocalActivation push_structured_events (See subclause 6.1)
O
* * *
## 5.2 Operation parameter mapping
The TraceIRP: IS 3GPP TS 32.442 [7] defines semantics of parameters carried in
operations across the TraceIRP. The following tables indicate the mapping of
these parameters, as per operation, to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table 5.2.1: Mapping from IS activateTraceJob parameters to SS equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | iocInstance | KernelCmConstDefs::DN | M | | | moInstance | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | listOfInterfaces | TraceIRPCo | O | | | nstDefs::ListOfInterfaces | | | | list_of_interfaces | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | listOfNeTypes | TraceIR | CM | | | PConstDefs::ListOfNeTypes | | | | list_of_ne_types | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | traceDepth | Trac | M | | | eIRPConstDefs::TraceDepth | | | | trace_depth | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | traceReference | TraceIRP | M | | | ConstDefs::TraceReference | | | | trace_reference | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | traceTarget | Trace | M | | | IRPConstDefs::TraceTarget | | | | trace_target | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | triggeringEvent | TraceIRPConstDefs:: | CO | | | TriggeringEvent | | | | triggering_event | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | tra | TraceIRPConstDefs::Tra | CM | | ceCollectionEntityAddress | ceCollectionEntityAddress | | | | trace_co | | | | llection_entity_address | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | unsupportedList | TraceIRPConstDefs:: | M | | | UnsupportedList | | | | unsupportedList | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Return value of type | M | | | TraceIRPConstDefs::Result | | | | | | | | Exception: | | | | | | | | ActivateTraceJob, | | | | InvalidTraceDepth, | | | | InvalidTraceTarget, | | | | NotUniqueTraceReference | | | | | | | | ManagedGenericIRP | | | | System::InvalidParameter, | | | | ManagedGenericIRPSyst | | | | em::ParameterNotSupported | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 5.2.2: Mapping from IS deactivateTraceJob parameters to SS equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | traceReference | TraceIRPConstDefs:: | M | | | TraceReference | | | | trace_reference | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | traceTarget | Trace | M | | | IRPConstDefs::TraceTarget | | | | trace_target | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Return value of type | M | | | TraceIRPConstDefs::Result | | | | | | | | Exception: | | | | | | | | DeactivateTraceJob, | | | | NotUniqueTraceReference | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | trace | TraceIRPConstDefs::Trace | CM | | RecordingSessionReference | RecordingSessionReference | | | | trace_reco | | | | rding_session_reference | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 5.2.3: Mapping from IS listTraceJob parameters to SS equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | traceReference | TraceIRP | M | | | ConstDefs::TraceReference | | | | trace_reference | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Return value of type | M | | | TraceIRPConstDefs::Result | | | | | | | | Exception: | | | | | | | | ListTraceJob, | | | | NotUniqueTraceReference | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | iocInstance | KernelCmConstDefs::DN | M | | | moInstance | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | listOfInterfaces | TraceIRPCo | O | | | nstDefs::ListOfInterfaces | | | | list_of_interfaces | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | traceDepth | Trac | M | | | eIRPConstDefs::TraceDepth | | | | trace_depth | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | trace | TraceIRPConstDefs::Trace | CM | | RecordingSessionReference | RecordingSessionReference | | | | trace_reco | | | | rding_session_reference | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | traceTarget | Trace | M | | | IRPConstDefs::TraceTarget | | | | trace_target | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | triggeringEvent | TraceIRPC | O | | | onstDefs::TriggeringEvent | | | | triggering_event | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | tra | TraceIRPConstDefs::Tra | CM | | ceCollectionEntityAddress | ceCollectionEntityAddress | | | | trace_co | | | | llection_entity_address | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 5.2.4: Mapping from IS listActivatedTraceJobs parameters to SS
equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier traceReferenceList
TraceMIRPConstDefs::TraceReferenceList trace_reference_list M status Return
value of type TraceIRPConstDefs::Result M
* * *
## 5.3 Notification parameter mapping
The TraceIRP: IS 3GPP TS 32.442 [7] defines semantics of parameters carried in
notifications. The following table indicates the mapping of these parameters
to their OMG CORBA Structured Event (defined in OMG Notification Service [9])
equivalents. The composition of OMG Structured Event, as defined in the OMG
Notification Service [9], is:
Header
Fixed Header
domain_name
type_name
event_name
Variable Header
Body
filterable_body_fields
remaining_body
The following tables list all OMG Structured Event attributes in the second
column. The first column identifies the TraceIRP: IS 3GPP TS 32.442 [7]
defined notification parameters.
Table 5.3.1: Mapping for notifyTraceRecordingSessionFailure
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | IS Parameters | OMG CORBA | Qualifier | Comment | | | Structured | | | | | Event attribute | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | domain_name | M | It carries the | | corresponding | | | IRP document | | IS attribute. | | | version number | | | | | string. See | | | | | subclause 3.1. | | | | | | | | | | It indicates | | | | | the syntax and | | | | | semantics of | | | | | the Structured | | | | | Event as | | | | | defined by the | | | | | present | | | | | document. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | n | type_name | M | This is | | otificationType | | | constant string | | | | | \"notifyT | | | | | raceRecordingSe | | | | | ssionFailure\". | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | event_name | M | It carries no | | corresponding | | | information. | | IS attribute. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | Variable Header | | | | corresponding | | | | | IS attribute. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | objectClass, | One NV pair of | M | NV stands for | | objectInstance | filterabl | | name-value | | | e_body_fields | | pair. Order | | | | | arrangement of | | | | | NV pairs is not | | | | | significant. | | | | | The name of | | | | | NV-pair is | | | | | always encoded | | | | | in string. | | | | | | | | | | Name of this NV | | | | | pair is the | | | | | MANAGED_O | | | | | BJECT_INSTANCE | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notificationId | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | N | | | | | OTIFICATION_ID | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a long. | | | | | See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | eventTime | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | EVENT_TIME of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | IRPTime. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | systemDN | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | SYSTEM_DN of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | traceRecordingS | One NV pair of | O | Name of NV pair | | essionReference | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | TRACE\ | | | | | _RECORDING_SES | | | | | SION_REFERENCE | | | | | of | | | | | TraceIRPNotif | | | | | ications::notif | | | | | yTraceRecording | | | | | SessionFailure. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | TraceRecordingS | | | | | essionReference | | | | | of module | | | | | Tra | | | | | ceIRPConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | traceReference | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | T | | | | | RACE_REFERENCE | | | | | of | | | | | TraceIRPNotif | | | | | ications::notif | | | | | yTraceRecording | | | | | SessionFailure. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | TraceReference | | | | | of module | | | | | Tra | | | | | ceIRPConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | reason | One NV pair of | O | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the REASON | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | traceIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | notif | | | | | yTraceRecording | | | | | SessionFailure. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
Table 5.3.2: Mapping for notifyTraceSessionLocalActivation
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | IS Parameters | OMG CORBA | Qualifier | Comment | | | Structured | | | | | Event attribute | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | domain_name | M | It carries the | | corresponding | | | IRP document | | IS attribute. | | | version number | | | | | string. See | | | | | subclause 3.1. | | | | | | | | | | It indicates | | | | | the syntax and | | | | | semantics of | | | | | the Structured | | | | | Event as | | | | | defined by the | | | | | present | | | | | document. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | n | type_name | M | This is | | otificationType | | | constant string | | | | | \"notifyThr | | | | | esholdMonitorOb | | | | | jectCreation\". | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | event_name | M | It carries no | | corresponding | | | information. | | IS attribute. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | Variable Header | | | | corresponding | | | | | IS attribute. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | objectClass, | One NV pair of | M | NV stands for | | objectInstance | filterabl | | name-value | | | e_body_fields | | pair. Order | | | | | arrangement of | | | | | NV pairs is not | | | | | significant. | | | | | The name of | | | | | NV-pair is | | | | | always encoded | | | | | in string. | | | | | | | | | | Name of this NV | | | | | pair is the | | | | | MANAGED_O | | | | | BJECT_INSTANCE | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notificationId | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining body | | is the | | | | | N | | | | | OTIFICATION_ID | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a long. | | | | | See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | eventTime | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | EVENT_TIME of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | IRPTime. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | systemDN | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | SYSTEM_DN of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | traceReference | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | T | | | | | RACE_REFERENCE | | | | | of module | | | | | TraceIRPNoti | | | | | fications::noti | | | | | fyTraceSessionL | | | | | ocalActivation. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | TraceReference | | | | | of module | | | | | Tra | | | | | ceIRPConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | traceTarget | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | TRACE_TARGET | | | | | of module | | | | | TraceIRPNoti | | | | | fications::noti | | | | | fyTraceSessionL | | | | | ocalActivation. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | TraceTarget of | | | | | module | | | | | Tra | | | | | ceIRPConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | iOCInstance | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | IOC_INSTANCE | | | | | of module | | | | | TraceIRPNoti | | | | | fications::noti | | | | | fyTraceSessionL | | | | | ocalActivation. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | MOClassName of | | | | | module | | | | | Tra | | | | | ceIRPConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
Table 5.3.3: Mapping for notifyTraceSessionIdentities
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | IS Parameters | OMG CORBA | Qualifier | Comment | | | Structured | | | | | Event attribute | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | domain_name | M | It carries the | | corresponding | | | IRP document | | IS attribute. | | | version number | | | | | string. See | | | | | subclause 3.1. | | | | | | | | | | It indicates | | | | | the syntax and | | | | | semantics of | | | | | the Structured | | | | | Event as | | | | | defined by the | | | | | present | | | | | document. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | n | type_name | M | This is | | otificationType | | | constant string | | | | | \"n | | | | | otifyTraceSessi | | | | | onIdentities\". | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | event_name | M | It carries no | | corresponding | | | information. | | IS attribute. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | Variable Header | | | | corresponding | | | | | IS attribute. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | objectClass, | One NV pair of | M | NV stands for | | objectInstance | filterabl | | name-value | | | e_body_fields | | pair. Order | | | | | arrangement of | | | | | NV pairs is not | | | | | significant. | | | | | The name of | | | | | NV-pair is | | | | | always encoded | | | | | in string. | | | | | | | | | | Name of this NV | | | | | pair is the | | | | | MANAGED_O | | | | | BJECT_INSTANCE | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notificationId | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining body | | is the | | | | | N | | | | | OTIFICATION_ID | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a long. | | | | | See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | eventTime | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | EVENT_TIME of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | IRPTime. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | systemDN | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | SYSTEM_DN of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | traceReference | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | T | | | | | RACE_REFERENCE | | | | | of module | | | | | TraceIRPNot | | | | | ifications::not | | | | | ifyTraceSession | | | | | LocalActivation | | | | | . | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | TraceReference | | | | | of module | | | | | Tra | | | | | ceIRPConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | traceRecordingS | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | essionReference | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | TRACE\ | | | | | _RECORDING_SES | | | | | SION_REFERENCE | | | | | of | | | | | TraceI | | | | | RPNotifications | | | | | ::notifyTraceSe | | | | | ssionIdentities | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | TraceReference | | | | | of module | | | | | Tra | | | | | ceIRPConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | traceTarget | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | TRACE_TARGET | | | | | of module | | | | | TraceIR | | | | | PNotifications: | | | | | :notifyTraceSes | | | | | sionIdentities. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | TraceTarget of | | | | | module | | | | | Tra | | | | | ceIRPConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | iOCInstance | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | IOC_INSTANCE | | | | | of module | | | | | TraceIR | | | | | PNotifications: | | | | | :notifyTraceSes | | | | | sionIdentities. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | MOClassName of | | | | | module | | | | | Tra | | | | | ceIRPConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
# 6 TraceIRPNotification Interface
OMG CORBA Notification push operation is used to realise the notification of
TraceIRP Notifications. All the notifications in this interface are
implemented using this push_structured_event method.
## 6.1 Method push (M)
module CosNotifyComm {
...
Interface SequencePushConsumer : NotifyPublish {
void push_structured_events(
in CosNotification::EventBatch notifications)
raises( CosEventComm::Disconnected);
...
}; // SequencePushConsumer
...
}; // CosNotifyComm
NOTE 1: The push_structured_events method takes an input parameter of type
EventBatch as defined in the OMG CosNotification module (OMG Notification
Service [9]). This data type is the same as a sequence of Structured Events.
Upon invocation, this parameter will contain a sequence of Structured Events
being delivered to IRPManager by IRPAgent to which it is connected.
NOTE 2: The maximum number of events that will be transmitted within a single
invocation of this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide configuration
parameter.
NOTE 3: The amount of time the supplier (IRPAgent) of a sequence of Structured
Events will accumulate individual events into the sequence before invoking
this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide configuration parameter as well.
NOTE 4: IRPAgent may push EventBatch with only one Structured Event.
###### ## Annex A (normative): IDL specifications
# A.1 IDL specification (file name \"TraceIRPConstDefs.idl\")
//File: TraceIRPConstDefs.idl
#ifndef _Trace_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#define _Trace_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: TraceIRPConstDefs
This module contains commonly used definitions for Trace IRP
===============================================================
*/
module TraceIRPConstDefs
{
enum Result Enum {OK, FAILURE, PARTIAL_SUCCESS};
typedef struct TraceReference
{ short mcc;
short mnc;
unsigned long traceId;
};
typedef sequence\ TraceReferenceList;
typedef unsigned long TraceRecordingSessionReference;
typedef string TraceCollectionEntityAddress;
/* the values of the InterfaceBitmap is coming from the ListOfInterfaces trace
parameter definition in 3GPP TS 32.422. The InterfaceBitmap shall carry the
decimal value that is calculated from the bitmap, defined in TS 32.422.*/
typedef struct Interfaces
{ NeType NetworkElement;
Integer InterfaceBitmap;
};
typedef sequence \ ListofInterfaces;
/*
ListOfInterfacesOptional is a type carrying a conditional parameter.
The boolean shall be TRUE, if the operation request uses this parameter. In
this case the value is present. Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union ListOfInterfacesOptional switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: ListOfInterfaces value;
};
enum NeType {MSC_SERVER,MGW,RNC,SGSN,GGSN,BM_SC,eNB,MME,SGW,PGW };
typedef sequence\ ListOfNeTypes;
enum TraceDepth {MINIMUM, MEDIUM, MAXIMUM, VENDORMINIMUM, VENDORMEDIUM,
VENDORMAXIMUM};
enum TraceTarget {IMSI, IMEI, IMEISV, PUBLIC_ID, PRIVATE_ID, UTRAN_CELL,
E-UTRAN_CELL };
/* the values of the EventBitmap is coming from the TriggeringEvent trace
parameter definition in 3GPP TS 32.422. The EventBitmap shall carry the
decimal value that is calculated from the triggereing event bitmap as defined
in TS 32.422.*/
typedef struct Events
{ NeType NetworkElement;
Integer EventBitmap;
};
typedef sequence \ TriggeringEvent;
/*
TriggeringEventConditional is a type carrying a conditional parameter.
The boolean shall be TRUE, if the operation the condition is fulfilled and the
request uses this parameter. In this case the value is present. Otherwise the
value is absent.
*/
union TriggeringEventConditional switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: TriggeringEvent value;
};
enum UnsupportedItem {MANAGED_ENTITY, TRACE_DEPTH, LIST_OF_INTERFACES,
TRACE_TARGET, REASON};
typedef sequence\ UnsupportedList;
/**
* This block identifies attributes which are included as part of the
* notifications defined within TraceIRP. These attribute values should not
* clash with those defined for the attributes of notification
* header (see IDL of Notification IRP).
*/
interface AttributeNameValue
{
const string TRACE_RECORDING_SESSION_REFERENCE =
\"TRACE_RECORDING_SESSION_REFERENCE\";
const string TRACE_REFERENCE = \"TRACE_REFERENCE\";
const string TRACE_TARGET = \"TRACE_TARGET\";
const string MO_INSTANCE = \"MO_INSTANCE\";
const string REASON = \"REASON\";
};
};
# A.2 IDL specification (file name "TraceIRPSystem.idl")
//File: TraceIRPSystem.idl
#ifndef _TRACE_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
#define _TRACE_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
#include \
#include \
#include \#include \
//This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* Module: TraceIRPSystem
This module contains the specification of all operations of Trace IRP Agent.
=============================================================================
*/
module TraceIRP
{
exception ActivateTraceJob { string reason; };
exception NotUniqueTraceReference { string reason; };
exception DeactivateTraceJob { string reason; };
exception ListTraceJob { string reason; };
exception ListActivatedTraceJob { string reason; };
interface TraceIRP
{
/**
* Request to activate a TraceJob through Itf-N.
**/
TraceIRPConstDefs::ResultEnum activateTraceJob (
in KernelCmConstDefs::DN moInstance,
in TraceIRPConstDefs::ListOfInterfacesOptional listOfInterfaces,
in TraceIRPConstDefs::ListOfNeTypes listOfNeTypes,
in TraceIRPConstDefs::TraceDepth traceDepth,
in TraceIRPConstDefs::TraceReference traceReference,
in TraceIRPConstDefs::TraceTarget traceTarget,
in TraceIRPConstDefs::TriggeringEventConditional triggeringEvent,
in TraceIRPConstDefs::TraceCollectionEntityAddress
traceCollectionEntityAddress,
out TraceIRPConstDefs:: UnsupportedList unsupportedList
)
raises (ActivateTraceJob,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::InvalidParameter,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ValueNotSupported,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::OperationNotSupported,
NotUniqueTraceReference);
/**
* Request to deactivate a TraceJob through Itf-N.
**/
TraceIRPConstDefs::ResultEnum deactivateTraceJob (
in TraceIRPConstDefs::TraceReference traceReference,
in TraceIRPConstDefs::TraceTarget traceTarget,
out TraceIRPConstDefs::TraceRecordingSessionReference
traceRecordingSessionReference)
raises (DeactivateTraceJob,
NotUniqueTraceReference,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::InvalidParameter,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ValueNotSupported,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::OperationNotSupported);
/**
* Request to list the parameters of a specific TraceJob through Itf-N.
**/
TraceIRPConstDefs::ResultEnum listTraceJob (
in TraceIRPConstDefs::TraceReference traceReference,
out KernelCmConstDefs::DN moInstance,
out TraceIRPConstDefs::ListOfInterfaces listOfInterfaces,
out TraceIRPConstDefs::TraceDepth traceDepth,
out TraceIRPConstDefs::TraceRecordingSessionReference
traceRecordingSessionReference,
out TraceIRPConstDefs::TraceTarget traceTarget,
out TraceIRPConstDefs::TriggeringEvent triggeringEvent,
out TraceIRPConstDefs::TraceCollectionEntityAddress
traceCollectionEntityAddress)
raises (ListTraceJob,
NotUniqueTraceReference,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::InvalidParameter,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ValueNotSupported,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::OperationNotSupported);
/**
* Request to list the activated TraceJobs through Itf-N.
**/
TraceIRPConstDefs::ResultEnum listActivatedTraceJob (
out TraceIRPConstDefs::TraceReferenceList traceReferenceList)
raises (ListActivatedTraceJob,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::InvalidParameter,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ValueNotSupported,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::OperationNotSupported);
};
};
#endif // _TRACE_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
# A.3 IDL specification (file name "TraceIRPNotifications.idl")
//File: TraceIRPNotifications.idl
#ifndef _TRACE_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#define _TRACE_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#include \
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* Module: TraceIRPNotifications
This module contains the specification of all notifications of Trace IRP
Agent.
=============================================================================
*/
module TraceIRPNotifications
{
/**
* Constant definitions for the notifyTraceRecordingSessionFailure notification
**/
interface NotifyTraceRecordingSessionFailure:
NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify
{
const string EVENT_TYPE = \"notifyTraceRecordingSessionFailure\";
/**
* This constant defines the name of the TraceRecordingSessionReference property.
* The data type for the value of this property is
* TraceIRPConstDefs::TraceRecordingSessionReference.
**/
const string TRACE_RECORDING_SESSION_REFERENCE =
TraceIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::TRACE_RECORDING_SESSION_REFERENCE;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the TraceReference property.
* The data type for the value of this property is
* TraceIRPConstDefs::TraceReference.
**/
const string TRACE_REFERENCE =
TraceIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::TRACE_REFERENCE;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the reason property.
* The data type for the value of this property is string.
*/
const string REASON = TraceIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::REASON;
};
/**
* Constant definitions for the notifyTraceSessionLocalActivation notification
**/
interface NotifyTraceSessionLocalActivation:
NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify
{
const string EVENT_TYPE = \"notifyTraceSessionLocalActivation\";
/**
* This constant defines the name of the TraceReference property.
* The data type for the value of this property is
* TraceIRPConstDefs::TraceReference.
**/
const string TRACE_REFERENCE =
TraceIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::TRACE_REFERENCE;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the TraceTarget property.
* The data type for the value of this property is
* TraceIRPConstDefs::TraceTarget.
**/
const string TRACE_TARGET =
TraceIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::TRACE_TARGET;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the Managed Entity Object Instance property.
* The data type for the value of this property is string.
*/
const string MO_INSTANCE = TraceIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::MO_INSTANCE;
};
/**
* Constant definitions for the notifyTraceSessionIdentities notification
**/
interface NotifyTraceSessionIdentities: NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify
{
const string EVENT_TYPE = \"notifyTraceSessionIdentities\";
/**
* This constant defines the name of the TraceReference property.
* The data type for the value of this property is
* TraceIRPConstDefs::TraceReference.
**/
const string TRACE_REFERENCE =
TraceIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::TRACE_REFERENCE;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the TraceRecordingSessionReference property.
* The data type for the value of this property is
* TraceIRPConstDefs::TraceRecordingSessionReference.
**/
const string TRACE_RECORDING_SESSION_REFERENCE =
TraceIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::TRACE_RECORDING_SESSION_REFERENCE;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the TraceTarget property.
* The data type for the value of this property is
* TraceIRPConstDefs::TraceTarget.
**/
const string TRACE_TARGET =
TraceIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::TRACE_TARGET;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the Managed Entity Object Instance property.
* The data type for the value of this property is string.
*/
const string MO_INSTANCE = TraceIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::MO_INSTANCE;
};
};
#endif // _TRACE_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#