# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**32.511: \"Automatic Neighbour Relation (ANR) management; Concepts and
requirements\".**
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the requirements and architecture for the
management of Neighbour Cell Relations (NCRs) across the Itf-N. The NCR
management is a key feature of Self Organization Network (SON) [4].
The NCR concept and background information are described in clause 4.\ The
requirements for management of NCR are defined in clause 5.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TR 32.816: \"Telecommunication management; Study on Management of
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) and Evolved
Packet Core (EPC)\".
[5] 3GPP TR _32.501 \"Telecommunication management; Self-Configuration of
Network Elements; Concepts and Integration Reference Point (IRP)
Requirements\"._
_[6] 3GPP TS 36.300 "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2"_
_[7] 3GPP TS 32.301 "Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements"_
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3] and TS 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3] and TS 21.905 [1], in that
order.
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**ANR function:** The ANR function is described in 36.300 [6], clause 22.3.2a.
**Neighbour Cell Relation:** The Neighbour Cell Relation (NCR) is defined in
36.300 [6] clause 22.3.2a
**Searchlist** : List of frequencies and supporting information to be used for
neighbour cell measurements. The Searchlist contains entries for E-UTRAN and
supported IRATs.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
> NCR Neighbour Cell Relation
>
> eNB eNodeB or evolved NodeB
>
> UC Use Case
# 4 Concepts and background
The ANR function in the eNB relates to the Use Cases **Establishment of new
eNB in network** and **Optimisation of the neighbourhood list** in [4].
\- For **Establishment of new eNB in network.** If the operator so chooses,
the OAM system adds and configures NCRs before the eNB goes into operation.
\- For **Optimisation of the neighbourhood list** , the ANR function deals
with automatic NCR additions and removals. It minimizes the need for planning
and configuring NCRs. If the operator so chooses, the OAM system adds and
configures NCRs or removes NCRs after the eNB goes into operation.
# 5 Requirements
## 5.1 Business level requirements
**REQ-ANR-CON-001** NCRs shall be set up and optimized with no or minimal
human intervention.
**REQ-ANR-CON-002** Initial status of the newly created NCR by ANR function
shall be such that HO is allowed, X2 connection setup is allowed, and the NCR
is allowed to be removed by ANR.
### 5.1.1 Void
#### 5.1.1.1 Void
#### 5.1.1.2 Void
#### 5.1.1.3 Void
## 5.2 Specification level requirements
### 5.2.1 Void
### 5.2.2 Void
### 5.2.3 Void
### 5.2.4 Use cases
#### 5.2.4.1 Management of fully automatic ANR function
+--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \ | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Goal (\\*)** | The goal is that the | | | | IRPManager may add and | | | | remove NCRs and that it | | | | may change attributes of | | | | the NCRs | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Actors and Roles | \\- IRPManager | | | (\\*)** | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Telecom resources** | \\- ANR function | | | | | | | | \\- eNB | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Assumptions** | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Pre conditions** | \\- The ANR function is | | | | active; | | | | | | | | \\- The cell may or may | | | | not have Neighbour Cell | | | | Relations configured by | | | | O&M. | | | | | | | | \\- The eNB has finished | | | | Use Case | | | | *Self-configuration of a | | | | new eNodeB* \\[5\\]. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Begins when** | > This Use Case begins | | | | > when all pre | | | | > conditions have been | | | | > met. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Step 1 (*) (M)** | - If the IRPManager | | | | finds out that an | | | | unsuitable Neighbour | | | | Cell Relation has been | | | | added by ANR, the | | | | IRPManager may | | | | "Blacklist" that | | | | particular Neighbour | | | | Cell Relation. | | | | | | | | - If the IRPManager | | | | finds out that a desired | | | | Neighbour Cell Relation | | | | has not been added by | | | | ANR, the IRPManager may | | | | "Whitelist" that | | | | particular Neighbour | | | | Cell Relation. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Ends when (*)** | This Use Case ends when | | | | the eNB is taken out of | | | | service or when the ANR | | | | function is stopped. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Exceptions** | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Post Conditions** | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Traceability (*)** | **REQ-ANR-CON-001** | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
#### _5.2.4.2 Manual start of the ANR function by operator_
+--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \ | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Goal (\\*)** | The goal is that the | | | | IRPManager may add and | | | | remove NCRs and that it | | | | may change attributes of | | | | the NCRs. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Actors and Roles | \\- IRPManager | | | (\\*)** | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Telecom resources** | \\- ANR function | | | | | | | | \\- eNB | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Assumptions** | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Pre conditions** | \\- The ANR function is | | | | not active; | | | | | | | | \\- The eNB may have | | | | Neighbour Cell | | | | Relations. The NCRs may | | | | be configured by O&M or | | | | be may have been added | | | | by ANR function if ANR | | | | function has been active | | | | previously. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Begins when** | > The Use Case begins | | | | > when the IRP Manager | | | | > starts the ANR | | | | > function. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Step 1 (*) (M)** | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Step 2 (*) (M)** | > The IRPManager may | | | | > uncheck the noRemove | | | | > attribute from any | | | | > present Neighbour | | | | > Relation. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Step 3 (*) (M)** | - If the IRPManager | | | | finds out that an | | | | unsuitable Neighbour | | | | Cell Relation has been | | | | added by ANR, the | | | | IRPManager may | | | | "Blacklist" that | | | | particular Neighbour | | | | Cell Relation. | | | | | | | | - If the IRPManager | | | | finds out that a desired | | | | Neighbour Cell Relation | | | | has not been added by | | | | ANR, the IRPManager may | | | | "Whitelist" that | | | | particular Neighbour | | | | Cell Relation. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Ends when (*)** | This Use Case ends when | | | | the eNB is taken out of | | | | service or when the ANR | | | | function is stopped. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Exceptions** | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Post Conditions** | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Traceability (*)** | **REQ-ANR-CON-001** | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
#### 5.2.4.3 Handling of noX2 attribute
> **Use Case 1**
>
> IRPManager needs to be able to forbid and allow the establishment of X2
> interfaces from the source macro eNBs to a target eNB. IRPManager is aware
> that the target eNB cannot support X2 connections. This UC on how noX2 is
> used relates to node level rather than cell level.
>
> **Use Case 2**
>
> IRPManager needs to be able to allow and forbid the establishment of X2
> interfaces from the source HeNBs to a target macro eNB. This UC supports the
> case when a potentially large number of HeNBs in the vicinity of a macro
> eNB, X2 establishment requests from HeNB might saturate the physical ports
> of the macro eNB (not in terms of bandwidth saturation but rather the
> saturation in terms of the number of simultaneous establishment requests
> supported). This UC on how noX2 is used relates to node level rather than
> Cell level.
>
> Editor's note: The supporting cases need to be further refined
>
> **Use Case 3**
>
> IRPManager needs to be able to forbid the establishment of the X2 interface
> from (IRPManager\'s) operator\'s eNB to another operator\'s eNB or to an eNB
> that belongs to another unwanted PLMN. This UC supports the case when the IP
> address of the target eNB cannot be obtained or the X2 handovers to another
> unwanted PLMN are not allowed. This UC on how noX2 is used relates to node
> level rather than cell level.
Editor's note: The first supporting case (pertaining to the IP address) needs
further study
> **Use Case 4**
>
> IRPManager needs to be able to ask for the release of the X2 interface
> improperly established by eNB. This UC supports the case when the serving
> eNB has established an X2 interface (e.g., by ANR) before IRPManager had a
> chance to forbid the establishment of that X2 interface the IRPManager needs
> to be able to ask the serving eNB to release the X2 interface to the target
> eNB. This UC on how noX2 is used relates to node level rather than cell
> level.
### 5.2.5 Requirements
#### 5.2.5.1 ANR function management
The business level requirements in section 5.1 are decomposed into the
following specification level requirements:
**REQ-ANR-FUN-01** An IRPManager shall be able to request that HO be allowed
from source cell to target cell.
**REQ-ANR-FUN-02** An IRPManager shall be able to request that HO be
prohibited from source cell to target cell.
**REQ-ANR-FUN-03** An IRPManager shall be able to request that HO be allowed
from source cell to target cell and that no other entity than an IRPManager
can remove that request. This is termed as HO white-listing.
**REQ-ANR-FUN-04** An IRPManager shall be able to request that HO be
prohibited from source cell to target cell and that no other entity than an
IRPManager can remove that request. This is termed as HO black‑listing.
**REQ-ANR-FUN-05** An IRPAgent shall inform the IRPManager about success or
failure of IRPManager operations to allow HO, prohibit HO, HO white-list and
HO black-list.
**REQ_ANR-FUN-06** An IRPManager shall be able to request establishment of an
X2 connection from one eNB to another eNB.
**REQ-ANR-FUN-07** An IRPManager shall be able to request the release of an X2
connection between two eNB's.
**REQ-ANR-FUN-08** An IRPManager shall be able to request that X2 interface
from one eNB to another eNB be established if the X2 interface is not
established and that the release of X2 interface be prohibited. No other
entity than an IRPManager can remove that request. This is termed as X2 white-
listing.
**REQ-ANR-FUN-09** An IRPManager shall be able to request that X2 interface
from one eNB to another eNB be released if the X2 interface is established and
that the establishment of the X2 interface be prohibited. No other entity than
an IRPManager can remove that request. This is termed as X2 black-listing.
**REQ-ANR-FUN-10** Operator shall be able to disable/enable one eNB or
multiple eNB's ANR function when needed.
**REQ-ANR-FUN-11** void
**REQ-ANR-FUN-12** An IRPManager shall be able to add and configure new NCRs
in the eNB.
**REQ-ANR-FUN-13** An IRPManager shall be able to remove NCRs in the eNB
**REQ-ANR-FUN-14** An IRPAgent shall inform the IRPManager about changes to
the NCR according to TS 32.301 [7].
**REQ-ANR-FUN-15** A Searchlist is needed for each cell. The IRPManager should
be able to configure the Searchlist.
**REQ-ANR-FUN-16** An IRPAgent shall inform the IRPManager about the newly
added and removed NCRs according to TS 32.301 [7].
**REQ-ANR-FUN-17** An IRPManager shall be able to retrieve ANR related
attribute values on cell level, identifying:
\- Source cell & target cell;
\- NCR status (locked, unlocked);
\- HO status (allowed, prohibited).
The \"locked\" NCR status indicates that the NCR shall not be removed by the
ANR function.
The \"unlocked\" NCR status indicates that the NCR may be removed by the ANR
function.
The \"allowed\" HO status indicates that handovers are allowed for this NCR.
The \"prohibited\" HO status indicates that handovers are prohibited for this
NCR.
The combination of \"locked\" NCR status and \"allowed\" HO status is a
\"whitelisted\" relation.
The combination of \"locked\" NCR status and \"prohibited\" HO status is a
\"blacklisted\" relation
**REQ-ANR-FUN-18** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to determine whether the X2 interface between two eNodeBs is
established or not established.
**REQ-ANR-FUN-19** IRPManager shall be able to request that the source eNB be
prohibited to use X2 interface for HOs to a target eNB even if the X2
interface exists between the eNBs. No other entity than an IRPManager can
remove that request. This is termed as X2HO black-listing.
**REQ-ANR-FUN-20** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to retrieve the X2 whitelisted and blacklisted eNBs.
#