# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.531: Software management; Concepts and Integration Reference Point (IRP)
Requirements
**32.532: Software management Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)**
32.533: Software management Integration Reference Point (IRP); Common Object
Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the Software Management Interface IRP
Information Services descriptions.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[5] 3GPP TR 32.816: \"Telecommunication management; Study on Management of
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) and Evolved
Packet Core (EPC)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.531: \"Telecommunication management; Software management;
Concepts and Integration Reference Point (IRP) Requirements\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic network resources
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Network Resource Model (NRM)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management: Information Services\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3] and TR 21.905 [4] and the following apply. A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in TS 32.531 [6], TS 32.101 [1], TS 32.102 [2] and TS
21.905 [4], in that order.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[4], TS 32.531 [6] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [4] and TS 32.531 [6].
# 4 Information Object Classes
## 4.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.622 [7], information object class, Top
top 3GPP TS 32.312 [8], information object class, managedGenericIRP
managedGenericIRP
* * *
## 4.2 Class diagram
### 4.2.1 Attributes and relationships
The diagram reflects the definitions in the text of the following clauses. In
case of conflict text takes precedence.
{width="6.424305555555556in" height="3.7666666666666666in"}
### 4.2.2 Inheritance
The diagram reflects the definitions in the text of the following clauses. In
case of conflict text takes precedence.
## 4.3 Information object class definitions
### 4.3.1 GenManCapability
#### 4.3.1.1 Definition
This object class is a support object class. Sub-classes of this IOC represent
the IRPAgent's capability in support of automated management.
It is created by the IRPAgent and cannot be modified by the IRPManager.\ An
instance of a sub-class of genManCapability object is valid for a certain NE
type or a set of NE types.\ Multiple genManCapability objects may be
instantiated in the IRPAgent.
The object identifies\ a) the sequence of the self-configuration steps\ and
for each step\ a.1) the possibility, whether before the step a stop point can
be selected, such that the self-configuration step is suspended and waits for
a request by the IRPManager to resume.\ b) the final administrativeState
(ITU-T X.731) of the NE after successful self-configuration.
#### 4.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
nEInformation M M - stepsAndOfferedStopPointList M M -
offeredFinalAdministrativeStateInformation M M -
* * *
#### 4.3.1.3 Notifications
None.
### 4.3.2 GenManProfile
#### 4.3.2.1 Definition
This object class is a support object class. Sub-classes of this IOC represent
the IRPManager's decision related to automated management.
An instance of a sub-class of GenManProfile is valid for a certain NE type or
a set of NE types.\ For an NE starting its self-configuration process (see
genManProcess) there shall be no ambiguity which instance of a sub-class of
GenManProfile is valid for a certain NE type or a set of NE types.\ Multiple
instances of sub-classes of GenManProfile objects may be instantiated in the
IRPAgent.
By using an instance of a sub-class of this object the IRPManager decides
which of the possible stop points offered in the related instance of a sub-
class of genManCapability are used to suspend the automated management process
of the specified NE type (or set of NE types) and which of the
offeredFinalAdministrativeStateInformation is selected.
#### 4.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
versionNumber M M - nEInformation M M - stepsAndSelectedStopPointList M M -
selectedFinalAdministrativeState M M -
* * *
#### Notifications
None.
### 4.3.3 GenManProcess
#### 4.3.3.1 Definition
This object class is a support object class. Sub-classes of this IOC describe
the automated management process for an NE. They allow the IRPManager to be
informed about the current progress of the process and where stop points are
set. No intervention of the IRPManager is foreseen except resume after a stop
point was reached or termination of the self-configuration.
When the automated management process for an NE starts, an instance of the
sub-class of genManProcess is created automatically.
The steps in the stepInfoList shall conform to the content of the relevant
sub-class of genManProfile instance.\ Example:\ If the
stepsAndOfferedStopPointList of a sub-class instance of genManProfile
indicates stopPointCanBeSetBeforeThisStep for step X, then the entry for step
X in the stepInfoList of the sub-class instance of genManProcess can only have
the value stopPointIsNotSet .
When there is no relevant genManProfile at creation time of genManProcess,
then the IRPAgent creates the genManProcess based on the relevant
genManCapability. In this case preferably no stop point shall be set in the
self configuration process.
When the last step of the self configuration process is completed
successfully, the genManProcess instance is deleted automatically.
When self configuration process is terminated by the IRPManager, the
genManProcess instance is deleted automatically.
#### 4.3.3.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
nEIdentification M M - profileId M M - stepInfoList M M -
* * *
#### Notifications
None.
### 4.3.4 SwMCapability
#### 4.3.4.1 Definition
This object class is a sub-class of genManCapability and represents the
IRPAgent's capability in support of SWM.
It is created by the IRPAgent and cannot be modified by the IRPManager.\ A
SwMManagementCapability object is valid for a certain NE type or a set of NE
types with a certain SW version or set of versions. For an NE there shall be
no ambiguity which SwMManagementCapability object is valid for the NE.\
Multiple SwMManagementCapability objects may be instantiated in the IRPAgent.
The object identifies\ a) the sequence of the self-configuration steps\ and
for each step\ a.1) the possibility, whether before the step a stop point can
be selected, such that the self-configuration step is suspended and waits for
a request by the IRPManager to resume.\ b) the final administrativeState of
the NE after successful self-configuration.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_SWM_FUN_5  
3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_1
* * *
#### 4.3.4.2 Attributes
All attributes inherited from IOC GenManCapability.
Additional attributes:
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
swVersionToBeInstalledOfferList CM *) M -
* * *
*) Condition: objectClass_is_swMCapability
#### 4.3.4.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition objectClass_is_swMCapability objectClass is equal to
swMCapabilities
* * *
#### 4.3.4.4 Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyNewSwAvailability M
* * *
### 4.3.5 SwMProfile
#### 4.3.5.1 Definition
This object class is a sub-class of genManProfile. It allows the IRPManager to
select from the stop points offered in the swMCapabilites object those which
should be used to stop the SW management process for NEs, which fit to the
nEInformation and swVersionToBeInstalled, and which of the
offeredFinalAdministrativeStateInformation is selected.\ For an NE starting
its SWM process there shall be no ambiguity which swMManagementProfile is
valid for the NE. Therefore the nEInformation of different swMProfile
instances shall not intersect. Example for a not allowed intersection: profile
1 has nEInformation=(neType=eNB), profile 2 has nEInformation=((neType=eNB)
and (Id=1)) ).
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_1  
3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_2  
3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_3  
3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_4
* * *
#### 4.3.5.2 Attributes
All attributes inherited from IOC GenManProfile.
Additional attributes:
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
swVersionToBeInstalled CM M -
* * *
Condition: objectClass_is_swMProfile
#### 4.3.5.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition objectClass_is_swMProfile objectClass is equal to swMProfile
* * *
#### 4.3.5.4 Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifySwMProfileCreation M  
notifySwMProfileChange CM Condition: Present if operation changeSwMProfile is
supported. notifySwMProfileDeletion M
* * *
### 4.3.6 SwMProcess
#### 4.3.6.1 Definition
This object class is a sub-class of genManProcess . It describes the SW
management process for an NE. It allows the IRPManager to be informed about
the current progress of the SWM process and where stop points are set. No
intervention of the IRPManager is foreseen except to provide indication to
resume after a stop point was reached or to abort the self-configuration.
When the automated management process for an NE starts, an instance of the
swMProcess is created automatically.
The id of the swMProcess shall be identical to the identifier of the NE and
identify the swMProcess instance uniquely.
The steps in the stepInfoList shall conform to the content of the relevant
swMProfile instance.\ Example:\ If the stepsAndOfferedStopPointList of
swMProfile indicates stopPointCanBeSetBeforeThisStep for step X, then the
entry for step X in the stepInfoList of swMProcess can only have the value
stopPointIsNotSet .
When there is no relevant swMProfile at creation time of swMProcess, then the
IRPAgent creates the swMProcess based on the relevant swMCapability. In this
case preferably no stop point shall be set in the self configuration process.
When the last step of the self configuration process is completed
successfully, the swMProcess instance is deleted automatically.
When self configuration process is terminated by the IRPManager, the
swMProcess instance is deleted automatically.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_2  
3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_3  
3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_4  
3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_5  
3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_6
* * *
#### 4.3.6.2 Attributes
All attributes inherited from IOC GenManProcess.
Additional attributes: None.
#### 4.3.6.3 Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifySwMProcessCreation M  
notifySwMProcessStage M  
notifySwMProcessDeletion M
* * *
### 4.3.7 SwMIRP
#### 4.3.7.1 Definition
This information object represents a Software Management IRP. It inherits from
IOC managedGenericIRP.
#### 4.3.7.2 Attributes
All attributes inherited from IOC managedGenericIRP.
Additional attributes: None.
#### 4.3.7.3 Notifications
All notifications inherited from IOC managedGenericIRP.
Additional notifications: None.
## 4.4 Information relationship definitions
### 4.4.1 relation-swMIRP-swMCapability (M)
#### 4.4.1.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between SwMIRP and SwMCapability.
#### 4.4.1.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theSwmIRP It represents the SwmIRP. theSwMCapability It
represents the SwMCapability
* * *
#### 4.4.1.3 Constraints
There is no constraint for this relationship.
### 4.4.2 relation-SwmIRP-swMProfile (M)
#### 4.4.2.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between SwmIRP and SwMProfile.
#### 4.4.2.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theSwmIRP It represents the SwmIRP. theSwMProfile It
represents the SwMProfile.
* * *
#### 4.4.2.3 Constraints
There is no constraint for this relationship.
### 4.4.3 relation-swMIRP-swMProcess (M)
#### 4.4.3.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between SwmIRP and SwMProcess.
#### 4.4.3.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theSwMIRP It represents the SwMIRP. theSwMProcess It
represents the SwMProcess.
* * *
#### 4.4.3.3 Constraints
There is no constraint for this relationship.
### 4.4.4 relation-swMCapabilites-swMProfile (M)
#### 4.4.4.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between swMCapability and swMProfile.
#### 4.4.4.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theSwMCapability It represents the swMCapability.
theSwMProfile It represents the swMProfile.
* * *
#### 4.4.4.3 Constraints
A relation can only exist between a SwMProfile and a SwMCapability when
a) all steps which are entries in the stepsAndSelectedStopPointList of
SwMProfile have stopPointCanBeSetBeforeThisStep = Yes in the
stepsAndOfferedStopPointList of the SwMCapability.
b) nEInformation of SwMProfile is a subset of nEInformation of SwMCapability.
### 4.4.5 relation swMProfile-swMProcess (M)
#### 4.4.5.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between SwMProfile and SwMProcess.
#### 4.4.5.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theSwMProfile It represents the theSwMProfile. theSwMProcess
It represents the SwMProcess.
* * *
#### 4.4.5.3 Constraints
A SwMProcess shall perform all self-configuration steps according to
stepsAndOfferedStopPointList of SwMProfile.
A relation can only exist between a SwMProcess and a SwMProfile when
nEIdentification of SwMProcess falls into nEInformation of SwMProfile.
## 4.5 Information attribute definitions
### 4.5.1 Definition and legal values
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | id | It identifies | | | | uniquely an instance | | | | of its object class. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | nEIdentification | This attribute | | | | identifies the NE | | | | for which the self | | | | management activity | | | | is done. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | nEInformation | This attribute | "NE instance/s" only | | | defines the neType | applies for | | | or NE instance/s - | instance/s already | | | with optional | known to the | | | software | IRPManager, e.g. in | | | identification | case of | | | information - , for | re-configuration or | | | which this | SW update. | | | capability/profile | | | | instance is valid. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | startStepName | nameOfStep, this | The legal value of | | | attribute defines | startStepName could | | | the start step for | be one of the step | | | resume operation. | which defined in | | | | stepsAnd | | | | OfferedStopPointList | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sw | This attribute | | | VersionToBeInstalled | describes which SW | | | | identification | | | | information shall be | | | | used at the end of | | | | self management in | | | | NEs for which this | | | | swMC | | | | apability/swMProfile | | | | applies. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | stepsAnd | Each entry in the | nameOfStep:\ | | OfferedStopPointList | list contains for | swDownload, | | | each step the | | | | following | swInstallation, | | | information: | | | | | swActivation | | | - nameOfStep:\ | | | | This list shall | More values for | | | be exhaustive; | nameOfStep may be | | | if a certain | used by other IRPs. | | | step is not | | | | visible or not | All steps may be | | | supported in the | offered as stop | | | SWM process, | points. | | | then it shall | | | | not be shown | sequ | | | (listed) in the | enceNumberInProcess: | | | stepsAndO | | | | fferedStopPointList. | Positive Integer | | | | | | | - seq | stopPointCan | | | uenceNumberInProcess | BeSetBeforeThisStep: | | | | Yes, No | | | - stopPointCa | | | | nBeSetBeforeThisStep | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | stepsAndS | Each entry in the | nameOfSwMStep,\ | | electedStopPointList | list contains for | seque | | | each step the | nceNumberInProcess:\ | | | following | see | | | information: | stepsAnd | | | | OfferedStopPointList | | | - nameOfStep: | | | | | sto | | | - seq | pPointSetIndication: | | | uenceNumberInProcess | | | | | stopPoint | | | - st | IsSetBeforeThisStep, | | | opPointSetIndication | stopPointIsNotSet | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | stepInfoList | This list attribute | nameOfSwMStep,\ | | | contains information | seque | | | about all steps and | nceNumberInProcess:\ | | | how far they have | see | | | progressed. Each | stepsAnd | | | entry in the list | OfferedStopPointList | | | contains: | | | | | stop | | | - nameOfStep | PointSetIndication:\ | | | | see | | | - seq | stepsAndS | | | uenceNumberInProcess | electedStopPointList | | | | | | | - st | stepProgress:\ | | | opPointSetIndication | notYetStarted,\ | | | | running,\ | | | - stepProgress | completed,\ | | | | awaitingResume,\ | | | | failure,\ | | | | terminated | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | swMprocessList | This attribute | See individual | | | contains information | definitions of the | | | about the instances | list entry content. | | | of swMProcess . Each | | | | entry in the list | | | | contains (SET OF): | | | | | | | | - id | | | | | | | | - nEIdentification | | | | | | | | - stepInfoList | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | of | It describes which | One or more of the | | feredFinalAdministra | selection is offered | following values: | | tiveStateInformation | regarding the | | | | administrativeState | locked, | | | of the NE after | | | | successful automated | unlocked, | | | management: If it | | | | may have the value | determine | | | locked or unlocked | dByConfigurationData | | | or if the value of | | | | the | The value unlocked | | | administrativeState | should always be | | | may be determined by | present. | | | the configuration | | | | data which is | | | | uploaded in the | | | | course of the | | | | automated | | | | management. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | selectedFina | Determines which of | One of the following | | lAdministrativeState | the offers made | values: | | | regarding the | | | | administrativeState | locked, | | | of the NE after | | | | successful | unlocked, | | | self-configuration | | | | is taken. | determine | | | | dByConfigurationData | | | | | | | | Default value is | | | | value unlocked. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | swVersionTo | This list describes | Minimum size of | | BeInstalledOfferList | for which SW | list: 1 entry | | | version/s the | | | | capability object is | | | | valid. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | versionNumber | This number is the | Integer | | | version number of a | | | | profile. Its value | | | | is 1 when a profile | | | | is created. It is | | | | incremented by 1 | | | | each time a profile | | | | is successfully | | | | changed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | profileId | This parameter | See versionNumber | | | records the | | | | identification of | | | | the profile used by | | | | the process. It | | | | consists of two | | | | data: | | | | | | | | - id (of the | | | | profile) | | | | | | | | - versionNumber | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | m | This parameter | See nEInformation | | atchingNEInformation | records the | | | | information of the | | | | NE which was | | | | matching with the | | | | nEInformation of the | | | | profile when | | | | determining which | | | | profile is to be | | | | used for the | | | | process. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | result | This parameter | success, | | | records the result | | | | of an operation. | failure, | | | | | | | | stepNameNotMatch: | | | | The current process | | | | step doesn't match | | | | the startStepName in | | | | the operation. | | | | | | | | nEInf | | | | ormationIntersection | | | | : There shall be no | | | | ambiguity which | | | | swMManagementProfile | | | | is valid for the NE. | | | | Therefore the | | | | nEInformation of | | | | different swMProfile | | | | instances shall not | | | | intersect. Example | | | | for a not allowed | | | | intersection: | | | | profile 1 has | | | | nEInfor | | | | mation=(neType=eNB), | | | | profile 2 has | | | | nEInfor | | | | mation=((neType=eNB) | | | | and (Id=1)). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 4.5.2 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition FFS
* * *
# 5 IRP descriptions: Interface Definitions
## 5.1 Class diagram representing interfaces
The diagram reflects the definitions in the text of the following clauses.. In
case of conflict text takes precedence.
{width="6.427083333333333in" height="3.6506944444444445in"}
## 5.2 Generic rules
\- **Rule 1:** each operation with at least one input parameter supports a
pre-condition valid_input_parameter which indicates that all input parameters
shall be valid with regards to their information type. Additionally, each such
operation supports an exception operation_failed_invalid_input_parameter which
is raised when pre-condition valid_input_parameter is false. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
\- **Rule 2:** each operation with at least one optional input parameter
supports a set of pre-conditions supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx where
\"xxx\" is the name of the optional input parameter and the pre-condition
indicates that the operation supports the named optional input parameter.
Additionally, each such operation supports an exception
operation_failed_unsupported_optional_input_parameter_xxx which is raised when
(a) the pre-condition supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx is false and (b)
the named optional input parameter is carrying information. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
\- **Rule 3:** each operation shall support a generic exception
operation_failed_internal_problem which is raised when an internal problem
occurs and that the operation cannot be completed. The exception has the same
entry and exit state.
NOTE: These rules are mapped at the solution set level. Pre-conditions and
exceptions, generated by these rules, need not appear explicitly in the
present document.
## 5.3 SwMIRPOperations_1 Interface (M)
### 5.3.1 Operation listSwMCapabilities (M)
#### 5.3.1.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to determine on the Itf-N interface which
steps in the SW management are performed in NEs of a certain type, what is
done by the NE in case a step does not perform normally and before which steps
a stop point can be set, such that the software download halts and waits for a
continuation request by the IRPManager.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_1
* * *
#### 5.3.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment nEInformation M
swM.nEInformation If this input parameter contains no information, all
(offered) SwMCapability instances are to be listed in the output.
* * *
#### 5.3.1.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | capabilityList | M | swM | Each entry in | | | | .capabilityList | the list | | | | | contains: | | | | | | | | | | - Id of | | | | | | | | | | SwMCapability | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | nEInformation | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | SwMCapability | | | | | | | | | | - s | | | | | wVersionToBeIns | | | | | talledOfferList | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | SwMCapability | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | stepsAndOffer | | | | | edStopPointList | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | SwMCapability | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | offeredFinal | | | | | AdministrativeS | | | | | tateInformation | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | SwMCapability | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | result | M | swM.result | result=success | | | | | and empty | | | | | sw | | | | | MCapabilityList | | | | | mean: No | | | | | instance found. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 5.3.1.4 Post-condition
* * *
Assertion Name Definition dataDelivered The requested data is delivered.
* * *
#### 5.3.1.5 Exceptions
##### 5.3.1.5.1 operation_failed
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | Condition: Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false. | | | | | | Returned Information: The output parameter | | | result. | | | | | | Exit state: Entry state. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
### 5.3.2 Operation listSwMProfiles (M)
#### 5.3.2.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to find out which instances of SwMProfile
are valid NEs of a certain type.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_1  
3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_2
* * *
#### 5.3.2.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment nEInformation M
swM.nEInformation If this input parameter contains no information, all profile
instances are to be listed in the output.
* * *
#### 5.3.2.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | swMprofileList | M | swM | Each entry in | | | | .swMprofileList | the list | | | | | contains: | | | | | | | | | | - Id of | | | | | profile | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | versionNumber | | | | | of | | | | | swMprofile | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | nEInformation | | | | | of profile | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | stepsAndSelect | | | | | edStopPointList | | | | | of profile | | | | | | | | | | - se | | | | | lectedFinalAdmi | | | | | nistrativeState | | | | | of profile | | | | | | | | | | - c | | | | | onditionally*) | | | | | swVersi | | | | | onToBeInstalled | | | | | of | | | | | swMprofile | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | result | M | swM.result | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
*) condition see §4.3.5.3
### 5.3.3 Operation createSwMProfile (M)
#### 5.3.3.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to establish an instance of SwMProfile to
be valid for NEs of a certain type.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_2
* * *
#### 5.3.3.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment id O swM.id Identifier of
swMprofile nEInformation M swM.nEInformation See 4.5 swVersionToBeInstalled M
swM.swVersionToBeInstalled See 4.5 stepsAndSelectedStopPointList M
swM.stepsAndSelectedStopPointList See 4.5 selectedFinalAdministrativeState M
swM.selectedFinalAdministrativeState See 4.5
* * *
#### 5.3.3.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | id | O *) | swM.id | *) See below | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | result | M | swM.result | If result = | | | | | success , then | | | | | parameter id | | | | | contains the id | | | | | of the created | | | | | swMProfile. | | | | | | | | | | If result = | | | | | failure , then | | | | | parameter id is | | | | | absent. | | | | | | | | | | If result = | | | | | nEInformati | | | | | onIntersection, | | | | | then parameter | | | | | id contains the | | | | | id of a | | | | | swMProfile | | | | | whose | | | | | nEInformation | | | | | would intersect | | | | | with the | | | | | proposed | | | | | nEInformation | | | | | for the new | | | | | swMProfile, | | | | | which was not | | | | | created in this | | | | | case. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 5.3.4 Operation deleteSwMProfile (M)
#### 5.3.4.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to delete an instance of swMProfile.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_2
* * *
#### 5.3.4.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment id M swM.id Identifier of
swMprofile
* * *
#### 5.3.4.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment result M swM.result
* * *
### 5.3.5 Operation listSwMProcesses (M)
#### 5.3.5.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to find out the status of one or several
swMProcess instances
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_4
* * *
#### 5.3.5.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | type | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n | O | swM.n | It describes | | EIdentification | | EIdentification | for which NE | | | | | the swMprocess | | | | | is to be | | | | | listed. | | | | | | | | | | If this | | | | | parameter is | | | | | not present, | | | | | all swMprocess | | | | | instances are | | | | | to be listed in | | | | | the output. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 5.3.5.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment swMprocessList M
swM.swMprocessList See 4.5 result M swM.result result=success and empty
swMProcessList mean: No instance found
* * *
### 5.3.6 Operation resumeSwMProcess (M)
#### 5.3.6.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to resume a SW management process which
currently has stopped at a stop point step.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_3
* * *
#### 5.3.6.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment
id M swM.id Identifier of swMprocess
startStepName M swM.NameOfStep The start step for the resume operation.\ If
the current process step is equal to the startStepName value, the process will
start from startStepName.\ If the current process step does not match the
startStepName value, then it will be indicated in the result of the operation.
Not matching startStepName value can either be the case that the process has
already started from the specified step (i.e. request is too late) or that the
process has not yet reached the specified step (i.e request is too early).
* * *
#### 5.3.6.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment result M swM.result
* * *
### 5.3.7 Operation swFallback (M)
#### 5.3.7.1 Definition
This operation enables the IRPManager to initiate a SW fallback.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_SWM_FUN_6
* * *
#### 5.3.7.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment filter M swM.filter To
describe properties of the NEs to be selected.
* * *
#### 5.3.7.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | nEList | M | swM.nEList | Each entry in | | | | | the list | | | | | contains: | | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | EIdentification | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | wFallbackStatus | | | | | (values: | | | | | fall | | | | | backSuccessful, | | | | | fallba | | | | | ckUnsuccessful) | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | result | M | swM.result | - Success, | | | | | | | | | | - Partly | | | | | successful | | | | | -- | | | | | s | | | | | wFallbackStatus | | | | | is | | | | | fallb | | | | | ackUnsuccessful | | | | | for at | | | | | least one | | | | | NE | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | fal | | | | | lbackSuccessful | | | | | for at least | | | | | one other NE | | | | | | | | | | - Failure | | | | | | | | | | Empty NEList | | | | | and | | | | | Result=Success | | | | | means: No NEs | | | | | fulfilling | | | | | filter were | | | | | found. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 5.3.8 Operation terminateSwMProcess (M)
#### 5.3.8.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to terminate a SW management process
which is currently ongoing.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_6
* * *
#### 5.3.8.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment id M swM.id Identifier of
swMprocess .
* * *
#### 5.3.8.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment result M swM.result
* * *
## 5.4 SwMIRPOperations_2 Interface (O)
### 5.4.1 Operation changeSwMProfile (O)
#### 5.4.1.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to change an instance of SwMProfile.
A change in a profile which was already used at the start of an swMProcess
does not affect that swMProcess (which is run to its completion according to
the former version of the profile.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_2
* * *
#### 5.4.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment id M swM.id Identifier of
swMprofile nEInformation M swM.nEInformation See 4.5 swVersionToBeInstalled CM
*) swM.swVersionToBeInstalled See 4.5 stepsAndSelectedStopPointList M
swM.stepsAndSelectedStopPointList See 4.5 selectedFinalAdministrativeState M
swM.selectedFinalAdministrativeState See 4.5
* * *
*) See §4.3.5.2
#### 5.4.1.3 Output parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | result | M | swM.result | If result = | | | | | success or | | | | | failure , then | | | | | parameter id | | | | | may be absent | | | | | or contain the | | | | | id of the | | | | | changed | | | | | swMprofile. | | | | | | | | | | If result = | | | | | nEInformati | | | | | onIntersection, | | | | | then parameter | | | | | confl | | | | | ictingProfileId | | | | | contains the id | | | | | of a swMprofile | | | | | "A" whose | | | | | nEInformation | | | | | would intersect | | | | | with the | | | | | proposed | | | | | nEInformation | | | | | for the | | | | | swMprofile "B" | | | | | = input | | | | | parameter id. | | | | | swMprofile "B" | | | | | will not be | | | | | changed in this | | | | | case. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | versionNumber | M | sw | See 4.5. This | | | | M.versionNumber | parameter has | | | | | value 0 when | | | | | result \<> | | | | | success. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | confl | C *) | swM.confl | See definition | | ictingProfileId | | ictingProfileId | of result | | | | | above. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
*) Condition: result_is_nEInformationIntersection
#### 5.4.1.4 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition result_is_nEInformationIntersection result is equal to
nEInformationIntersection
* * *
## 5.5 SwMIRPNotifications_1 Interface (M)
### 5.5.1 Notification notifySwMProfileCreation (M)
#### 5.5.1.1 Definition
This notification conveys information about the creation of an instance of IOC
swMProfile.
#### 5.5.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifiers Matching Information Comment id M,Y swM.id
Identifier of swMprofile versionNumber M, Y swM.versionNumber See 4.5
nEInformation M,Y swM.nEInformation See 4.5 swVersionToBeInstalled CM,Y*)
swM.swVersionToBeInstalled See 4.5 stepsAndSelectedStopPointList M,N
swM.stepsAndSelectedStopPointList See 4.5 selectedFinalAdministrativeState M,N
swM.selectedFinalAdministrativeState See 4.5
* * *
*) See §4.3.5.2
### 5.5.2 Notification notifySwMProfileDeletion (M)
#### 5.5.2.1 Definition
This notification conveys information about the deletion of an instance of IOC
swMProfile.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_2
* * *
#### 5.5.2.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifiers Matching Information Comment id M,Y swM.id
Identifier of swMprofile
* * *
### 5.5.3 Notification notifySwMProcessCreation (M)
#### 5.5.3.1 Definition
This notification conveys information about the creation of an instance of IOC
swMProcess.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_2
* * *
#### 5.5.3.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifiers Matching Information Comment id M,Y swM.id
Identifier of swMprocess nEIdentification M,Y swM.nEIdentification see 4.5
profileId M,N swM.profileId see 4.5 matchingNEInformation M,N
swM.matchingNEInformation see 4.5 stepInfoList M,N swM.stepInfoList see 4.5
* * *
### 5.5.4 Notification notifySwMProcessStage (M)
#### 5.5.4.1 Definition
This notification conveys information about the stage of an instance of IOC
swMProcess that has been completed or at which that process has been stopped
(based on pre-set stop points).
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_5
* * *
#### 5.5.4.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifiers Matching Information Comment id M,Y swM.id
Identifier of swMprocess stepInfoList M,N swM.stepInfoList see 4.5
* * *
### 5.5.5 Notification notifySwMProcessDeletion (M)
#### 5.5.5.1 Definition
This notification conveys information about the deletion of an instance of IOC
swMProcess
IRPAgent shall also send out this notification in case of a process
termination caused by an exception, for example IRP Agent terminates the
process because it had to wait too long after a suspend operation.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_2
* * *
#### 5.5.5.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifiers | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | id | M,Y | swM.id | Identifier of | | | | | swMprocess | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | tri | M, Y | swM.tri | This parameter | | ggerForDeletion | | ggerForDeletion | describes what | | | | | triggered the | | | | | deletion of the | | | | | swMprocess | | | | | instance: | | | | | | | | | | trig | | | | | gerForDeletion: | | | | | | | | | | irpAg | | | | | entTermination, | | | | | | | | | | irpMana | | | | | gerTermination, | | | | | | | | | | au | | | | | tomatedSWMSucce | | | | | sfullyConcluded | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | additi | O, N | swM.additi | | | onalInformation | | onalInformation | | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 5.5.6 Notification notifyNewSwAvailability (M)
#### 5.5.6.1 Definition
This notification conveys information about the availability of new SW.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_2
* * *
#### 5.5.6.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifiers Matching Information Comment nEandSWversion M,Y
swM.NEandSWversion Informs about new available SW, SW version and NE / NE
version (types) for which it is valid
* * *
## 5.6 SwMIRPNotifications_2 Interface (O)
### 5.6.1 Notification notifySwMProfileChange (C/O)
#### 5.6.1.1 Definition
This notification conveys information about a change of an instance of IOC
swMProfile.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_2
* * *
#### 5.6.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifiers Matching Information Comment id M,Y swM.id
Identifier of swMprofile versionNumber M,Y swM.versionNumber See 4.5
nEInformation M,Y swM.nEInformation See 4.5 swVersionToBeInstalled CM,N *)
swM.swVersionToBeInstalled See 4.5 stepsAndSelectedStopPointList M,N
swM.stepsAndSelectedStopPointList See 4.5 selectedFinalAdministrativeState M
swM.selectedFinalAdministrativeState See 4.5
* * *
*) See §4.3.5.2
#