# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**32.531:** Software management; Concepts and Integration Reference Point
(IRP) Requirements
32.532: Software management Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)
32.533: Software management Integration Reference Point (IRP); Common Object
Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the concepts how SWM of NEs works and what IRP
requirements need to be met to support this functionality.
In the 3GPP Rel-8 the present document focuses on automated software
management of eNBs.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TR 32.816: \"Telecommunication management; Study on Management of
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) and Evolved
Packet Core (EPC)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3] and TS 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in TS 32.101 [1], TS 32.102 [2] and TS 21.905 [5], in that
order.
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Software Management:** Activities to control which software is available
and/or active in a network element.
**Automated Software Management:** Software Management functionalities which
are performed without being triggered by a (SWM) IRP Manager.
**Non-Automated Software Management:** Software Management functionalities
which are performed individually by a (SWM) IRP Manager over Interface-N.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ASWM Automated Software Management
NASWM Non-Automated Software Management
SWM Software Management
NE Network Element
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 Business Level Requirements
### 4.1.1 Business Level Requirements 1
> **REQ_SW_CON_1** The software download functions used during the
> establishment of a new NE in the network should be used also for software
> upgrade.
#### 4.1.1.1 Actor roles
FFS
#### 4.1.1.2 Telecommunications resources
FFS
#### 4.1.1.3 High-level use cases
FFS
### 4.1.2 Business Level Requirements 2
> **REQ_SW_CON_2** The IRPManager should have monitoring and interaction
> capabilities regarding the software download, installation, activation and
> fallback in/to the NE.
#### 4.1.2.1 Actor roles
FFS
#### 4.1.2.2 Telecommunications resources
FFS
#### 4.1.2.3 High-level use cases
FFS
### 4.1.3 Business Level Requirements 3
> **REQ_SW_CON_3** The software installation shall have no or limited service
> impacts.
#### 4.1.3.1 Actor roles
FFS
#### 4.1.3.2 Telecommunications resources
FFS
#### 4.1.3.3 High-level use cases
FFS
### 4.1.4 Business Level Requirements 4
**REQ_SW_CON_4\** The IRPManager shall be able to predefine which specific
software version, component or software package shall be downloaded to one or
more eNodeBs during automated software management procedure.
#### 4.1.4.1 Actor roles
FFS
#### 4.1.4.2 Telecommunications resources
FFS
#### 4.1.4.3 High-level use cases
FFS
## 4.2 Specification level requirements
### 4.2.1 Specification level requirement on general SWM
**REQ_SWM_FUN_1** \ If a software installation/activation fails, a software
fallback should be done.
**REQ_SWM_FUN_2** \ It shall be possible for the IRPManager to retrieve
information about the SW which is present in an NE or a group of NEs.
**REQ_SWM_FUN_3** \ It shall be possible for the IRPManager to monitor changes
in the SW which is present in an NE (newly
downloaded/installed/activated/fallback).
**REQ_SWM_FUN_4\** It shall be possible for the IRPManager to receive alarms
in case of failures during the SW-download/installation/activation/fallback.
**REQ_SWM_FUN_5** \ It shall be possible for the IRPManager to retrieve
information about the SW which is available for an NE.
**REQ_SWM_FUN_6** \ It shall be possible for the IRPManager to instruct the
IRPAgent to trigger a SW fallback in an individual NE or groups of NEs.
#### 4.2.1.1 Actor roles
FFS
#### 4.2.1.2 Telecommunications resources
FFS
#### 4.2.1.3 Use cases
FFS
##### 4.2.1.3.1 Use case 1
FFS
### 4.2.2 Specification level requirement on Automated SWM
**REQ_ASWM_FUN_1\** It shall be possible for an IRPManager to retrieve
\- information regarding how an NE or a group of NEs behaves during ASWM, i.e.
in which sequence the essential steps of ASWM are executed
\- information regarding where the IRPManager can interact with ASWM - by
suspending the ASWM process at one or more ASWM stop points.\ Steps, their
sequence and their stop point qualification are not imposed by the standard.
**REQ_ASWM_FUN_2\** If choices for stop points to suspend the SWM process are
offered, then it shall be possible for an IRPManager to choose/select among
them where it will suspend (stop) a SWM process (i.e. to ensure fulfillment of
pre-conditions for the step like the fulfillment of the presence of required
input data for the step).
The IRPManager shall be able to read or select or de-select the stop points
offered.
The IRPManager shall be informed about the availability of new SW, about the
creation and deletion of a profile which is a holder of information regarding
the offered SWM steps, the offered sequence of the steps and the configuration
steps stop points.
The IRPManager should be able to change the content of a created profile and
be informed about the change.
**REQ_ASWM_FUN_3\** It shall be possible for an IRPManager to resume a
suspended ASWM process.
**REQ_ASWM_FUN_4\** It shall be possible for IRPManager to retrieve
information about the progress of ASWM.
**REQ_ASWM_FUN_5\** The IRPAgent should send a notification when the ASWM
process
  * was suspended
  * was resumed
  * was terminated
**REQ_ASWM_FUN_6**
It shall be possible for an IRPManager to terminate a currently ongoing ASWM
process for one or multiple NEs. After a termination it is not possible to
resume the ASWM process.
**REQ_ASWM_FUN_7**
In order to declare the SW activation succeeded, a self test should have been
completed.
**REQ_ASWM_FUN_8**
If the software activation fails, information documenting the reasons for the
failure should be logged, to support the trouble shooting.
#### 4.2.2.1 Actor roles
FFS
#### 4.2.2.2 Telecommunications resources
FFS
#### 4.2.2.3 Use cases
##### 4.2.2.3.1 Use case Self-Configuration
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | Supply an eNodeB with | | | | the latest applicable | | | | software in the course | | | | of self-configuration | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | FFS | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC network | | | | including its OSS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | IP network connectivity | | | | exists between the | | | | eNodeB and the OAM (sub) | | | | systems providing | | | | support for the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process and for | | | | automated software | | | | management. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The eNodeB is physically | | | | installed and physically | | | | connected to an IP | | | | network. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **The self-configuration | | | | process reaches the | | | | point where the software | | | | version for the new eNB | | | | was be determined and | | | | needs to be delivered to | | | | the eNB.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M\|O) | [SU1] The software is | | | | downloaded into the | | | | eNodeB. | | | | | | | | [SU2] The SW is | | | | installed on the eNB. | | | | | | | | [SU3] The SW is | | | | activated on the eNB. | | | | | | | | [at least one of SU3/4 | | | | shall be done] | | | | | | | | **[SU4]** **The | | | | inventory system in the | | | | OAM is informed that a | | | | new software for this | | | | eNodeB is in the | | | | field.** | | | | | | | | **[SU5]** **The | | | | network resource models | | | | visible over Itf-N are | | | | updated** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed | | | | or when an exception | | | | occurs.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | The software is ready | | | | for usage in the eNB. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 4.2.2.3.1 Use case Automated Software Update
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | Supply the latest | | | | applicable software to | | | | an eNB which is already | | | | running in the network. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | FFS | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC network | | | | including its OSS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | IP network connectivity | | | | exists between the | | | | eNodeB and the OAM (sub) | | | | systems providing | | | | support for the | | | | automated software | | | | update process. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | FFS | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **New software is | | | | provided for an eNB.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M\|O) | [SU1] Information | | | | about the availability | | | | of new software is | | | | provided to the OAM | | | | (sub)system. | | | | | | | | [SU2] The software is | | | | downloaded into the | | | | eNodeB. | | | | | | | | [SU3] The SW is | | | | installed on the eNB. | | | | | | | | [SU4] The SW is | | | | activated on the eNB. | | | | | | | | [at least one of SU3/4 | | | | shall be done] | | | | | | | | **[SU5]** **The | | | | inventory system in the | | | | OAM is informed that a | | | | new software for this | | | | eNodeB is in the | | | | field.** | | | | | | | | **[SU6]** **The | | | | network resource models | | | | visible over Itf-N are | | | | updated** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step n (M\|O) | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **Ends when all | | | | mandatory steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed | | | | or when an exception | | | | occurs.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | The eNodeB can use the | | | | new software. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
#