# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication Management; as identified below:
3GPP TS 32.581: \"Telecommunications management; Home Node B (HNB)\
Operations, Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P); Concepts\
and requirements for Type 1 interface HNB to HNB Management System (HMS)\".
3GPP TS 32.582: \"Telecommunications management; Home Node B (HNB)\
Operations, Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P);\ Information
model for Type 1 interface HNB to HNB Management System (HMS)\".
3GPP TS 32.583: \"Telecommunications management; Home Node B (HNB)\
Operations, Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P); Procedure\
flows for Type 1 interface HNB to HNB Management System (HMS)\".
3GPP TS 32.584: \"Telecommunications management; Home Node B (HNB)\
Operations, Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P); XML\
definitions for Type 1 interface HNB to HNB Management System (HMS)\".
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the procedure flows between HNB & HMS for the
OAM of HNB Management.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[5] Broadband Forum TR-069 CPE WAN Management Protocol v1.1, Version: Issue 1
Amendment 2, Version Date: December 2007
[6] 3GPP TR 25.820 3G Home NodeB Study Item Technical Report
[7] 3GPP TS 25.401 Radio Access Network UTRAN Overall Description
[8] 3GPP TR 32.821: \"Study of Self-Organizing Network (SON) related OAM for
Home NodeB\".
[9] 3GPP TS 25.467: \"UTRAN architecture for 3G Home NodeB, stage 2\".
> [10] 3GPP TS 32.582: \"Telecommunications management; Home Node B (HNB)
> Operations, Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P);
> Information model for Type 1 interface HNB to HNB Management System (HMS)\"
>
> [11] Broadband Forum TR-098 Internet Gateway Device Data Model for TR-069,
> Issue: 1 Ammendment 2, Issue Date: September 2008.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3] and TS 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3] and TS 21.905 [1], in that
order.
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
DNS Domain Name Server
FTP File Transfer Protocol
HMS Home NodeB Management System
HNB Home NodeB
HNB-GW Home NodeB Gateway
HTTP Hyper Text Transfer Protocol
HTTPS Hyper Text Transfer Protocol Secure
IP Internet Protocol
LAN Local Area Network
MNO Mobile Network Operator
RNC Radio Network Controller
RPC Remote Procedure Call
SeGW Security Gateway
SSL Secure Socket Layer
sFTP Secure File Transfer Protocol
TLS Transport Layer Security
URL Unified Resource Locator
# 4 Architecture for HNB Management
4.1 HNB OAM functional architecture
This section provides the HNB OAM functional architecture. We distinguish the
two following cases:
  * A HNB is connected to a BB device (typically a residential gateway providing connectivity via an access provider domain). The BB device provides routing, NAT and firewall functionality.
  * A BB device with an integrated HNB functionality
The HNB Management System (HMS) main tasks are to provision configuration data
on the HNB. It provides the following functional entities:
  * A file server
  * A TR-069 auto-configuration server (ACS)
However the file server may be used by other applications in the MNO domain.
Figure 4.1.1-1: Architecture for HNB Management
## 4.2 Functional Elements
### 4.2.1 HNB Management System (HMS)
The HMS is composed of a TR-069 manager and a file server. The TR069 manager
implements the Auto-Configuration Server function as defined in TR-069
standard and performs CM, FM and PM functionalities to the HNB. The file
server may be used for file upload or download, as instructed by TR-069
manager
#### 4.2.1.1 Initial HNB Management System (HMS)
The initial HMS may provide location verification of HNB and assigns
appropriate serving elements (Serving HMS, Security Gateway and HNB-GW).
#### 4.2.1.2 Serving HNB Management System (HMS)
Provides the following functionalities:
  * TR-069 Auto-configuration server
  * File server for file upload or download
  * Provisioning of configuration data to the HNB
  * Performance & Fault updates
  * Provides Serving SeGW discovery
### 4.2.2 Security Gateway (SeGW)
SeGW terminates Secure tunnelling for TR-069 as well as Iuh. It is used for
authentication of HNB & provides access to HMS and HNB-GW.
#### 4.2.2.1 Initial Security Gateway (SeGW)
The URL of the Initial SeGW may be factory programmed in the HNB so as to
allow initial establishment of an IPSec security association and communication
with the initial HMS.
#### 4.2.2.2 Serving Security Gateway (SeGW)
Terminates IPSec security association and implements a forwarding function to
allow forwarding IP packets upstream and downstream:
  * Downstream: packets are forwarded on appropriate IPSec tunnels towards the HNB based on their destination IP addresses
  * Upstream: forwarding IP traffic to the appropriate HNB-GW, HMS or other network elements based on destination IP addresses
### 4.2.3 HNB Gateway (HNB-GW)
Terminates Iuh from HNB. Appears as a RNC to the existing Core network using
existing Iu interface.
# 5 Procedure Flows
## 5.1 Discovery procedures (Mandatory)
When the HNB is initially powered up, it shall contact with HMS (initial) to
discover HNB-GW for the first step. HMS (initial) assigns the HNB
corresponding local access information of Security Gateway (serving), HMS
(serving) and optionally HNB-GW according to the HNB's location information.
The HNB-GW information shall be provided either by the HMS (initial) or the
HMS (serving). The HNB is pre-configured with the address information of HMS
(initial) and Security Gateway (initial), while HMS (serving) may be
physically different from HMS (initial).
There are two scenarios that need to be distinguished for the HNB-GW
discovery:
  * HMS (initial) is accessible via IPSec to the Security Gateway (initial) on the MNO Intranet.
  * HMS (initial) is accessible on the public Internet.
### 5.1.1 Discovery procedures via HMS (initial) accessible on the MNO
Intranet (Mandatory)
Figure 5.1.1-1: HNB-GW discovery via HMS (initial) accessible on the MNO
Intranet
1\. The HNB establishes a LAN connectivity to the Internet when it is
initially powered up.
> 2\. The HNB initiates a process to get IP address of Security Gateway
> (initial).
>
> 2.1 The HNB requests outer DNS (Domain Name Server) server for the address
> of Security Gateway (initial)'s URL.
>
> 2.2.DNS responds to the HNB with the IP addresses of Security Gateway
> (initial) URL.
>
> 2.3 The secure connection is established between the HNB and Security
> Gateway (initial).
>
> 2.4 The HNB requests DNS (inner) via IPSec tunnel secure connection for the
> address of HMS (initial) URL.
>
> 2.5 DNS (inner) responses to the HNB with the IP addresses of HMS (initial).
>
> 3\. The CWMP Session is established between the HNB and HMS (initial).
>
> 4\. The HNB sends to HMS (initial) an Inform Request containing location
> parameters and HNB Identity etc.
NOTE: For the definition of location parameters, see subclause 6.1.2 of [9].
> 5\. HMS (initial) returns an Inform response to accept the HNB location
> information.
>
> 6\. HMS (initial) then prepares for the local access information (including
> serving Security Gateway and serving HMS) and sets the values on the HNB
> using the SetParameterValues message. The Initial HMS may also optionally
> provide the HNB-GW information to the HNB.
>
> Note: If the Initial HMS does not provide HNB-GW then the serving HMS shall
> provide it during the HNB registration procedure.
>
> 7\. The HNB acknowledges the updation by returning a SetParameterValues
> Response message. If HMS (serving) is the same physical entity as HMS
> (initial), then go to step 10.
>
> 8\. The HNB releases the CWMP Session between the HNB and HMS (initial).
>
> 9\. The IP secure tunnel connection may be destroyed between the HNB and
> Security Gateway (initial).
>
> 10\. Next to execute HNB registration process.
### 5.1.2 Discovery procedures via HMS (initial) accessible on the public
Internet (Mandatory)
Figure 5.1.2-1: HNB-GW discovery via HMS (initial) accessible on the public
Internet
In this case the HNB is factory programmed with the initial TR-069 manager
URL. The MNO needs to publish the initial TR-069 manager domain name in the
outer DNS. At the initial switch-on, the HNB performs the following steps:
1\. The HNB establishes a LAN connectivity to the Internet when it is
initially powered up.
> 2\. The HNB resolves the host name of the HMS (initial) through going to the
> outer DNS
>
> 3\. TR-069 session establishment with the HMS (initial) that is accessible
> on the public Internet using TLS/SSL security.
>
> 4\. The HNB sends to HMS (initial) an Inform Request containing location
> parameters and HNB Identity etc.
NOTE: For the definition of location parameters, see subclause 6.1.2 of [9].5.
HMS (initial) returns an Inform response to accept the HNB location
information.
> 6\. HMS (initial) then prepares for the local access information (including
> serving Security Gateway and serving HMS) and sets the values on the HNB
> using the SetParameterValues message. The Initial HMS may also optionally
> provide the HNB-GW information to the HNB.
NOTE: If the Initial HMS does not provide HNB-GW then the serving HMS shall
provide it during the HNB registration procedure.
> 7\. The HNB acknowledges the update by returning a
> SetParameterValuesResponse message.
8\. The HNB releases the CWMP Session between the HNB and HMS (initial).
9\. Next to execute HNB registration process.
## 5.2 HNB Registration (Mandatory)
### 5.2.1 HNB registration Procedure (Mandatory)
HNB registration is a process to put the HNB into service when it is initially
powered up. The process contains two sub-processes of registration:
registration to HMS (serving) and registration to HNB-GW. In this section, the
HNB registration is mainly focused on registration to HMS (serving), and
registration to HNB-GW has a reference to the definition of TS 25.467 Section
5.2.2. HMS (serving) may be physically different from HMS (initial).
Figure 5.2.1-1: HNB Registration procedure flow
  1. The HNB has discovered the Serving SeGW and the Serving HMS and optionally HNB-GW (if the HMS (initial) provided the HNB-GW during the discovery procedures) and start the registration process. If the secure connection between the HNB and HMS (serving) has already been established, then go directly to step 4. In this case, HMS (serving) is the same physical entity as HMS (initial).
Note: if the HNB-GW information is not provided during the discovery procedure
flow then it shall be provided in step 5.3.
  1. If the local access information of Security Gateway (serving) obtained by the HNB is URL, then the HNB fetches the IP address of Security Gateway (serving) from public outer DNS. If the HMS connection is to be established outside the IPSEC tunnel and the HMS (serving) obtained by the HNB is URL, then the HNB also fetches the IP address of HMS (serving) from outer DNS
> 2.1 The HNB requests public outer DNS (Domain Name Server) server for the IP
> address of the Security Gateway (serving)'s URL and optionally the HMS
> (serving)'s URL.
>
> 2.2. Public Outer DNS responds to the Home NodeB with the IP addresses of
> the Security Gateway (serving) URL and optionally the IP address of HMS
> (serving) URL.
  1. A secure connection is established between the HNB and Security Gateway (serving).
  2. If the HMS connection is to be established inside the IPSEC tunnel and the If the HMS (serving) obtained by the HNB is URL, then the HNB fetches the IP address of HMS (serving) from DNS server (inner) via the secure connection.
> 4.1 The HNB requests DNS server (inner) via secure connection for the IP
> address of the HMS (serving) URL.
>
> 4.2. DNS (inner) responds to the Home NodeB with the IP addresses of HMS
> (serving) URL.
  1. Registration to HMS (serving)
> 5.1 The HNB sends to HMS (serving) an Inform Request message containing HNB
> general information as location parameters and HNB Identity, which has a
> reference to TS 25.467 Section 5.2.2 etc.
NOTE: TR-098 [11] defines a list of device information parameters under
InternetGatewayDevice.DeviceInfo such as, Manufacturer, ManufacturerOUI
(Organizationally unique identifier), ModelName, ProductClass, SerialNumber
and HardwareVersion,\ As per Table 36 of [5], HNB must send Manufacturer, OUI
(or ManufacturerOUI), ProductClass and SerialNumber in this Inform Request
message.
> 5.2 HMS (serving) returns an Inform Response message to accept the HNB
> general information.
NOTE: In addition to 5.1 and 5.2 being performed, HMS may issue a series of
TR‑069 get operations to obtain HNB parameter values to determine a suitable
configuration data.
> 5.3 The HMS (serving) provisions the HNB with configuration data optionally
> including HNB-GW (if the HNB-GW is not provided in the discovery procedures
> then it must be provided in step 5.3)
>
> 5.4 The HNB acknowledges the provisioning data by sending a
> SetParameterValue Response
>
> Optionally if CM is done by means of a file download then step 5.3 and step
> 5.4 are replaced by 5.3-bis and 5.4 bis:
>
> 5.3-bis HMS (Serving) may trigger by means of download RPC a CM file
> download providing CM data.
>
> 5.4-bis CM file download procedure optionally including the HNB-GW.
  1. If the HNB-GW obtained by the HNB is URL, then the HNB fetches the IP address of the HNB-GW from DNS server (inner) via the secure connection.
> 6.1 The HNB requests DNS server (inner) via secure connection for the IP
> address of the HNB-GW URL.
>
> 6.2. DNS (inner) responds to the Home NodeB with the IP addresses of HNB-GW
> URL.
7\. Registration to HNB-GW, which is already defined in TS 25.467 section
5.2.2.
### 5.2.2 HNB IPSec IP address change procedure (Mandatory)
If the inner IPsec tunnel IP address of the HNB changes **and HNB is connected
to HMS via IPSec Tunnel** then the HNB shall notify the TR-069 manager using
TR-069. To this end the HNB shall establish a connection to the Serving TR-069
manager and use the inform method to update the IPSec IP address. The
following flow diagram provides the details of this procedure flows.
Figure 5.2.2-1
> The basic steps for the IPSec IP address update are as follows:
A. Connection establishment triggered by the HNB to the TR-069 manager as soon
as possible following a change of the IPSec IP address (the procedure for
changing the IPSec IP address are outside the scope of this document).
B. The HNB uses the Inform request method of TR-069 to provide the TR-069
manager with the new IPSec IP address of the HNB in conjunction with the HNB
identity (manufacturer serial number)
C. The TR-069 manager acknowledges the receipt of the new IPSec IP address of
the HNB.
## 5.3 HNB Configuration Management (Mandatory)
This section specifies the procedure flows for HNB configuration management
using TR-069. As per TS 32.581, CM can be achieved by means of RPC as a
mandatory feature or by means of file download as an optional feature:
  * RPC set parameter values method: Following a registration of the HNB to the TR-069 manager, the TR-069 starts updating CM data on the HNB by means of the Set Parameter Value method of RPC in any combination or order. Subsequent updates of the CM data are done using the same procedure (for any combination of parameters).
  * File download: Following a registration of the HNB to the TR-069 manager, the TR-069 manager may trigger the HNB to start a file download of CM data. Subsequent to this initial phase the TR-069 may trigger at any point in time the HNB to start a file download to allow an update of the CM data.
### 5.3.1 HNB configuration management by means of file download (Optional)
Figure 5.3.1-1
Following the HNB registration procedure or subsequently when the TR-069
manager decides to update CM data (in this case the TR-069 manager needs to
issue a connection request to the HNB), the following sequence of exchange
takes place
A. The TR-069 manager instructs the HNB by means of an RPC method, namely file
download, to start a CM file download. The parameters for the file download
method are:
  * file type,
  * URL specifying the source file location
  * User name for the connection to the file server
  * Password associated to the user name
  * File size
B. The HNB start a file download using one of the available interfaces (FTP,
HTTP, etc) as specified in the URL
C. The file is download. The file format is specified in TS 32.584.
D. file download (and application) status: indicates success or failure of the
file download/installation. The success case means all downloaded parameters
are installed/configured in the HNB. The failure case means none of the
downloaded parameters is installed / configured in the HNB. Possible reasons
are: one or more downloaded parameters are considered illegal or invalid, the
downloaded file was corrupted.
The mechanisms by which the file is installed on the file server and the
corresponding URL is built and provided to the TR-069 manager are not
specified in this document.
### 5.3.2 HNB configuration management using RPC Set Parameter Value method
(Mandatory)
Figure 5.3.2-1
Following the HNB registration procedure or subsequently when the TR-069
manager decides to update CM data (in this case the TR-069 manager needs to
issue a connection request to the HNB), the following sequence of exchange
takes place
A. The TR-069 manager calls a SetParameterValue RPC on the HNB with the
following parameters:
  * Parameter List: the set of parameter names and corresponding values
B. indicates the status of the SetParameterValue RPC (success or failure)
## 5.4 HNB De-Provisioning (Mandatory)
The TR-069 manager must provide the ability for the operator to de-provision a
HNB (e.g. if the subscriber ends his subscription).
Subsequent requests from the HNB shall not lead to the registration process
described in clause 6.2 until the operator allows it.
De-provisioning may involve other operations which are not in the scope of
this document...
There are two possible ways to de-provision a HNB:
  * Use of FactoryReset RPC method (optional in TR-069)
  * SetParameterValue to reset all or a set of HNB parameters
If the FactoryReset RPC method is used, the HNB must initiate the factory
reset procedure only after successful completion of the session.
Figure 5.4-1: HNB de-provisioning using FactoryReset RPC method
Figure 8 provides the procedure flows for HNB deregistration using
SetParameterValue. The process consists in reinitializing all or a set of
parameters in the data model. The set of parameters to be reinitialized is
operator policy dependent.
Figure 5.4-2: HNB de-provisioning using SetParameterValue method
## 5.5 Alarm Reporting (Mandatory)
### 5.5.1 Alarm Reporting Mechanism Configuration (Mandatory)
This procedure allows TR-069 Manager to use SetParameterValues method to
determine by which alarm attributes of the HNB alarms shall be selected out
and reported to TR-069 Manager. The alarms shall be selected out by perceived
severity, alarm type, etc.
Figure 5.5.1-1: Alarm Reporting Mechanism Configuration
A TR-069 connection is requested to be established before the procedure.
  1. TR-069 Manager initiates alarm reporting mechanism configuration by using SetParameterValues. The parameters determined in SetParameterValues are referring to TS 32.582 [10].
  2. HNB responses to TR-069 Manager to confirm alarm reporting mechanism by SetParameterValues Response. If the response message returns an error code, then the procedure ends up with failure.
The detail procedure of SetParameterValues refer to TR-069 Amendment 2 [5]
A.3.2.1
### 5.5.2 Alarm Reporting Procedure (by RPC method) (Mandatory)
When the alarms occur, the HNB report alarms to the TR-069 Manager according
to the predefined alarm reporting mechanism.
Figure 5.2.2-1: Alarm Reporting Procedure Flow
A TR-069 connection is requested to be established before the procedure.
  1. HNB reports the alarm directly to TR-069 Manager by using Inform method when the raised alarm keeps in line with alarm reporting mechanism.
  2. When TR-069 Manager receives the alarm, it responses to HNB with InformResponse.
The detail procedure of Inform refer to TR-069 Amendment 2 [5] A.3.3.1
For Inform method to report the HNB alarms, active notifications shall be
reported to TR-069 Manager immediately, passive notifications shall be
reported in the next session established with TR-069 Manager.
## 5.6 PM File Upload (Mandatory)
### 5.6.1 PM File Upload Period Set Procedure (Mandatory)
In the PM file upload procedure flow, TR-069 Manager uses SetParameterValues
method to set the period a HNB for PM file uploading of HNB. The HNB then
uploads PM file to the File Server periodically. When the periodic upload
enable parameter is set to disabled, HNB shall not upload PM file any more.
Figure 5.6.1-1: PM File Upload Period Set procedure flow
A TR-069 connection is requested to be established before the procedure.
  1. TR-069 Manager initiates PM file upload period set procedure flow by using SetParameterValues to set the period of PM file uploading.
  2. HNB responses to TR-069 Manager to confirm the setting by SetParameterValuesRessponse. If the response message returns an error code, then the procedure ends up with failure.
The detail procedure of SetParameterValues refer to TR-069 Amendment 2 [5]
A.3.2.1
### 5.6.2 PM File Uploading Procedure (Mandatory)
Figure 5.6.2-1: PM file uploading procedure flow
  1. HNB uploads the PM file to File Server (by use of upload method) periodically according to period parameter. The upload method may be one selected from FTP/ FTPS/SFTP/HTTP/HTTPS. The location of File Server is determined by TR-069 Manager.
#