# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.601: \"Configuration Management (CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Requirements\"
**32.602: \"Configuration Management (CM); Basic CM Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\"**
32.603: \"Configuration Management (CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\"
32.607: \"Configuration Management (CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP); SOAP Solution Set (SS)\"
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and
they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations
Systems (OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimisation programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G
network, or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
resources/objects in one or several NEs.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines a component of an Integration Reference Point
(IRP) through which an \'IRPAgent\' (typically an Element Manager or Network
Element) can communicate basic Configuration Management related information to
one or several \'IRPManagers\' (typically Network Managers).
The function of this Basic CM IRP Information Service is to define an
interface for the retrieval and modification of Configuration Management
Information.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions, which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Information Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation X.710 (1997): \"Common Management Information
Service\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation X.721 (02/92): \"Information Technology - Open
Systems Interconnection -- Structure of Management Information: Definition of
Management Information\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation X.730 (01/92): \"Information Technology - Open
Systems Interconnection -- Systems Management: Object Management Function\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation X.733 (02/92): \"Information Technology - Open
Systems Interconnection - Alarm Reporting Function\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM Information Service (IS)\".
[12] ITU-T Recommendation X.720: \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Structure of management information: Management information
model\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply. For terms and definitions not found here, please refer to 3GPP TS
32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [6].
**Association** : In general it is used to model relationships between Managed
Objects. Associations can be implemented in several ways, such as:
(1) [name bindings]{.underline},
(2) [reference attributes]{.underline}, and
(3) [association objects]{.underline}.
This IRP stipulates that containment associations shall be expressed through
name bindings, but it does not stipulate the implementation for other types of
associations as a general rule. These are specified as separate entities in
the object models (UML diagrams). Currently however, all (non-containment)
associations are modelled by means of reference attributes of the
participating MOs.
**Managed Element (ME)** : An instance of the Managed Object Class
G3ManagedElement.
**Managed Object (MO)** : In the context of the present document, a Managed
Object (MO) is a software object that encapsulates the manageable
characteristics and behaviour of a particular Network Resource. The MO is
instance of a MO class defined in a MIM/NRM. An MO class has
[attributes]{.underline} that provide information used to characterize the
objects that belong to the class. Furthermore, an MO class can have
[operations]{.underline} that represent the behaviour relevant for that class.
An MO class may support [notifications]{.underline} that provide information
about an event occurrence within a network resource.
**Management Information Base (MIB)** : A MIB is an instance of an NRM and has
some values on the defined attributes and associations specific for that
instance. In the context of the present document, an MIB consists of:
(1) a Name space (describing the MO containment hierarchy in the MIB through
Distinguished Names),
(2) a number of Managed Objects with their attributes and
(3) a number of Associations between these MOs. Also note that TMN (ITU-T
Recommendation X.710 [7]) defines a concept of a [Management Information
Tree]{.underline} (also known as a Naming Tree) that corresponds to the name
space (containment hierarchy) portion of this MIB definition. Figure 3.1
depicts the relationships between a Name space and a number of participating
MOs (the shown association is of a non-containment type)
Figure 3.1: Relationships between a Name space and a number of participating
MOs
**Management Information Model (MIM)** : Also referred to as NRM -- see the
definition below.
**Name space** : A name space is a collection of names. The IRP name
convention (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [5]) restricts the name space to a hierarchical
containment structure, including its simplest form - the one-level, flat name
space.\ All Managed Objects in a MIB shall be included in the corresponding
name space and the MIB/name space shall only support a strict hierarchical
containment structure (with one root object). A Managed Object that contains
another is said to be the superior (parent); the contained Managed Object is
referred to as the subordinate (child). The parent of all MOs in a single name
space is called a Local Root. The ultimate parent of all MOs of all managed
systems is called the Global Root.
**Network Resource Model (NRM)** : A model representing the actual managed
telecommunications network resources that a System is providing through the
subject IRP. An NRM describes Managed Object Classes, their associations,
attributes and operations. The NRM is also referred to as \"MIM\" (see above),
which originates from the ITU-T TMN.
**Node B:** A logical node responsible for radio transmission/reception in one
or more cells to/from the User Equipment.\ It terminates the Iub interface
towards the RNC.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CMIS Common Management Information Service
CN Core Network
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
DN Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [5])
EM Element Manager
FM Fault Management
IDL Interface Definition Language
IRP Integration Reference Point
ITU-T International Telecommunication Union, Telecommunication Sector
ME Managed Element
MIB Management Information Base
MIM Management Information Model
MO Managed Object
MOC Managed Object Class
MOI Managed Object Instance
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NR Network Resource
NRM Network Resource Model
PM Performance Management
RDN Relative Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [5])
SNMP Simple Network Management Protocol
SS Solution Set
TMN Telecommunications Management Network
UML Unified Modelling Language
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
# 4 System overview
## 4.1 System Context
The general definition of the System Context for the present IRP is found in
3GPP TS 32.150 [14] subclause 4.7.
In addition, the set of related IRP(s) relevant to the present IRP is shown in
the two diagrams below.
Figure 4.1: System Context A
Figure 4.2: System Context B
## 4.2 Compliance rules
For general definitions of compliance rules related to qualifiers
(Mandatory/Optional/Conditional) for _operations_ , _notifications_ _and_
_parameters_ (of operations and notifications) please refer to 3GPP TS 32.150
[14].
An IRPAgent that incorporates vendor-specific extensions shall support normal
communication with a 3GPP SA5‑compliant IRPManager with respect to all
Mandatory and Optional managed object classes, attributes, associations,
operations, parameters and notifications without requiring the IRPManager to
have any knowledge of the extensions.
Given that
  * rules for vendor-specific extensions remain to be fully specified, > and
  * many scenarios under which IRPManager and IRPAgent interwork may > exist,
it is recognised that the IRPManager, even though it is not required to have
knowledge of vendor-specific extensions, may be required to be implemented
with an awareness that extensions can exist and behave accordingly.
# 5 Modelling approach
See 3GPP TS 32.150 [14].
# 6 Information Object Classes (IOCs)
## 6.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 32.622 [13], information object class, Top Top
32.622 [13], information object class, IRPAgent IRPAgent 32.622 [13],
information object class, GenericIRP GenericIRP 32.312 [4], information object
class, ManagedGenericIRP ManagedGenericIRP
* * *
## 6.2 Class diagram
This clause introduces the set of Information Object Classes (IOCs) that
encapsulate information within the IRPAgent. The intent is to identify the
information required for the BasicCmIRP Agent implementation of its operations
and notification emission. This sub-clause provides the overview of all
support object classes in UML. Subsequent sub-clauses provide more detailed
specification of various aspects of these support object classes.
### 6.2.1 Attributes and relationships
### 6.2.2 Inheritance
{width="4.834027777777778in" height="3.6125in"}
### 6.3 Information Object Class (IOC) Definitions
### 6.3.1 BasicCmIRP
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
BasicCmIRP is the representation of the basic configuration management
capabilities specified by this specification. This IOC inherits from
ManagedGenericIRP IOC specified in TS 32.312 [4].
### 6.3.2 ManagedEntity
#### 6.3.2.1 Definition
The IOC ManagedEntity represents the role that can be played by an instance of
an IOC defined in Network Resources Models, e.g. Generic Network Resource
Model, Core Network Resource Model, UTRAN Network Resource Model or GERAN
Network Resource Model. ManagedEntity is used in the specification of Basic CM
IRP operations to represent an instance of an IOC defined in these Network
Resource Models.
## 6.4 Information relationship definitions
### 6.4.1 containment (M)
#### 6.4.1.1 Definition
This represents the relationship containment as defined in ITU-T
Recommendation X.720 [12].
#### 6.4.1.2 Role
* * *
Name Definition container It represents the capability, for an instance of a
ManagedEntity, to contain other objects. content It represents the capability,
for an instance of a ManagedEntity, to be contained in another object.
* * *
#### 6.4.1.3 Constraint
* * *
Name Definition inv_noSelfContainment No instance of the IOC ManagedEntity can
play both roles container and content in the same instance of the relationship
containment.
* * *
# 7 Interface Definition
## 7.1 Class diagram
{width="6.172916666666667in" height="5.6618055555555555in"}
## 7.2 Generic rules
**Rule 1** : Each operation with at least one input parameter supports a pre-
condition valid_input_parameter which indicates that all input parameters
shall be valid with regards to their information type. Additionally, each such
operation supports an exception operation_failed_invalid_input_parameter which
is raised when pre-condition valid_input_parameter is false. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
**Rule 2** : Each operation with at least one optional input parameter
supports a set of pre-conditions supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx where
\"xxx\" is the name of the optional input parameter and the pre-condition
indicates that the operation supports the named optional input parameter.
Additionally, each such operation supports an exception
operation_failed_unsupported_optional_input_parameter_xxx which is raised when
(a) the pre-condition supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx is false and (b)
the named optional input parameter is carrying information. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
**Rule 3** : Each operation shall support a generic exception
operation_failed_internal_problem that is raised when an internal problem
occurs and that the operation cannot be completed. The exception has the same
entry and exit state.
## 7.3 Interface PassiveCmIRPOperations#1
### 7.3.1 getMoAttributes (M)
#### 7.3.1.1 Definition
This operation is invoked by IRPManager to request the retrieval of management
information (Managed Object attribute names and values) from the MIB
maintained by IRPAgent. One or several Managed Objects may be retrieved -
based on the containment hierarchy. This operation provides functionality that
is similar to that provided by the M-GET service defined by CMIS (ITU-T
Recommendation X.710 [7]).\ A Solution Set may choose to split this operation
in several operations (e.g. operations to get \"handlers\" or \"iterators\" to
Managed Objects fulfilling the scope/filter criteria and other operations to
retrieve attribute names/values from these \"handlers\").
#### 7.3.1.2 Input Parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | Type | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | inv | C | A unique | This parameter | | okeIdentifierIn | | identifier that | identifies the | | | | is Solution Set | current | | | | dependent. | invocation. | | | | | This parameter | | | | | is used in the | | | | | 'c | | | | | ancelOperation' | | | | | operation to | | | | | cancel an | | | | | on-going | | | | | 'g | | | | | etMOAttributes' | | | | | operation. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | bas | M | Di | The MO instance | | eObjectInstance | | stinguishedName | that is to be | | | | | used as the | | | | | starting point | | | | | for the | | | | | selection of | | | | | managed objects | | | | | to which the | | | | | filter (when | | | | | supplied) is to | | | | | be applied. | | | | | This is a full | | | | | Distinguished | | | | | Name according | | | | | to | | | | | 3GPP TS 32.300 | | | | | [5]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | scope | M | SEQUENCE \ | bas | | | | | eObjectInstance | | | | Note: theLevel | parameter. The | | | | contains valid | levels of | | | | information if | selection that | | | | B | may be | | | | ASE_NTH_LEVEL | performed are: | | | | or | | | | | BASE_SUBTREE | - BASE_ONLY: | | | | is used. | level | | | | | ignored, | | | | | just return | | | | | the base | | | | | object.; | | | | | | | | | | - BA | | | | | SE_NTH_LEVEL: | | | | | return all | | | | | subordinate | | | | | objects | | | | | that are on | | | | | \"level\" | | | | | distance | | | | | from the | | | | | base | | | | | object, | | | | | where 0 is | | | | | the base | | | | | object.; | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | BASE_SUBTREE: | | | | | return the | | | | | base object | | | | | and all of | | | | | its | | | | | | | | | | subordinates | | | | | down to and | | | | | including | | | | | the nth | | | | | level; | | | | | | | | | | - BASE_ALL: | | | | | level | | | | | ignored, | | | | | return the | | | | | base object | | | | | and all of | | | | | its | | | | | | | | | | subordinates. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | filter | M | See Comment | This parameter | | | | | defines a | | | | | filter test to | | | | | be applied to | | | | | the scoped | | | | | Managed | | | | | Object(s). If | | | | | the filter is | | | | | empty, all of | | | | | the managed | | | | | objects | | | | | included by the | | | | | scope are | | | | | selected. | | | | | | | | | | The actual | | | | | syntax and | | | | | capabilities of | | | | | the filter is | | | | | Solution Set | | | | | specific. | | | | | However, each | | | | | Solution Set | | | | | should support | | | | | a filter | | | | | consisting of | | | | | one or several | | | | | assertions that | | | | | may be grouped | | | | | using the | | | | | logical | | | | | operators AND, | | | | | OR and NOT. | | | | | Each assertion | | | | | is a logical | | | | | expression of | | | | | attribute | | | | | existence, | | | | | attribute value | | | | | comparison | | | | | (\"equal to X, | | | | | less than Y\" | | | | | etc.) and MO | | | | | Class. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | attributeListIn | M | LIST OF | This parameter | | | | AttributeName | identifies the | | | | | attributes to | | | | | be returned by | | | | | this operation. | | | | | In R99, only | | | | | the semantics | | | | | \"Return all | | | | | attributes\" | | | | | shall be | | | | | supported. An | | | | | empty list | | | | | means \"Return | | | | | all | | | | | attributes\". | | | | | For future | | | | | releases the | | | | | possibility to | | | | | specify a list | | | | | of attributes | | | | | is expected. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 7.3.1.3 Output Parameters
* * *
Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment invokeIdentifierOut M (Note)
invokeIdentifierIn from the input parameters of this operation This parameter
identifies the current invocation in both IRPManager and IRPAgent. This
parameter can be used together with the 'cancelOperation' operation to cancel
an on-going 'getMOAttributes' operation. managedObjectClass M
ManagedEntity.objectClass For each returned MO: The class of the MO.
managedObjectInstance M ManagedEntity.distinguishedName For each returned MO:
The name of the MO. This is a full Distinguished Name according to 3GPP TS
32.300 [5]. attributeListOut M LIST OF SEQUENCE\ For each
returned MO: A list of name/value pairs for MO. status M ENUM
(OperationSucceeded, OperationFailed) An operation may fail because of a
specified or unspecified reason. NOTE: This parameter is meaningful only if
the IRPAgent supports the cancelOperation.
* * *
#### 7.3.1.4 Pre-condition
baseObjectExists
* * *
Assertion Name Definition baseObjectExists The ManagedEntity instance
specified by the baseObjectInstance parameter exists.
* * *
#### 7.3.1.5 Post-condition
None specific
#### 7.3.1.6 Exceptions
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | operationFailed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | duplicateInvocation | **Condition:** The invoke identifier | | | specified was allocated to another operation | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | | | | | | **Note:** This exception is conditional and | | | applies only to Solution Sets where it is | | | meaningful. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | resourceLimitation | **Condition:** Operation not performed due | | | to resource limitation. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | operationCancelled | **Condition:** Operation cancelled by | | | cancelOperation operation. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | complexityLimitation | **Condition:** Operation not performed | | | because a parameter was too complex. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
## 7.4 Interface PassiveCmIRPOperations#2
### 7.4.1 getContainment (O)
#### 7.4.1.1 Definition
This (optional) operation is only intended for retrieval of the containment
relations from the MIB.
#### 7.4.1.2 Input Parameters
* * *
Name Qualifier Information Type Comment
invokeIdentifierIn C A unique identifier that is Solution Set dependent. This
parameter identifies the current invocation in both IRPManager and IRPAgent.
This parameter can be used together with the 'cancelOperation' operation to
cancel an on-going 'getContainment' operation.
baseObject\ M DistinguishedName The MO instance that is to be used as the
starting point for the selection of managed objects to which the filter (when
supplied) is to be applied. This is a full Distinguished Name according to
3GPP TS 32.300 [5]. Instance
scope O See corresponding parameter in getMOAttributes. See corresponding
parameter in getMOAttributes.
* * *
#### 7.4.1.3 Output Parameters
The output parameter 'containment' of the operation shall contain a list of
all Managed Object instances in the MIB maintained by IRPAgent (or a subset
starting from a given base object) including containment information (naming
tree).
The structure and format of the output parameter 'containment' are Solution
Set dependent.
* * *
Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment containment M LIST OF
ManagedEntity.distinquishedName A list of DN of all Managed Object instances
that satisfy the scope. invokeIdentifierOut M (Note) invokeIdentifierIn from
the input parameters of this operation This parameter identifies the current
invocation. . This parameter is used in 'cancelOperation' operation to cancel
an on-going 'getContainment' operation. status M ENUM (OperationSucceeded,
OperationFailed) An operation may fail because of a specified or unspecified
reason. NOTE: This parameter is meaningful only if the IRPAgent supports the
cancelOperation.
* * *
#### 7.4.1.4 Pre-condition
baseObjectExists
* * *
Assertion Name Definition baseObjectExists The ManagedEntity instance
specified by the baseObjectInstance parameter exists.
* * *
#### 7.4.1.5 Post-condition
None specific
#### 7.4.1.6 Exceptions
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | operationFailed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | duplicateInvocation | **Condition:** The invoke identifier | | | specified was allocated to another operation | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | | | | | | **Note:** This exception is conditional and | | | applies only to Solution Sets where it is | | | meaningful. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | resourceLimitation | **Condition:** Operation not performed due | | | to resource limitation. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | operationCancelled | **Condition:** Operation cancelled by | | | cancelOperation operation. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | complexityLimitation | **Condition:** Operation not performed | | | because a parameter was too complex. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
## 7.5 Interface BasicCmIRPOperations
### 7.5.1 cancelOperation (O)
#### 7.5.1.1 Definition
IRPManager invokes this operation to cancel an on-going Basic CM IRP operation
it issued before. Presently the Basic CM IRP operations that can be cancelled
by invoking 'cancelOperation' are 'getMOAttributes' and 'getContainment'.
#### 7.5.1.2 Input Parameters
* * *
Name Qualifier Information Type Comment invokeIdentifierIn M A unique
identifier that is Solution Set dependent. This parameter identifies an on-
going Basic CM IRP operation to be cancelled.
* * *
#### 7.5.1.3 Output Parameters
* * *
Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment status M ENUM (OperationSucceeded,
OperationFailed) An operation may fail because of a specified or unspecified
reason.
* * *
#### 7.5.1.4 Pre-condition
operationExits
* * *
Assertion Name Definition operationExits The operation identified by the
invokeIdentifierIn is ongoing.
* * *
#### 7.5.1.5 Post-condition
operationCancelled
* * *
Assertion Name Definition operationCancelled The operation identified by the
invokeIdentifierIn is cancelled.
* * *
#### 7.5.1.6 Exceptions
+-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | operationFailed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+
## 7.6 Interface ActiveCmIRPOperations
### 7.6.1 createMO (O)
#### 7.6.1.1 Definition
This operation is invoked by IRPManager to request the IRPAgent to create a
Managed Object instance in the MIB maintained by the IRPAgent. This operation
will create only one Managed Object instance. This operation provides
functionality that is similar to that provided by the M-CREATE service defined
by CMIS (ITU-T Recommendation X.710 [7]).
#### 7.6.1.2 Input Parameters
* * *
Name Qualifier Information Type Comment managedObjectClass M
ObjectClassIdentifier This parameter specifies the class of the new managed
object instance. managedObjectInstance M DistinguishedName This parameter
specifies the instance of the managed object that is to be created and
registered. This is a full Distinguished Name according to 3GPP TS 32.300 [5].
referenceObjectInstance O Solution Set dependant This parameter may have a
null value. When this parameter is supplied, it must specify an existing
instance of a managed object, called the reference object, of the same class
as the new object to be created. Attribute values associated with the
reference object instance become the default values for those not specified by
the attributeListIn parameter. attributeListIn M LIST OF SEQUENCE\ This parameter may have a null value. When this
parameter is supplied, it contains a list of name/value pairs specifying
attribute identifiers and their values to be assigned to the new managed
object. These values override the values for the corresponding attributes
derived from either the reference object (if the referenceObjectInstance
parameter is supplied) or the default value set specified in the definition of
the managed object's class.
* * *
#### 7.6.1.3 Output Parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | a | M | LIST OF | This list of | | ttributeListOut | | SEQUENCE\ | to each. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM | An operation | | | | (Oper | may fail | | | | ationSucceeded, | because of a | | | | O | specified or | | | | perationFailed) | unspecified | | | | | reason. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 7.6.1.4 Pre-condition
managedEntityDoesNotExist
* * *
Assertion Name Definition managedEntityDoesNotExist A ManagedEntity instance
with the same Distinguished Name as the object specified for creation does not
exist.
* * *
#### 7.6.1.5 Post-condition
managedEntityCreated AND objectCreationNotificationEmitted
* * *
Assertion Name Definition managedEntityCreated The ManagedEntity instance of
the specified object class has been created with the specified Distinquished
Name. objectCreationNotificationEmitted An object creation notification (as
defined in TS 32.662 [11]) is emitted for the created object, if notifiable.
Notifiable here means that the notification is supported and not suppressed.
\"Emitted\" here corresponds to the association stereotyped as \> in
3GPP TS 32.662 [11].
* * *
#### 7.6.1.6 Exceptions
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | operationFailed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is | | | false or post-condition is | | | false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The | | | output parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | obj | **Condition:** The object class | | ectClassSpecificationMissmatched | named by ObjectClassIdentifier | | | input parameter does not match | | | the object class of the managed | | | object specified by a non-null | | | referenceObjectInstance input | | | parameter. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The | | | output parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | InvalidObjectInstance | **Condition:** The object | | | instance name specified implied | | | a violation of the naming rules; | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The | | | output parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | createNotAllowed | **Condition:** The object to be | | | created may not be created over | | | the Itf-N. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The | | | output parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | noSuch­ObjectClass | **Condition:** The class of the | | | specified managed object is not | | | recognized. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The | | | output parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | classInstanceConflict | **Condition:** The specified | | | managed object instance may not | | | be created as member of the | | | specified class. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The | | | output parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | noSuchAttribute | **Condition:** A specified | | | attribute is not recognized or | | | is not valid for specified | | | object class. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The | | | output parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | invalidAttributeValue | **Condition:** Value specified | | | for an attribute is not valid | | | for that attribute. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The | | | output parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | missingAttributeValue | **Condition:** One or more | | | required attribute values were | | | not supplied and default values | | | are not available. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The | | | output parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | parentObjectDoesNotExist | **Condition:** The parent MO | | | instance of the ManagedEntity | | | specified to be created does not | | | **exist**. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The | | | output parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 7.6.2 deleteMO (O)
#### 7.6.2.1 Definition
This operation is invoked by IRPManager to request the deletion of one or more
Managed Object instances from the MIB maintained by IRPAgent. This operation
provides functionality that is similar to that provided by the M-DELETE
service defined by CMIS (ITU-T Recommendation X.710 [7]).
#### 7.6.2.2 Input Parameters
* * *
Name Qualifier Information Type Comment baseObjectInstance M DistinguishedName
The MO instance that is to be used as the starting point for the selection of
managed objects to which the filter (when supplied) is to be applied. This is
a full Distinguished Name according to 3GPP TS 32.300 [5]. scope M See
corresponding parameter in getMOAttributes. See corresponding parameter in
getMOAttributes. filter M See comment See corresponding parameter in
getMOAttributes.
* * *
#### 7.6.2.3 Output Parameters
* * *
Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment deletionList M LIST OF SEQUENCE\ If the base object
alone is specified, then this parameter is optional; otherwise it contains a
list of managedObjectInstance/managedObjectClass pairs identifying the managed
objects deleted. status M ENUM (OperationSucceeded, OperationFailed,
OperationPartiallySucceeded) An operation may fail because of a specified or
unspecified reason. The operation is partially successful if some, but not
all, objects selected to be deleted are actually deleted.
* * *
In lieu of a synchronization parameter, best effort synchronization will
apply; that is, all managed objects selected for this operation will perform
the operation if possible regardless of whether some managed objects fail to
perform it.
#### 7.6.2.4 Pre-condition
baseObjectExists AND allChildrenOfObjectsToBeDeletedSpecifiedForDeletion
* * *
Assertion Name Definition baseObjectExists The ManagedEntity instance
specified by the baseObjectInstance parameter exists.
allChildrenOfObjectsToBeDeletedSpecifiedForDeletion For any ManagedEntity
instance specified for deletion, all of its dependant ManagedEntity instances
must be specified for deletion.
* * *
#### 7.6.2.5 Post-condition
(selectedObjectsDeleted OR someSelectedObjectsDeleted) AND
objectDeletionNotificationEmitted
* * *
Assertion Name Definition selectedObjectsDeleted All of the ManagedEntity
instances selected for deletion are deleted. someSelectedObjectsDeleted Some
but not all of the selected ManagedEntity instances were deleted and for any
of the ManagedEntity instances deleted all of the child ManagedEntity
instances of that ManagedEntity instance is deleted.
objectDeletionNotificationEmitted An object deletion notification (as defined
in TS 32.662 [11]) is emitted for each notifiable deleted object. Notifiable
here means that the notification is supported and not suppressed. \"Emitted\"
here corresponds to the association stereotyped as \> in 3GPP TS
32.662 [11]. An object deletion notification of a managed object containing a
sub-tree implies deletion of all managed objects in the sub-tree. IRPAgent
should make the best effort to reduce the number of object deletion
notifications, for example by sending only one notification for the sub-tree
root object in the event of a successful deletion of an entire sub-tree.
* * *
#### 7.6.2.6 Exceptions
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | operationFailed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | invalidObjectInstance | **Condition:** The object instance name | | | specified implied a violation of the naming | | | rules; | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | deleteNotAllowed | **Condition:** Some of the object instances | | | to be deleted may not be deleted over the | | | Itf-N. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | resourceLimitation | **Condition:** Operation not performed due | | | to resource limitation. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | complexityLimitation | **Condition:** Operation not performed | | | because a parameter was too complex. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
### 7.6.3 setMOAttributes (O)
#### 7.6.3.1 Definition
This operation is invoked by IRPManager to request the modification of
management information (Managed Object attribute values) in the MIB maintained
by IRPAgent. Attributes of one or several Managed Objects may be modified -
based on the containment hierarchy. This operation provides functionality that
is similar to that provided by the M-SET service defined by CMIS (ITU-T
Recommendation X.710 [7]).
#### 7.6.3.2 Input Parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | Type | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | bas | M | Di | The MO instance | | eObjectInstance | | stinguishedName | that is to be | | | | | used as the | | | | | starting point | | | | | for the | | | | | selection of | | | | | managed objects | | | | | to which the | | | | | filter (when | | | | | supplied) is to | | | | | be applied. | | | | | This is a full | | | | | Distinguished | | | | | Name according | | | | | to | | | | | 3GPP TS 32.300 | | | | | [5]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | scope | M | See | See | | | | corresponding | corresponding | | | | parameter in | parameter in | | | | g | g | | | | etMOAttributes. | etMOAttributes. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | filter | M | See comment | See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | parameter in | | | | | g | | | | | etMOAttributes. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | m | M | LIST OF | This parameter | | odificationList | | SEQUENCE | contains a set | | | | \ | identifier: the | | | | | identifier of | | | | See Comment for | the attribute | | | | when attribute | whose value(s) | | | | values are | is(are) to be | | | | require and | modified. | | | | when they are | | | | | optional. | 2. attribute | | | | | value: the | | | | | value(s) to be | | | | | used in the | | | | | modification of | | | | | the attribute. | | | | | The use of this | | | | | parameter is | | | | | defined by the | | | | | modify | | | | | operator. This | | | | | parameter is | | | | | optional when | | | | | the set to | | | | | default modify | | | | | operator is | | | | | specified and | | | | | if supplied, | | | | | shall be | | | | | ignored. | | | | | | | | | | 3. modify | | | | | operator: the | | | | | way in which | | | | | the attribute | | | | | values(s) (if | | | | | supplied) | | | | | is(are) to be | | | | | applied to the | | | | | attribute. The | | | | | possible | | | | | operators are: | | | | | | | | | | replace: the | | | | | attribute | | | | | value(s) | | | | | specified shall | | | | | be used to | | | | | replace the | | | | | current | | | | | values(s) of | | | | | the attribute; | | | | | | | | | | add values: the | | | | | attribute | | | | | values(s) | | | | | specified shall | | | | | be added to the | | | | | current | | | | | value(s) of the | | | | | of the | | | | | attribute. This | | | | | operator shall | | | | | only be applied | | | | | to a set-valued | | | | | attribute and | | | | | shall perform a | | | | | set union (in | | | | | the | | | | | mathematical | | | | | sense) between | | | | | the current | | | | | values(s) of | | | | | the attribute | | | | | and the | | | | | attribute | | | | | value(s) | | | | | specified. | | | | | Value(s) | | | | | specified in | | | | | the attribute | | | | | value parameter | | | | | which is(are) | | | | | already in the | | | | | current values | | | | | of the | | | | | attribute shall | | | | | not cause an | | | | | error to be | | | | | returned. | | | | | | | | | | remove values: | | | | | the attribute | | | | | value(s) | | | | | specified shall | | | | | be removed from | | | | | the current | | | | | values(s) of | | | | | the attribute. | | | | | This operator | | | | | shall only be | | | | | applied to a | | | | | set-valued | | | | | attribute and | | | | | shall perform a | | | | | set difference | | | | | (in the | | | | | mathematical | | | | | sense) between | | | | | the current | | | | | value(s) of the | | | | | attribute and | | | | | the attribute | | | | | values(s) | | | | | specified. | | | | | Value(s) | | | | | specified in | | | | | the attribute | | | | | value parameter | | | | | which is(are) | | | | | not in the | | | | | current | | | | | value(s) of the | | | | | attribute shall | | | | | not cause an | | | | | error to be | | | | | returned; | | | | | | | | | | set to default: | | | | | when this | | | | | operator is | | | | | applied to a | | | | | single-valued | | | | | attribute, the | | | | | value of the | | | | | attribute shall | | | | | be set to its | | | | | default value. | | | | | When this | | | | | operator is | | | | | applied to a | | | | | set--valued | | | | | attribute, the | | | | | value(s) of the | | | | | attribute shall | | | | | be set to their | | | | | default | | | | | value(s) and | | | | | only as many | | | | | values as | | | | | defined by the | | | | | default shall | | | | | be assigned. If | | | | | there is no | | | | | default value | | | | | defined, an | | | | | error shall be | | | | | returned. | | | | | | | | | | Note: Set is | | | | | used here in | | | | | the | | | | | mathematical | | | | | sense so that a | | | | | set-valued | | | | | attribute is an | | | | | unordered set | | | | | of unique | | | | | values. | | | | | | | | | | The modify | | | | | operator is | | | | | optional, and | | | | | if it is not | | | | | specified, the | | | | | replace | | | | | operator shall | | | | | be assumed. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | m | | | | | odificationList | | | | | parameter | | | | | contains a | | | | | single set of | | | | | attribute | | | | | modification | | | | | specifications | | | | | and this same | | | | | set is applied | | | | | to each managed | | | | | object instance | | | | | to be modified. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 7.6.3.3 Output Parameters
* * *
Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment modificationListOut M LIST OF
SEQUENCE\> This parameter will provide for each managed
object instance the full Distinguished Name of the managed object instance,
the managedObjectClass, and a list of name/value pairs with the values of all
the attributes of the modified managed object instance after modification. The
form of this information is solution set dependant and may be provided in one
or many data structures. status M ENUM (OperationSucceeded, OperationFailed,
OperationPartiallySucceeded) An operation may fail because of a specified or
unspecified reason and no attributes have been updated. The operation is only
successful if all specified attributes of all selected objects are actually
modified. Otherwise, the operation is partially successful.
* * *
In lieu of a synchronization parameter, best effort synchronization will
apply; that is, all managed objects selected for this operation will perform
the operation if possible regardless of whether some managed objects fail to
perform it.
#### 7.6.3.4 Pre-condition
baseObjectExists
* * *
Assertion Name Definition baseObjectExists The ManagedEntity instance
specified by the baseObjectInstance parameter exists.
* * *
#### 7.6.3.5 Post-condition
(selectedObjectsModified OR someSelectedObjectsModified) AND
attributeValueChangeNotificationEmitted
* * *
Assertion Name Definition selectedObjectsModified All of the attributes of all
of the ManagedEntity instances selected for modification are modified as
specified. someSelectedObjectsModified Some attributes of some of the selected
ManagedEntity instances were modified but not all attributes of all selected
ManagedEntity instances. attributeValueChangeNotificationEmitted A
notifyAttributeValueChange notification (as defined in TS 32.662 [11]) is
emitted for the notifiable attributes of each modified object instance.
Notifiable here means that the notification is supported and not suppressed.
\"Emitted\" here corresponds to the association stereotyped as \> in
3GPP TS 32.662 [11].
* * *
#### 7.6.3.6 Exceptions
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | operationFailed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | modifyNotAllowed | **Condition:** The object to be modified | | | may not be modified over the Itf-N. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | noSuchAttribute | **Condition:** A specified attribute is not | | | recognized or is not valid for specified | | | object class. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | invalidAttributeValue | **Condition:** Value specified for an | | | attribute is not valid for that attribute. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | missingAttributeValue | **Condition:** One or more required | | | attribute values were not supplied and | | | default values are not available. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | resourceLimitation | **Condition:** Operation not performed due | | | to resource limitation. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | complexityLimitation | **Condition:** Operation not performed | | | because a parameter was too complex. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
#